 ANNUAL REPORT 2013
FOCUSED  
ON DELIVERY
ANGLO AMERICAN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FOCUSED ON DELIVERY 
In a world where people want to build a better life for 
themselves and their families, but where resources are 
limited, Anglo American seeks to generate sustainable 
value from a country’s mineral resources for the  
benefit of its people. 
We will deliver an attractive and differentiated value 
proposition to our shareholders, business partners  
and other stakeholders by having the right assets and 
technical expertise, the right people working with our 
partners, and a commitment to responsible mining that 
will support us in delivering the products that make  
our world work. 
We are focused on delivering our targeted returns to 
shareholders while creating value for all our partners 
and stakeholders.
Other sources  
of information
You can find this report  
and additional information 
about Anglo American on 
our corporate website. 
Although we have  
chosen not to produce  
an ‘integrated report’,  
we have included a 
comprehensive overview  
of our non-financial 
performance in this report. 
More detailed information 
on our sustainability 
performance is provided  
in our Sustainable 
Development Report.  
This can be found on  
our corporate website.
For more information, visit 
www.angloamerican.com/ 
reportingcentre FINANCIAL  
PERFORMANCE
UNDERLYING 
OPERATING PROFIT
(2012: $6.3 bn)
$ 6. 6 b n
UNDERLYING EARNINGS
(2012: $2.9 bn)
$ 2.7 b n
UNDERLYING EARNINGS 
PER SHARE
(2012: $2.28)
$2.09
LOSS ATTRIBUTABLE TO 
EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS
(2012: $(1.5) bn)
$(1.0)  bn
Underlying operating profit is presented before special items and remeasurements 
and includes the Group’s attributable associates’ and joint ventures’ operating profit 
before special items and remeasurements, unless otherwise stated. See notes 3 
and 5 to the financial statements for underlying operating profit. For definition of 
special items and remeasurements, see note 6 to the financial statements. See note 
9 to the financial statements for the basis of calculation of underlying earnings.
‘Tonnes’ are metric tons, ‘Mt’ denotes million tonnes, ‘kt’ denotes thousand  
tonnes and ‘koz’ denotes thousand ounces;‘$’ and ‘dollars’ denote US dollars  
and ‘cents’ denotes US cents.
Net debt includes related hedges and net cash in disposal groups.  
See note 24 to the financial statements.
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new 
accounting pronouncements. See note 2 to the financial statements for details.
Throughout the Strategic report, attributable ROCE, shown in terms of historical 
performance, reflects the realised prices and foreign exchange during the period, 
and in line with commitments made as part of Driving Value. For more detail on this 
calculation and its methodology, please refer to page 250.
Strategic report
02 Chairman’s statement
04 At a glance
06 Marketplace
08 Chief Executive’s statement
 12 Why mining matters
 14 Our strategy
 16  Our business model
 1 8 Key performance indicators
20 Strategic elements
46 Risk
54 Iron Ore and Manganese
60 Metallurgical Coal
64 Thermal Coal
68 Copper
72 Nickel
76 Niobium and Phosphates
80 Platinum
86 Diamonds
90 Other Mining and Industrial
Governance
92 Chairman’s introduction
94 Leadership
 103 Effectiveness
 105 Engagement
 107  Safety and Sustainable  
Development Committee
 108 Nomination Committee
 109 Audit Committee
 111 Audit Committee report
 11 7 Remuneration Committee
 11 8 Directors’ remuneration report
 144 Directors’ report
 150 Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
 150 Responsibility statement
Financial statements
 152 Independent auditor’s report
 154 Principal statements
 158 Notes to the financial statements
212  Financial statements of the  
parent company
215 Summary by business operation
216 Key financial data
217 Reconciliation of reported earnings
218 Exchange rates and commodity prices
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
219 Introduction
220 Iron Ore
223 Manganese
224 Coal 
232 Copper
237 Nickel
238 Niobium
240 Phosphates
241 Platinum Group Metals
244 Diamonds
Other information
250 Attributable ROCE definition
251 Production statistics
254 Quarterly production statistics
255 Non-financial data
256 The business – an overview
258 Shareholder information
IBC Other Anglo American publications
    Interim
    Final
2009
201 1
2010
2012
2013
40
0
46
53
53
0
28
25
32
32
2009
2011
2010
2012
2013
11.3
1.4
7.4
8.5
10.7
Cover Image 
Laboratory technician  
David Tlaka (back cover); 
maintenance planner 
Pieter Grobler and shift 
leader Silas Mongwe at 
the Eastern Bushveld 
Research Laboratory 
control room at Anglo 
American Platinum’s  
Polokwane smelter in 
South Africa.
Opposite 
At Polokwane, 
concentrate is smelted  
to produce furnace matte 
before being sent for 
further processing at  
the Waterval Smelter  
in Rustenburg.
2009
2011
2010
2012
2013
4.8
5.8
5.0
6.0
6.3
01 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 1
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS CONTENTS CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
INDUSTRY BACKDROP 
In 2013, the world economy experienced a flat 
growth rate of 3%, the same as in 2012. This  
led to weak activity in the first six months of  
the year in Western Europe, China and other 
emerging economies. 
SAFETY
I have long admired the commitment of our people at  
Anglo American and the considerable changes they have 
implemented to help us achieve ‘zero harm’ across the entire 
organisation. I am therefore personally saddened when I am 
told of our people losing their lives at our operations. In 2013, 
14 people lost their lives on company business, four of 
whom died following a major geological event at the 
now-divested Amapá iron ore operation in Brazil, with a 
further two still missing. With a rigorous eye on the progress 
to zero harm, a further decline in lost-time injuries was 
achieved, while the great majority of our sites remain fatality-
free. I speak for the whole Board in expressing our sympathy 
for those who have been bereaved and I wish to reassure all 
our stakeholders that we will strive unremittingly to achieve 
our goal of an incident-free workplace.
CAPITAL PROJECTS
As we enter 2014, the Minas-Rio iron ore project is now  
84% complete and, while risk remains in such a vast project, 
I am pleased to report that it remains on target for first ore  
on ship at the end of 2014, and within the expected capital 
budget. Its completion will ease our capital commitments 
from 2015 onwards and should also enhance our free cash 
flow. The Board continues to exercise discipline and scrutiny 
of costs around capital expenditures – be it ‘stay in business’ 
or ‘expansionary’.
DIVIDEND
The focus on increasing free cash flow from operational 
efficiency and cash-saving initiatives is a measure of  
the Board’s determination to protect our dividend to 
shareholders until higher sustainable free cash flow  
is generated.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 53 cents 
per share, to maintain a total dividend of 85 cents for the 
year. That we were able to do so during a period when 
substantial expenditure was being incurred on major capital 
projects underlines our confidence in the business and its 
ability to keep returns to our shareholders competitive with 
those of our peer group.
A COMPANY THAT LIVES OUT ITS VALUES
One of the things that attracted me to Anglo American  
some 4½ years ago was that it was known as a company  
that has always had a social conscience, which endeavours 
to live out its values. Within the ranks of natural resource 
companies, Anglo American has invariably been at the 
forefront in engaging with stakeholders and with civil society 
more broadly. 
The global mining industry encountered considerable 
challenges, and for much of the year it experienced 
lacklustre demand and falling prices for most commodities 
– exacerbated by persistent above-inflation cost pressures, 
labour disputes and low productivity. 
ANGLO AMERICAN’S STRATEGIC RESPONSE
Against this backdrop, Anglo American faced its share of 
operational challenges as we continued to restructure our 
Platinum business, pursue the turnarounds of copper in 
Chile, the Sishen iron ore mine in South Africa and the 
flagship Jwaneng diamond mine in Botswana. A recovery 
plan was also put in place at Nickel following the need to 
rebuild the two new furnaces at Barro Alto.
April saw a smooth and professional transition from 
Cynthia Carroll to Mark Cutifani as our new chief executive. 
Since that time, Mark and his new top management team 
have worked closely with our Board in finalising an agreed 
Group strategy and clear targets – Driving Value. At its  
heart we aim to shift the Group to achieve at least a 15% 
attributable return on capital employed by 2016, and place  
it on a sounder footing to deliver sustainable returns into  
the future. It will involve cost reductions on a range of fronts, 
controlled expenditure on our pipeline of new projects, 
withdrawing from some longer-term future projects (as we 
have done with Pebble in Alaska), and being ready to exit 
those businesses that cannot achieve the target returns. 
Mark, as the industry recognises, is a ‘miner’s miner’ who 
brings his decades-long experience of mining at the sharp 
end with a relentless focus on improving the operational 
performance of all our assets, while also redesigning the 
organisation to be more effective and efficient.
The Board is heartened by the improving trend in 
operational performance during the second half, which  
has contributed to the delivery of a creditable financial 
performance, ahead of budget.
Sir John Parker
The Board has 
recommended 
a final dividend 
of 53 cents  
per share, to 
maintain a 
dividend of  
85 cents for  
the year.
02 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Our chief executive, Mark Cutifani, is totally committed  
to living out Anglo American’s social values. He has  
recently played a major role in engaging with the Catholic 
Church and the Kellogg Innovation Network to look at how 
mining companies, which can be key development players, 
can come together with their stakeholders in focusing  
on the shared purpose of creating sustainable value  
long after a mine’s gates close for the last time. I am also  
proud that Anglo American’s sustainable development 
performance has been recognised by both the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index 2013 and the Carbon Disclosure 
Project’s Global 500 Climate Performance Leadership 
Index. Furthermore, our dedicated corporate social 
investment (CSI) arm in South Africa, the Chairman’s Fund, 
was recognised by Trialogue, a knowledge leader in the CSI 
field, for the ninth consecutive time, for its excellence in 
being a true partner in development.
BOARD RENEWAL
I regard it as a prime responsibility of a chairman to be 
looking continually to refresh and strengthen the Board  
of directors. During the period from August 2009, when  
I became chairman, and the AGM in April 2014, there will 
have been a complete change in non-executive directors.  
I consider our current Board to have the right mix of talent, 
with the appropriate bandwidth of skills and experience.  
This necessarily extends beyond mining experience on  
the Board and in our Group Management Committee to 
encompass such fields as major project management, 
engineering, finance, healthcare, corporate leadership  
and global business experience.
As well as the change of chief executive leadership, several 
changes took place within the ranks of the non-executive 
directors. At the AGM in April 2013, Peter Woicke stood 
down from the Board and Jack Thompson replaced him  
as chairman of the Safety and Sustainable Development 
(S&SD) Committee. 
Byron Grote, who has spent more than 30 years in the 
extractives industry, also joined the Board at the last  
AGM, and he will take over the chairmanship of the Audit 
Committee from David Challen who is standing down at  
the forthcoming AGM. I would like to take this opportunity  
to thank David for his utmost professionalism in this 
demanding role and his exceptional and dedicated  
service to the Board in general.
Sir CK Chow also retires as a director at the 2014 AGM  
and I wish to acknowledge the important contribution he  
has made to our deliberations, particularly as a member  
of the Remuneration and Nomination committees.
In July, we appointed Mphu Ramatlapeng to the Board and 
to the S&SD Committee. Mphu brings to our team a great 
deal of international board and governmental experience in 
both the public and private health sectors.
Jim Rutherford joined the Board in November and has  
been appointed to the S&SD Committee. He has more  
than 25 years’ experience in investment management and 
investment banking, both as an institutional investor and 
analyst. He brings to the Board considerable knowledge  
of the capital markets as well as a deep strategic 
understanding of the mining industry.
Most recently, in January 2014, Judy Dlamini, a former 
medical practitioner and occupational-health specialist  
who now chairs a leading South African pharmaceuticals 
company, became a director and a member of the Audit 
Committee. Judy has been a non-executive director on a 
major South African platinum board for nine years and  
has extensive South African business experience.
I am pleased to report that by the end of this year’s AGM 
25% of our Board will be female, which is ahead, in time, 
of the aspirational 2015 targets of the Davies Report.
BOARD SUPPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE
Although 2013 was a testing year for management,  
I believe that the strategic debate between the Board and  
the executive following the appointment of Mark Cutifani  
as chief executive is helping to lay the foundations for a  
real transformation in the performance of our Group. We  
have turned the spotlight on enhancing the efficiency  
of our operations, with the focus on improving day-to-day 
performance, stringent cost control and capital  
discipline. On the back of Mark’s Driving Value recovery  
programme, a number of assets are already showing 
performance improvements.
Anglo American is now on a journey to emerge as a 
revitalised company over the next two to three years.  
The Board has lent its full support to Driving Value and  
the initiatives and changes Mark Cutifani has put in  
place to bring this about. 
OUR PEOPLE
Despite the challenges of change that Driving Value 
inevitably brings, I sense our people are enthused and  
up for the challenge of returning Anglo American to being  
a company that is respected for its performance, along  
with its values.
I want to express my sincere appreciation to all employees 
for their daily commitment to constant improvement.
OUR STRATEGIC REPORT
Our 2013 Strategic report, from pages 2–91, was  
reviewed and approved by the Board of directors on  
13 February 2014.
Sir John Parker 
Chairman
03
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 OUR BUSINESS  
AROUND THE WORLD
Anglo American’s portfolio of mining businesses 
meets our customers’ changing needs, and spans:  
bulk commodities – iron ore and manganese, 
metallurgical coal and thermal coal; 
base metals and minerals – copper,  
nickel, niobium and phosphates; and, 
precious metals and minerals – in which we  
are a global leader in both platinum and diamonds.
North America
South America
Africa
Australia and Asia
Corporate and  
representative offices 
Beijing, China 
Belo Horizonte, Brazil
Brisbane, Australia
Johannesburg, South Africa
Luxembourg
Maputo, Mozambique
New Delhi, India
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Santiago, Chile 
São Paulo, Brazil
Singapore
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia
Headquarters
London,  
United Kingdom
Iron Ore and Manganese
Metallurgical Coal
Thermal Coal
Copper
Nickel 
Niobium and Phosphates
Platinum
Diamonds
Business units
EUROPE
Employees
(1)
2,100
Revenue by origin
$2,07 6 m
Taxes paid
(2)
$205 m
SOUTH AFRICA
Employees
(1)
99,500
Revenue by origin
$14, 1 32 m
Taxes paid
(2)
$ 1 ,953 m
OTHER AFRICA
Employees
(1)
13,100
Revenue by origin
$4,544 m
Taxes paid
(2)
$298 m
AUSTRALIA/
ASIA
Employees
(1)
6,800
Revenue by origin
$4,255 m
Taxes paid
(2)
$541 m
CHILE
Employees
(1)
10,800
Revenue by origin
$5,392 m
Taxes paid
(2)
$1 ,056 m
BRAZIL
Employees
(1)
23,600
Revenue by origin
$965 m
Taxes paid
(2)
$384 m
NORTH AMERICA
Employees
(1)
1,600
Revenue by origin
$882 m
Taxes paid
(2)
$82 m
OTHER SOUTH 
AMERICA
Employees
(1)
1,400
Revenue by origin
$817 m
Taxes paid
(2)
$8 m
04 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT AT A GLANCE (1)  
Average number of employees and contractors excluding employees and contractors from non-managed operations.
(2)  
Taxes paid relates to payments to government, borne and collected by Anglo American managed entities, and are  
included in various places within the consolidated income statement. 
IRON ORE AND 
MANGANESE
34,600 employees
(1)
 • Anglo American has a 
unique iron ore profile,  
with extensive, high  
quality resource bases in 
South Africa and Brazil.
 • Iron ore is a key component 
in steel, the most widely 
used of all metals. 
For more information
See page 54
Bulk
METALLURGICAL 
COAL
6,300 employees
(1)
 • Metallurgical Coal  
is Australia’s No. 2 
metallurgical coal producer 
and the world’s third 
biggest exporter of 
metallurgical coal. 
 • It operates six mines in 
Australia and Peace River 
Coal in Canada.
 • Metallurgical coal is  
the key raw material for 
around 70% of the world’s 
steel industry. 
For more information
See page 60
THERMAL 
COAL
19,000 employees
(1)
 • In South Africa, Thermal 
Coal wholly owns and 
operates seven mines, with 
a 73% interest in the Kriel 
and Zibulo collieries. In 
Colombia, Anglo American 
has a one-third 
shareholding in Cerrejón, 
the country’s biggest 
thermal coal exporter.
 • Around 40% of all 
electricity generated 
globally is powered by 
thermal coal.
For more information
See page 64
NICKEL 
2,500 employees
(1)
 • Nickel has two operating 
assets, both in Brazil,  
which produce ferronickel: 
Barro Alto and Codemin.
 • Around two-thirds of nickel 
is used in the production of 
stainless steel. 
For more information
See page 72
COPPER 
12,100 employees
(1)
 • Copper has interests  
in six operations in Chile, 
producing copper in 
concentrate, copper 
cathode and associated 
by-products such as 
molybdenum and silver.
 • Copper is used mainly  
in wire and cable,  
brass, tubing and pipes,  
air conditioning and 
refrigeration.
For more information
See page 68
Base metals and minerals
OTHER MINING  
AND INDUSTRIAL
1,700 employees
(1)
 • Consists of our Tarmac 
Building Products  
and Middle East 
businesses, and our  
share in the Lafarge 
Tarmac joint venture.
 • We disposed of our interest 
in the Amapá iron ore 
system in November 2013.
For more information
See page 90
Other Mining and Industrial
NIOBIUM AND 
PHOSPHATES
4,300 employees
(1)
 • Our Brazilian-based 
Niobium unit owns two 
niobium mines, while the 
Phosphates business 
comprises a mine and  
two chemical-processing 
facilities. 
 • Niobium’s principal 
application is as an alloying 
agent in high-strength  
steel alloys; phosphates  
are a principal ingredient  
of fertilisers.
For more information
See page 76
DIAMONDS 
20,800 employees
(1)
 • De Beers is the world’s  
leading diamond company.
 • Together with its joint 
venture partners, it 
produces about one-third 
of global rough diamonds 
by value from operations  
in Botswana, South Africa, 
Namibia and Canada.
 • The largest diamond 
jewellery market is the US, 
followed by China, Japan 
and India.
For more information
See page 86
PLATINUM 
55,900 employees
(1)
 • Platinum, principally based  
in South Africa, is the 
leading primary producer 
of PGMs, accounting for 
~40% of the world’s newly 
mined platinum.
 • Platinum and other 
platinum group metals 
(PGMs) are primarily used 
in autocatalysts for both 
diesel and petrol vehicles, 
and in jewellery. 
For more information
See page 80
 
 
3,119
 
 
 
 
Iron Ore and Manganese
Metallurgical Coal
46
Thermal Coal
541
Copper
1,739
Nickel
(44)
Niobium and Phosphates
150
Platinum
464
Diamonds
1,003
Other Mining and Industrial
(13)
Exploration
(207)
Corporate
Total: $6,620 m
(178)
 
 
11,034
 
 
 
 
Iron Ore and Manganese
Metallurgical Coal
4,630
Thermal Coal
1,422
Copper
8,380
Nickel
1,597
Niobium and Phosphates
854
Platinum
8,622
Diamonds
11,351
Other Mining and Industrial
25
Exploration
3
Corporate
Total: $47,798 m
(120)
Precious metals and minerals
05
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT MARKETPLACE
MARKETPLACE REVIEW
THE ECONOMY
GROWTH DISAPPOINTMENT
According to the IMF , global GDP growth was 3% in 2013, 
unchanged from 2012. Activity was particularly weak in  
the first half of the year, especially in Europe, China and 
other major emerging economies. But there were more 
encouraging signs of stabilisation in the second half. The 
IMF estimates that real GDP growth in the advanced 
economies declined to 1 ¼% in 2013 from 1 ½% in 2012.  
In emerging market and developing economies, real GDP 
growth dropped to 4¾% from 5%, its slowest rate since the 
global recession in 2008–09. The growth in world trade was 
unchanged at 2¾% in 2013.
After robust growth of close to 3% in 2012, the US economy 
slowed appreciably in 2013, with GDP growth of just 2%, 
principally reflecting the negative effects of a significant 
fiscal tightening. With the administration and Congress 
unable to agree on a programme to reduce the federal 
budget deficit, temporary tax cuts expired in January 2013 
and automatic spending cuts (‘sequestration’) took effect in 
March. This represented an aggregate tightening of around 2% 
of GDP , offsetting the steady improvement in private demand 
during the year. In the spring, the Federal Reserve hinted 
that it might start to scale back its asset buying programme, 
which triggered a sharp rise in market interest rates. The 
consequent tightening of financial conditions appeared to 
dampen activity in the late summer and early autumn.
After the turmoil of its debt crisis in 201 1– 12, the European 
economy stabilised in 2013. The European Central Bank’s 
commitment to ‘back stop’ government bond markets 
calmed fears of a possible fragmentation of the euro. In 
addition, the European Commission and the German 
government adopted a more pragmatic approach to fiscal 
consolidation in the troubled economies. After falling back 
into recession in late 2012 and early 2013, the euro zone  
has recovered in recent quarters. While Germany has led 
the improvement, there are also encouraging signs the 
worst is over in the crisis-hit ‘peripheral’ economies.
China’s economy slowed abruptly in the first half of 2013, 
causing some concern that growth might fall below the 
government’s 7½% objective. Apparent disagreement 
among policymakers added to the uncertainty. But in the 
summer, the authorities signalled their determination to 
support economic growth. The subsequent ‘mini-stimulus’ 
brought forward some infrastructure projects and pushed 
economic growth above 7½% for the year. In November,  
the Third Plenum of the Chinese Communist Party’s 18th 
Central Committee laid out a comprehensive programme  
of reform to encourage rebalancing and restructuring in the 
economy. The programme is the most ambitious since Deng 
Xiaoping’s reforms in the late 1970s and, if implemented, it 
could transform the economy’s longer term growth potential.
There was considerable turbulence in other major emerging 
economies in 2013. Following the Federal Reserve’s hint 
about scaling back its asset buying programme, US interest 
rates and the dollar spiked higher in the summer. This 
triggered a significant reversal of capital flows to emerging 
economies and their currencies fell sharply. Brazil, India, 
Indonesia and South Africa experienced intense  
financial volatility given their perceived macro-economic 
vulnerability: slow growth, stubborn inflation, and persistent 
budget and trade deficits. The turbulence eased in the 
autumn though financial markets remained nervous.
PROSPECTS
The world economy should strengthen in 2014 and 2015, 
with real GDP growth picking up to around 3½-4%, close to 
its historical average. In the US and Europe, the diminishing 
effects of fiscal tightening should support a solid recovery.  
In Japan, the new government’s ‘Abenomics’ should also 
contribute to stronger growth. After the sharp slowdown in 
late 2012 and 2013, the major emerging economies should 
grow in line with their underlying or ‘potential’ growth rates.
Beyond the short term cyclical rebound, there is some 
uncertainty around medium term trends in economic 
growth. Most economists believe the US economy should 
grow at around 3% a year, though there are concerns that 
sluggish investment might depress productivity growth for 
some considerable time. In Europe and Japan, there are still 
significant concerns around the overhang of government 
debt and the fragility of the banking system.
The turbulence in emerging economies has led to a more 
cautious assessment of their medium term growth 
prospects. With a less favourable external environment  
and increasing domestic challenges, the IMF recently 
revised down its forecasts for growth. Still, the powerful  
logic of convergence in living standards suggests there is 
considerable growth potential. But there is a great onus  
on domestic policymakers to implement much-needed 
reforms to unlock this potential.
Real GDP
% change on a year earlier, using PPP weighting Forecast
2018 2014 2010 2006 2002 1998 1994 1990
(6)
(4)
(2)
0
2
4
6
8
10
Advanced economies
Source: IMF
Emerging and developing economies
World
06 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Indexed 2013 commodity prices
(1)
Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Oct 2013 Aug 2013 Feb 2013 Apr 2013 Jun 2013
Price Index, December 2012 = 1.0
0.70
0.75
0.90
0.85
0.80
1.10
1.05
1.00
0.95
1.15
1.25
1.20
Source: Anglo American Commodity Research
Iron Ore (FOB Aus)
Thermal Coal
Metallurgical Coal Nickel
Platinum
Copper
Palladium
Phosphates
Manganese
(1)
  Monthly average prices
COMMODITY MARKETS
From a commodity price perspective, 201 3 was characterised 
by its lack of homogeneity, with our core commodities 
showing varied price trends in line with the structural 
fundamentals of each market. Iron ore and palladium prices, 
for example, were robust in the context of supportive market 
conditions, while annual average prices for thermal coal, 
hard coking coal (HCC), nickel and platinum weakened 
materially. Although there were steep declines in the prices 
of a number of commodities in the year, the global economic 
situation, and hence the prospects for commodities, 
appeared to stabilise and even showed some improvement 
during the final months of the year.
The monthly average copper price declined by 9% over the 
year. After falling through the first half, driven by concerns 
over the global macro-economic outlook, prices then 
stabilised for most of the rest of the year, underpinned by 
falling inventories on the three principal metal exchanges. 
But, against a backdrop of reasonable global demand 
growth, mine output increased at its fastest rate for nine 
years, pushing the underlying metal market into modest 
surplus, with inventories being built up either off-exchange, 
downstream or in Chinese bonded warehouses.
The monthly average nickel price fell by 20% over the year. 
After a marked decline during the first half, driven by a 
growing market surplus and more general economic 
uncertainty, prices then stabilised at a depressed level. 
There was a rapid increase in finished nickel production and, 
particularly, a surge in the output of nickel pig iron in China. 
Strong growth in global demand was insufficient to prevent 
LME inventories climbing to record highs. Prices during the 
second half were at a level at which, according to some 
estimates, around one-third of the global nickel industry  
was cash negative.
Platinum group metals experienced contrasting fortunes 
during 2013, with the monthly average platinum price 
weakening by 14%, while the monthly average palladium 
price rose by 4%. For platinum, this price fall came despite 
market tightness, as supply was broadly flat. Gross demand, 
however, grew by around 6%, with significant incremental 
demand generated by the launch of a South African ETF . 
Macro-economic developments, and in particular the 
weakening of the South African rand, combined with the 
calming of tension among platinum producers, government 
and unions, reduced the support for dollar-denominated 
prices. In contrast, the palladium price was robust during the 
year, as continuing market tightness was driven by strong 
demand, especially from the Chinese autocatalyst sector, 
and a marginal decrease in primary supply.
Robust steel production growth in China supported strong 
growth in global demand for steelmaking raw materials  
in 2013, but despite similar growth drivers, price trends 
differed. For iron ore, low cost seaborne supply has 
expanded, though not sufficiently to entirely displace the 
need for high cost supply from China’s mines. Iron ore prices 
averaged 4% higher during the year with a notably stronger 
performance during the second half than many analysts 
expected. Manganese ore prices, too, were higher (10% on 
an average annual basis), as relatively strong growth in 
seaborne supply was offset by a restocking cycle in China. 
By contrast, HCC benchmark prices fell by 24%. Supply side 
dynamics played a critical role, with a focus on productivity 
leading to lower costs and increased production from key 
Australian suppliers, while US miners also maintained 
exports close to historical highs despite the lower price 
environment, as a result of the very high fixed-cost 
structures in the industry.
Thermal coal prices also softened owing to excessive 
supply, despite opportunistic Chinese buying. Supply 
growth outstripped demand growth as a result of producers 
hoping to spread fixed costs over greater volumes. This 
resulted in prices appearing to find a floor well below some 
producers’ cash cost levels at $77 /t in the third quarter, 
though they subsequently recorded steady improvement 
during the final three months of the year.
In early 2013, phosphates prices were under pressure  
from weak US demand, while more recently, a reduction  
in input costs (ammonia and sulphur) has made lower price 
levels more sustainable. Combined, this has deepened the 
recent drop in prices from the usual end of year seasonal  
lull. Niobium prices also declined slightly over the year,  
following the steel market. Recent improvements in  
the ferrovanadium market are expected to filter through  
to ferroniobium.
Over the next few years, a stabilising global economy  
should provide a solid foundation for demand across 
Anglo American’s suite of commodities. On the supply  
side, the prices of some commodities are likely to be 
impacted by the delivery of large projects in the short to 
medium term. The consensus outlook reflects this view, 
showing price improvements in 2014 and 2015, compared 
with 2013, for most of Anglo American’s core commodities, 
except iron ore and copper. 
07
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 For Anglo American, the effects of such a difficult macro-
economic environment were exacerbated by operating 
challenges at key operations and adversarial labour relations 
in South Africa. Despite the challenges, significant operating 
improvements in Copper, Metallurgical Coal and Diamonds  
in the second half of the year, and the sharp fall in the South 
African rand in the final quarter, drove a 6% increase in 
underlying operating profit to $6.6 billion, with underlying 
EBITDA increasing to $9.5 billion, up by 7%. After deducting 
tax and profits attributable to non-controlling interests  
(including Diamonds, Platinum and Copper), which 
represented a greater proportion of profit than in 201 2, 
underlying earnings decreased by 7% to $2.7 billion. 
While the Group continued to make progress on the  
broader safety front, the loss of 1 4 colleagues overshadowed 
improvements to lost-time and total accident frequency rates. 
The most significant event was the loss of four colleagues, 
with a further two still missing, at the now-divested Amapá 
iron ore operation in Brazil, where a major geological event 
following heavy rainfall led to the loss of the port operation. 
Although the lost-time and total injury rates improved, we  
are deeply distressed that people are still being killed and 
injured while on company business and I am determined  
that we elevate our focus on achieving zero harm.
AROUND THE OPERATIONS
As the year progressed we continued to make solid  
progress at several of our major operations. At Los Bronces 
and Collahuasi, our two biggest copper interests in Chile, 
operational improvements in waste stripping volumes and 
process tonnages supported a significant increase in  
copper production. 
At the Sishen iron ore mine in South Africa, which is currently 
constrained by waste material, resulting in insufficient 
exposed ore and a consequent fall-off in iron ore output, a 
redesign of the pit and changes to core operating processes 
should result in consistently higher production from 201 5 
onwards. The Sishen challenges have been partially offset  
by an impressive performance from Kolomela, which is now 
operating at well above nameplate capacity. Meanwhile, in 
Brazil, the 26.5 Mtpa Minas-Rio iron ore project was 84% 
complete by the end of the year and remains on track to ship 
its first iron ore by the end of 201 4.
At our underground metallurgical coal mines, production 
improved by 30%, with Moranbah North lifting longwall 
output by 39% on the back of an improvement in cutting 
hours, an increase in automated cutting rates and reduced 
unplanned downtime. Continued focus on discretionary costs 
and productivity has resulted in FOB cash unit costs at the 
Australian operations reducing by 8%. In South Africa, the 
priority is to implement a range of business improvement 
initiatives aimed at driving value at our Thermal Coal mines 
and expansion projects.
Ahead of the furnace rebuilds at Barro Alto in Brazil, which  
will take place from 201 4-2016, our Nickel business has put  
in place a series of initiatives to improve output, reduce costs 
and optimise value. At our Niobium unit, the Boa Vista Fresh 
Rock expansion project, which will raise niobium output by 
around 50%, is due to be commissioned later this year. On  
the Phosphates side of the business, margins are improving 
with more efficient sales pricing initiatives, and expansion 
opportunities are being evaluated in order to meet the 
agriculture market’s growing demand for fertilisers.
In 201 3, our Platinum business faced significant challenges. 
Cost pressures in the older, deep-level operations have been 
driven by double-digit increases in power rates, declining 
productivity and labour unrest. If we add continuing price 
pressure exerted by declining automotive demand, this was  
a severely challenging year for the Platinum business. We 
finalised a ‘root-and-branch’ review of the business to address 
the changed fundamentals of the platinum industry and to 
understand the primary drivers of the dramatic reduction in 
profitability across the sector. Following an extensive but 
Mark Cutifani
FOCUSED  
ON DELIVERY
2013 – A TESTING YEAR 
The year under review was an extremely testing 
one for the mining industry. Against a backdrop of 
weaker growth in the world economy, particularly 
in the emerging economies, commodity demand 
remained soft with a decline in average realised 
prices for most of the commodities the Group 
produces. The material exception was iron ore.
STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
COMPLETION AT THE MINAS-RIO 
IRON ORE PROJECT
84%
For more information
See page 54
PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT  
AT OUR METALLURGICAL COAL 
UNDERGROUND MINES
30%
For more information 
See page 60
08 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 constructive process of engagement with government and 
the unions, our labour force is being aligned with operational 
requirements. We are putting the review’s proposals  
into action across the business and concentrating on those  
assets with sustained profitability potential, while adjusting 
production more closely with current product demand.
De Beers had a good year and was able to increase output 
against a background of rising demand. In Botswana, flagship 
mine Jwaneng drove higher production as it recovered from a 
slope failure in mid-201 2, while Orapa recorded slightly higher 
output. In Canada, Snap Lake lifted the number of carats 
recovered by around 50% as it revised mining methods and 
operating practices.
OUR STRATEGY IS ALL ABOUT DELIVERY
We are making headway on our strategy, which builds off 
three key elements: investing in high quality, competitively 
positioned assets to create a portfolio of businesses that meet 
our customers’ changing needs; delivering sustainable value 
by organising our business, our people and the way we work 
to outperform across the value chain, while mining safely and 
responsibly; and treating all of our stakeholders with care and 
respect and partnering with them to reach their potential, 
starting with our employees.
In the short to medium term, we are doing so through a 
change programme called Driving Value, which focuses on 
the immediate challenges of revitalising our business while 
laying the foundation for success over the longer term. We 
have set demanding but achievable targets and we are 
determined to meet them by working efficiently and 
effectively to drive significantly greater value from our asset 
base. We are seeing early progress, including in our Platinum 
and Metallurgical Coal businesses, across our Commercial 
initiatives and in reducing early stage project evaluation costs 
by $200 million in 201 3 alone. Our pathway to increase 
margins and returns by 2016 is clear.
What is very apparent to me, after visiting as many 
operations as I could during my first nine months in the job,  
is that Anglo American has several assets of the highest 
quality. Sishen and Kolomela in iron ore; Los Bronces and 
Collahuasi in copper; Jwaneng, Orapa and Venetia in 
diamonds; Mogalakwena in platinum; and Moranbah North 
in metallurgical coal are all world-class assets in a quality, 
diversified commodity portfolio. These assets will be 
augmented as major developing projects such as Minas-Rio 
and the Metallurgical Coal development at Grosvenor in 
Australia come on stream over the next three years.
Just as importantly, we now know what we need to do to 
realise the value potential from such an attractive asset  
base. Following the comprehensive asset review we put in 
train, as part of Driving Value, we have identified a range of 
opportunities which will enable us to better utilise the installed 
capital across our operations, further driving improved 
margins and returns. 
Overall, our assets are in reasonable shape, but, crucially,  
we need to lift returns by focusing on both capital  
deployment and operating performance. During the 
downturn we have seen the mining industry’s return on  
capital employed (ROCE) plummet from around 24% to 
about 10%. Anglo American’s attributable ROCE fell to  
1 1 % in 201 2 and 201 3. Considering the Company’s cost of 
capital, that rate of return is not good enough for us, nor our 
shareholders, and we have set a target for Anglo American  
to reach a sustainable minimum 1 5% attributable ROCE  
by 2016.
Strikingly, more than 80% of our earnings are derived from 
assets in the bottom half of the cost curve and, unsurprisingly, 
we have put the spotlight on those that do not stack up in 
terms of expected ROCE, or which, in our view, do not have 
the potential to deliver material improvements. 
During September, following a thorough assessment of  
our extensive pipeline of long-dated project options, we also 
took the decision to withdraw from the Pebble copper project 
in Alaska. Our focus for the future is to prioritise capital for 
projects with the highest value and lowest risk profiles within 
our portfolio, and to reduce the capital required to sustain 
such projects during the pre-approval phases of development 
as part of a more effective, value-driven capital allocation 
model. In 201 3, this resulted in a reduction in exploration and 
evaluation costs from $731 million in 201 2, to $533 million. 
Driving Value includes managing our assets more efficiently 
and effectively. T o achieve that objective, we need to have the 
right people in the right roles. We are now making progress  
on a far-reaching restructuring programme from top to 
bottom of the organisation. We aim to strip out extraneous 
layers of management in order to enable more direct 
reporting and clearer responsibilities, and have already 
reshaped the senior management team. We have also partly 
remodelled the business units by integrating our two Coal 
businesses and by combining Niobium and Phosphates with 
our Nickel business. Across our Commercial unit – which now 
has two hubs, in Singapore and London, to be close to our 
major markets – we are also making significant changes to 
the way we manage our marketing, sales and logistics 
01 Dr Nkosazana Dlamini 
Zuma, Chairperson  
of the African Union 
Commission, with  
Mark Cutifani at the 
Anglo American 
corporate office in 
Johannesburg. 
02 Mark Cutifani  
in conversation  
with finance director 
René Médori.
01 02
09
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Los Bronces – Chile
Collahuasi – Chile
Quellaveco project – Peru
Cerrejón – Colombia
Minas-Rio project – Brazil
Barro Alto – Brazil
Codemin – Brazil
Niobium mining and processing operations – Brazil
Boa Vista project – Brazil
Phosphates mine and fertiliser plant – Brazil
Moranbah North – Australia 
Grosvenor project – Australia
Dawson – Australia
Peace River Coal – Canada
Snap Lake – Canada
Jwaneng – Botswana 
Venetia – South Africa 
Sishen – South Africa 
Bathopele – South Africa 
Mogalakwena – South Africa 
Zibulo – South Africa 
Singapore Commercial office 
Beijing representative office
During his first week in the role, new chief executive, 
Mark Cutifani, met a hundred senior managers based  
in London and across the businesses. In the first eight 
months, he also met and spoke with a significant portion 
of the Group’s top 400 managers, as well as several 
hundred employees, corporate office staff and mine 
operators. In 2013, he visited all business units’ major 
operations and projects, including:
OPERATIONS VISITED
Collahuasi, Chile 
An operator working at the casting 
wheel, where molten copper is poured 
into moulds to form copper cathodes.
Snap Lake, Canada  
Exploration activities at the Snap Lake 
diamond mine, located in the 
Northwest T erritories.
Moranbah North, Australia  
Monitoring longwall underground 
mining operations on a ‘smart board’.
Zibulo, South Africa 
Mark Cutifani visited Thermal Coal’s 
Zibulo colliery on Anglo American’s 
Global Safety Day – 4 November 201 3.
Minas-Rio, Brazil  
Filtration tanks at the Port of Açu, 
from where the first iron ore from 
Minas-Rio is scheduled to be 
exported by the end of 2014.
10 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT We must apply our minds to how we can reallocate our 
resources to deliver better outcomes for stakeholders.  
Mining companies with communities need to take a far  
more active role in reshaping our future – to accept that  
our long term prosperity depends on the strength of our 
relationships with all of our stakeholders, to recognise that  
we have a responsibility to work collaboratively to realise  
our shared purpose. We need to put aside our sometimes 
short term competitive issues and concerns and assist each  
other in rebuilding our relationship with our most important 
stakeholders. It is only through greater cohesiveness and 
co-operation on our part, and the support of our stakeholders, 
that we will be able to provide sustainable financial returns  
to shareholders. We believe the focus on partnerships is 
consistent with delivering sustainable improvements to  
our shareholders.
OUTLOOK
The world economy should strengthen in 201 4 and 201 5  
as we continue to emerge from the challenges of the global 
financial crisis. China should continue to grow by around  
7% and the diminishing effects of fiscal tightening should 
support a firmer recovery in the US and beyond.
The turbulence in emerging economies in 201 3 has led to  
a more cautious assessment of their medium term growth 
prospects. Still, there are fundamental trends that indicate 
support for continuing growth, particularly with the scope for 
further significant catch-up in living standards. But we cannot 
be complacent about this growth given the current challenges 
in many economies. There is an imperative for domestic 
policymakers to implement much-needed reforms to unlock 
this potential.
While I expect headwinds to continue in 201 4 as we reset  
the business, the benefits of much-improved operational 
processes and performance will flow through largely in 201 5 
and 2016. In the immediate term, we have already delivered 
significant sustainable improvements, including early 
operational improvements, overhead reduction and reducing 
early-stage project expenditure.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
I would like to thank our employees and contractors, as well  
as our many and varied stakeholders, for their dedication and 
support through a challenging year. I know I can count on  
you all as we continue to pursue our opportunities to deliver 
on our potential. T ogether, we are making a real difference. 
Finally, I wish to acknowledge the support and wise counsel  
of our chairman Sir John Parker and all members of the  
Board during this period of dynamic change, the pursuit  
of great opportunities and delivering on our potential.
Mark Cutifani 
Chief Executive
activities. These are already enhancing margins and are 
expected to deliver an additional $400 million a year of 
operating profit by 2016 (on an attributable basis).
We have identified approximately 85% of the incremental 
EBIT necessary to achieve the level of return we expect from 
the business and we are working on the areas where we  
see additional potential. Our capital allocation process, for 
example, has been rebuilt to enforce more stringent criteria 
and controls. This is expected to lead to a $400 million per 
annum cash flow improvement in 201 4 by recalibrating  
our project pipeline. In 201 3, we realised proceeds of almost  
$400 million from non-core asset sales and we expect to 
make further savings of $500 million through a reduction in 
overheads as well as supply chain savings of $100 million. 
Preserving our resource optionality for the future also 
remains a priority within our project development pipeline  
and capital allocation analyses. For example, following our 
recent stage-gate analysis of the Quellaveco copper project 
in Peru, we are re-scoping a larger scale project to enhance 
the economic case beyond our return criteria, while retaining 
government and community support.
On the environmental front, the implementation of our water 
programme, WETT, has once again had a material impact  
on improving our water efficiency across the Group. We are 
trending ahead of the target set (a 1 4% reduction against 
projected consumption in 2020) and delivered a calculated 
saving of more than $85 million in 201 3. In addition, around 
67% of our total water needs are met by recycled water. The 
implementation of 206 energy- and carbon-saving projects 
since 201 1, as part of our ECO
2
MAN programme, delivered 
savings of 4.3 million GJ of energy and 3.5 million tonnes of 
carbon dioxide equivalent emissions in 201 3. The resulting 
avoided energy cost is estimated at $95.5 million.
THE BIGGER PICTURE
Beyond our own Group, however, there is a bigger picture,  
of which we are all a part. We are among seven billion people 
who share this planet and in 10 years’ time we are likely to  
be a billion more. Yet the mining industry is not supplying  
the resources in sufficient quantities to support the world’s 
growth. Declining productivity, spiralling costs, community 
activism, government intervention, deepening pits and lower 
ore grades, infrastructure challenges and the industry’s poor 
image are hampering our projects and preventing us from 
delivering on society’s needs. 
For one thing, we will have to change the way we mine. We 
cannot carry on doing ‘business as usual’ if we are to supply  
the world’s needs in a responsible and sustainable way.  
Many of our business practices and operating models are 
years behind other industries’; we have much to learn  
from them. All mining companies will have to invest much 
more strategically in innovation simply to stay in business.
Furthermore, while many mining companies have made  
good progress in securing and retaining their social licences 
to operate, becoming pivotal partners in building long term 
social and physical infrastructure that creates a positive 
benefit for local and regional economies is becoming a 
mission-critical imperative. 
We have 
identified 
approximately 
85% of the 
incremental 
EBIT necessary 
to achieve the 
level of return 
we expect from 
the business.
11
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 OUR WORLD, 
OUR ROLE
The story of mining, and of Anglo American,  
is about people and how we live every day. The 
smartphone that wakes you, the coffee machine 
you’ve just switched on, your journey to work – 
none of those could happen without the products 
from mining. 
to fertilisers and pharmaceuticals. Every day we learn  
of more uses for metals and minerals in our daily lives.
Yet we cannot take the earth’s minerals for granted. The 
supply is finite and it is becoming more difficult and more 
costly to access these essential commodities. Mining 
companies, and their shareholders, invest billions of dollars 
to find, develop and deliver the materials that help our 
economies grow. 
At Anglo American we are proud of doing this for almost a 
century. We mine a range of diverse commodities, because 
each is needed in different ways by people in countries 
around the globe. For example, we mine iron ore and 
metallurgical coal, both of which are used to make steel –  
a product essential for the creation of emerging urban 
environments. We mine copper – a key component in the 
electrical and electronics revolution. We mine phosphates 
– delivering fertiliser products that help farmers maximise 
the crops they grow. The precious metals we mine are 
required in car catalytic converters and help improve the 
quality of the air we breathe.
MINING TODAY AND TOMORROW
Today, there are 7 billion people in the world, most with the 
hope of enjoying a lifestyle that those in the developed world 
take for granted. And by 2025 there will be another billion, 
with more of us choosing to live in cities than ever before.  
It is clear that our need for the products from mining will 
continue to grow well into the future. Mining not only enables 
the modern world to function and develop, it enables 
innovation, with minerals and metals the starting point for  
a variety of vital industries – from chemicals and electronics, 
BUILDING 
COMMUNITIES
New homes built in 2013 
for employees at Kumba’s 
Kolomela mine.
718
PROTECTING THE 
ENVIRONMENT
Proportion of all water  
used at Anglo American’s 
operations that is recycled.
67%
INVESTING IN 
PEOPLE
External training spend 
across Anglo American  
in 2013.
$ 1 04 m
$ 1 .6 bn 
SPENT WITH SUPPLIERS 
BASED IN THE 
COMMUNITIES CLOSE  
TO OUR OPERATIONS
$24.1 bn 
CONTRIBUTION  
TO SOCIETY
158,900 
EMPLOYEES AND 
CONTRACTORS  
AROUND THE WORLD
12 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT WHY MINING MATTERS We mine a 
range of diverse 
commodities, 
because each  
is needed in 
different ways 
by people in 
countries 
around the 
globe.
We believe that by mining such a wide range of metals and 
minerals we spread our risk, increase the opportunities 
available to us, and can transfer experience and best 
practice across commodities and geographies. 
But mining is not just about delivering products to customers. 
Mining creates jobs and helps communities develop new 
skills and improve education; it builds infrastructure such as 
electricity, piped water, telecommunications, roads; mining 
can also bring improved healthcare and environmental 
stewardship; and mining brings innovation and development. 
We use our scale and reach to ensure a fairer distribution  
of the opportunities mining brings. For example, in 2013, 
almost 80% of the $24.1 billion Anglo American spent  
on suppliers, employees, and in taxes and royalties to 
governments, was spent in developing countries, with the 
positive economic effects extending well beyond those 
direct impacts. 
We believe that to be a force for good in a changing world, we 
must maximise our contribution to sustainable development 
globally and act to the benefit of our host communities, both 
during and beyond the lives of our operations. 
We have to work hard to make a positive and welcome 
impact in the communities and ecosystems around our 
mines. We work with our host communities to help improve 
healthcare, education, and skills development, protect 
scarce resources like land and water, and we use our supply 
chain to develop local economies.
We will continue to explore and invest in new technologies  
to ensure more efficient operations, to reduce our impact  
on the environment and realise greater value for our 
customers and shareholders. 
Most importantly, we will endeavour to work in partnership 
with our key stakeholders in seeking the best way to deliver 
the resources the world needs.
BUILDING 
PARTNERSHIPS
Jobs created or maintained 
through our enterprise 
development initiatives.
76,500
CREATING  
SHARED VALUE
Percentage of government 
revenues in low to middle 
income economies 
generated by mining.
3–20%
INNOVATING NEW 
TECHNOLOGY
The target date for most 
major automakers for first 
commercial sales of their fuel 
cell vehicles. Most fuel cells 
contain platinum catalysts.
2015
Source: ICMM, NMA, geology.com, Canalys Research, Johnson Matthey
1.5 km 
THE AVERAGE  
CAR CONTAINS  
1.5 KILOMETRES  
OF COPPER WIRE
66 
INDIVIDUAL MINERALS 
THAT CONTRIBUTE TO A 
TYPICAL COMPUTER
335 
TONNES OF STEEL,  
4.7 TONNES OF COPPER,  
3 TONNES OF ALUMINIUM 
IN A SINGLE WIND 
TURBINE
2.6 bn units 
WORLDWIDE MOBILE 
DEVICE SHIPMENTS  
WILL REACH 2.6 BILLION 
UNITS BY 2016
13
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 At Anglo American, we recognise that we must 
continually adapt and improve if we are to achieve 
our ambition to become the investment of choice,  
the partner of choice and the employer of choice. 
DESIGNED TO DELIVER 
VALUE FOR ALL OUR 
STAKEHOLDERS
Our shareholders own the business and are entitled to 
attractive returns, reflecting the risk they take in funding  
the business. 
Our employees are the business and must be treated  
with care and respect and compensated fairly for their  
work. Our stakeholders are partners in the business and  
are entitled to fair compensation for their contributions  
to business success.
Although we do not have all the answers, we can start  
the conversation about what better mining looks like  
from both a shareholder and a stakeholder perspective. 
We are clear about our purpose: ‘Together, we create 
sustainable value that makes a real difference’, and this 
means we need to deliver our promised returns to 
shareholders, as well as work with our stakeholders to  
find mutually beneficial solutions to our shared challenges. 
Our strategy to achieve this hinges on three key elements: 
our portfolio; our people; and, ultimately, our performance.
Performance
Operating safely  
and responsibly across 
the mining value chain  
to deliver sustainable 
value and best meet  
our customer and  
stakeholder  
needs
…in realising  
our strategy.
Portfolio
Investing in a  
portfolio of assets  
that deliver superior 
margins and returns 
through the  
cycle
And we will  
measure value  
against our  
seven pillars.
Safety and Health
Environment
Socio-political
People
Production
Cost
Financial
Our values  
guide us…
Safety
Care and respect
Integrity
Accountability
Collaboration
Innovation
People
Organising and 
developing our people  
to deliver on our promises 
and build respectful and  
mutually beneficial 
relationships with our 
stakeholders
…to achieve  
our ambition.
The investment  
of choice, the  
partner of choice  
and the employer  
of choice
Our purpose  
drives us…
Together, we  
create sustainable  
value that makes a  
real difference
14 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY OUR SEVEN  
PILLARS OF VALUE
Delivering on our commitments to shareholders 
while creating an attractive and differentiated  
value proposition for our partners and stakeholders 
is the very essence of delivering ‘sustainable  
long term value’.
OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Continuously improving and maintaining positive 
relationships with our many stakeholders is one of  
our principal priorities. We believe that establishing 
relationships built on trust is fundamental to our ability  
to create sustainable value. Our main stakeholder  
groups are:
 • trade unions
 • governments
 • communities
 • suppliers and contractors
 • non-governmental organisations (NGOs)  
and civil society bodies
 • joint venture and other strategic business partners
 • customers
 • business peers.
We will use a business scorecard to measure the  
Group, business unit and asset performance against  
our objective of sustainable value creation. The design  
is still evolving; however, it will consider seven areas or 
‘value pillars’.
Safety and Health  
to do no harm to our employees and contractors
Environment 
to do no lasting harm to the environment
Socio-political  
to partner in the benefits of mining with local 
communities and governments
People  
to resource the organisation with an engaged,  
productive workforce 
Production 
to extract our resources in a sustainable way  
to create value
Cost  
to be competitive by operating as efficiently as possible 
Financial 
to deliver sustainable value for our shareholders.
Read about our KPIs
See page 18 
OUR DELIVERY ROADMAP
IMMEDIATE FOCUS
15%
Effective and efficient  
Our strategy sets out the path for sustainable 
success towards our ambition. We must, however, 
address some immediate strategic issues if we are 
to deliver long term sustainable value in the future.
We are doing this through Driving Value, a change 
programme that sets us on a path to recovery to 2016, 
and sets our business up for long term success.
Driving Value initiatives are under way to support 
our ambition to achieve at least a 15% attributable 
return on capital employed (ROCE) by 2016.
THE LONGER TERM
SUSTAINABLE  
RETURNS
Building on the foundations 
As we have defined, 2016 is simply a date by which we 
intend to deliver a minimum acceptable return for our 
shareholders. Based on this foundation, we aim to 
continue to grow our financial performance to deliver  
a longer term sustainable return of greater than 15% 
through the business cycle.
15
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 DESIGNED TO DELIVER NOW
CAPITAL ALLOCATION
We have set ourselves a realistic financial target of  
delivering at least a 15% attributable ROCE by 2016. 
Achieving this target will require a renewed focus on capital 
discipline, our capital deployment to be directed towards 
high value, low risk projects, and ensuring we manage the 
balance between growth and shareholder returns.
For more information
See page 20 
BUSINESS EXECUTION 
We have a high quality asset base with the potential to 
deliver better margins and returns. The asset review process 
has identified operational improvement opportunities and 
we are working towards executing against our plans while 
remaining committed to the highest standards of safe  
and sustainable mining.
For more information
See page 34 
 
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
We understand that we must work together with our 
stakeholders to partner with them to reach their potential. Our 
ability to build effective and mutually beneficial partnerships 
with host communities and governments is of particular 
importance to us and is a prerequisite for investment.
For more information
See page 26
 
ORGANISATION STRUCTURE
We believe that having the right people in the right roles 
doing the right work is critical to achieving our ambition,  
and so, we are redesigning our organisation to enable  
our people and our business to be successful. 
For more information
See page 26
ADDRESSING OUR  
IMMEDIATE PRIORITIES
As part of our Driving Value change programme  
we have completed the review of our asset portfolio 
and now understand what has to be done to achieve 
both our short term targets and long term ambitions. 
We have focused on four strategic priority areas to  
help us deliver now.
1. EXPECTATION SETTING AND 
OPERATIONAL PLANNING
  The first step in understanding how to optimise each  
of our assets is to determine the gap between the current 
capabilities of the assets versus budgeted expectations.
2. PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS 
 We then analyse data and key performance indicators 
(KPIs) generated by the asset to confirm average 
performance levels, assuming no changes to the  
current process.
3. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT
 Incremental changes are made to the operation of  
the assets to deliver a positive and sustainable shift  
in performance with minimal capital outlay. 
HOW WE CREATE VALUE 
Anglo American finds, develops, mines, processes  
and markets a range of commodities that meet our 
customers’ changing needs. We have a diverse portfolio 
of high quality assets, with many having significant 
scalability potential. We are committed to running our 
business all the way from discovery to market in a safe 
and responsible way, to deliver long term sustainable 
value to all our stakeholders.
OUR OPERATIONAL MODEL 
We are developing a new approach to drive and  
support change across our value chain. Starting  
with clear and realistic expectations, we will plan 
appropriately and then put those plans into action, 
rigorously measuring and analysing successes and 
failures to learn from both.
ORGANISATIONAL MODEL 
We want to create a more effective and efficient 
organisation, where we only carry out the necessary 
work – the right work – to achieve our strategy. We aim 
to reduce duplication, eliminate tasks that do not add 
value, and ensure that the work required is carried out by 
people with the right capabilities, resources and tools. We 
are clear who makes decisions across the Group and, 
therefore, who is accountable for the outcomes of 
these decisions.
16 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR RESERVES AND RESOURCES
The quality and extent of its mineral 
resource base is the lifeblood of any mining 
company, providing it with a range of 
development and other value creating 
options for the future. At Anglo American, 
we have an extensive ore reserve and 
mineral resource base across all of the 
commodities in our portfolio and across  
our wide geographic footprint, providing us 
with a suite of options for delivering value 
through different commodities’ economic 
cycles. The efficient extraction of metals 
and minerals from these orebodies 
underpins our ongoing profitability.
COMMUNITIES AND GOVERNMENTS
Governments, as custodians, own the 
resources we develop and set the tax and 
regulatory frameworks within which we 
operate. Our host communities are major 
providers of employees and suppliers, and 
without their support we cannot succeed.
Both governments and communities 
expect us to run safe and environmentally 
responsible operations, and to contribute to 
the long term development of our host 
communities and countries.
OUR EMPLOYEES
Our employees are the business. We can 
build our mines and our operations, but if  
we do not have an engaged and committed 
workforce we will never achieve our true 
potential. We must participate in every 
individual’s personal development, to 
support them to succeed in return for  
their commitment to give us their best.  
We believe we can be the Employer of 
Choice by rewarding our people at  
market-competitive rates while providing 
them the opportunity to realise their 
personal potential.
OUR KEY RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS 
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE
We believe that the role of our business 
units is to carry out core ‘operational work’ 
and that the role of the Group corporate 
functions is to provide support to enable 
this to happen. A basic principle of our new 
organisation model is that all work should 
be done at the operations unless there is  
a clear reason for it to be done elsewhere. 
OPERATIONAL WORK
Operational work is the core value-
generating work of our business. For  
Anglo American, this includes finding, 
mining, processing, and moving and 
marketing our metals and minerals. We also 
believe that building relationships with our 
stakeholders is core to operating effectively. 
The work of Commercial is considered ‘core 
operational’ because it is a fundamental 
part of our value chain and is critical to our 
ability to deliver value to our shareholders 
and stakeholders.
FUNCTIONAL SUPPORT
Our mining operations and commercial 
business cannot achieve the Group’s 
strategic objectives alone; they require 
value-adding specialist support and 
services by the Group functions at the 
corporate centre. These provide expert 
advice to our operational managers that 
helps improve business performance 
across the Group.
FIND
Our exploration teams 
discover mineral 
deposits in a safe and 
responsible way to 
replenish the mineral 
resources that underpin 
our future success.
SECURE 
Gaining and maintaining 
our social and legal 
licence to operate, 
through open and 
honest engagement 
with our stakeholders, is 
critical to the sustainability 
of our business.
MINE
We apply more than  
95 years of opencast  
and deep-level mining 
experience, along  
with unique in-house 
technological expertise, 
to extract mineral 
resources in the safest, 
most efficient way.
PROCESS
We generate extra  
value by processing  
and refining many of  
our commodities.
MOVE
Whether providing 
innovative haulage 
solutions within a mine,  
or co-ordinating global 
cargo deliveries, we  
offer efficient and 
effective transport  
of our commodities.
MARKET
We collaborate with our 
customers around the 
world to tailor products  
to their specific needs.
MARKET MOVE PROCESS MINE SECURE FIND
17
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 18 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
DESIGNED TO BE MEASURED
STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(1)
 The table above reflects historically reported KPIs against our seven pillars. It does not represent our new business scorecard.
PILLARS OF VALUE
(1)
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIs)
      Safety and Health 
To do no harm to  
our employees
For more information see  
People on page 26 
Work-related fatal injury frequency rate (FIFR) 
FIFR is calculated as the number of fatal injuries to 
employees or contractors per 200,000 hours worked
New cases of occupational disease (NCOD)
Number of new cases of occupational disease 
diagnosed among employees during the  
reporting period
Lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) 
The number of lost-time injuries (LTIs) per 200,000 
hours worked. An LTI is an occupational injury which 
renders the person unable to perform the routine 
functions of his/her job for one full shift or more the 
day after the injury was incurred, whether a 
scheduled workday or not
      Environment
To do no lasting harm  
to the environment
For more information see  
Performance on page 34
Energy consumption 
Measured in million gigajoules (GJ)
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  
Measured in million tonnes of CO
2 
equivalent 
emissions
Total water consumed 
Total water consumed includes water used  
for primary and non-primary activities, measured  
in million m
3
      Socio-political
To partner in the benefits of 
mining with local communities 
and governments
For more information see  
People on page 26 
Corporate social investment 
Social investment as defined by the London 
Benchmarking Group includes donations, gifts in  
kind and staff time for administering community 
programmes and volunteering in company time  
and is shown as a percentage of profit before tax
Enterprise development 
Number of companies supported, and number  
of jobs sustained, by companies supported by  
Anglo American enterprise development initiatives
      People
To resource the organisation 
with an engaged, productive 
workforce
For more information see  
People on page 26 
Voluntary labour turnover 
Number of permanent employee resignations  
as a percentage of total permanent employees
Gender diversity 
Percentage of women, and female managers, 
employed by the Group
      Production
To extract our mineral 
resources in a sustainable 
way to create value
For more information see  
Performance on page 34
Production volumes  
Production volumes for the year are discussed at a 
commodity level within each Business Unit section 
of the annual report (see pages 54–91 ). Quarterly 
production figures are shown on page 254
      Cost
To be competitive by 
operating as efficiently  
as possible
For more information see  
Portfolio on page 20 
Performance on page 34
Unit costs of production  
Unit costs of production are discussed at a commodity 
level within each Business Unit section of the annual 
report (see pages 54–91 ). Other factors that impact 
costs across the Group are discussed in the 
Performance section of the annual report  
(see pages 34–45)
      Financial
To deliver sustainable  
returns for our shareholders
For more information see  
Portfolio on page 20 
Performance on page 34
Attributable return on capital employed 
The return on adjusted capital employed attributable to 
equity shareholders of Anglo American. It excludes the 
portion of the return and capital employed attributable  
to non-controlling interests in operations where  
Anglo American has control but does not hold 100%  
of the equity. It is calculated as annualised underlying  
operating profit divided by adjusted capital employed
Underlying earnings per share  
Underlying earnings are net profit attributable  
to equity shareholders, before special items  
and remeasurements 19
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
RESULTS AND TARGETS
(2)
Work-related fatal injury 
frequency rate (FIFR)
Target: Zero fatal incidents
14 fatalities, 0.008 FIFR
2013
2012
13 fatalities, 0.007 FIFR
0.49
2013
2012
0.58
Lost-time injury frequency rate ( LTIFR)
Target: Zero incidents. 
The ultimate goal of zero harm remains
209
2013
2012
174
New cases of occupational 
disease (NCOD) 
T arget: Zero (long term)
106
2013
2012
113
Energy consumption
Million GJ total energy used
Target: 7% saving against 2015 business as usual (BAU)
Performance: 5% saving against 2013 BAU
17
2013
2012
18
GHG emissions
Mt CO
2 
equivalent
Target: 19% saving against 2015 projected BAU.
Performance: 19% saving against 2013 BAU.
201Mm
3
2013
2012
156Mm
3
Total water use
Target: 14% saving against 2020 projected BAU
Performance: 22% saving against 2013 BAU
$127 m
2013
2012
$146 m
Corporate social investment
(3)
2013: 2.2% of proﬁt before tax
2012: 2.8% of proﬁt before tax
48,111
2013
2012
40,217
Enterprise development
Businesses supported
   
76,543
2013
2012
64,927
Enterprise development
Jobs sustained
   
2.0%
2013
2012
2.4%
Voluntary labour turnover
23%
2013
2012
23%
Gender diversity
Managers who are female
   
16%
2013
2012
15%
Gender diversity
Women as a percentage of total workforce
   
Real cash costs are the annual increase/
decrease in the Group’s operating cash  
costs versus the prior year, excluding  
depreciation, the impact of CPI and foreign 
exchange, and is after capitalisation of 
stripping costs
11%
2013
2012
11%
Group attributable ROCE
$2.09
2013
2012
$2.28
Underlying EPS
(2) 
The results and targets in the KPI table above include wholly owned subsidiaries and joint operations over which  
Anglo American has management control. Data reported in 2012 includes results from De Beers from the date of acquisition.
(3) 
CSI data from 2012 has been restated owing to a change request made by De Beers subsequent to the publication of the 2012 Annual Report.
 
 
(2%)
 
Kumba Iron Ore
Metallurgical Coal
2%
Thermal Coal
(2%)
 
 
 
Copper
17%
Nickel
(12%)
Niobium
2%
5%
6%
Diamonds
12%
Platinum
Phosphates
2011 8%
2012 2%
2013 (2%)
2010 2%
2009 (5%) “ Mogalakwena is an asset of rare scale and quality –  
the largest open-pit platinum mine in the world  
and our largest reserve base, with the highest- 
value contribution from nickel and copper. 
Mogalakwena provides us with an enviable  
range of development options.”
Chris Griffith  
CEO, Platinum
Image  
(Left to right)  
Wi-Fi technician  
Lerato Rakobela and 
technical specialists 
Mzu Hlebo and  
Tikoane Sonopo with 
ground stability radar 
equipment at 
Mogalakwena’s  
open pit.
MOGALAKWENA – A WORLD-CLASS  
PLATINUM RESOURCE PROVIDING FLEXIBLE 
GROWTH OPTIONS
The Platreef, in South Africa’s Limpopo province, is one  
of the world’s largest precious-metal deposits and the 
location of our Mogalakwena platinum mine. The mine 
currently produces around 300,000 ounces of platinum  
a year, and a similar by-product value contribution from 
palladium, rhodium, nickel, copper and gold. Its open-pit 
mining method and significant by-product credits result in  
it being the lowest operating cost, and highest cash margin, 
platinum operation in our portfolio, and positions 
Mogalakwena comfortably in the lowest operating cost 
quartile of the platinum industry.
Mogalakwena is an excellent example of an asset where  
we feel we can expand production without entering into 
significant capital commitments. Based on our early-  
stage analysis, we believe the potential is there to reach 
400,000 ounces of platinum by 2017, at low capital intensity 
– a real opportunity to deliver superior returns on our  
invested capital.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 20
STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PORTFOLIO DISCIPLINED 
INVESTMENT TO 
DELIVER IMPROVING 
RETURNS
MINING RATE POTENTIAL BY 2017
400 k oz/ pa
MINE LIFE
(1)
 
27 years
RESERVES (4E)
1 41 .6 Moz
Location
Mogalakwena is situated 30 kilometres 
north-west of the town of Mokopane in the 
province of Limpopo and is the only operating 
platinum mine on the Northern Limb. 
Other platinum mines
South Africa
Mozambique
Botswana
Zimbabwe
Indian Ocean Pillars of value:
  
Cost
  
Financial
For more on pillars of value and our KPIs
See pages 14–15 and 18–19
(1) 
Mine Life limited to the current Mining Right period.
Mogalakwena mine
Mogalakwena mines Platreef ore and consists of  
five open pits. The mining method is open-pit truck and  
shovel and the current pit depths vary from 45 metres 
(Mogalakwena North) to 245 metres (Sandsloot).  
The ore is milled at the new, fully operational  
North Concentrator and the older South Concentrator.
Strategic report
21 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 INVESTING TO DELIVER SUPERIOR 
MARGINS AND RETURNS THROUGH 
THE CYCLE
FOCUSED CAPITAL ALLOCATION
Across the Group, we have applied a stringent capital 
allocation model that will result in a more disciplined 
approach to sustaining and growing our production  
with less capital investment. 
Our investment priorities have changed, such that our 
primary scrutiny is on the quality and return profile of 
individual assets within attractive commodity industries, 
where previously our focus was directed more towards 
building a greater presence in those commodities that  
we believed to be most attractive.
When it comes to development of our existing assets, 
building new projects or acquiring assets, we will only 
pursue an opportunity if the returns are attractive, we are 
confident in our delivery of the value, and that it is the best 
place to commit our capital when compared against all other 
options, including returning capital to our shareholders.
We have improved our investment review and approval 
processes to support this approach, building greater  
confidence in our assessment of the pipeline of options.  
We will continue to review this pipeline to optimise its value 
by prioritising opportunities based on their expected  
returns and risk profiles, and we will seek new options  
at the lowest cost, supported by our industry-leading 
exploration capability. 
Consistent with this approach, in 2013 we withdrew from  
the Pebble copper project in Alaska; reduced capital 
expenditure at Platinum, reflecting the industry challenges 
and our review of the assets; and reduced spend on 
longer-dated projects within the Nickel and Iron Ore 
business units. In Peru, the Quellaveco copper project  
was evaluated as part of the Group asset review, which 
resulted in a decision to reconfigure the project so that  
its economic returns are more robust. A final review of the 
project is expected during 2015. During the intervening 
period, work will continue on the project site, aimed  
mainly at progressing the Asana river diversion tunnel,  
along with various social and community programmes, 
thereby solidifying the already high social support for  
the project.
The concept study for the Michiquillay copper project in 
northern Peru was also evaluated within the broader context 
of the Group asset review. Options are currently being 
considered for this project.
As a result of these and other actions, we have identified 
$300 million of savings on an attributable basis in 
exploration and evaluation costs to be delivered by the  
end of 2016, in addition to $252 million of cash from 
non-core asset sales.
Our portfolio of mining and processing assets is chosen for 
the low cost and competitive position of such assets in their 
given market, designed to deliver attractive returns through 
normal commodity price cycles. We have had operations in 
Africa, Australia, and North and South America for many 
years, but we are also building strong commercial 
relationships in Europe and across Asia, including in India, 
China, South Korea and Japan, to strengthen our positions 
now and in the future.
We are widely recognised as industry leaders in discovering 
new assets in addition to investing in existing ones,  
ensuring that we balance the need to grow as a business 
while delivering improving returns to shareholders. We  
take a long term view to managing our assets, continually 
stress-testing our portfolio against investment and 
sustainability criteria to ensure it delivers value and that it 
continues to meet our customers’ needs today, tomorrow 
and into the future.
OUR TARGET FOR 2016
Mining industry returns (return on capital employed,  
or ROCE) have dropped significantly from around  
24% in 2006 to 10% in 2012, despite a relatively positive 
commodity pricing environment over much of the  
period. Although there are many reasons for capital 
employed increasing at a faster rate than earnings, there  
are some common themes across the industry, including: 
over-capitalisation of assets in an attempt to grow 
production at any cost; an active merger and acquisition 
environment when asset prices have been at all-time  
highs; and significant overspend in projects as companies 
try to bring production on stream as fast as possible. 
Anglo American has not been immune to these challenges, 
with the result that our attributable ROCE fell from a 
pre-financial crisis high of over 30%, to as low as 1 1% in 
2012, a situation that is acceptable neither to ourselves  
nor our shareholders. We have, therefore, set ourselves a 
clear target of delivering a minimum attributable ROCE of 
15% by 2016, and have defined a new approach and rigour 
to our capital-allocation process in order to help achieve  
our target.
At Anglo American, we believe that being a  
global diversified mining company provides  
a natural hedge against price volatility and 
geographic pressures, giving us flexibility  
to meet the world’s changing needs. 
22 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PORTFOLIO THE PATHWAY TO 15% ATTRIBUTABLE ROCE
Over the past eight months we have completed a review  
of our asset portfolio and have set out a clear path to  
achieve our targeted 15% attributable ROCE. The chart 
below shows the steps identified to lift attributable ROCE  
(at 30 June 2013 prices and foreign exchange rates)  
from 9% in 2012, to in excess of 15% by 2016.
The impact of our approved major projects coming on 
stream, the operational improvement plans resulting from 
the recent asset review, and our Driving Value programme 
(including the benefits from overhead reduction, 
commercial and supply chain initiatives, and our review of 
the project pipeline) are discussed in more detail on pages 
34–45, within the ‘Performance’ section of this report.
Capital structure and balance sheet
Net assets of the Company totalled $37.4 billion at 
31 December 2013 (31 December 2012: $43.7 billion).  
This decrease resulted from impairments of $2.5 billion,  
the impact of the weaker South African rand and Australian 
dollar of $4.0 billion and depreciation of $2.6 billion, partially 
offset by capital expenditure for the year of $6.3 billion, 
including capitalised interest of $0.3 billion.
Attributable ROCE remained flat at 1 1% as a consequence 
of a higher proportion of operating profit coming from our 
non-wholly owned businesses: Anglo American Platinum; 
De Beers; Anglo American Sur (AA Sur); and Kumba Iron 
Ore. Average attributable capital employed increased to 
$39 billion (2012: $38 billion), due to capital expenditure  
in 2013, partially offset by the weakening of the rand, in 
which 29% of our balance sheet is denominated. With the 
exception of Foxleigh, Peace River Coal and the Barro Alto 
impairment, all impairments and losses on disposal or exit 
have been taken as a reduction to capital employed.
 
 
19%
 
 
 
 
Iron Ore and Manganese
Metallurgical Coal
1%
Thermal Coal
23%
Copper
(1)
25%
Nickel
(2%)
Niobium and Phosphates
24%
11%
6%
Diamonds
Platinum
Group
11%
(1)
 Removing outstanding tax liability balances relating to the AA Sur 
divestment, Copper attributable ROCE would drop to 24%.
The pathway to 15% attributable ROCE 
ROCE (%) / EBIT impact ($ bn)
 (1) (2)
$3.3 bn
2012
 (2)
$0.9 bn
Projects
$1.2 bn
Improvement plans  
(asset review) net of 
headwinds
$1.3 bn  
Driving Value Further benefits  
to be identified
 
2016 target
(1)  
Attributable ROCE defined as operating profit attributable to Anglo American plc shareholders divided by attributable average capital employed. 
(2) 
ROCE and EBIT impact based on commodity prices and exchange rates at 30 June 2013 and including structural changes to portfolio.
2012 and 2016 targets Identified upside Ongoing LoM strategy review
Defined plans Minas-Rio, Boa Vista Fresh Rock, Barro Alto, Cerrejón 
9%
>15%
23
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT Net debt increased by $2,142 million to $10,652 million 
(2012: $8,510 million) and net debt to total capital at 
31 December 2013 was 22.2%, compared with 16.3%  
at 31 December 2012. An analysis of key movements in  
net debt in the year is detailed on page 24–25.
Cash flow from operations
A reconciliation of underlying EBITDA to underlying 
operating profit is provided in note 3 to the financial 
statements. The factors driving the operating results  
of the Group are discussed in the Performance section  
of the annual report on pages 34–45.
The working capital increase of $1,121 million 
(2012: increase of $526 million) represents investment  
in stock of $562 million (2012: increase of $329 million), 
increase in debtors of $541 million (2012: increase of  
$32 million) and a decrease in creditors of $18 million  
(2012: decrease of $165 million).
Within the investment in stock movement, $395 million 
relates to increases in platinum stock owing to the growth  
in precious metal stock holdings to manage business risk 
and an increase in the average stock valuation due to higher 
production costs.
Liquidity and funding
At 31 December 2013, the Group had undrawn committed 
bank facilities of $9.3 billion and cash of $7.7 billion.
The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account  
of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, 
indicate the Group’s ability to operate within the level of  
its current facilities for the foreseeable future.
Net debt
Net debt is a measure of the Group’s financial position.  
The Group uses net debt to monitor the sources and uses  
of financial resources, the availability of capital to invest  
or return to shareholders, and the resilience of the balance 
sheet. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less  
cash and cash equivalents (including derivatives which 
provide an economic hedge of debt and the net debt of 
disposal groups). 
The reconciliation in the table above is the method by  
which management reviews movements in net debt and 
comprises key movements in cash and any significant 
non-cash movements on net debt items.
Net debt
$ million 2013 2012
(1)
Opening net debt (8,510) (1,278)
EBITDA
(2)
8,806 7,867
Working capital movements (1,121) (526)
Other cash flows from operations 44 29
Cash flows from operations 7,729 7,370
Capital expenditure including related derivatives (6,261) (6,030)
Cash tax paid (1,201) (1,799)
Dividends from associates, joint ventures and financial asset investments 264 348
Net interest (533) (348)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (1,159) (1,267)
Attributable free cash flow (1,161) (1,726)
Dividends paid to Company shareholders (1,078) (970)
Tax on sale of non-controlling interest in Anglo American Sur (395) (1,015)
Acquisitions of subsidiaries – (4,816)
Disposals 252 439
Movements in non-controlling interests 71 1,220
Purchase of shares by subsidiaries for employee share schemes (92) (253)
Other net debt movements 261 (111)
Total movement in net debt (2,142) (7,232)
Closing net debt (10,652) (8,510)
(1)  
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 of the financial statements for details.
(2) 
EBITDA is underlying EBITDA, as described in note 3 of the financial statements, less associates and joint ventures.
24 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PORTFOLIO The majority of the remaining stock increases reflect strong 
production performance in the closing months of the year at 
both Kumba Iron Ore and Copper.
The strong production performance in the closing months  
of the year at Kumba Iron Ore and Copper also resulted in 
increased sales, with a resultant increase in debtors of 
$373 million. 
Attributable free cash flow
Attributable free cash flow, as defined in the reconciliation  
of net debt, is a measure of the amount of cash generated  
by the Group’s operations once all disbursements of tax, 
interest and dividends to minority interests have been taken 
into account. 
Cash tax paid has decreased to $1,201 million from 
$1,799 million, owing to tax rebates at both Copper  
and Metallurgical Coal. Copper received a $191 million  
rebate owing to overpayment in the prior tax year, while 
Metallurgical Coal received a net tax refund in 2013  
of $43 million (compared to a net payment in 2012 of  
$330 million) following a reassessment by the Australian 
Tax Office of the tax instalment rate.
Net interest represents interest income less interest 
expense and includes cash flows on financing derivatives. 
The increase was driven by higher interest paid of  
$907 million (2012: $775 million) due to the timing of the 
issue and redemption of corporate bonds as well as the 
acquisition, on 16 August 2012, of $1,581 million of debt  
in De Beers which, even when refinanced by the Group, 
resulted in higher overall debt in 2013.
The majority of dividends paid to non-controlling interests  
of $1,159 million (2012: $1,267 million) were to minority 
shareholders of Copper and Kumba Iron Ore, where 
external dividends of $474 million and $663 million were 
paid respectively (2012: $100 million and $1,120 million).
Other movements
Tax on sale of AA Sur of $395 million (2012: $1,015 million) 
relates to the profit on sale of the 25.4% share in AA Sur. 
Disposals relate mainly to proceeds received in the year 
following the disposal of Palabora, certain De Beers 
investment properties, the formation of the Lafarge  
Tarmac joint venture and Amapá, net of funding provided  
by the Group.
Other net debt movements mainly relate to the Main Street 
preference share structure, which was established to  
provide funding via preference shares for a black economic 
empowerment (BEE) company relating to Sishen Iron Ore 
Company. In November 2013, the preference shares held  
by Anglo American in the company were redeemed for 
$279 million and a mezzanine debt facility of $85 million 
repaid. This resulted in the Group reducing net debt by  
$364 million on the unwinding of the structure.
Evaluation expenditure
Evaluation expenditure decreased by 38% to $326 million, 
driven by reductions in Copper and Nickel, partly offset by 
increases in De Beers following the acquisition of the 
additional interest in August 2012.
Divestment update
On 4 January 2013, Anglo American announced that it had 
reached an agreement to sell its 70% interest in Amapá to 
Zamin Ferrous Ltd (Zamin). Following the 28 March 2013 
major geological event which resulted in the loss of four 
lives, with a further two people still missing, as well as the 
loss of the Santana port operation of Amapá and the 
suspension of all export shipments, Anglo American entered 
into further discussions with its partner Cliffs Natural 
Resources (Cliffs) and Zamin. Anglo American 
subsequently entered into an agreement with Cliffs to 
acquire its 30% interest in Amapá, subject to certain 
conditions, and entered into an amended sale agreement 
with Zamin to reflect Anglo American’s disposal of a 100% 
interest in Amapá to Zamin. 
On 1 November 2013, Anglo American completed the 
acquisition from Cliffs and simultaneously completed the 
sale of the 100% interest in Amapá to Zamin for an initial 
total consideration of approximately $134 million, net of 
certain completion adjustments. In addition, Zamin will pay 
Anglo American conditional deferred consideration of up to 
a maximum of $130 million in total, payable over a five year 
period and calculated on the basis of the market price for 
iron ore. As part of the transaction, Anglo American has 
assumed responsibility for, and the risks and rewards of, 
certain insurance claims including those relating to the 
Santana port incident, through the purchase of the claims 
from Amapá at the full claim value. 
Dividends
Anglo American’s dividend policy is to provide a base 
dividend that will be maintained or increased through  
the cycle. Consistent with the policy, the Board has 
recommended to maintain the final dividend of 53 US cents 
per share, giving a total dividend of 85 US cents per share 
for the year (2012: 85 US cents per share), subject to 
shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting to  
be held on 24 April 2014. The maintenance of the level  
of the dividend reflects the Board’s confidence in the 
underlying business. This recommendation is consistent 
with the commitment to have a disciplined balance between 
the maintenance of a strong investment grade rating, 
returns to shareholders and sequencing of future 
investment in line with resulting funding capacity. From  
time to time, any cash surplus to requirements will be 
returned to shareholders.
Outlook
Cash capital expenditure is expected to be between  
$7.0 billion and $7.5 billion in 2014. Net debt is expected  
to continue to rise in 2014, as expenditure on the Group’s 
projects more than offsets cash generated from operations. 
25
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT “ Our new organisation aims to create an environment  
in which we are all able to work more effectively and 
efficiently. By creating a meritocracy in which each and 
every employee is encouraged to strive to reach their 
potential, we hope to unlock significant value.”
Mervyn Walker, Group Director  
Human Resources and Corporate Affairs
REDESIGNING OUR ORGANISATION
The aim of the new organisation design is to ensure we have the right 
people in the right roles doing the right work. The resulting structure will  
be more effective, allowing greater clarity on roles and accountabilities 
while also removing unnecessary work and duplication. 
The first aspect of the new organisation was announced in July 2013, with 
the creation of two new commodity groups; Base Metals and Minerals – 
made up of the newly integrated Nickel, Niobium and Phosphates business, 
and Copper; and Coal – comprising Thermal Coal and Metallurgical Coal. 
These businesses have been brought together to realise the synergies 
available from having either geographical or operational similarities. 
We reduced the number of direct reports to the chief executive from  
15 to 1 1. The new Group Management Committee (GMC) was expanded  
to incorporate the chief executive and his direct reports. The GMC is 
supported by two sub-committees (Corporate and Operating) with 
delegated authorities.
By the end of 2013, we had appointed senior management roles  
across the corporate centres and have been designing proposals for  
the remaining structures and roles. We plan to complete the design 
implementation in 2014.
ORGANISED TO 
REALISE OUR 
POTENTIAL
STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PEOPLE
26 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Operations visited
In his first eight months in the role, new  
chief executive Mark Cutifani met and  
spoke with most of Anglo American’s top  
400 managers, as well as several hundred 
employees, corporate office staff and mine 
operators. During the year, he visited all of  
our major operations and projects, travelling  
to Australia, Brazil, Chile, Peru, Botswana,  
South Africa, Canada, Singapore and China.
Pillars of value:
  
Safety and Health
  
Socio-political
  
People
For more on Pillars of value and our KPIs
See pages 14–15 and 18–19
Group Management Committee
Kumba Iron Ore
Norman 
Mbazima
Iron Ore Brazil
Paulo Castellari-
Porchia
Coal
Seamus French
Base Metals  
and Minerals
Duncan Wanblad
Platinum
Chris Griffith
De Beers
Philippe Mellier
Executive  
Director RSA
Khanyisile 
Kweyama
Human  
Resources and 
Corporate Affairs
Mervyn Walker
Technical
Tony O’Neill
Strategy, Business  
Development  
and Commercial
Peter Whitcutt
Finance
René Médori
Image  
Mark Cutifani meets Quellaveco community 
relations manager Francisco Raunelli during  
a recent visit to the Quellaveco copper project  
in southern Peru.
Chief Executive
Mark Cutifani
Strategic report
27 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 PROVIDING 
OPPORTUNITIES
Our approach to the organisation redesign began with  
a team of organisational design experts conducting over  
350 reviews to understand the current nature and extent  
of work being done across the business – hearing first hand 
what our employees feel impedes their ability to contribute 
to our overall business effectiveness. Establishing this ‘as is’ 
inventory has informed GMC debate on the work that is 
important to us, and where this work is best carried out –  
this forms the cornerstone of our organisational model.
With the model agreed, organisation structures have been 
aligned with this, as well as with our organisation design 
principles – an approach that is grounded in stratified 
systems theory and other proven frameworks and models.
We aim to implement the majority of proposed changes to 
structures and roles for the in-scope areas in 2014.
Talent management and skills development 
To attract and retain the best talent, we seek to offer safe, 
worthwhile and stimulating work, provide opportunities for 
personal development, pay people competitively, recognise 
and reward excellence, encourage diversity and protect 
employee rights. Our approach is underpinned by our 
human resources (HR) standards, management systems 
and processes. 
During the year, voluntary turnover accounted for 2.0%  
of the total workforce, in comparison with 2.4% in 2012.
Our Group-wide performance management process and 
system aligns individual objectives with the company’s 
strategy. We continue to embed the People Development 
Way, our global capability framework detailing the 
behaviours, knowledge, skills and experience required  
of our employees to achieve our strategic objectives. In 
conjunction with this, a range of functional ‘People Ways’ 
have been introduced, to outline the specific capabilities 
required in different specialisms across the organisation.
Providing high quality training is a key attraction and 
retention tool. During the year we supported 2,974 
graduates, bursars, apprentices and other trainees  
(2012: 2,845).
Guided by our values – safety, care and respect, integrity, 
accountability, collaboration, innovation – our people apply 
their skills, knowledge and expertise to ensure we operate 
successfully and responsibly. They develop trusting and 
respectful relationships with communities, governments, 
suppliers, partners and peers to ensure that we deliver on 
our promises.
In return, we reward and recognise our people, supporting 
them in their careers and providing opportunities to help 
them develop and grow. 
THE RIGHT PEOPLE IN THE RIGHT JOBS
A key enabler in the implementation of our business strategy 
is the design of organisational structures, roles and systems 
that support our business objectives.
We have for some time been reviewing our organisational 
model and structures. Following the arrival of Mark Cutifani 
as chief executive in April 2013, this work culminated in:
 • bringing Business Unit CEOs into the Group Management 
Committee (GMC), previously comprised only of the 
Group Directors of functions, and so collapsing the 
two-tier executive governance structure that preceded it;
 • the decision to bring together our Thermal and 
Metallurgical Coal businesses to realise further  
technical synergies; 
 • the move to integrate our Nickel, and Niobium and 
Phosphates businesses in Brazil and to locate their head 
office in Belo Horizonte, seeking to realise performance 
and efficiency improvements for these businesses;
 • the grouping of our Copper, Nickel, and Niobium and 
Phosphates businesses to form Base Metals and  
Minerals – a regional grouping of commodities aimed  
at transforming the performance of the underlying 
businesses;
 • centralising, and further advancing, our  
Commercial activity; and
 • the decision to redesign our Group and business  
unit corporate centres.
(1)
The aim of our redesign is to increase the organisation’s 
effectiveness by prioritising work that adds value, removing 
any duplication of work and implementing an organisation 
design that creates clarity as to our business priorities, the 
work and authorities of each role, and the requirements of 
role incumbents. The resultant organisation provides the 
minimum amount of structure needed to support productive 
work and so, by placing the right employees in the right 
roles, empowers them to help reach their full potential.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
%
South Africa  99,500
Brazil  23,600
Other Africa  13,100
Chile  10,800
Australia/Asia  6,800
Europe  2,100
North America 1,600
Other South America 1,400
Total   158,900
63
15
8
7
4
1
1
1
100
Assets alone do not generate value. It is our 
people who are inspired to deliver sustainable 
value that makes a real difference.
(1) 
With the exception of De Beers (given its integration into the Anglo American  
Group in 2013), Iron Ore Brazil (for its project structure), and Platinum (following  
the portfolio restructuring conducted in 2013).
(2) 
Average number of employees and contractors, excluding employees and 
contractors from non-managed operations and our Other Mining and Industrial 
business unit.
28 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PEOPLE Formal learning is delivered at both business unit and  
Group level, with external training expenditure across  
Anglo American amounting to $104 million, 2% of total 
employee costs in 2013 (2012: $98 million, 3% of total 
employee costs).
We focus on and continuously review high quality leadership 
development and have a range of more than 200 external 
and internal development programmes currently in use 
across the Group. Our flagship development programmes, 
the ‘Advanced Management Programme’ and ‘Leaders in 
Anglo American’, were refreshed in 2013 to incorporate 
latest leadership thinking. We have made significant 
progress in providing basic literacy and numeracy to our 
employees, contractors and community members through 
adult basic education and training programmes. In addition, 
we provide skills training that is transferable to industries 
outside of mining. 
A diverse workforce
By year end, 23% of managers were women  
(2012: 23%), with 16% of our overall workforce being 
female (2012: 15%). Across our businesses, targets  
have been set to increase further female representation, 
both within the management population and the 
workforce as a whole.
In our South African operations we continued to promote 
transformation in the workforce. By year end, 64%  
of our management were ‘historically disadvantaged  
South Africans’ (HDSAs) (2012: 62%). 
Fostering sound industrial relations
Approximately 91% of our permanent workforce is 
represented by work councils, trade unions or other similar 
bodies and covered by collective bargaining agreements.
Building and maintaining sound relationships with our 
employees and trade unions is fostered through: 
 • a culture of inclusivity and a genuine concern for the 
well-being of our employees, partners and communities;
 • ongoing, open and meaningful dialogue, ensuring that 
relevant changes to the organisation or its practices are 
tabled with trade unions for discussion prior to their 
implementation and that, in turn, any employee concerns 
are brought for discussion within the organisation before 
they become the subject of disputes; and,
 • our appreciation that many of the issues of concern to our 
employees also affect the mining sector generally and, 
sometimes, society as a whole.
Protecting labour rights
As signatories to the United Nations Global Compact,  
we are committed to the labour rights principles provided  
in the International Labour Organisation core conventions, 
including the right to freedom of association and  
collective bargaining, the eradication of child and forced 
labour and non-discrimination. We do not tolerate any  
form of unfair discrimination, inhumane treatment, forced 
labour, child labour, harassment or intimidation in the  
Anglo American workplace. 
Full observance of these issues is also required of our 
suppliers in tenders and compliance is audited. At our 
operations, we have clear policies and processes in place  
in order to ensure that we do not employ any under-age or 
forced labour. No incidents of employing under-age or 
forced labour were reported in 2013.
Health and safety
Managing mine safety risks has always been challenging. 
Our main priority is to prevent loss of life and serious injuries 
by creating safe and healthy work environments. Our safety 
strategy and management approach focus on improving  
our ability to anticipate and prevent harm to our people, and 
reduce safety-related stoppages at operations.
L TIFR
L TIFR Lost-time injuries
Total number of lost-time injuries and lost-time 
injury frequency rate 2009–2013
   
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Lost-time injuries
FIFR
FIFR Fatalities
Total number of fatal injuries and fatal injury 
frequency rate 2009–2013
   
0
10
5
15
20
25
30
0
0.006
0.004
0.002
0.008
0.010
0.012
0.014
0.016
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Fatalities
29
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT In 2013, eight employees and six contractors lost their  
lives while working for Anglo American. This includes two 
employees and two contractors who lost their lives at the 
Santana port of Amapá in Brazil following the destruction  
of a seaborne iron ore loading platform as a result of a 
geological incident.
(1)
 The Group fatal-injury frequency  
rate at the end of 2013 was 0.008, (2012: 0.007). Our  
total recordable case frequency rate improved by 16%  
year on year to 1.08 in 2013, and by 40% since 2009.  
At 0.49, the Group’s annual lost-time injury frequency  
rate is at its lowest since listing on the London Stock 
Exchange, reflecting considerable progress at the  
Platinum, Metallurgical Coal and De Beers businesses. 
Our occupational health strategy and management 
approach is governed through a series of standards, 
guidelines and assurance processes aimed at preventing 
harm to our workforce. Our principal health risks relate  
to noise, inhalable hazards and fatigue. Our health and 
wellness programmes include the provision of care and 
treatment for HIV/AIDS and TB, as well as support against 
obesity, substance abuse, and for general well-being. 
Another strategic focus is strengthening healthcare systems 
in under-serviced rural areas and building partnerships to 
improve access to quality healthcare. 
Most regrettably, during 2013, 63 employees died from  
TB (2012: 59). We also diagnosed 734 new TB infections 
(2012: 677 cases), giving an annual incidence rate of 1,066 
per 100,000 population, though this rate is in line with the 
national average and below the industry average. In 
southern Africa, the percentage of estimated HIV-positive 
employees enrolled on our treatment programme has 
increased steadily from 61% in 201 1 to 75% in 2013. Since 
201 1, the estimated prevalence of HIV infection in our 
workforce in southern Africa has remained steady at around 
17%, indicating that about 1 1,200 of our employees there 
are HIV-positive. The annual voluntary counselling and 
testing (VCT) rate dropped from 82% in 2012 to 75% in 
2013, reflecting the impact of labour unrest in the year.
The reduction in the number of new cases of occupational 
disease recorded over the past few years reversed in  
2013, owing to an increase in cases of noise-induced 
hearing loss (NIHL) reported at Platinum in South Africa  
and Metallurgical Coal in Australia. The total of new cases  
of occupational diseases in 2013 was 209 (2012: 174).  
A major focus for the business continues to be the 
elimination of exposure to noise.
In South Africa, we continue to work with the provincial 
health departments in the Eastern Cape, Mpumalanga, 
Northern Cape and North West provinces, which are 
associated with our operations or are labour-sending  
areas, in order to improve health services. In Brazil,  
we have a highly effective partnership with the NGO 
Reprolatina in providing sexual and reproductive health 
counselling to several communities.
MANAGING SLOPE  
STABILITY RISK
Effective management of slope stability related risks  
is a fundamental part of a successful mining operation. 
Predicting potential slope failure in open pit mines is 
integral to maintaining safety and mine productivity. 
Anglo American’s open pit mines implement best 
practice slope monitoring programmes that are linked 
to mine operational and emergency procedures. 
In June 2012, a slope collapse at Debswana’s* Jwaneng 
diamond mine in Botswana tragically claimed the life of 
an employee. The company suspended mining activities 
for seven weeks to ensure the safety of all employees 
and to allow the Department of Mines to carry out an 
investigation. All investigations were concluded in 
2013, and subsequently, Jwaneng mine extensively 
reviewed and strengthened its approach to managing 
slope stability related risks. 
The enhanced risk management approach ensured  
that the mine picked up the first signs of slope  
instability at the beginning of October 2013. Monitoring 
systems accurately predicted the time of failure and 
approximately 700,000 tonnes of waste came down. 
The failure occurred without any safety incidents, with 
all personnel and equipment safely evacuated four 
hours earlier. In 2013, a Group open pit slope 
monitoring strategy was developed and all our open  
pit operations are reviewing their slope monitoring 
programmes to ensure compliance. 
* Debswana is a 50:50 joint operation between De Beers and the 
Government of the Republic of Botswana.
Image
 A ground stability radar unit deployed  
at Jwaneng diamond mine in Botswana.
Pillars of value:
For more on Pillars of value and our KPIs
See pages 14–15 and 18–19
(1) 
An additional two employees involved in the incident remain unaccounted for and 
have not, at this stage, been formally declared deceased by the local authorities.
30 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PEOPLE INTEGRATING EMPLOYEE 
HOUSING INTO THE 
COMMUNITY
Kumba Iron Ore’s Kolomela mine at Postmasburg  
in Northern Cape province, South Africa, was 
completed at the end of 2011, reaching full capacity  
in 2013, with 840 permanent employees. The  
mine’s integration within the existing community  
is fundamental in delivering a long term positive  
impact and legacy after mine closure.
In designing the new mine, we took the opportunity  
to lead by example with our housing programme for 
employees. We engaged with the local authorities  
and were allocated land for housing development in 
three residential areas of Postmasburg. In return, the 
company committed to investing in building much-
needed bulk infrastructure services to support the 
upliftment of the impoverished community and boost 
socio-economic development.
The housing project is designed to ensure that both 
management and lower level employees have access  
to similar housing and are not living in separate areas  
of the new accommodation complex as often incurred  
in older mines with segregated mining towns. By the 
end of 2013, 718 homes for Kolomela employees had 
been completed, with close to half of these employees 
coming from the local area. The houses differ in size, 
but are uniform in quality and finish. The average age  
of the employees is 30 and most are first-time house 
occupants. The houses remain assets of the mine, with 
each employee receiving a housing benefit and paying 
rates and taxes.
Image
 Rebaone and Caroline Matloko live in one of the new houses  
in Postmasburg built for Kolomela iron ore mine. Rebaone is  
a haul truck operator at the mine.
WORKING WITH STAKEHOLDERS
Our ability to create a sustainable business is inextricably 
linked to our stakeholders – most directly with our 
employees and the communities around our operations,  
but, equally, with the stakeholders who indirectly affect,  
or are affected by, what we do, including governments and 
shareholders, as well as partners and suppliers. To create 
shared value for all our stakeholders, we must understand 
their needs, concerns and aspirations, as well as the 
sustainability risks affecting our business, and consider 
them in our decision-making processes as we develop new 
mines and continue to improve our existing operations.
Our overarching aim is to mitigate the negative impacts  
of our activities and to take advantage of opportunities  
that deliver long term benefits to our stakeholders.
Our thorough internal understanding of operational risks 
has been strengthened by research into issues that are most 
important to our stakeholders. This includes collating the 
results of our regular engagements with stakeholders and 
conducting selected surveys to establish the perspectives  
of governments, communities and investors. 
We are committed to working with government, business 
and civil society to promote good governance and the 
responsible use of mineral wealth, and to prevent corruption. 
Finding solutions to increasingly complex societal 
challenges requires meaningful collaboration between 
business, government, civil society, labour and research 
bodies. We place a strong emphasis, therefore, on 
developing partnerships with a broad range of stakeholders.
Social investment output indicators
Total number of community development 
projects delivering benefits to communities  
in 2013
1,447
Total number of businesses supported 48,111
Jobs created/maintained through enterprise  
development initiatives
76,543
Beneficiaries of education projects 2,697,933
Beneficiaries of sports, arts, culture and 
heritage projects
340,015
Beneficiaries of community development 
projects
2,628,455
Beneficiaries of disaster and emergency 
relief projects
6,966
Beneficiaries with improved livelihood 259,050
Pillars of value:
For more on Pillars of value and our KPIs
See pages 14–15 and 18–19
31
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT Our approach
Anglo American’s social performance strategy focuses  
on observing human rights, proactive engagement with  
our stakeholders and leveraging our core business to 
support long term socio-economic development. 
We place considerable emphasis on integrating social 
considerations into each stage of the mining life cycle,  
as well as on enhancing the expertise of our social and 
community development specialists and the social 
awareness of line managers. All operations are required  
to develop Social Management Plans to manage risks and 
impacts. Human rights requirements are integrated into  
the Social Way and all other relevant policies, systems and 
tools throughout the business. Our approach is aligned with 
the ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy’ framework provided in 
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Our businesses measure compliance against the 
requirements of the Social Way through annual self-
assessment. Social incidents are reported centrally, 
investigated, and corrective actions are completed where 
appropriate. In 2013, 98% of sites complied with, or 
exceeded, the requirements of Anglo American standards. 
There were no serious non-compliances.
Complaints and grievances
Our mandatory Group-wide complaints and grievances 
mechanism is designed to ensure openness, accountability 
and respectfulness in our handling of any stakeholder 
complaints. The facility is a confidential and secure means 
for our local communities and other external stakeholders  
to raise concerns. All submissions are reviewed and 
responses provided and, where necessary, mitigating 
actions are implemented. 
In addition, at Group level we run an anonymous tip-off 
procedure, called ‘Speak Up’. Speak Up allows communities, 
employees, contractors, suppliers, business partners and 
other stakeholders to report concerns about conduct that is 
contrary to our Business Principles, corporate values and 
Business Integrity standards. Disciplinary proceedings, 
including termination, are instituted where employees are 
found to have behaved contrary to our principles. In 2013, 
there were no criminal cases regarding bribery brought 
against Anglo American or any of its employees.
Responsible supply chain management
Our supplier sustainable development assurance 
programme addresses adherence to local legislative 
requirements and best practices in areas including safety, 
the environment, business integrity, human rights and  
HIV management. Since the scheme commenced in 2009, 
we have conducted a series of audits on high risk suppliers 
identified across the world. A risk based approach is 
followed to identify suppliers to be audited, with a focus on 
small and medium enterprises, and we conduct follow-up 
audits to assess progress against improvement plans. 
Engaging with stakeholders
Continuously improving and maintaining positive 
relationships with our stakeholders is one of our principal 
priorities. We believe that establishing relationships built  
on trust is fundamental to our ability to create value, but 
recognise that many stakeholders currently have low levels 
of trust in business generally.
We rely on various channels of engagement with each of  
our main stakeholder groups, in order to facilitate open 
dialogue and identify principal concerns and interests. Our 
principal external stakeholder groups are governments, 
shareholders, trade unions, suppliers, joint venture and 
other strategic business partners, customers, investors,  
and our host communities. Other important groups include 
business partners, multilateral organisations, NGOs, our 
business peers and academia. 
Our engagement with governments include face-to-face 
meetings with government representatives, open dialogue 
and ongoing advocacy work through industry bodies,  
as well as participation in inter-governmental and  
multilateral processes. 
With our host communities, our industry-leading Socio-
Economic Assessment Toolbox (SEAT) is our primary 
means to improve operations’ understanding of their 
socio-economic impacts (both positive and negative), 
enhance stakeholder dialogue and the management of 
social issues, build our ability to support local socio-
economic development, and foster greater transparency 
and accountability. We update SEAT as our social 
performance capability improves and stakeholder 
expectations evolve.
While the specific interests and concerns of our 
stakeholders typically vary by stakeholder group and  
region, an issue that received particular attention during  
the year concerned reinforcing our relationship with the 
South African government following the industrial unrest  
in 2012. In turn, we have enhanced our involvement with 
communities around our Rustenburg mines as well as  
those in Limpopo. We are also engaging more closely  
with investors, under the leadership of chief executive  
Mark Cutifani, on the progressive business turnaround.
Managing our social performance 
Our most significant social risks and opportunities fall  
into two categories: our impact on host communities and 
society more broadly; and the risks to our business that  
arise from wider societal expectations and social tension  
in communities. 
32 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PEOPLE Community development
Our community development activities prioritise extending 
benefits associated with our core activities to those 
associated with our operations. This includes local 
workforce development, local procurement and supplier 
development, enterprise development, the beneficial use  
of mine infrastructure and building the capacity of local 
partners such as municipalities. Critical needs that are not 
linked to core business activities and infrastructure, such as 
health, education and community housing, are addressed 
through our social investment programme. 
Local procurement
Our local procurement initiatives are a principal value  
driver for the business and for communities around our 
operations. These initiatives aim to create opportunities  
for local suppliers to provide high quality goods and services 
to support our mining activities. The inclusion of small,  
medium and micro enterprises in our value chain is a  
critical priority as this serves to create thriving and fulfilled 
communities. In 2013, expenditure with suppliers based in  
the communities close to our operations was $1.63 billion 
(2012: $1.54 billion). This represented 12.3% of total 
supplier expenditure (2012: 1 1.3%), against a Group target 
of 12.5%.
Economic transformation is a particular priority in our  
South African operations, forming an important part of  
our contribution to the country’s drive to promote black 
economic empowerment (BEE). In 2013, Anglo American 
managed businesses spent $3.9 billion (2012: $3.1 billion) 
with HDSA businesses (excluding goods and services 
procured from the public sector and public enterprises). 
Enterprise development
Enterprise development is one of the most effective  
means of ensuring that the benefits for host communities 
arising out of mining activities will be sustainable. Our 
enterprise development programmes are designed to 
support communities in identifying business opportunities, 
developing them, with the aim of their ultimately becoming 
independent. They aim to create more stable host 
communities and a more robust and competitive supply 
chain. Over the past five years, our existing schemes in 
South Africa and Chile have supported more than 75,000 
jobs. In 2013, we launched new schemes in Botswana and 
Brazil and early in 2014 we launched a scheme in Peru.
Infrastructure development
Working with partners to provide infrastructure that can be 
put to use during and after mining activities are completed  
is an important way in which we create sustainable value for 
our host communities. Our mines are often situated in areas 
that are underdeveloped and remote, where we can share 
infrastructure – such as roads, health facilities and water – 
with local communities.
In South Africa, where there is a shortage of affordable 
housing and long waiting lists for units being built, we are 
helping to alleviate this problem in partnership with local  
and provincial government. 
 
%
Community  47,719
development
Education and training 31,178
Health and welfare 13,773
Other 11,936
Sports, arts, culture  6,596
and heritage
Institutional  6,268
capacity development 
Water and sanitation 5,708
Environment 3,378
Employee match giving 735
Disaster and  166
emergency relief
Energy and  17
climate change 
Total   127,474
$’000
37
24
11
9
5
5
4
3
1
0
0
100
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
%
South Africa 76,529
Chile  17,162
Peru 10,164
Brazil  6,904
Canada  6,665
Rest of World 3,394
Nambia 2,880
Australia  1,169
Zimbabwe 1,107
United Kingdom 847
Botswana  653
Total   127,474
60
13
8
5
5
3
2
1
1
1
1
100
$’000
Building local capacity
Our capacity development activities focus on strengthening 
the skills, competencies and abilities of employees and 
community members to promote robust, self-sufficient  
local economies long after our mines have closed. This 
included spending $3.1 million towards institutional capacity 
development in 2013 (2012: $1.9 million), often partnering 
with local municipalities on projects. In South Africa, limited 
or low capacity in municipalities potentially jeopardises our 
ability to deliver on social and labour plan commitments and 
promote broader social stability. 
Corporate social investment
Anglo American’s corporate social investment (CSI) 
expenditure in local communities totalled $127.5 million 
(2012: $145.7 million). This figure represents 2.2% of 
operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures,  
before tax. 
33
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT OPTIMISING EVERY 
ASPECT OF OUR 
PERFORMANCE
“ The outstanding efforts of the Moranbah North 
longwall team are a great indicator of the potential  
to drive business value. The results speak for 
themselves and are a demonstration of what can  
be achieved when we understand what world  
class performance looks like, and apply it to our 
equipment. Our Grosvenor longwall mine is currently 
under construction next to Moranbah North and 
these improvements augur well for its capabilities.”
Seamus French  
CEO, Metallurgical Coal
Image  
Operations scheduler 
Larnie Mackay, 
operations manager 
Andy Morris and 
engineering 
maintenance manager 
Paul Stephen monitor 
longwall operations  
on a ‘smart board’ at 
Moranbah North.
SHARING PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT  
LESSONS AT METALLURGICAL COAL
Moranbah North, our metallurgical coal mine situated in 
Australia’s Bowen Basin, is an early adopter of the business 
process changes we are currently driving across the Group.
Following a period of underperformance at the mine, 
management implemented a number of processes to 
address the operational issues that were impacting  
longwall cutting hours and, consequently, production.
Critical to turning around production was the careful  
planning of work schedules, ensuring every mine employee 
knew what work was required of them and that they were 
accountable for delivering to plan. By continually monitoring 
performance against plan and implementing incremental 
operational improvements, the team at Moranbah North 
have raised longwall cutting hours from 57 hours per week  
in 2008 to an average of over 85 hours per week in 2013,  
and it continues to improve in 2014.
Process improvements at Moranbah North are now  
being replicated at Metallurgical Coal’s Grasstree mine. 
34 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PERFORMANCE INCREASE IN SALEABLE 
PRODUCTION IN 2013 VS 2012 
39%
REDUCTION IN LTIs IN 2013 VS 2012 
61%
MINE LIFE 
19 years
OWNERSHIP (% ANGLO AMERICAN)
88%
At Anglo American, we are resolute 
in our belief that a safe operation  
is a productive operation, as 
demonstrated by the significant 
safety, productivity and cost 
improvements at Moranbah North. 
Since 2010, lost-time injuries have 
fallen by 86%, while FOB unit costs 
decreased by 34%. 
Pillars of value:
  
Environmental
  
Production
  
Cost
  
Financial
For more on Pillars of value and our KPIs
See pages 14–15 and 18–19
1,000
Longwall production tonnes (’000)  
  
$/T (FOB)
0
200
600
400
800
150
0
25
100
50
125
75
July 12 Jan 13 Dec 13
T otal $/T FOB (excl. royalty)/Saleable production
Longwall production tonnes (1 L W)
Longwall 
move
H2 2012 L TIs = 9 H1 2013 L TIs = 5 H2 2013 L TIs = 4
Operating and financial review Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 35 OPERATING SAFELY AND RESPONSIBLY 
TO DELIVER SUSTAINABLE VALUE
 • commercial opportunities – the adoption of a more 
commercial approach to marketing our products, while 
reducing our delivery and associated operating costs, will 
help improve our margins and should deliver $400 million 
attributable EBIT improvements by 2016;
 • supply chain opportunities – we continue to identify 
benefits from our procurement function and estimate  
we can reduce our costs by a further $100 million on an 
attributable basis by 2016;
 • overheads – we have reviewed our individual businesses 
and corporate centres and have identified sustainable cost 
reductions that would support $500 million attributable 
EBIT improvement by 2016;
 • project pipeline – we have refined our capital allocation 
process and the way we manage early stage projects 
through the pipeline. Consequently, we see an opportunity 
to reduce costs by $300 million per year on an attributable 
basis. Further details on our capital allocation and project 
approval process can be found in the Portfolio section of 
this annual report on pages 20–25.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE  
IN THE YEAR
Group results
Anglo American reported underlying earnings of $2.7 billion 
(2012: $2.9 billion), with underlying operating profit 
increasing by 6% to $6.6 billion. 
Underlying operating profit increased owing to De Beers 
contributing for a full year as a subsidiary, improved sales  
at both Copper and Platinum and the weakening of the 
South African rand, partially offset by lower prices across 
the majority of our commodities.
The Group’s results are affected by currency fluctuations  
in the countries where the operations are based. The 
strengthening of the US dollar against the rand and the 
Australian dollar resulted in a $1,700 million positive 
exchange variance in underlying operating profit compared 
with 2012. CPI inflation had a negative $595 million impact 
on underlying operating profit compared with the prior year. 
Sales volumes were relatively flat compared with 2012,  
with the exception of Copper, where sales increased by 
124,600 tonnes to 768,200 tonnes.
Industry-wide, above-CPI cost pressures continued, 
particularly in South Africa and Australia, although these 
were mitigated by the continued positive performance of 
our business improvement and procurement programmes.
Group underlying earnings were 7% lower at $2,673 million, 
despite the increase in operating profit, owing to the 
increased contribution from our non- 100% owned 
operations, i.e. De Beers, Kumba Iron Ore, AA Sur and  
Anglo American Platinum.
Safety remains our first priority and we strive every day  
to achieve zero harm in the workplace and beyond. 
We recognise our responsibility to preserve and, where 
possible, enhance, the natural resources we use at our 
operations, such as land, water and energy. 
We are disciplined in how we run our business, with a focus 
on consistent delivery and strong financial returns. Starting 
with clear and realistic expectations, we plan appropriately 
and then rigorously put those plans into action, measuring 
and analysing successes and failures to learn from both. 
The Group’s technical mining expertise, allied to the  
ability to tailor products to customers’ exacting 
requirements, provides a foundation to deliver financially 
stable business outcomes.
DELIVERING ON OUR POTENTIAL
At Anglo American, we have set ourselves a demanding  
but achievable target of delivering at least a 15% attributable 
return on capital employed (ROCE) by 2016. We have 
initiated a change programme, Driving Value, across the 
Group that will help us identify the opportunities to realise 
significant further value from our assets.
Over the past nine months, we have conducted a thorough 
and comprehensive review of each of our operating assets. 
As a result, we now have a clear understanding of what 
improvements need to be made to ensure we can deliver  
a more stable operational performance and, hence, drive 
improved margins and returns, across the portfolio.
The business improvement opportunities and individual 
elements to Driving Value we have identified to support the 
required EBIT uplift include:
 • existing projects – the delivery of planned projects should 
result in a $0.9 billion attributable EBIT improvement by 
2016. The major projects underpinning this improvement 
are the Minas-Rio iron ore project, the Boa Vista Fresh 
Rock project at our Niobium business and the rebuilding  
of the Barro Alto furnaces at our Nickel business;
 • operations initiatives – through the asset review process, 
we have identified a range of operational improvements 
we believe can deliver $1.2 billion attributable EBIT  
by 2016, after taking into account material risks and 
negative operating conditions that may be experienced. 
The improvements include: increasing extraction rates  
and plant throughput at Los Bronces; redesigning the pit at 
Sishen to optimise ore extraction; continuing the longwall 
performance improvements at Moranbah North and 
applying what we have learned there at other coal longwall  
operations;
Ultimately, it is our ability to deliver value at  
every stage from discovery to market in a safe 
and responsible way that will determine the 
sustainability of our business.
36 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PERFORMANCE Summary income statement
$ million
Year ended  
31 Dec 2013
Year ended  
31 Dec 2012
restated
(1)
Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint operations before special items and remeasurements 6,168 5,493
Operating special items (3,211) (6,977)
Operating remeasurements (550) (116)
Operating profit/(loss) from subsidiaries and joint operations 2,407 (1,600)
Non-operating special items and remeasurements (469) 1,396
Share of net income from associates and joint ventures (see reconciliation below) 168 421
Total profit from operations, associates and joint ventures 2,106 217
Net finance costs before remeasurements (276) (299)
Financing remeasurements (130) (89)
Profit/(loss) before tax 1,700 (171)
Income tax expense (1,274) (393)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 426 (564)
(Profit)/loss to non-controlling interests (1,387) (906)
Loss for the financial period attributable to equity shareholders of the Company (961) (1,470)
Basic earnings per share ($) (0.75) (1.17)
Group operating profit including associates and joint ventures before special items and 
remeasurements
(2)
6,620 6,253
Operating profit from associates and joint ventures before special items and remeasurements 452 760
Special items and remeasurements (80) (57)
Net finance costs (before special items and remeasurements) (36) (75)
Income tax expense (after special items and remeasurements) (155) (200)
Non-controlling interests (after special items and remeasurements) (13) (7)
Share of net income from associates and joint ventures 168 421
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Operating profit before special items and remeasurements from subsidiaries and joint operations was $6,168 million (2012: $5,493 million) and  
attributable share from associates was $452 million (2012: $760 million). For special items and remeasurements, see note 6 to the financial statements.
Actual 2012  6,253
6,620
(1,657) Price 
1,700 Exchange 
Actual 2013 
(79)
Other 
285
Cash cost 
713
Volume 
(595)
CPI 
Reconciliation of loss for the year 
to underlying earnings 
$ m
Loss for the year (961)
2,673
3,291
Operating special items 
550 Operating remeasurements
Underlying earnings
(216) Non-controlling interests on special items
(590) Special items and remeasurements tax
130
Financing remeasurements
469
Non-operating special items
37
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT Niobium and Phosphates delivered a combined 
underlying operating profit of $150 million, a decrease  
of 1 1%, mainly driven by lower phosphate prices.
Platinum generated an underlying operating profit  
of $464 million (2012: loss of $120 million) as a result  
of increased production and sales and a weaker rand,  
partly offset by weaker prices.
Diamonds generated an underlying operating profit of 
$1,003 million, a 1 12% increase, reflecting the Group’s 
increased shareholding, together with improved prices, 
largely owing to the product mix, and a weaker rand. 
Other Mining and Industrial reported an underlying 
operating loss of $13 million, a $181 million decrease,  
owing to a nil contribution from Scaw South Africa (which  
was divested in November 2012), a weaker market at the 
Lafarge Tarmac joint venture, and the Amapá operation  
not benefiting from the reversal of penalty provisions, as it 
had in 2012.
Corporate costs considered to be value adding to the 
business units are allocated to each business unit. Costs 
reported externally as Group corporate costs only comprise 
costs associated with parental or direct shareholder  
related activities. Corporate costs decreased by 12%,  
partly driven by the positive impact of the weaker rand.
 
Underlying operating profit
$ million
Year ended  
31 Dec 2013
Year ended 
31 Dec 2012
(1)
Iron Ore and Manganese 3,119 3,011
Metallurgical Coal 46 405
Thermal Coal 541 793
Copper 1,739 1,736
Nickel (44) 26
Niobium and Phosphates 150 169
Platinum 464 (120)
Diamonds 1,003 474
Other Mining and Industrial (13) 168
Exploration (207) (206)
Corporate activities and 
unallocated costs
(178) (203)
Operating profit including 
associates and joint ventures 
before special items and 
remeasurements 6,620 6,253
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new 
accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
Special items and remeasurements, after tax and  
non-controlling interests, include: impairments relating  
to Barro Alto ($0.7 billion), Michiquillay ($0.3 billion)  
and Foxleigh ($0.2 billion); loss on disposal of Amapá  
($0.1 billion) and exit from Pebble ($0.3 billion); and 
increased onerous contract provisions at Callide  
($0.3 billion). Full details of the special items and 
remeasurements charges are in note 6 to the  
financial statements.
Net finance costs, before remeasurements, and  
excluding associates and joint ventures, were $276 million 
(2012: $299 million), lower than 2012, owing to increased 
capitalised interest and a gain on fair value hedges, partly 
offset by increased net debt levels in the year.
The effective rate of tax, before special items and 
remeasurements and including attributable share of 
associates’ and joint ventures’ tax, increased from 29%  
in 2012 to 32%. The increase is due to the impact of various 
prior year adjustments and the remeasurement of certain 
withholding tax provisions across the Group. In future 
periods the effective tax rate is expected to remain above 
the United Kingdom statutory tax rate.
Group underlying earnings per share were $2.09 compared 
with $2.28 in 2012.
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
Iron Ore and Manganese generated an underlying 
operating profit of $3,1 19 million, a 4% increase. Kumba Iron 
Ore’s underlying operating profit of $3,047 million closely 
matched the previous year’s owing to slightly higher average 
prices and the impact of the weaker rand, partially offset  
by a decrease in export sales volumes. Samancor reported  
a more than doubling in underlying operating profit of  
$210 million, driven by higher manganese ore prices.
Metallurgical Coal generated an underlying operating 
profit of $46 million, an 89% decrease, primarily owing to 
lower realised export selling prices, partly offset by 
increased production and sales volumes, the weaker 
Australian dollar, and cost-cutting initiatives.
Thermal Coal generated an underlying operating profit of 
$541 million, a 32% decrease, mainly as a result of lower 
average export thermal coal prices, partly offset by the 
impact of the weaker rand. Business performance was also 
affected by a 32 day strike at Cerrejón in the first quarter.
Copper delivered an underlying operating profit of 
$1,739 million, in line with 2012, as a result of lower  
realised sales prices, offset by increased production  
and sales volumes. 
Nickel reported an underlying operating loss of $44 million, 
a $70 million decrease, owing to lower realised prices, a 
reduction in sales volumes, as well as the non-recurrence  
of the insurance receivable that benefited the business  
in 2012.
38 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PERFORMANCE PRODUCTION
Metallurgical Coal, Copper, Platinum and Diamonds all 
reported production increases for 2013. 
Iron Ore and Manganese – production of iron ore 
decreased by 2% to 42.4 million tonnes (Mt), with higher 
production from Kolomela offset by a weaker performance 
from Sishen as a result of Section 54 safety stoppages and 
ongoing pit constraints. Manganese ore production was flat, 
though alloy output increased.
Metallurgical Coal – production increased by 2% to  
31.2 Mt, with record metallurgical coal production of 18.7 Mt, 
benefiting from the longwall improvement programmes at 
Moranbah North and Capcoal’s underground operation,  
as well as operational improvements at Peace River Coal, 
partly offset by the impact of flooding at Dawson. 
Thermal Coal – production decreased by 2% to 67.6 Mt, 
with improved machine rates and waste treatment at 
Greenside offset by lower than expected production at  
New Vaal and Cerrejón. The decrease at New Vaal was 
attributable to wet weather interruptions and reduced 
demand from Eskom, while Cerrejón was as a result of the 
32 day strike in the first quarter of the year, which was partly 
mitigated by an effective recovery plan.
Copper – production increased by 17% to 774,800 tonnes, 
benefiting at Los Bronces from the fully ramped up 
Confluencia plant and improved ore characteristics, and 
from higher grades and recoveries at Collahuasi.
Nickel – production decreased by 12% to 34,400 tonnes 
following the cessation of production at Loma de Níquel 
from September 2012, partly offset by increased production 
at Barro Alto.
Niobium – production increased by 2% to 4,500 tonnes, as 
throughput and recovery improvements offset the decline  
in ore quality.
Phosphates – fertiliser production increased by 6% to 
1,199,000 tonnes owing to improved performance following 
optimised maintenance scheduling, increased plant 
availability and improved performance at the acidulation  
and granulation plants.
Platinum – equivalent refined platinum production 
increased by 5% to 2,320,400 ounces as the company 
recovered from the impact of the strike in the fourth  
quarter of 2012, partially offset by the production lost from 
Khuseleka 2, Khomanani and Union North declines shaft 
being put on to long term care and maintenance from 
mid-August as a result of the business restructuring.
Diamonds – production increased by 12% to 31.2 million 
carats, largely owing to the full restoration of operations at 
Jwaneng in the third quarter following a slope failure incident 
in June 2012. Production from Canada also increased 
following further increases in mining volumes and improved 
grades at Snap Lake.
EXPLORATION
Global exploration activity for 2013 focused on greenfield 
projects across a number of mature and frontier locations, 
as well as on adding value through increasing resources  
and reserves, to our operations and advanced projects. 
Exploration expenditure for the year amounted to 
$207 million (2012: $206 million) and covered 19 countries.
Iron ore exploration expenditure of $24 million was 
concentrated around operations in South Africa and 
greenfield projects in Australia, Brazil and Liberia. In  
South Africa, exploration was undertaken to support 
Kumba’s Sishen, Kolomela and Thabazimbi mines. The  
high priority targets defined in 2012 were further drilled  
in 2013, and the economic potential of these targets is 
currently being investigated. Drilling will continue in 2014  
to further investigate the potential. 
Expenditure on metallurgical coal exploration was  
$19 million and included drilling, seismic surveys and 
coal-quality analysis. In Australia, the focus was on 
opportunities near existing operations with the main  
aim of improving the definition of additional coking coal 
resources. In Canada, emphasis was placed on the 
tenements surrounding the Peace River Coal Trend Mine 
and Roman Project, in order to help define additional open 
cut coking coal resources. 
Expenditure on thermal coal exploration totalled $14 million. 
This was incurred primarily on coal (82%) as well as on coal 
bed methane (CBM) drilling and analysis (18%) in South 
Africa and Botswana. Exploration drilling was undertaken  
in 10 coal project areas, with the objectives of meeting both 
statutory work programme requirements and providing 
geological evaluation information to enable further project 
advancement. In South Africa, CBM exploration was 
conducted on the Waterberg CBM project.
Copper exploration expenditure of $31 million consisted 
mainly of near-mine and greenfield exploration drilling in 
Chile, where key activities included drilling and drilling logistics 
at El Soldado and Los Bronces, respectively. Greenfield 
exploration was also conducted in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, 
Colombia, Greenland, Indonesia, Peru, the US and Zambia.
 
 
(2%)
 
 
 
 
Kumba Iron Ore
Metallurgical Coal
2%
Thermal Coal
(2%)
Copper
17%
Nickel
(12%)
Niobium
2%
5%
6%
Diamonds
12%
Platinum
Phosphates
39
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT PROJECTS 
The Group has a number of projects in the execution  
phase, as summarised below, and is progressing with  
the development of other growth projects, including the 
greenfield Quellaveco copper project in Peru.
Minas-Rio 
Minas-Rio is expected to produce 26.5 Mt (wet basis) of iron 
ore per annum and to capture a significant part of the global 
pellet feed market, with its premium product featuring high 
iron content and low contaminants. Construction of the 
project continues in line with the revised plan announced  
in 2012. By the end of 2013, the project was 84% complete 
overall and is on schedule to deliver first ore on ship at the 
end of 2014.
Attributable capital expenditure at the Minas-Rio project  
is on track at $8.8 billion, with cash unit costs in a 
competitive position in the lower half of the global seaborne 
iron ore cost curve.
The main schedule risks identified at the end of 2012  
have been resolved, and over the past year, significant 
construction and operational progress was made. 
Grosvenor 
The wholly owned greenfield Grosvenor metallurgical  
coal project is situated immediately to the south of  
our highly productive Moranbah North metallurgical coal 
mine in the Bowen Basin of Queensland, Australia. 
Grosvenor is expected to produce 5.0 Mtpa of high quality 
metallurgical coal from its underground longwall operation 
over a projected mine life of 31 years and to benefit from 
operating costs in the lower half of the cost curve.
The project remains on target for first longwall production  
in 2016. All key permits and licences are in place. Critical 
engineering and procurement activities have been 
completed and the majority of the project budget has been 
contracted and committed. Surface construction is well 
advanced; earthworks and concrete are essentially 
complete; structural, mechanical and piping works are 
advancing well; and electrical works have commenced.  
The drift portal works are complete and underground 
development has commenced with the commissioning  
of a tunnel boring machine.
Polymetallic (copper-nickel-platinum group elements) 
exploration expenditure (included within the Nickel 
commodity line as disclosed in note 4 to the financial 
statements), amounted to $20 million and concentrated  
on our Sakatti project in northern Finland. Exploration  
at this advanced project aimed to define the limits of the 
orebody and to test other surrounding targets. Greenfield 
polymetallic exploration was also conducted in the 
Musgraves region of Western Australia and the  
Canadian Arctic.
Nickel exploration expenditure amounted to $2 million  
and related mainly to nickel laterite exploration in the  
Morro Sem Boné district in Brazil. Near-mine exploration 
was undertaken at Niquelândia (Codemin), also in Brazil.
Niobium and Phosphates exploration expenditure totalled 
$6 million and was directed towards greenfield projects  
in central Brazil, near-mine exploration at Boa Vista 
(niobium) and further definition drilling of the Morro Preto 
phosphates prospect.
Platinum exploration accounted for $2 million and was 
mainly incurred on investigating new opportunities within 
South Africa’s Bushveld Complex and on fulfilling the 
statutory work programme requirements to keep tenure  
in good standing. This included a drilling programme to 
examine the potential for shallow resources to be mined 
using opencast methods. Prospecting for platinum  
group metals continued around our Unki platinum mine  
in Zimbabwe.
Diamond exploration spend was $53 million and related  
to diamond exploration programmes in Angola, Botswana, 
Canada, India, Namibia and South Africa. The exploration 
team continued to provide technical services to the resource 
extension programmes for Jwaneng and Orapa mines in 
Botswana and Victor mine in Canada.
%
Iron ore 24
Metallurgical coal 19
Thermal coal 14
Copper 31
Nickel 22
Niobium and phosphates 6
Platinum  2
Diamonds 53
Central exploration activities 36
Total  207
12
9
7
15
11
3
1
25
17
100
40 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PERFORMANCE Venetia 
In South Africa, the first blast took place in September 2013 
for the construction of an underground mine beneath the 
open pit at Venetia. With capital investment of $2 billion,  
the underground expansion represents De Beers’ largest 
ever investment in South Africa. Production is expected to 
commence from the underground mine in 2021 and will 
extend the life of the mine to beyond 2040. The projected 
life of mine plan will treat approximately 129 million tonnes 
of ore, containing an estimated 94 million carats
(1)
.
Boa Vista Fresh Rock 
The Boa Vista Fresh Rock project in Brazil continued to 
progress during 2013 and is expected to start production 
later in 2014. The project includes the construction of a new 
upstream plant that will enable continuity of the Catalão site 
through processing the fresh rock orebody. Production 
capacity will increase to approximately 6,500 tonnes of 
niobium per year (2013: 4,500 tonnes), allowing use of the 
full plant capacity. 
Capital expenditure
Total capital spend increased from $6,030 million in 2012  
to $6,261 million, predominantly as a result of the increased 
expansionary expenditure at Minas-Rio and Grosvenor, as 
well as the increased holding in De Beers.
Capital expenditure
$ million
Year ended  
31 Dec 2013
Year ended  
31 Dec 2012
Expansionary 3,258 2,956
Stay in business 2,242 2,290
Development and stripping 761 784
Total 6,261 6,030
SELECTED MAJOR PROJECTS
Approved
Sector Project Country
Greenfield (G)/ 
Brownfield (B)
First  
production  
date
Full  
production  
date
Capital 
expenditure 
$ bn
(1)
Production volume
(2)
Iron Ore and Manganese Minas-Rio Brazil G 2014 2016 8.8
(3)
26.5 Mtpa iron ore pellet feed
(4)
Metallurgical Coal Grosvenor Australia G 2014 2016 2 5.0 Mtpa metallurgical
Thermal Coal Cerrejón P40 Colombia B 2013 2015 <2 8.0 Mtpa thermal
Copper Collahuasi expansion Phase 2 Chile B 2013 2014 <1 20 ktpa copper
Platinum Twickenham South Africa G 2013 2024 <2 202 kozpa refined platinum
Bathopele Phase 5 South Africa B 2013 2017 <1 replace 128 kozpa refined 
platinum
Diamonds Jwaneng – Cut-8 Botswana B 2016 2018
(5)
3
(6)
approx. 10 million carats pa
Venetia U/G South Africa B 2021 2024 ~2 approx. 4 million carats pa
Niobium and Phosphates Boa Vista Fresh Rock Brazil B 2014 2015 <1
(7)
6.5 ktpa total niobium 
production
(1) 
Capital expenditure shown on 100% basis in nominal terms.
(2) 
Represents 100% of average incremental or replacement production, at full production, unless otherwise stated.
(3) 
Capital expenditure, post-acquisition of Anglo American’s shareholding in Minas-Rio, includes 100% of the mine and pipeline, and an attributable share of the port. 
(4) 
Iron ore pellet feed on wet tonnes basis at 8% moisture.
(5) 
Waste stripping at Cut-8, an extension to Jwaneng mine, began in 2010. Carat recovery will commence in 2016, with Cut-8 becoming the main ore source for Jwaneng from 2018.
(6) 
Infrastructure expenditure of approximately $450 million has already been spent. Project expenditure, including infrastructure expenditure, is likely to total approximately $3 billion  
and is anticipated to create access to an estimated 1 13 million carats over the life of the mine. 
(7) 
An extension to mine life by mining the unweathered ore after oxides have been depleted. New processing plant (from crushing to leaching) required.
(1) 
Scheduled Inferred Resources constitute 28% (26.3 Mct) of the  
estimated carats.
41
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT Overall, the changes we have been making across 
commercial provide the platform to deliver a $400 million  
a year improvement in EBIT from 2016. 
This value will be created through more than 40 specific 
commercial initiatives which have been fully scoped and 
assessed. They include strategies to realise higher prices  
by changing our product mix to respond to market 
developments and customer needs, as well as improving 
returns by diversifying our customer base, establishing 
more direct customer relationships, and eliminating 
discounts or fees previously given to fabricators and  
other intermediaries.
Some 60% of the $400 million of value identified  
will come from projects that are at an advanced stage  
of implementation, with resources already committed  
to delivery. 
SUPPLY CHAIN
An important aspect of the Driving Value programme is 
Supply Chain’s commitment to deliver $100 million of 
sustainable savings to the Group by 2016 through the 
focused implementation of a number of key initiatives.
Optimisation of contracted services 
The initial focus is in Chile, where current contractor costs  
at our operations account for 55% of total expenditure. 
Contracted service costs have increased significantly owing 
to escalating labour costs, a lack of skilled labour and a 
strengthening Chilean peso. A comprehensive review of 
these services has identified significant opportunities to 
deliver savings. Lessons learned from this initiative will be 
transferred to all business units once implemented.
Extending global tyre contracts and effective  
tyre management
Anglo American currently spends $220 million on off-road 
tyres. With competitive new long term contracts in place  
to provide commercial benefit and ensure security of  
supply, the focus is now on implementing multiple  
initiatives, targeting a 30% improvement in tyre life.  
This is expected to be achieved through tyre pressure 
monitoring, driver awareness, road maintenance and 
improved maintenance practices.
Implementing fuel management and efficiency 
systems to reduce diesel consumption
Anglo American’s current annual fuel expenditure is in 
excess of $1.1 billion. In addition to ensuring we have 
attractive commercial agreements in place, we are also 
reducing fuel consumption through a range of efficiency and 
technology initiatives. Focal points include additional price 
and volume discounts, better fuel management, including 
the use of fuel-flow optimisation technology, and cleaner 
performance-enhancing fuels. 
CREATING VALUE THROUGH OUR  
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES
As commodity markets have evolved over recent years, 
becoming more dynamic and competitive, we have been 
developing our strategy to take advantage of these changes 
to improve returns from our commercial activities. 
At Anglo American, ‘commercial’ refers to the whole value 
chain from the mine gate to the end-customer. Since 2012, 
we have been making significant changes across this area  
to become more proactive, globally co-ordinated and 
customer-centric in our approach, and to enable us to  
realise the full value potential of our asset portfolio. 
We have moved from a highly decentralised commercial 
organisation built around nine export marketing offices 
across the world, to a single global commercial function  
with two hubs, in London and Singapore. This brings us 
closer to our customers in the respective European and 
Asia-Pacific markets and is facilitating knowledge sharing 
and collaboration across our marketing and sales teams. 
Combining our commercial activities under a single 
leadership team is also enabling us to enhance commercial 
capabilities across the organisation and better manage our 
talent pool and pipeline, as well as ensuring an integrated 
approach to value delivery across the commodity portfolio. 
Further benefits are being realised through improved 
efficiencies, including harmonised processes and systems 
and the use of shared services in areas such as commercial 
finance and information technology. 
During 2012 and early 2013, we established centres  
of excellence to drive best practice in key commercial 
disciplines such as market intelligence and logistics. 
We have also developed, and are in the process of 
implementing, new commercial risk- and performance-
management systems to measure value creation and 
manage risk exposure more effectively. 
In addition, we have brought all our shipping activities 
together within a single shipping division, and plan to 
significantly increase the proportion of business we do  
on a delivered basis over the coming years, with a target 
freight book of 50 million tonnes by 2016. Consolidating  
all our shipping into a single portfolio enables us to leverage 
our global scale and fully optimise our freight network to 
reduce costs and cargo turnaround times. It also gives us 
more control and flexibility in this part of the commercial 
value chain. 
42 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PERFORMANCE Using Chinese suppliers to reduce  
procurement costs
With the assistance of its China-based procurement office, 
Anglo American has successfully used pre-qualified 
Chinese suppliers to reduce total life cycle costs. Targeted 
sourcing from China offers cost advantages and improved 
lead times which have significant value impact potential  
at our operations. The introduction of alternative supply 
possibilities has the benefit of driving competitive pricing  
in the market. 
A further $47 million of ‘one-off’ savings has also been 
identified. This will come from the implementation of a 
common strategy across the business units for the disposal 
of surplus mining equipment so that the value returned to 
the business from the disposal of such assets is maximised, 
along with greater control of the sale process.
MANAGING OUR IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT
Growing regulatory and social pressure, increasing 
demands for limited natural resources, and the rising  
costs of energy and water, all highlight the business 
imperative of responsible environmental management. 
Within this context, the principal environmental risks  
facing our business relate to water and climate change.  
In our Sustainable Development Report we also report  
on land management, biodiversity, waste and air  
quality as other important issues that require specific  
management attention. 
We also see tremendous opportunity. The metals we  
mine are increasingly applied in innovative environmental 
technologies; communities without access to water and 
sanitation can benefit from our mine infrastructure, and 
some of the land under our management control has yet to 
be used to its fullest potential. In some of our waste facilities 
lies the opportunity to re-mine, while for others we research 
and trial novel applications for by-products.
We continue to make progress towards our environmental 
goals and internal targets, achieving tangible  
improvements in resource efficiency and associated cost 
savings and productivity.
Strategy and management approach
We seek to manage our environmental risks by minimising 
our impacts and by taking advantage of opportunities that 
deliver long term benefits to our stakeholders. We do this  
by driving operational excellence, investing in technology,  
and engaging and partnering with our stakeholders. The 
Anglo American Environment Way, which includes 
performance standards covering all our environmental 
aspects, guides our approach to responsible environmental 
management. In 2013, we placed particular emphasis on 
water quality, legacy issues, and improving environmental 
incident management and reporting. 
Our internal Safety and Sustainable Development risk and 
assurance function conducts reviews of our most material 
sustainability and technical risks on a rotational basis. During 
2013, 15 environmental reviews were conducted, focusing 
on water quality, environmental legacy issues and tailings-
disposal facilities. The results of such reviews are discussed 
and addressed on site and with business unit leadership 
teams and reported to relevant oversight bodies, including 
committees of the Board. We also received external 
certification on our environmental management systems  
via 53 external audits.
Anglo American reports environmental incidents according 
to five levels of severity. In 2013, 30 level 3 (medium impact) 
environmental incidents were reported. All incidents are 
addressed on site and the root causes determined and 
mitigated in order to prevent repeats. Remedial action  
has been completed for half of these incidents and is in 
progress at the rest. No level 4 or 5 (high impact) incidents 
were reported.
43
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT WATER
Water is fundamental to our business, particularly as more 
than 70% of our mines are in water-stressed areas. To 
maintain our licence to operate, we cannot degrade water 
quality, or compromise the access rights of other users. We 
also have an opportunity to play a leadership role in our 
water catchments through partnerships and by increasing 
the shared benefits of our water-related mining activities  
and infrastructure development.
Strategy and management approach
Our 10 year water strategy, launched in 2010, reflects our 
aspiration to demonstrate leadership in water stewardship. 
Most of our operations now go beyond compliance, using 
technology to reduce our dependence and impact on water 
resources, and engagement that becomes part of broader, 
catchment level water management solutions. 
Our water management programme is supported by a 
mandatory water standard and delivered via operational 
water action plans. Every Anglo American operation works 
towards a water reduction target that was determined in 
201 1, using our water efficiency target tool (WETT), which 
forecasts the projected business as usual (BAU) demand  
of individual operations and registers water saving projects. 
Operational targets are aggregated at business unit level, 
where they are included in business unit CEO performance 
contracts. These make up our Group target of a 14% 
reduction from our projected water consumption by 2020. 
De Beers’ targets will be established and included in 2014.
Our performance
Anglo American’s total water consumption increased from 
156 million m
3
 of water in 2012, to 201 million m
3
 in 2013.  
Of this total, De Beers accounted for 75 million m
3
. Nearly 
40% of De Beers’ consumption is sea water abstracted by 
Namdeb operations in Namibia. The increase was partially 
offset by divestments and savings from the implementation 
of our WETT programme. This once again had a material 
impact on improving our water efficiency such that we have 
already exceeded our 2020 water savings target of 14%. 
Water saving projects implemented include more effective 
dust suppression, dewatering of tailings and more efficient 
ore separation. Water cost savings exceeded $85 million  
in 2013.
Water re-use/recycling levels dropped from 70% in 2012  
to 67% in 2013. Excluding De Beers, which does not yet  
fully account for all water recycled, this figure would have 
been 73%.
Where operations face high risks related to water,  
we develop specific risk-management action plans.  
These include plans to manage the tight water supply 
balance at Los Bronces, the rain-immunisation  
programme at Metallurgical Coal in Australia aimed  
at protecting operations from extreme weather, and  
Sishen iron ore mine’s surface flooding and water 
management programme.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
%
Water re-used/recycled 
Water used for 
primary activities
Water used for 
non-primary activities
Total   
67
30
3
100
T otal new water consumed in ongoing business
million m
3
Total water consumed against business 
as usual  (BAU) 2010–2013
   
0
100
50
150
200
250
2013
De Beers
Divested businesses
BAU projection
2010 2011 2012
WETT savings
{
44 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PERFORMANCE CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
The key climate change risks we face are: increasing  
energy and compliance costs associated with new policy 
measures, including carbon pricing; changing demand  
for our products; and increased risks associated with the 
physical impacts of climate change on our operations and 
neighbouring communities.
Governments in our countries of operation continue  
to develop climate change policies. In South Africa, the 
government’s proposed carbon tax, if implemented in 2015, 
would introduce a higher carbon cost for our business. In 
Chile, there is increased focus on climate risks, particularly 
around potential impacts on glaciers, and Brazil is 
investigating options for a cap-and-trade scheme. In 
Australia, our Metallurgical Coal business expects to benefit 
from the new government’s intention to replace the existing 
carbon pricing scheme in July 2014 with a Direct Action 
Plan, the details of which are still to be confirmed.
Strategy and management approach
Improving operational energy and carbon management  
is driven through our industry-leading programme, 
ECO
2
MAN. In 201 1, energy- and carbon-reduction targets 
were agreed for every Anglo American operation. These  
are aggregated into business unit targets and form part  
of business unit CEO performance contracts. Our overall 
targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) emission and energy 
consumption reductions are 19% and 7% respectively, 
against the projected BAU levels in 2015.
Our performance
By year end, we had achieved reductions of 3.5 million 
tonnes (Mt) of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and 
4.3 million GJ in energy consumption against the 2015  
BAU projections.
During 2013, Anglo American consumed 106 million GJ  
of energy (2012: 1 13 million GJ). The 6% year-on-year 
decrease, despite the inclusion of an additional 9 million GJ 
of energy use at De Beers, was attributable to the 
divestment of assets in our Other Mining and Industrial,  
and Nickel businesses as well as the implementation  
of energy- and carbon-saving projects as part of the 
ECO
2
MAN programme, where we added 61 new projects. 
The total of 260 completed projects accounted for a 5% 
reduction against our BAU consumption target of 7% by 
2015. The resultant avoided-energy cost is estimated at 
$95.5 million.
The Group’s total Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions declined to 17 Mt of carbon dioxide 
equivalent emissions (CO
2
e) (2012: 18 Mt CO
2
e). The 
inclusion of De Beers’ relatively modest GHG emission 
profile (2 Mt CO
2
e) was countered by the divestment  
of the energy-intensive Scaw South Africa business at  
the end of 2012, as well as the cessation of operations  
at Loma de Níquel towards the end of that year. The sale  
of Tarmac Quarry Materials, which now forms part of  
the Lafarge Tarmac joint venture and is not included in  
Anglo American figures, as well as the divestment of Amapá 
at the end of 2013, have further contributed to the reduction. 
Largely as a result of Metallurgical Coal’s management of 
underground methane, Anglo American is on track towards 
achieving its carbon-saving target level of 19% by 2015. 
Within the current business, GHG emissions for 2013 
increased by 14% at Kumba, mainly owing to increased  
use of diesel for waste stripping, and at Iron Ore Brazil, 
where emissions were 50% higher as a consequence of the 
ramping up of construction at the Minas-Rio iron ore project. 
140
0
40
80
120
20
60
100
2010 2011 2012 2013
Energy consumed by ongoing business
De Beers
Divested businesses
BAU projection for ongoing business
25
0
10
20
5
15
2010 2011 2012 2013
Energy consumed by ongoing business
De Beers
Divested businesses
BAU projection for ongoing business
45
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT EFFECTIVE RISK 
MANAGEMENT
“ Understanding our key risks and developing 
appropriate responses is critical to our future 
success. We are committed to a robust system  
of risk identification and an effective response  
to such risks.”
David Challen 
Chairman, Audit Committee
HOW WE MANAGE RISK
Management of risk is critical to the success of  
Anglo American. Our Group is exposed to a variety  
of risks that can have a financial, operational or 
reputational impact. Effective management of risk 
supports the delivery of our objectives and the 
achievement of sustainable growth.
HOW DOES RISK RELATE TO  
OUR STRATEGIC INTENTS?
Risks can arise from events outside of our control or from 
operational matters. Each of the key risks described on the 
following pages can have an impact on our ability to achieve 
our strategic intents. This is illustrated by reference to each 
of our strategic intents:
 • Portfolio – investing in a portfolio of assets that deliver 
superior margins and returns through the cycle.
 • People – organising and developing our people to deliver 
on our promises and build respectful and mutually 
beneficial relationships with our stakeholders.
 • Performance – operating safely and responsibly across 
the mining value chain to deliver sustainable value to best 
meet our customer and stakeholder needs.
As mining is a business that can span decades, many of its 
attendant risks are long term in nature, and there may not  
be any significant change year on year. The commentary 
provided on each risk is intended to highlight significant 
changes in the profile of individual risks or describe our 
experience of the risk over the course of 2013.
For more information on the S&SD Committee
See page 103
For more information on the Audit Committee
See page 106
Anglo American assessment of strategic, operational, project and sustainable development related risks
1. Identifying risks 
A robust methodology is used to identify key risks across the Group;  
at business units, operations and projects. This is being applied 
consistently through the development and ongoing implementation  
of a Group integrated risk management standard.
2. Analysing risks and controls to manage identified risks 
Once identified, the process will evaluate identified risks to establish 
root causes, financial and non-financial impacts and likelihood of 
occurrence. Consideration of risk treatments is taken into account  
to enable the creation of a prioritised register.
3. Determining management actions required
Effectiveness and adequacy of controls are assessed.  
If additional controls are required, these will be identified and 
responsibilities assigned.
4. Reporting and monitoring
Management is responsible for monitoring progress of actions to  
treat key risks and is supported through the Group’s internal audit 
programme, which evaluates the design and effectiveness of  
controls. The risk management process is continuous; key risks  
are reported to the Audit Committee, with sustainability risk also  
being reported to the S&SD Committee.
 
2 
Analysing  
risks and controls 
to manage 
identified risks
 
1  
Identifying  
risks 
 
3 
Determining 
management  
actions required
 
4 
Reporting  
and monitoring
46 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT RISK The risks defined in this report are those we believe are our 
principal risks. In previous years we have reported risks 
relating to climate change, counterparty, exploration, supply 
chain, contractors, Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources, 
bribery and corruption, joint ventures and acquisitions and 
divestments, all of which we remain exposed to, though we 
do not consider them to be our principal risks. Therefore, 
such risks are not discussed in the report. 
We also recognise that risks cannot be viewed in isolation. 
Emergence of one risk may be caused by one or more other 
risks, or may cause another risk to emerge. For example, 
project delivery or production risk can be influenced by  
risks relating to supply, inflation, political matters, legal and 
regulatory requirements, infrastructure or community 
relations. This interconnectivity, and the relationship of  
risks to our above-mentioned strategic elements, requires 
significant emphasis to be placed on the management  
of risk and the effectiveness of our risk controls, with the 
identification and understanding of our risks being the  
first step in what is a continuous process.
KEY RISKS AT A GLANCE
EXTERNAL  
Pages 48–49
OPERATIONAL  
Pages 50–53
Increased risk 
 • Political, legal and regulatory
 • Information and cyber security
 • None
Decreased risk 
 • Inflation • None
No change  
in risk 
 • Commodity prices
 • Currency risk
 • Liquidity risk
 • Community relations
 • Employees
 • Environmental
 • Event risk
 • Infrastructure
 • Operational risk and 
project delivery
 • Safety and health
47
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 EXTERNAL RISKS
48 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
POLITICAL, LEGAL AND REGULATORY Pillars of value:
Wherever we operate, our businesses may be affected by 
political or regulatory developments, including changes to  
fiscal regimes or other regulatory regimes. 
 
Impact: Potential impacts include restrictions on the export of 
currency, expropriation of assets, imposition of royalties or other 
taxes targeted at mining companies, and requirements for local 
ownership or beneficiation. Political instability can also result in  
civil unrest and nullification of existing agreements, mining permits  
or leases. Any of these may adversely affect the Group’s operations 
or results of those operations.
Root cause: The Group has no control over local political acts or 
changes in local tax rates. It recognises that its licence to operate 
through mining rights is dependent on a number of factors, including 
compliance with regulations.
Mitigation: The Group actively monitors regulatory and political 
developments on a continuous basis.
Commentary: During 201 3, we announced the restructuring  
of our Platinum business in South Africa and have worked closely 
with government and the trade unions to minimise the potential  
for damaging strike action or social unrest. 
This matter, which is further explained on pages 80–85, is indicative  
of the need to understand and manage an increasingly complex 
global political, legal and regulatory environment.
Increased risk
CURRENCY RISK Pillars of value:
The Group is exposed to currency risk when transactions are 
not conducted in US dollars. 
 
Impact: Fluctuations in the exchange rates of the most important 
currencies influencing our own operating costs and asset valuations 
(the South African rand, Chilean peso, Brazilian real, Australian  
dollar, and pound sterling) may materially affect the Group’s  
financial results.
Root cause: The global nature of the Group’s businesses exposes 
the Group to currency risk.
Mitigation: Given our Group’s diversified nature, our policy  
is generally not to hedge currency risk. Mitigation in the form  
of foreign exchange hedging is limited to debt instruments and  
capital expenditure on major projects.
Commentary: Further description of currency risk and analysis  
of sensitivity to foreign exchange movement is provided on  
pages 203–204.
No change in risk
INFORMATION AND CYBER SECURITY Pillars of value:
The Group is exposed to risk of attack by third parties on our 
information systems. 
 
Impact: Attacks on our information systems may result in loss of 
sensitive or proprietary information and fraud. Damage is possible to 
equipment that is critical to mining or processing of ore, resulting in 
interruption to production.
Root cause: Cyber risk arises from criminal activity to cause 
disruption or attempts by third parties to access sensitive information. 
The pace of technological development makes it challenging for any 
organisation to prevent increasingly sophisticated methods of 
attacking information technology systems.
Mitigation: Anti-virus software and general computer controls 
provide a level of protection. In addition, monitoring of networks is 
undertaken to identify suspicious activity in order that appropriate 
action can be taken. We receive information on threats through 
security consultants and agencies on an ongoing basis. The Group 
also has an Information Security policy that introduces the measures 
expected of employees in handling sensitive information.
Commentary: The risk is increased as we recognise the threat is 
continually developing on a global basis.
Increased risk
STRATEGIC REPORT RISK 49
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
COMMODITY PRICES Pillars of value:
Commodity prices for all products that Anglo American 
produces are subject to wide fluctuation. 
 
Impact: Commodity price volatility can result in a material and 
adverse movement in the Group’s operating results, asset values, 
revenues and cash flows. Falling commodity prices could prevent  
us from completing transactions that are important to the business 
and which may have an adverse effect on Anglo American’s financial 
position – e.g. the inability to sell assets at the values or within the 
timelines expected.
If commodity prices remain weak for a sustained period, our ability  
to deliver growth in future years may be compromised as growth 
projects may not be viable at lower prices, and we may not be able  
to compete for new, complex projects that require significant  
capital investment.
Root cause: Commodity prices are determined primarily by 
international markets and global supply and demand. Demand  
for commodities will largely be determined by the strength of the 
global economic environment.
Mitigation: The diversified nature of the commodities that  
Anglo American produces provides some protection to this risk,  
and our policy is not to engage in commodity price hedging. We 
constantly monitor the markets in which we operate, reviewing 
capital expenditure programmes accordingly, so as to ensure the 
supply of our products reflects forecast market conditions.
Commentary: During 201 3, prices in most of the commodities we  
mine remained relatively weak as a result of lacklustre economic 
conditions in many of our key markets. Further detail of price 
movements is provided on page 7 .
No change in risk
INFLATION Pillars of value:
The Group is exposed to potentially high rates of inflation  
in the countries in which it operates. 
 
Impact: Higher rates of inflation may increase future operational 
costs if there is no concurrent depreciation of the local currency 
against the US dollar, or an increase in the dollar price of the 
applicable commodity. This may have a negative impact on profit 
margins and financial results.
Root cause: Cost inflation in the mining sector is more apparent 
during periods of high commodity prices as demand for input goods 
and services can exceed supply.
Mitigation: We closely manage costs through our business 
improvement and supply chain initiatives and, where necessary, 
through adjusting employee and contractor numbers.
Commentary: The Driving Value programme has identified 
opportunities for cost reduction in operations and corporate costs. 
External cost pressures will continue (e.g. labour costs) but are 
expected to be managed through the initiatives announced.
Decrease in risk
LIQUIDITY RISK Pillars of value:
Our Group is exposed to liquidity risk in terms of being able to 
fund operations and growth. 
 
Impact: If we are unable to obtain sufficient credit as a result of 
prevailing capital market conditions, we may not be able to raise 
sufficient funds to meet ongoing financing needs, develop projects, 
compete for new projects requiring significant capital expenditure, or 
fund acquisitions. As a result, our revenues, operating results, cash 
flows or financial position may be adversely affected.
If commodity prices remain weak for a sustained period, our ability  
to deliver growth in future years may be compromised as growth 
projects may not be viable at lower prices, and we may not be able  
to compete for new, complex projects that require significant  
capital investment.
Root cause: Liquidity risk arises from uncertainty or volatility in  
the capital or credit markets owing to perceived weaknesses in the 
global economic environment, or possibly as a response to shock 
events. Liquidity risk also arises when lenders are insecure about  
our long term cash generative capacity.
Mitigation: We have an experienced Treasury team which is 
responsible for ensuring that there are sufficient committed loan 
facilities in place to meet short term business requirements after 
taking into account cash flows from operations and holdings of cash, 
as well as any Group distribution restrictions. We limit exposure on 
liquid funds through a policy of minimum counterparty credit ratings, 
daily counterparty settlement limits and exposure diversification.
Commentary: All financing needs have been met, though capital 
availability for project development or acquisition is likely to be low 
until existing commitments are fulfilled or a stronger pricing 
environment exists.
No change in risk OPERATIONAL RISKS
50 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT RISK
EMPLOYEES Pillars of value:
The ability to recruit, develop and retain appropriate skills  
for the Group. Strikes or other industrial relations disputes  
may occur. 
 
Impact: Failure to retain skilled employees or to recruit new staff 
may lead to increased costs, interruptions to existing operations  
and delay in new projects. Industrial disputes have an adverse effect 
on production levels, costs and the results of operations.
Root cause: We are subject to global competition for skilled  
labour. Our assets and development projects are often in remote 
places or in countries where it is a challenge to recruit suitably skilled 
employees. In the key countries where the Group operates, the 
majority of employees are members of trade unions. Negotiations 
over wage levels or working conditions can sometimes fail to result  
in agreement.
Mitigation: One of Anglo American’s objectives is to be the 
employer of choice in the mining sector. A comprehensive human 
resources strategy has been devised to support that objective, 
focused on the attraction, retention and development of talented 
employees and the effective deployment of talent across the Group. 
The Group seeks constructive relationships and dialogue with trade 
unions and employees in all its businesses.
Commentary: During 201 3, we began a review of our organisational 
model and structures. The aim of the redesign is to increase the 
effectiveness and efficiency of work performed by placing the right 
employees in the right roles. This is expected to reduce pressure on 
recruitment and retention of skills in the short term. Further details of 
the changes is provided on pages 28–30.
No change in risk
COMMUNITY RELATIONS Pillars of value:
Disputes with communities may arise from time to time. 
 
Impact: Failure to manage relationships with local communities, 
government and NGOs may disrupt operations and negatively affect 
Anglo American’s reputation as well as our ability to bring projects 
into production.
Root cause: We operate in several countries where ownership  
of rights in respect of land and resources is uncertain and where 
disputes in relation to ownership or other community matters  
may arise. The Group’s operations can have an impact on local 
communities, including the need, from time to time, to relocate 
communities or infrastructure networks such as railways and  
utility services.
Mitigation: We have developed comprehensive processes to 
enable our business units to effectively manage relationships with 
communities and we actively seek to engage with all communities 
affected by our operations.
Commentary: Further description of our work during 201 3 to 
maintain and improve relationships with our stakeholders is provided 
on pages 31–33.
No change in risk 51
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
EVENT RISK Pillars of value:
Damage to physical assets from fire, explosion, natural 
catastrophe or breakdown of critical machinery. 
 
Impact: The direct costs of repair or replacement combined  
with business interruption losses can result in financial losses.
Root cause: Some of our operations are located in areas exposed  
to natural catastrophes such as earthquake/extreme weather 
conditions. The impact of climate change may intensify the severity  
of weather events. The nature of our operations exposes us to 
potential failure of mining pit slopes, underground shafts and tailings 
dam walls, fire, explosion and breakdown of critical machinery, with 
long lead times for replacement.
Mitigation: Specialist consultants are engaged to analyse such 
event risks on a rotational basis and provide recommendations for 
management action in order to prevent or limit the effects of such  
a loss. Contingency plans are developed to respond to significant 
events and restore normal levels of business activity. Anglo American 
purchases insurance to protect itself against the financial 
consequences of an event, subject to availability and cost.
Commentary: Unfortunately, we witnessed this risk materialise  
at the Amapá iron ore system in Brazil during 201 3, resulting in four 
deaths, with a further two people still missing, and loss of the port 
operation. The Amapá operation has since been sold and an 
insurance claim is being pursued. Lessons from this event are being 
shared with other port operations across the Group. 
No change in risk
ENVIRONMENT Pillars of value:
Some of our operations create environmental risk in the  
form of dust, noise or leakage of polluting substances as well  
as uncontrolled breaches of tailings dam facilities. These  
can generate harm to our employees, contractors and the 
communities near our operations, leading to a deterioration  
in air quality and water purity and contamination of land. 
 
Impact: Potential impacts include fines and penalties for past, 
current or future events, statutory liability for environmental 
remediation and other financial consequences that may be 
significant. Governments may force closure of mines on a temporary 
or permanent basis or refuse future mining right applications.
Root cause: The mining process, including blasting and processing 
of orebodies, can generate dust and noise and requires the storage  
of waste materials in liquid form.
Mitigation: The Group implements a number of initiatives to monitor 
and limit the impact of its operations on the environment.
Commentary: Our environmental performance during 201 3 is 
detailed on pages 43–45.
No change in risk OPERATIONAL RISKS continued
OPERATIONAL RISK AND PROJECT DELIVERY Pillars of value:
Failure to meet production targets or project delivery 
timetables and budgets. 
 
Impact: Increased unit costs may arise from failure to meet 
production targets, thus affecting our operational and financial 
performance. Failure to meet project delivery timetables and 
budgets may delay cash inflows, increase capital costs, incur 
contractual penalties, and reduce profitability, as well as have a 
negative impact on the Group’s reputation.
Root cause: Increasing regulatory, environmental, access and  
social approvals can increase construction costs and introduce 
delays. Operational performance can be influenced by technical  
and engineering factors as well as events or circumstances that  
have an impact on other critical inputs to the mining and processing 
of minerals.
Mitigation: Management oversight of operating performance  
and project delivery through regular executive management 
briefings, a continuous focus on improvement of operations  
through our business improvement programme, and consistent 
application of the company’s methodology for new projects,  
are vital aspects in managing this risk.
Commentary: The Minas-Rio project in Brazil remains the key risk 
from a project-delivery perspective. The risk has lessened during 
201 3, with most of the permit delays resolved and construction 
progressing (refer to commentary on pages 58–59 ). Production 
performance and status of key projects is provided on pages 39–41.
No change in risk
52 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT RISK
INFRASTRUCTURE Pillars of value:
Inability to obtain adequate supporting facilities, services  
and installations (water, power, road, rail and port, etc.). 
 
Impact: Failure to obtain supporting facilities may affect the 
sustainability and growth of the business, leading to loss of 
competitiveness, market share and reputation. Failure of rail or port 
facilities may result in delays and increased costs, lost revenue, and  
a worsening reputation with customers. Failure to procure shipping 
costs at competitive market rates may reduce profit margins.
Root cause: The potential disruption of ongoing generation and 
supply of power is a risk we face in a number of countries. Our 
operations and projects can be located in areas where power and 
water supplies are not certain and may be affected by population 
growth, the effects of climate change or lack of investment by owners 
of infrastructure. We rely upon effective rail and port facilities for 
transporting our products and will be expected to provide shipment 
of product in some circumstances to customers’ premises. We use 
third parties to provide these services.
Mitigation: We seek to work closely with suppliers of infrastructure 
to mitigate the risk of failure and have established contingency 
arrangements. Long term agreements with suppliers are sought 
where appropriate.
Commentary: Details of programmes to manage water 
consumption and power usage are provided on pages 43–45. 
No change in risk SAFETY AND HEALTH Pillars of value:
Failure to maintain high levels of safety management can  
result in harm to our employees, contractors, communities  
near our operations and damage to the environment. 
Occupational health risks to employees and contractors  
include noise-induced hearing loss, occupational lung diseases 
and tuberculosis (TB). In sub-Saharan Africa in particular,  
HIV/AIDS is a threat to economic growth and development. 
 
Impact: In addition to injury, health and environmental damage, 
impacts could include fines and penalties for past, current or future 
issues, liability to employees or third parties, impairment of 
Anglo American’s reputation, industrial action or inability to attract 
and retain skilled employees. Government authorities may force 
closure of mines on a temporary or permanent basis or refuse mining 
right applications. The recruitment and retention of skilled people 
required to meet growth aspirations can be affected by high rates  
of HIV/AIDS.
Root cause: Mining is a hazardous industry and working conditions 
such as weather, altitude and temperature can add to the inherent 
dangers of mining, whether underground or in open pit mines.
Mitigation: Anglo American sets a very high priority on safety and 
health matters. A safety risk management process, global standards 
and a safety and environment assurance programme form part of  
a consistently applied robust approach to mitigating safety risk. 
Anglo American provides free anti-retroviral therapy to employees 
with HIV/AIDS and undertakes education and awareness 
programmes to help prevent infection or spread of infection.
Commentary: Details of safety performance and our approach to 
health management are provided on pages 29–30.
No change in risk
53
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Norman Mbazima 
CEO – Kumba
Paulo Castellari-Porchia 
CEO – Iron Ore Brazil
Image  
Shovel operator  
Petrus Skhungweni 
scooping up overburden  
at Kumba Iron Ore’s giant 
Sishen open pit.
IRON ORE AND MANGANESE
54 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT IRON ORE AND MANGANESE
Key financial and non-financial performance indicators
$ million (unless otherwise stated) 2013 2012
(1)
Underlying operating profit 3,119 3,011
Kumba Iron Ore 3,047 3,042
Iron Ore Brazil (31) (5)
Samancor 210 103
Projects and Corporate (107) (129)
Underlying EBITDA 3,390 3,262
Capital expenditure 2,517 2,139
Share of Group underlying operating profit 47% 48%
Attributable return on capital employed 19% 21%
Non-financial indicators
(2)
2013 2012
Number of fatal injuries
Kumba Iron Ore 0 2
Iron Ore Brazil 0 0
Lost-time injury frequency rate 
Kumba Iron Ore 0.18 0.10
Iron Ore Brazil 0.005 0.01
Total energy consumed in 1,000 GJ
Kumba Iron Ore 9,340 7,607
Iron Ore Brazil 1,062 713
Total greenhouse gas emissions in 1,000 tonnes CO
2
e
Kumba Iron Ore 1,084 945
Iron Ore Brazil 78 52
Total water used consumed in 1,000 m
3
Kumba Iron Ore 10,648 10,038
Iron Ore Brazil 1,461 895
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements.  
See note 2 of the financial statements for details.
(2) 
Certain non-financial indicators relating to 2012 have been revised due to change requests made by the operations  
subsequent to the publication of the 2012 annual report. 
UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT
( 201 2: $3,01 1 m )
 $3 ,1 1 9 m
SHARE OF GROUP UNDERLYING 
OPERATING PROFIT
(2012: 48%)
47%
UNDERLYING EBITDA
(2012: $3,262 m)
$3,390 m 55
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Our Iron Ore portfolio is based in South Africa and Brazil. 
In South Africa, we have a 69.7% shareholding in Kumba 
Iron Ore Limited, a leading supplier of seaborne iron ore. 
Kumba, listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, 
produces a leading quality lump ore and also produces 
premium fine ore, in a lump-to-fine ratio of 63:37. Kumba 
holds a 73.9% interest in and manages Sishen Iron Ore 
Company (Pty) Ltd (SIOC) which, in turn, has three mining 
operations – Sishen mine in the Northern Cape Province, 
which produced 30.9 million tonnes (Mt) of iron ore in 2013; 
Kolomela mine, situated close to Sishen mine, which 
produced 10.8 Mt; and Thabazimbi mine in Limpopo 
province, with an output of 0.6 Mt. 
Export ore is transported via the Sishen/Kolomela-Saldanha 
iron ore export channel to the Port of Saldanha Bay. The rail 
and port operations are owned and operated by the South 
African parastatal, Transnet Freight Rail. 
Kumba is well positioned to supply the growing Asia-Pacific 
and European steel markets. In 2013, the company exported 
89% of its total iron ore sales volumes of 43.7 Mt, with 68% 
of these exports destined for China and the remainder for 
Europe, Japan and South Korea.
In Brazil, we are developing the Minas-Rio project (composed 
of Iron Ore Brazil’s 100% share in Anglo American Minerío 
de Ferro Brasil, and its 49% holding in LLX Minas-Rio, which 
owns the iron ore facility currently under construction at the 
port of Açu. On 8 January 2014, an additional 1% of LLX 
Minas-Rio was acquired, in line with contract rights resulting 
from the partner’s change of control). The project is located 
in the states of Minas Gerais and Rio de Janeiro and will 
include an open pit mine and beneficiation plant in Minas 
Gerais, producing high grade pellet feed. The ore will be 
transported through a 525 kilometre slurry pipeline to the 
port of Açu in Rio de Janeiro state. The current mine plan  
is to produce 26.5 Mtpa (wet basis) of saleable product for  
28 years, at an average quality of 67.5% Fe.
Our Manganese interests consist of a 40% shareholding in 
Samancor Holdings, which owns Hotazel Manganese Mines 
and Metalloys, both in South Africa, and a 40% shareholding 
in each of the Australian-based operations; Groote Eylandt 
Mining Company (GEMCO) and Tasmanian Electro 
Metallurgical Company (TEMCO), with BHP Billiton owning 
60% and having management control. Samancor is the 
world’s largest producer of manganese ore and is among 
the top global producers of manganese alloy. Its operations 
produce a combination of ores and alloys from sites in 
South Africa and Australia.
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
Global demand for iron ore is linked primarily to the state of 
the global steel industry and, more specifically, to the steel 
manufacturing sector in China. The country is the largest 
steel producer and consumer in the world and accounts for 
more than two-thirds of global seaborne iron ore imports.
Manganese alloy is a key input into the steelmaking process. 
Manganese high grade ore is particularly valuable to alloy 
producers because it is proportionately more efficient than 
low grade ore in the alloying process.
STRATEGY 
Anglo American’s strategy is to supply premium iron ore 
products against a background of declining quality global 
iron ore supplies. We have a unique iron ore resource profile, 
with extensive, high quality resource bases in South Africa 
and Brazil. 
Kumba seeks to maximise total shareholder value by 
enhancing the value of its current operations through 
the efficiency of its processes and business improvement 
programmes. The company captures value across the value 
chain through its commercial and logistics strategies and by 
executing its growth projects efficiently, while continuing to 
deliver on its organisational responsibilities, capabilities and 
societal obligations.
Source: Anglo American Commodity Research
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
%
China 644
Japan and Rest of Asia 138
Europe 92
CIS 83
India 69
North America 50
South America 38
Rest of World  35
Total 1,149
56
12
8
7
6
5
3
3
100
Source: Anglo American Commodity Research
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
%
Australia 357
South America 278
China 153
CIS 114
India 77
North America 63
Rest of World 59
Europe  48
Total 1,149
31
24
13
10
7
6
5
4
100 The company plans to grow its business organically in  
the short to medium term within the present logistical 
constraints and, in the longer term, evaluating the possibility 
of establishing a second footprint in West and Central Africa.
Minas-Rio will capture a significant part of the pellet feed 
market, with its premium product featuring high iron  
content and low contaminants. It will produce 26.5 million 
tonnes per annum (Mtpa), and is scheduled to begin 
its ramp up at the end of 2014.
Attributable capital expenditure for the Minas-Rio project  
is $8.8 billion, with cash unit costs in a competitive position 
in the lower half of the global seaborne iron ore cost curve. 
Operating safely, sustainably and responsibly 
Kumba Iron Ore
The safety and well-being of everyone in its organisation 
remains a priority and is a non-negotiable value at Kumba. 
The company has placed renewed emphasis on its safety 
improvement plans during the year, complemented by  
a greater focus on mindsets and behaviours aimed at 
enhancing a safety culture, and by management stressing 
the primary duty of each employee to concentrate on his  
or her safety in every task in the workplace. 
Kumba aims to maintain a healthy and productive  
workforce through management of occupational health  
and has succeeded in reducing noise and dust levels at  
all its operations. It is continually improving its HIV/AIDS 
management programmes, and addressing prevention  
and treatment. Kumba has relatively low prevalence rates 
and participation in its disease management programmes 
reached 86% in 2013.
Kumba faces a number of material issues in its current 
operating environment. At the forefront is meeting rising 
expectations and demands from stakeholders – principally, 
shareholders, government, employees, communities and 
NGOs – in a financially and resource-constrained economic 
and social environment.
The attraction, retention and development of skilled people 
remains a critical priority. The company addresses these 
issues through a considered and proactive approach to 
talent management and retention, as well as to workplace 
health and safety, responsible environmental management, 
and the application of leading social performance standards 
and management systems.
Iron Ore Brazil
Minas-Rio faces a number of issues that impact its ability  
to obtain both the formal and the social licences to operate. 
In this regard, Minas-Rio has intensified its efforts to 
strengthen and structure its engagement and relationships 
with governmental and environmental stakeholders. 
The approach is based on a detailed understanding of 
required permits and associated conditions, which is 
overseen by a dedicated Environmental Licensing Office 
(ELO). The ELO is backed-up by a structured approach  
to engaging government, community and civil society 
stakeholders that identifies expectations and concerns and 
formulates appropriate responses. In 2013, Anglo American 
also strengthened its government relations capability 
in Brazil.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW
Underlying operating profit increased by 4% from  
$3,01 1 million to $3,1 19 million, principally as a result of 
stronger average export iron ore prices at Kumba and higher 
prices, reduced costs and improved volumes at Samancor. 
This was partly offset by a decrease in export iron ore and 
increased costs at Kumba. 
Safety and environment
Kumba Iron Ore
Kumba completed the year without loss of life. The overall 
safety performance, however, suffered some setbacks, 
which were reflected in a worsening lost-time injury 
frequency rate (LTIFR) of 0.18 (2012: 0.10). Kumba has 
Platts 62% Fe CFR China
Jan 12 Jan 14 Jan 13
$/t 
Source: Anglo American Commodity Research
Quarterly CFR benchmark $/t
62% CFR spot $/t
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
56 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT IRON ORE AND MANGANESE renewed its focus on entrenching individual responsibility 
and behaviour, while various processes are under way to 
improve employee engagement through regular and visible 
interaction with leadership, as well as hazard identification. 
Environmental compliance is important to Kumba. To that 
extent, all environmental management plans were approved 
by South Africa’s Department of Mineral Resources (DMR). 
Kumba’s targeted savings for 2013 were 271,834 GJ of 
energy and 39,549 tonnes of CO
2
e greenhouse gases. 
Kumba continues to implement energy and water savings 
projects, some of which have already delivered quantifiable 
gains. Several savings projects are still at a conceptual stage, 
but actual savings in 2013 are estimated to be 133,394 GJ of 
energy and 30,574 tonnes CO
2
e greenhouse gases. 
Iron Ore Brazil 
The Minas-Rio project continues to be developed in a safe 
and responsible way, with no loss of life recorded during the 
year and more than 33 million man-hours worked without 
any lost-time injuries. 
Markets
The global steel and iron ore markets have generally been 
stable in 2013, and better than anticipated. An increase in 
global steel production of 3% to 1,582 Mt (2012: 1,529 Mt), 
supported demand for iron ore. Sustained government 
infrastructure expenditure in East Asia, as well as steel mill 
restocking prior to the winter season, assisted this rise. 
China, the main producer of steel worldwide, increased  
its production by an unexpectedly strong 7% to 779 Mt 
(2012: 731 Mt). Growth in Japan and South Korea was also 
above expectations, and Europe stabilised during the year, 
which supported global demand.
Seaborne iron ore supplies increased by 10% to 1,324 Mt 
(2012: 1,208 Mt), as the increase from Australia more than 
compensated for lower supplies from India and flat exports 
from Brazil.
Iron ore prices were strong and averaged 4% higher at 
$135/tonne (Platts 62% Fe CFR China) (2012: $130/tonne). 
Index prices reached a high of $160/tonne in February 2013, 
but fell to a low of $1 10/tonne in May 2013, before stabilising 
at around $135/tonne towards the end of the year. Kumba’s 
pricing mechanism continued to evolve, with prices in China 
now mostly based on index values around the discharge 
date. In other markets, Kumba largely continues to use a 
quarterly pricing mechanism.
Operating performance
Kumba Iron Ore
Underlying operating profit increased slightly from  
$3,042 million to $3,047 million, principally as a result of  
1% stronger average export iron ore prices and the impact 
of the weaker South African rand, partly offset by a 1% 
decrease in export sales volumes. Total operating costs  
rose by 20% in local currency terms, driven primarily by 
above-inflation cost increases and the mining of 47.5 Mt  
of additional waste at Sishen and Kolomela mines.
Total iron ore output decreased by 2% to 42.4 Mt, mainly  
owing to production losses at Sishen mine, partially offset 
by the strong performance at Kolomela. Total tonnes mined 
at Sishen rose by 22% to 208.8 Mt (2012: 171.6 Mt), of 
which waste mined amounted to 167.8 Mt, an increase  
of 26% (2012: 133.5 Mt) as the planned waste ramp up 
continues to alleviate the current pit constraints. The mine’s 
iron ore production, however, decreased by 8% to 30.9 Mt 
(2012: 33.7 Mt). Production from the DMS plant was mainly 
impacted by availability of material from the pit and resulted 
in 12% lower output for the year. At the Jig plant, production 
was in line with the prior year although still below design 
capacity owing to feedstock quality constraints. The mine 
was hampered further by several Section 54 safety 
stoppages relating to the operation of trackless mobile 
machinery in August 2013, and the subsequent gradual 
ramp up of the mine. The Sishen mine pit is currently 
constrained, resulting in insufficient exposed ore. A 
production recovery plan to address the current pit 
constraints and a longer term operational optimisation 
strategy are being implemented. 
Kolomela continued its strong performance in 2013, 
increasing production by 26% to 10.8 Mt (2012: 8.5 Mt). 
Production exceeded monthly design capacity for most  
of the year, and reached a new record level of 1.04 Mt for  
the month during October 2013. Kolomela’s total tonnage 
mined increased by 38% to 59.9 Mt (2012: 43.5 Mt), of 
which waste mined amounted to 46.7 Mt (2012: 33.5 Mt),  
an increase of 39%. 
Production at Thabazimbi mine was 24% lower at  
0.6 Mt (2012: 0.8 Mt), mainly as a result of partial plant 
shutdowns towards the end of 2013. An agreement 
regulating the sale and purchase of iron ore between  
SIOC and ArcelorMittal South Africa Limited (ArcelorMittal 
S.A.), which became effective on 1 January 2014, may 
enable Thabazimbi life of mine to be extended through  
the introduction of low-grade beneficiation technologies.
  Image 
Construction work  
at the mine site of  
the Minas-Rio iron  
ore project. By year  
end, the project was 
84% complete overall, 
with the beneficiation 
plant 83% complete  
and the 525-kilometre 
pipeline almost fully 
assembled.
57
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Kumba’s total sales volumes were 1% lower at 43.7 Mt 
(2012: 44.4 Mt) as both export and domestic sales volumes 
decreased by 1% to 39.1 Mt (2012: 39.7 Mt) and 4.6 Mt 
(2012: 4.7 Mt), respectively. The lower export sales volumes 
were mainly the result of production losses at Sishen, which 
reduced export stock levels across the value chain, but were 
mostly offset by the performance from Kolomela. Export 
sales volumes to China accounted for 68% of the company’s  
total export volumes for the year, compared to 69% in 2012. 
Sales volumes to Japan and South Korea rose by 13% to  
8.3 Mt and represented 21% of total export sales, with the 
remaining 1 1% going to Europe. In 2014, this mix is expected 
to change slightly as more iron ore is shipped to China and 
less to Europe.
Total finished product stockpiles amounted to 2.8 Mt at  
the end of the year, compared to 3.7 Mt at the end of 2012.
Kumba spent $455 million on stay-in-business capital 
(2012: $383 million), mainly on heavy mining equipment 
such as haul trucks and shovels for Sishen and Kolomela 
mines in support of the waste mining ramp-up.
Iron Ore Brazil
Iron Ore Brazil generated an underlying operating loss  
of $31 million, reflecting the pre-operational state of the 
Minas-Rio project.
Samancor
Underlying operating profit more than doubled to 
$210 million (2012: $103 million), driven by higher prices 
and focused cost control, supported by strong volumes. 
Production of ore was flat at 3.3 Mt (attributable basis) 
owing to a consistently strong operating performance and 
improved plant productivity at both GEMCO in Australia  
and Hotazel in South Africa. Alloy production increased by 
27% to 251,100 tonnes (attributable basis) as production 
was restored at TEMCO in Australia following a production 
suspension in 2012.
Projects
Kumba Iron Ore
Kumba aims to capitalise on its current mining right  
holdings and existing infrastructure to develop and sustain  
a project pipeline that enables a return to optimal levels  
of production, maintenance of these levels and growth  
in accordance with the needs of the market. 
Kumba is focused on restoring Sishen mine to its full 
capacity but is also looking to facilitate the expansion of 
Sishen mine to the west. A comprehensive feasibility study 
has been completed for the relocation of the Dingleton 
community and the company has engaged in an extensive 
consultation process with interested and affected parties, 
the community and the relevant government departments. 
The plan to resettle the community in the town of Kathu in 
the Northern Cape Province is expected to cost an 
estimated $457 million (nominal) over a four to six  
year period.
At Kolomela, technical studies have confirmed the  
mine’s capacity at 10 Mtpa, 1 Mtpa above its original  
design capacity. Kumba is currently studying  
opportunities for further incremental expansion  
of Kolomela’s production.
Significant progress has been made in the progression of  
the Sishen Western Expansion Project (SWEP). Project 
development remains within budget, and construction 
activities have been completed. A major milestone in the 
development of the project was the relocation of the  
T ransnet railway line from its previous position to the west  
of the current Sishen pit, to the far western extent of the  
SIOC property. The relocation of the railway line was 
completed in May 2013.
As a consequence of T ransnet having previously held  
the surface rights over the SWEP rail properties, the rail 
properties were excluded from the Sishen Mining Right area. 
SIOC applied to the DMR to obtain the necessary rights in 
relation to the rail properties, which were granted by the DMR 
on 11 February 2014. The granting of the mining right gives 
SIOC access to approximately 33% of the Sishen reserve 
included in SIOC’ s Life of Mine plan which is located on either 
side of the affected area. This portion of the reserve, which 
had been classified as probable, can now be reclassified  
as proven. SIOC will accordingly proceed with the 
implementation of its mining plan and will start waste  
stripping in the affected area from the second half of 2014.
Iron Ore Brazil
Construction of the 26.5 Mtpa Minas-Rio iron ore project 
continues in line with the revised plan announced in 2012. By 
the end of 2013, the project was 84% complete overall and 
is on schedule to deliver first ore on ship at the end of 2014.
The main schedule risks identified at the end of 2012  
have been resolved and over the past year significant 
construction and operational progress has been made. 
Highlights during 2013 include:
 • the mine’s cave suppression permit was granted in  
March and mine access approved in May, allowing 
stripping of surface overburden to be completed;
 • land release for the 230 kV transmission line was  
obtained, and the transmission line has been completed, 
ahead of schedule;
 • closure of the tailings dam was achieved in April,  
as planned, and the dam is near completion;
 • the pipeline and land-access permits were obtained on 
schedule and 481 kilometres of pipe (representing 91%  
of the total 525 kilometre length) had been installed by  
the end of 2013;
 • no outstanding permits or licences now impede the 
construction process, while good progress is being made 
in converting the installation permits to operating licences;
 • the beneficiation plant is 83% complete. Civil engineering 
work has finished on the first ball mill and primary crusher, 
while the long-distance conveyor belt is almost assembled;
 • assembly of the shiploader at Açu is 96% complete  
and caissons are being placed in position for the  
2,624 metre-long breakwater.
Potential risks for 2014 are being addressed and mainly 
relate to manpower availability to complete construction 
activities at the beneficiation plant and the completion of  
the breakwater.
58 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT IRON ORE AND MANGANESE Capital expenditure remains in line with the previously 
announced cost of $8.8 billion, including a centrally held 
contingency of $600 million. To date, $5.6 billion has been 
spent on the project and it is envisaged that $3.2 billion 
(inclusive of the $600 million contingency) will need to be 
spent in order to deliver the project. 
Samancor
The $279 million GEEP2 project (Anglo American’s 40% 
share: $1 12 million) was delivered, on schedule and budget, 
in the third quarter of 2013. The project will increase 
GEMCO’s beneficiated product capacity from 4.2 Mtpa  
to 4.8 Mtpa through the introduction of a dense media  
circuit by-pass facility. The expansion will also address 
infrastructure constraints by increasing road and port 
capacity to 5.9 Mtpa, creating 1.1 Mtpa of latent capacity  
for future expansion.
The $91 million (100% basis) high carbon ferromanganese 
furnace at the Metalloys smelter in South Africa was 
delivered, on schedule and budget, in the first quarter of 
2013. The project will add an additional 130,000 tonnes  
of capacity per year. 
Outlook
In 2014, it is anticipated that global crude steel demand will 
grow by 3%, with China’s production rising to approximately 
806 Mt, while growth in production in other developing 
countries is expected to be countered by a reduction in 
output in some of the developed markets. It is anticipated, 
however, that the supply and demand balance will shift in 
the second half of 2014, owing to more supply from Australia 
and Brazil and as demand growth begins to slow. This is 
expected to put some pressure on the iron ore price in the 
second half of the year. 
The Sishen mine recovery and optimisation plan expects  
a phased production increase from 30.9 Mt in 2013, to 
approximately 35 Mt in 2014. As the orebody dips and thins 
out towards the west, waste stripping of up to 270 Mtpa  
will be required for the production of 37 Mtpa at current 
marketing specifications, planned for 2016. 
Kumba anticipates total iron ore production, excluding 
Thabazimbi, of between 44 and 46 Mt in 2014. Export sales 
volumes are expected to be in line with 2013 levels.
The recovery in manganese ore pricing continued into 2013; 
however, muted demand expectations are expected to limit 
the rate and extent of the recovery in the near term.
Kumba Iron Ore update
21.4% undivided share of the Sishen mine  
mineral rights
On 28 March 2013, the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) 
dismissed the appeals of the DMR and Imperial Crown 
T rading 289 (Pty) Ltd (ICT) against the decision of the  
North Gauteng High Court, which, inter alia, confirmed that 
Sishen Iron Ore Company (Pty) Ltd (SIOC) became the 
exclusive holder of the mining rights at the Sishen mine in 
2008 when the DMR converted SIOC’ s old order rights, 
and further set aside the grant of a prospecting right to ICT 
by the DMR. The SCA held that as a matter of law and as at 
midnight on 30 April 2009, SIOC became the sole holder of 
the mining right to iron ore in respect of the Sishen mine, 
after ArcelorMittal S.A. failed to convert its undivided share 
of the old order mining right.
Both ICT and the DMR lodged applications for leave to  
appeal against the SCA to the Constitutional Court. The 
Constitutional Court hearing was held on 3 September 2013.
On 12 December 2013, the Constitutional Court granted  
the DMR’ s appeal in part against the SCA judgment. In a 
detailed judgment, the Constitutional Court clarified that 
SIOC, when it lodged its application for conversion of its old 
order right, converted only the right it held at that time (being 
a 78.6% undivided share in the Sishen mining right). The 
Constitutional Court further held that ArcelorMittal S.A. 
retained the right to lodge its old order right (21.4% undivided 
share) for conversion before midnight on 30 April 2009,  
but failed to do so. As a consequence of such failure by 
ArcelorMittal S.A., the 21.4% undivided right remained 
available for allocation by the DMR.
The Constitutional Court ruled further that, based on the 
provisions of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources 
Development Act (MPRDA), only SIOC can apply for the 
residual 21.4% undivided share of the Sishen mining right. 
The grant of the mining right may be made subject to such 
conditions considered by the Minister to be appropriate, 
provided that the proposed conditions are permissible under 
the MPRDA. SIOC had previously applied for this 21.4%, and 
continues to account for 100% of what is mined from the 
reserves at Sishen mine. SIOC has however, in compliance 
with the Constitutional Court order, submitted a further 
application to be granted this right.
As a further consequence of this finding, the High Court’ s 
ruling setting aside the prospecting right granted by the DMR 
to ICT also stands.
The findings made by the Constitutional Court are favourable 
to both SIOC and the DMR. SIOC’ s position as the only 
competent applicant for the residual right protects SIOC’ s 
interests. The DMR’ s position as custodian of the mineral 
resources on behalf of the nation, and the authority of the 
DMR to allocate rights, has also been ratified by the Court.
ArcelorMittal S.A. supply agreement 
The dispute between SIOC and ArcelorMittal S.A. regarding 
the contract mining agreement had been referred to 
arbitration in 2010. In December 201 1, the parties agreed  
to delay the arbitration proceedings until the final resolution 
of the mining rights dispute (see above). Interim Pricing 
Agreements were implemented to 31 December 2013.
In November 2013, SIOC and ArcelorMittal S.A. entered into 
a new Supply Agreement regulating the sale and purchase 
of iron ore between the parties which became effective 
from 1 January 2014. This agreement, subject to certain 
express conditions, is contemplated to endure until the end 
of Life of Mine for the Sishen mine.
The conclusion of this agreement settled the arbitration  
and the various other disputes between the companies.
Following the Constitutional Court ruling (see above), the 
sale of iron ore from SIOC to ArcelorMittal S.A. will remain 
regulated by the recently concluded Supply Agreement.
59
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Key financial and non-financial performance indicators
$ million (unless otherwise stated) 2013
(1)
2012
(2)
Underlying operating profit 46 405
Underlying EBITDA 612 877
Capital expenditure 1,050 1,028
Share of Group underlying operating profit 0.7% 6%
Attributable return on capital employed 1% 9%
Non-financial indicators 2013 2012
Number of fatal injuries 0 0
Lost-time injury frequency rate 1.00 1.75
Total energy consumed in 1,000 GJ 14,706 14,787
Total greenhouse gas emissions in 1,000 tonnes CO
2
e 3,770 3,919
Total water consumed in 1,000 m
3
14,306 15,552
(1) 
Throughout the Metallurgical Coal commentary, all volumes are expressed on an attributable basis. 
(2) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements.  
See note 2 of the financial statements for details.
UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT
(2012: $405 m)
 $46 m
SHARE OF GROUP UNDERLYING 
OPERATING PROFIT
(2012: 6%)
0.7%
UNDERLYING EBITDA
(2012: $877 m)
$61 2 m
METALLURGICAL COAL
Seamus French 
CEO
Image 
Joy Mining site manager 
Manie Swanepoel and 
Metallurgical Coal’s head 
of operations Dieter 
Haage underground at 
the Moranbah North 
longwall. 
60 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT METALLURGICAL COAL BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Anglo American is Australia’s second largest metallurgical 
coal producer and is the third largest global exporter of 
metallurgical coal.
Our coal operations in Australia are based on the east coast, 
from where the business serves a range of customers 
throughout Asia and the Indian sub-continent, Europe and 
South America. Metallurgical Coal operates six mines in 
Australia, one wholly owned and five in which the company 
has a majority interest. Five of the mines are located in 
Queensland’s Bowen Basin: Moranbah North (metallurgical 
coal), Capcoal (metallurgical and thermal coal), Foxleigh 
(metallurgical coal), Dawson (metallurgical and thermal coal) 
and Callide (thermal coal). Drayton mine (thermal coal) is  
in the Hunter Valley, New South Wales. All of the mines are  
in well-established locations and have direct access to rail 
and port facilities at Dalrymple Bay and Gladstone in 
Queensland, and at Newcastle in New South Wales.
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
Metallurgical coal, composed of coking coal and PCI  
coal, is an essential raw material in blast-furnace steel 
production, which represents approximately 70% of  
global crude steel output.
Global metallurgical coal supply amounts to approximately 
1.1 billion tonnes per year. China is the biggest consumer of 
metallurgical coal, with total consumption of approximately 
754 Mt in 2013. Owing to its large domestic metallurgical 
coal production, China only needs to import about 10%,  
or 74 Mt, of its total metallurgical coal requirement. This, 
however, represents a significant proportion (26%) of the 
total global seaborne metallurgical coal market.
In 2013, the international seaborne metallurgical coal 
market totalled around 285 Mt, the major consuming 
regions being China, Japan, Europe, India, South Korea, 
Brazil and Taiwan. On average, Australia supplies roughly 
60% of the seaborne metallurgical coal market.
Metallurgical coal contracts are predominantly priced on  
a quarterly basis relative to the market benchmark price, 
with a growing proportion being priced on a monthly or 
index basis.
Source: CRU, Metallurgical Coal Market Outlook, 
published in February 2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
%
China 754
Europe 75
CIS 70
Japan 66
India 44
Other Asia    41
North America 29
South America 23
Rest of World  14
T otal 1,116
68
7
6
6
4
4
2
2
1
100
Source: CRU, Metallurgical Coal Market Outlook, 
published in February 2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
%
China 675
Oceania 174
North America 118
CIS 85
Rest of the World 64
T otal 1,116
60
16
11
8
5
100
Moranbah North (88%) is an underground longwall mining 
operation with a mining lease covering 100 km
2
. Coal is 
mined from the Goonyella Middle Seam, approximately 
200 metres below the surface. In 2013, with two planned 
longwall moves, the mine produced 4.9 million tonnes (Mt) 
of hard coking coal (HCC).
Capcoal (70%) operates an underground and an open cut 
mine, with a second underground mine put into care and 
maintenance in July 2013. Capcoal produced 6.1 Mt of hard 
coking, pulverised coal injection (PCI) and thermal coals for 
the year.
Dawson (51%) is an open cut operation, which produced 
4.0 Mt of coking and thermal coals in 2013.
Foxleigh (70%) is an open cut operation, with 2013 output  
of 2.0 Mt of high quality PCI coal.
Metallurgical Coal owns an effective 23% interest in the 
Jellinbah and Lake Vermont mines in Queensland, with 
combined (attributable) production of 2.5 Mt of coking,  
PCI and thermal coals in 2013.
In Canada, Peace River Coal (100%) open cut metallurgical 
coal mine in British Columbia mainly serves customers in 
Europe, Japan and South America. In 2013, Peace River 
Coal produced 1.7 Mt of metallurgical coal, an increase of 
22% over the prior year. 
  Image 
Arrival of the new 
tunnel-boring machine 
(TBM) at the Grosvenor 
project in October 2013 – 
the first time a TBM has 
been deployed at a coal 
mine in Queensland.
61
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 STRATEGY
Emerging markets, particularly in the Asia-Pacific  
region, are expected to remain the driving force behind 
metallurgical coal demand owing to their continuing need 
for steel for infrastructure, housing and consumer goods. 
Metallurgical Coal’s strategy is to increase the value of the 
business by optimising existing operations and investing in 
growth projects in the supply regions best placed to produce 
the high margin export metallurgical coals sought by its 
customers. In order to implement this strategy:
 • A structured programme of business improvement  
has been designed to deliver industry-best operational 
performance over the existing asset base, targeting 
longwall performance at the underground operations  
and key equipment at the open cut mines;
 • Metallurgical Coal continues to progress its attractive 
organic growth pipeline in Australia and Canada, which  
has the potential to increase HCC production in line with 
growing market demand.
Operating safely, sustainably and responsibly
Water management and mine rehabilitation remain 
important areas of environmental focus for Metallurgical 
Coal. Climate variability in the regions in which Metallurgical 
Coal operates requires water management strategies that 
are equally effective in periods of flood and drought. 
Metallurgical Coal’s rehabilitation strategy requires 
disciplined management of disturbed land and the 
development of mine closure plans.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW
Metallurgical Coal recorded an underlying operating  
profit of $46 million, 89% lower than the 2012 figure of 
$405 million. This was attributable to a 24% decrease in  
the average quarterly HCC benchmark coal price, partially 
offset by the implementation of significant cost reductions 
initiated in 2012, a 9% increase in metallurgical coal sales 
volumes, and favourable exchange rate movements in the 
Australian dollar.
A focus on high margin products has resulted in a favourable 
product mix towards higher quality coking coal, with the 
proportion of sales of HCC to PCI increasing by 3% to 70%.
Metallurgical Coal continues to focus on cost reductions, 
with Australian and Canadian export FOB cash unit costs 
reducing by 8% and 15%, respectively.
Safety and environment
There were no fatal injuries at Metallurgical Coal’s 
operations in 2013. The lost-time injury frequency and  
total recordable frequency rates of 1.00 and 1.48 were the 
lowest on record and represent a respective improvement 
of 43% and 36% over 2012. These results were attributable  
to visible and proactive leadership presence in the field, 
increased accountability and specific monitoring of 
supervisor safety performance. A reduction in the overall 
high level risk profile was achieved through formal 
contractor management improvements and increased  
focus on the management of high level risks, such as  
those associated with vehicles and machinery.
To assist in mitigating the emissions that may contribute  
to climate change and to reduce exposure to the carbon 
pricing mechanism, Metallurgical Coal has expanded the 
German Creek Power Station by more than 12 MW per 
annum and, in doing so, is reducing CO
2
e emissions by 
capturing methane that would otherwise be vented,  
and producing electricity. Metallurgical Coal has also 
implemented a number of business improvement projects 
that enhance heavy mining equipment efficiency in order  
to reduce fuel usage.
Markets
Anglo American weighted average  
achieved sales prices  
($/tonne) 2013 2012
Export metallurgical coal (FOB) 140 178
Export thermal coal (FOB Australia) 84 96
Domestic thermal coal 39 37
Attributable sales volumes  
(’000 tonnes) 2013 2012
Export metallurgical coal 19,045 17,413
Export thermal coal 6,372 6,043
Domestic thermal coal 6,125 6,921
Australian metallurgical coal production continued at  
record levels in the second half of 2013, with seaborne 
exports reaching an all-time high of 16.3 Mt in October 2013 
(194 Mt annualised), and totalling 169.7 Mt for the year 
(2012: 144.5 Mt). This increased production, combined  
with sustained high export levels from the US and Canada, 
created an oversupply of seaborne metallurgical coal for  
the year.
Quarterly benchmark prices for seaborne metallurgical  
coal dropped sharply in the latter half of the year, reaching a 
four-year low of $145/tonne in the third quarter. The average 
2013 HCC quarterly price fell by 24% to $159/tonne from 
the 2012 average of $210/tonne.
Around 75% of Anglo American’s metallurgical coal  
sales were placed against term contracts with quarterly 
negotiated price settlements, while the balance of sales 
comprised short term priced transactions. HCC accounted 
for 70% of Metallurgical Coal’s export metallurgical coal 
sales in 2013, an increase of 3%, as a result of the focus on 
high margin production.
Operating performance
Attributable production  
(’000 tonnes) 2013 2012
Export metallurgical coal 18,656 17,664
Export thermal coal 6,264 6,046
Domestic thermal coal 6,239 6,925
Export metallurgical coal production increased by 6% to  
a record 18.7 Mt, while export thermal coal production 
increased 4% to 6.3 Mt. Production improved by 30% at the 
underground operations owing to a significant step-change 
in performance over the past 18 months. Production at the 
open cut operations decreased by 5%, mainly as a result of 
excessive rainfall causing flooding and rail disruptions in the 
first quarter, and planned capacity reductions. Metallurgical 
Coal’s sustained focus on costs reduced FOB costs by 10%, 
despite export volumes increasing by 5%.
62 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT METALLURGICAL COAL Moranbah North’s underground operations delivered record 
production. Output rose by 39% following best practice 
longwall performance, driven in turn by a 45% year on year 
improvement in cutting hours, an increase in automated 
cutting, and a reduction in unplanned downtime.
Performance improved by 16% year on year at Capcoal’s 
underground operation, through increased reliability of the 
longwall, with a 15% improvement in cutting hours and 
improved coal clearance system uptime.
Record coal production was achieved at Foxleigh open  
cut mine, with a 4% increase over the prior year, on the  
back of productivity improvements arising from increased 
equipment availability and optimal alignment of equipment 
to pit conditions.
In Canada, Peace River Coal increased coal production by 
22%, reflecting improvements in mining design, greater 
productivity in mining operations as well as yield and 
throughput enhancements in the coal preparation plant.
Export thermal coal production was 4% higher for the year 
following productivity improvements.
Projects
The wholly owned Grosvenor project remains on target  
for first longwall production in 2016. All key permits and 
licences are in place. Critical engineering and procurement 
activities have been completed and the majority of the 
project budget has been contracted and committed. 
Surface construction is well advanced; earthworks and 
concrete are essentially complete; structural, mechanical 
and piping works are advancing well; and electrical works 
have commenced. The drift portal works are complete 
and underground development has commenced with the 
commissioning of a tunnel boring machine. 
As announced in July 2013, the capital costs to develop  
the Grosvenor project increased by $250 million to  
$1.95 billion owing to scope changes resulting from an 
investigation into the drift failure at Moranbah North in  
201 1 that led to a complete redesign of the Grosvenor  
drift and its construction method. Costs have also been  
impacted by adverse exchange rate movements during  
the construction phase.
Outlook
An oversupply of metallurgical coal has been generated  
by strong metallurgical production from Australia and high 
US exports, with metallurgical coal prices expected to 
remain subdued into 2014.
US exports are starting to reduce in response to lower 
prices; however, record Australian production has more  
than offset any reductions. Capacity increases from 
Australian greenfield supply in the second half of 2014  
will continue to limit any significant price improvement.
Seaborne metallurgical coal demand is expected to 
increase to around 305 Mt in 2014, approximately 8% 
higher than 2013.
Metallurgical Coal is positioned to take advantage of  
any future coal price increases as a result of its focus  
on delivering high margin, low cost capacity, and the 
demonstrated benefits of business improvement initiatives.
ADAPTIVE WATER 
MANAGEMENT 
A critical water-related challenge facing our 
Metallurgical Coal operations in Australia is significant 
variability in rainfall, with conditions often oscillating 
between severe drought and flood. In response, over 
the last two years, the business has proactively 
improved its ability to manage the risks associated  
with too much, or not enough water.
Our Capcoal, Dawson and Moranbah North mines in the 
Bowen Basin, Queensland, have invested a combined 
$110 million in better on-site water management, 
including extensive pump and piping works, improved 
flood protection infrastructure, road-sheeting works, 
and upgrades to underground mines, drainage network, 
storage and dewatering capacity. 
The potential benefits include: reducing the risk of mine 
pits being flooded; lessening the risk to staff, roads and 
machinery from flood damage; and storing water for 
future use on site, while providing storage capacity for 
excess water when high rainfall events occur.
The environmental benefits include reducing the 
volume of flood waters entering pits and ensuring that, 
when water is released, there is sufficient dilution of 
brackish mine water to reduce the risks to river animal 
and plant life and downstream water users. 
Image
 Environmental graduate Jessie Penton checking dam pump valves  
at Moranbah North.
Pillars of value:
For more on Pillars of value and our KPIs
See pages 14–15 and 18–19
63
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT
(2012: $793 m)
 $ 541 m
SHARE OF GROUP UNDERLYING 
OPERATING PROFIT
(2012: 13%)
8%
UNDERLYING EBITDA
(2012: $972 m)
$735 m
Key financial and non-financial performance indicators
$ million (unless otherwise stated) 2013 2012
(1)
Underlying operating profit 541 793
South Africa 356 482
Colombia 228 358
Projects and Corporate (43) (47)
Underlying EBITDA 735 972
Capital expenditure 217 266
Share of Group underlying operating profit 8% 13%
Attributable return on capital employed 23% 35%
Non-financial indicators 2013 2012
Number of fatal injuries 3 2
Lost-time injury frequency rate 0.18 0.20
Total energy consumed in 1,000 GJ 5,935 5,742
Total greenhouse gas emissions in 1,000 tonnes CO
2
e 1,583 1,620
Total water consumed in 1,000 m
3
11,044 10,398
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements.  
See note 2 of the financial statements for details.
THERMAL COAL
Godfrey Gomwe 
CEO
Image 
Anglo American  
Inyosi Coal (73% held  
by Thermal Coal) has  
a 50% interest in the 
Phola washing plant. 
Here, coal from Thermal 
Coal’s new Zibulo 
colliery is being washed 
at the plant in preparation 
for export.
64 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT THERMAL COAL BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Our Thermal Coal business operates in South Africa and 
Colombia. In South Africa, Thermal Coal wholly owns  
and operates seven mines. It also has a 73% stake in  
Anglo American Inyosi Coal (AAIC), a broad-based black 
economic empowerment entity. AAIC wholly owns two 
mines, Kriel and Zibulo, and has a 50% interest in the Phola 
washing plant, a joint operation with BHP Billiton. In addition, 
Thermal Coal has a 50% interest in the Mafube colliery, 
a joint operation with Exxaro.
The South African mines supply both the export and 
domestic markets, delivering thermal coal domestically to 
Eskom, the state-owned power utility and Sasol, a coal-to-
liquids producer. Exports are currently routed through the 
Richards Bay Coal Terminal (RBCT), in which it has a 24.2% 
shareholding, to customers throughout the Atlantic, 
Mediterranean and Asia-Pacific regions. 
In Colombia, Anglo American, BHP Billiton and 
GlencoreXstrata each have a one-third shareholding  
in Cerrejón, the country’s largest thermal coal exporter. 
In 201 1, an expansion (the P40 project) was approved  
to increase this capacity by 8 Mtpa to 40 Mtpa by 2015 
(13.3 Mtpa attributable). Cerrejón owns and operates its 
own rail and deep water port facilities and sells into the 
export thermal and pulverised coal injection markets.
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
Coal is the world’s most abundant source of fossil fuel 
energy. Exceeding known reserves of oil and gas, it 
accounts for approximately 41% of global electricity 
generation. Thermal coal is a significant component of 
global energy consumption, accounting for an estimated 
29% of primary energy demand in 2012. 
The bulk of coal production is used in power generation; 
decisions that affect the energy mix of power generation 
therefore influence coal demand. These include long  
term industry dynamics for nuclear, gas and renewable 
power generation and policy decisions on climate and 
environmental legislation.
In 2013, export seaborne thermal coal accounted for 
approximately 950 Mt or 13% of global thermal coal 
demand, with a large proportion of production coming  
from four key basins: Indonesia, Australia, Colombia and 
South Africa. Demand for seaborne traded thermal coal has 
increased by 53% since 2008, and is expected to continue 
to grow over the long term, driven by India and China’s 
growing reliance on imported thermal coal. The IEA World 
Energy Outlook 2013 forecasts coal consumption for 
electricity generation to grow by 1.2% per year (cumulative 
annual average growth rate) under its New Policies Scenario 
from 201 1 to 2035, with growth slowing after 2020 owing to 
the effect of environmental regulation.
In developed economies, demand is expected to steadily 
decline as environmental regulation hastens the retirement 
of older coal-fired power stations and reduces the incentive 
for new coal-fired capacity. The major risks to the medium  
term growth of export seaborne thermal coal revolve  
around the ability of India and China to sustain their rates  
of economic growth, as well as logistical constraints and 
cost-inflation pressures.
US thermal coal continues to be exported into the seaborne 
market; however the US domestic gas price (Henry Hub 
spot prices) has increased, thereby improving the 
competitiveness of coal within the domestic market and 
reducing the overhang of US thermal coal that made its  
way into thermal markets in 2012. 
GENERATING POWER  
FROM THE SUN
Mining is an energy-intensive business. However, we 
are committed to developing and investing in projects 
that optimise our energy use, benefit our operations  
and reduce our environmental impact. 
In South Africa, our Thermal Coal business is 
capitalising on its abundance of sunshine to develop 
solar energy farms that will generate electricity in the 
eMalahleni (Witbank) region of Mpumalanga province. 
Our Greenside colliery has commissioned a solar farm 
that will meet 25% of the power requirements at its 
main office complex. The plant cost $280,000 to build 
and is expected to generate 166 MWh every year, 
enough to power 23 average-sized households. The 
anticipated annual emissions reduction is the equivalent 
of planting 1,049 trees. 
In the longer term, solar plants are expected to compare 
favourably from a cost perspective with utility grid 
power and, while they will only supplement some of 
Thermal Coal’s energy needs, we expect to realise net 
cost savings.
Image
As part of Anglo American’s ECO 2 MAN programme, Thermal Coal has 
constructed this solar-energy farm which is designed to meet a quarter  
of the power requirements of the mine’s main office complex.
Pillars of value:
For more on Pillars of value and our KPIs
See pages 14–15 and 18–19
65
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 STRATEGY 
Thermal Coal’s strategic vision is to be a safe, material, high 
margin, thermal coal producer with a global footprint that 
participates in the most attractive seaborne thermal coal 
markets, while maintaining its domestic market commitments.
Thermal coal demand is being driven by Asia’s economic 
growth and its reliance on low cost, readily available supply. 
Although the export thermal coal market is currently in 
oversupply, it is expected to recover in the medium term as 
sustained lower pricing begins to erode high cost supply and 
as demand recovers. In South Africa, demand for new coal 
supply is increasing and is expected to continue to grow in 
order to supply Eskom’s future coal requirements for its 
existing and future power stations.
To maximise its asset value, Thermal Coal has implemented 
various business improvement initiatives based on 
understanding benchmark performance and aimed at 
driving value within its portfolio of operating mines.
The business improvement initiatives collectively form 
Project Khulisa, meaning to grow to full potential, and are 
designed to realise Thermal Coal’s full production and profit 
potential and implement cross-mine programmes to 
achieve these targets. Project Khulisa continued in 2013, 
and its targets are entrenched in Thermal Coal’s business 
processes. Thermal Coal also realised significant value by 
implementing an integrated mine planning process through 
its Enterprise Value Optimisation project, ensuring the 
highest possible margin is achieved given the available rail 
capacity, based on recent and expected Transnet Freight 
Rail (TFR) performance, market demand for varying coal 
products and price. 
OPERATING SAFELY, SUSTAINABLY  
AND RESPONSIBLY
Thermal Coal faces risks from water management and 
climate change. Coal mining has the potential to affect the 
quality of water in catchments that are already under stress 
– a risk that is mitigated by careful operational water 
management and the business’s leading water treatment 
facilities. Two carbon- and energy-related risks are the 
South African government’s proposed energy price 
increases, which could double Thermal Coal’s energy bill  
in South Africa over the next few years, and the anticipated 
introduction of a long term price on carbon. In South Africa, 
we are participating in a fact-building exercise with the 
government to help shape effective carbon policy that is 
aligned with the country’s development objectives. Energy 
security continues to be a risk for operations as Eskom 
strives to meet current and future electricity demand and 
keep its ageing power stations in good running condition.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW
Thermal Coal generated an underlying operating profit  
of $541 million, a 32% decrease over the prior year, primarily 
driven by lower average export thermal coal prices, partly 
offset by the impact of the weaker South African rand. 
Business performance was also affected by a 32 day strike 
at Cerrejón in the first quarter. 
Safety and environment
Sadly, three colleagues lost their lives while working at 
Thermal Coal operations in South Africa. One contractor 
was also fatally injured at Cerrejón, in Colombia. Thorough 
incident investigations were conducted to ensure that the 
root causes of these incidents are understood, addressed 
and shared across the Group. 
Over the past five years, Thermal Coal has continued  
to improve its performance in relation to injuries, which  
is reflected in the 42% reduction in lost-time injury  
frequency rate (LTIFR) from 0.31 in 2008 to the current  
0.18. Cerrejón achieved an LTIFR of 0.16, the lowest in the 
operation’s history.
Thermal Coal’s energy, greenhouse gas (GHG) and water 
footprints are managed through the implementation of 
Anglo American’s WETT and ECO
2
MAN programmes, and 
energy and GHG levels are trending well below business as 
usual projections.
Source: Wood Mackenzie, Thermal coal 
supply and demand overview, January 2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
%
Rest of World 235
China 226
Japan 133
India 131
South Korea 102
Europe 78
Taiwan 56
T otal 961
24
24
14
14
10
8
6
100
Source: Wood Mackenzie, Thermal coal 
supply and demand overview, January 2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
%
Indonesia 390
Australia 194
Russia 98
Rest of the World 82
Colombia 79
South Africa 74
United States 44
Total 961
41
20
10
8
8
8
5
100
66 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT THERMAL COAL Markets 
Anglo American weighted average  
achieved sales prices  
($/tonne) 2013 2012
South Africa export thermal coal (FOB) 77 92
South Africa domestic thermal coal 19 21
Colombia export thermal coal (FOB) 73 89
Attributable sales volumes  
(’000 tonnes) 2013 2012
South Africa export thermal coal 17,502 17,151
South Africa domestic thermal coal
(1) 
39,044 40,110
Colombia export thermal coal 11,152 10,926
(1) 
Includes domestic metallurgical coal of 91,800 tonnes in 2012.
International seaborne demand continues to grow (7%  
to 961 Mt); however the supply response to date has kept 
pace with demand. In 2013, the international thermal coal 
seaborne market remained in oversupply, despite supply 
disruptions that included the effects of industrial action  
in Colombia. This has kept prices suppressed and 
discouraged investment. 
Thermal coal prices generally continued their declining 
trend over the year, although with some volatility. Delivered 
prices into Europe (API2) fell below $75/tonne in June, their 
lowest in three years, before regaining some lost ground 
with a fourth quarter average price of $84.3/tonne. The 
average API2 price index was $81.5/tonne for the year.  
The average API4 (FOB, Richards Bay) index price also  
fell below $75/tonne in June, while the average for the year 
fell by approximately 14% to $80/tonne (2012: $93/tonne) 
to close at $85/tonne (2012: $89/tonne).
Generally, the lower prices have forced producers to  
seek productivity gains and ramp up volumes in order to 
reduce unit costs. In conjunction with newly commissioned 
infrastructure projects, this has resulted in strong supply-
side performance from various export countries. 
Depreciation of the Australian dollar and South African  
rand, which declined by 6% and 18% respectively against 
the US dollar, provided some relief for producers. 
Asia accounted for 75% of South African thermal coal 
shipments, 3% lower than 2012. South African thermal coal 
shipments out of RBCT reached a record high of 70.2 Mt, an 
increase of 3% over the prior year (2012: 68.3 Mt), bolstered 
by TFR’s improved performance. TFR also had a record 
calendar year with 70.5 Mt railed to RBCT, a 3% 
improvement over 2012 (68.5 Mt).
Operating performance
Attributable production  
(’000 tonnes) 2013 2012
South Africa export thermal coal 17,031 17,132
Colombia export thermal coal 11,002 11,549
South Africa Eskom coal 33,567 33,706
South Africa domestic other
(1)
5,992 6,293
(1) 
Includes domestic metallurgical coal of 74,100 tonnes for 2012.
South Africa
Underlying operating profit from South African operations 
decreased by 26% to $356 million, driven by 16% lower 
average export thermal coal prices, partially offset by the 
impact of the weaker South African rand (2013: $/ZAR 9.65, 
2012: $/ZAR 8.21 ). However, the continuation of cost 
control measures has contained cost increases in line with 
CPI in local currency terms, despite above-CPI increases for 
several major cost components.
Export production at 17.0 Mt was in line with the prior year 
with a 13% improvement in performance at Greenside 
offset by lower production at Goedehoop, owing to 
challenging mining conditions, and Landau following the 
slower than anticipated plant ramp-up following maintenance.
Colombia
At Cerrejón, underlying operating profit of $228 million was 
36% down on 2012, owing to the impact of lower thermal 
coal prices, partly offset by significant cost efficiencies  
(8% lower than 2012) and marginally higher sales volumes 
of 1 1.2 Mt, as the operation recovered strongly from the 
32-day strike in the first quarter.
Projects
In South Africa, the 1 1 Mtpa New Largo project is in 
feasibility and engagement with Eskom to finalise the  
coal supply agreement continues. The project is expected  
to be presented for board approval once the necessary 
permits have been obtained and the coal supply  
agreement concluded.
The Cerrejón P40 expansion project, to increase the port 
and logistics chain capacity to handle a total mine output of 
40 Mtpa (an additional 8.0 Mtpa), is progressing on schedule 
and budget.
Outlook
Demand for seaborne thermal coal is forecast to remain 
strong, driven mainly by growth in Asia, with China and India 
remaining the key markets. Atlantic demand is likely to be 
steady in the short term as new coal-fired capacity is being 
offset by the closure, in certain cases at the insistence of 
regulators, of older power stations. 
The significant tonnages of domestic coal produced  
by China and India, the two largest thermal coal import 
markets, will continue to act as a restraint on imported  
coal prices, a situation likely to be exacerbated as domestic 
producers adjust their prices to stay competitive against 
imported coal.
67
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Key financial and non-financial performance indicators
$ million (unless otherwise stated) 2013 2012
(1)
Underlying operating profit 1,739 1,736
Underlying EBITDA 2,402 2,288
Capital expenditure 1,011 1,214
Share of Group underlying operating profit 26% 28%
Attributable return on capital employed
(2)
25% 29%
Non-financial indicators
(3)
2013 2012
Number of fatal injuries 1 0
Lost-time injury frequency rate 0.20 0.20
Total energy consumed in 1,000 GJ 16,070 15,485
Total greenhouse gas emissions in 1,000 tonnes CO
2
e 1,694 1,640
Total water consumed in 1,000 m
3
38,525 35,667
(1)  
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements.  
See note 2 of the financial statements for details.
(2)  
Removing outstanding tax liability balances relating to the AA Sur divestment in 2012 and 2013, Copper attributable  
ROCE would fall to 24% in 2012, and 24% in 2013.
(3) 
Certain non-financial indicators relating to 2012 have been revised due to change requests made by the operations  
subsequent to the publication of the 2012 annual report.
UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT
(2012: $1,736 m)
 $1 , 7 3 9 m
SHARE OF GROUP UNDERLYING 
OPERATING PROFIT
(2012: 28%)
26%
UNDERLYING EBITDA
(2012: $2,288 m)
$2,402 m
BASE METALS AND MINERALS – COPPER
Hennie Faul 
CEO: Copper
Duncan Wanblad 
CEO: Base Metals and Minerals
Image  
In the tankhouse at  
the Chagres smelter, 
molten copper is poured 
into moulds to form 
copper cathodes.
68 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT BASE METALS AND MINERALS – COPPER BUSINESS OVERVIEW
We have interests in six copper operations in Chile. The 
Mantos Blancos and Mantoverde mines are wholly owned 
and we hold a 50.1% interest in Anglo American Sur (AA Sur), 
which includes the Los Bronces and El Soldado mines and 
the Chagres smelter. We also hold a 44% shareholding in 
the Collahuasi mine. The mines produce a combination of 
copper in concentrate and copper cathodes together with 
associated by-products such as molybdenum and silver.
In Peru, we have an 81.9% interest in the Quellaveco project 
and we wholly own the Michiquillay project.
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
Copper’s principal use is in the wire and cable markets 
because of the metal’s electrical conductivity and corrosion 
resistance. Applications that make use of copper’s electrical 
conductivity, such as wire (including the wiring used in 
buildings), cables and electrical connectors, make up 
approximately 60% of total global demand. The metal’s 
corrosion-resistant properties find numerous applications  
in the construction industry, particularly plumbing pipe and 
roof sheeting, which accounts for a further 20% of demand. 
Copper’s thermal conductivity also makes it suitable for use 
in heat-transfer applications such as air conditioning and 
refrigeration, which constitute some 10% of total demand. 
Other applications include structural and aesthetic uses.
Access to quality orebodies, located in regions providing 
stable political, social and regulatory support for responsible 
and sustainable mining, is likely to continue to be the key 
factor distinguishing project returns and mine profitability. 
Such orebodies are scarce, however, and it will be 
increasingly necessary for mining companies to develop 
assets in more challenging environments. 
With no fundamental technological shifts expected in the 
short to medium term, forecast long term demand is likely  
to be underpinned by growth in copper’s electrical uses, 
particularly wire and cable in construction, automobiles  
and electricity infrastructure. The key growth area will 
continue to be the developing world, led by China and, in  
the longer term, other Asian economies including India, 
where industrialisation and urbanisation on a large scale 
continue to propel copper demand growth. The intensity  
of copper consumption is still at a high level in the case of 
China, while in India it is on an upward trajectory. This is in 
contrast with the advanced economies and their much  
lower levels of intensity.
In spite of near term supply growth that may well be higher 
than that of the past six or seven years, constraints on the 
supply side are likely to prove a structural feature of the 
market. Such constraints will be driven by continuing 
declines in ore grades at maturing existing operations, a  
lack of capital investment and under-exploration in new 
projects, as well as political and environmental challenges  
in many current and prospective copper areas.
The industry is capital-intensive and is likely to become 
more so as high grade surface deposits are exhausted and 
deeper and/or lower grade deposits are developed in more 
challenging locations. Combined with the need to develop 
infrastructure in new geographies, greater economies of 
scale will be required if mines are to be commercially viable. 
Scarcity of water in some countries, such as Chile and Peru, 
are also likely to necessitate the construction of capital- and 
energy-intensive desalination plants.
During the period 2000-2012, China increased its share  
of first-use refined metal consumption from 12% to an 
estimated 41%. Demand growth there continued to 
increase faster than in the rest of the world, so that in 2013, 
China’s share of refined demand was estimated to have 
reached 44%.
STRATEGY 
Copper’s strategy is to generate industry-leading returns  
by safely and sustainably creating value for all stakeholders 
through operational excellence, disciplined growth and an 
optimised portfolio. The business continues to explore for 
low operating cost and long life development opportunities 
and to evaluate the longer term project options in its 
portfolio, including Quellaveco and the Los Bronces District. 
In September 2013, Anglo American gave notice of its 
decision to withdraw from the Pebble copper project in 
Alaska. As a result, the investment in Pebble was written  
off in full, resulting in a charge of $31 1 million, including  
exit costs. 
Source: Wood Mackenzie – Global copper 
short term outlook, January 2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mt
China 
Europe 
Rest of World 
North America 
Japan 
South Korea 
Russia 
India 
Brazil 
9.2
3.4
2.4
2.3
1.0
0.7
0.7
0.5
0.5
69
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW
Copper generated an underlying operating profit of  
$1,739 million, in line with the prior year. Higher sales 
volumes from Los Bronces and Collahuasi, leading to  
lower unit costs were offset by the decline in the average 
realised copper price. Operating profit also benefited  
from lower power prices, exploration and study costs. 
Safety and environment
During the year, Copper recorded a single loss of life  
arising from a height-related incident at its Mantos Blancos 
operation. The lost-time injury frequency rate was unchanged 
at 0.20. The business’s safety endeavours continue to 
concentrate on risk and change management, learning  
from incidents and contractor management processes.
Water supply is one of the major challenges for our 
operations and process optimisation continues in order to 
minimise water consumption. The recirculation system at 
Los Bronces is now recycling 100% of processed water  
and several new water supply projects at Los Bronces were 
implemented during the year. Significant progress has also 
been made on the Mantoverde desalination plant, which is 
expected to start delivering water to the operation in the first 
quarter of 2014. As a result of the initiatives, water savings of 
44% have been delivered compared to business as usual.
Ongoing reviews by our operations have highlighted 
challenges from an environmental standpoint where we  
are evaluating potential environmental impacts generated 
by our operations, or where we have not sufficiently 
implemented compensatory measures. These are primarily 
centred around mine-affected water quality and backlogs  
in reforestation programmes as per original permit 
conditions. These anomalies are being addressed in 
conjunction with the environmental agencies. 
Copper’s social development strategy aims to deliver a 
lasting, net-positive benefit to its host communities, notably 
in the fields of education and local economic development. 
One notable programme is the Emerge enterprise 
development programme, for which the government of 
Chile awarded Copper the prestigious ‘More for Chile’ 
award. This initiative, begun in 2006, has supported more 
than 40,000 entrepreneurs, of whom more than 80%  
are women. In Peru, the business has made a substantial 
contribution to early education through its programme  
of working with children aged nought to three, as well as  
with their mothers and fathers in order to improve  
parenting skills.
Copper stocks and price
0
250
500
750
1,000
Jan 10 Jan 13 Jan 12 Jan 11
Copper price (c/lb) 
Copper stocks (kt) 
100
150
200
250
300
350
500
450
400
Source: Anglo American Commodity Research
Shanghai Stocks 
LME Stocks 
Copper price (c/lb) 
Comex Stocks 
70 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT BASE METALS AND MINERALS – COPPER Markets 
Average price 2013 2012
Average market prices (c/lb) 332 361
Average realised prices (c/lb) 326 364
The copper price rose at the start of 2013 to a high of  
374 c/lb, buoyed by Chinese buying ahead of the Lunar  
New Year and a temporary resolution to the fiscal stalemate 
in the US. Underwhelming macro-economic data releases 
and a sharp rise in LME inventories followed, which resulted 
in prices retreating to 301 c/lb by the end of June. A hot 
summer in China, increasing financial demand and tightness 
in the scrap market then underpinned a modest recovery. 
However, strong mine supply and surging concentrate 
imports began to weigh on sentiment by November, with 
prices falling back to 314 c/lb, before ending the year at  
335 c/lb. For the full year, the realised price averaged  
326 c/lb, a decrease of 10% compared with 2012. This 
included a negative provisional price adjustment of  
$92 million versus a positive adjustment of $47 million  
for 2012.
Operating performance
Attributable production (tonnes) 2013 2012
Copper 774,800 659,700
Attributable copper production of 774,800 tonnes was  
17% higher than in 2012, driven by improved operating 
performance at Los Bronces and Collahuasi.
Production at Los Bronces was 14% higher at 416,300 
tonnes, owing to continued strong throughput performance. 
Reduced mine congestion and de-bottlenecking at the 
primary crushers has improved continuity of ore supply  
and throughput at both processing plants. Improvements 
implemented in the Confluencia milling and flotation 
processes have also resulted in higher recoveries. Mine 
development continues, with the initial opening of the next 
two phases of ore supply completed during the period. 
Large scale mining equipment is now in place in these 
phases, with development stripping accelerating in the 
second half of 2013.  
At Collahuasi, production increased by 58%, with 
Anglo American’s attributable output climbing to 
195,600 tonnes. Following the SAG 3 stator motor 
replacement and repowering in the second quarter of  
the year, plant stability and mill throughput performance 
have improved significantly. Production also benefited  
from higher than planned grades. 
Production at El Soldado decreased by 4% to 51,500 
tonnes, owing to lower grades. The development of the next 
major phase of ore supply has slowed as mining activities 
intersected a geological fault, impacting ore availability  
in the last quarter of the year. The lack of ore has been 
partially mitigated by the processing of slag from the nearby 
Chagres smelter. 
Production at Mantoverde decreased by 9% owing to  
lower grades, while output at Mantos Blancos was in line 
with the prior year.
During 2013, Copper undertook a full review of its contracted 
services processes, identifying a number of improvements 
which are now being implemented. Cost savings have 
already started to be realised and the benefits are expected 
to increase.
Projects
In Peru, the Quellaveco copper project was evaluated as 
part of the Group asset review, which resulted in a decision 
to reconfigure the project so that its economic returns are 
more robust. A final review of the project is expected during 
2015. During the intervening period, work will continue on 
the project site, aimed mainly at progressing the Asana river 
diversion tunnel, along with various social and community 
programmes, thereby solidifying the already high social 
support for the project.
In the Los Bronces District, the conceptual study of the  
Los Sulfatos deposit has commenced and the permits 
required to start sub-surface hydrogeological drilling were 
received in the final quarter of 2013.
Outlook
Production levels in 2014 are expected to be impacted  
by lower ore grades at Los Bronces and Collahuasi. At  
Los Bronces, costs are expected to rise as a result of 
ongoing mine development, along with restoring mine 
flexibility. At El Soldado, the lack of ore availability is 
expected to result in a decrease in production over the  
next two years, before recovering in 2016. 
Challenges remain in managing continuing industry-wide 
input cost pressures; however the contracted services 
review conducted in 2013 is expected to alleviate some  
of this pressure. Ongoing market concerns arising from 
uncertainties over the near term outlook for the global 
economy and new supply coming on line may lead to  
short term volatility in the copper price. The long term 
fundamentals for copper, however, remain strong, 
predominantly driven by robust demand from the  
emerging economies and supply constraints owing to 
ageing mines and steadily declining average grades.
71
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Key financial and non-financial performance indicators
$ million (unless otherwise stated) 2013 2012
(1)
Underlying operating (loss)/profit (44) 26
Underlying EBITDA (37) 50
Capital expenditure
(2)
(28) 100
Share of Group underlying operating profit (0.7)% 0.4%
Attributable return on capital employed (2)% 1%
Non-financial indicators 2013 2012
Number of fatal injuries 0 1
Lost-time injury frequency rate 0.17 0.11
Total energy consumed in 1,000 GJ 15,577 19,154
Total greenhouse gas emissions in 1,000 tonnes CO
2
e
(3)
884 1,423
Total water used for primary activities in 1,000 m
3
4,175 7,262
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements.  
See note 2 of the financial statements for details.
(2)  
Cash capital expenditure at Nickel of $76 million is offset by the capitalisation of $104 million of net operating  
cash generated by Barro Alto which has not yet reached commercial production.
(3)  
Greenhouse gas emissions data for 2012 has been revised due to system corrections applied subsequent to  
the publication of the 2012 annual report.
UNDERLYING OPERATING  
(LOSS)/PROFIT
(2012: $26 m)
 $
(
44
)
 m
SHARE OF GROUP UNDERLYING 
OPERATING PROFIT
(2012: 0.4%)
(
0.7
)
%
UNDERLYING EBITDA
(2012: $50 m)
$
(
37
)
 m
BASE METALS AND MINERALS – NICKEL
Ruben Fernandes 
CEO: Nickel, Niobium and Phosphates
Duncan Wanblad 
CEO: Base Metals and Minerals
Image  
Production operator 
Edineia Liberato Pereira 
takes notes during an 
inspection of the crusher 
at Barro Alto’s ore 
preparation plant.
72 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT BASE METALS AND MINERALS – NICKEL BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Our Nickel business unit comprises two Brazilian operating 
assets: Barro Alto and Codemin, both ferronickel producers 
in the state of Goiás. Within the portfolio there are also two 
promising growth projects, Jacaré and Morro Sem Boné, 
both of which are laterite deposits in Brazil.
Operations at Loma de Níquel in Venezuela ceased 
permanently in November 2012. 
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
Nickel demand is closely linked to that of the stainless steel 
industry, which consumes two-thirds of the metal and 
virtually all ferronickel production. Nickel used in the 
manufacture of alloy steel and other non-ferrous alloys 
accounts for a further 23% of output.
China is the largest stainless steel producing country, with 
close to 50% of world production in 2013. Nearly 80% of 
China’s nickel requirements is produced domestically. Of 
this, nickel pig iron (NPI) accounted for around 69% in 2013. 
The next significant stainless steel producing regions are 
Europe, with 19% of world output, India (9%), Japan (8%), 
other Asia (8%) and the US accounting for 5%.
Nickel can be produced from two different ore types: 
sulphides and laterites. This has resulted in a large number 
of processing technologies that have made the industry a 
very complex one, with high processing costs and capital 
intensity. Production is concentrated among the biggest five 
producers, which between them are responsible for almost 
half of global output.
The nickel industry faced a variety of challenges in 2013. 
Demand was negatively affected by macro-economic 
uncertainty, including at various points through the year, 
concerns surrounding the US Federal Reserve’s ‘tapering’ 
policies, the state of the euro zone economy, and a 
slowdown in China. 
Nickel producers are going through a challenging period 
as the price of nickel remains depressed, largely owing  
to increased NPI output from Chinese smelters, which  
left the market in surplus in 2013. Chinese NPI production 
depends on high grade, low iron content ore imported  
from Indonesia; however, owing to shifts in Indonesian 
government policy, there is uncertainty around the 
sustainability of Indonesian ore supply.
STRATEGY 
Nickel’s strategy is currently operationally focused, 
concentrating on stabilising Barro Alto’s production while 
the nickel price is low, so as to achieve nominal capacity  
in time to benefit from the next cyclical price increase. 
Management is currently implementing strategic short  
term initiatives to deliver an optimised operation ahead  
of the furnaces rebuild at Barro Alto. Delivery of efficient 
production is supported by business improvement initiatives 
which are driving improved output and reduced costs and 
will extend the lives of both Barro Alto and Codemin. At full 
production, both operations will be positioned in the first  
half of the industry’s cash-cost curve.
Our Nickel business continues to assess its portfolio of 
expansionary and exploration projects. In 2013, progress 
was made on environmental licensing for both Jacaré and 
Morro Sem Boné.
Nickel has identified that a key driver for operational 
efficiency is to attract and retain a suitably qualified 
workforce. The business has focused on recognising high 
performance through competitive remuneration and 
employee development programmes and, during 2013,  
was recognised as one of Brazil’s “Top 35” companies to 
start a career with, and as one of its 150 best companies 
to work for.
890
336
177
150
84
78
56
49
32
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
kt
China 
Europe 
Japan 
North America 
Rest of World 
South Korea 
India 
Taiwan 
Russia and Caspian 
Source: Wood Mackenzie – Global nickel short term outlook, 
January 2014
73
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Operating safely, sustainably and responsibly
Safety and sustainable development are central to Nickel’s 
strategy. The main focus of Nickel’s environmental strategy 
is on water, energy and greenhouse gas emissions. 
Opencast mining processes can have a notable impact  
on the landscape, and full rehabilitation can be challenging. 
In order to overcome this, Nickel has partnered with 
biodiversity NGOs and universities to develop regional land 
and biodiversity management plans that are aligned with 
mine closure plans. 
Recognising the importance of the role our Nickel business 
plays in the local community, significant investment has 
been made in long term programmes relating to female 
empowerment, sexual and reproductive health, citizenship, 
rural entrepreneurship and local government. In recognition 
of this work, and for the sixth consecutive year, Exame 
business magazine gave Nickel one of the most prestigious 
sustainability awards in Brazil for being a role model 
company in sustainable development. 
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW
Nickel reported an underlying operating loss of $44 million. 
The 2012 underlying operating profit of $26 million included 
a self-insurance recovery of $57 million, in addition to which 
underlying operating profit in 2013 was affected by a 14% 
decline in the LME nickel price and increased discounts 
arising from weaker market conditions, compensated in  
part by reductions in corporate and project spend. The 
underlying operating result for Barro Alto continues to  
be capitalised.
A more challenging market outlook, the need for furnace 
rebuilding and updated operational planning have led to a 
reduced valuation for Barro Alto, for which an impairment, 
post- tax, of $529 million (relating to a value-in-use carrying 
value assessment) and a write-off of $195 million (relating  
to existing furnace equipment which is to be rebuilt) were 
recognised in 2013.
Safety and environment
Nickel operated without any loss of life in 2013, but  
recorded a 55% deterioration in lost-time injury frequency 
rate (LTIFR) to 0.17 (2012: 0.1 1 ). This prompted an increased 
focus on risk and change management, on preventing 
incidents during the upcoming furnaces rebuild, and on 
maintenance stoppages.
There has been good progress towards the business’s  
2015 environmental targets, with initiatives delivering water 
savings of 2.6 million m
3
, energy savings of 3.3 million GJ 
and CO
2
 savings of 37,000 tonnes since 201 1.
Nickel stocks and price
0
300
250
200
175
150
125
100
75
50
25
Jan 10 Jan 13 Jan 12 Jan 11
Nickel price (c/lb) 
Nickel stocks (kt) 
0
500
750
250
1,000
1,250
2,500
2,000
2,250
1,500
1,750
Source: Anglo American Commodity Research
LME Stocks 
LME Price  
74 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT BASE METALS AND MINERALS – NICKEL Operating performance
Attributable nickel production 
(tonnes) 2013 2012
Nickel 34,400 39,300
Nickel production decreased by 12% to 34,400 tonnes, 
primarily as a consequence of the cessation of mining and 
production activities at Loma de Níquel.
Barro Alto produced 25,100 tonnes of nickel in 2013,  
16% higher than 2012. This increase reflects improved 
operational stability in the second half of the year, following 
the planned Line 2 sidewall rebuild and subsequent metal 
run-out in the first half.
Despite this improvement, equipment sensitivities remain. 
Barro Alto’s furnace rebuild was a focus in the second half  
of the year, with evaluation of the optimal design and 
construction scenario, as well as early engineering activities 
now well progressed.
Codemin produced 9,300 tonnes of nickel in 2013, slightly 
lower than 2012, as a result of a planned decline in grade.
Outlook
Production in 2014 is expected to be similar to 2013, as 
close monitoring of Barro Alto facilitates greater operational 
stability in advance of the furnace rebuilds. The first rebuild 
is expected to commence in late 2014, and the second in  
late 2015, with the rebuilds and associated ramp-ups fully 
completed during 2016. We currently expect production at 
Barro Alto and Codemin to be between 20,000 and 25,000 
tonnes in 2015, and between 35,000 and 38,000 tonnes  
in 2016, although this forecast may be revised as the  
Barro Alto rebuild timetable is finalised.
Short term prices are expected to remain under pressure 
owing to the prevailing macro-economic environment and 
ramp up of new nickel supply. If the change in Indonesian 
government policy (announced in early 2014) to ban nickel 
ore exports is sustained, this will tighten the nickel market 
and support strengthening prices. In any event, medium to 
longer term nickel prices are expected to improve owing to 
forecast demand growth outstripping that of supply.
Markets 
Average nickel price (c/lb) 2013 2012
Average market price (c/lb) 680 794
Average realised price (c/lb)
(1)
646 771
(1) 
Realised prices are now reported inclusive of Barro Alto sales. This has led to the 
restatement of the 2012 realised price from 765 c/lb to 771 c/lb.
After increasing moderately to 804 c/lb, LME nickel prices 
fell to a low of 622 c/lb in July as a result of economic 
concerns. These price declines led to a reduction in demand 
owing to the way in which stainless steel producers pass  
on raw material costs to their buyers with a one month lag. 
Further pressure came from the impact of increasing new 
nickel supply, most notably NPI in China.
The nickel market recorded a surplus of 102,000 tonnes for 
the year compared with a surplus of 48,000 tonnes in 2012. 
Nickel consumption increased by 9.1% to 1.9 million tonnes, 
but supply also rose following the ramping up of a number  
of new nickel plants. The growth in conventional supply was 
lower than expected as a result of problems at a number of 
new operations.
  Image 
Environmental 
engineers Hamanda 
Jansen (left) and  
Anita Marques  
take water-height 
readings at the dam  
at Barro Alto mine.
75
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Key financial and non-financial performance indicators
$ million (unless otherwise stated) 2013 2012
(1)
Underlying operating profit 150 169
Niobium 89 81
Phosphates 79 91
Projects and Corporate (18) (3)
Underlying EBITDA 176 196
Capital expenditure 237 94
Share of Group underlying operating profit 2% 3%
Attributable return on capital employed 24% 32%
Non-financial indicators
(2)
2013 2012
Number of fatal injuries 0 0
Lost-time injury frequency rate 0.31 0.39
Total energy consumed in 1,000 GJ 2,808 2,711
Total greenhouse gas emissions in 1,000 tonnes CO
2
e 110 94
Total water consumed in 1,000 m
3
8,382 8,498
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements.  
See note 2 of the financial statements for details.
(2)  
Certain non-financial indicators relating to 2012 have been revised due to change requests made by the operations  
subsequent to the publication of the 2012 annual report.
UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT
(2012: $169 m)
 $ 15 0 m
SHARE OF GROUP UNDERLYING 
OPERATING PROFIT
(2012: 3%)
2%
UNDERLYING EBITDA
(2012: $196 m)
$ 17 6 m
BASE METALS AND MINERALS –  
NIOBIUM AND PHOSPHATES
Ruben Fernandes 
CEO: Nickel, Niobium and Phosphates
Duncan Wanblad 
CEO: Base Metals and Minerals
Image  
Construction at the  
Boa Vista Fresh Rock 
Project, which will  
boost annual niobium 
production capacity 
from a current 4,500 
tonnes to approximately 
6,500 tonnes.
76 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT BASE METALS AND MINERALS – NIOBIUM AND PHOSPHATES BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Niobium
Our Niobium business, located in the cities of Catalão and 
Ouvidor, in Brazil’s Goiás state, accounts for about 10% of 
the country’s production (and 8-9% of global production) 
of the metal. In operation since 1973, the Boa Vista mine 
produces and exports approximately 4,500 tonnes of 
niobium per year. With the end of its weathered ore reserves 
approaching, Niobium is investing in adapting the existing 
plant to process fresh rock.
Phosphates
Our Phosphates business is the second largest phosphate 
fertiliser producer in Brazil. Its operations are vertically 
integrated, covering the mining of phosphate ore, 
beneficiation of the ore to produce phosphorus pentoxide 
(P
2
O
5
) concentrate, and further processing into 
intermediate and final products.
The Phosphates business has approximately 15% of  
Brazil’s known phosphate mineral resources. The Ouvidor 
mine currently produces, on average, around 5.8 Mt of ore 
per annum (on a dry basis). It is a prime deposit, containing 
some of Brazil’s highest grades of phosphate ore 
(approximately 13% P
2
O
5
), and has a remaining mine  
life of 20 years at current production rates.
Phosphate ore is treated at a beneficiation facility on the 
same site, with approximately 1.4 million tonnes per annum 
(Mtpa) of phosphate concentrate being produced at an 
average grade of around 35% P
2
O
5
. Phosphates operates 
two chemical processing complexes: one in Catalão, the 
other at Cubatão in the state of São Paulo. The company 
produces a wide variety of products for the Brazilian 
agriculture sector, including low analysis (approximately 
20% P
2
O
5
 content) and high analysis (40%-55% P
2
O
5
 
content) phosphate fertilisers, dicalcium phosphate (DCP) 
for the animal feed industry, as well as phosphoric and 
sulphuric acids for the food and animal feed industries.
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
Niobium
As an alloying agent, niobium brings unique properties  
to high strength steel alloys (HSSA), such as increased 
formability, corrosion resistance, weldability and strength 
under tough working environments, including extreme  
high or low temperatures.
Around 90% of total global niobium consumption is used  
as an alloying element, in the form of ferroniobium (FeNb)  
in high strength steels, which are used in the manufacture of 
automobiles, ships and high pressure pipelines, as well as in 
the petroleum and construction industries. The product is 
exported to major steel plants in Europe, the US and Asia 
(principally China, South Korea and Japan).
Phosphates
Phosphate fertiliser demand is driven by strong 
fundamental trends, including expanding food needs from  
a growing global population, changing dietary habits in 
major emerging economies such as China and India,  
and increased demand for biofuels.
Brazil, a major agricultural nation, is the fourth largest 
phosphate market globally and needs to import almost  
50% of its phosphate fertilisers. Anglo American’s 
phosphates’ assets are situated in the centre of Brazil’s 
major agricultural region and thus benefit from lower inland 
transportation costs and import taxes compared with 
competitors, in addition to being well placed to respond 
quickly to customer requirements.
8
0
1
2
4
6
7
3
5
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
Source: Alice web/Statcan and Anglo American analysis
2012 
2013 
650
300
350
450
550
600
400
500
Jan 12 Jan 13 Dec 13
Source: Fertilizer Week/CRU; ANDA.
77
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT BASE METALS AND MINERALS – NIOBIUM AND PHOSPHATES
STRATEGY 
Niobium and Phosphates’ core strategy is to expand  
existing operations and mineral resources in both 
commodities through a focus on operational excellence,  
and the execution of selected low cost, high return projects.
At Niobium, the $325 million investment in the Boa Vista 
Fresh Rock project is expected to consolidate the business 
as the second largest producer of niobium worldwide. It will 
do so by increasing production so that plant capacity is fully 
utilised, as well as replacing existing production, allowing the 
company to gain an increased market share in the HSSA 
market. Commissioning will start in the second half of 2014.
At Phosphates, significant brownfield expansion 
opportunities are currently being evaluated in order to  
meet the expected growing demand needs of the Brazilian 
agricultural market, which is strategically placed to benefit 
from global shifts in dietary habits, and where the outlook  
for the production of fertiliser products is very positive.
Operating safely, sustainably and responsibly
Niobium and Phosphates takes a risk-based approach  
to achieving our vision of zero harm to people and  
the environment. Focus areas for the business include  
reducing water and energy consumption, as well as 
greenhouse gas emissions. Health and wellness 
programmes are in place to improve the well-being  
of our workforce and increase productivity.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW
Underlying operating profit decreased by 1 1 % to $1 50 million, 
with lower realised sales prices at both Niobium and 
Phosphates and higher study costs in the year, partly offset 
by lower cash costs and the positive impact of the weaker 
Brazilian real on operating costs.
Safety and environment
During 2013, no fatal incidents were recorded in our 
Niobium and Phosphates business, which also saw an 
improvement in the lost time injury frequency rate to 
0.31(2012: 0.39). 
Detailed investigations of these incidents revealed that the 
root causes related largely to inadequate risk assessment 
and change management processes. The outcomes of 
these investigations, coupled with those conducted for 
medium- and high-potential incidents and existing safety 
priorities, resulted in a renewed focus on risk management 
training, a refinement of operational risk management 
procedures, and specific initiatives to address transportation 
risks, improve learning from incidents and increase safety 
communications. 
Greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption  
were higher in the year, mainly owing to changes in the 
Brazilian energy matrix. Consumption volumes remained 
approximately level with 2012, but the CO
2
 conversion 
factor, as advised by the Ministry of Mines and Energy,  
was increased in the year. Specific initiatives to reduce 
natural gas consumption at Cubatão’s dicalcium phosphate 
unit resulted in a 31,135 GJ saving, while the phosphoric  
acid plants in Cubatão and Catalão achieved a combined 
14,300 GJ reduction in electricity consumption.
Water consumption was marginally reduced owing to 
increased recycling, from 8.30 Mm
3
 in 2012 to 8.27 Mm
3
  
in 2013. 
Markets
Niobium
In 2013, our Niobium business exported 4,675 tonnes of 
niobium, representing an increase of 1 1% over the previous 
year. However, the average realised price was $39 per kg of 
niobium, a reduction of 5% compared with the $41 per kg 
achieved in 2012. 
Demand for niobium decreased by 5% owing to the 
lacklustre pace of recovery in European markets and  
tighter economic policies in China. In response to strong 
competition from producers in Brazil and Canada, putting 
downward pressure on prices, the Niobium business 
developed a more diversified geographical sales portfolio  
in order to capitalise on spot supply opportunities in other 
countries such as South Korea, Turkey, India, the UAE  
and Taiwan.
Phosphates
Global demand for phosphates decreased during 2013, 
mainly as a result of high inventories, adverse weather 
conditions in the US which affected the timing of crop 
planting, exchange rate fluctuations, and a reduction in the 
phosphates subsidy offered to farmers in India. Although 
some major phosphate suppliers reduced their output in 
response to the weaker demand environment, prices for  
the year as a whole were subdued, with an average 
monoammonium phosphate (MAP) price of $494/tonne,  
a 16% reduction over 2012.
Demand for phosphate fertilisers in Brazil totalled 
approximately 1 1.8 Mt in 2013, a 7% increase, mainly  
owing to increased production of soybean and corn crops. 
Domestic production of phosphate fertiliser products  
was 1% lower at 7.3 Mt, resulting in the levels of imported 
intermediate fertilisers reaching 5 Mt, an increase of 
approximately 20%. Brazil is running a high inventory 
position following a strong import programme in the first  
half of 2013, with stocks at year end of 1.9 Mt estimated to 
be approximately 27% higher than the prior year. 
Operating performance
Niobium
Underlying operating profit of $89 million was 10% higher 
than in 2012, with higher sales volumes, lower cash costs 
and the positive impact of the weaker Brazilian currency on 
operating costs, partly offset by lower realised sales prices 
and increased study costs.
Production of 4,500 tonnes was 2% higher, as throughput 
and recovery improvements offset the decline in ore quality.
Phosphates
Underlying operating profit decreased by 13% to  
$79 million, with lower selling prices and higher study costs 
only partly offset by lower labour and sulphur costs and the 
positive impact of the weaker Brazilian real on operating costs.
Fertiliser production increased by 6% to 1,199,000 tonnes, 
owing to improved performance following optimised 
maintenance scheduling, increased plant availability  
and enhanced performance at the acidulation and 
granulation plants.
78 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Projects
Niobium
The Boa Vista Fresh Rock project continued to progress  
and is expected to start production later in 2014. The project 
includes the construction of a new upstream plant that will 
enable continuity of the Catalão site through processing  
the Fresh Rock orebody. Production capacity will increase 
to approximately 6,500 tonnes of niobium per year 
(2013: 4,500 tonnes), allowing use of the full plant capacity.  
Both Niobium and Phosphates have a series of smaller 
optimisation projects to improve plant capacity and 
productivity and to release the full potential of the reserve 
base, including upstream and downstream de-bottlenecking 
projects and tailings initiatives. The upstream project is 
expected to contribute to production in 2014, while the 
downstream projects will deliver additional volumes in 2016. 
The tailings initiatives will increase niobium production 
through the recovery of waste from Goiás II.
Phosphates
Goiás II is a brownfield project that aims to double the 
production of phosphate concentrate at the same site 
through the doubling of plant capacity and is expected to 
increase the production of fertilisers by 725 ktpa by 2018. 
Goiás II represents an opportunity to capture market share 
that is currently supplied by imports. A conceptual study for 
the project was developed towards the end of 2012, and is 
expected to enter the feasibility stage in 2014.
Outlook
Niobium
The three main niobium producers have all announced 
brownfield expansion plans, though none is expected to be 
producing at full capacity in 2014. Demand for niobium is 
expected to increase by around 5%, in line with the expected 
increase in production of crude steel and niobium-bearing 
alloys in the final product mix of steel. 
The outlook for 2014 is expected to be more positive owing 
to continued gradual recovery in the major economies,  
with growth still driven by China and India and a moderate 
recovery in the US and Japan. 
Phosphates
The fertiliser market is expected to show some 
improvement in both demand and prices in 2014, driven  
by a return to more normal levels of demand following 
adverse weather conditions in the US which affected the 
timing of crop planting, and a reduction in the phosphates 
subsidy offered to farmers in India in 2013.
01 At this metallurgical 
facility in Ouvidor, 
leached concentrate  
is reduced by an 
aluminothermic  
process to form 
ferroniobium.
02 Phosphate and acid 
plants and granulation 
building at the Cubatão 
fertiliser plant.
03 At Catalão, this 
waste-management 
plant controls the 
amount of phosphate 
allowed to be sent  
to waste.
03
01 02
79
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 PLATINUM
Key financial and non-financial performance indicators
$ million (unless otherwise stated) 2013 2012
(1)
Underlying operating profit/(loss) 464 (120)
Underlying EBITDA 1,048 580
Capital expenditure 608 822
Share of Group underlying operating profit 7% (2)%
Attributable return on capital employed 6% (2)%
Non-financial indicators
(2)
2013 2012
Number of fatal injuries 6 7
Lost-time injury frequency rate 1.05 1.15
Total energy consumed in 1,000 GJ 24,942 24,393
Total greenhouse gas emissions in 1,000 tonnes CO
2
e 5,936 5,743
Total water consumed in 1,000 m
3
33,412 34,911
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements.  
See note 2 of the financial statements for details.
(2)  
The energy consumed data from 2012 has been revised due to an error detected subsequent to the publication  
of the 2012 annual report.
UNDERLYING OPERATING 
PROFIT/(LOSS)
(2012: $(120) m)
 $464 m
SHARE OF GROUP UNDERLYING 
OPERATING PROFIT
(2012: (2)%)
7%
UNDERLYING EBITDA
(2012: $580 m)
$1 ,048 m
Chris Griffith 
CEO: Anglo American Platinum Limited
Image  
New tankhouse  
under construction  
at the Rustenburg  
Base Metals Refinery 
80 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT PLATINUM BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Anglo American Platinum Limited is the leading primary 
producer of Platinum Group Metals (PGMs) and accounts 
for approximately 40% of the world’s newly mined platinum. 
It mines an area called the Bushveld Complex in South 
Africa, which contains PGM-bearing Merensky, UG2 and 
Platreef ores, and the Great Dyke in Zimbabwe. Access to 
an extensive portfolio of ore reserves ensures Platinum 
is well placed to be a major PGM producer for many years 
to come.
Following Platinum’s announcement of its portfolio review 
on 15 January 2013, and extensive engagement with the 
South African government, unions and other stakeholders in 
the subsequent months, the company began to implement 
the restructuring of its operations. This led to the 
consolidation and optimisation of five Rustenburg mines 
into three. The consolidation of Rustenburg was completed 
in the third quarter of 2013 through the integration of the 
Khuseleka 2 shaft and Khomanani mine into surrounding 
mines. The Khuseleka 1 shaft remains operational in the 
medium term and has been integrated into Thembelani 
mine. The ‘own mines’ division of Platinum consists of 
operations based in the Rustenburg mining area, which has 
been reduced to the Bathopele, Siphumelele and 
Thembelani mines; two mines in the Amandelbult Section, 
Tumela Mine and Dishaba Mine; as well as the open pit 
Mogalakwena mine and Twickenham Platinum mine 
project. Union mine is 85% held, with a black economic 
empowerment (BEE) partner, the Bakgatla-Ba-Kgafela 
traditional community, holding the remainder. During 2013, 
Union North and Union South mines were consolidated as 
part of the business review, the strategy being to prepare for 
the entity’s sale in the medium term. Platinum also operates 
the Unki mine in Zimbabwe, which is currently wholly owned. 
Platinum also has two 50:50 joint operations: one with  
a BEE consortium, led by African Rainbow Minerals, at 
Modikwa Platinum mine; and another with the Glencore 
Kagiso Tiso Platinum Partnership in respect of Mototolo 
mine. In addition, Platinum has a 50:50 pooling and sharing 
agreement with Aquarius Platinum covering the shallow 
reserves of the Kroondal mine. The company also owns 
49% of Bokoni mine and holds, through Rustenburg 
Platinum Mines’ (RPM), 27% of Atlatsa Resources. Platinum 
is in partnership with Royal Bafokeng Resources, and has a 
33% shareholding in the combined Bafokeng-Rasimone 
Platinum Mine and Styldrift properties. Through RPM, 
Platinum holds 12.6% of RB Plats’ issued share capital.
In association with its mining operations, Platinum operates 
a tailings re-treatment facility, three smelters, a base metals 
refinery and a precious metals refinery.
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
PGMs have a wide range of industrial and high-technology 
applications. Demand for platinum is dominated by its use in 
autocatalysts to control emissions from both gasoline- and 
diesel-engine vehicles, and in jewellery. These uses are 
responsible for 66% of total gross annual platinum demand. 
PGMs also have a wide range of other applications, in the 
chemical, electronic, medical, glass and petroleum industries.
Our Platinum business is the major funder of Platinum  
Guild International (PGI), which plays a key role in 
encouraging demand for platinum jewellery and in 
establishing new platinum jewellery markets. Since 2000, 
China has been the leading platinum jewellery market, 
followed by Europe, Japan and North America. Industrial 
applications for platinum are driven by technology and, 
especially in the case of autocatalysts, by legislation. The 
increasing stringency of emissions legislation continues to 
drive growth in PGM demand.
Palladium’s principal application, accounting for 72% of  
total palladium demand, is in autocatalysts, particularly  
in gasoline vehicles. The metal is also used in electronic 
components, dental alloys and jewellery.
Rhodium is an important metal in autocatalytic activity, 
which accounts for nearly 80% of total gross annual 
rhodium demand. 
STRATEGY 
For Anglo American Platinum, the objective of the portfolio 
review announced in January 2013 was to assess the options 
available in order to create a sustainable, competitive and 
profitable business for the long term benefit of all its 
stakeholders. Platinum’s strategy is being built on five levers 
of priority: projects; commercial; people; operational; and 
sustainability excellence.
The result of the restructuring was to align baseline 
production with long term demand expectations, focusing 
on a high quality portfolio of operations to produce PGMs 
on an economically sustainable basis. 
Operationally, the company intends to change the 
composition of its portfolio to concentrate on more opencast 
and shallow, lower risk, lower cost, higher margin and more 
mechanised mining, supporting a significant reduction in its 
cost base and achieving a more efficient allocation of capital. 
The major reconfiguration of Platinum is now under way  
and significant progress has been made in implementing  
the first stages of the review. Baseline production has been 
maintained at 2.3-2.4 million ounces per annum, with 
250,000 annualised low margin, high cost, and unprofitable 
ounces no longer in production.
81
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT PLATINUM
As a result of the consolidation of the Rustenburg mines 
from five to three and the consolidation of Union mines, 
7,450 roles were eliminated in 2013, though there were no 
forced retrenchments. Of that total, some 5,100 employees 
had left the organisation by year end, while 2,300 employees 
had been redeployed to other parts of the business. In 
addition, the decision was made to continue to operate the 
reconfigured Khuseleka 1 shaft at Khuseleka mine, as it 
makes a positive contribution to cash flow.
Following the substantial changes being made to the 
business to ensure its sustainability, a number of social-
mitigation plans have been implemented, including the 
company continuing to contribute to the welfare of 
employees affected by the restructuring. The programme 
includes employee assistance in the form of bursaries, 
healthcare and retraining; support for local economic 
development and a number of suppliers; and investment, 
together with local government, in housing development 
in the Rustenburg region. 
A new organisational design and operating model has  
been implemented to ensure that the operations are 
appropriately supported by the various support service 
functions. In addition, Platinum’s commercial strategy  
aims to ensure value and stability for the company and its 
customers, while promoting new applications for PGMs. 
We continue to evaluate and develop a number of projects, 
including the Twickenham platinum mine project and a 
number of low capital intensity projects to increase 
production potential at Mogalakwena. The flexibility for  
long term growth options will therefore be retained, 
ensuring Platinum is well positioned in future to make use of 
opportunities arising from an increase in demand for PGMs. 
Platinum continues to take its social responsibilities 
seriously, particularly to its employees and surrounding 
communities. The implementation of the strategy aims to 
deliver a sustainable, competitive and profitable business 
that will be best placed to sustain employment over the  
long term.
Operating safely, sustainably and responsibly
Operating safely, sustainably and responsibly is a 
fundamental part of Platinum’s business strategy. Specifically, 
Platinum aims to improve and grow its relationships with all 
its stakeholders, and to create a sustainable business and 
sustainable communities and environments in and around 
its operations to the benefit of all stakeholders. Critical areas 
of performance are:
 • Employee health and safety – doing everything possible 
to ensure zero harm to employees at work, and supporting 
employee and community health and well-being;
 • Environmental management – complying with legislation 
and permits, and having no significant environmental 
incidents;
 • Community development – making a positive contribution 
to sustainable socio-economic development in the areas 
in which we operate;
 • Stakeholder engagement – ensuring regular and ongoing 
engagement with a broad range of stakeholders who 
affect, and are affected by, Platinum’s business, with the 
appropriate relationships and mechanisms in place to 
amicably resolve conflict.
Platinum price
Jan 12
H1 2012 realised Pt
price $1,547/oz
H2 2012 realised Pt
price $1,520/oz
H1 2013 realised Pt 
price $1,549/oz
H2 2013 realised Pt 
price $1,430
$ (oz) 
Source: Anglo American Commodity Research
Rand Pt. basket
Platinum realised price ($)
Rand (oz) 
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
800
1,200
1,000
1,400
1,600
1,800
Dec 13 Jun 13 Jan 13 Jun 12
82 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW
Platinum recorded an underlying operating profit of 
$464 million in 2013, compared with an underlying 
operating loss of $120 million in 2012. This was primarily  
due to a weaker average South African rand against the 
dollar and an increase in sales volumes, which were partly 
offset by lower realised basket prices, and cost increases.
Cash operating costs per equivalent refined platinum  
ounce increased by 4% to ZAR17,053 (2012: ZAR16,364), 
primarily owing to increases in the costs of labour, electricity, 
diesel and key inputs of processing operations, partly offset 
by higher production and cost savings. Productivity, 
however, increased by 9% to 6.57m
2
 (2012: 6.05m
2
).
Safety and environment
Platinum recorded its best ever safety performance; 
however, six employees sadly lost their lives on company 
operations during 2013. The company extends its sincere 
condolences to their families, friends and colleagues. Four 
fatal injuries were due to falls of ground and one involved 
moving machinery. The final incident is still under 
investigation to determine whether this was work-related 
or not. The company’s safety performance has shown very 
encouraging progress since 2007, with fatal injury and 
lost-time injury frequency rates declining by 60% and  
49%, respectively.
The proactive management of safety risks has resulted in 
a continued fall in safety stoppages from the high in 201 1, 
though the number of Section 54 stoppages remained  
level with 2012, at 72. In addition, 46,261 ounces of 
production were lost as a result of safety stoppages  
(2012: 17,000 ounces), though this was well below the 
138,000 ounces lost in 201 1. 
Potable water used for primary and non-primary activities 
decreased by 6% to 17.3 million m
3
 (2012: 18.4 million m
3
). 
The decrease in potable water consumption was influenced 
mainly by the consistent use of treated sewage water at 
Rustenburg operations to offset the use of potable water. 
Platinum remains committed to striving towards zero use 
of potable water for industrial purposes. 
There was one material environmental incident in 2013,  
with the occurrence of a tailings spillage from the Blinkwater 
tailings dam at Mogalakwena mine. The incident, which  
is now contained and at an advanced stage of clean-up, 
affected the Mohlosane river for 2.5 kilometres. The  
incident was caused by void tunnelling in the tailings dam 
starter wall, and solutions have been put in place to prevent  
a recurrence.
Markets 
In 2013, gross global platinum demand increased by 
507,000 ounces, or 6.3%, as increases in industrial and 
investment demand more than offset declines from the 
autocatalyst and jewellery sectors. Primary platinum supply 
grew by 60,000 ounces, or 1%, as increased supply from 
South Africa and Zimbabwe exceeded declines in Russia 
and North America. Secondary supplies from recycled 
autocatalyst, jewellery and industrial scrap decreased by 
29,000 ounces, or 1%, resulting in a 0.4% increase in gross 
global platinum supply of 31,000 ounces. The resultant 
platinum deficit of 856,000 ounces was satisfied by 
cumulative above-ground stocks at market prices during 
the course of the year. 
Gross global palladium demand decreased by 437,000 
ounces, or 4%, as reduced demand from the jewellery, 
industrial and investment sectors far exceeded the increase 
in autocatalyst demand. Primary palladium supply reduced 
by 160,000 ounces, or 3%, as the reduction in supply from 
Russia and the rest of world more than offset the increases 
from South Africa, Zimbabwe and North America. 
Secondary supplies from recycled autocatalyst, jewellery 
and industrial scrap increased by 179,000 ounces, or 8%, 
resulting in flat gross global palladium supply. The resultant 
palladium deficit for the year of 621,000 ounces was also 
satisfied by cumulative above-ground stocks at market 
prices during the year.
In 2013, gross global rhodium demand increased by  
19,000 ounces, or 2%. Although autocatalyst demand 
remained flat, this was more than compensated by increases 
in industrial and investment demand. Primary supply 
decreased by 3% and secondary supply increased by 9%, 
keeping gross supply flat and with a resultant market deficit 
of 9,000 ounces.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
’000 oz
South Africa 4,168
Russia 780
Zimbabwe 363
North America 308
Other 124
Total primary supply 5,743
Autocat recycle 1,224
Jewellery recycle 773
Industrial recycle 10
Secondary supply 2,007
Gross supply 7,750
 
 
 
 
 
 
’000 oz
Autocatalyst – gross 2,933
Jewellery – gross 2,747
Industrial – gross 2,020
Investment 906
Gross demand 8,606
Source: Anglo American Platinum and Johnson Matthey
83
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Autocatalysts
Global light vehicle sales grew by 3.8% in 2013, to  
84.2 million units, driven by growth in China and North 
America, offset by declines in India, Russia and Europe. 
Gross demand for platinum in autocatalysis declined by  
5%, owing largely to lower vehicle production in the 
diesel-dominant Indian and European markets. Palladium 
use in autocatalysis increased by 3%, in line with global 
growth in gasoline vehicle production, with an increase in 
palladium purchases for autocatalysis in China offsetting 
weakness in other markets. Gross rhodium use in 
autocatalysis was flat in 2013, as the increase in Chinese 
demand was offset by weakness in other markets.
Jewellery
The Chinese platinum jewellery market accounted for 67% 
of gross global jewellery demand in 2013, and is positioned 
to grow as disposable income increases and the effective 
market development by PGI continues. Platinum jewellery 
sales in China continued to benefit from the narrow price 
premium to gold; gross demand, however, decreased by 
5%. The weak platinum price also reduced the volume of 
jewellery recycled, resulting in flat net demand. The much 
smaller markets of Europe, North America and India all 
increased in 2013, and this, combined with lower Japanese 
recycled volumes, saw net global platinum jewellery 
demand increase by 86,000 ounces, or 5%. 
Industrial
In 2013, platinum use in industrial applications increased  
by 250,000 ounces, or 14%, owing to growth in electrical 
and glass applications.
Palladium industrial use declined by 146,000 ounces  
as increased substitution by base metals in electronic 
capacitors and by ceramics in dentistry exceeded 
palladium’s increased use in polyester manufacture.
In 2013, industrial use for rhodium increased by 9,000 
ounces, or 6%, following inventory changes in glass 
manufacture and capacity increases in oxo-alcohol and 
acetic acid manufacture.
Investment
Platinum investment demand increased by 457,000 ounces, 
or 102%, owing to the rand-denominated platinum ETF 
launched in April 2013. Palladium investment demand 
declined by 451,000 ounces, or 98%, as a result of ETF 
disinvestment. Rhodium investment demand increased by 
8,000 ounces, or 20%.
OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Production 
Equivalent refined platinum production totalled 2.32 million 
ounces, up 5% on 2012. Platinum’s own mines, including 
Western Limb Tailings Retreatment, produced 1.5 million of 
equivalent refined platinum ounces, which was 2% higher 
year on year but in line with the company’s strategy.
Production at Khomanani mine, Khuseleka 2 shaft and 
Union North decline was suspended in August 2013, in line 
with the proposed restructuring plans. The resources from 
these mines have now been integrated into the surrounding 
operations. As a result of these initiatives, 250,000 ounces 
of annualised unprofitable production have been removed.
The industrial action at Platinum’s mining operations from 
27 September 2013 to 10 October 2013, resulted in a loss  
of platinum production of 44,000 ounces. The company 
quickly ramped up to full production following the strike,  
with little further loss of production. 
Production at the Western Limb operations (Rustenburg, 
Union and Amandelbult mines) was affected by the 
industrial action during the second half of 2013. In addition, 
platinum production at Tumela and Dishaba mines 
decreased by 2% year on year owing to shortages of 
production crews and supervisors. The redeployment of 
labour programme following the placement of mines on 
care and maintenance was completed in the final quarter  
of the year and benefits arising from the resulting 
productivity improvements should be seen in 2014. 
Production at the Rustenburg mines increased by 12,700 
ounces, or 3%, while output from Union mines declined by 
9%. At Mogalakwena mine, output increased by 12% to a 
record 335,800 ounces
(1)
 following higher throughput at the 
concentrators and improved head grade. Equivalent refined 
platinum production at Unki increased by 2% to 63,200 
ounces as the mine bettered its ramp-up schedule, reaching 
steady state production levels ahead of expectations.
Refined platinum production, at 2.4 million ounces, 
remained constant year on year, primarily due to increased 
feed from mining operations and improved performance at 
the Anglo American Platinum Converting Process (ACP) 
plant which has been operating at a steady state level since 
production issues caused by a high-pressure leak were 
resolved at the end of the second quarter of 2013. Refined 
production of palladium was relatively flat year on year, 
decreasing by 1%, while rhodium output decreased by 5%. 
Palladium and rhodium variances are a result of a different 
source mix from operations and different pipeline 
processing times for each metal. Nickel production saw a 
28% increase as technical challenges in the new nickel tank 
house are being resolved and as ramp up continues. 
(1) 
Includes 16,000 ounces produced at the Messina Baobab plant as part of a one-off 
toll concentrating agreement.
84 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT PLATINUM Projects
In an environment of capital austerity, careful consideration 
is taken to determine how projects are prioritised in line  
with the company’s strategy to increase scrutiny over  
capital allocation. Projects, including the development  
of Twickenham and expansion of production capacity  
at Mogalakwena mine, are in line with the longer term  
strategy of increasing shallow, mechanised and lower cost 
production and continue to be progressed.
Outlook
The global platinum market is expected to remain balanced 
in the short term, with increasing deficits over the medium 
term as steady demand growth in autocatalyst, jewellery  
and industrial applications exceeds growth in supply from 
secondary recycled sources and capital-constrained mining 
supply. The platinum price remains below sustainable 
incentive levels despite significant reductions in cumulative 
above-ground stocks in 2012 and 2013. The record high in 
platinum investment demand from ETFs, bars and coins in 
2013 is unlikely to be repeated and some disinvestment 
from the greater than 850,000 ounce holding in the  
South Africa-based ETF should not be ruled out.
Continued deficits in the palladium market are likely in the 
short and medium term owing to increased production  
of gasoline vehicles and supply growth being limited by 
platinum supply constraints. Above-ground stocks of 
palladium are estimated to be far higher than those of 
platinum; however, demand growth is expected to more 
than offset the negative price sentiment associated with 
elevated stock levels.
Following the implementation of the portfolio, Platinum is 
expected to keep baseline production flat at 2.3 to 2.4 million 
platinum ounces in 2014, with production lost from the 
mines closed in 2013, offset by production from higher 
margin operations through the implementation of various 
operational improvement plans. Platinum continues to aim 
to align output with expected demand, and to maintain 
flexibility to meet potential improvements in demand. 
Cost inflation will remain a challenge in 2014, as the 
inflationary pressures from above-inflation wage increases 
and electricity increases in particular, offset the cost 
reductions realised following the Platinum restructuring.  
As of 1 1 December 2013, Platinum settled on a two year 
wage agreement with NUM and UASA at an average wage 
increase of 8.1% for the period. Negotiations with AMCU 
and NUMSA are continuing, with the related current strike 
impacting production. Cash unit costs are estimated to 
increase to around R18,000-R19,000 per equivalent refined 
platinum ounce for 2014.
Platinum’s project portfolio has been aligned with the 
proposals of the business restructuring, and capital 
expenditure guidance will be ZAR6 billion to ZAR7.3 billion 
for 2014, excluding pre-production costs, capitalised waste 
stripping and interest.
03 01
02
01 Survey assistant Lennox 
Mxathule and surveyor 
Zack Moatshe carry out 
an underground survey 
of Bathopele mine.
02 Metallurgist Sithi 
Moribuko and supervisor 
Deis Ngale discuss 
density readings at 
the ISA mills at 
Mogalakwena North 
Concentrators.
03 Human resources 
development trainer 
Lefa Sedumedi locking 
out the centralised 
blasting system 
(‘Safeblast’) prior  
to entry of a section  
at Tumela mine.
85
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 DIAMONDS
Key financial and non-financial performance indicators
$ million (unless otherwise stated) 2013 2012 
Underlying operating profit 1,003 474
Underlying EBITDA 1,451 712
Capital expenditure 551 161
Share of Group underlying operating profit 15% 8%
Attributable return on capital employed
(3)
11% 10%
Non-financial indicators
(4)
2013 2012
Number of fatal injuries – –
Lost-time injury frequency rate 0.19 0.32
Total energy consumed in 1,000 GJ 14,124 4,658
Total greenhouse gas emissions in 1,000 tonnes CO
2
e 1,781 564
Total water consumed in 1,000 m
3
74,788 23,568
(1)  
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements.  
See note 2 of the financial statements for details.
(2)  
Amounts based on the Group’s 45% shareholding to 16 August 2012 (except for capital expenditure as defined)  
and a 100% basis thereafter.
(3)  
De Beers’ 2012 attributable ROCE contains eight months with De Beers as an associate at 45% shareholding,  
and four months as a fully consolidated entity with shareholding at 85%. 
(4)  
Historical non-financial data is reported from the date of acquisition.
(1)(2)
UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT
(2012: $47 4 m)
 $1 , 00 3 m
SHARE OF GROUP UNDERLYING 
OPERATING PROFIT
(2012: 8%)
15%
UNDERLYING EBITDA
(2012: $712 m)
$1 , 4 5 1 m
Philippe Mellier 
CEO – De Beers Group
Image  
Safety representative 
Richmond Lutendo 
Tshimenze is working  
in the mining section of 
Venetia diamond mine. 
He is pictured inside  
the pit between shifts 
inspecting a blast area.
86 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT DIAMONDS BUSINESS OVERVIEW
De Beers is 85% owned by Anglo American, with the 
remaining 15% interest held by the Government of the 
Republic of Botswana (GRB).
De Beers is the world’s leading diamond company.  
Together with its joint venture partners, De Beers produces 
approximately one-third of the world’s rough diamonds, by 
value, and employs more than 23,000 people (including 
contractors) around the world. 
De Beers operates across key parts of the diamond value 
chain, including exploration, production, sorting, valuing  
and selling of rough diamonds. It markets polished 
diamonds through its proprietary diamond brand, 
Forevermark. It also has a 50:50 retail joint operation with 
LVMH Moët Hennessy-Louis Vuitton. 
Mines
De Beers’ mines are located in four countries: Botswana, 
Canada, Namibia and South Africa. All operations are open 
pit with the exception of an underground mine in Canada, 
and alluvial and marine mining operations in Namibia. 
In Botswana, De Beers’ interests are held through 
Debswana Diamond Company, a 50:50 joint operation  
with the GRB. Debswana’s operations include Jwaneng,  
one of the world’s richest diamond mines; Orapa,  
among the largest open-pit diamond mines; Letlhakane; 
and Damtshaa.
In South Africa, De Beers has a 74% interest in De Beers 
Consolidated Mines (DBCM), with the remaining 26% held 
by Ponahalo Holdings, a black economic empowerment 
consortium. DBCM’s operations include Venetia, which 
produces approximately 70% of De Beers’ South African 
diamond production; Voorspoed, a source of large and 
exotic coloured diamonds; and Kimberley Mines, a tailings 
processing facility.
In Namibia, De Beers’ interests are held through Namdeb 
Holdings (NH), a 50:50 joint operation with the Government  
of the Republic of Namibia (GRN). Diamonds are mined on 
land by Namdeb and at sea by Debmarine Namibia, both 
wholly owned by NH. Marine mining is performed by a fleet 
of five mining vessels. 
In Canada, De Beers wholly owns its two mining operations: 
Victor, located in Northern Ontario; and Snap Lake in the 
Northwest Territories. De Beers also has a 51% interest in 
the Gahcho Kué project near Snap Lake (with Mountain 
Province Diamonds holding the other 49%). The project  
is at an advanced permitting stage. With a mine life of 
approximately 1 1 years, Gahcho Kué is expected to mine 
around 31 million tonnes of ore containing an estimated  
48 million carats.
(1)
 
Rough diamond sales
De Beers sells rough diamonds through two distribution 
channels: around 90% are sold via long term contract sales 
to clients (known as Sightholders), with the remainder being 
sold via regular auctions to the broader industry. 
De Beers is also an equal joint operation partner in DTC 
Botswana (a sorting and valuing business) and in Namibia 
DTC (a sorting, valuing and sales business) with the GRB 
and GRN, respectively. These companies facilitate local 
sales and beneficiation, and are intermediaries in the global 
selling function. 
As part of its long term contract sales, De Beers sorts and 
values production into around 12,000 different price points. 
These diamonds are aggregated and sold at 10 Sights 
(or selling events) each year.
De Beers is a global leader in the use of innovative online 
systems to auction rough diamonds to small, mid-tier and 
large manufacturing, retailing and trading businesses. 
Brands
De Beers participates at the consumer end of the value 
chain through its proprietary diamond brand, Forevermark, 
and through De Beers Diamond Jewellers.
Diamonds inscribed as Forevermark diamonds provide 
consumers with confidence that their diamonds are 
beautiful, rare and responsibly sourced. They are available  
in carefully selected, authorised jewellers in the major 
consumer markets around the world, and are supported  
by a marketing programme which reinforces the  
‘diamond dream’.
De Beers Diamond Jewellers’ high-end retail stores are 
located in key luxury shopping destinations around the 
world, including New York, Beijing, Shanghai, Hong Kong, 
London, Paris, Tokyo and Dubai.
Supermaterials
Element Six is the global leader in the design, development 
and production of synthetic diamond supermaterials  
for a range of industrial applications. It comprises two 
businesses: Technologies, which is 100% owned by 
De Beers; and Abrasives, in which De Beers has a 59.8% 
interest (Umicore SA holds the remaining 40.2%). 
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
Around 60% of the world’s diamonds, by value, originate 
from south and central Africa, with significant sources also 
found in Russia, Australia and Canada.
Most diamonds come from the mining of kimberlite 
deposits. Another important source of gem diamonds, 
however, has been secondary alluvial and marine deposits 
formed by the weathering of primary kimberlites and the 
subsequent deposition of released diamonds in rivers and 
beach gravels.
Rough diamonds are broadly classified either as gem  
or industrial quality, with gem being overwhelmingly 
(approximately 99%) the larger of the two markets, by  
value. Retail jewellery accounts for the majority of the world 
market for gem diamonds, where aspects such as size, 
colour, shape and clarity have a large impact on valuation. 
(1) 
For further details please see the Diamonds Reserves and Resources section  
of the Annual Report, pages 244–249.
87
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 STRATEGY 
De Beers’ strategic vision is to unlock the full economic 
value of its leadership position across the diamond pipeline 
in a safe and sustainable manner.
De Beers is a demand-driven business, with a clear 
understanding that consumer desire is the primary source 
of value for its diamonds. With growth in demand for 
diamonds expected to outstrip production growth in the 
medium to long term, the company aims to maximise the 
value of every carat mined, sorted and sold. To achieve  
this objective, De Beers focuses on optimising the value  
of its mining assets, selling to selected leading Sightholders 
and offering consumers the integrity and confidence of  
its brands. 
Safety and sustainable development strategy 
Safety remains the top priority for De Beers, and the 
company continues to strive for enhanced safety 
performance through the roll-out of an integrated 
improvement plan. Its emphasis is on leadership  
and engagement, operational risk, and incident and 
performance management. 
De Beers’ sustainable development activities span the 
diamond pipeline, and are an integral part of the company’s 
business model. Upstream (exploration and mining), this 
includes ensuring that it does no harm to either employees 
or communities, minimising the impact on the environment, 
and contributing to conservation. 
De Beers also works in partnership with host governments 
and other stakeholders to support long term and sustainable 
economic development through local and indigenous 
procurement, enterprise development, social investment 
and beneficiation. 
De Beers supports the development of value-adding 
downstream activities in producer countries. In late 2013,  
De Beers completed the migration of its London-based 
sales operations to Gaborone, Botswana. Agreed in 201 1,  
it forms part of a 10 year sales agreement between 
De Beers and the GRB for the sorting, valuing and sale of 
Debswana’s diamond production. The relocation will bolster 
De Beers’ long term beneficiation activities in southern 
Africa, helping establish the region as a world-leading 
midstream (rough diamond sorting, valuing and sales) 
diamond centre. 
De Beers also supports initiatives to drive best practice 
throughout the diamond pipeline. These include the 
Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, an inter-
governmental initiative that seeks to eliminate conflict 
diamonds from the global supply chain. It also includes the 
De Beers Best Practice Principles, a bespoke ethical, 
environmental and social assurance programme that covers 
more than 300,000 diamond sector workers across the 
world. In addition, the Forevermark brand offers consumers 
a clear, responsible sourcing promise.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW
De Beers’ operating profit totalled $1,003 million, an 
increase of 1 12% compared with 2012, driven by the 
Group’s increased shareholding and a greater than 35% 
improvement in the underlying results of the business.  
The improvement reflected higher sales revenues and tight 
cost control, which benefited from favourable exchange  
rate movements. 
Safety, health and environment
De Beers operated without any loss of life in 2013 and 
improved its lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) 
considerably from 0.32 in 2012, to 0.19. The company 
continues to improve its monitoring of leading indicators to 
ensure an increasingly proactive response to emerging risks.
In 2013, 14 new cases of occupational disease were 
reported. The occupational disease incidence rate remains 
well below the target of 1 per 200,000 man-hours worked, 
with the biggest issue being noise-induced hearing loss.  
The company continues to focus on occupational hygiene 
management, as well as on efforts to ensure fitness to work, 
occupational exposure control, incident reporting and 
reducing absenteeism arising from illness.
Markets
Despite global macro-economic uncertainty, diamond 
jewellery sales increased in local currency terms in all major 
diamond markets, except India. In India, challenging 
economic conditions and a devaluation of the rupee resulted 
in a decline in demand. The US market posted positive 
growth, with a generally strong holiday season in the fourth 
quarter. China continued to show positive growth rates, but 
at levels consistent with slower economic development.
Although the De Beers rough price index increased slightly 
in the first half of the year, a combination of weaker polished 
prices, high levels of stock in the cutting centres and 
tightening liquidity resulted in some of this increase being 
reversed in the second half. The price decrease, together 
with an increase in polished sales, saw the rough market 
stabilise and start to improve toward the end of the year.
Operating performance
Mining and manufacturing
De Beers’ full-year production increased by 12% to 
31.2 million carats (2012: 27.9 million carats), with 
improvements across all regions, particularly in Botswana 
and Canada.
In Botswana, higher production was driven by Jwaneng’s 
recovery from the slope failure in June 2012, which followed 
completion of the remediation programme in the third 
quarter. Production at Orapa was slightly higher than 2012, 
despite unplanned maintenance on plant No. 1, which 
returned to full operation in October.
In South Africa, full production was restored at Venetia  
after the mine was impacted by very heavy flooding in the 
Limpopo province at the start of the year. Shortfalls in ore 
mined were mitigated by the processing of ore stockpiles. 
Production improved steadily in the third quarter, with full 
recovery by the fourth quarter.
88 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT DIAMONDS In Canada, performance at Snap Lake improved 
significantly, with carats recovered up approximately 50% 
as a result of a focus on throughput and mining efficiency. 
At Victor, carat recovery exceeded expectations and was 
broadly in line with the prior year.
In Namibia, Debmarine Namibia performed strongly,  
largely due to the contribution of the MV Mafuta following its 
production upgrade in early 2013. Namdeb also performed 
well, with carat recovery higher than in 2012.
While Element Six experienced a challenging start to the 
year, performance improved in the second half, driven by  
the introduction of new products and a continued focus 
on cost control. In July, Element Six opened its Global 
Innovation Centre in the UK. The centre is the world’s largest 
and most sophisticated synthetic diamond research and 
development facility, and will be a key enabler for growth in 
201 4 and beyond.
Sales
Sales increased slightly to $6.4 billion in 2013  
(2012: $6.1 billion on a comparable basis). De Beers’ rough 
diamond price index has increased 2% since the start of the 
year, while average realised rough diamond prices were 5% 
higher, driven by the product mix. Following the migration  
of its sales activities from London to Botswana, De Beers 
hosted international Sights in Gaborone in November and 
December.
Brands
Forevermark saw strong growth in 2013, with door  
numbers up by 39% on 2012. This growth was driven 
primarily by the core markets of the US, China, Japan  
and India. The brand is now available at more than  
1,200 retail partners in 12 markets. Since the launch of 
Forevermark, more than 870,000 diamonds have received 
the Forevermark inscription and unique identification 
number. The inscription is a promise that each diamond has 
met the brand’s high standards of quality, ethical integrity 
and provenance. 
De Beers Diamond Jewellers opened new directly operated 
stores in Shanghai and Hong Kong’s Times Square. 
Through franchise partnerships, it also opened stores in 
Kuala Lumpur, Baku, Vancouver and Kiev. 
Projects
In Botswana, infrastructure construction at Debswana’s 
Jwaneng Cut-8 project is complete. Cut-8 will provide 
access to an estimated 96 million tonnes of ore to be 
treated, containing approximately 1 13 million carats of 
mainly high quality diamonds, and extend the life of one  
of the world’s richest diamond mines to at least 2028.
(2)
 
In South Africa, the first blast took place in September  
2013 for the construction of an underground mine beneath 
the open pit at Venetia. With capital investment of $2 billion, 
this represents De Beers’ largest ever investment in  
South Africa. Underground mine production is expected to 
start in 2021 and will extend the life of the mine to beyond 
2040. The life of mine plan will treat approximately  
129 million tonnes of ore, containing an estimated  
94 million carats.
(3)
 
In Canada, the Mackenzie Valley Land and Water Board 
approved a pioneer Land Use Permit for Gahcho Kué, which 
allows land-based site works to commence in preparation 
for deliveries planned for the 2014 winter road season. 
Outlook 
De Beers expects a slight strengthening in growth in 
diamond jewellery demand in 2014, driven by continued 
gradual improvements in the global economic outlook.  
The US and China are expected to continue to be the main 
engines of growth for polished diamonds, while most other 
markets are expected to show positive growth in local 
currency, with final dollar-denominated results being partly 
dependent on currency fluctuations. Rough diamond 
manufacturers, in India in particular, face continued 
pressures regarding levels of bank financing. In India, further 
volatility of the rupee may potentially affect rough diamond 
sales. In the medium to long term, industry fundamentals are 
expected to strengthen as diamond production plateaus and 
demand continues to increase. 
(2) 
Scheduled Inferred Resources (below 401 metres) included in the Cut-8 estimates constitute 77% (86.7 Mct) of the estimated carats. Not all Inferred Resources may be 
upgraded to Ore Reserves, even after additional drilling. The numbers given are scheduled tonnes and carats as per the 2013 Life-of-Mine plan.
(3) 
The current mining rights expire in 2038; Venetia mine will apply to extend the mining rights at the appropriate time in the future. Scheduled Inferred Resources constitute 28% 
(26.3 Mct) of the estimated carats. Not all Inferred Resources may be upgraded to Ore Reserves, even after additional drilling. The numbers given are scheduled tonnes and carats 
as per the 2013 Life-of-Mine plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
%
US  
Rest of the world  
China/Hong Kong  
Japan  
Gulf  
India  
Total  
39
21
15
9
8
8
100
Source: De Beers
Source: De Beers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
%
US  
Rest of the world  
China/Hong Kong  
India  
Gulf  
Japan  
Total  
37
19
19
11
7
7
100
89
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 OTHER MINING AND INDUSTRIAL
Key financial and non-financial performance indicators
$ million (unless otherwise stated) 2013 2012
(1)
Underlying operating (loss)/profit (13) 168
Underlying EBITDA 81 289
Capital expenditure 53 171
Share of Group underlying operating profit (0.2)% 3%
Non-financial indicators
 (2)
2013 2012
Number of fatal injuries 4 1
Lost-time injury frequency rate 0.23 0.25
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements.  
See note 2 of the financial statements for details.
(2) 
Non-financial indicators are reported until point of divestment.
UNDERLYING OPERATING  
(LOSS)/PROFIT
(2012: $168 m)
 $
(
13
)
 m
SHARE OF GROUP UNDERLYING 
OPERATING PROFIT
(2012: 3%)
(
0.2
)
%
UNDERLYING EBITDA
(2012: $289 m)
$ 81 m
Duncan Wanblad 
CEO: Base Metals and Minerals
Image  
A Tarmac national 
contracting team during 
a major night time road 
resurfacing operation  
in the UK. 
90 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT OTHER MINING AND INDUSTRIAL AMAPÁ
Amapá recorded a nil underlying operating profit for the 
10 months to the completion of the divestment of the 
operation on 1 November 2013. All profits and losses 
generated by Amapá from the signing of the sale agreement 
at the end of 2012 to completion were for the account of the 
purchaser and therefore the underlying operating loss of 
$7 million incurred in the period has been excluded from the 
Group results. The loss of $7 million (2012: $54 million profit) 
was mainly due to the suspension of export shipments 
following the event on 28 March 2013 (see below). The 
reversal of penalty provisions, as a result of contract 
renegotiations, which had a beneficial impact on 2012 
underlying operating profit, was not repeated in 2013.
On 28 March 2013, a major geological event occurred  
which resulted in the tragic loss of four lives, with a further 
two people still missing, as well as the loss of the Santana 
port operation of Amapá and the suspension of all export 
shipments. A detailed and independent technical 
investigation was conducted and a report was shared  
with the authorities and the investigation commissions in 
September 2013. The independent investigation report 
indicates that the incident was not caused by operational 
factors, but was a result of an unpredictable combination  
of factors, including geotechnical factors.
On 4 January 2013, Anglo American announced that it  
had reached an agreement to sell its 70% interest in Amapá 
to Zamin Ferrous Ltd (Zamin). Following the 28 March 
event, Anglo American entered into further discussions  
with its partner Cliffs Natural Resources (Cliffs) and Zamin. 
Anglo American subsequently entered into an agreement 
with Cliffs to acquire its 30% interest in Amapá, subject  
to certain conditions, and entered into an amended sale 
agreement with Zamin to reflect Anglo American’s disposal 
of a 100% interest in Amapá to Zamin.
On 1 November 2013, Anglo American completed the 
acquisition from Cliffs and simultaneously completed the 
sale of the 100% interest in Amapá to Zamin for an initial 
total consideration of approximately $134 million, net of 
certain completion adjustments. In addition, Zamin will pay 
Anglo American conditional deferred consideration of up  
to a maximum of $130 million in total, payable over a 
five year period and calculated on the basis of the market 
price for iron ore. As part of the transaction, Anglo American 
has assumed responsibility for, and the risks and rewards  
of, certain insurance claims including those relating to the 
Santana port incident, through the purchase of the claims 
from Amapá at the full claim value.
TARMAC
Tarmac reported an underlying operating loss of $6 million, 
compared with a profit of $73 million in 2012. Tarmac’s 
underlying EBITDA was $88 million, 41% lower than in 2012. 
The results of 2012 included 100% of the contribution from 
Tarmac Quarry Materials, which formed part of the Lafarge 
Tarmac joint venture with effect from 7 January 2013.
Building products
A significant improvement in trading performance was 
driven by higher sales volumes and continued focus on 
managing the cost base in order to enhance margins and 
reduce operating costs. Unlike in 2012, there was minimal 
disruption from poor weather, which enabled building 
activity to continue throughout the year. During 2013, the 
market improved in certain sectors, particularly housing, 
and forecasts indicate that this improvement will continue  
in 2014.
Middle East
The Middle East business experienced a lull in activity  
levels and profitability in 2013, following the completion  
of three major projects in 2012 and early 2013. The road 
building market remains extremely competitive due to  
new entrants over the past two to three years, while some 
customers are becoming competitors through developing 
their own in-house asphalt and surfacing capability. The 
outlook for 2014, however, is now more positive, as several 
major schemes have been approved across the region and 
the forward order book is strengthening. The business  
has continued to focus on managing down key costs by 
improved raw material procurement, productivity and 
energy consumption initiatives and rationalisation of  
the workforce.
Lafarge Tarmac joint venture
On 7 January 2013, following final clearance from the UK 
Competition Commission, Anglo American and Lafarge 
announced the completion of the transaction to create an 
incorporated joint venture known as Lafarge Tarmac. 
The Group’s share in the underlying operating profit for the 
newly formed joint venture was $9 million, but cannot be 
validly compared to 2012 due to the separations and 
combinations of the merger. Despite weaker markets and 
no surplus carbon credit sales, revenue from the continuing 
operations contributing to the joint venture increased as a 
result of higher year-on-year volumes across all key product 
lines. Although cement prices declined during the year, 
largely as a result of the entry of a new competitor, excellent 
progress has been made with the integration process, with 
synergy delivery of $38 million (100%), which was 23% 
above original expectations. Although selected market 
indicators are pointing towards an improvement in 2014, 
Lafarge Tarmac remains cautious about the underlying 
strength of recovery within the construction sector.
On 14 January 2014, the UK Competition Commission (CC) 
published its final report relating to the investigation into the 
aggregates, cement and ready mix concrete (RMX) 
markets. In this report the CC concluded that there were 
aspects of the cement markets that had adverse effects on 
competition. Accordingly it has determined that, amongst 
other remedies, Lafarge Tarmac is required to divest of a 
cement plant (either the Cauldon or Tunstead cement 
plants, plus relevant depots), and (if required by a 
prospective purchaser) a number of RMX plants. The CC 
has determined that the prospective purchaser cannot be 
one of the existing cement producers in Great Britain. 
Lafarge Tarmac disputes the conclusions of the CC and is 
reviewing its options taking into account the best interests  
of its employees, contractors, customers and shareholders.
91
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 “ My role is to ensure the Board has the breadth 
of skills and experience to drive our strategy.”
GOVERNANCE
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION
I am pleased to introduce our 2013 governance report  
in which I will outline my approach to leadership of the  
Board to ensure it performs effectively and is accountable  
to shareholders. 
During the year, the Board discussed a wide range of  
topics and these are outlined in a new section on page 101. 
We welcomed a number of new directors in 2013 and  
made changes to our committee structure by expanding the 
membership of the Group Management Committee (GMC), 
disbanding the Executive Committee and introducing the 
Corporate (CorpCo) and Operational (OpCo) Committees, 
to facilitate more streamlined management of matters 
delegated to them. For more information on our 
committees, please refer to pages 97– 1 17. 
STRATEGY
With the arrival of Mark Cutifani as chief executive in April, 
came an important change in our approach to management 
of the Group and a comprehensive review of the Group’s 
strategy – ‘Driving Value’, the aim of which is to spend within 
our means and to deliver attractive capital returns. My role is 
to ensure the Board has the breadth of skills and experience 
to drive this and to encourage open and honest debate and 
challenge. I believe that the foundation of good returns  
is good governance.
As a board we are responsible for promoting the long term 
success of the Company by focusing on returns, improving 
productivity, exiting non-core assets that cannot deliver 
satisfactory returns and ensuring discipline around capital 
allocation. Our seven pillars of value: Safety and Health; 
Environment; Socio-political; People; Production; Cost; and 
Financial, will allow the Board to control and measure our 
performance. To achieve this we must have the right people 
and processes in place. For more information on our seven 
pillars please see pages 14– 15. 
Examples of activities reviewed and actions implemented  
by the Board as part of the revised strategy include the  
ongoing organisational changes, focus on capital returns, 
asset reviews leading to identification of opportunities  
for optimisation and the recent withdrawal from the  
Pebble project.
For more information on our seven pillars
see pages 14–15
For more information, visit 
www.angloamerican.com/sustainabledevelopment
Sir John Parker 
Chairman
IN THIS SECTION
92 Chairman’s introduction
94 Leadership 
94 The Board
97 Executive management
99 The role of the Board
 100 Our governance structure
 101 Key Board discussions 2013
 101 Strategy
 102 Board in action
 103 Effectiveness
 105 Engagement
 107 Safety and Sustainable  
Development Committee
 108 Nomination Committee
 109 Audit Committee
 111 Audit Committee report
 11 7 Remuneration Committee
 11 8 Directors’ remuneration report 
 144 Directors’ report 
 150 Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
 150 Responsibility statement
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 92
GOVERNANCE CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION DIVERSITY
Diversity is a core part of Anglo American’s values and  
our business units around the Group regularly share best 
practice in this area. We have set internal targets to support 
gender diversity and seek to nurture the pipeline of women 
throughout the organisation. We believe a more diverse 
workforce is beneficial for any business. 
In April, at the close of the AGM, 25% of the Board will be 
women and we have also enhanced ethnic diversity. 
Initiatives relating to other aspects of diversity are frequently 
introduced. More information on diversity can be found  
in the Strategic report on pages 18– 19 and 29 and in the 
S&SD report on our website.
BOARD REFRESHMENT
During 2013, we continued our process of board 
refreshment. Mark Cutifani replaced Cynthia Carroll as CEO, 
Byron Grote, Mphu Ramatlapeng and Jim Rutherford were 
appointed as non-executive directors and Peter Woicke 
retired from the Board. Judy Dlamini joined the Board on 
1 January 2014. Sir CK Chow and David Challen will step 
down at the close of the AGM. This means that since 
becoming chairman in August 2009 there will be, following 
the AGM, a 100% change in our non-executive directors. 
The Company will still be able to benefit from David Challen’s 
wisdom and experience as he has agreed to act as an 
advisor to Anglo American for at least a further year. His 
remuneration as an advisor will be the same as that for a 
non-executive director. His role will be to provide advice to 
the chairman and the executives on corporate activity and 
major structural changes as well as maintaining a watching 
brief over certain aspects of the Company’s Singapore-
based trading operation. Byron Grote will be appointed as 
chairman of the Audit Committee upon David Challen’s 
retirement as a non-executive director, and his extensive 
financial experience, in particular as CFO of BP , will be 
invaluable to the Company. In addition, Sir Philip Hampton 
will become the senior independent non-executive director 
upon David Challen’s retirement.
Details of site visits and directors’ training can be found on 
pages 102– 104 in the Board in action and Effectiveness 
sections of this report.
BOARD EVALUATION
As your chairman I am responsible for the leadership of  
the Board and for its effectiveness. We undertake Board 
evaluations annually, with an external evaluation every  
three years. The Board is polled individually and 
confidentially about issues such as strategy, risk 
management, board management, agenda topics and 
project management etc. The results of this exercise are 
then translated into an action plan for debate with the Board, 
and goals are set around those actions. The results of the 
achievements against the action plan followed in 2013, are 
detailed on page 104. Board evaluations encourage honesty 
and openness and provide an opportunity for the Company 
to improve the functioning and effectiveness of the Board by  
empowering directors to question and comment on the 
workings of the Group.
GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENTS 
During 2013, the government introduced new requirements 
for companies to produce a strategic report and remove 
other less meaningful disclosures. This allows us to 
communicate more concisely to our shareholders. 
Reporting standards have recently placed emphasis on 
human rights and gender representation. Anglo American 
was an early adopter of the strategic report style and this 
year’s can be found on pages 2–91. 
We welcome the recently implemented binding vote on 
remuneration and seek to maintain a fair and transparent 
remuneration policy linked to company performance and 
shareholder value. The Directors’ remuneration report can 
be found on pages 1 18– 143. There has been much recent 
interest in improving stewardship of companies by investors 
and we will embrace the opportunity for better engagement. 
For more information on our approach, and our 
comprehensive programme of meetings with investors 
throughout the year, including the Annual General Meeting 
and global road shows, please see the Engagement section 
on pages 105– 106.
UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
I confirm that during the period, applying the relevant 
transitional guidance regarding audit tendering, we have 
complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Recognising that it would not be practical to expect all 
companies to adopt immediately the newly introduced 
provisions on audit tendering, the FRC published transitional 
guidance providing for a phased introduction of audit 
tendering. In compliance with this guidance, and in light of 
proposed UK legislation and ongoing discussions at the EU, 
Anglo American proposes not to tender during the current 
audit partner’s tenure. More detail on our approach to this  
is set out in the report of the Audit Committee on page 1 12. 
As in previous years, we have provided a checklist on our 
website detailing how we have complied with the provisions 
of the Code.
Sir John Parker 
Chairman
93 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Governance CHAIRMAN
Sir John Parker
GBE, FREng, DSc (Eng), ScD (Hon), DSc (Hon), DUniv (Hon), FRINA 
71, joined the Board as a non-executive director on 9 July 
2009 and became chairman on 1 August 2009. Sir John  
is also chairman of the Nomination Committee and is a 
member of the Safety and Sustainable Development 
(S&SD) Committee. Sir John is recognised as a highly 
experienced and independent chairman and brings a wealth 
of leadership experience across a range of industries in 
many countries, including in South Africa.
He is a non-executive director of Carnival Corporation  
and Airbus Group as well as deputy chairman of DP World. 
Sir John is also President of the Royal Academy of 
Engineering and a Visiting Fellow of the University of Oxford. 
Sir John was previously chairman of National Grid plc, senior 
non-executive director and chair of the Court of the Bank of 
England, joint chair of Mondi and chair of BVT and P&O plc.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Mark Cutifani
BE (Mining Engineering)
55, was appointed as a director and CEO with effect from 
3 April 2013, and is chairman of the Group Management 
Committee (GMC) and a member of the Corporate 
Committee (CorpCo) and the S&SD Committee. Mark  
has over 37 years’ experience of the mining industry across 
a wide range of geographies and commodities. 
He is a non-executive director of Anglo American Platinum 
Limited and was previously CEO of AngloGold Ashanti 
Limited. Before joining AngloGold Ashanti, Mark was COO 
at Vale Inco, where he was responsible for Vale’s global 
nickel business. Prior to this he held senior executive 
positions with the Normandy Group, Sons of Gwalia, 
Western Mining Corporation, Kalgoorlie Consolidated 
Gold Mines and CRA (Rio Tinto).
FINANCE DIRECTOR
René Médori
Doctorate in Economics
56, was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2005, becoming 
finance director on 1 September 2005. René is a member  
of the GMC and chairman of CorpCo and the Investment 
Committee. René brings significant financial and 
commercial expertise from capital intensive businesses, 
supplying products to the oil refining, steel and mining 
industries and experience in international finance in the  
UK, Europe and the United States.
He is a non-executive director of Anglo American Platinum 
Limited and Petrofac Limited. René is a former finance 
director of The BOC Group plc and was a non-executive 
director of SSE plc (formerly Scottish and Southern 
Energy plc).
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
David Challen
MA, MBA 
70, joined the Board on 9 September 2002 and was 
appointed as the senior independent non-executive director 
(SID) in April 2008. He is chairman of the Audit Committee 
and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees. David brings an in-depth understanding  
of capital markets and key insights on financial matters. 
David is currently chairman of the EMEA governance 
committee at Citigroup and senior non-executive director  
of Smiths Group plc. He is currently a deputy chairman of 
the UK’s Takeover Panel. Previously he was chairman of 
J. Henry Schroder & Co. Limited, where he spent most  
of his professional career.
David will step down from the Board at the forthcoming 
AGM.
LEADERSHIP
THE BOARD
David Challen
Sir John Parker
René Médori
Mark Cutifani
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 94
GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Sir CK Chow
DEng (Hon), CEng, FREng, HonFHKIE, FIChemE
63, was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008 and is a 
member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees. 
He is currently chairman of Hong Kong Exchanges and 
Clearing Limited and a non-executive director of AIA  
Group Limited. Sir CK contributes broad business and  
board experience.
Sir CK is a member of the Executive Council of the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region, chairman of the Hong 
Kong General Chamber of Commerce and chairman of the 
Advisory Committee on Corruption for the Hong Kong SAR 
Government. Between 2003 and 201 1, he was CEO of the 
MTR Corporation in Hong Kong. Former positions include 
those of CEO of Brambles Industries, GKN PLC and 
non-executive chairman of Standard Chartered Bank (Hong 
Kong) Limited. Prior to joining GKN PLC he worked for The 
BOC Group plc for 20 years, joining its board in 1993.
Sir CK will step down from the Board at the forthcoming 
AGM.
Judy Dlamini
MBChB, DOH, MBA
54, was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2014 and is  
a member of the Audit Committee. She will be appointed 
as a member of the Remuneration Committee at the 
conclusion of the AGM. Judy is a successful businesswoman 
with longstanding public company board experience across 
a range of geographies and sectors, including mining.
She is the chairman of Aspen Pharmacare and founder and 
chairman of Mbekani Group, a South African healthcare 
investment company. Judy served as a non-executive 
director of Northam Platinum between 2004 and 2013,  
and as a member of that company’s committees on: health; 
safety and environmental; investment; and social, ethics  
and human resources. She started her career as a medical 
practitioner and after spending two years at HSBC, she 
began to develop her entrepreneurial interests. Judy is  
also a founder and trustee of Mkhiwa Trust, a family vehicle 
for social responsibility initiatives, and has served as a 
non-executive director on the boards of Discovery Holdings 
and Woolworths Holdings.
Byron Grote
PhD Quantitative Analysis
65, was appointed to the Board on 19 April 2013 and is a 
member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. Byron 
contributes broad business, financial and board experience 
in numerous geographies.
He is a non-executive director of Unilever NV and Unilever 
plc. Byron has extensive management experience across 
the oil and gas industry. He served on the BP plc board from 
2000 until 2013 and was BP’s chief financial officer during 
much of that period.
Byron will succeed David Challen as chairman of the 
Audit Committee.
Sir Philip Hampton
MA, ACA, MBA
60, joined the Board on 9 November 2009. He is chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the  
Audit Committee. Sir Philip is chairman of The Royal Bank  
of Scotland and brings to Anglo American significant 
financial, strategic and boardroom experience across a 
number of industries. 
His previous appointments include chairman of J Sainsbury 
plc; finance director of Lloyds TSB Group plc, BT Group plc, 
BG Group plc, British Gas plc and British Steel plc, executive 
director of Lazards, and non-executive director of RMC 
Group plc and Belgacom SA.
Sir Philip will succeed David Challen as the senior 
independent director at the conclusion of the AGM.
Phuthuma Nhleko
BSc (Eng), MBA
53, joined the Board on 9 March 201 1 and is a member of 
the Audit and Nomination Committees. Phuthuma is also 
chairman of Pembani Group (Pty) Limited and Afrisam 
South Africa (Pty) Limited and a non-executive director of 
BP plc. He is chairman of MTN Group Ltd, having formerly 
been the President and CEO from 2002 to 201 1. He brings 
broad business experience and previously served as a 
director on a number of boards in South Africa: Nedbank 
Group; Alexander Forbes; Bidvest; and Old Mutual (SA).
Sir CK Chow Judy Dlamini Byron Grote
Sir Philip Hampton Phuthuma Nhleko
95 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Governance Ray O’Rourke
KBE, HonFREng, CEng, FIEI, FICE
67, joined the Board on 1 1 December 2009. He is a member 
of the Nomination, Remuneration and S&SD Committees. 
Ray has a proven track record in delivering complex and 
large-scale projects around the world, mobilising large 
numbers of people with great success and applying leading 
project management practices. As a member of the S&SD 
Committee, he has a keen interest in safety.
Ray founded the O’Rourke Group in 1977, having begun his 
career at Kier and J Murphy & Sons. In 2001, the O’Rourke 
Group acquired John Laing to form Laing O’Rourke, now 
Europe’s largest privately owned construction company,  
of which Ray is chairman.
Mphu Ramatlapeng
MD, MHSc
61, was appointed to the Board on 8 July 2013 and is  
a member of the S&SD Committee. Mphu is a highly 
experienced leader who brings a broad range of South 
African and international health expertise at board level 
across both the public and private sectors. She has a clear 
vision and deep understanding of the social benefits of  
effective healthcare programmes and capacity building 
through partnership.
Mphu is the Executive Vice President of HIV/AIDS and 
Tuberculosis programmes for the Clinton Health Access 
Initiative and also the Vice Chair of the Global Fund to Fight 
AIDS, TB and Malaria. She served as Minister of Health and 
Social Welfare of Lesotho between 2007 and 2012. In this 
role, she championed Lesotho’s significant achievements 
in reducing the transmission of HIV from mother to child. 
Across her career, she has also been a leading advocate for 
women in business, including serving as founding board 
member of Women in Business in Lesotho.
Jim Rutherford
BSc (Econ), MA (Econ)
54, joined the Board on 4 November 2013. Jim is a member 
of the S&SD Committee and will be appointed as a member 
of the Audit Committee at the conclusion of the AGM. He 
has extensive experience in investment management and 
investment banking, both as an institutional investor and 
analyst. He brings to the Board considerable financial insight 
from the perspective of the capital markets and a deep 
strategic understanding of the mining industry. 
Between 1997 and 2013, he was a Senior Vice President  
of Capital International Investors, and had responsibility for 
investments in the mining and metals industry with a broad 
geographic focus that included Europe, Emerging Markets 
and Australasia. Prior to joining Capital Group, Jim was an 
investment analyst covering the South American mining and 
metals industry for HSBC James Capel in New York.
Anne Stevens
BSc, PhD
65, joined the Board on 14 May 2012 and is a member  
of the Audit and Nomination Committees. Anne brings a 
wealth of experience and wide-ranging commercial acumen 
from a number of global industries including engineering. 
She has experience gained across North, Central and  
South America.
Anne has served on the board of Lockheed Martin 
Corporation as a non-executive director since 2002, and is 
also the chairman of a privately held IT services business,  
SA IT. Anne’s 16-year career with the Ford Motor Company 
culminated in her appointment as chief operating officer 
(COO) for the Americas, a position she held until 2006. Prior 
to joining Ford in 1990, Anne spent 10 years in a number of 
engineering, product development, and sales and marketing 
roles at Exxon Chemical Co, and three years as chairman 
and CEO of Carpenter Technology.
Jack Thompson
BSc, PhD
63, joined the Board on 16 November 2009, is chairman of 
the S&SD Committee and a member of the Remuneration 
Committee. Jack brings experience gained at all levels of  
the mining industry and has received wide recognition as a 
mining executive. He is currently a non-executive director  
of Tidewater Inc. 
Jack was previously chairman and CEO of Homestake 
Mining Co., vice chairman of Barrick Gold Corp. and  
has served on the boards of Centerra Gold Inc., Century 
Aluminum Co., Molycorp Inc., Phelps Dodge Corp.,  
Rinker Group Ltd. and Stillwater Mining.
Ray O’Rourke
Anne Stevens Jack Thompson
Mphu Ramatlapeng Jim Rutherford
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 96
GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP René Médori
Mervyn Walker Peter Whitcutt
Khanyisile Kweyama
Tony O’Neill
Tony O’Neill
MBA, BASc (Eng)
55, is Group director, technical, and joined Anglo American 
in 2013. He is a member of the S&SD and Investment 
Committees. He is also a non-executive director of Kumba 
Iron Ore and Anglo American Platinum Limited.
Tony joined AngloGold Ashanti in July 2008 as Executive 
Vice President – Business and Technical Development and 
served as Joint Acting CEO until July 2013. His 35-year 
career in the mining industry has spanned iron ore, copper, 
nickel and gold, and includes his roles as operations 
executive at Newcrest Mining and as the head of the gold 
business at Western Mining Corporation. Tony is a mining 
engineer with an MBA from the University of Melbourne.
Mervyn Walker
MA (Oxon)
54, is Group director, HR and corporate affairs. He is a 
solicitor by training and joined Anglo American in 2008  
from Mondi, where he was group HR and legal director.  
He is currently also non-executive chairman of pension 
schemes for AMEC plc. Mervyn previously held a series of 
senior roles at British Airways, including HR director, legal 
director, director of purchasing and director of UK airports. 
Peter Whitcutt
BCom (Hons), CA (SA), MBA
48, is Group director, strategy, business development and 
commercial. He joined Anglo American in 1990 within the 
corporate finance division. He worked on the merger of 
Minorco with Anglo American, the listing of Anglo American 
in 1999, and the subsequent unwinding of the cross-holding 
with De Beers. Peter was appointed Group head of finance 
in 2003, CFO of Base Metals in August 2008 and to his 
present position in October 2009, which was expanded to 
include Commercial in 2013.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 
The Company has one principal executive committee 
– the Group Management Committee (GMC) (which 
meets monthly) is responsible for formulating Group 
strategy for consideration and approval by the Board, 
setting budget and performance targets, talent 
management and managing the Group’s portfolio. The 
GMC is supported by a Corporate sub- committee 
(CorpCo), an Operational sub-committee (OpCo) and 
an Investment sub-committee (InvestCo). CorpCo 
meets at least monthly and is principally responsible 
for reviewing corporate policies and processes, as  
well as reviewing financial performance and budgets 
at a Business Unit level. OpCo meets quarterly. Its 
responsibilities include driving operational best 
practices across the Group and the setting of technical 
standards. Investco meets at least monthly and is 
principally responsible for making recommendations 
to the GMC on capital investment proposals.
GMC AND CORPORATE COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Mark Cutifani
See page 94 for biographical details.
René Médori
See page 94 for biographical details.
Khanyisile Kweyama 
BS Administration (USA), PDM (Wits), MM Human Resources (Wits)
48, is Executive director, Anglo American South Africa 
Limited and a non-executive director of Anglo American 
Platinum Limited. Khanyisile formerly served on the 
executive committee of Anglo American Platinum Limited, 
during which time she was successful in building a cohesive 
management team, driving performance and improving 
relationships with unions. She gained corporate experience 
in a number of international companies, including BMW, 
Altech and Barloworld Ltd, holding executive roles 
incorporating human resources, industrial relations, 
corporate affairs, stakeholder relations and transformation. 
She has also been elected as the vice president of the South 
African Chamber of Mines. She has served as a non-
executive director at various companies, including the 
boards of Sovereign Foods Ltd, IAC and Key Mix 
Investments, and currently serves on the boards of Business 
Leadership South Africa (BLSA), Telkom, New Partnership 
for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) business forum and the 
International Geology Forum (IGF).
Mark Cutifani
97 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Governance Norman Mbazima
FCCA, FZICA
55, was appointed CEO of Kumba Iron Ore with effect from 
1 September 2012. He joined Anglo American in 2001 at 
Konkola Copper Mines plc. He was subsequently appointed 
global CFO for Anglo Coal. He became executive director of 
finance at Anglo American Platinum Limited in June 2006 
and later stepped in as joint acting CEO. Prior to this, 
Norman was CEO of Scaw Metals from May 2008 and later 
CEO of Thermal Coal from October 2009, a position he held 
until 2012.
Philippe Mellier
MSc (Mechanical Engineering), MBA
58, was appointed CEO of De Beers Group in July 201 1.  
He began his career in 1980 with the Ford Motor Company, 
where he occupied various senior management positions 
over 19 years. In 1999, Philippe joined Renault as a senior 
vice president in charge of European sales, and was a 
member of the management board. In 2001 he moved to 
Volvo AB to become chairman and CEO of Renault Trucks, 
and a member of the Volvo Group executive committee. In 
2003, Philippe became president of Alstom Transport and 
was appointed executive vice president of Alstom Group a 
year later.
Duncan Wanblad
BSc (Eng) Mech, GDE (Eng Management)
47, is CEO of Base Metals and Minerals. He began his  
career at Johannesburg Consolidated Investment Company 
Limited in 1990. Between 2009 and 2013, Duncan held  
the position of group director, Other Mining and Industrial 
businesses. He was appointed to the board of Anglo 
American Platinum Limited in 2004 and was appointed joint 
interim CEO of Anglo American Platinum in 2007, before 
taking over as CEO of Anglo American’s copper operations 
in 2008.
GMC MEMBERS
Paulo Castellari-Porchia
Bcom, MBA
43, is CEO of Iron Ore Brazil. He was previously CEO of 
Anglo American’s Phosphates and Niobium businesses in 
Brazil and served in Anglo American’s former Base Metals 
division. Paulo’s career with the Group started in 1993 and 
has included positions at AngloGold Ashanti and Minorco in 
a number of corporate finance and capital project roles.
Seamus French
B Eng (Chemical)
51, is CEO of Coal. He joined WMC Resources in Australia 
in 1994, initially in a strategic planning and business 
development role and progressed to various operational 
management roles, gaining extensive experience in the  
gold and nickel businesses before advancing to the position 
of executive general manager, copper-uranium division. 
Seamus joined BHP Billiton as global vice president, 
business excellence, following its takeover of WMC in 2005. 
He was appointed regional CEO of Anglo Coal Australia in 
2007, bringing strong skills in operations, safety and 
business improvement to the role. He was CEO of 
Metallurgical Coal between 2009 and 2013.
Chris Griffith
B Eng (Mining) Hons, Pr Eng
48, was appointed CEO of Anglo American Platinum 
Limited with effect from 1 September 2012. He was 
previously CEO of Kumba Iron Ore from 2008. Prior to this 
he was Anglo American Platinum’s head of operations for 
joint ventures. Chris has been with Anglo American for more 
than 24 years.
Philippe Mellier Duncan Wanblad
Chris Griffith
Norman Mbazima
Paulo Castellari-Porchia Seamus French
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 98
GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP THE ROLE OF THE BOARD 
The Board of directors has a duty to promote the long  
term success of the Company for its shareholders. Its  
role includes the establishment, review and monitoring  
of strategic objectives, approval of major acquisitions, 
disposals and capital expenditure, and overseeing the 
Group’s systems of internal control, governance and  
risk management. 
Our Board Charter sets out, inter alia, the mandate of the 
Board and those powers that it does not delegate to its 
committees, such as approval of business plans, budgets 
and material expenditure. It serves to ensure that board 
members acting on behalf of Anglo American are aware  
of their main roles, duties and responsibilities, and to ensure 
that the highest principles of corporate governance are 
applied in all their dealings in respect of, and on behalf of,  
the Company. It also covers the appointment and removal  
of directors, the establishment of Board committees,  
Board procedures, director and Board evaluation and the 
delegation of authority to the executive management.
Every year the Board holds a two-day strategy meeting at 
which the non-executive directors (NEDs) contribute their 
expertise and independent perspective in developing the 
strategy of the Company. 
Role of the chairman 
The Board is chaired by Sir John Parker. The chairman is 
responsible for leading the Board and for its effectiveness. 
Role of the chief executive
The CEO is responsible for the execution of strategy  
and the day-to-day management of the Group, supported  
by GMC and CorpCo, which are currently chaired by  
Mark Cutifani and René Médori respectively. The functions  
and membership of GMC and CorpCo are set out on  
pages 97–98. 
The Company has adopted the Institute of Chartered 
Secretaries and Administrators’ Statement of Division  
of Responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO. 
Role of the senior independent director
David Challen is the senior independent non-executive 
director (SID). The SID is available to shareholders, acts  
as a sounding board and confidant for the chairman and  
is available as an intermediary for the other directors  
if necessary. Sir Philip Hampton will assume the role  
of SID upon Mr Challen’s retirement on 24 April 2014. 
Company secretary
The company secretary works closely with the chairman  
in providing guidance on governance issues. During our 
recent board and committee evaluations, the company 
secretary encouraged open feedback from directors  
and follow up of actions resulting from these reviews as  
part of the ongoing process of improvement. For more 
information please see the Board evaluation action  
plan on page 104.
99 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Governance OUR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
Subject to those matters reserved for its decision, the  
Board delegates certain responsibilities to a number  
of standing committees – the Safety and Sustainable 
Development (S&SD), Remuneration, Nomination and Audit 
Committees. These committees are made up of a majority 
of non-executive directors who contribute an independent, 
external perspective and who make recommendations to 
the wider Board on issues discussed. The minutes of these 
committees are reviewed at each board meeting and the 
chairmen of each committee reports, at each board 
meeting, on the activities of the relevant committee. The 
Company and directors expect high levels of attendance at 
meetings and those for 2013 are shown in the table below. 
Pages 107– 1 10 and 1 17 set out the activities of these 
committees throughout the year. 
The Board also delegates certain responsibilities to the 
Group Management Committee (GMC) which is made  
up of executives. For more information on the executive 
committees, please see pages 97–98. 
In addition to the above committees, the Investment 
Committee, Corporate Committee and Operational 
Committee provide advice to, and have certain authorities 
delegated to them, by the GMC.
The members of these committees are as follows:
 • Corporate Committee – please see page 97
 • Operational Committee – Tony O’Neill (chairman),  
Mark Cutifani, Paulo Castellari-Porchia, Seamus French, 
Chris Griffith, Norman Mbazima, Philippe Mellier and 
Duncan Wanblad
Board and Committee meetings 2013 – frequency and attendance
Independent  Board
(seven
meetings)
Audit
(four  
meetings)
S&SD
(four 
meetings)
Remuneration 
(four 
meetings)
Nomination
(four
 meetings)
Sir John Parker n/a All – All – All
Cynthia Carroll
(1)
No Two – One – –
Mark Cutifani
(2)
No All – All – –
René Médori No All – – – –
David Challen Yes All All – All All
Sir CK Chow Yes Six
(3)
– – All All
Byron Grote
(2)
Yes All All – All –
Sir Philip Hampton Yes Six
(3)
Three – All –
Phuthuma Nhleko Yes Six All – – All
Ray O’Rourke Yes All All All All All
Mphu Ramatlapeng
(2)
Yes All – All – –
Jim Rutherford
(2)
Yes All – All – –
Anne Stevens
(2)
 Yes Six
(3)
Three – – All
Jack Thompson Yes All – All All –
Peter Woicke
(1)
Yes Two
(3)
– All All All
(1) 
Meetings attended prior to retirement.
(2) 
Meetings attended since appointment.
(3) 
Not able to attend unscheduled meeting held in January.
Executive and Non-executive
Non-executive
Executive
Delegation
Recommendation
Board and committee structure
Investment 
Committee
Corporate 
Committee
Operational 
Committee
Group 
Management 
Committee
Board
Audit 
Committee
Safety and 
Sustainable 
Development 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
 • Investment Committee – René Médori (chairman),  
Tony O’Neill, Nimesh Patel and Peter Whitcutt.
The terms of reference for the principal committees and  
a schedule of matters reserved for the Board’s decision are 
published on the Company’s website. 
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 100
GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP STRATEGY
In June, the Board spent two days challenging and 
developing the Anglo American strategy with the new  
CEO Mark Cutifani. The Board received presentations from 
executives and agreed to focus on the key challenges as 
detailed below. These were communicated in the Interim 
Results presentation in July, namely: Anglo American 
Platinum restructure; Kumba revitalisation; social 
complexity and industrial threats in South Africa; Copper 
production delivery – Collahuasi/Los Bronces recovery; 
Barro Alto furnace recovery and rebuild programme; 
Minas-Rio project; De Beers delivery; and Metallurgical Coal 
cost management.
The strategy was further communicated at the Investor  
Day in December which set out goals for the Group’s 
performance and action plans to achieve them. This 
included an improved target ROCE of at least 15%, focus  
on capital allocation and optimisation of the portfolio. The 
Board played a key part in strategic decisions such as the 
exit from the Pebble Project after a thorough assessment  
of the extensive pipeline of long-dated project options.  
The Board agreed to prioritise capital to projects with the 
highest value and lowest risks, and reduce the capital 
required as part of a more effective, value-driven capital 
allocation model.
For more information on the Group’s strategy see pages 
14 and 15.
KEY BOARD DISCUSSIONS 2013
The standing agenda sets the framework for board 
meetings throughout the year and includes items such as 
safety and health, environment, people and organisation, 
production, projects and exploration, finance and 
commercial, strategy and business development, external 
relations and progress on critical tasks. In addition, specific 
items are dealt with as and when necessary. 
Examples of these specific items are set out below.
January 
The Board reviewed the proceedings of the Audit 
Committee held immediately prior to the board meeting  
and noted and agreed with its recommendations for the 
Minas-Rio project concerning revised capital expenditure, 
an accounting impairment and the related press release. 
February 
The Board discussed a recommendation for the 2012 final 
dividend which the shareholders subsequently approved  
at the AGM. The Board was updated on visits made by  
Cynthia Carroll, Brian Beamish and René Médori to China 
and India in mid-January. The Board also held a thorough 
review of Anglo American Platinum.
April 
Mark Cutifani was welcomed to his first meeting as CEO  
and the Board discussed the new CEO’s agenda. It also 
reviewed a Commercial Operating Model update.
June
The Board agreed certain changes to committee 
compositions and received a detailed progress report on 
Minas-Rio. The Board held a two-day strategy meeting as 
detailed below.
July 
The Board approved the 2013 interim dividend. Mr Cutifani 
led a discussion on key challenges for the Group including 
strategies to improve return on capital employed (ROCE) 
and manage business execution, capital allocation and 
stakeholder engagement. The Board also discussed the 
Pebble Project in Alaska which the Group subsequently 
exited later in the year.
October
The Board discussed proposed organisation changes and 
the Kumba Iron Ore/Arcelor Mittal dispute.
December 
Tony O’Neill presented a technical overview and report on 
findings regarding Sishen, Los Bronces, Quellaveco and 
Minas-Rio. The Board reviewed the presentation for the 
Analyst and Investor Strategy event held in December and 
the Thermal Coal Trading Pilot. The Board approved the 
budget and plan for 2014–2016.
101 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Governance BOARD IN ACTION
As part of directors’ induction and ongoing training 
programme, as well as being an opportunity to review 
independently the Company’s business, board members 
made a number of visits to the Group’s operations 
throughout the year. Site visits allow greater insight into 
challenges faced in the field, and facilitate better decision 
making by the Board. 
NEDs’ fact finding trips
Jack Thompson, Ray O’Rourke and Jim Rutherford  
made site visits and gave feedback on their findings as 
summarised in the table below.
Board visit to South Africa
The Board travelled to South Africa for the October meeting. 
Certain directors participated in a mining course and  
others in a site visit to the De Beers Venetia mine. During  
the mine visit, directors met management and employees, 
toured the operation and received an overview of De Beers 
and the diamond industry. Judy Dlamini, Byron Grote, 
Phuthuma Nhleko, Mphu Ramatlapeng and Anne Stevens 
attended the mining course covering items such as 
geosciences, mining and processing. Those attending found 
that the session was most valuable and recommended that 
all future NEDs attend such a course to inform them further 
on the complex nature of mining.
“Site visits allow 
greater insight 
into challenges 
faced in the 
field, and 
facilitate better 
decision making 
by the Board” 
Jack Thompson  
Non-executive 
director
Board site visits
Location Topics discussed Key results/findings
Cerrejón – Thermal Coal, Colombia P40 expansion and its implementation 
including relocation of communities.
Familiarised with country and local 
situation. High quality of the staff on  
site. Cerrejón’s S&SD programmes  
are commendable.
Peace River – Metallurgical Coal, Canada Expansion of the operation to world class 
status and review of environmental 
management.
Confirmation of operation’s potential.  
The ambitious strategy and vision for  
the unit was very good.
Snap Lake – De Beers Diamonds, Canada Observation of joint AA and De Beers 
internal S&SD audit. Water quality and 
community engagement.
The mine and plant are first rate and  
well run. Good work being carried out  
by the community affairs group.
Dishaba – Platinum, South Africa Review of working conditions for  
narrow reef mining and potential for 
mechanisation at the mine face.
Greater appreciation of the challenges 
faced including migrant labour and  
housing issues.
01  M o g a l a k w e n a m i n e  
visit – from right to  
left: Mark Cutifani,  
Jim Rutherford,  
Chris Griffith and  
Mogalakwena mine 
production manager 
David Malunga
02  Mining course for 
non-executive directors 
– Phuthuma Nhleko
03  Mining course for 
non-executive directors 
– Judy Dlamini 
04  Mining course for 
non-executive directors 
– from left to right:  
Mphu Ramatlapeng  
and Anne Stevens
04 01
02
03
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 102
GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP The FRC’s Guidance on board effectiveness states that,  
“the board’s role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of 
the company within a framework of prudent and effective 
controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.”
For a board to be effective it must be composed of the right 
people, led by a strong (but not dominant) chairman and 
maintain independence with a majority of the Board 
composed of non-executive directors. The Board must 
evaluate its performance and seek to continually improve its 
approach to promoting the success of the company for the 
benefit of its stakeholders. The directors must be sufficiently 
educated in the operation of the company in order to make 
informed decisions. The Board should delegate certain 
matters to committees which afford specialist discussion 
outside the board environment. We seek to do our utmost to 
promote a high performing board and some of the ways we 
do this are detailed below.
Independence of directors
The Board has a strong independent element and currently 
comprises, in addition to the chairman, two executive 
directors and eleven NEDs, all of whom are independent 
according to the definition contained in the Code. Full 
biographical details for each director are given on pages  
94–96. The letters of appointment of the NEDs (as well as 
the executive directors’ service contracts) are available for 
inspection at the registered office of the Company.
None of the NEDs has served concurrently with an 
executive director for more than nine years. 
Sir Philip Hampton will assume the role of senior 
independent director upon David Challen’s retirement 
on 24 April 2014.
Director training
Anglo American’s directors have a wide range of expertise 
as well as significant experience in strategic, financial, 
commercial and mining activities. 
Upon appointment, directors are provided with recent board 
materials and a reference manual containing information on 
legal obligations and other matters of which they should be 
aware. Guidance is provided on Market Conduct under the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the Company’s Articles, 
the Code and the Model Code. The manual also includes 
items such as board and committee terms of reference, 
relevant company information and guidance on where to 
obtain independent advice. The manual is updated 
periodically when appropriate. 
As part of the directors’ formal induction process, meetings 
are arranged with senior executives in order to develop a  
full understanding of the Anglo American Group. During 
2013, Byron Grote, Mphu Ramatlapeng and Jim Rutherford 
participated over a number of days in meetings with GMC 
members, business unit (BU) heads and members of the 
Board. Judy Dlamini attended briefings in early 2014.
Training and briefings are also available to directors 
throughout their tenure, as necessary, taking into account 
existing qualifications and experience. Directors also have 
access to management, and to the advice of the company 
secretary. Furthermore, all directors are entitled to seek 
independent professional advice concerning the affairs of 
Anglo American at the Company’s expense, although no 
such advice was sought during 2013. Regular presentations 
are made to the Board by BU management on the activities 
of operations. 
The company secretary facilitates board training and  
during the year directors attended courses on, inter alia, 
finance, corporate governance, strategy, compliance, 
regulatory developments, audit committee issues and 
general director duties and responsibilities. The  
directors are given the opportunity to discuss their 
development needs with the chairman during individual 
feedback meetings.
Board evaluation
Please see the table overleaf for the results of our externally 
facilitated evaluation which took place in 2012 and the 
achievements against goals, set around it during 2013. In  
our last annual report, we disclosed our intention to include 
comments from the external board evaluation in the board 
agendas for the proceeding 12- 18 month period. The Board 
was described as “balanced”, with a “wide range of depth 
and breadth of skills and experience”. The induction 
programme offered to new NEDs which included site visits 
was received positively and “deepened the understanding of 
the business”. The overall board dynamics were described 
as “respectful challenge, without any cosiness”.
A further internal evaluation was conducted in late 2013 with 
goals set for 2014 which will be reported against in next 
year’s annual report.
EFFECTIVENESS
“ The board’s role is to provide entrepreneurial 
leadership of the company within a framework 
of prudent and effective controls which enables 
risk to be assessed and managed.”
103 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Governance Board Evaluation Action Plan 2013
2012/2013 board action plan Achievements against action plan
Strategy and strategy 
process
More frequent strategy discussion required 
with focus on growth in earnings strategy
Strategy included as regular item at board 
meetings and June 2013 strategy meeting. 
Focus on longer term including + 10 years 
outlook
Audit Committee More stress testing (and fantail forecasting) 
in key areas
Areas reviewed included: commodity pricing 
volatility; cash flow; China economic impact; 
inflation changes; impact on mining costs; 
ROCE scenarios
Investments, acquisitions 
and disposals
Allocate more time to discuss strategic 
implications of acquisitions and 
organisational changes
More time allocated in board meetings
Project management More assurance on key learnings from 
challenging projects
Presentations prepared accordingly
Executive remuneration Review of how we incentivise the right 
behaviours in creating long term 
shareholder value
Review carried out, draft proposals drawn up 
and discussed with major shareholders, after 
which the Remuneration Committee agreed 
the final changes
Improving board meeting 
effectiveness
Improve the structure of the board agenda 
to facilitate informed debate and focus on 
important issues.
Priority decisions clearly flagged on the 
agenda and priority topics scheduled at the 
beginning of the agenda. Agenda colour 
coded to differentiate between items for 
noting, approval and for information
Board and NED knowledge 
development
NEDs requested more site visit 
opportunities
The Board holds one meeting a year 
overseas to incorporate a mine visit. In 
addition, arrangements were made for NEDs 
to visit various operations during the year. See 
‘Board in action’
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 104
GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS ENGAGEMENT
COMMUNICATING WITH OUR INVESTORS 
The Company maintains an active engagement with its key 
financial audiences, including institutional shareholders and 
sell-side analysts, as well as potential shareholders. The 
Investor Relations department manages the interaction with 
these audiences and regular presentations take place at the 
time of interim and final results as well as during the rest of 
the year. An active programme of communication with 
potential shareholders is also maintained. A schedule of 
investor relations activities carried out during 2013 is shown 
on the following page.
Board oversight
Any significant concerns raised by a shareholder in relation 
to the Company and its affairs are communicated to the 
Board. The Board is briefed on a regular basis by the 
Investor Relations department and analysts’ reports are 
circulated to the directors. Feedback from meetings held 
between executive management, or the Investor Relations 
department, and institutional shareholders is also 
communicated to the Board.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM gives an opportunity to shareholders to pose 
questions to the directors and senior executives of the 
Company. Business to be discussed at the meeting is 
notified in advance to shareholders in the Notice of Meeting 
and covers matters such as the annual election of directors, 
appointment of auditors and dividend declaration. The 
financial statements and the report of the directors and 
auditors are laid before the shareholders for approval. Due 
to the enactment of the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform 
Act 2013, changes have been made to the way shareholders 
approve the Directors’ remuneration report. In 2014, 
shareholders will be asked to vote on the remuneration 
policy and implementation report and the vote on the 
remuneration policy will be binding. 
At the Company’s AGM in 2013, the chairman and CEO 
answered questions on: the Company’s operations and the 
communities impacted by them; dividends; governance; 
silicosis; and the Pebble project.
A special resolution relating to the disapplication of 
pre-emption rights, did not achieve the necessary 75% 
majority and thus was not passed. Although this is a routine 
resolution for public companies in the UK, South Africa 
based shareholders oppose such resolutions by UK 
companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange  
as a matter of course.
Institutional investors
During the year there were regular presentations to, and 
meetings with, institutional investors in the UK, South Africa, 
continental Europe, the US and Asia Pacific to communicate 
the strategy and performance of Anglo American. Executive 
directors as well as key executives, including business unit 
heads, host such presentations, which include seminars  
for investors and analysts and one-on-one meetings. 
Throughout the year, executive management also presents 
at industry conferences that are mainly organised by 
investment banks for their institutional investor base.  
During 2013, the chairman attended investor roadshows  
in Johannesburg and Cape Town. The senior independent 
director (SID), works closely with the chairman to maintain 
his understanding of the issues and concerns of major 
shareholders. The chairman, SID and other NEDs are also 
available to shareholders to discuss any matter they wish to 
raise. The Company’s website provides the latest news and 
historical financial information, details about forthcoming 
events for shareholders and analysts, and other information 
regarding Anglo American.
105 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Governance Investor relations activities timeline 2013
January 2013 08 January Call with Investors – Sir John Parker and Mark Cutifani regarding appointment
February 2013 15 February Anglo American full year 2012 results
19 – 21 February NY and Boston Roadshow – Cynthia Carroll and Paulo Castellari-Porchia
25 February London Roadshow – René Médori
25 – 26 February SA Roadshow – Peter Whitcutt
27 February – 01 March SA Roadshow – René Médori
March 2013 04 – 05 March London Roadshow – Peter Whitcutt
07 March Citi Global Resources Conference – Investor Relations
21 March London Roadshow – René Médori
April 2013 03 April Investor Day meeting – Investor Relations
04 – 05 April SA Roadshow – Sir John Parker
12 April JP Morgan Cazenove Nordic Mining and Steel day Conference – Investor Relations
19 April AGM
May 2013 01 May UBS London Mining trip – Investor Relations
14 – 16 May Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Mining Conference – Mark Cutifani
June 2013 05 June Investor group meeting – Investor Relations
11 June Analyst and Investor Summer drinks hosted by Board, GMC and Exco
18 June SRI Analyst presentation
19 June RBC Conference Boston – René Médori
20 – 21 June NY, New Jersey, Baltimore, Philadelphia Roadshow – René Médori
July 2013 26 July Interim results presentation
31 July – 01 August SA Roadshow – Mark Cutifani and René Médori
31 July Sell-Side dinner – Mark Cutifani and René Médori
August 2013
September 2013 03 – 04 September London Roadshow – Mark Cutifani and René Médori
05 September Edinburgh Roadshow – Mark Cutifani and René Médori
09 – 10 September London Roadshow – Mark Cutifani and René Médori
12 September Macquarie’s Iron Ore Corporate Day – Investor Relations
16 – 20 September Boston, New York, Baltimore Roadshows – Mark Cutifani and René Médori
October 2013 07 October Investor Group meeting – Mark Cutifani
08 October Investor Group meeting – Investor Relations
22 – 23 October SA Roadshow – Paul Galloway (Head of Investor Relations)
30 October London Roadshow – Paul Galloway
November 2013 05 November Deutsche Bank BRICS conference – Investor Relations
06 November Goldman Sachs Natural resources conference – Mark Cutifani
12 November London Roadshow – Paul Galloway
14 November Chicago Roadshow – Mark Cutifani
December 2013 12 December Analyst and Investor Strategy Day
17 December Edinburgh Roadshow – Paul Galloway
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 106
GOVERNANCE ENGAGEMENT Committee discussions in 2013 
At each meeting, the Committee reviewed and discussed a 
quarterly report covering the Group’s performance across a 
range of sustainability areas including: safety; occupational 
health and wellness; community health; climate change; 
energy and water usage; and social performance. Very 
sadly, 14 colleagues lost their lives in work-related incidents 
during the year. The Committee received a detailed account 
of each fatal incident from the relevant BU CEO, together 
with the related management response.
In February, the Committee:
 • received a presentation from the CEO of Copper on the 
sustainability strategy and performance of that business, 
followed by the standing risk and assurance item, which 
focused on resource nationalism. Further updates included 
employee and community health and environmental targets 
for the year. The Committee welcomed representatives  
of the International Women’ s Health Coalition for a 
discussion on the role of mining in supporting local wellness 
and healthcare programmes.
In April, the Committee:
 • was joined by the CEO of Platinum for a presentation on its 
sustainability strategy and performance. An overview of the 
Group Sustainability Risk Register was presented, followed 
by a discussion on water quality risk and the status of actions 
identified during the 2012 audits on water quality. The 
annual sustainable development regulatory review was 
presented by the legal department, followed by updates  
on responsible supply chain management and the Group’ s 
social performance.
In July, the Committee:
 • received an overview of the operational performance in 
relation to key sustainability risks and opportunities from the 
CEO of Metallurgical Coal. This was followed by a review on 
risks related to methane and explosive dust. The Committee 
was presented with a plan to achieve a step change 
throughout the business in sustainable development, as part 
of the CEO’ s ‘Driving Value’ programme. The meeting 
concluded with presentations from PwC on the results of 
their annual audit of the Group’ s sustainable development 
reporting and from the UK charity – Business in the 
Community – on corporate responsibility.
In October, the Committee:
 • received a presentation from De Beers on its sustainability 
performance, after which the meeting focused on technical 
risks and controls related to slope stability, tailings risk, 
underground ground stability and shaft integrity. This was 
followed by a comprehensive overview of sustainability 
communications and engagement, and a discussion on 
conflict management with peace-building NGO, 
International Alert.
“At Anglo American, sustainability is part of our 
everyday business. How we build relationships with 
people inside and outside the business, keep our 
workforce safe and healthy and take care of the 
environment is at the core of our values and delivers 
considerable benefits to the Company.”
Jack Thompson
Chairman, S&SD Committee
Composition
 • Jack Thompson – chairman 
 • Mark Cutifani
 • Tony O’Neill 
 • Ray O’Rourke
 • Sir John Parker
 • Mphu Ramatlapeng 
 • Jim Rutherford
In addition to the members, 
committee meetings are 
attended by business unit  
(BU) CEOs and Safety and 
Sustainable Development 
(S&SD) and corporate affairs 
functional specialists from 
across the Group, all of whom 
participate actively in the 
Committee’s discussions.
Jack Thompson 
Chairman, Safety and Sustainable 
Development Committee
SAFETY AND SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
Role and responsibilities
 • Reviewing the development of framework policies  
and guidelines for the management of sustainable 
development and socio-political risks, including safety, 
health and environment.
 • Reviewing the performance of the Company and the 
progressive implementation of its S&SD and corporate 
affairs policies.
 • Receiving reports covering matters relating to material 
sustainability risks and liabilities.
 • Monitoring key indicators and learning from incidents  
and, where appropriate, ensuring they are communicated 
throughout the Group.
 • Considering material, national and international,  
regulatory and technical developments in the field  
of S&SD management.
107 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Governance Sir John Parker  
Chairman, Nomination Committee
Composition
Compliant with the Code: 
 • Sir John Parker – chairman 
 • David Challen
 • Sir CK Chow
 • Phuthuma Nhleko
 • Ray O’Rourke
 • Anne Stevens
“The Nomination Committee has enhanced the  
current diversity of the Board by identifying and 
nominating suitably qualified candidates.”
Sir John Parker  
Chairman, Nomination Committee
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Role and responsibilities
 • Setting guidelines (with the approval of the Board) for  
the types of skills, experience and diversity being sought 
when making a search for new directors. With the assistance 
of external consultants, identifying and reviewing in detail 
each potential candidate available in the market and 
agreeing a ‘long list’ of candidates for each directorship. 
Following further discussion and research deciding upon  
a shortlist of candidates for interview. Interviewing of 
shortlisted candidates by the Committee members who 
then convene to discuss their impressions and conclusions, 
culminating in a recommendation to the Board
 • Making recommendations as to the composition of  
the Board and its committees and the balance between 
executive directors and non-executive directors (NEDs), 
with the aim of cultivating a board with the appropriate  
mix of skills, experience, independence and knowledge  
of the Company
 • Ensuring that the HR function of the Group regularly 
reviews and updates the succession plans of directors  
and senior managers for subsequent debate with the NEDs 
and chief executive.
Diversity policy
To increase diversity, in particular the representation of 
women and ethnicity on the Board. With the appointment  
of Judy Dlamini and the retirement of David Challen and  
Sir CK Chow, the percentage of women on the Board, will 
revert to 25% in April 2014.
Committee discussions in 2013
In February, the Committee:
 • discussed the appointment of Jack Thompson as chairman 
of the S&SD Committee
 • recommended the appointment of Byron Grote to the 
Board and the Audit Committee
 • discussed succession planning.
In April, the Committee:
 • discussed the search for more female NEDs and those  
with South African and/or sustainable and international 
development experience.
In June, the Committee:
 • agreed to recommend the appointment of  
Mphu Ramatlapeng to the Board
 • discussed changes to committee memberships
 • discussed candidates for appointments as NEDs  
with South African business experience.
In July, the Committee:
 • recommended Judy Dlamini’ s appointment as  
a NED
 • discussed the need for the Board to have investor/capital 
markets experience.
In October 2013, the Committee members  
recommended the appointment of Jim Rutherford  
as a NED.
During the year Spencer Stuart and Buchanan Harvey  
were used as external search consultants in the recruitment 
of non-executive directors.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 108
GOVERNANCE BOARD COMMITTEES AUDIT COMMITTEE
satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts meet this 
requirement as appropriate weight has been given to both 
positive and negative developments in the year.
In justifying this statement the Audit Committee has 
considered the robust process which operates in creating 
the report and accounts, including:
 • clear guidance and instruction is given to all contributors 
 • revisions to regulatory requirements, including the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, are monitored on an 
ongoing basis
 • early warning meetings are conducted between business 
unit management and the auditors in advance of the year 
end reporting process
 • input is provided by senior management and corporate 
functions
 • a thorough process of review, evaluation and verification  
of the inputs from business units is undertaken to ensure 
accuracy and consistency
 • further reviews are conducted by senior management
 • a review is conducted by external advisors appointed to 
advise management on best practice with regard to creation 
of the report and accounts
 • a meeting of the Audit Committee is held to review and 
consider the draft annual report and accounts in advance  
of the final sign-off
 • final sign-off is provided by the Board of directors.
Committee discussions in 2013
The Audit Committee held four meetings in 2013. 
In January, the Committee:
 • received an update on the status of the Minas-Rio project 
and discussed the impairment to be recommended to 
the Board, together with the proposed disclosure in the 
financial statements
 • received a report from management on the Minas-Rio 
project status, in addition to a report provided by consultants 
appointed by the Board to give an independent assessment 
of the project, including recommendations for expediting its 
completion. Based on these presentations that included 
robust challenges to management and detailed discussion of 
project risks, the Audit Committee agreed to recommend to 
the Board revised capital spend and the proposed impairment. 
The Committee sought input from the external auditor over 
the impairment number in reaching its conclusion.
In February, the Committee: 
 • reviewed in detail the significant accounting issues and the 
press release for the 2012 year end results. A number of 
proposed impairments were presented by management 
and questioned by the Committee prior to reaching 
agreement on the proposals. The Committee sought input 
from the external auditor in reaching its position
 • received a presentation from management on the internal 
control environment within the newly established 
commercial operating model. The Committee satisfied itself 
that the internal control environment for the new Singapore 
marketing and commercial function was designed 
appropriately and operating effectively
“The Audit Committee plays a critical role in ensuring 
high quality financial reporting and providing 
assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of the 
internal control environment.”
David Challen  
Chairman, Audit Committee
Composition
Compliant with the Code:
 • David Challen – chairman
 • Judy Dlamini
 • Byron Grote
 • Sir Philip Hampton
 • Phuthuma Nhleko
 • Anne Stevens
David Challen 
Chairman, Audit Committee
Role and responsibilities
 • Monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim financial 
statements, the accompanying reports to shareholders and 
corporate governance statements.
 • Making recommendations to the Board concerning the 
adoption of the annual and interim financial statements.
 • Overseeing the Group’ s relations with the external auditors 
including assessment of independence and effectiveness of 
the external auditor.
 • Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, 
retention and removal of the external auditors and tendering 
of external audit services.
 • Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’ s 
internal control and risk-management systems, including 
reviewing the process for identifying, assessing and 
reporting all key risks.
 • Approving the terms of reference and plans of the internal 
audit function.
 • Approving the internal audit plan and reviewing regular 
reports from the head of internal audit on effectiveness  
of the internal control system.
 • Receiving reports from management on the key risks  
of the Group and management of those risks. Further 
details of such risks are provided on pages 46–53.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable
A key requirement of our financial statements is for  
the report and accounts to be fair, balanced and 
understandable. The Audit Committee and the Board are 
109 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Governance In December, the Committee:
 • received a presentation from management on a proposed 
trading initiative for Thermal Coal. The Committee focused 
on the risks, governance and controls associated with the 
proposal and requested assurance that the controls 
operate as intended at a future meeting
 • received a presentation from management on the 
De Beers business, its risks, internal control matters and 
the enhancement to internal controls arising from its 
integration into Anglo American. The Committee 
questioned aspects of the business and its complexities to 
ensure a deeper understanding of the key issues that 
affect the risk profile and performance of the business
 • reviewed the detailed analysis presented by management 
on the significant accounting issues that would impact the 
2013 financial results. The Committee probed 
management on the assumptions made and conclusions 
reached, requesting input from the external auditor. 
Principal issues included the proposed impairments and 
provisions for the Anglo American Platinum portfolio 
review, Barro Alto, Foxleigh, Michiquillay, Platinum tax 
matters, accounting for the disposal of Amapá, and 
accounting for the exit from the Pebble project. The 
Committee also received an update on the Minas-Rio 
project, challenging the assumptions used in the latest 
valuation. The Audit Committee approved the 2013 audit 
fee, having reviewed the factors generating changes  
from 2012
 • discussed the UK Corporate Governance Code 
requirement to put the audit contract out to tender at least 
every 10 years, and the outcome of the UK Competition 
Commission final report and likely changes in law  
from October 2014. In the context of the current UK  
regulatory guidance, the Committee agreed to make a 
recommendation to the Board on the approach to audit 
tendering, as explained in more detail on page 1 12
 • approved the external audit plan for the 2013 audit and 
external auditor’s view on the key audit risks. The 
Committee discussed these risks and satisfied itself they 
were aligned with management’s view on audit risks
 • noted the status of recommendations provided by the 
external auditor in respect of control matters highlighted in 
the 2012 audit
 • approved the proposed 2014 internal audit plan after 
evaluation of the process by which the plan was generated 
and satisfying itself that the key areas of risk were covered 
by the plan
 • received an update on the Anglo American risk profile, 
focusing on changes in external conditions and progress 
with mitigation. The Committee also received the updated 
risk profiles for the business units and plans for risk 
assessment work in 2014
 • reviewed its Terms of Reference and concluded no 
changes were necessary, and met the internal and external 
auditors without the presence of management.
The Audit Committee report is set out on pages 1 1 1– 1 16.
 • reviewed the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource report, 
focusing on the significant changes from the previous year’ s 
report and understanding the third party audit coverage plan 
for the three year period between 2012 and 2015
 • noted the status of actions in connection with control 
improvements recommended by the external auditor from 
the 2011 audit
 • noted and approved the register of non-audit assignments 
conducted by the external auditors in 2012
 • reviewed a report on completion of the 2012 internal audit 
plan and discussed the significant findings, while noting the 
internal control environment was judged to be effective 
based on an overall assessment of risk and assurance work, 
and met with the internal and external auditors without the 
presence of management.
In July, the Committee:
 • received and discussed in detail an update of discussions 
with the South African tax authorities over matters relating 
to Anglo American Platinum. Following discussion the Audit 
Committee approved the level of provisioning and proposed 
disclosure, having sought assurance from the external 
auditor that both were appropriate
 • evaluated management’ s proposed accounting treatment 
and disclosure relating to various matters including: Amapá 
mine, following the tragic incident at the port of Santana and 
the proposed sale; creation of the Lafarge T armac joint 
venture; and Anglo American Platinum restructuring. The 
audit committee provided comments to management on 
the draft interim results press release
 • reviewed the assumptions underpinning the going concern 
assessment including forecast solvency and liquidity to 
enable it to approve the 2013 interim financial statements 
on a going concern basis
 • satisfied itself that the external auditor was in agreement 
with the accounting treatment and judgement proposed by 
management on the significant accounting items
 • considered and approved the register of non-audit 
assignments undertaken by the external auditor in the first 
half of 2013
 • received a report on the progress of the internal audit plan 
for 2013 and discussed in detail the more significant items 
identified for management attention and results of matters 
that the internal audit team had been asked to investigate, 
requesting an update at the next meeting
 • reviewed the risk profile of Anglo American and each of its 
business units based on a paper prepared by management. 
The Committee challenged the relative priority of the risks 
and evaluated the potential impact of the key risks, including 
potentially catastrophic risks, noting the controls in place to 
mitigate such risks and additional actions where required
 • The Committee reviewed the process and results emerging 
from the annual review performed to evaluate the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditor. The 
Committee agreed with the conclusion that the 2012 audit 
had been conducted effectively.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 110
GOVERNANCE BOARD COMMITTEES AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
ENSURING INDEPENDENCE OF THE  
EXTERNAL AUDITORS
Anglo American’s policy on auditors’ independence is 
consistent with the ethical standards published by the Audit 
Practices Board.
A key factor that may impair auditors’ independence is a lack 
of control over non-audit services provided by the external 
auditors. In essence, the external auditors’ independence is 
deemed to be impaired if the auditors provide a service that:
 • results in the auditors acting as a manager or employee  
of the Group
 • puts the auditors in the role of advocate for the Group
 • creates a mutuality of interest between the auditors and  
the Group.
Anglo American addresses this issue through three primary 
measures, namely:
 • disclosure of the extent and nature of non-audit services
 • the prohibition of selected services – this includes the 
undertaking of internal audit services
 • prior approval by the Audit Committee chairman of 
non-audit services where the cost of the proposed 
assignment is likely to exceed $50,000.
Anglo American’s policy on the provision of non-audit 
services is regularly reviewed. The definition of prohibited 
non-audit services corresponds with the European 
Commission’s recommendations on auditors’ 
independence and with the Ethical Standards issued  
by the Audit Practices Board in the UK.
Other safeguards 
 • The external auditors are required to adhere to a rotation 
policy based on best practice and professional standards in 
the United Kingdom. The standard period for rotation of the 
audit engagement partner is five years and, for any key audit 
partner, seven years. The audit engagement partner was 
appointed in 2010 in accordance with this requirement.
 • Any partner designated as a key audit partner of 
Anglo American shall not be employed by Anglo American 
in a key management position unless a period of at least  
two years has elapsed since the conclusion of the last 
relevant audit.
 • The external auditors are required to assess periodically, 
whether in their professional judgement, they are 
independent of the Group.
 • The Audit Committee ensures that the scope of the 
auditors’ work is sufficient and that the auditors are  
fairly remunerated.
 • The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for  
making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, 
re-appointment and removal of the external auditors
 • The Audit Committee has the authority to engage 
independent counsel and other advisers as they determine 
necessary in order to resolve issues on auditors’ 
independence.
 • An annual assessment is undertaken of the auditors’ 
effectiveness, independence and objectivity. The 
effectiveness assessment involves a review, with the senior 
finance managers in each of the business units and relevant 
corporate functions, of the audit process, including the 
planning, execution and reporting activities along with an 
assessment of the quality, quantity and leadership of each  
of the external audit teams involved in the audit. Any 
improvement opportunities identified are discussed with  
the external auditors. The independence and objectivity 
assessment is conducted by a review of compliance with  
the policies in place in the Group and within the external 
auditors to maintain independence and objectivity. The 
results of the review are shared with the Audit Committee. 
111 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Governance Conclusions of the Audit Committee for 2013
The Committee has satisfied itself that the UK professional 
and regulatory requirements for audit partner rotation and 
employment of former employees of the external auditors 
have been complied with.
The Committee considered information pertaining to the 
balance between fees for audit and non-audit work for the 
Group in 2013 and concluded that the nature and extent of 
the non-audit fees do not present a threat to the external 
auditors’ independence. Details of fees paid are provided  
on page 198.
Furthermore, after reviewing a report from the external 
auditors on all their relationships with Anglo American that 
might reasonably have a bearing on the external auditors’ 
independence and a review conducted by management,  
the Committee has concluded that the external auditors’ 
independence was not impaired.
The Committee held meetings with the external auditors 
without the presence of management on two occasions and 
the chairman of the Audit Committee held regular meetings 
with the audit engagement partner during the year. 
Consideration given to the appointment of the 
external auditors 
The appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Group’s external 
auditors (incumbents since the listing of Anglo American  
in 1999) is kept under annual review and, if satisfactory,  
the Committee will recommend the re-appointment of the 
audit firm.
The appointment of Deloitte LLP followed a detailed 
evaluation, at the time of the listing of predecessor audit  
firms. The Committee’s assessment of the external  
auditors’ performance and independence underpins its 
recommendation to the Board to propose to shareholders 
the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors until the 
conclusion of the AGM in 2014. Resolutions to authorise  
the Board to re-appoint and determine the remuneration  
of Deloitte LLP will be proposed at the AGM on 
24 April 2014.
Audit Tender
Anglo American recognises the current requirements  
of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) and 
transitional guidance in relation to audit tendering, and  
also notes the proposed European Union text on Audit 
Regulation and Directive and the UK Competition 
Commission response to conduct further consultation  
on auditor tendering. 
In light of these ongoing discussions, the significant 
organisational, systems and process change currently  
being undertaken in the business and the critical priorities 
for management in delivering a step change in operating 
performance, the Committee has agreed to recommend  
to the Board that we follow the current transitional guidance 
of the Code and do not tender during the current audit 
partner’s rotational period. The Audit Committee will 
reconsider the timing of audit tendering once the broader 
regulatory situation is confirmed.
Audit Committee actions in 2014
In addition to its role in monitoring the integrity of the 
financial statements, the Committee will seek assurance 
that the internal controls over trading activity are operating 
as intended, the internal control environment remains 
effective through the restructuring programme and that the 
risks associated with the Minas-Rio project as it progresses 
into its operational phase are understood and managed.
Byron Grote will be appointed as chairman of the Audit 
Committee to replace David Challen who retires as a 
non-executive director at the forthcoming AGM.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 112
GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The role of internal audit
The Group has an internal audit department that reports 
centrally with responsibility for reviewing and providing 
assurance on the adequacy of the internal control 
environment across all of Anglo American’s operations.
The head of internal audit is responsible for reporting  
and following up on the findings of this internal audit work 
with local management and the Audit Committee on a 
regular basis.
Internal audit teams operated in all the Group’s principal 
divisions in the period under review, reporting findings to 
local senior management. The internal audit function’s 
mandate and annual audit coverage plans have been 
approved by the Audit Committee.
The internal audit activities are performed by teams of 
appropriate, qualified and experienced employees, 
supplemented if necessary through the engagement of 
external practitioners upon specified and agreed terms.  
A summary of audit results and risk management 
information was presented to the Committee and Group 
senior management at regular intervals throughout the  
year. The Group’s head of internal audit reports to the  
Audit Committee on the internal audit function’s 
performance against the agreed internal audit plan.
During 2013, 780 audit projects were completed covering  
a variety of financial, operational, strategic and compliance-
related business processes across all business units and 
functions. In addition, the internal audit department 
responded to a number of management requests to 
investigate alleged breaches of our business principles. 
During 2013 the internal audit resources in De Beers  
were integrated into the Anglo American team and have 
adopted a consistent approach to internal audit work. 
Obtaining assurance on the internal  
control environment
The system of internal control, which is embedded in all  
key operations, provides reasonable rather than absolute 
assurance that the Group’s business objectives will be 
achieved within the risk tolerance levels defined by the 
Board. Regular management reporting, which provides  
a balanced assessment of key risks and controls, is an 
important component of board assurance. In addition, 
certain board committees focus on specific risks such as 
safety and capital investment and provide assurance to the 
Board. The chief financial officers of the Group’s business 
units provide confirmation, on a six-monthly basis, that 
financial and accounting control frameworks have operated 
satisfactorily. The Board also receives assurance from the 
Audit Committee, which derives its information, in part, from 
regular internal audit reports on risk and internal control 
throughout the Group, and external audit reporting.
The Group’s internal audit function has a formal 
collaboration process in place with the external auditors  
to ensure efficient coverage of internal controls. The  
Anglo American internal audit function is responsible for 
providing independent assurance to executive management 
and the Board on the effectiveness of the risk-management 
process throughout the Group.
Anglo American seeks to have a sound system of internal 
control, based on the Group’s policies and guidelines,  
in all material associates and joint ventures. In those 
companies that are independently managed, as well as  
joint ventures, the directors who are represented on these 
organisations’ boards seek assurance that significant risks 
are being managed.
Assurance regarding the accuracy and reliability of Mineral 
Resources and Ore Reserves disclosure is provided through 
a combination of internal technically proficient staff and 
independent third parties.
113 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Governance Whistle-blowing programme
The Group has had a whistle-blowing programme in place 
for a number of years in all its managed operations.
This facility operates in addition to a standardised Group-
wide stakeholder complaints and grievance procedure  
that is operated at all managed operations (see the 2013 
Sustainable Development Report for more details). The 
whistle-blowing programme, which is monitored by the 
Audit Committee, is designed to enable employees, 
customers, suppliers, managers or other stakeholders, on a 
confidential basis, to raise concerns in cases where conduct 
is deemed to be contrary to our values. It may include:
 • actions that may result in danger to the health and/or safety 
of people or damage to the environment
 • unethical practice in accounting, internal accounting 
controls, financial reporting and auditing matters
 • criminal offences, including money laundering, fraud, 
bribery and corruption
 • failure to comply with any legal obligation
 • miscarriage of justice
 • any conduct contrary to the ethical principles embraced in 
our business principles or any similar policy
 • any other legal or ethical concern
 • concealment of any of the above.
The programme makes available a selection of telephonic, 
email, web-based and surface mail communication 
channels to any person in the world who has information 
about unethical practice in Anglo American and its managed 
operations. The multilingual communication facilities are 
operated by independent service providers who remove  
all indications from information received as to the identity  
of the callers before submission to designated persons in 
the Group.
During 2013, 372 (2012: 332) reports were received via  
the global ‘Speak Up’ facility, including De Beers, covering  
a broad spectrum of concerns, including:
 • ethical
 • criminal
 • supplier relationships
 • health and safety
 • HR issues.
Reports received were kept strictly confidential and were 
referred to appropriate line managers within the Group for 
resolution. Where appropriate, action was taken to address 
the issues raised. The reports are analysed and monitored 
to ensure the process is effective.
During 2014 Anglo American expects to consolidate all 
whistle-blowing services with one service provider across  
all business units and functions. 
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 114
GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Risk management at Anglo American
The Board’s policy on risk management encompasses  
all significant business risks to the Group, including:
 • financial risk
 • operational, including safety, technical, fraud  
and corruption risk
 • compliance risk
that could undermine the achievement of business 
objectives. This system of risk management is designed  
so that the different businesses are able to tailor and adapt 
their risk-management processes to suit their specific 
circumstances. This flexible approach has the commitment 
of the Group’s senior management.
There is clear accountability for risk management, which  
is a key performance area of line managers through the 
Group. The requisite risk and control capability is assured 
through Board challenge and appropriate management 
selection and skills development. Managers are supported 
in giving effect to their risk responsibilities through policies 
and guidelines on risk and control management. Support 
through facilitated risk assessments is provided by a  
central team responsible for ensuring a robust process is 
implemented for risk-management. During 2013, more  
than 160 separate risk assessment workshops were 
conducted reviewing:
 • risk in business unit strategies
 • risks to achieving mine or business plans
 • risks in capital projects
 • risks to key change programmes.
The results of these risk assessments were reported to 
senior management and the Audit Committee. The process 
of risk management is designed to identify internal and 
external threats to the business and to assist management 
in prioritising their response to those risks. Continuous 
monitoring of risk and control processes, across headline 
risk areas and other business-specific risk areas, provides 
the basis for regular and exception reporting to business 
management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
Some of the headline risk areas, which have been 
elaborated upon in the financial review set out on pages 
46–53, are:
 • commodity price risk
 • political, legal and regulatory risk
 • currency risk
 • infrastructure and operational performance risks
 • safety and health risks. 
The risk assessment and reporting criteria are designed  
to provide the Board with a consistent, Group-wide 
perspective of the key risks. The reports to the Audit 
Committee, which are submitted at least every six months, 
include an assessment of the likelihood and impact of risks 
materialising, as well as risk-mitigation initiatives and their 
effectiveness. The Audit and Safety and Sustainable 
Development committees will also receive reports on  
those risks that are deemed to be potentially catastrophic 
and will review mitigation and status of controls in relation  
to those risks. Further discussion of such risks is provided 
on pages 46–53.
For more information on risk
See page 46–53
115 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Governance In conducting its annual review of the effectiveness of risk 
management, the Board considers the key findings from the 
ongoing monitoring and reporting processes, management 
assertions and independent assurance reports. The Board 
also takes account of material changes and trends in the risk 
profile and considers whether the control system, including 
reporting, adequately supports the Board in achieving its 
risk management objectives.
During the course of the year the Board considered the 
Group’s responsiveness to changes within its business 
environment. The Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing 
process, which has been operational during the year, and up 
to the date of approval of the Annual Report, for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the 
Group. This includes social, environmental and ethical risks 
as highlighted in the Disclosure Guidelines on Socially 
Responsible Investment issued by the Association of British 
Insurers. A detailed report on social, environmental and 
ethical issues is included in the Company’s Sustainable 
Development Report 2013.
Business integrity
During 2013 we continued to implement the necessary 
procedures to ensure that our Business Integrity policy 
operates effectively across the Group and minimises the  
risk of bribery as far as possible. We have now trained more 
than 7,000 managers through workshops in the business 
units and developed supplementary online training. During 
the year we developed enhanced guidelines regarding use 
of intermediaries and sponsorship. We updated our 
assessment of the risks of bribery and corruption in each  
of our businesses, taking into consideration external and 
internal factors and identified action plans for 
implementation based on those risk assessments. 
During 2014 we will continue to develop our procedures  
and obtain assurance that they are being implemented, 
as we expect, across the Group.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 116
GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Role and responsibilities
 • Establishing and developing the Group’ s  
general policy on executive and senior management 
remuneration.
 • Determining specific remuneration packages  
for the chairman and executive directors.
 • Designing the Company’ s share incentive schemes.
Committee discussions in 2013 
In February, the Committee:
 • reviewed executive director personal key performance 
indicators for 2013 and Company financial and safety 
targets to ensure alignment with Company strategy
 • discussed the outgoing CEO’ s and finance director’ s 
performance in 2012 to adjudicate on bonus outcomes
 • reviewed executive directors’ shareholdings in the Company 
prior to 2013 share awards being made
 • reviewed the forecast vesting of 2010 Bonus Share Plan 
(BSP) and Long T erm Incentive Plan (L TIP) awards
 • reviewed the 2012 Directors’ remuneration report ahead  
of publication.
In April, the Committee: 
 • confirmed the vesting of 2010 BSP and L TIP awards  
and the granting of 2013 BSP and L TIP awards
 • confirmed the one-off share award to the incoming CEO  
in respect of forgone incentives 
 • reviewed and approved the proposal for asset optimisation 
and supply chain targets for the 2013 L TIP award
 • discussed investor feedback on executive remuneration 
prior to the vote on the Directors’ remuneration report
 • discussed a number of proposals relating to a redesign  
of executive incentive arrangements.
In July, the Committee: 
 • discussed the final proposed design of executive  
incentive arrangements ahead of the shareholder 
consultation process
 • formally reviewed the incoming CEO’ s personal key 
performance indicators for 2013 
 • reviewed corporate governance issues in the previous 
quarter and major issues arising from the main AGM  
voting season
 • reviewed the Company chairman’ s fee.
In December, the Committee: 
 • reviewed directors’ salaries, taking into account the general 
salary review for the broader employee population
 • considered GMC remuneration elements and performance 
contracts for 2014
 • discussed the feedback received during the shareholder 
consultation over changes to the structure of executive pay
 • discussed a draft of the Directors’ remuneration report  
for 2013
 • reviewed and updated its terms of reference
 • determined the correct treatment of the L TIP TSR 
comparator group, following changes in the composition  
of the group during the year
 • reviewed corporate governance issues that had arisen since 
the previous meeting.
The remuneration report of the directors is set out on  
pages 118– 143.
“The role of the Remuneration Committee remains  
to ensure that the remuneration arrangements for 
executive directors offer every encouragement to 
enhance the Company’s performance and deliver  
our strategy in a responsible manner.”
Sir Philip Hampton  
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Composition
Compliant with the Code: 
 • Sir Philip Hampton – chairman 
 • David Challen 
 • Sir CK Chow 
 • Byron Grote
 • Ray O’Rourke
 • Jack Thompson
Sir Philip Hampton  
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
117 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Governance 1.  INTRODUCTORY LETTER
Dear Shareholder, 
It has been a year of change for Anglo American. We have  
a new chief executive and an updated strategy and have 
refined the remuneration arrangements for our executive 
directors as a consequence. In this respect we are setting 
out these policy decisions for you, our shareholders, who for 
the first time have a binding vote on them. 
The role of the Company’s Remuneration Committee 
remains to ensure that the remuneration arrangements  
for executive directors and other members of the Group 
Management Committee offer them every encouragement 
to enhance the Company’s performance and deliver our 
strategy in a responsible manner. We also need to ensure 
that the rewards received by the executive directors are 
proportionate to the levels of performance achieved and the 
returns received by you as shareholders. As a Committee, 
we therefore have to give full consideration to the 
Company’s strategy, its performance, your interests and the 
interests of the wider communities we affect.
Following the appointment of Mark Cutifani as chief 
executive, a comprehensive review of the Company’s 
strategy was conducted, as explained in the opening pages 
of this year’s annual report. The Committee has therefore 
reviewed the incentive arrangements for our most senior 
executives to ensure these remain aligned with the revised 
strategy. In addition, the Committee has been mindful of 
general investor calls for greater simplicity, higher 
shareholding requirements and longer time-horizons for 
incentive awards. The Committee therefore consulted  
with leading investors over a number of proposed changes 
to our remuneration arrangements. The Committee refined 
these in response to investor feedback and believes that the 
changes set out opposite are appropriate.
IN THIS SECTION
 11 8 Introductory letter
 120 Policy on director remuneration
 129  Director remuneration in 2013
 137 Outstanding share interests
 140 Remuneration in 2014
 140 Termination arrangements
 14 1 Remuneration Committee in 2013
 142 Five-year remuneration and returns
REMUNERATION REPORT
OF THE DIRECTORS
“ The role of the Company’s Remuneration 
Committee remains to ensure that the 
remuneration arrangements for executive 
directors offer every encouragement to enhance 
the Company’s performance and deliver our 
strategy in a responsible manner .”
Sir Philip Hampton 
Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
118
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Key changes
Bonus Share Plan (BSP)
 • Structure: the removal of the share matching aspect 
(Enhancement Shares) from the BSP arrangements  
and the introduction of a five year deferral period for a 
portion of bonus. 
 • Maximum award: an increase in the maximum potential 
award level for executive directors from 175% of salary to 
210% to maintain the expected value of their BSP 
arrangements following the removal of Enhancement 
Shares. 
 • Effective date: as there will be no award of Enhancement 
Awards in 2014 in respect of bonus deferred from 2013, 
the Committee determined that the 2013 BSP maximum 
for the current executive directors should be 210% of 
salary with payment partially deferred for five years. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
 • Performance measures: replacement of the Asset 
Optimisation and Supply Chain measure (50% of award) 
with an attributable Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) 
measure to reflect the Board’s commitment to a rigorous 
approach to capital allocation.
 • Performance measures: replacement of the bespoke 
mining peer group for the relative TSR sector measure 
(25% of award) with the HSBC Global Mining Index to 
overcome increasing difficulty in building a bespoke peer 
group; a decrease in the threshold vesting level for both 
the sector and FTSE 100 TSR measures from 30% to 
25%; and a change in the TSR performance period for 
each TSR measure to align with the Company’s financial 
year rather than the announcement of results. 
 • Holding period: introduction of an additional two  
year holding period for vested LTIP awards to  
increase alignment.
 • Effective date: to apply to 2014 LTIP awards onwards 
(except for the change in the TSR performance period 
which applies to 2013 LTIP awards onwards).
Clawback strengthening
 • The circumstances under which the Committee could,  
in future, reduce unvested awards, vested awards subject 
to a deferral or holding period or future awards have been 
strengthened to include misconduct and a material failing 
in risk management processes that has given, or could 
potentially give, rise to significant and lasting value 
destruction for the Company. 
Shareholding guideline increases
 • Increased from 200% of salary to 300% for the chief 
executive and from 150% of salary to 200% for the 
finance director, with effect from the 2014 AGM.
 
In addition, an updated set of BSP rules will be presented to 
shareholders for approval at the 2014 AGM, as the current 
rules expire on 21 April 2014. 
The fee levels for committee chairmen and the senior 
independent director increased with effect from 1 January 
2014, as explained in Section 5. 
As the chief executive reported in his introduction to this 
year’s Annual Report, although 2013 was another year of 
difficult macro-economic conditions and challenges, the 
Company has put in place steps to improve returns to 
shareholders by increasing its focus on capital deployment 
and operating performance, with some of the benefits 
coming through in the second half of the year. These are 
reflected in the remuneration received by executive 
directors in 2013. Specifically: 
 • underlying earnings were ahead of the targets set at the 
start of the year. However, the Committee, together  
with the Chief Executive, felt that, in light of the fact that 
meaningful impairments were being taken again this year, 
it would be appropriate to make a reduction in the bonuses 
of executives which would otherwise have been payable.  
A reduction of 30% in the quantum of these bonuses has 
thus been applied
 • the relatively low level of earnings over the last three years 
means that, of the Enhancement Shares initially awarded 
in 201 1, none vested at the end of 2013, as the required 
three year earnings growth was not achieved
 • the results of the Company’s longer-term efficiency 
programmes mean that around a quarter of the LTIP 
awards initially granted to executive directors in 201 1  
are likely to vest. The remainder will not vest as the full 
value of these savings has yet to be returned to you, as 
shareholders, in the form of superior TSR.
Finally, in last year’s report we set out the terms of 
Mark Cutifani’s remuneration package as chief executive, 
including compensation for the incentives he forfeited in 
leaving his former role. The value of, and final details about, 
this compensation are set out in Figure 12. Likewise in last 
year’s report we set out the broad terms of Cynthia Carroll’s 
termination arrangements. Further details are disclosed in 
Figure 12 and in Section 6. 
Sir Philip Hampton 
Remuneration Committee Chairman
119
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Figure 1: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors
Purpose Maximum opportunity Operation
Basic salary To recruit and 
retain high-calibre 
executives
Standard maximum increase 
5% of salary
(the Committee retains the discretion  
to exceed this in certain situations as 
explained under Operation)
Basic salary levels are reviewed annually by the Committee, 
taking account of Company performance, individual 
performance, levels of increase for the broader UK 
population and inflation 
Reference may also be made to median levels within 
relevant FTSE 50 and global extractive companies
The Committee also considers the impact of any basic 
salary increase on the total remuneration package
Annual increases are typically within the standard  
maximum given 
However, there may be occasions when the Committee 
needs to recognise, for example, development in role, 
change in responsibility and/or specific retention issues.  
In these circumstances, the Committee may offer a higher 
annual increase, the rationale for which will be explained  
to shareholders in the relevant remuneration report 
Maximum levels will be reviewed to take account of any 
significant rise in inflation levels 
Salary levels on recruitment and promotion to the Board are 
covered below 
Bonus Share 
Plan (BSP)
To encourage and 
reward delivery of 
the Company’s 
strategic priorities
To help ensure, 
through the 
share-based 
elements, that  
any resulting 
performance is 
sustained over the 
longer-term in line 
with shareholder 
interests
Maximum (threshold) 
210% of salary (0% of salary)
Performance measures 
At least 50% – underlying earnings per 
share (EPS)
Up to 50% – individual objectives linked 
to the Company’s strategic priorities
A deduction to the above is applied if 
safety targets are not met 
Form and timing of payment 
40%: cash award at end of year 
40%: Bonus Shares vesting three years 
after end of bonus year
20%: Bonus Shares as above but 
subject to a further two year deferral 
period 
Each year executive directors participate in the BSP which 
rewards EPS and individual performance 
The EPS measure has been chosen as it is one of the 
Company’s key measures of performance. As EPS 
performance in our sector can be highly volatile owing to 
external factors, the individual objectives measure was 
chosen to provide a balance, reflecting management’s 
underlying activity towards delivering the company’s 
strategy regardless of volatility 
The EPS targets are set each year to ensure they are 
demanding yet realistic. They primarily reflect internal budgets 
and price expectations for the year. Consideration is also given 
to prior performance and external expectations. The individual 
objectives are based on the Company’s strategic priorities for 
the year
Dividends are payable on Bonus Shares during any  
deferral period
The Committee is able to reduce any unvested Bonus Share 
awards, vested awards subject to a deferral period or future 
awards in the event of a material misstatement in the 
Company’s results or, for 2014 awards onwards, misconduct 
or a material failing in risk management processes that has 
given, or is likely to give, rise to significant and lasting value 
destruction for the Company
2. POLICY ON DIRECTOR REMUNERATION
2.1 Remuneration policy
Figures 1 and 2 summarise key aspects of the Company’s 
remuneration policy for executive and non-executive 
directors. This policy and the policy on termination set out  
in Figure 4 take effect for the purposes of S226D of the 
Companies Act on approval by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 24 April 2014. The Company 
has been operating these policies since 1 January 2014 and 
intends that these policies should apply until the Company’s 
2017 Annual General Meeting, subject to any unforeseen 
developments. It is the Committee’s intention that 
commitments entered into before these policies take formal 
effect and which are inconsistent with them should be met, 
as explained further below.
Figure 1 reflects the changes outlined in Sir Philip 
Hampton’s introductory letter. 
120
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Figure 1: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors
Purpose Maximum opportunity Operation
Bonus Share 
Plan (BSP) 
continued
Discretions 
Given the volatility mentioned above, the Committee does 
not intend to make adjustments to BSP outcomes to reflect 
either positive or negative short-term fluctuations in EPS 
performance driven by external factors such as commodity 
prices. It reserves the discretion to make adjustments to 
outcomes in very exceptional circumstances whether 
related to internal or external factors (for example, on a 
sequestration of assets during the year). Shareholders  
will be given details of any adjustments in the following 
remuneration report
Under the BSP Rules, the Company also has the standard 
discretion to take appropriate action in the event of 
unforeseen events which affect the Bonus Shares (for 
example, on a variation in share capital) and to settle the 
Bonus Shares in cash (for example, on a termination) 
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 
(LTIP)
To encourage  
and reward 
disciplined capital 
allocation and the 
generation of 
long-term 
sustainable 
shareholder 
returns
Maximum award  
350% of salary
  Performance measures 
50%: Attributable Return on Capital 
Employed (ROCE)
50%: Total shareholder returns (TSR) 
relative to sector and leading UK 
comparator companies
Performance period 
Three years
Additional holding period 
Two years 
Vesting at threshold  
ROCE: 25% of award portion
TSR: 25% of award portion
The Committee makes an annual conditional award of 
shares to each executive director 
The ROCE measure has been selected to reflect the 
strategic focus on disciplined capital allocation and the  
TSR measures to reflect the extent to which value is being 
delivered to shareholders 
Each year, the Committee reviews the performance targets 
prior to grant to ensure they remain sufficiently stretching. 
The initial ROCE targets have been informed by the 
Company’s stated 2016 attributable ROCE aspiration and 
each year will be set with reference to current budgets. The 
relative TSR targets are set such that only a quarter of the 
award is payable for median performance whilst maximum 
vesting requires exceptional relative performance 
Dividend equivalents are paid on any shares that vest
The Committee is able to reduce any unvested awards, 
vested awards subject to a holding period or future grants 
in the event of a material misstatement in the Company’s 
results or, for 2014 awards onwards, misconduct or a 
material failing in risk management processes that has 
given, or is likely to give, rise to significant and lasting value 
destruction for the Company
Discretions 
As is the case for the BSP , the Committee does not intend  
to make adjustments to LTIP outcomes to reflect either 
positive or negative short-term fluctuations in performance 
driven by external factors such as commodity prices. It 
reserves the discretion to make adjustments to outcomes  
in very exceptional circumstances whether related to 
internal or external factors (for example, on a sequestration 
of assets). Shareholders will be given details of any 
adjustments in the following remuneration report
Under the LTIP Rules, the Company also has the standard 
discretion to take appropriate action in the event of 
unforeseen events during an award cycle (for example,  
on a variation in share capital) 
121
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Figure 1: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors
Purpose Maximum opportunity Operation
Outstanding 
BSP and LTIP 
awards
To allow vesting  
of awards made 
under a previously 
approved policy
2012 & 2013 BSP Enhancement  
Share awards
Maximum award:  
65.6% of salary 
Performance measure:  
Real EPS growth
Performance period:  
Three years
2012 & 2013 LTIP awards 
Maximum award and  
performance terms  
As for LTIP above, except subject  
to an Asset Optimisation Supply 
Chain (AOSC) measure instead  
of a ROCE measure 
It is the Committee’s intention that these outstanding awards 
should be paid out according to the terms on grant 
Further details are contained in the remuneration report for 
the year of grant and will be contained in the remuneration 
report for the final year of the performance period
Pension To offer market-
competitive levels 
of benefit
30% of basic salary Executive directors participate in defined contribution 
pension arrangements
Prior to 6 April 201 1, executive directors had the option of  
all or part of their employer-funded defined contribution 
arrangements to be paid into an unregistered retirement 
benefits scheme (an EFRBS). Since 6 April 201 1, executive 
directors have the option for contributions which cannot be 
paid to a UK registered pension scheme as a result of HMRC 
limits (either annual allowance or lifetime allowance) to be 
treated as if paid to an unregistered unfunded retirement 
benefit scheme (an UURBS)
The Committee is prepared to consider requests from 
executive directors for a pension allowance to be paid in 
place of defined contribution arrangements
Other benefits To provide 
market-
competitive 
benefits 
Ongoing benefit maximum 
10% of salary
Exceptional situations 
The Committee reserves the discretion 
to exceed the ongoing maximum level 
for certain situation-specific benefits, 
such as relocation. Full details of the 
exercise of any such discretion will be 
provided to shareholders in the 
following remuneration report
The Company provides the following ongoing benefits:
 • 28 days’ leave and encashment of any accumulated leave 
in excess of 20 days
 • car-related benefits
 • medical insurance
 • death and disability insurance
 • limited personal taxation and financial advice
 • club membership
 • other ancillary benefits, including attendance at  
relevant public events.
In addition, the Company pays additional benefits  
when specific business circumstances require it,  
including costs and allowances related to relocation  
and international assignments
UK-based executive directors, as UK employees, are eligible 
to participate in the Company’s Save As You Earn (SAYE) 
scheme and Share Incentive Plan (SIP). Under HMRC rules 
these plans do not have performance conditions
The Company reimburses all reasonable and necessary 
business expenses 
122
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Figure 1: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors
Purpose Maximum opportunity Operation
Recruitment  
and promotion 
arrangements
To secure the 
appointment and 
promotion of  
high-calibre 
executives 
Maximum annual award
(for ongoing arrangements)
BSP: 210% of salary
LTIP: 350% of salary
The ongoing remuneration arrangements for a newly 
recruited or promoted executive director will reflect the 
remuneration policy in place for executive directors at the 
time of the appointment. The ongoing components will 
therefore comprise basic salary, BSP awards, LTIP awards, 
benefits, pension and SAYE/SIP on the bases set out above 
The initial basic salary level for a newly recruited or 
promoted executive director will be set to reflect the 
individual’s experience, salary levels within the Company 
and market levels. Where base salary is set below the level 
that might be expected, given the executive’s relative 
inexperience, and the executive then develops successfully 
into the role, the Committee has the discretion to give a 
salary increase in the year(s) after appointment above the 
standard maximum level of 5% 
For external appointments, the Committee may also offer 
additional cash and/or share-based elements to replace any 
remuneration forfeited, when it considers these to be in the 
best interests of the Company and its shareholders. The 
terms of any share-based elements offered will reflect the 
nature, time horizons and performance requirements of 
remuneration forfeited and will have performance 
conditions attached. Shareholders will be informed of any 
such payments at the time of appointment. The Company 
has retained its Discretionary Option Plan to use in such 
circumstances, if appropriate. If necessary the Company 
can go outside of existing plans as currently permitted under 
the Listing Rules
It is the Committee’s intention that the restricted awards 
granted to Mark Cutifani on appointment will be released  
in accordance with the terms on grant. These awards were 
made under the approved policy at the time, as disclosed  
in the 2012 Report 
For internal appointments, any commitments made before 
appointment and not relating to appointment are allowed to 
pay out according to their terms 
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may 
agree that the Company will meet certain relocation 
expenses as appropriate
123
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Figure 2: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for non-executive directors
Purpose Maximum opportunity Operation
Chairman 
– Fees
To attract and retain a 
high-calibre chairman 
by offering a market-
competitive fee level
Maximum increase  
Equivalent to annual increase  
of 5% of fee level 
The Chairman is paid a single fee for all his responsibilities
The level of this fee is reviewed every two to three years by 
the Committee and chief executive, with reference to UK 
market levels (FTSE 30 companies), and a recommendation 
is then made to the Board (in the absence of the Chairman) 
Fees are paid in cash with the flexibility to forgo all or part of 
the net fees to acquire shares in the Company 
It is the Committee’s intention that the shares granted to the 
Chairman in 201 1, which he committed to match with his 
personal funds, will be released in accordance with the 
terms on grant
Chairman 
– Benefits
To provide market-
competitive benefits
Maximum benefits 
£30,000 
Reasonable use of a car and driver
Medical insurance
Reimbursement of reasonable and necessary expenses
Non-
executive 
directors 
– Fees
To attract and retain 
high-calibre non-
executive directors by 
offering market-
competitive fees
Maximum increase  
for each type of fee  
Equivalent to annual increase  
of 5% of fee level 
The non-executives are paid a basic fee. The chairmen of 
the main board committees and the senior independent 
director are paid an additional fee to reflect their extra 
responsibilities
These fee levels are reviewed every few years by the 
Chairman and executive directors, with reference to UK 
market levels, and a recommendation is then made to  
the Board
Fees are paid in cash with the flexibility to forgo all or part  
of the net fees to acquire shares in the Company
Reimbursement of reasonable and necessary expenses
Other fees/
payments
To have the flexibility to 
provide additional fees/
benefits if required
Maximum additional fee 
£30,000
The Company has the discretion to pay an additional fee,  
up to the equivalent of the committee chairmanship fee 
(currently £30,000), to a non-executive director should the 
Company require significant additional time commitment 
from the non-executive director in exceptional or 
unforeseen circumstances
The Company has no current intention to use this discretion
124
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Chief Executive
Above
Below
T arget
Above
Below
T arget
Figure 3: Executive director total remuneration at 
different levels of performance
0 10.0 8.0 6.0 4.0 2.0
LTIP
BSP (cash and deferred)
Basic salary, beneﬁts and pension Above
The Company’s three-year TSR would need to outperform sector peers 
by 6% pa and be ranked 20th or higher in the FTSE 100.
Target
The Company’s three-year TSR would need to outperform sector peers 
by 3.2% pa and be ranked 35th in the FTSE 100.
Below
Total pay for below threshold performance includes basic salary, 
beneﬁts and pension only.        
Performance Level Performance Level
Indicative total pay (£m)
£8.6 m
£6.2 m
£1.7 m
Finance Director
£5.1m
£3.7 m
£1.1m
2.2  Supplementary information
Shareholding targets
Within five years of appointment, executive directors are 
expected to hold Company shares with a value of three 
times basic salary for the chief executive and two times  
basic salary for other executive directors. The Committee 
takes into consideration achievement against these targets 
when making grants under the Company’s various 
long-term incentive plans.
External directorships
Executive directors are not permitted to hold external 
directorships or offices without the prior approval of the 
Board. If approved, they may each retain the fees payable 
from only one such appointment.
Executive director contractual commitments
The remuneration provisions within the service contracts  
for Mark Cutifani and René Médori are consistent with  
the policies outlined in Figure 1 and in Figure 4  
(termination provisions). 
Policy in rest of company
The remuneration arrangements for the executive  
directors outlined in Figure 1 are consistent with those  
for other executives serving on the Group Management 
Committee, although opportunity levels vary. The majority 
of our employees are located in South Africa and South 
America, and the remuneration arrangements of these 
employees are aligned to local market practices and levels. 
Past directors
In addition to retirement benefits, the Company continues  
to provide seven former executive directors with private 
medical insurance arrangements. The annual cost to the 
Company is minimal. The Committee continues to meet 
these longstanding commitments but no new commitments 
have been made recently or will be made in future.
(1) 
Estimates of £75,000 and £35,000 have been used for ongoing non-pension benefits for the chief executive and finance director respectively.
(2) 
Share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded from all figures.
(3) 
Participation in the SAYE and SIP has been excluded given the relative size of the opportunity levels.
(4) 
Total pay for above target performance comprises basic salary, benefits, pension, 100% of maximum bonus opportunity (60% of which is deferred into Bonus Shares) and 100% 
of maximum LTIP opportunity. For this level of pay, the Company’s attributable ROCE would need to be 16% and the Company’s three-year TSR would need to outperform sector 
peers by 6% pa and be ranked 20th or higher against the FTSE 100.
(5) 
Total pay for target performance comprises basic salary, benefits, pension, 65% of maximum bonus opportunity (60% of which is deferred into Bonus Shares) and 65% of 
maximum LTIP opportunity. For this level of pay, the Company’s attributable ROCE would need to be 14.1% and the Company’s three-year TSR would need to outperform sector 
peers by 3.2% pa and be ranked 35th against the FTSE 100.
(6) 
Total pay for below threshold performance comprises basic salary, benefits and pension only.
(7) 
Charts have not been included for the non-executive directors as their fees are fixed and do not vary with performance.
125
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 2.3 Indicative total remuneration levels
The Company’s policy for executive directors results  
in a significant portion of the remuneration received  
by executive directors being dependent on Company 
performance. Figure 3 illustrates how the total pay 
opportunities for the current chief executive and the finance 
director vary under three different performance scenarios: 
above, target and below. These charts are indicative as 
share price movement and dividend accrual have been 
excluded. All assumptions made are noted below the charts.
2.4 Policy on termination and change in control
2.4.1 Executive directors
Figure 4 sets out the Company’s policy on termination. This 
policy is consistent with provisions relating to termination of 
employment in the executive directors’ service agreements 
and with provisions in the incentive plan rules with one 
exception. René Médori’s service agreement contains a 
longstanding provision under which the Company may pay a 
lump sum in lieu of any notice period, comprising salary, 
bonus and pension contributions in respect of the unexpired 
notice period, with the bonus element calculated based on 
Figure 4: Principles of determining payments for loss of office
Notice periods Notice periods do not exceed 12 months
Upon appointment the Committee can agree an extended Company notice period for the first year following appointment
‘Good Leaver’ Voluntary Resignation ‘Bad Leaver’
Payments on 
departure of 
executive 
directors
Typical reasons include retirement, redundancy, death, 
ill-health, injury, disability or as defined by the Committee
Where departure is on mutually agreed terms, the 
Committee may treat the departing executive as a Good 
Leaver in terms of one or more elements of remuneration. 
The Committee uses this discretion judiciously and 
shareholders will be notified of any exercise as soon as 
reasonable 
Typically 
termination  
for cause
Salary and 
benefits for 
notice period
Salary and benefits continue to be paid to the date of 
termination of employment, including any notice period  
and/or garden leave period
The Company may terminate employment with immediate 
effect and, in lieu of the unexpired portion of any 12-month 
notice period, make a series of monthly payments based on 
salary and benefits (or make a lump sum payment based on 
salary only). Any monthly payments will be reduced to take 
account of any salary received from alternative employment
Salary and benefits continue to be  
paid to the date of termination of 
employment, including any notice 
period and/or garden leave period
The Company may terminate 
employment with immediate effect  
and, in lieu of the unexpired portion of 
any 12-month notice period, make a 
series of monthly payments based on 
salary and benefits (or make a lump 
sum payment based on salary only). 
Any monthly payments will be reduced 
to take account of any amounts 
received from alternative employment
Immediate 
termination with 
no notice period
Bonus accrued 
prior to 
termination
A time pro-rated bonus award may be made by the  
Company, with the Committee’s approval, and can be  
paid wholly in cash
No accrued bonus is payable No accrued 
bonus is payable
the average bonus percentage paid over the last three  
years and prorated based on the time employed during the 
bonus year. The Committee intends, if required, to meet this 
obligation but does not intend to include such a clause in  
any future service agreements.
Figure 5 sets out key provisions relating to change of control,  
where there is no termination. There are no provisions for 
enhanced payments in the event of a change of control of 
the Company. 
2.4.2 Non-executive directors
All non-executive directors have letters of appointment  
with the Company for an initial period of three years, subject 
to annual re-appointment at the AGM. The Chairman’s 
appointment may be terminated by the Company with six 
months’ notice. The appointment letters for the Chairman 
and non-executive directors provide that no compensation 
is payable on termination, other than any accrued fees  
and expenses.
126
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Figure 4: Principles of determining payments for loss of office
‘Good Leaver’ Voluntary Resignation ‘Bad Leaver’
Unvested Bonus 
Shares and 
Enhancement 
Shares
Normal circumstances
Bonus Shares are released in full on the normal  
release date (ie awards will not be released early) 
Enhancement Shares vest subject to the performance 
condition at the end of the normal performance period  
and any award is time pro-rated.
Exceptional circumstances  
(eg death or other compassionate grounds)
Bonus Shares are released in full, and eligible for  
immediate release.
Enhancement Shares vest subject to testing of the 
performance condition at the date of departure and  
any award is time pro-rated, except on death
Forfeit Forfeit
Vested Bonus 
Shares subject 
to holding period
Normal circumstances
Released in full to the employee at the end of the  
holding period.
Exceptional circumstances  
(eg death or other compassionate grounds)
Bonus Shares are released in full, and eligible for  
immediate release
If an employee resigns to join a 
competitor (as defined by the 
Committee) then even those vested 
Bonus Shares that remain subject only 
to the holding period will be forfeit
Outside of these circumstances, such 
awards are released to the employee  
at the end of the holding period
Forfeit
Unvested LTIP 
awards
Normal circumstances
LTIP awards will vest subject to the performance condition  
at the end of the normal performance period and, if 
applicable, released at the end of the holding period
All awards are time pro-rated
Exceptional circumstances  
(eg death or other compassionate grounds)
LTIP awards may be released on departure, subject to 
assessment of the performance conditions at that time.  
All awards are time prorated
Forfeit Forfeit
Vested LTIP 
awards subject 
to a holding 
period
Normal circumstances
Vested LTIP awards that are subject only to a holding  
period are released in full to the employee at the end  
of the holding period
Exceptional circumstances  
(eg death or other compassionate grounds)
Vested LTIP awards subject to a holding period may be 
released on departure
If an employee resigns to join a 
competitor (as defined by the 
Committee) then even those vested 
LTIP awards that remain subject only to 
the holding period will be forfeit
Outside of these circumstances, such 
awards are released to the employee  
at the end of the holding period
Forfeit
127
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 2.5 Development of director remuneration policy
In developing and reviewing the Company’s remuneration 
policy for executive directors and other senior executives, 
the Committee is receptive to the views of shareholders and 
sensitive to the relationship between the arrangements for 
executive directors and those for other employee groups. 
Specifically:
 • whenever any significant changes are made to 
remuneration, the Committee seeks feedback from 
investors. The Committee also listens to and takes into 
consideration investor views throughout the year. For 
example, the changes described in the Committee 
Chairman’s introductory letter reflect, in part, recent 
investor concerns and the Company consulted  
with its leading investors on these changes before 
finalising them 
 • the Committee considers the general basic salary  
increase for the broader UK employee population when 
determining the annual salary increases for the executive 
directors. The rate of basic salary increase for the chief 
executive and the finance director, at 0% of salary for 2013 
and 3% for 2014, has been lower than (in 2013) and the 
same as (in 2014) the general increase for the UK 
employee population 
Figure 5: Policy on change in control 
Incentive plan 
provisions relating 
to change of 
control (without 
termination)
Bonus Shares and Enhancement Shares 
The Bonus Shares awarded under the BSP will be released
The Enhancement Shares awarded under the BSP will only vest to the extent that the performance condition has been 
met at the time of the change of control
LTIP awards 
The number of shares that vest under the LTIP will be calculated by reference to the extent to which the applicable 
performance conditions have been met at the time of the change of control
Vested Bonus Shares and LTIP awards subject to holding period 
The Bonus Shares and LTIP awards will be released
Figure 4: Principles of determining payments for loss of office
‘Good Leaver’ Voluntary Resignation ‘Bad Leaver’
Unvested 
Restricted 
Shares
There is no standard policy in respect of the treatment of any 
restricted share awards to executive directors. Terms are set 
on a case by case basis
For the restricted shares currently held by the chief 
executive, if he leaves as a ‘Good Leaver’ before the 
designated release dates, any unvested shares would be 
released on the earlier of the remaining release dates or one 
year from the date of the chief executive ceasing to be the 
Company’s chief executive
Generally Forfeit Forfeit
Other Limited disbursements (for example, legal costs, relocation 
costs, untaken holiday)
None None
 • each year the Committee also reviews in detail how  
the arrangements for the executive directors compare  
to those for other members of the Group Management 
Committee to ensure an appropriate relationship and to 
support career development and succession.
Given the geographic spread of the Company’s workforce, 
the Committee does not consider that consulting with 
employees on the remuneration policy for directors is a 
viable use of resources. Many of the Company’s UK-based 
employees are shareholders, through the SAYE and SIP 
schemes, and they, like other shareholders, are able to 
express their views on director remuneration at each 
general meeting.
2.6 Payments under previous policies
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration 
payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding 
that they are not in line with the policy set out above, where the 
terms of the payment were agreed (i) before the policy or the 
relevant legislation came into effect or (ii) at a time when the 
relevant individual was not a director of the Company and,  
in the opinion of the committee, the payment was not in 
consideration for the individual becoming a director of the 
Company. For these purposes ‘payments’ includes the 
satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation 
to awards of shares, the terms of the payment which are 
agreed at the time the award is granted.
128
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Figure 7: BSP outcomes for 2013  
(cash bonus and Bonus Shares)
(all amounts in ’000)
MARK CUTIFANI
(2012: not applicable)
£1,218
RENÉ MÉDORI
(2012: £469)
£979
3.  DIRECTOR REMUNERATION IN 2013
The information set out in this section has been subject to 
external audit. 
3.1 Basic salary for 2013
Mark Cutifani was appointed chief executive with effect 
from 3 April 2013. His annual salary level on appointment 
was £1,200,000. Figure 6 sets out the amount actually 
received in 2013. 
René Médori received no salary increase in 2013.
Figure 6: Basic salaries for 2013 
(all amounts in ’000)
MARK CUTIFANI
(2012: not applicable)
£891
RENÉ MÉDORI
(2012: £765)
£765
3.2 Annual BSP outcomes for 2013
Figure 7 shows the BSP outcomes for 2013. Figures 8a and 
8b summarise the annual financial and personal strategic 
measures for the 2013 BSP for Mark Cutifani and René 
Médori, along with the performance targets, where relevant, 
the level of performance achieved and the resulting award 
levels. Key details of the performance delivered over 2013 
are set out under BSP Key Performance Aspects.
The EPS performance range for 2013 was relatively wide 
(threshold $1.25, target $1.58 and maximum $2.05). This 
range was informed by the Company’s commodity price 
forecasts at the start of the year. At the time, the Committee 
acknowledged that analysts’ EPS projections were towards 
the higher end of the range but these projections were 
lowered once analysts were in receipt of similar information 
as the Committee were when setting the targets. 
The individual objectives were set at the start of the year  
and reflect the Company’s strategic priorities for the year. 
Each category contained between one and five specific 
objectives. Some of these are reflected under BSP Key 
Performance Aspects. Given the non-financial nature of 
these, specific quantitative targets were not set but, at the 
end of the year, the Committee made a detailed assessment  
of performance against each leading to the evaluations 
shown in Figures 8a and 8b. The overall outcome for each 
executive director was then adjusted by the safety deductor 
(based on loss of life, Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate and  
a risk and change management rating). 
129
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Figure 8a: BSP performance assessment for 2013 – Chief Executive
Mark Cutifani
Corporate Financial (50% of award) Below
Threshold
$1.25 = 0%  
of award
Target  
$1.58 = 20%  
of award Above
Maximum
$2.05 = 50%  
of award
Earnings per Share   
Personal/Strategic (50% of award) Below Threshold Target Above Maximum
Strategy (25%)   
Stakeholder engagement (10%)
Business performance and project execution (15%)    
Overall personal performance    
Group safety performance (deductor) 
Overall performance – before discretionary reduction   
Overall performance – after discretionary reduction   
Resulting BSP award 
65.1% of maximum bonus award (137% of salary) (40% payable in cash, 60% as Bonus Shares)
BSP KEY PERFORMANCE ASPECTS
 • Strong year on year production performance across  
all businesses, except Sishen; notably Copper (+ 17%), 
Metallurgical Coal (+6%) and Diamonds (+ 12%).
 • Minas-Rio 84% complete, on track to ship first iron ore  
by end of 2014.
 • Real unit costs down across all businesses except 
Sishen, with increased production, cost savings at 
Metallurgical Coal and Platinum and decreasing 
commodity input costs, partially offset by labour and 
logistics costs increases, notably in South Africa.
 • Engagement with South African stakeholders and 
subsequent implementation of Platinum restructuring.
 • Review and update of capital allocation process,  
with consequent withdrawal from the Pebble project.
 • Significant progress made with regard to  
organisational restructure.
 • Formation of Commercial business, merger of Nickel, 
Niobium and Phosphates and creation of Base Metals 
structure; merger of Thermal and Metallurgical Coal  
into a single Coal business unit underway.
 • Continued progress achieved in the drive for safety 
improvement – reductions in lost-time and total  
injury rates.
130
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 BSP KEY PERFORMANCE ASPECTS
 • Strong year on year production performance across  
all businesses, except Sishen; notably Copper (+ 17%), 
Metallurgical Coal (+6%) and Diamonds (+ 12%).
 • Minas-Rio 84% complete, on track to ship first iron ore  
by end of 2014.
 • Real unit costs down across all businesses except 
Sishen, with increased production, cost savings at 
Metallurgical Coal and Platinum and decreasing 
commodity input costs, partially offset by labour and 
logistics costs increases, notably in South Africa.
 • Engagement with South African stakeholders and 
subsequent implementation of Platinum restructuring.
 • Strong progress made in the Supply Chain programme 
which drives sustained business improvement.
 • Review and update of capital allocation process,  
with consequent withdrawal from the Pebble project.
 • Significant decrease in Study Costs driven by lower 
feasibility study expenses.
 • Issuance of corporate bonds with a US$ equivalent value 
of $3.6 billion in the European and Australian markets 
increasing debt headroom and extending maturity.
 • Divestment of Amapá completed in November 2013.
 • Formation of Lafarge/Tarmac joint venture and 
successful completion of the De Beers integration.
 • Continued progress achieved in the drive for safety 
improvement – reductions in lost-time and total  
injury rates.
Figure 8b: BSP performance assessment for 2013 – Finance Director
René Médori
Corporate Financial (50% of award) Below
Threshold
$1.25 = 0%  
of award
Target  
$1.58 = 20%  
of award Above
Maximum
$2.05 = 50%  
of award
Earnings per Share   
Personal/Strategic (50% of award) Below Threshold Target Above Maximum
Strategy and Portfolio Restructuring (13%)   
Treasury (6%)    
Tax (8%)
Procurement (6%)    
Information Management (4%)   
Finance Function operational targets (4%)
Teamwork and project support (9%)
Overall personal performance
Group safety performance (deductor) 
Overall performance – before discretionary reduction   
Overall performance – after discretionary reduction   
Resulting BSP award  
60.9% of maximum bonus award (128% of salary) (40% payable in cash, 60% as Bonus Shares)
131
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 3.3 BSP Enhancement  
Share outcomes for 2013 
In 201 1, René Médori was awarded 17,737 Enhancement 
Shares under the BSP . Vesting was subject to the 
Company’s real EPS growth over the three-year period  
to 31 December 2013. The growth targets set on award 
were RPI + 9% for threshold performance (resulting in  
44% of the award vesting) and RPI + 15% for maximum 
performance (resulting in 100% of award vesting). 
Threshold performance was not achieved over the 
three-year period resulting in no vesting of the shares. 
Figure 9: Enhancement Share vesting  
outcomes for 2013
(all amounts in ’000)
RENÉ MÉDORI
(2012: £0)
£0
SECTOR INDEX COMPARISON  
(25% OF TOTAL AWARD)
 • The Sector Index measure compares the Company’s 
three-year TSR performance with the weighted  
median of six international mining companies. 
 • Vesting required the Company’s TSR performance  
to be at least equal to the weighted median. 
 • As at 31 December 2013, the Company’s TSR 
performance was below the weighted median; it is 
therefore not expected that any shares will vest for  
this part of the award.
FTSE 100 COMPARISON  
(25% OF TOTAL AWARD)
 • The FTSE 100 measure compares the Company’s 
three-year TSR performance with the constituents  
of the FTSE 100.
 • Vesting required the Company’s TSR performance  
to be at least equal to the median TSR of the FTSE 100. 
 • As at 31 December 2013, the Company’s TSR 
performance was ranked below the 50th percentile of 
the FTSE 100; it is therefore expected that no shares 
for this part of the award will vest.
AOSC (50% OF TOTAL AWARD)
 • The AOSC measure rewards the delivery of additional 
operating profit and capital expenditure savings 
delivered through the Company’s Asset Optimisation 
and Supply Chain programmes.
 • Minimum vesting required cumulative savings to 
31 December 2013 of just over $7.9bn and maximum 
vesting required cumulative savings of $9.66bn.
 • Actual performance was $8.9bn, leading to 56% 
vesting of this part of the award (28% of the  
overall award).
Figure 10: LTIP assessment for 2013
For more details on the measures
Go to section 4.2
3.4 Long-Term Incentive  
Plan outcomes for 2013
In 201 1, René Médori received an LTIP grant of 69,021 
conditional shares vesting subject to (a) the Company’s TSR 
performance relative to (i) a weighted group of international 
mining companies and (ii) FTSE 100 companies over the 
three-year period to announcement of the 2013 results, and 
(b) the level of savings delivered by the Asset Optimisation 
and Supply Chain programmes to 31 December 2013. 
Figure 10 sets out further details of the measures and the 
Company’s expected performance against each. Figure 1 1 
sets out the assumed outcome for René Médori, including 
accrued dividend equivalents. As the performance period 
for the TSR measures ends immediately after the date of  
this report on the announcement of the 2013 results, 
performance and vesting in respect of the TSR measures  
is based on the latest available information as at 
31 December 2013. 
132
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 SECTOR INDEX COMPARISON  
(25% OF TOTAL AWARD)
 • The Sector Index measure compares the Company’s 
three-year TSR performance with the weighted  
median of six international mining companies. 
 • Vesting required the Company’s TSR performance  
to be at least equal to the weighted median. 
 • As at 31 December 2013, the Company’s TSR 
performance was below the weighted median; it is 
therefore not expected that any shares will vest for  
this part of the award.
FTSE 100 COMPARISON  
(25% OF TOTAL AWARD)
 • The FTSE 100 measure compares the Company’s 
three-year TSR performance with the constituents  
of the FTSE 100.
 • Vesting required the Company’s TSR performance  
to be at least equal to the median TSR of the FTSE 100. 
 • As at 31 December 2013, the Company’s TSR 
performance was ranked below the 50th percentile of 
the FTSE 100; it is therefore expected that no shares 
for this part of the award will vest.
AOSC (50% OF TOTAL AWARD)
 • The AOSC measure rewards the delivery of additional 
operating profit and capital expenditure savings 
delivered through the Company’s Asset Optimisation 
and Supply Chain programmes.
 • Minimum vesting required cumulative savings to 
31 December 2013 of just over $7.9bn and maximum 
vesting required cumulative savings of $9.66bn.
 • Actual performance was $8.9bn, leading to 56% 
vesting of this part of the award (28% of the  
overall award).
Figure 10: LTIP assessment for 2013
3-year TSR performance 
against Sector Index   
% per annum
Vesting (% of total LTIP award) 
25%
7.5%
0%
Threshold: 0% pa Max: 5% pa
Vesting schedule and actual performance to 31 December 2013
Arrow represents expected vesting
3-year TSR ranking vs FTSE 100 index   
Vesting (% of total LTIP award) 
25%
7.5%
0%
Threshold: 50th
Arrow represents expected vesting
Max: 80th
Vesting schedule and actual performance to 31 December 2013
Anglo American’s AOSC efﬁciency
($ bn)   
Vesting (% of total LTIP award) 
50%
28%
0%
Min: $7.9 bn
Arrow represents actual vesting
Max: $9.66 bn $8.9 bn
Vesting schedule and actual performance
Figure 11: LTIP vesting outcomes for 2013
(all amounts in ‘000)
RENÉ MÉDORI
(2012: £510)
£301
LTIP KEY PERFORMANCE ASPECTS
 • During 2013, the Company undertook an extensive 
asset review process, focused on identifying potential 
operational improvements, which will, among other 
benefits, assist in delivering AOSC benefits across  
all businesses.
 • Specific AO highlights include improvements in 
Longwall cutting hours at Moranbah and Grasstree 
(Met Coal), increased average throughput at Los 
Bronces SAG Mill (Copper), increased life of furnace 
parts at Mogalakwena North (Platinum) and improved 
carat recovery at Snap Lake (De Beers).
 • Specific SC highlights include increased rail capacity 
and reduced rail rates in Kumba and Met Coal,  
more effective drill consumables at Kumba and 
improvements in supplier maintenance processes  
at Thermal Coal.
 • Improved relationships with suppliers have reduced 
both the lead time for major equipment delivery and  
the supply risk to our business.
 • Framework agreements are now in place with 44 of  
our key suppliers, representing a formal alignment in 
our commercial relationships.
 • Should the 201 1 LTIP awards vest at 28%, 19,325 
shares are receivable by René Médori. At a share price 
of £14.12 (the average for the last quarter of 2013), this 
results in a value of £272,869. Dividend equivalents 
over the vesting period will also be payable at vesting, 
estimated to be £28,218.
133
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Figure 12: Total remuneration outcomes for 2013
Total basic
salary
(1)
£’000
Benefits
in kind
(2)
£’000
Pension
(3)
£’000
Annual 
performance 
bonus – cash 
and Bonus
Shares
(4)
 
£’000
2011 
Enhancement
Share Award
(5)
£’000
2011  
LTIP
Award
(6)
£’000
Other
(7)
£’000
Total
2013
£’000
Total
2012 
£’000
Executive Directors Section 3.1 Section 3.2 Section 3.3 Section 3.4
Mark Cutifani 891 860 267 1,218 – – 2,069 5,305
René Médori 765 53 230 979 0 301 0 2,328
René Médori (2012) 765 50 230 469 0 510 0 2,024
Former Executive 
Directors
Cynthia Carroll
(8)
406 25 122 472 0 434 0 1,459
Cynthia Carroll (2012) 1,217 65 365 745 0 811 0 3,203
Total fees
£’000
Benefits
in kind
£’000
Other
£’000
Total
2013
 
£’000
Total
2012 
£’000
Non-Executive Directors
Sir John Parker
(9)(10)
675 2 – 677 1,241
David Challen 130 – – 130 130
Sir CK Chow 80 – – 80 80
Byron Grote 56 – – 56 –
Sir Philip Hampton 105 – – 105 105
Phuthuma Nhleko 80 – – 80 80
Ray O’Rourke
(10)
80 – – 80 80
Mphu Ramatlapeng 38 – – 38 –
Jim Rutherford 13 – – 13 –
Anne Stevens 80 – – 80 51
Jack Thompson 97 – – 97 80
Peter Woicke 32 – – 32 105
134
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 (1) 
In addition to the basic salaries above, René Médori and Cynthia Carroll each retained fees amounting to £66,000 and £37,000 respectively in respect of external 
directorships (see Section 2.2).
(2) 
Benefits for executive directors with a value over £5,000 are set out below. The executive directors also receive a limited amount of financial advice, club subscriptions, 
death and disability benefits and medical insurance and other ancillary benefits. In addition, in 2013, Mark Cutifani received benefits relating to his relocation from South 
Africa to London on appointment as chief executive. These included reimbursement of relocation agent costs, moving costs, temporary accommodation costs, indirect 
costs of purchasing a home in London and a relocation allowance. As Mark Cutifani will be liable for tax on these benefits, the Company, in line with normal practice, will 
reimburse Mark Cutifani for the tax paid except on the relocation allowance. The tax-related amounts involved will be disclosed in subsequent reports. 
Car-related 
benefits
Club 
membership
Untaken holiday 
reimbursement Relocation
Mark Cutifani 20,788 – – 835,931
René Médori 27,310 – 19,136 –
Cynthia Carroll 9,330 7,673 – –
(3) 
The pension contribution amounts should be read in conjunction with the following information:
(a) The amount stated for Mark Cutifani for 2013 includes a cash allowance of £202,000.
(b) The total amount of pension contributions treated as having been paid into the UURBS for 2013 was £218,000 for Cynthia Carroll (2012: £677,000) and £221,000 
for René Médori (2012: £190,000). This includes £96,000 (2012: £362,000) representing the contractual agreements made by Cynthia Carroll with the Company 
that supplementary contributions be treated as having been paid into the UURBS in return for a reduction in her future basic salary and the cash element payable 
under the BSP for performance in 2012 and 201 1.
(c) Contributions treated as being paid into the UURBS earn a return equivalent to the Company’s pre-tax sterling nominal cost of debt. The total return earned in 2013 
was £48,000 for Cynthia Carroll (2012: £32,000) and £45,000 for René Médori (2012: £33,000).
(d) As at 31 December 2013, the total balances due to the executive directors in relation to the UURBS were £644,000 for Cynthia Carroll (2012: £1,021,000) and 
£1,034,000 for René Médori (2012: £768,000). Retirement benefits can only be drawn from the UURBS if a member has attained age 55 and has left Group service.
Cynthia Carroll’s 2012 amounts have been restated due to her US tax status.
(4) 
60% of the amount shown for 2013 annual bonus will be paid in Bonus Shares with deferred receipt. For 40%, vesting will occur after a further three years, subject to 
continued employment; for 20%, there is a further two year holding period in addition to the three year vesting period. 
(5) 
The performance condition attached to the 201 1 Enhancement Share award was not met and no shares will vest.
(6) 
As vesting of the LTIP awards granted in 201 1 is due to take place after publication of this report, vesting levels are on an ‘expected’ basis and a share price of £14.12 has 
been used to calculate the values shown. The values shown include dividend equivalent amounts of £40,705 for Cynthia Carroll and £28,218 for René Médori. The LTIP 
amounts shown in last year’s report in respect of the LTIPs awarded in 2010 were also calculated on an ‘expected’ vesting levels basis with an assumed share price of 
£18.32. The actual vesting levels were as expected but the actual share price at vesting was £18.52 leading to the following increases in value: Cynthia Carroll – estimated 
value £802,000, actual value £81 1,000 (increase of £9,000); René Médori – estimated value £504,000, actual value £510,000 (increase of £6,000).
(7) 
The amount stated for Mark Cutifani relates to the value on grant of the restricted shares awarded to him as compensation for the incentives forfeited on leaving his 
previous employer AngloGold Ashanti. On 1 May 2013 132,208 restricted shares in the Company were awarded to him with a share price on grant of £15.65. Although the 
regulations require disclosure of the full value of grant in Figure 12, the shares will be released to him in the following tranches to reflect the vesting schedule of the 
foregone incentives: February 2014 – 51, 680 shares; May 2014 – 9,983 shares; February 2015 – 67,475 shares and February 2016 – 3, 070 shares. The Committee has 
the discretion to reduce the number of shares being released in the event of a material misstatement of results. The Committee determined that there should be no 
performance conditions attaching to these awards, other than service, as the compensation amount calculated in respect of the forfeited awards had already been 
discounted for performance. 
(8)  
Cynthia Carroll ceased to be chief executive on 3 April 2013, stepped down as a director on 19 April 2013 and ceased to be employed by the Company on 30 April 2013. 
The salary, benefits, pension, and bonus amounts shown for Cynthia Carroll relate to the period from 1 January 2013 to 30 April 2013. Amounts have been included for 
the period for 19 April to 30 April 2013, although Cynthia Carroll was not a director at the time, as the amounts earned related to her completing activities linked to her time 
as a director. 
 
Cynthia
 
Carroll’s maximum bonus opportunity for the period 1 January to 30 April 2013 was £710,000 (175% of her pro-rated salary), with 50% based on EPS 
performance and 50% on individual objectives subject to a deductor for safety performance. The EPS performance targets are detailed under Section 3.3.  
EPS performance was at maximum resulting in a provisional award of 50% of the total award. Cynthia Carroll’s personal objectives related to a smooth and effective 
handover, responsible stewardship of the business and specific operational matters. The Committee assessed her performance against these to be above target, 
resulting in a provisional award of 48% of the total award. A safety deductor of 3% was then applied to the combined EPS and personal outcomes, leading to a  
provisional total award of 95%. The reduction by the Committee resulted in a final amount of 66.5% of the total award being payable (£472,000). 
 
In
 
201 1 Cynthia Carroll was awarded 28,816 Enhancement Shares, none of which vested, as set out in Section 3.3.
 
In
 
201 1 Cynthia Carroll received an LTIP grant of 128,008 shares relating to performance primarily over the three-year period to 31 December 2013. Full details of the 
performance measures and targets attaching to the grant are set out in Section 3.4, along with details of performance delivered and vesting levels. Ms Carroll’s award was 
pro-rated to 99,561 shares as she did not serve the last eight months of the performance period. If the award vests at 28%, 27,877 shares are receivable by Ms Carroll.  
(9) 
Following his appointment as chairman of the Company on 1 August 2009, Sir John Parker was awarded 31,000 shares which were released in full on 2 August 2012, 
three years after appointment, with a share price of £19.00. The award was matched through share purchases by Sir John before the release date.
(10) 
Sir John Parker has waived his Nomination Committee Chairman fees. Ray O’Rourke has instructed the Company that his net fees be donated to charity.
(11)  
Other than in respect of Cynthia Carroll, no payment has been made to a past director of the Company. 
135
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Figure 14: Distribution statement for 2013
Distribution statement 2013 2012
(1)
Underlying Earnings  
(Total Group)
$m 2,673 2,860
% change (6.5)% (54)%
Dividends payable for year (Total) $m 1,084 1,083
% change 0.1% 20.6%
Payroll costs for all employees $m 5,255 5,374
% change (2.2)% 8.6%
Employee numbers £’000 98 105
% change (6.7)% 6%
(1) 
Figures for 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. Please see note 2 of the consolidated financial statements for details.
Figure 13: Change in chief executive’s remuneration compared to UK employees
Salary Benefits Bonus
Chief Executive £’000 891 860 1,218
% change – – –
London employees
(1)
 Average  
% change  
(per capita)
2.8 2.8 28.3
(1) 
Benefits for London employees comprise pension and car allowances (where applicable), these being the most material.
3.5 Change in the chief executive’s remuneration  
in 2013 relative to London employees 
Figure 13 sets out the chief executive’s base salary,  
benefits and BSP amounts for 2013. As the chief executive 
was appointed during the year, no year on year change can 
be reported. We show the average change in each element 
for London employees, the most relevant employee 
comparator group.
3.6 Distribution statement for 2013
Figure 14 sets out the total spend on employee reward  
over 2013, compared to profit generated by the Company 
and the dividends received by investors. 
136
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 4.  OUTSTANDING SHARE INTERESTS
The information in this section has been subject to  
external audit.
4.1 Conditional share awards granted in 2013
Figure 15 summarises the longer-term, conditional share 
awards granted to directors during 2013. Receipt of these 
awards is dependent on the Company’s performance over 
2013– 15, as detailed below. 
4.2 Further details of LTIP awards granted in 2013
4.2.1 TSR – Sector Index comparison
 • One quarter of the LTIP awards granted in 2013 vests 
according to the Company’s three-year TSR performance 
relative to a weighted basket of international mining 
companies (the Sector Index).
 • The constituent companies of the Sector Index for the 
2013 awards are shown in Figure 16.
 • The Committee may amend the list of comparator 
companies in the Sector Index, and relative weightings,  
if circumstances make this necessary (for example, as a 
result of takeovers or mergers of comparator companies 
or significant changes in the composition of the Group).
 • The threshold for vesting is the Company’s three-year TSR 
being equal to the weighted median TSR performance of 
the Sector Index. 
 • Maximum vesting occurs when the Company’s TSR 
outperforms the weighted median TSR of the Sector Index 
by 5% pa. 
 • Between threshold and maximum, vesting is based on a 
straight line.
Figure 16: 2013 TSR Sector Index
Mining
Comparator companies BHP Billiton plc
Rio Tinto plc 
Teck Resources Limited 
Vale 
Vedanta Resources plc 
Xstrata/GlencoreXstrata
(1)
(1) 
The Committee has determined that Xstrata’s performance will be measured to the date of merger and GlencoreXstrata’s performance from that date to the end of the 
performance period. It noted that there was no bid premium to be taken into account.
Figure 15: Summary of conditional share awards granted in 2013
Type of award
Performance 
measure Vesting schedule
Performance
period end Director Basis of award
Number of 
shares awarded
Face value 
at grant
(2)
BSP 
Enhancement 
Shares
(1)
EPS growth 44% for RPI+9%
100% for RPI+15%
31/12/2015 René Médori 75% of 2012 
Bonus Shares
8,808 £175,807
LTIP share 
awards
TSR vs.  
sector index 
(25%)
Section 4.2.1
30% for TSR  
equal to median  
100% for median  
+5% pa or above
31/12/2015 Mark Cutifani 350% of salary 244, 328 £4,199,998
TSR vs. 
FTSE 100 
index (25%)
Section 4.2.2
30% for TSR  
equal to median  
100% for 80th 
percentile or above
René Médori 300% of salary 117,218 £2,296,300
AOSC (50%)
Section 4.2.3
0% for $5.853bn
100% for $7.153bn
(1) 
The BSP Enhancement Shares were awarded in March 2013. The number of shares granted was 75% of the number of deferred Bonus Shares awarded to René Médori in respect of 2012 annual 
performance ( René Médori: 1 1,744 Bonus Shares). The value of the Bonus Share award was 50% of the total bonus earned for 2012.
(2) 
The face value of each award has been calculated using the share price at time of grant (£19.96 for the Enhancement Share awards and £19.59 for René Médori’s LTIP awards and £17.19 for Mark Cutifani’s 
LTIP awards). As receipt of these awards is conditional on performance, the actual value of these awards may be £0. Vesting outcomes will be disclosed in the 2015 report.
137
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 4.2.2 TSR – FTSE 100 comparison
 • One quarter of the LTIP awards granted in 2013 vests 
according to the Company’s three-year TSR performance 
compared with the TSR performance of the constituents 
of the FTSE 100 Index.
 • Threshold vesting occurs when the Company’s three-year 
TSR is equal to the median TSR of the FTSE 100 
constituents. 
 • Maximum vesting occurs when the Company’s TSR is 
equal to or exceeds the TSR of the FTSE 100 company 
whose TSR performance is ranked at the 80th percentile. 
 • Between target and maximum, vesting is based on a 
straight line basis.
 
The performance targets for both TSR measures were 
calculated so that there is approximately a 15% chance of 
achieving full vesting and a 25% chance of three-quarters 
vesting. These probabilities were assessed by PwC using 
a Monte Carlo model.
Total shareholder return for both the TSR measures is 
calculated based on average returns over the three months 
prior to the end of the financial year. It is assumed that all 
dividends are reinvested. 
4.2.3 Asset Optimisation and Supply Chain
 • Vesting of one half of LTIP awards granted in 2013 
depends on the performance of the Company’s  
strategic Asset Optimisation and Supply Chain  
(AOSC) programmes over the three-year period to 
31 December 2015. 
 • These programmes strive to unlock value from the 
Company’s assets in a sustainable way through  
structured Group-wide programmes aimed at reducing 
costs, increasing volumes and improving overall 
operational efficiencies.
 • The AOSC performance targets represent the operating 
profit improvements, capital expenditure savings and 
working capital savings that the programme is yielding, 
compared with the savings made if the programme had  
not been implemented. These savings are realised 
cumulatively over the three-year performance period.
 • For 201 1 LTIP awards onwards, the effect of changes in 
both commodity prices and exchange rates have been 
stripped out of the AOSC targets and results so that only 
directly attributable management actions are recognised.
4.3 Total interests in shares
Figure 17 summarises the total interests of the directors in 
shares of Anglo American plc as at 13 February 2014 (and at 
the end of the 2013 financial year). These include beneficial 
and conditional interests. As already disclosed, from the 
2014 AGM Mark Cutifani is required to hold interests in 
shares to a value of three times basic salary (built up over 
five years) and René Médori to a value of two times salary. 
The vesting schedule of Mark Cutifani’s one-off share award 
means that he is expected to have a net shareholding of 
beneficial shares equal to one-third times basic salary by 
mid-2014; this should rise to three-quarters’ times basic 
salary by the 2015 AGM. Incentives awarded under the 
Company’s share plans from 2013 will start to vest, subject 
to the satisfaction of performance conditions, from 2016 
onwards. The requirements for René Médori have been 
exceeded. 
138
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Figure 17: Shares in Anglo American plc
Beneficial
Conditional 
(with performance conditions)
Conditional 
(no performance conditions) Total
Directors
BSP 
Bonus Shares 
BSP  
Enhancement
Shares LTIP SAYE/SIP Other
Mark Cutifani
(1)
at 13 February 2014 – – – 244,328 – 132,208 376,536
(at 31 December 2013) – – – 244,328 – 132,208 376,536
René Médori
(2)
at 13 February 2014 117,547 57,445 43,083 271,287 2,186 – 491,548
(at 31 December 2013) 117,521 57,445 43,083 271,287 2,176 – 491,512
Sir John Parker
(3)
at 13 February 2014 50,303 – – – – 7,552 57,855
(at 31 December 2013) 50,303 – – – – 7,552 57,855
David Challen
at 13 February 2014 1,820 – – – – – 1,820
(at 31 December 2013) 1,820 – – – – – 1,820
Sir CK Chow
at 13 February 2014 5,500 – – – – – 5,500
(at 31 December 2013) 5,500 – – – – – 5,500
Byron Grote
(4) (5)
at 13 February 2014 10,000 – – – – – 10,000
(at 31 December 2013) 10,000 – – – – – 10,000
Sir Philip Hampton
at 13 February 2014 5,259 – – – – – 5,259
(at 31 December 2013) 4,709 – – – – – 4,709
Phuthuma Nhleko
at 13 February 2014 6,870 – – – – – 6,870
(at 31 December 2013) 5,771 – – – – – 5,771
Ray O’Rourke
(5)
at 13 February 2014 76,965 – – – – – 76,965
(at 31 December 2013) 76,965 – – – – – 76,965
Mphu Ramatlapeng
(4)
at 13 February 2014 357 – – – – – 357
(at 31 December 2013) 156 – – – – – 156
Jim Rutherford
(4)
at 13 February 2014 658 – – – – – 658
(at 31 December 2013) – – – – – – –
Anne Stevens
at 13 February 2014 2,122 – – – – – 2,122
(at 31 December 2013) 2,122 – – – – – 2,122
Jack Thompson
(5)
at 13 February 2014 11,450 – – – – – 11,450
(at 31 December 2013) 11,450 – – – – – 11,450
Former directors
(6)
Cynthia Carroll
(at 19 April 2013) 298,365 – 34,222 169,664 552 – 502,803
Peter Woicke
(5)
(at 19 April 2013) 21,760 – – – – – 21,760
(1) 
Mark Cutifani was appointed to the Board as chief executive with effect from 3 April 2013. ‘Other’ interests above comprise 132,208 shares in the Company which will vest, subject to Mr Cutifani’s continued 
appointment as chief executive, in four tranches, as follows: 51,680 shares in February 2014, 9,983 shares in May 2014, 67,475 shares in February 2015 and 3,070 shares in February 2016.
(2) 
René Médori’s beneficial interests in 1 16,215 shares held at the date of this report arise as a result of his wife’s interests in shares.
(3) 
As previously reported, Sir John Parker was awarded 7,552 shares in the Company on 28 February 201 1, which will be released in full on the third anniversary of the award date, subject to his continued 
chairmanship. The award has been matched by Sir John progressively over the three-year period.
(4) 
Byron Grote was appointed to the Board on 19 April 2013, Mphu Ramatlapeng on 8 July 2013 and Jim Rutherford on 4 November 2013.
(5) 
Included in the interests of Messrs Grote, O’Rourke, Thompson and Woicke are unsponsored ADRs representing 0.5 ordinary shares of $0.54945 each.
(6) 
Interests are shown as at date of resignation.
139
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 5. REMUNERATION IN 2014
The changes to the Company’s policy on executive director 
remuneration for 2014 are summarised in the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman’s introductory letter and are reflected 
in the policy statements in Figure 1. Figure 18 summarises 
how that policy will be implemented in 2014. The EPS 
performance range will be disclosed in the 2014 
remuneration report. 
In December 2013, the Board approved an increase in  
the fee levels for committee chairmen and the senior 
independent director with effect from 1 January 2014.  
The previous increase was in January 2012. Details of  
the new fee levels are set out in Figure 19. 
6.  TERMINATION ARRANGEMENTS
Figure 12 sets out the remuneration received by Cynthia 
Carroll for the first four months of 2013 when she was still an 
employee of the Company. For the remaining eight months 
of 2013, and for January 2014, she received monthly 
payments comprising basic salary and benefits, 
representing her outstanding notice period, in line with  
Figure 18: Summary of key remuneration aspects in 2014
Element
Performance measure 1, 
weighting and vesting 
schedule
Performance measure 2,  
weighting and vesting schedule Director Level
Base Salary – – Mark Cutifani £1,236,000 (3% increase)
René Médori £788,000 (3% increase)
BSP EPS (50%) Personal strategic measures (50%)
Personal and strategic objectives 
supporting the Company’s delivery on 
projects, business improvement, capital 
allocation, commercial activities, 
employee development and stakeholder 
engagement.
Mark Cutifani 210% of salary
René Médori 210% of salary
LTIP share  
awards
ROCE (50%)
25% for 12%
100% for 16%
TSR vs HSBC Mining Index (25%)
25% for TSR equal to index 
100% for index +6% pa or above
TSR vs FTSE 100 (25%)
25% for TSR equal to median 
100% for 80th percentile or above
Mark Cutifani 350% of salary
René Médori 300% of salary
Figure 19: Summary of key non-executive director remuneration in 2014
Element 2013 2014
Basic Fee £80,000 £80,000
Committee chairman fees:
Audit, Remuneration and S&SD Committees £25,000 £30,000
Nomination Committee
(1)
£12,500 £15,000
Additional fee for senior independent director £25,000 £30,000
(1) 
The current chairman of this committee waives this fee.
her contractual provisions (total: £1,207,373) and the 
continuation of non-cash benefits (total: £15,249). Cynthia 
Carroll also received £1 17,000 in respect of accrued but 
untaken holiday. In accordance with the rules of the plan, 
£643,000, representing a partial distribution of Cynthia 
Carroll’s UURBS account balance, was paid out to her in 
November 2013. The remaining balance, £654,000, is due 
to be paid out in April 2014. 
Figure 12 also sets out the value of the Enhancement 
Shares and LTIP award made in 201 1, which the Committee 
has determined will vest on the normal vesting dates in 
March 2014, pro-rated for the performance period served 
(28 months out of the 36 months) and to the extent the 
performance conditions have been satisfied.
With respect to the Enhancement Shares and LTIP award 
made in 2012, the Committee has likewise determined  
that these awards will vest on the normal vesting dates in 
March 2015, subject to performance and pro-rating. The 
provisional value of these awards on vesting will be 
disclosed in the 2014 remuneration report.
The Bonus Shares already held by Cynthia Carroll were 
released to her on termination.
140
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 7.  REMUNERATION COMMITTEE IN 2013
Membership
The Committee comprised the non-executive directors 
shown above during the year ended 31 December 2013.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS  
DURING 2013
Sir CK Chow Byron Grote (from 12 June 2013)
Peter Woicke (to 19 April 2013) Ray O’Rourke (from 12 June 2013)
Sir Philip Hampton David Challen
Jack Thompson
Figure 20: External advisers and fees
Advisers
Other services provided  
to the Company
Fees for Committee 
assistance
Pricewaterhouse 
Coopers  
LLP (PwC)
Appointed by the Company, with the agreement of the 
Committee, to support and advise on the review of the 
Company’s incentive arrangements, in addition to the 
provision of specialist valuation services and market 
remuneration data
Investment advisers, actuaries and 
auditors for various pension schemes; 
advisers on internal audit projects; 
taxation, payroll and executive 
compensation advice
£113,800
Linklaters LLP  
(Linklaters)
Appointed by the Company, with the agreement of the 
Committee, to provide legal advice on long-term incentives 
and directors’ service contracts
Legal advice on certain corporate 
matters
£13,500
Towers Watson 
(TW)
The Human Resources function engaged Towers Watson to 
assist with the preparation of the 2013 remuneration report 
and to provide briefing sessions to Committee members on 
the new reporting regulations
Human resources advisers on various 
reward and other matters 
£38,000
Deloitte LLP 
(Deloitte)
In their capacity as Group auditors, Deloitte undertake an 
audit of sections 3 and 4 of the remuneration report annually. 
However, they provide no advice to the Committee
n/a
Note: Certain overseas operations within the Group are also provided with audit related services from Deloitte’s and PwC’s worldwide member firms and non-audit related services from TW.
Remuneration report voting results
The Committee considered the results of the shareholders’ 
vote on the 2012 remuneration report. As mentioned earlier 
in this report, feedback from investors at the time of the 
2013 AGM, and more generally, helped shape the changes 
to the remuneration policy for 2014 onwards. 
141
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Figure 21: Response to 2013 AGM shareholder voting
Number of votes
Vote For Against Abstain Company response to issues raised
Advisory  
vote on 2012 
remuneration 
report
629,554,600 
(79%)
167,304,694
(21%)
74,048,974 In response to investor concerns relating to Mark Cutifani’s 
restricted share grant, the Company has changed its policy 
for newly hired executive directors so that performance 
conditions will attach to any share-based award made by 
the Company relating to remuneration forfeited on leaving 
the previous employer
In response to general investor calls for greater simplicity, 
better alignment and longer-time horizons of incentive 
plans, the Company has removed Enhancement Shares  
in the BSP , replaced AOSC with ROCE as an LTIP measure 
and introduced additional holding periods for both the BSP  
and LTIP
8. FIVE-YEAR REMUNERATION AND RETURNS
Figure 22a shows the Company’s TSR performance  
against the performance of the FTSE 100 Index from 
1 January 2009 to 31 December 2013. The FTSE 100 Index 
was chosen as being a broad equity market index which 
includes companies of a comparable size and complexity to 
Anglo American. 
TSR is calculated in US dollars, and assumes all dividends 
are reinvested. The TSR level shown as at 31 December 
each year is the average of the closing daily TSR levels for 
the five-day period up to and including that date.
Figure 22b shows the total remuneration earned by the 
incumbent chief executive over the same five-year period, 
along with the proportion of maximum opportunity earned 
in relation to each type of incentive. The total amounts are 
based on the same methodology as for Figure 12 (Total 
Remuneration Outcomes for 2013). 
For the period 2009– 10, the TSR performance of the 
Company, and the remuneration received by Cynthia Carroll 
as chief executive, reflects that this was a period of strong 
operational performance and high commodity prices.  
These led to a doubling of profits and almost a doubling  
of underlying EPS in 2010. Cynthia Carroll’s 201 1 
remuneration levels also reflect record profits and strong 
EPS performance for the year as well as the increase in 
value of the LTIP awards that vested at the end of 201 1 – 
when granted the Company’s share price was £12.61; the 
share price at vesting was £26.00. Incentive outcomes have 
been much lower in recent years reflecting, in part, the 
impact of the fall in commodity prices on our earnings and 
the returns being delivered to shareholders. 
Source: Datastream Return Index
100
110
120
140
180
200
220
240
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Value of a hypothetical $100 investment
Figure 22a: Five year TSR performance
142
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 APPROVAL
This directors’ remuneration report has been approved by 
the Board of directors of Anglo American plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board of directors.
Sir Philip Hampton 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
13 February 2014
Figure 22b: CEO remuneration
Financial year ending
31 December 
2009
31 December 
2010
31 December 
2011
31 December 
2012
31 December 
2013
Cynthia Carroll
Total Remuneration (single figure, £’000) 4,379 4,235 8,113 3,203 1,459
BSP (% of maximum) 99% 88% 94% 35% 67%
LTIP (% of maximum) 61% 50% 96% 50% 28%
BSP Enhancement Shares (% of maximum) 0% 0% 100% 0% 0%
Mark Cutifani
Total Remuneration (single figure, £’000) – – – – 5,305
BSP (% of maximum) – – – – 65%
143
Governance
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Board considers that the Annual Report, taken as  
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and that it 
provides all information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the Company’s strategy and performance.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES 
Anglo American is one of the world’s largest mining 
companies, is headquartered in the UK and listed on the 
London and Johannesburg stock exchanges. Our portfolio 
of mining businesses meets our customers’ changing needs 
and spans bulk commodities – iron ore and manganese, 
metallurgical coal and thermal coal; base metals and 
minerals – copper, nickel, niobium and phosphates; and 
precious metals and minerals – in which we are a global 
leader in both platinum and diamonds. At Anglo American, 
we are committed to working together with our stakeholders 
– our investors, our partners and our employees – to create 
sustainable value that makes a real difference, while 
upholding the highest standards of safety and responsibility 
across all our businesses and geographies. The Company’s 
mining operations, pipeline of growth projects and 
exploration activities span southern Africa, South America, 
Australia, North America, Asia and Europe.
More detailed information about the Group’s businesses, 
activities and financial performance is incorporated in this 
report by reference and can be found in the chairman’s and 
CEO’s statements on pages 2–3 and 8– 1 1 respectively. 
The Strategic report and Corporate governance statement 
are on pages 2–91 and 92– 150 respectively and are 
incorporated in this Directors’ report by reference. The 
Strategic report includes, inter alia, disclosures on 
greenhouse gas emissions, diversity and human rights. 
GOING CONCERN
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
position and borrowing facilities are set out in the Group 
performance section on pages 34–45. In addition, detail is 
given on the Group’s policy on managing credit and liquidity 
risk in the Risk section on pages 46–53, with details of our 
policy on capital risk management being set out in note  
25 to the financial statements. The Group’s net debt at  
31 December 2013 was $10.7 billion (2012: $8.5 billion), 
representing a gearing level of 22.2% (2012: 16.3%). Details 
of borrowings and facilities are set out in note 25 and net 
debt is set out in note 24.
The directors have considered the Group’s cash flow 
forecasts for the period to the end of March 2015. The 
Board is satisfied that the Group’s forecasts and projections, 
taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading 
performance, show that the Group will be able to operate 
within the level of its current facilities for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason the Group continues to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
DIVIDENDS
An interim dividend of 32 US cents per ordinary share  
was paid on 12 September 2013. The directors are 
recommending that a final dividend of 53 US cents per 
ordinary share be paid on 29 April 2014 to ordinary 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
21 March 2014, subject to shareholder approval at the  
AGM to be held on 24 April 2014. Due to a public holiday  
in South Africa, the effective record date to qualify for the 
dividend in South Africa is 20 March 2014. This would bring 
the total dividend in respect of 2013 to 85 US cents per  
ordinary share. In accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS), the final dividend will be 
accounted for in the financial statements for the year  
ended 31 December 2014.
SHARE CAPITAL
The Company’s issued share capital as at 31 December 
2013, together with details of share allotments and issue  
of treasury shares during the year, is set out in note 33  
on pages 197– 198.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the  
AGM held on 19 April 2013, to purchase its own shares in  
the market up to a maximum of 14.99% of the issued share 
capital. No shares were purchased under this authority 
during 2013. This authority will expire at the 2014 AGM  
and, in accordance with usual practice, a resolution to  
renew it for another year will be proposed.
The directors have pleasure in submitting the 
statutory financial statements of the Group for 
the year ended 31 December 2013.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 144
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REPORT MATERIAL SHAREHOLDINGS
As at 31 December 2013, the Company was aware of the 
following interests in 3% or more of the Company’s ordinary 
share capital:
Company 
Number  
of shares
Percentage  
of voting rights
Public Investment  
Corporation (PIC) 
1 16,355,956 8.35
Coronation Asset Management 
(PTY) Ltd 75,411,187 5.41
Blackrock, Inc. 63,318,019 4.54
Genesis Asset Managers, LLP 55,426,734 3.98
Tarl Investment Holdings Limited
(1)
47,275,613 3.39
Epoch Two Investment  
Holdings Limited
(1)
42,166,686 3.02
(1) 
Epoch Two Investment Holdings Ltd (Epoch 2) and Tarl Investment Holdings Limited 
(Tarl) are two of the independent companies that have purchased shares as part of 
Anglo American’s share buy-back programme. Epoch 2 and Tarl have waived their 
right to vote all the shares they hold, or will hold, in Anglo American plc.
During the period between 31 December 2013 and 
13 February 2014, no changes to the substantial 
shareholdings were disclosed to the Company in 
accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.
DIRECTORS
Directors’ biographical details are given on pages 94–96. 
Details of directors’ interests in shares and share options of 
the Company can be found in the Directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 1 18– 143.
Mark Cutifani was appointed CEO and a director with effect 
from 3 April 2013. Byron Grote joined the Board on 19 April 
2013, Mphu Ramatlapeng was appointed on 8 July 2013 and 
Jim Rutherford joined on 4 November 2013. Judy Dlamini 
was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2014.
Cynthia Carroll resigned as CEO of the Company with effect 
from 3 April 2013, and as a director with effect from the 
closing of the AGM held on 19 April 2013. Peter Woicke  
also resigned from the Board on 19 April 2013. 
David Challen and Sir CK Chow are due to step down at  
the 2014 AGM, as mentioned on page 93. Byron Grote will 
be appointed as the chairman of the Audit Committee to 
replace David Challen. Byron’s financial experience is set  
out in his biography on page 95. Sir Philip Hampton will 
assume the role of senior independent director upon 
the retirement of David Challen.
In accordance with the Code, Anglo American will continue 
to propose the re-election of all directors on an annual basis.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
The Sustainable Development Report 2013 will be available 
in March 2014. This report focuses on the safety, sustainable 
development, health and environmental performance of the 
Group’s managed operations, its performance with regard 
to the Company’s Good Citizenship Business Principles,  
and the operational dimensions of its social programmes. 
PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS
Anglo American plc is a holding company and, as such,  
has no material trade creditors. Businesses across the 
Group are responsible for agreeing the terms under  
which transactions with their suppliers are conducted, 
reflecting local and industry norms and Group purchasing 
arrangements that may have been made with a supplier.  
The Group values its suppliers and recognises the benefits 
to be derived from maintaining good relationships with them. 
Anglo American acknowledges the importance of paying 
invoices, especially those of small businesses, promptly.
VALUE OF LAND
Land is mainly carried in the financial statements at cost.  
It is not practicable to estimate the market value of land  
and mineral rights, since these depend on product prices 
over the next 20 years or more, which will vary with  
market conditions.
POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
Post-balance sheet events are set out in note 37 to the 
financial statements on page 200.
AUDIT INFORMATION
The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there  
is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are 
unaware, and that all directors have taken all reasonable 
steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the auditors are aware  
of that information.
145 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Governance EMPLOYMENT AND OTHER POLICIES
The Group’s key operating businesses are empowered to 
manage within the context of the different legislative and 
social demands of the diverse countries in which those 
businesses operate, subject to the standards embodied in 
Anglo American’s Good Citizenship Business Principles. 
Within all the Group’s businesses, the safe and effective 
performance of employees and the maintenance of positive 
employee relations are of fundamental importance. 
Managers are charged with ensuring that the following key 
principles are upheld:
 • adherence to national legal standards on employment  
and workplace rights at all times
 • in addition, adherence to the International Labour 
Organisation’ s core labour rights, including: prohibition  
of child labour; prohibition of inhumane treatment of 
employees and any form of forced labour, physical 
punishment or other abuse; recognition of the right of our 
employees to freedom of association and the promotion  
of workplace equality; and the elimination of all forms of 
unfair discrimination
 • continual promotion of safe and healthy working practices
 • provision of opportunities for employees to enhance their 
work related skills and capabilities
 • adoption of fair and appropriate procedures for determining 
terms and conditions of employment.
It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full 
and fair consideration for all vacancies. Employment of 
disabled people is considered on merit and with regard  
only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the role. We 
endeavour to retain the employment of, and arrange suitable 
retraining for, any employees in the workforce who become 
disabled during their employment. Where possible we will 
adjust a person’s working environment to enable them to 
stay in our employment.
Further, the Group is committed to treating employees at  
all levels with respect and consideration, to investing in  
their development and to ensuring that their careers are  
not constrained by discrimination or arbitrary barriers.
The Good Citizenship Business Principles are 
supplemented by four Anglo American ‘Way’ documents, 
covering the safety, environmental, occupational health  
and social aspects of responsible operation and sustainable 
development. These set out specific standards for each of 
these subject areas, in line with international best practice. 
Copies of the Good Citizenship Business Principles and the 
Anglo American ‘Way’ documents may be accessed on the 
Company’s website.
In addition, all Anglo American suppliers must commit to 
adhering to the requirements set out in the ‘Sustainable 
Development in Supply Chain Policy’, which is available on 
the company’s website.
The Business Integrity Policy and its 1 1 Performance 
Standards support our anti-corruption commitment by 
making it clear that we will neither give, nor accept, bribes, 
nor permit others to do so in our name, either in our dealings 
with public officials or with our suppliers and customers. The 
Policy sets out the standards of conduct required at every 
level of Anglo American, including our subsidiaries, joint 
ventures and associates, in combating corrupt behaviour  
of all types. It also sets out the requirements of those with 
whom we do business and those who work on our behalf.
The Business Integrity Policy and Performance Standards 
have been translated into all the main languages that we  
use at our operations. Two dedicated business integrity 
managers, who operate within a broader risk management 
and business assurance team, oversee implementation of 
the policy by working with senior managers in our business 
units and corporate functions and assisting them to put in 
place adequate procedures for managing corruption risks 
(including extensive face-to-face training of employees in 
high-risk roles).
Our internal audit team provide assurance on anti-
corruption controls on an annual basis and all stakeholders 
are able to confidentially report breaches, or potential 
breaches, of the Business Integrity Policy through our 
independently-managed Speak Up facility.
The Group has a new social intranet called Eureka! which 
helps employees to connect, communicate and collaborate 
more effectively. In addition, the Company regularly 
publishes Optima (available on the Company’s website) and  
Our World, which contain items of news, current affairs and 
information relevant to Group employees.
CHARITABLE DONATIONS
During the year, Anglo American, its subsidiaries and  
the Anglo American Group Foundation made donations  
for charitable purposes or wider social investments  
amounting to $127.5 million (2.2% of profit before tax from 
subsidiaries and joint operations, before special items and 
remeasurements). Charitable donations of $0.8 million  
were made in the UK, of which the main categories were: 
education and training (47.7%) and health and welfare 
(41.5%). These figures were compiled with reference to  
the London Benchmarking Group model for defining and 
measuring social investment spending. A fuller analysis of 
the Group’s social investment activities can be found in the 
Sustainable Development Report 2013.
POLITICAL DONATIONS
No political donations were made during 2013. Anglo 
American has an established policy of not making donations 
to, or incurring expenses for the benefit of, any political party  
in any part of the world, including any political party or 
political organisation as defined in the Political Parties, 
Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 146
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REPORT ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The AGM will be held on 24 April 2014, when shareholders 
will have the opportunity to put questions to the Board, 
including the chairmen of the various committees. A 
separate booklet enclosed with this report contains the 
notice convening the meeting together with a description  
of the business to be conducted.
Facilities have been put in place to enable shareholders on 
the UK register to receive communications electronically 
rather than by mail and, for those unable to attend the meeting, 
to cast their votes by electronic means, including those 
shareholders whose shares are held in the CREST system.
In accordance with best practice, voting on each resolution 
to be proposed at the AGM will be conducted on a poll rather 
than by a show of hands. The results of the poll will be 
announced to the press, and on the Company’s website, 
after the meeting.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
Since the implementation of the electronic communications 
provisions in the Companies Act 2006, the Company has 
substantially reduced the cost of annual report production 
and distribution. Shareholders may elect to receive 
notification by email of the availability of the annual report  
on the Company’s website instead of receiving paper 
copies. For more information, please see the Company’s 
Notice of Annual General Meeting 2014.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION  
FOR SHAREHOLDERS
Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the 
Company’s current Articles and applicable English law 
concerning companies (the Companies Act 2006 (the 
Companies Act)) required as a result of the implementation 
of the Takeovers Directive in English law. This is a summary 
only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the 
Companies Act should be consulted if further information  
is required.
Dividends and distributions
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the 
Company may, by ordinary resolution, from time to time 
declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended 
by the Board. The Board may pay interim dividends 
whenever the financial position of the Company, in the 
opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The Board may withhold payment of all, or any part of  
any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the 
Company’s shares, from a person with a 0.25% interest or 
more (as defined in the Articles) if such a person has been 
served with a notice after failing to provide the Company 
with information concerning interests in those shares 
required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary and 
preference shares are set out in the Articles. The Articles 
may only be changed by a special resolution passed by  
the shareholders.
Voting
Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights  
or restrictions as to voting attached by or in accordance with 
the Articles to any class of shares, on a show of hands every 
member who is present in person at a general meeting shall 
have one vote and, on a poll, every member who is present  
in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of 
which he/she is the holder. It is, and has been for some 
years, the Company’s practice to hold a poll on every 
resolution at shareholder meetings.
Where shares are held by trustees/nominees in respect  
of the Group’s employee share plans and the voting rights 
attached to such shares are not directly exercisable by the 
employees, it is the Company’s practice that such rights are 
not exercised by the relevant trustee/nominee.
Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to appoint 
a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to 
exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and 
vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.  
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a 
general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy 
is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different 
share or shares held by that member. A member that is a 
corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its 
behalf at a general meeting or class meeting as a corporate 
representative. The debate around s323 of the Companies 
Act has been resolved so that where a shareholder appoints 
more than one corporate representative in respect of its 
shareholding, but in respect of different shares, those 
corporate representatives can act independently of each 
other, and validly vote in different ways.
Restrictions on voting
No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, 
be entitled in respect of any share held by him/her to vote 
either personally or by proxy at a shareholders’ meeting,  
or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in 
relation to shareholders’ meetings, if any call or other sum 
presently payable by him/her to the Company in respect of 
that share remains unpaid. In addition, no member shall be 
entitled to vote if he/she has been served with a notice after 
failing to provide the Company with information concerning 
interests in those shares required to be provided under the 
Companies Act.
147 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Governance Issue of shares
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act relating to 
authority and pre-emption rights and of any resolution of  
the Company in a UK general meeting, all unissued shares  
of the Company shall be at the disposal of the directors  
and they may allot (with or without conferring a right of 
renunciation), grant options over, or otherwise dispose  
of them to such persons at such times, and on such terms,  
as they think proper.
Shares in uncertificated form
Directors may determine that any class of shares may be 
held in uncertificated form and title to such shares may be 
transferred by means of a relevant system, or that shares  
of any class should cease to be so held and transferred. 
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the CREST 
regulations and every other statute, statutory instrument, 
regulation or order for the time being in force concerning 
companies and affecting the Company (together, the 
Statutes), the directors may determine that any class of 
shares held on the branch register of members of the 
Company resident in South Africa, or any other overseas 
branch register of the members of the Company, may be 
held in uncertificated form in accordance with any system 
outside the UK that enables title to such shares to be 
evidenced and transferred without a written instrument and 
which is a relevant system. The provisions of the Articles 
shall not apply to shares of any class that are in uncertificated 
form to the extent that the Articles are inconsistent with the 
holding of shares of that class in uncertificated form, the 
transfer of title to shares of that class by means of a relevant 
system or any provision of the CREST regulations.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights
Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company 
in respect of which the business being voted upon is being 
heard. Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in 
relation to corporate members, by corporate representative. 
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy 
forms of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed 
for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Variation of rights
Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to 
any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of 
the holders of not less than three quarters in nominal value 
of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an 
extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general 
meeting of the holders of those shares. At every such 
separate general meeting the quorum shall be two persons 
holding, or representing by proxy, at least one third in 
nominal value of the issued shares of the class (calculated 
excluding any shares held as treasury shares). The rights 
conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless 
otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those 
shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of 
further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Transfer of shares
All transfers of shares that are in certificated form may be 
effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form 
or in any other form acceptable to the directors and may be 
under hand only. The instrument of transfer shall be signed 
by or on behalf of the transferor and (except in the case of 
fully paid shares) by or on behalf of the transferee. The 
transferor shall remain the holder of the shares concerned 
until the name of the transferee is entered in the register  
of shareholders. All transfers of shares that are in 
uncertificated form may be effected by means of the  
CREST system.
The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of 
transfer relating to shares in certificated form unless it:
(a) is in respect of only one class of share; and
(b) is lodged at the transfer office (duly stamped if required) 
accompanied by the relevant share certificate(s) and 
such other evidence as the directors may reasonably 
require to show the right of the transferor to make the 
transfer (and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by 
some other person on his/her behalf, the authority of 
that person so to do).
The directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, 
in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason 
therefore, refuse to register any transfer of shares (not being 
fully paid shares) provided that, where any such shares are 
admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, 
such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to 
prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place 
on an open and proper basis. The directors may also refuse 
to register an allotment or transfer of shares (whether fully 
paid or not) in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer, 
they shall send the refusal to the allottee or the transferee 
within two months after the date on which the letter of 
allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company.
A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of  
the Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the 
Company, for a transfer of shares to take place.
Directors
Directors shall not be less than 10 nor more than 18 in 
number. A director is not required to hold any shares of the 
Company by way of qualification. The Company may by 
ordinary resolution increase or reduce the maximum or 
minimum number of directors.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 148
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REPORT Powers of directors
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any 
directions given by special resolution, the business of the 
Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise 
all the powers of the Company.
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company  
to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its 
undertaking, property and uncalled capital and to issue 
debentures and other securities, whether outright or as 
collateral security, for any debt, liability or obligation of the 
Company or of any third party.
The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends 
but no dividend shall be payable in excess of the amount 
recommended by the directors. Subject to the provisions  
of the Articles and to the rights attaching to any shares, any 
dividends or other monies payable on or in respect of a 
share may be paid in such currency as the directors may 
determine. The directors may deduct from any dividend 
payable to any member all sums of money (if any) presently 
payable by him/her to the Company on account of calls or 
otherwise in relation to shares of the Company. The 
directors may retain any dividends payable on shares on 
which the Company has a lien, and may apply the same in or 
towards satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements 
in respect of which the lien exists.
Appointment and replacement of directors
The directors may from time to time appoint one or  
more directors.
The Board may appoint any person to be a director (so long 
as the total number of directors does not exceed the limit 
prescribed in the Articles). Any such director shall hold office 
only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
The Articles provide that at each AGM all those directors 
who have been in office for three years or more since their 
election, or last re-election, shall retire from office. In 
addition, a director may at any AGM retire from office  
and stand for re-election. However, in accordance with the 
Code, all directors will be subject to annual re-election.
Significant agreements:  
Change of control
At 31 December 2013, Anglo American had committed 
bilateral and syndicated borrowing facilities totalling 
$12.3 billion with a number of relationship banks that contain 
change of control clauses. $6.0 billion of the Group’s bond 
issues also contain change of control provisions. In 
aggregate, this financing is considered significant to the 
Group and, in the event of a takeover (change of control) of 
the Company, these contracts may be cancelled, become 
immediately payable or be subject to acceleration. 
Purchases of own shares
At the AGM held on 19 April 2013, authority was given for 
the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 208.5 million 
Ordinary Shares of 54
86
⁄91 US cents each. The Company  
did not purchase any of its own shares during 2013.
Indemnities
To the extent permitted by law and the Articles, the 
Company has made qualifying third party indemnity 
provisions for the benefit of its directors during the year, 
which remain in force at the date of this report. Copies  
of these indemnities are open for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office.
By order of the Board
Nicholas Jordan
Company Secretary
13 February 2014
149 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Governance Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. The directors are 
required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union and 
Article 4 of the IAS regulation, and have elected to prepare 
the parent company financial statements in accordance with 
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 
(United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable 
law). The directors must not approve the accounts unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of  
the Company for that period. 
In preparing the parent company financial statements,  
the directors are required to:
 • select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently
 • make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent
 • state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards  
have been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements
 • prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, IAS 1  
requires that directors:
 • properly select and apply accounting policies
 • present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information
 • provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’ s financial position and 
financial performance
 • make an assessment of the Company’ s ability to continue  
as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions, disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’
RESPONSIBILITIES 
The directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 December 201 3
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
(a)  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and loss of Anglo American plc and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole 
(b)  the management report includes a fair review of  
the development and performance of the business 
and the position of Anglo American plc and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as 
a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face
(c)  the annual report and financial statements, taken as  
a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and 
provide the information necessary for shareholders  
to assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
By order of the Board
Mark Cutifani René Médori
Chief Executive Finance Director
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 150
GOVERNANCE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES Financial statements
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Anglo American plc 152
Principal statements
Consolidated income statement 154
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 154
Consolidated balance sheet 155
Consolidated cash flow statement 156
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 157
Notes to the financial statements
1 Critical accounting judgements and key sources  
of estimation uncertainty
158
2 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures 159
Notes to the Consolidated income statement
3 Segmental information 161
4 Operating profit/(loss) from subsidiaries and joint operations 165
5 Operating profit and underlying earnings by segment 166
6 Special items and remeasurements 166
7 Net finance costs 169
8 Income tax expense 169
9 Earnings per share 171
10 Dividends 172
Notes to the Consolidated balance sheet
11 Intangible assets 172
12 Property, plant and equipment 173
13 Investments in associates and joint ventures 174
14 Financial asset investments 175
15 Inventories 175
16 Trade and other receivables 175
17 Trade and other payables 176
18 Financial instruments 176
19 Derivatives 178
20 Provisions for liabilities and charges 179
21 Deferred tax 180
22 Assets and liabilities held for sale 181
Cash flow statement, net debt and related notes
23 Capital expenditure 182
24 Net debt 182
25 Borrowings 184
26 Commitments 186
Employee remuneration
27 Employee numbers and costs 187
28 Retirement benefits 188
29 Share-based payments 191
Group structure and transactions
30 Business combinations and formation of joint ventures 193
31 Disposals of subsidiaries 195
32 Non-controlling interests 196
Additional disclosures
33 Called-up share capital and consolidated equity analysis 197
34 Auditor’s remuneration 198
35 Contingent liabilities 199
36 Related party transactions 200
37 Events occurring after end of year 200
38 Group companies 201
39 Financial risk management 203
40 Accounting policies 205
41 Accounting policy changes – restatements 210
Financial statements of the parent company 212
Summary by business operation 215
Key financial data 216
Reconciliation of reported earnings 217
Exchange rates and commodity prices 218
CONTENTS 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Anglo American plc financial reporting is of the highest quality; to continue  
to achieve this we have changed the format of our consolidated financial 
statements in order to make them clearer and easier to follow. 
We have changed the grouping and structure of the notes to the financial 
statements to help the user to understand our business better. Individual 
notes have been reorganised to highlight their most material items, certain 
items that are no longer considered to be material have been removed and 
accounting policy references have been included in the relevant note.
Unaudited financial information has been brought into the end of this 
section to make it easier to navigate to all financial information.
 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 151 152 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF ANGLO AMERICAN PLC
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the 
audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Impairments
Assessment of the recoverable amount of operating 
assets and development projects, including 
specifically the Minas-Rio project within the Iron Ore 
Brazil business unit and the Barro Alto project within 
the Nickel business unit.
We challenged management’s assessment as to whether indicators of impairment exist for specific 
assets, specifically, in relation to the Minas-Rio and Barro Alto projects. Where such indicators were 
identified we obtained copies of the valuation models used to determine the value in use or fair value 
less costs of disposal of the relevant asset. We challenged the assumptions made by management in 
relation to these models, including the discount rate used, the commodity price, capital expenditure 
and operating cost forecasts and the expected production profiles, by reference to third party 
documentation where available and consultation with operational management. We ensured that 
assumptions had been determined and applied on a consistent basis across the Group.
Platinum portfolio review
Assessment of the accounting impact arising from the 
finalisation of the portfolio review carried out by Anglo 
American Platinum and the related impairments and 
provisions recorded within the financial statements.
We assessed the status and recoverability of all Anglo American Platinum operating assets and 
projects in the context of the results of the portfolio review, and analysed management’s estimates 
for restructuring costs, giving particular consideration to the timing of key decisions made by 
management and hence the timing of the recognition of any provisions.
Amapá disposal
Assessment of the loss on disposal of Amapá, taking 
into account the fair value of consideration received 
and the insurance claims, including those relating to 
the port incident in March 2013, which were acquired 
by the Group as part of the sales agreement. 
We audited the disposal calculations in respect of the sale to Zamin Ferrous Limited with a particular 
focus on challenging the fair value of the insurance claim asset acquired (through consultation with 
the Group’s external legal advisors and review of the related agreements and expert insurance 
reports), as well as the valuation of the deferred consideration receivable which is linked to future 
iron ore prices. 
Taxation
Assessment of the Group’s taxation exposures in all 
jurisdictions, including transfer pricing arrangements 
and recognition of deferred taxation assets 
and liabilities. 
We reviewed all significant potential taxation exposures within the Group and, through discussions 
with the Group’s taxation department, the tax specialists within the audit team and review of relevant 
documentation, we assessed the appropriateness of the provisions raised. 
We considered, in the context of our tax specialists’ prior experience of similar issues, the Group’s 
transfer pricing arrangements and deferred taxation assets and liabilities recognised, to confirm that 
they were reasonable. 
Special items and remeasurements
Assessment of the appropriateness of items 
accounted for within ‘Special items and 
remeasurements’.
We considered each item accounted for within ‘Special items and remeasurements’ as defined in 
note 6 to the financial statements. We determined, through examination of the audit evidence 
obtained relating to the underlying transactions and discussion with management, whether such 
categorisation is appropriate and consistent with the Group’s stated policy and past practice for 
recognition of such items, and whether, taken as a whole, the income statement is fair and balanced 
in its presentation.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion 
on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not 
express an opinion on these individual matters.
The Audit Committee’s consideration of these risks is set out on page 115.
Opinion on financial statements of Anglo American plc
In our opinion:
 • the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s 
and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the 
Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 • the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union;
 • the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; 
and
 • the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income statement, the 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance 
sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity, the accounting policies, the related notes 1 to 41 and the 
balance sheet of the Company and related information. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of 
the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the 
European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law 
and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
Going concern
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement 
on page 150 that the Group is a going concern. We confirm that:
 • we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or conditions 
that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going 
concern which we believe would need to be disclosed in accordance with 
IFRS as adopted by the European Union; and
 • we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of 
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as 
a going concern.  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 153
Financial statements
Our application of materiality
We determined planning materiality for the Group to be $250 million, 
which is approximately 4.1% of pre-tax profit before special items and 
remeasurements, and below 1% of equity. Pre-tax profit is normalised for the 
materiality calculation to exclude impairments, remeasurements and other 
one off items that are audited separately and would, if included, significantly 
distort the materiality calculation year on year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee 
all audit differences in excess of $10 million, as well as differences below that 
threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit
All business units were subject to a full scope audit with the exception of 
Manganese. The principal operation within Manganese, part of the Iron Ore 
and Manganese segment, is Samancor Holdings Proprietary Limited 
(Samancor), an associate of the Group, which is subject to a separate audit 
engagement. We have received a reporting pack from the Samancor auditor 
and have performed specific procedures on the remaining balances 
within Manganese. 
The Senior Statutory Auditor visits the principal location of each significant 
business unit at least once every year and key operational assets on a 
rotating basis.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion:
 • the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
 • the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report 
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
 • we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our 
audit; 
 • adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 
visited by us; or
 • the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion 
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not been made or the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns. Under the Listing Rules we are required 
to review certain elements of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. We have 
nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with 
nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to 
report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required 
to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
 • materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; 
 • apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our 
knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 • otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether:
 • we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired 
during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the Annual 
Report is fair, balanced and understandable; and 
 • whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we 
communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have 
been disclosed. 
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or 
misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the 
directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to 
audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members 
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, 
we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and 
to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, 
or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Carl D. Hughes MA, FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
13 February 2014 154 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION PRINCIPAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 December 201 3
2013
2012
restated
(1)
US$ million Note
Before special 
items and 
remeasurements
Special items and 
remeasurements 
(note 6) Total
Before special 
items and 
remeasurements
Special items and 
remeasurements 
(note 6) Total
Group revenue 3 29,342 –  29,342 28,680 – 28,680
Operating costs (23,174) (3,761) (26,935) (23,187) (7,093) (30,280)
Operating profit/(loss) from subsidiaries and  
joint operations 3, 4 6,168 (3,761)  2,407 5,493 (7,093) (1,600)
Non-operating special items and remeasurements 6 – (469) (469) – 1,396 1,396
Share of net income from associates and  
joint ventures 3, 13 243 (75)  168 482 (61) 421
Profit from operations, associates and  
joint ventures 6,411 (4,305) 2,106 5,975 (5,758) 217
Investment income 271  –  271 418 – 418
Interest expense (584)  – (584) (630) – (630)
Other financing (losses)/gains 37 (130) (93) (87) (89) (176)
Net finance costs 7 (276) (130) (406) (299) (89) (388)
Profit/(loss) before tax 6,135 (4,435)  1,700 5,676 (5,847) (171)
Income tax expense 8a (1,861)  587 (1,274) (1,506) 1,113 (393)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year  4,274 (3,848)  426 4,170 (4,734) (564)
Attributable to:
Non-controlling interests 32 1,601 (214)  1,387 1,310 (404) 906
Equity shareholders of the Company 2,673 (3,634) (961) 2,860 (4,330) (1,470)
Earnings/(loss) per share (US$)
Basic 9 2.09 (2.84) (0.75) 2.28 (3.45) (1.17)
Diluted 9 2.08 (2.83) (0.75) 2.26 (3.43) (1.17)
(1)  
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 31 December 201 3
US$ million Note 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 426 (564)
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to the income statement
Net (loss)/gain on revaluation of available for sale investments (69) 173
Net loss on cash flow hedges (16) –
Net exchange difference on translation of foreign operations (including associates and joint ventures) (4,872) (750)
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ expense recognised directly in equity, net of tax – (17)
Tax on items recognised directly in equity that may be reclassified 8c 173 (96)
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement
Remeasurement of net retirement benefit obligation 97 190
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ income recognised directly in equity, net of tax – 14
Tax on items recognised directly in equity that will not be reclassified 8c (37) (25)
Net expense recognised directly in equity (4,724) (511)
Transferred to the income statement
Disposal of available for sale investments (89) (57)
Impairment of available for sale investments 14 84
Net exchange difference on disposal of foreign operations 73 24
Cash flow hedges – 4
Transferred to initial carrying amount of hedged items: cash flow hedges 4 5
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ net expense transferred from equity – (10)
Tax on items transferred from equity 8c 12 29
Total transferred from equity 14 79
Total comprehensive expense for the financial year (4,284) (996)
Attributable to:
Non-controlling interests 769 867
Equity shareholders of the Company (5,053) (1,863)
(1)  
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 155
Financial statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION PRINCIPAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
US$ million Note
31 December 
2013
31 December 
2012
restated
(1)
1 January 
2012
restated
(1)
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 11 4,083 4,569 2,320
Property, plant and equipment 12 41,505 44,731 40,082
Environmental rehabilitation trusts 20 348 392 360
Investments in associates and joint ventures 13 4,612 3,162 5,352
Financial asset investments 14 1,446 2,389 3,003
Trade and other receivables 16 797 560 434
Deferred tax assets 21 1,364 1,204 515
Derivative financial assets 19 604 747 668
Other non-current assets 247 235 138
Total non-current assets 55,006 57,989 52,872
Current assets
Inventories 15 4,789 5,002 3,514
Financial asset investments 14 19 102 –
Trade and other receivables 16 3,351 3,243 3,639
Current tax assets 226 470 207
Derivative financial assets 19 70 101 172
Cash and cash equivalents 24a 7,704 9,080 11,712
Total current assets 16,159 17,998 19,244
Assets classified as held for sale 22 – 3,150 –
Total assets 71,165 79,137 72,116
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 17 (4,369) (4,494) (5,047)
Short term borrowings 24a, 25 (2,108) (2,485) (902)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 20 (768) (560) (369)
Current tax liabilities (734) (819) (1,528)
Derivative financial liabilities 19 (372) (280) (162)
Total current liabilities (8,351) (8,638) (8,008)
Non-current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 17 (22) (18) –
Medium and long term borrowings 24a, 25 (15,740) (15,150) (11,855)
Retirement benefit obligations 28 (1,204) (1,409) (639)
Deferred tax liabilities 21 (4,657) (6,051) (5,693)
Derivative financial liabilities 19 (1,139) (801) (950)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 20 (2,688) (2,384) (1,829)
Other non-current liabilities – (29) (71)
Total non-current liabilities (25,450) (25,842) (21,037)
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 22 – (919) –
Total liabilities (33,801) (35,399) (29,045)
Net assets 37,364 43,738 43,071
EQUITY
Called-up share capital 33 772 772 738
Share premium account 4,358 4,357 2,714
Own shares (6,463) (6,659) (6,985)
Other reserves (5,372) (1,202) 283
Retained earnings 38,376 40,343 42,240
Equity attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 31,671 37,611 38,990
Non-controlling interests 32 5,693 6,127 4,081
Total equity 37,364 43,738 43,071
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
The financial statements of Anglo American plc, registered number 03564138, were approved by the Board of directors on 13 February 2014 and signed on its 
behalf by:
Mark Cutifani René Médori
Chief Executive Finance Director 156 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 December 201 3
US$ million Note 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Cash flows from operating activities
Total profit/(loss) before tax 1,700 (171)
Net finance costs 406 388
Share of net income from associates and joint ventures (168) (421)
Non-operating special items and remeasurements 6 469 (1,396)
Total operating profit/(loss) from subsidiaries and joint operations 4 2,407 (1,600)
Depreciation and amortisation 3 2,638 2,374
Share-based payment charges 201 233
Operating remeasurements 6 550 116
Non-cash element of operating special items 3,065 6,913
Decrease in provisions (56) (127)
Increase in inventories (562) (329)
Increase in operating receivables (541) (32)
Decrease in operating payables (18) (165)
Other adjustments 45 (13)
Cash flows from operations 7,729 7,370
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 13 246 294
Dividends from financial asset investments 18 54
Income tax paid (1,201) (1,799)
Net cash inflows from operating activities 6,792 5,919
Cash flows from investing activities
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment 23 (6,125) (5,959)
Cash flows from derivatives related to capital expenditure 23 (136) (71)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 140 66
Investments in associates and joint ventures 13 (221) (114)
Purchase of financial asset investments 14 – (16)
Net repayment of loans granted 301 81
Interest received and other investment income 193 278
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired – (4,816)
Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash and cash equivalents disposed 31 13 100
Repayment of capitalised loans by associates 13 108 36
Net proceeds from disposal of interests in available for sale investments 14 99 273
Other investing activities 3 (32)
Net cash used in investing activities (5,625) (10,174)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (907) (775)
Cash flows from derivatives related to financing activities 24b 181 149
Dividends paid to Company shareholders (1,078) (970)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (1,159) (1,267)
Net repayment of short term borrowings 24b (2,307) (747)
Net receipt of medium and long term borrowings 24b 3,279 5,633
Movements in non-controlling interests 71 1,220
Tax on sale of non-controlling interest in Anglo American Sur (395) (1,015)
Sale of shares under employee share schemes 14 24
Purchase of shares by subsidiaries for employee share schemes
(2)
(92) (253)
Other financing activities (9) (48)
Net cash (used in)/inflows from financing activities (2,402) 1,951
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (1,235) (2,304)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 24b 9,298 11,712
Cash movements in the year (1,235) (2,304)
Effects of changes in foreign exchange rates (361) (110)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 24b 7,702 9,298
(1)  
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Includes purchase of Kumba Iron Ore Limited and Anglo American Platinum Limited shares for their respective employee share schemes. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION PRINCIPAL STATEMENTS  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 157
Financial statements
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 31 December 201 3
US$ million
Total share
capital
(1)
Own
shares
(2)
Retained 
earnings
Share-based 
payment 
reserve
Cumulative 
translation 
adjustment 
reserve
Fair value and 
other reserves
(3) 
Total equity 
attributable  
to equity 
shareholders 
of the 
Company
Non-
controlling 
interests Total equity
At 1 January 2012 3,452 (6,985) 42,342 453 (1,930) 1,760 39,092 4,097 43,189
Adoption of new standards
(4)
– – (102) – – – (102) (16) (118)
At 1 January 2012 (restated) 3,452 (6,985) 42,240 453 (1,930) 1,760 38,990 4,081 43,071
Total comprehensive (expense)/
income – – (1,304) – (687) 128 (1,863) 867 (996)
Dividends payable to Company 
shareholders – – (970) – – – (970) – (970)
Dividends payable to  
non-controlling interests – – – – – – – (1,259) (1,259)
Conversion of convertible bond 1,677 – 185 – – (355) 1,507 – 1,507
Changes in ownership interest  
in subsidiaries – – (219) – – – (219) 970 751
Acquired through business 
combinations – – – – – – – 1,423 1,423
Issue of shares to  
non-controlling interests – – – – – – – 17 17
Equity settled share-based  
payment schemes – 326 (256) 96 – – 166 28 194
Other – – 667 – – (667) – – –
At 31 December 2012 (restated) 5,129 (6,659)  40,343  549 (2,617)  866  37,611  6,127  43,738 
Total comprehensive (expense)/
income –  – (901) – (4,023) (129) (5,053)  769 (4,284) 
Dividends payable to Company 
shareholders  –  – (1,078)  –  –  – (1,078)  – (1,078) 
Dividends payable to  
non-controlling interests –  –  –  –  –  –  – (1,273) (1,273) 
Changes in ownership interest  
in subsidiaries –  –  38  –  –  –  38  (14)  24 
Issue of shares to  
non-controlling interests –  –  –  –  –  –  –  47  47 
Equity settled share-based  
payment schemes –  196 (43) (1) –  – 152 37 189
Other 1 –  17  –  – (17) 1 – 1
At 31 December 2013 5,130 (6,463)  38,376  548 (6,640)  720  31,671  5,693  37,364 
(1) 
Includes share capital and share premium.
(2) 
Own shares comprise shares of Anglo American plc held by the Company (treasury shares), its subsidiaries and employee benefit trusts. 
(3) 
See note 33 for breakdown of fair value and other reserves.
(4) 
Certain balances and changes in equity related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
Dividends
Note 2013 2012
Proposed ordinary dividend per share (US cents) 10 53 53
Proposed ordinary dividend (US$ million) 10 678 676
Ordinary dividends payable during the year per share (US cents) 10 85 78
Ordinary dividends payable during the year (US$ million) 10 1,078 970
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION PRINCIPAL STATEMENTS 158 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
1. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES 
OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
In the course of preparing financial statements, management necessarily 
makes judgements and estimates that can have a significant impact on the 
financial statements. The most critical of these relate to estimation of Ore 
Reserves, assessment of fair value, impairment of assets, restoration, 
rehabilitation and environmental costs, deferred stripping, taxation, 
retirement benefits, contingent liabilities and the classification of joint 
arrangements. The use of inaccurate assumptions in assessments made for 
any of these estimates could result in a significant impact on financial results.
Ore Reserve estimates
When determining Ore Reserves, which may be used to calculate 
depreciation on the Group’s mining properties, assumptions that were valid  
at the time of estimation may change when new information becomes 
available. Any changes could affect prospective depreciation rates and asset 
carrying values.
The calculation of the unit of production rate of amortisation could be 
impacted to the extent that actual production in the future is different from 
current forecast production based on Proved and Probable Ore Reserves.
Factors which could impact useful economic lives of assets and Ore Reserve 
estimates include:
 • changes to Proved and Probable Ore Reserves
 • the grade of Ore Reserves varying significantly from time to time
 • differences between actual commodity prices and commodity price 
assumptions used in the estimation of Ore Reserves
 • renewal of mining licences
 • unforeseen operational issues at mine sites
 • adverse changes in capital, operating, mining, processing and reclamation 
costs, discount rates and foreign exchange rates used to determine 
Ore Reserves.
For further information refer to the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources 
section of the Annual Report.
Assessment of fair value 
The assessment of fair value is principally used in accounting for business 
combinations, impairment testing, and the valuation of certain financial assets 
and liabilities.
Fair value is determined based on observable market data (in the case of 
listed subsidiaries, market share price at 31 December of the respective 
entity) or discounted cash flow models (and other valuation techniques) using 
assumptions considered to be reasonable and consistent with those that 
would be applied by a market participant. The determination of assumptions 
used in assessing the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities is 
subjective and the use of different valuation assumptions could have 
a significant impact on financial results.
In particular, expected future cash flows, which are used in discounted cash 
flow models, are inherently uncertain and could materially change over time. 
They are significantly affected by a number of factors including Ore Reserves 
and Resources, together with economic factors such as commodity prices, 
discount rates, exchange rates, estimates of production costs and future 
capital expenditure. 
Cash flow projections
Cash flow projections are based on financial budgets and mine life plans or 
non-mine production plans, incorporating key assumptions as detailed below:
 • Reserves and resources 
Ore Reserves and, where considered appropriate, Mineral Resources are 
incorporated in projected cash flows, based on Ore Reserves and Mineral 
Resource statements and exploration and evaluation work undertaken by 
appropriately qualified persons. Mineral Resources are included where 
management has a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction, 
despite additional evaluation still being required prior to meeting the 
requirements of reserve classification.
 • Commodity and product prices 
Commodity and product prices are based on latest internal forecasts, 
benchmarked with external sources of information, to ensure they are within 
the range of available analyst forecasts. Where existing sales contracts are 
in place, the effects of such contracts are taken into account in determining 
future cash flows.
 • Operating costs, capital expenditure and other operating factors 
Operating costs and capital expenditure are based on financial budgets 
covering a three year period. Cash flow projections beyond three years are 
based on mine life plans or non-mine production plans, as applicable, and 
internal management forecasts. Cost assumptions incorporate 
management experience and expectations, as well as the nature and 
location of the operation and the risks associated therewith. Underlying 
input cost assumptions are consistent with related output price 
assumptions. Other operating factors, such as the timelines of granting 
licences and permits are based on management’s best estimate of the 
outcome of uncertain future events at the balance sheet date.
 • Discount rates 
Cash flow projections used in fair value less costs of disposal impairment 
models are discounted based on a real post-tax discount rate of 6.5% 
(2012: 6.5%). Adjustments to the rate are made for any risks that are not 
reflected in the underlying cash flows.
 • Foreign exchange rates 
Foreign exchange rates are based on latest internal forecasts for foreign 
exchange, benchmarked with external sources of information for relevant 
countries of operation. Foreign exchange rates are kept constant (on a real 
basis) from 2017 onwards.
Impairment of assets
In making assessments for impairment, management necessarily applies its 
judgement in allocating assets, including goodwill, that do not generate 
independent cash flows to appropriate cash generating units (CGU), and also 
in estimating the timing and value of underlying cash flows within the 
calculation of recoverable amount.
The calculation of recoverable amount is based either on fair value less costs 
of disposal or on value in use. The cash flow projections used in assessments 
of fair value less costs of disposal or value in use are subject to the areas of 
judgement outlined above.
Subsequent changes to the CGU allocation, to the timing of cash flows or to 
the assumptions used to determine the cash flows could impact the carrying 
value of the respective assets.
Restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs
Costs for restoration of site damage, rehabilitation and environmental costs 
are estimated using either the work of external consultants or internal 
experts. Management uses its judgement and experience to provide for and 
amortise these estimated costs over the life of the mine.
Deferred stripping
The Group defers stripping costs onto the balance sheet where they are 
considered to improve access to ore in future periods. Where the amount to 
be capitalised cannot be specifically identified it is determined based on the 
volume of waste extracted compared with expected volume for the identified 
component of the orebody. This determination is dependent on an individual 
mine’s pit design and Life of Mine Plan and therefore changes to the pit 
design or Life of Mine Plan will result in changes to these estimates. 
Identification of the components of a mine’s orebody is made by reference 
to the Life of Mine Plan. The assessment depends on a range of factors 
including each mine’s specific operational features and materiality.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 159
Financial statements
1. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES 
OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY continued
Taxation
The Group’s tax affairs are governed by complex domestic tax legislations 
interlaced with the override of international tax treaties between countries 
and the interpretation of both by tax authorities and courts. In addition, in 
arriving at the tax charge in the financial statements a degree of judgement 
is required by management about the future taxable profits and repatriation 
of retained earnings. These judgements in turn are influenced, inter alia, by 
factors such as estimates of future production, commodity lines, operating 
costs, future capital expenditure, and dividend policies. Given the many 
uncertainties that could arise from any or all of these factors and judgements, 
future adjustments to the tax charge already recorded could occur. Where 
management is aware of potential uncertainties around these factors and 
judgements, provision is made and reviewed on a regular basis. These are 
subject to risk and changes may be required to the amount provided in 
respect of historic or future tax costs.
Retirement benefits
The expected costs of providing pensions and post employment benefits 
under defined benefit arrangements relating to employee service during 
the period are determined based on financial and actuarial assumptions.
Assumptions in respect of the expected costs are set after consultation with 
qualified actuaries. While management believes the assumptions used are 
appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would impact the Group’s 
other comprehensive income.
Contingent liabilities
On an ongoing basis the Group is a party to various legal disputes, the 
outcomes of which cannot be assessed with a high degree of certainty.
A liability is recognised where, based on the Group’s legal views and advice, 
it is considered probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle 
a present obligation that can be measured reliably. Disclosure of other 
contingent liabilities is made in note 35 unless the possibility of a loss arising 
is considered remote.
Classification of joint arrangements
Joint arrangements are classified as joint operations or joint ventures 
according to the rights and obligations of the parties, as described in note 
40k. When a joint arrangement has been structured through a separate 
vehicle, consideration has been given to the legal form of the separate vehicle, 
the terms of the contractual arrangement and when relevant, other facts and 
circumstances. When the activities of an arrangement are primarily designed 
for the provision of output to the parties and the parties are substantially the 
only source of cash flows contributing to the continuity of the operations of 
the arrangement, this indicates that the parties to the arrangement have 
rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities. Certain joint 
arrangements that are structured through separate vehicles including 
Collahuasi, Debswana and Namdeb are accounted for as joint operations. 
These arrangements are primarily designed for the provision of output to  
the parties sharing joint control, indicating that the parties have rights to 
substantially all the economic benefits of the assets. The liabilities of the 
arrangements are in substance satisfied by cash flows received from the 
parties; this dependence indicates that the parties effectively have obligations 
for the liabilities. It is primarily these facts and circumstances that give rise to 
the classification as joint operations.
Changes in estimates
Due to the nature of Platinum in-process inventories being contained in weirs, 
pipes and other vessels, physical counts only take place annually, except in 
the Precious Metal Refinery where counts take place once every three years 
(the latest being in 2010, the planned stock count in 2013 having been 
deferred until 2014 due to disruption caused by industrial action). 
Consequently, the Platinum business runs a theoretical metal inventory 
system based on inputs, the results of previous physical counts and outputs. 
Once the results of the physical count are finalised, the variance between the 
theoretical count and actual count is investigated and recorded as a change 
in estimate. During the year ended 31 December 2013, the change in estimate 
following the annual physical count has had the effect of increasing the value 
of inventory by $38 million (2012: $172 million), resulting in the recognition of 
a post-tax gain of $28 million (2012: $124 million) in the period.
2. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND DISCLOSURES
The accounting policies applied are consistent with those adopted  
and disclosed in the Group financial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2012, except for changes arising from the adoption of new 
accounting pronouncements detailed below. 
The following accounting amendments, standard and interpretation became 
effective in the current reporting period:
 • Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Presentation 
of Items of Other Comprehensive Income
 • IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised 2011 
 • IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
 • IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine
In addition, the Group has early adopted the following standards and 
amendments, which are endorsed by the EU but not effective until 
1 January 2014:
 • IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 
 • IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 
 • IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 
 • IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 
 • IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
The Group has not early adopted any other amendment, standard or 
interpretation that has been issued but is not yet effective. It is expected that 
where applicable, these standards and amendments will be adopted on each 
respective effective date.
The nature and impact of each of the new amendments, standards or 
interpretations is described below:
Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: 
Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income
The amendments to IAS 1 introduced the grouping of items presented in 
other comprehensive income. Items that may be reclassified (or recycled) to 
the income statement at a future point in time are now presented separately 
from items that will not be reclassified. The amendment affected presentation 
only and had no impact on the Group’s financial position or performance.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised 2011 (IAS 19R)
IAS 19R includes a number of amendments to the accounting for defined 
benefit plans. The principal impact for the Group arises from the requirement 
to replace the interest cost on the defined benefit obligation and the expected 
return on plan assets, with a net interest cost/income based on the net 
defined benefit liability/asset, calculated using the discount rate used to 
measure the defined benefit obligation. This has increased the income 
statement charge as the discount rate now applied to the assets is lower than 
the expected return on plan assets. There is no effect on total comprehensive 
income as the increased charge in the income statement is offset by a credit 
in other comprehensive income.
The Group has applied the standard retrospectively in accordance with the 
transitional provisions, and the 2012 results have been restated accordingly. 
Further detail of the impact on the Group financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2012 is set out in note 41.
IAS 19R introduces more extensive disclosure requirements particularly 
relating to the characteristics, risks and amounts in the financial statements 
related to defined benefit plans. The additional disclosure requirements are 
reflected in note 28 to the Group financial statements.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
IFRS 13 establishes a single framework for measuring fair value when such 
measurements are required or permitted by other standards. The application 
of IFRS 13 has not materially affected the fair value measurements carried  
out by the Group. IFRS 13 also requires specific disclosures on fair values, 
some of which replace existing disclosure requirements in other standards, 
including IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures. The additional  
disclosure requirements are reflected within the relevant notes to the  
Group financial statements.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 160 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND DISCLOSURES 
continued
IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine 
IFRIC 20 specifies the accounting for costs associated with waste removal 
(stripping) during the production phase of a surface mine. When the benefit 
from the stripping activity is realised in the current period, the stripping costs 
are accounted for as the cost of inventory. When the benefit is the improved 
access to ore in future periods, the costs are recognised as a non-current 
asset, if certain criteria are met. After initial recognition, the stripping activity 
asset is depreciated on a systematic basis (unit of production method) over 
the expected useful life of the identified component of the orebody that 
becomes more accessible as a result of the stripping activity.
There are two key changes to the Group’s previous accounting policy as 
a result of the adoption of IFRIC 20. Firstly, the initial recognition of the 
stripping asset and subsequent depreciation is determined by reference to 
components of the orebody rather than by reference to the entire operation. 
Secondly, the subsequent remeasurement of the asset is recognised as 
depreciation on a unit of production basis, rather than as a charge to 
operating costs based on the expected strip ratio.
The Group has applied IFRIC 20 retrospectively in accordance with the 
transitional provisions, and the 2012 results have been restated accordingly. 
Upon adoption of IFRIC 20, the stripping assets on the balance sheet at 
1 January 2012 were assessed and it was determined that elements of the 
assets did not relate to identifiable components of the orebodies. These 
elements of the assets have been derecognised and recorded against 
opening retained earnings at 1 January 2012.
The adoption of IFRIC 20 has resulted in increased capitalisation of waste 
stripping costs and a reduction in cost of sales in 2012. Further detail of the 
impact on the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 
2012 is set out in note 41.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 27 Separate 
Financial Statements 
IFRS 10 replaces the parts of the previously existing IAS 27 that dealt with 
consolidated financial statements. The new standard changes the definition 
of control such that an investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has 
rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the 
ability to control those returns through its power over the investee. The 
adoption of IFRS 10 has had no impact on the consolidation of investments 
held by the Group.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IAS 28 Investments in Associates  
and Joint Ventures 
IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 Jointly-
controlled Entities – Non-monetary Contributions by Venturers. The new 
standard changes the classifications for joint arrangements and removes the 
option to account for joint ventures using proportionate consolidation. Under 
IFRS 11, investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint 
ventures or joint operations based on the rights and obligations of the parties 
to the arrangement. In a joint venture, the parties sharing joint control of the 
arrangement have rights to the net assets and must account for their interests 
in the arrangement using the equity method. In a joint operation, the parties 
have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities and must account for 
the assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses for which they have rights or 
obligations including their share of such items held or incurred jointly. 
The application of this standard has resulted in the newly formed joint 
venture, Lafarge Tarmac Holdings Limited, and the existing joint venture in 
Brazil, LLX Minas-Rio Logística Comercial Exportadora SA, being accounted 
for under the equity method. No other material joint arrangements within the 
Group were affected. 
The Group has applied IFRS 11 retrospectively in accordance with the 
transitional provisions, and the 2012 results have been restated accordingly. 
There is no impact on the net assets or underlying earnings of the Group. 
Further detail of the impact on the Group financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2012 is set out in note 41.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 
IFRS 12 sets out the requirements for disclosures relating to an entity’s 
interests in subsidiaries (including related non-controlling interests), joint 
arrangements, associates and structured entities. These disclosures are 
reflected within the relevant notes to the Group financial statements.
A number of other amendments to accounting standards issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board also apply for the first time in  
2013. These do not have a significant impact on the accounting policies, 
methods of computation or presentation applied by the Group.
New IFRS accounting standards, amendments and 
interpretations not yet adopted
The following new IFRS accounting standard not yet adopted is expected 
to have a significant impact on the Group:
 • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement. The first and third phases of the new 
standard, Classification and Measurement and Hedge Accounting, have 
been published. These relate to the classification and measurement of 
financial assets and liabilities, and replace the rule-based hedge accounting 
requirements in IAS 39 to align the accounting more closely with risk 
management activities, respectively. The second phase of the standard, 
covering impairment, is not yet published. The effective date of the new 
standard has been removed pending the completion of all phases of IFRS 9 
(previously 1 January 2015). 
The following new or amended IFRS accounting standards, amendments and 
interpretations not yet adopted are not expected to have a significant impact 
on the Group:
 • Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of Assets: Recoverable Amount 
Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets revise disclosure requirements 
related to the measurement of the recoverable amount and are effective 
for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
 • Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement: Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge 
Accounting are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2014.
 • Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation: Offsetting 
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities are effective for annual reporting 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
 • Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Separate Financial 
Statements: Investment Entities are effective for annual reporting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
 • IFRIC 21 Levies provides guidance on when to recognise a liability for a levy 
imposed by a government. The interpretation applies to annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
 • Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Defined Benefit Plans – 
Employee Contributions provides additional guidance on the accounting for 
contributions from employees or third parties set out in the formal terms of 
a defined benefit plan. The amendment is effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 July 2014.  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 161
Financial statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION
The Group’s segments are aligned to the structure of business units based around core commodities. Each business unit has a management team that is 
accountable to the Chief Executive. In the instance of Copper, Nickel and Niobium and Phosphates, the same management team is responsible for the 
management of all three business units.
The Kumba Iron Ore, Iron Ore Brazil and Samancor business units have been aggregated as the Iron Ore and Manganese segment on the basis of the ultimate 
product produced (ferrous metals).
The Other Mining and Industrial segment includes the Lafarge Tarmac joint venture and other Tarmac businesses, and also included Amapá until it was 
disposed of in November 2013. Until November 2012, this segment also included Scaw South Africa. Following a Group reorganisation in the second half of 
2013, and to align to the way the businesses are now managed, the Niobium and Phosphates business is reported as a separate segment, having previously 
been reported in the Other Mining and Industrial segment. Comparatives have been reclassified to align with current year presentation. 
On 16 August 2012, the Group acquired a controlling interest in De Beers Société Anonyme (De Beers) (Diamonds segment). Until this date De Beers was 
accounted for as an associate of the Group. From 16 August 2012, De Beers ceased to be an associate and has been accounted for as a subsidiary. For details 
of this acquisition see note 30.
The Group Management Committee evaluates the financial performance of the Group and its segments principally with reference to underlying operating 
profit. Underlying operating profit is operating profit before special items and remeasurements and includes the Group’s attributable share of associates’ 
and joint ventures’ operating profit before special items and remeasurements. Underlying EBITDA is underlying operating profit before depreciation and 
amortisation in subsidiaries and joint operations and includes attributable share of underlying operating profit before depreciation and amortisation of 
associates and joint ventures.
Segment revenue includes the Group’s attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ revenue. Segments predominantly derive revenue as follows –  
Iron Ore and Manganese: iron ore, manganese ore and alloys; Metallurgical Coal: metallurgical coal; Thermal Coal: thermal coal; Copper and Nickel: base 
metals; Niobium and Phosphates: niobium and phosphates; Platinum: platinum group metals; Diamonds: rough and polished diamonds; and Other Mining and 
Industrial: heavy building materials, until November 2013, iron ore and until November 2012, steel products.
The Exploration segment includes the cost of the Group’s exploration activities across all segments. 
The segment results are stated after elimination of inter-segment transactions and include an allocation of corporate costs.
Segment results
See note 40a for the Group’s accounting policy on revenue recognition.
Revenue
Underlying operating 
profit/(loss)
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
2013
2012
restated
(1)
Iron Ore and Manganese 6,517 6,403 3,119 3,011
Metallurgical Coal 3,396 3,889 46 405
Thermal Coal 3,004 3,447 541 793
Copper 5,392 5,122 1,739 1,736
Nickel 136 336 (44) 26
Niobium and Phosphates 726 770 150 169
Platinum 5,688 5,489 464 (120)
Diamonds 6,404 4,028 1,003 474
Other Mining and Industrial 1,795 3,296 (13) 168
Exploration – – (207) (206)
Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs 5 5 (178) (203)
Segment measure 33,063 32,785 6,620 6,253
Reconciliation:  
Less: associates and joint ventures (3,721) (4,105) (452) (760)
Include: operating special items and remeasurements – – (3,761) (7,093)
Statutory measure 29,342 28,680 2,407 (1,600)
Depreciation and amortisation Underlying EBITDA
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
2013
2012
restated
(1)
Iron Ore and Manganese 271 251 3,390 3,262
Metallurgical Coal 566 472 612 877
Thermal Coal 194 179 735 972
Copper 663 552 2,402 2,288
Nickel 7 24 (37) 50
Niobium and Phosphates 26 27 176 196
Platinum 584 700 1,048 580
Diamonds 448 238 1,451 712
Other Mining and Industrial 94 121 81 289
Exploration 2 – (205) (206)
Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs 45 43 (133) (160)
 2,900
(2)
 2,607
(2)
 9,520 8,860
Less: associates and joint ventures (262) (233) (714) (993)
 2,638 2,374 8,806 7,867
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
In addition $131 million (2012: $41 million) of depreciation and amortisation charges arising due to the fair value uplift of the Group’s pre-existing 45% shareholding in De Beers and nil  
(2012: $70 million) of accelerated depreciation arising from the cessation of Loma de Níquel have been recorded within operating special items and remeasurements (see note 6),  
and $100 million (2012: $81 million) of pre-commercial production depreciation has been capitalised. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 162 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued
Associates’ and joint ventures’ results by segment
Associates’ and joint ventures’ 
revenue
Associates’ and joint ventures’
underlying operating 
profit/(loss)
(1)
Share of net income/(loss)
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(2)
2013
2012
restated
(2)
2013
2012
restated
(2)
Iron Ore and Manganese 874 831 205 103 91 20
Metallurgical Coal 319 315 44 111 27 80
Thermal Coal 817 970 231 355 135 248
Platinum 228 231 (19) (63) (30) (94)
Diamonds 89 1,675 (21) 249 (35) 163
Other Mining and Industrial 1,394 83 12 5 (20) 4
 3,721 4,105 452 760 168 421
Associates’ and joint ventures’ 
depreciation and amortisation
Associates’ and joint ventures’ 
underlying EBITDA
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(2)
2013
2012
restated
(2)
Iron Ore and Manganese 48 50 253 153
Metallurgical Coal 15 14 59 125
Thermal Coal 71 54 302 409
Platinum 35 42 16 (21)
Diamonds 5 68 (16) 317
Other Mining and Industrial 88 5 100 10
 262 233 714 993
(1) 
Associates’ and joint ventures’ underlying operating profit/(loss) is the Group’s attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ revenue less operating costs before special items  
and remeasurements. 
(2) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
The reconciliation of associates’ and joint ventures’ underlying operating profit to ‘Share of net income from associates and joint ventures’ is as follows:
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Associates’ and joint ventures’ underlying operating profit 452 760
Net finance costs (36) (75)
Income tax expense (158) (197)
Non-controlling interests (15) (6)
Share of net income from associates and joint ventures (before special items and remeasurements) 243 482
Special items and remeasurements (80) (57)
Special items and remeasurements tax 3 (3)
Non-controlling interests on special items and remeasurements 2 (1)
Share of net income from associates and joint ventures 168 421
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
Underlying EBITDA is reconciled to underlying operating profit and to ‘Profit from operations, associates and joint ventures’ as follows:
US$ million 2013
2012 
restated
(1)
Underlying EBITDA 9,520 8,860
Depreciation and amortisation: subsidiaries and joint operations (2,638) (2,374)
Depreciation and amortisation: associates and joint ventures (262) (233)
Underlying operating profit 6,620 6,253
Operating special items and remeasurements (3,761) (7,093)
Non-operating special items and remeasurements (469) 1,396
Associates’ and joint ventures’ net special items and remeasurements (75) (61)
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ net finance costs, tax and non-controlling interests (209) (278)
Profit from operations, associates and joint ventures 2,106 217
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 163
Financial statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued
Other non-cash expenses
In addition to depreciation and amortisation, other non-cash expenses include equity settled share-based payment charges and amounts in respect of 
provisions, excluding amounts recorded within special items. Significant other non-cash expenses included within underlying operating profit are as follows:
US$ million 2013 2012
Iron Ore and Manganese 73 31
Metallurgical Coal 149 140
Thermal Coal 65 30
Copper 142 98
Nickel 16 25
Niobium and Phosphates 6 (3)
Platinum 56 81
Diamonds 42 52
Other Mining and Industrial 5 (56)
Exploration 1 3
Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs 70 70
 625 471
Segment assets and liabilities
Segment assets
(1)
Segment liabilities
(2)
Net segment assets/(liabilities)
US$ million 2013
2012 
restated
(3)
2013
2012 
restated
(3)
2013
2012 
restated
(3)
Iron Ore and Manganese 11,502 9,603 (468) (465) 11,034 9,138
Metallurgical Coal 5,335 6,078 (705) (859) 4,630 5,219
Thermal Coal 2,148 2,726 (726) (761) 1,422 1,965
Copper 9,549 9,557 (1,169) (1,126) 8,380 8,431
Nickel 1,695 2,613 (98) (104) 1,597 2,509
Niobium and Phosphates 955 806 (101) (115) 854 691
Platinum 9,579 11,490 (957) (1,071) 8,622 10,419
Diamonds 12,688 14,392 (1,337) (1,468) 11,351 12,924
Other Mining and Industrial 86 105 (61) (40) 25 65
Exploration 8 8 (5) (4) 3 4
Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs 492 424 (612) (709) (120) (285)
 54,037 57,802 (6,239) (6,722) 47,798 51,080
Other assets and liabilities
Investments in associates and joint ventures 4,612 3,162 – – 4,612 3,162
Financial asset investments 1,465 2,491 – – 1,465 2,491
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 1,364 1,204 (4,657) (6,051) (3,293) (4,847)
Derivative financial assets/(liabilities)  674 848 (1,511) (1,081) (837) (233)
Cash and cash equivalents 7,704 9,080 – – 7,704 9,080
Other non-operating assets/(liabilities)  1,309 1,400 (1,733) (1,651) (424) (251)
Borrowings – – (17,848) (17,635) (17,848) (17,635)
Other provisions for liabilities and charges – – (1,813) (1,340) (1,813) (1,340)
Assets/(liabilities) classified as held for sale – 3,150
(4)
 – (919)
(4)
 – 2,231
(4)
 71,165 79,137 (33,801) (35,399) 37,364 43,738
(1) 
Segment assets are operating assets and consist of intangible assets of $4,083 million (2012: $4,569 million), property, plant and equipment of $41,505 million (2012: $44,731 million), 
biological assets of $16 million (2012: $19 million), environmental rehabilitation trusts of $348 million (2012: $392 million), retirement benefit assets of $191 million (2012: $176 million), 
inventories of $4,789 million (2012: $5,002 million) and operating receivables of $3,105 million (2012: $2,913 million).
(2) 
Segment liabilities are operating liabilities and consist of non-interest bearing current liabilities of $3,392 million (2012: $3,709 million), environmental restoration and decommissioning 
provisions of $1,643 million (2012: $1,604 million) and retirement benefit obligations of $1,204 million (2012: $1,409 million).
(3) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(4) 
Balances for 2012 relate to Amapá and Tarmac Quarry Materials.
Product analysis
Revenue by product
US$ million 2013 2012
Iron ore 5,365 5,508
Manganese ore and alloys 874 831
Metallurgical coal 2,610 3,048
Thermal coal 3,802 4,287
Copper 5,253 5,038
Nickel 461 678
Niobium 182 173
Phosphates 544 597
Platinum 3,586 3,441
Palladium 1,052 906
Rhodium 316 389
Diamonds 6,391 4,027
Heavy building materials 1,695 2,171
Steel products – 798
Other 932 893
 33,063 32,785
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 164 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued 
Geographical analysis
Revenue by destination
The Group’s geographical analysis of segment revenue allocated based on the country in which the customer is located is as follows:
US$ million 2013 2012
South Africa 2,474 3,115
Other Africa 1,201 715
Brazil 1,019 1,093
Chile 1,692 1,241
Other South America 32 46
North America 1,084 1,274
Australia 277 340
China 6,469 5,927
India 2,505 2,544
Japan 3,769 4,049
Other Asia 3,252 3,595
United Kingdom (Anglo American plc’s country of domicile) 3,697 3,781
Other Europe 5,592 5,065
 33,063 32,785
Revenue and underlying operating profit by origin
The origin of the revenue and underlying operating profit is the location of the operation generating the revenue and operating profit.
Revenue
Underlying operating  
profit/(loss)
US$ million 2013 2012 2013
2012
restated
(1)
South Africa 14,132 14,592 4,189 3,374
Other Africa 4,544 3,256 532 437
Brazil 965 1,274 75 200
Chile 5,392 5,122 1,849 1,913
Other South America 817 1,131 185 304
North America 882 559 (129) (138)
Australia and Asia 4,255 4,616 238 465
Europe 2,076 2,235 (319) (302)
 33,063 32,785 6,620 6,253
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
Segment assets and liabilities by location
Segment assets Segment liabilities Net segment assets
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
2013
2012
restated
(1)
2013
2012
restated
(1)
South Africa 17,092 20,194 (2,654) (2,922) 14,438 17,272
Other Africa 7,783 8,313 (221) (202) 7,562 8,111
Brazil 9,964 8,833 (216) (228) 9,748 8,605
Chile 8,847 8,589 (1,131) (1,094) 7,716 7,495
Other South America 653 717 (55) (55) 598 662
North America 1,954 2,500 (262) (298) 1,692 2,202
Australia and Asia 5,534 5,850 (724) (819) 4,810 5,031
Europe 2,210 2,806 (976) (1,104) 1,234 1,702
 54,037 57,802 (6,239) (6,722) 47,798 51,080
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
Non-current segment assets by location
Non-current segment assets are non-current operating assets and consist of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
South Africa 13,542 16,492
Other Africa 6,945 8,029
Brazil 9,650 8,424
Chile 7,472 7,364
Other South America 556 623
North America 1,764 2,205
Australia and Asia 4,260 4,687
United Kingdom (Anglo American plc’s country of domicile) 1,257 1,325
Other Europe 142 151
 45,588 49,300
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 165
Financial statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4. OPERATING PROFIT/(LOSS) FROM SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT OPERATIONS
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Group revenue 29,342 28,680
Cost of sales (22,336) (25,835)
Gross profit 7,006 2,845
Selling and distribution costs (1,780) (2,023)
Administrative expenses (2,214) (2,124)
Other gains and losses (see below) (398) (92)
Exploration expenditure (207) (206)
Operating profit/(loss) from subsidiaries and joint operations 2,407 (1,600)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Operating profit/(loss) is stated after charging/(crediting):
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 12)
(2)
 2,579 2,343
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 11)
(3)
 59 31
Rentals under operating leases 142 181
Exploration expenditure 207 206
Evaluation expenditure 326 525
Research and development expenditure 103 80
Operating special items (note 6) 3,211 6,977
Employee costs (note 27) 4,834 5,021
Adjustment due to provisional pricing
(4)
 88 (14)
Royalties
(5)
 629 554
Other gains and losses comprise:
Operating remeasurements (note 6) (550) (116)
Other fair value (losses)/gains on derivatives – realised (21) 9
Foreign exchange gains on other monetary items 182 12
Other (9) 3
Total other gains and losses (398) (92)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
In addition $111 million (2012: $35 million) of depreciation arising due to the fair value uplift of the Group’s pre-existing 45% shareholding in De Beers and nil (2012: $70 million) of accelerated 
depreciation have been recorded within operating special items and remeasurements (see note 6) and $100 million (2012: $81 million) of pre-commercial production depreciation has 
been capitalised.
(3) 
In addition $20 million (2012: $6 million) of amortisation arising due to the fair value uplift of the Group’s pre-existing 45% shareholding in De Beers has been included within operating 
remeasurements.
(4) 
Provisionally priced contracts resulted in a total (realised and unrealised) loss in revenue of $76 million (2012: gain $37 million) and total (realised and unrealised) loss in operating costs 
of $12 million (2012: $23 million).
(5) 
Excludes those royalties which meet the definition of income tax on profit and accordingly have been accounted for as taxes.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure
See note 40j for the Group’s accounting policy on exploration and evaluation expenditure.
Exploration expenditure
(1)
Evaluation expenditure
(2)
US$ million 2013 2012 2013 2012
By commodity
Iron ore 24 23 69  89 
Metallurgical coal 19 18 39  68 
Thermal coal 14 14 21  33 
Copper 31 39 112  263 
Nickel 22 32 8  32 
Niobium and phosphates 6 2 16  1 
Platinum group metals 2 4 15  24 
Diamonds 53 23 46  15 
Central exploration activities 36 51 – –
 207 206 326 525
(1) 
Exploration for mineral resources other than that occurring at existing operations and projects.
(2) 
Evaluation of mineral resources relating to projects in the conceptual or pre-feasibility stage or further evaluation of mineral resources at existing operations.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 166 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
5. OPERATING PROFIT AND UNDERLYING EARNINGS BY SEGMENT 
The following table analyses operating profit (including attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ operating profit) by segment and reconciles it to 
underlying earnings by segment. 
Following a Group reorganisation in the second half of 2013, and to align to the way the businesses are now managed, the Niobium and Phosphates business is 
reported as a separate segment, having previously been reported in the Other Mining and Industrial segment. Comparatives have been reclassified to align 
with current year presentation.
Operating profit/(loss) before special items and remeasurements includes attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ operating profit before special 
items and remeasurements which is reconciled to ‘Share of net income from associates and joint ventures’ in note 3.
Underlying earnings is an alternative earnings measure, which the directors consider to be a useful additional measure of the Group’s performance. 
Underlying earnings is profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company before special items and remeasurements and is 
therefore presented after net finance costs, income tax expense and non-controlling interests. For a reconciliation from ‘Loss for the financial year attributable 
to equity shareholders of the Company’ to ‘Underlying earnings for the financial year’, see note 9. 
2013
2012
restated
(1)
US$ million
Operating 
profit/(loss) 
before special  
items and 
remeasure-
ments
Operating 
special  
items and 
remeasure- 
ments 
(note 6)
Operating 
profit/(loss) 
after special 
items and 
remeasure-
ments
Net finance 
costs, income 
tax expense 
and non- 
controlling 
interests
Underlying
earnings
Operating 
profit/(loss) 
before special 
items and 
remeasure-
ments
Operating 
special  
items and 
remeasure- 
ments 
(note 6)
Operating 
profit/(loss) 
after special 
items and 
remeasure-
ments
Net finance 
costs, income 
tax expense 
and non- 
controlling 
interests
Underlying
 earnings
Iron Ore and 
Manganese 3,119  435  2,684 (1,994)  1,125 3,011 5,139 (2,128) (1,965) 1,046
Metallurgical Coal 46  771 (725)  14  60 405 365 40 (130) 275
Thermal Coal 541  244  297 (144)  397 793 (1) 794 (270) 523
Copper 1,739  337 1,402 (936)  803 1,736 (9) 1,745 (795) 941
Nickel (44)  1,028 (1,072) (10) (54) 26 184 (158) (16) 10
Niobium and 
Phosphates 150  6  144 (58)  92 169 4 165 (62) 107
Platinum 464  522 (58) (177)  287 (120) 921 (1,041) (105) (225)
Diamonds 1,003  330  673 (471)  532 474 456 18 (185) 289
Other Mining and 
Industrial (13)  162 (175) 11 (2) 168 24 144 (47) 121
Exploration (207)  – (207)  17 (190) (206) – (206) 11 (195)
Corporate Activities 
and Unallocated Costs (178)  6 (184) (199) (377) (203) 68 (271) 171 (32)
 6,620  3,841  2,779 (3,947)  2,673 6,253 7,151 (898) (3,393) 2,860
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
6. SPECIAL ITEMS AND REMEASUREMENTS
Special items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the income statement to assist 
in the understanding of the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group. Such items are material by nature or amount to the year’s results and 
require separate disclosure in accordance with IAS 1 paragraph 97. Special items that relate to the operating performance of the Group are classified as 
operating special items and principally comprise impairment charges. Non-operating special items include profits and losses on disposals of investments and 
businesses as well as certain adjustments relating to business combinations.
Remeasurements comprise other items which the Group believes should be reported separately to aid an understanding of the underlying financial 
performance of the Group. This category includes:
 • Unrealised gains and losses on ‘non-hedge’ derivative instruments open at the year end (in respect of future transactions) and the reversal of the historical 
marked to market value of such instruments settled in the year. Where the underlying transaction is recorded in the income statement, the realised gains or 
losses are recorded in underlying earnings in the same year as the underlying transaction for which such instruments provide an economic, but not formally 
designated, hedge. If the underlying transaction is recorded in the balance sheet, for example capital expenditure, the realised amount remains in 
remeasurements on settlement of the derivative. Such amounts are classified in the income statement as operating when the underlying exposure is in 
respect of the operating performance of the Group and otherwise as financing.
 • Foreign exchange impacts arising in US dollar functional currency entities where tax calculations are generated based on local currency financial information 
and hence deferred tax is susceptible to currency fluctuations. Such amounts are included within income tax expense.
 • The remeasurement and subsequent depreciation of a previously held equity interest as a result of a business combination.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 167
Financial statements
6. SPECIAL ITEMS AND REMEASUREMENTS continued
2013
2012
restated
(1)
US$ million
Subsidiaries 
and joint 
operations
Associates
and joint
 ventures
(2)
Total
Subsidiaries 
and joint 
operations
Associates
and joint 
ventures
(2)
Total
Impairment of Minas-Rio – – – (4,960) – (4,960)
Impairment of Barro Alto (1,012)  – (1,012) – – –
Platinum operations (379)  – (379) (860) – (860)
Impairment of Foxleigh (331)  – (331) – – –
Impairment of Michiquillay (337)  – (337) – – –
Impairment of Thermal Coal operations (243) – (243) – – –
Cessation of Loma de Níquel –  –  – (159) – (159)
Other impairments and related charges (172)  – (172) (168) (62) (230)
Onerous contract provisions (434)  – (434) (386) – (386)
Reversal of De Beers inventory uplift (126)  – (126) (421) – (421)
Restructuring costs (177) (80) (257) (23) – (23)
Operating special items (3,211) (80) (3,291) (6,977) (62) (7,039)
Operating remeasurements (550)  – (550) (116) 4 (112)
Operating special items and remeasurements (3,761) (80) (3,841) (7,093) (58) (7,151)
Disposal of Amapá (175)  – (175) (404) – (404)
Exit from Pebble (311)  – (311) – – –
Loss on formation of Lafarge Tarmac joint venture (55)  – (55) (135) – (135)
Atlatsa refinancing (note 36) (37)  – (37) – – –
Kumba Envision Trust (54)  – (54) (77) – (77)
Other 163  –  163 22 – 22
Non-operating special items (469)  – (469) (594) – (594)
Non-operating remeasurement – net gain on acquisition of De Beers –  –  – 1,990 – 1,990
Non-operating special items and remeasurements (469)  – (469) 1,396 – 1,396
Financing remeasurements (130)  – (130) (89) 1 (88)
Total special items and remeasurements before tax and  
non-controlling interests (4,360) (80) (4,440) (5,786) (57) (5,843)
Special items and remeasurements tax 587  3  590 1,113 (3) 1,110
Non-controlling interests on special items and remeasurements 214  2  216 404 (1) 403
Net total special items and remeasurements attributable to equity 
shareholders of the Company (3,559) (75) (3,634) (4,269) (61) (4,330)
(1) 
The non-operating remeasurement related to the net gain on acquisition of De Beers has been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Relates to the Diamonds, Other Mining and Industrial and Thermal Coal segments (2012: Iron Ore and Manganese, Platinum and, until 16 August, Diamonds).
Operating special items
Barro Alto
The Barro Alto nickel project produced first metal in 2011 but its ramp-up has been significantly affected by issues in the kilns and furnaces. In order to 
eliminate uncertainties, most notably as a result of furnace design flaws, and enable attainment of the nominal capacity of the operation, a redesign and rebuild 
of the furnaces is planned to take place. The cost of the existing furnaces of $211 million has been written-off and the impact of lost production during the 
rebuild process (together with the associated capital expenditure) as well as a decline in nickel prices and updated operational planning has resulted in a 
further impairment of $801 million to the asset’s carrying value. Consequently a total impairment charge of $1,012 million has been recorded. The post-tax 
impairment charge is $724 million.
Platinum portfolio review
Platinum announced in August 2013 that it had completed the section 189 consultations on its proposals to create a sustainable, competitive and profitable 
platinum business for the long term benefit of all its stakeholders. Following the conclusion of these consultations, the proposals became effective. As a result, 
Khuseleka 2 shaft and Khomanani 1 and 2 shafts have been placed on long term care and maintenance as part of the consolidation of the Rustenburg 
operations into three operating mines, and the Union Mine North declines have been closed. As the Group no longer expects to receive future economic 
benefits from these operations they have been fully impaired, resulting in a charge of $379 million. The charge after tax and non-controlling interests is 
$232 million. In 2012 an impairment charge of $860 million was recognised in relation to certain Platinum projects and other assets not in use, that were not 
considered economically viable.
Foxleigh
An impairment charge of $331 million has been recorded in relation to Foxleigh (Metallurgical Coal), principally driven by a decline in metallurgical coal prices. 
The post-tax impairment charge is $232 million.
Michiquillay
The Group acquired the Michiquillay copper project in northern Peru in 2007. To date, $337 million in costs have been capitalised, primarily representing the 
costs of acquisition. In 2013, following a review of the concept level study, the Group decided not to progress the study to the pre-feasibility stage in its existing 
form, and engaged with the Peruvian government to agree a temporary suspension of acquisition payments to allow for a full review of the conceptual study. 
In view of the uncertainty in relation to the implementation of the project and its outcome, costs capitalised to date are no longer considered recoverable and 
have been fully impaired, resulting in a charge of $337 million. No tax arises on the impairment.
Thermal Coal
This relates to an impairment of $143 million in relation to the Isibonelo operation, reflecting management’s revised expectation of the operation’s future 
profitability under a long term coal supply contract, and an impairment of $100 million at the Kleinkopje operation, driven primarily by a decline in export 
thermal coal prices. The total post-tax impairment charge is $177 million.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 168 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
6. SPECIAL ITEMS AND REMEASUREMENTS continued
Onerous contract provisions
The charge of $434 million in relation to onerous contracts principally reflects a provision increase of $393 million for coal supply agreements inherited on 
acquisition of Callide in 2000. The pricing in the agreements, which extend to 2031, is significantly below market rates resulting in the unavoidable costs of 
meeting the obligations exceeding the economic benefit expected to be received from the contract. The increased provision reflects higher forecast 
operating expenditure. The post-tax charge in relation to onerous contract provisions is $341 million.
Reversal of De Beers inventory uplift
Inventory held by De Beers at the date of acquisition (16 August 2012) was required to be recognised at fair value under IFRS. This resulted in negligible 
margins being realised upon the subsequent sale of inventory held at the acquisition date. The reversal of fair value uplifts on the remaining inventory sold in 
2013 of $126 million (2012: $421 million) has been excluded from the Group’s underlying earnings so as not to distort the operating margins of De Beers and 
to provide more useful information about the performance of the Group.
Restructuring costs
Restructuring costs principally comprise charges of $146 million relating to the implementation of the Platinum portfolio review and $64 million related to 
integration costs incurred by the Lafarge Tarmac joint venture following its formation. Restructuring costs after tax and non-controlling interests is 
$167 million.
2012
In 2012, significant operating special items included the impairment of the Minas-Rio iron ore project (Iron Ore Brazil), impairments of certain Platinum 
projects and other Platinum assets not in use, a charge arising at Loma de Níquel due to the cancellation of its mining concessions in November 2012, charges 
relating to onerous contract provisions, principally in relation to Callide, and the reversal of fair value uplifts on inventory sold by De Beers.
Operating remeasurements
Operating remeasurements reflect a net loss of $550 million (2012: $112 million) principally in respect of derivatives related to capital expenditure in Iron Ore 
Brazil. Derivatives which have been realised during the period had a cumulative net operating remeasurement loss since their inception of $137 million 
(2012: loss of $71 million).
In addition, operating remeasurements includes a $131 million depreciation and amortisation charge (2012: $41 million) arising due to the fair value uplift on 
the pre-existing 45% shareholding of De Beers, which was required on acquisition of a controlling stake.
Non-operating special items
A loss of $175 million ($124 million after non-controlling interests) has been recognised in the year relating to the sale of Amapá in November 2013 (Other 
Mining and Industrial). In December 2012, Amapá was reclassified to held for sale and recognised at fair value less costs to sell, resulting in a loss of 
$404 million being recognised. For further details see note 31.
In December 2013, the Group withdrew from the Pebble copper project in Alaska. The Group’s 50% interest in the project was written-off in full, resulting in 
a charge of $311 million, including exit costs. No tax arises on the exit from Pebble.
A loss of $55 million has been recognised on the formation of the Lafarge Tarmac joint venture in January 2013 (Other Mining and Industrial) 
(2012: $135 million). The loss in the current year primarily relates to the transfer to the income statement of $62 million cumulative exchange losses previously 
recognised in equity, partially offset by a net gain of $7 million arising on the formation of the joint venture and the associated sale of certain of Tarmac Quarry 
Materials’ operations. For further details see note 30.
The Kumba Envision Trust charge of $54 million (2012: $77 million) relates to Kumba’s broad based employee share scheme provided solely for the benefit 
of non-managerial Historically Disadvantaged South African employees who do not participate in other Kumba share schemes.
Other non-operating special items principally comprise a gain of $44 million on deferred proceeds following payment received in the year in respect of 
undeveloped coal assets in Australia (Metallurgical Coal) which the Group disposed of in 2010, and a gain on disposal of the Group’s 16.79% effective interest 
in Palabora Mining Company Limited, a company listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE), in July 2013. Other non-operating special items, after tax 
and non-controlling interests, are a gain of $154 million.
Financing remeasurements
Financing remeasurements reflect a net loss of $130 million (2012: net loss of $88 million) and relate to an embedded interest rate derivative, derivatives 
relating to debt and other financing remeasurements.
Special items and remeasurements tax
Special items and remeasurements tax amounted to a credit of $590 million (2012: credit of $1,110 million). This includes a one-off tax charge of $188 million 
offset by a tax credit on special items and remeasurements of $923 million (2012: credit of $377 million) and a tax remeasurement charge of $145 million 
(2012: charge of $189 million). The tax charge of $188 million relates principally to a settlement reached in the current year between the South African 
Revenue Service and Rustenburg Platinum Mines Limited in respect of certain previously unresolved historical tax matters. The total amount payable in terms 
of the settlement agreement is $324 million and has been fully provided for.
The total tax credit relating to subsidiaries and joint operations of $587 million (2012: credit of $1,113 million) comprises a current tax charge of $159 million 
(2012: charge of $8 million) offset by a deferred tax credit of $746 million (2012: credit of $1,121 million).
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 169
Financial statements
7. NET FINANCE COSTS
See note 40b for the Group’s accounting policy on borrowing costs.
Net finance costs are presented net of hedges for respective interest bearing and foreign currency borrowings. 
The weighted average capitalisation rate applied to qualifying capital expenditure was 4.79% (2012: 4.10%).
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Investment income
Interest income from cash and cash equivalents 113 153
Other interest income 134 208
Net interest income on defined benefit arrangements 13 9
Dividend income from financial asset investments 18 54
 278 424
Less: interest income capitalised (7) (6)
Total investment income 271 418
Interest expense
Interest and other finance expense (731) (675)
Interest payable on convertible bond – (25)
Unwinding of discount on convertible bond – (25)
Net interest cost on defined benefit arrangements (74) (63)
Unwinding of discount relating to provisions and other liabilities (106) (114)
(911) (902)
Less: interest expense capitalised 327 272
Total interest expense (584) (630)
Other financing gains/(losses)
Net foreign exchange losses (21) (90)
Net fair value gains/(losses) on fair value hedges 81 (24)
Other net fair value (losses)/gains (23) 27
Total other financing gains/(losses) 37 (87)
Net finance costs before remeasurements (276) (299)
Remeasurements (note 6) (130) (89)
Net finance costs after remeasurements (406) (388)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
8. INCOME TAX EXPENSE
See note 40c for the Group’s accounting policy on tax.
a) Analysis of charge for the year
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
United Kingdom corporation tax credit (1) (12)
South Africa tax 863 802
Other overseas tax 692 605
Prior year adjustments 32 61
Current tax
(2)
  1,586 1,456
Deferred tax 275 50
Income tax expense before special items and remeasurements 1,861 1,506
Special items and remeasurements tax (note 6) (587) (1,113)
Income tax expense 1,274 393
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Includes royalties which meet the definition of income tax and are in addition to royalties recorded in operating costs.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 170 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
8. INCOME TAX EXPENSE continued
b) Factors affecting tax charge for the year
The effective tax rate for the year of 74.9% (2012: (229.8)%) is higher (2012: lower) than the applicable weighted average statutory rate of corporation tax in 
the United Kingdom of 23.25% (2012: 24.5%). The reconciling items, excluding the impact of associates and joint ventures, are:
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Profit/(loss) before tax 1,700 (171)
Less: share of net income from associates and joint ventures (168) (421)
Profit/(loss) before tax (excluding associates and joint ventures) 1,532 (592)
Tax on profit/(loss) (excluding associates and joint ventures) calculated at United Kingdom corporation tax rate of 23.25%  
(2012: 24.5%)
 356 (145)
Tax effects of:
Items non-taxable/deductible for tax purposes
Exploration expenditure 22 43
Non-taxable/deductible net foreign exchange (gains)/losses (16) 7
Non-taxable net interest income (9) (26)
Other non-deductible expenses 110 53
Other non-taxable income (105) (61)
Temporary difference adjustments
Current year losses not recognised 25 86
Recognition of losses not previously recognised (6) (69)
Utilisation of losses not previously recognised (8) –
Write-off of losses previously recognised 29 –
Adjustment in deferred tax due to change in tax rate 14 37
Other temporary differences (28) (77)
Special items and remeasurements 427 305
Other adjustments
Secondary tax on companies and dividend withholding taxes 242 23
Effect of differences between local and United Kingdom tax rates 173 70
Prior year adjustments to current tax 31 61
Other adjustments 17 86
Income tax expense 1,274 393
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
IAS 1 requires income from associates and joint ventures to be presented net of tax on the face of the income statement. Associates’ and joint ventures’ tax  
is therefore not included within the Group’s income tax expense. Associates’ and joint ventures’ tax included within ‘Share of net income from associates  
and joint ventures’ for the year ended 31 December 2013 is $155 million (2012: $200 million). Excluding special items and remeasurements this becomes 
$158 million (2012: $197 million).
The effective tax rate before special items and remeasurements including attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ tax for the year ended 
31 December 2013 was 32.0%. This is higher than the equivalent effective tax rate of 29.0% for the year ended 31 December 2012 due to the impact of 
various prior year adjustments and the remeasurement of certain withholding tax provisions across the Group. In future periods it is expected that the effective 
tax rate will remain above the United Kingdom statutory tax rate.
c) Tax amounts included in total comprehensive income
An analysis of tax by individual item presented in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income is presented below:
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Tax credit/(charge) on items recognised directly in equity that may subsequently be reclassified to the income statement
Net loss/(gain) on revaluation of available for sale investments 13 (79)
Net loss/(gain) on cash flow hedges 4 (1)
Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 156 (16)
Tax charge on items recognised directly in equity that will not be reclassified to the income statement
Remeasurement of net retirement benefit obligation (37) (25)
136 (121)
Tax credit/(charge) on items transferred from equity
Transferred to income statement: disposal of available for sale investments 12 30
Transferred to initial carrying amount of hedged items: cash flow hedges – (1)
12 29
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
d) Tax amounts recognised directly in equity
A deferred tax credit of $106 million and current tax charge of $106 million have been recognised directly in equity in relation to the disposal of a 24.5% 
interest in Anglo American Sur SA in 2011 (2012: no material current tax amounts, deferred tax charge of $110 million), see note 21. No capital gains tax has 
been charged directly to equity (2012: charge of $290 million relating to the profit on sale of a 25.4% share in Anglo American Sur SA). 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 171
Financial statements
9. EARNINGS PER SHARE
US$ 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Loss for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company
Basic loss per share
(2)
(0.75) (1.17)
Diluted loss per share
(2)
(0.75) (1.17)
Headline earnings for the financial year
(3)
Basic earnings per share 1.02 0.97
Diluted earnings per share 1.02 0.97
Underlying earnings for the financial year
(3)
Basic earnings per share 2.09 2.28
Diluted earnings per share 2.08 2.26
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Basic loss per share equals diluted loss per share as all potential ordinary shares are anti-dilutive.
(3) 
Basic and diluted earnings per share are shown based on headline earnings, a Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) defined performance measure, and underlying earnings, which the directors 
consider to be a useful additional measure of the Group’s performance. Both earnings measures are further explained below.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
Loss attributable to equity 
shareholders of the Company Headline earnings Underlying earnings
2013
2012
restated
(1)
2013
2012
restated
(1)
2013
2012
restated
(1)
Earnings (US$ million)
Basic (loss)/earnings (961) (1,470) 1,312 1,218 2,673 2,860
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares
Interest payable on convertible bond (net of tax)
(2)
 – – – – – 19
Unwinding of discount on convertible bond (net of tax)
(2)
 – – – – – 19
Diluted earnings (US$ million) (961) (1,470) 1,312 1,218 2,673 2,898
Number of shares (million)
Basic number of ordinary shares outstanding 1,281 1,254 1,281 1,254 1,281 1,254
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares
Share options and awards – – 4 5 4 5
Convertible bond
(2)
 – – – – – 23
Diluted number of ordinary shares outstanding (million) 1,281 1,254 1,285 1,259 1,285 1,282
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
All outstanding convertible bonds were converted or redeemed in 2012.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially 
dilutive ordinary shares. Potential ordinary shares shall be treated as dilutive when, and only when, their conversion to ordinary shares would decrease 
earnings per share or increase loss per share from continuing operations.
Basic loss per share is equal to diluted loss per share as all 16,688,080 (2012: 16,325,905) potential ordinary shares are anti-dilutive and 134,679 
(2012: 10,339,454) have been excluded from the calculation of diluted headline earnings per share and diluted underlying earnings per share as they are 
anti-dilutive. 
Basic and diluted number of ordinary shares outstanding represent the weighted average for the year. The average number of ordinary shares in issue 
excludes shares held by employee benefit trusts and Anglo American plc shares held by Group companies.
Underlying earnings is presented after non-controlling interests and excludes special items and remeasurements, see note 5. Underlying earnings is distinct 
from ‘Headline earnings’, which is a JSE defined performance measure.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share, based on headline and underlying earnings, uses the following earnings data:
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Loss for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company (961) (1,470)
Operating special items 2,491 6,050
Operating special items – tax (569) (1,600)
Operating special items – non-controlling interests (53) (123)
Non-operating special items and remeasurements 456 (1,494)
Non-operating special items – tax 10 35
Non-operating special items – non-controlling interests (62) (180)
Headline earnings for the financial year  1,312 1,218
Operating special items
(2)
 800 989
Operating remeasurements 550 112
Non-operating special items
(3)
13 98
Financing remeasurements 130 88
Tax special item 188 –
Special items and remeasurements tax (219) 455
Non-controlling interests on special items and remeasurements (101) (100)
Underlying earnings for the financial year  2,673 2,860
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Includes onerous contract provisions, restructuring costs and the reversal of the inventory uplift on De Beers.
(3) 
Principally relates to the Kumba Envision Trust and elements of the Atlatsa refinancing (2012: Kumba Envision Trust and transaction costs related to the De Beers acquisition).
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 172 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
10. DIVIDENDS
Dividends payable during the year are as follows:
US$ million 2013 2012
Final ordinary dividend for 2012 – 53 US cents per ordinary share (2011: 46 US cents per ordinary share) 672 559
Interim ordinary dividend for 2013 – 32 US cents per ordinary share (2012: 32 US cents per ordinary share) 406 411
1,078
(1)
970
(1)
(1) 
Of this, $618 million (2012: $599 million) was recognised in the parent company.
Total dividends paid during the year were $1,078 million (2012: $970 million). 
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 of 53 US cents per share. Based on shares eligible for 
dividends at 31 December 2013, this will result in an estimated distribution of $678 million of shareholders’ funds, of which $374 million will be distributed by 
the parent company. These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable as it is still subject to shareholder approval.
As stated in note 33, the employee benefit trust has waived the right to receive dividends on the shares it holds.
11. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
See notes 40d, 40e and 40i for the Group’s accounting policy on intangible assets.
2013
2012
restated
(1)
US$ million
Brands, 
contracts  
and other
intangibles
(2)
Goodwill
(3)
Total
Brands,
contracts  
and other
intangibles
(2)
Goodwill
(3)
Total
Net book value
At 1 January 1,615 2,954 4,569 83 2,239 2,322
Adoption of new standards
(1)
– – – (2) – (2)
At 1 January (restated) 1,615  2,954  4,569 81 2,239 2,320
Acquired through business combinations – – – 1,588 2,355 3,943
Additions 15 – 15 34 – 34
Amortisation charge for the year
(4)
(79) – (79) (37) – (37)
Impairments and losses on assets transferred to held for sale (2) – (2) (30) (1,169) (1,199)
Disposals and transfer to assets held for sale – – – (7) (441) (448)
Remeasurements – (18) (18) – – –
Currency movements (134) (268) (402) (14) (30) (44)
At 31 December 1,415  2,668  4,083 1,615 2,954 4,569
Cost 1,599  2,668  4,267 1,722 2,954 4,676
Accumulated amortisation (184) – (184) (107) – (107)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Includes $517 million (2012: $517 million) of assets with indefinite lives. Brands, contracts and other intangible assets are provided net of cumulative impairment charges of $31 million 
(2012: $29 million).
(3) 
The goodwill balances provided are net of cumulative impairment charges of $1,105 million (2012: $1,105 million). 
(4) 
Includes $20 million (2012: $6 million) of amortisation arising due to the fair value uplift of the Group’s pre-existing 45% shareholding in De Beers. This has been included within operating 
remeasurements.
In December 2012 an impairment of $1,105 million was recorded against goodwill related to Minas-Rio. The valuation of Minas-Rio was determined on a value 
in use basis using a real pre-tax discount rate of 8.5%. The total impairment charge of $4,960 million (before tax) was recorded against the carrying value of 
goodwill and mining properties, with an associated deferred tax credit of $960 million.
Impairment tests for goodwill
See note 40f for the Group’s accounting policy on impairment of goodwill.
Goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes to cash generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs which reflect how it is monitored for internal 
management purposes. This allocation largely represents the Group’s segments. Any goodwill associated with CGUs included within these segments is not 
significant when compared to the goodwill of the Group. The allocation of goodwill to CGUs or groups of CGUs is as follows:
US$ million 2013 2012
Thermal Coal 88 88
Copper 124 124
Nickel 10 10
Platinum 230 230
Diamonds 2,056 2,324
Other 160 178
 2,668 2,954
For the purposes of goodwill impairment testing, the recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on a fair value less costs of disposal basis. The key 
assumptions used in determining fair value less costs of disposal are set out in note 1. Management believes that any reasonably possible change in a key 
assumption on which the recoverable amounts are based would not cause the carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 173
Financial statements
12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
See notes 40g to 40j for the Group’s accounting policies on property, plant and equipment.
2013
2012
restated
(1)
US$ million
Mining 
properties
 and leases
(2)
Land and 
buildings
Plant and 
equipment
Capital works
 in progress Total
Mining 
properties
and leases
(2)
Land and 
buildings
Plant and 
equipment
Capital works
in progress
(3)
Total
Net book value
At 1 January 17,301 2,996 14,268 10,166 44,731 14,643 2,620 14,822 8,464 40,549
Adoption of new 
standards
(1)
– – – – – (155) – (20) (292) (467)
At 1 January (restated) 17,301  2,996  14,268  10,166  44,731 14,488 2,620 14,802 8,172 40,082
Acquired through 
business combinations –  –  –  –  – 7,307 420 395 790 8,912
Additions 827  43  209  5,818  6,897 519 44 179 5,384 6,126
Depreciation charge 
for the year
(4)
(1,125) (135) (1,530) – (2,790) (648) (200) (1,637) (44) (2,529)
Impairments 
and losses on transfer 
to assets held for sale (959) (147) (817) (401) (2,324) (4,009) (35) (352) (794) (5,190)
Disposal of assets (286) (10) (52) (106) (454) (5) (4) (45) (12) (66)
Disposal and transfer 
to assets held for sale –  –  –  –  – (644) (148) (1,007) (155) (1,954)
Reclassifications
(5)
1,432 599 780 (2,811)  – 558 346 2,149 (3,053) –
Currency movements (2,194) (316) (1,328) (717) (4,555) (265) (47) (216) (122) (650)
At 31 December 14,996  3,030  11,530  11,949 41,505 17,301 2,996 14,268 10,166 44,731
Cost 24,334  4,191  21,263  12,279  62,067 25,047 4,001 23,312 10,348 62,708
Accumulated 
depreciation (9,338) (1,161) (9,733) (330) (20,562) (7,746) (1,005) (9,044) (182) (17,977)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details. The adoption of IFRIC 20 has resulted in the write-off of 
previously capitalised deferred stripping costs of $155 million to retained earnings as they were not associated with an existing component of an operating mine. The adoption of IFRS 11 has 
resulted in $312 million of property, plant and equipment being reclassified to investments in equity accounted joint ventures.
(2) 
Additions to mining properties and leases include amounts of $382 million in relation to deferred stripping production stage Ore Reserves development. Before the adoption of IFRIC 20, a net 
deferral of production stage stripping costs of $147 million in 2012 was included in additions to mining properties and leases. The treatment of production stage Ore Reserves development has 
not changed.
(3) 
2012 includes $196 million of other assets, all of which have been disposed of or transferred into other categories in 2013.
(4) 
Includes $2,579 million (2012: $2,343 million) of depreciation within operating profit, $111 million (2012: $35 million) of depreciation arising due to the fair value uplift on the pre-existing 45% 
shareholding of De Beers and nil (2012: $70 million) of accelerated depreciation, both of which have been recorded within operating special items and remeasurements (see note 6), and 
$100 million (2012: $81 million) of pre-commercial production depreciation which has been capitalised. See note 3 for a split of depreciation and amortisation by segment.
(5) 
Relates mainly to amounts transferred from capital works in progress.
The impairments recorded in the year are detailed in note 6. Fair value less costs of disposal has been used as the basis for determining the recoverable 
amount. The fair value depends principally on unobservable inputs and is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Where the recoverable amount is 
estimated to be less than the carrying amount an impairment has been recorded. 
Included in the additions is $320 million (2012: $266 million) of net interest expense incurred on borrowings funding the construction of qualifying assets 
which has been capitalised during the year.
Assets held under finance leases relate to plant and equipment with a net book value of $50 million (2012: $27 million), depreciation charges in the year 
amounted to $13 million (2012: $7 million).
The net book value of land and buildings comprises:
US$ million 2013 2012
Freehold 2,966 2,952
Leasehold – long 62 41
Leasehold – short (less than 50 years) 2 3
 3,030 2,996
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 174 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
13. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES
See note 40k for the Group’s accounting policy on associates and joint arrangements, which includes joint ventures. Prior to the adoption of IFRS 11 joint 
ventures were accounted for using proportionate consolidation. These arrangements are now accounted for using the equity method.
Details of principal associates and joint ventures are set out in note 38. 
2013
2012
restated
(1)
US$ million Associates
Joint  
ventures Total Associates
Joint  
ventures Total
At 1 January 3,063 99 3,162 5,240 n/a
(2)
5,240
Adoption of new standards
(1)
– – – (1) 113 112
At 1 January (restated) 3,063  99  3,162 5,239 113 5,352
Share of net income/(loss) from associates and joint ventures 238 (70)  168 428 (7) 421
Dividends received (242) (4) (246) (286) (8) (294)
Interest on capitalised loans –  –  – 9 – 9
Share of expense recognised directly in equity, net of tax –  –  – (3) – (3)
Other equity movements –  –  – (4) – (4)
Investment in equity and capitalised loans 175  46  221 114 – 114
Repayment of capitalised loans (108)  – (108) (36) – (36)
Acquired through formation of joint ventures (note 30) –  1,658  1,658 12 – 12
Disposals –  –  – (2,370)
(3)
– (2,370)
Impairment – (98) (98) – – –
Other movements –  –  – 1 – 1
Currency movements (190)  45 (145) (41) 1 (40)
At 31 December
(4)
 2,936  1,676  4,612 3,063 99 3,162
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Prior to the adoption of IFRS 11, equity accounted balances comprised only associates.
(3) 
Represents the carrying value of the Group’s pre-existing 45% shareholding in De Beers prior to the acquisition of a controlling interest on 16 August 2012, see note 30.
(4) 
The fair value of the Group’s investment in its associate Atlatsa Resources Corporation at 31 December 2013 was $64 million (2012: $18 million).
The Group’s total investments in associates and joint ventures comprise:
2013
2012
restated
(1)
US$ million Associates
Joint  
ventures Total Associates
Joint  
ventures Total
Equity 2,553  1,676  4,229 2,359 99 2,458
Loans
(2)
 383  –  383 704 – 704
 2,936  1,676  4,612 3,063 99 3,162
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
The Group’s total investments in associates include long term loans which in substance form part of the Group’s net investment. These loans are not repayable in the foreseeable future.
Associates and joint ventures
None of the Group’s associates or joint ventures are considered to be individually material to the Group, and therefore the financial information of associates 
and joint ventures is provided on an aggregated basis.
2013
2012
restated
(1)
US$ million Associates
Joint  
ventures Total Associates
Joint  
ventures Total
Non-current assets 2,900 2,049  4,949 2,521 320 2,841
Current assets 1,234  725  1,959 1,494 61 1,555
Current liabilities (451) (785) (1,236) (379) (170) (549)
Non-current liabilities (747) (313) (1,060) (573) (112) (685)
Net assets 2,936  1,676  4,612 3,063 99 3,162
Revenue 2,238  1,483  3,721 4,024 81 4,105
Share of net income/(loss) from associates and joint ventures 238 (70)  168 428 (7) 421
Other comprehensive expense – – – (25) – (25)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) 238 (70) 168 403 (7) 396
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
Segmental information is provided in aggregate for associates and joint ventures as follows:
Aggregate investment
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Iron Ore and Manganese 907 965
Metallurgical Coal 235 277
Thermal Coal 1,182 1,085
Platinum 648 786
Diamonds 29 13
Other Mining and Industrial 1,611 36
 4,612 3,162
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
The Group’s share of joint ventures’ capital commitments relating to its interests in joint ventures, including its share of commitments made jointly with other 
investors, is $364 million (2012: $462 million).
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 175
Financial statements
14. FINANCIAL ASSET INVESTMENTS
See notes 40l and 40m for the Group’s accounting policy on financial asset investments.
2013
2012
restated
(1)
US$ million
Loans and 
receivables
Available  
for sale 
investments Total
Loans and 
receivables
Available  
for sale 
investments Total
At 1 January 1,427 1,064 2,491 1,690 1,206 2,896
Adoption of new standards
(1)
– – – 107 – 107
At 1 January (restated) 1,427  1,064  2,491 1,797 1,206 3,003
Additions – – – 8 8 16
Acquired through business combinations –  –  – 41 19 60
Interest receivable 37  –  37 27 – 27
Net repayments (424)
(2)
  – (424) (79) – (79)
Transfer to assets held for sale –  –  – (16) – (16)
Disposals (9) (99) (108) (314) (273) (587)
Movements in fair value (37) (69) (106) 26 173 199
Currency movements (235) (190) (425) (63) (69) (132)
At 31 December 759  706  1,465 1,427 1,064 2,491
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of the new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Includes non-cash settlements relating to the refinancing of Atlatsa Resources Corporation. See note 6.
No provision for impairment is recorded against financial assets classified as ‘Loans and receivables’ (2012: nil). 
Maturity analysis of financial asset investments is as follows:
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Current 19 102
Non-current 1,446 2,389
 1,465 2,491
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of the new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
15. INVENTORIES
See note 40q for the Group’s accounting policy on inventories.
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Raw materials and consumables 915 934
Work in progress 1,496 1,500
Finished products 2,378 2,568
 4,789 5,002
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to $17,929 million (2012: $15,709 million). An additional $126 million 
was recognised as an expense within operating special items (2012: $421 million) relating to the reversal of fair value uplifts on De Beers inventory, see note 6.
Inventories held at net realisable value amounted to $308 million (2012: $352 million).
Write-down of inventories (net of revaluation of provisionally priced purchases) amounted to $58 million (2012: $145 million).
The value of inventory write-downs reversed and recognised as a reduction in the inventory expense for the year was $4 million (2012: nil).
16. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Trade receivables do not incur any interest, are principally short term in nature and are measured at their nominal value (with the exception of receivables 
relating to provisionally priced sales, as set out in the revenue recognition accounting policy, see note 40a), net of appropriate provision for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts. Such provisions are raised based on an assessment of debtor ageing, past experience or known customer circumstances.
2013
2012
restated
(1)
US$ million
Due within 
one year
Due after  
one year Total
Due within 
one year
Due after  
one year Total
Trade receivables 2,596  235 2,831 2,491 193 2,684
Other receivables 541  502 1,043 572 318 890
Prepayments and accrued income 214  60  274 180 49 229
 3,351  797  4,148 3,243 560 3,803
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
The historical level of customer default is minimal and as a result the credit quality of year end trade receivables is considered to be high. Of the year end  
trade receivables balance, $65 million (2012: $36 million) were past due at 31 December, stated after an associated impairment provision of $19 million  
(2012: $11 million). The overdue debtor ageing profile is typical of the industry in which certain of the Group’s businesses operate. Given this, the existing 
insurance cover (including letters of credit from financial institutions) and the nature of the related counterparties, these amounts are considered recoverable.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 176 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
17. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are measured at their nominal value with the exception of amounts relating to purchases of provisionally priced 
concentrate which are marked to market (using the appropriate forward price) until settled.
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Trade payables 2,364 2,683
Tax and social security 100 103
Other payables 903 700
Accruals and deferred income
(2)
1,024 1,026
 4,391 4,512
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Includes $22 million (2012: $18 million) of deferred income recorded within non-current liabilities.
18. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
See notes 40m and 40n for the Group’s accounting policies on impairment of financial assets, derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting.
The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities are as shown below. Where the carrying amount of a financial asset or liability does not 
approximate its fair value, this is also disclosed. 
For financial assets and liabilities which are traded on an active market, such as listed investments or listed debt instruments, fair value is determined by 
reference to market value. For non-traded financial assets and liabilities, fair value is calculated using discounted cash flows, considered to be reasonable and 
consistent with those that would be used by a market participant, and based on observable market data where available, unless carrying value is considered to 
approximate fair value.
2013
2012
restated
(1)
US$ million
Financial assets
At fair value through profit and loss
Trade and other receivables
(2)
 1,652 581
Derivative financial assets
(3)
 674 848
Loans and receivables
Cash and cash equivalents 7,704 9,080
Trade and other receivables
(2)
 2,222 2,993
Financial asset investments
(4)
 759 1,427
Available for sale investments
Financial asset investments 706 1,064
 13,717 15,993
Financial liabilities
At fair value through profit and loss
Trade and other payables
(2)
(279) (296)
Derivative financial liabilities
(3)
(1,511) (1,081)
Designated into fair value hedges
Borrowings
(5)
(14,619) (13,425)
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Trade and other payables
(2)
(3,923) (4,075)
Borrowings
(6)
(3,229) (4,210)
Other non-current liabilities – (29)
(23,561) (23,116)
Net financial liabilities (9,844) (7,123)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Trade and other receivables exclude prepayments and accrued income. Trade and other payables exclude tax and social security and deferred income.
(3) 
Derivative instruments are analysed between those which are ‘Held for trading’ and those designated into hedge relationships in note 19.
(4) 
The carrying value of financial asset investments within loans and receivables is considered to approximate fair value (2012: fair value of $1,397 million including investments categorised as 
level 3 in the fair value hierarchy).
(5) 
Borrowings designated in fair value hedges represent listed debt. The fair value of these borrowings is $14,907 million (2012: $13,735 million), which is based on the quoted market price and 
consequently categorised as level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.
(6) 
For the majority of borrowings at amortised cost the carrying value is considered to approximate the fair value. In certain circumstances the fair value of borrowings is based on management’s 
estimates of future cash flows and consequently the valuation is categorised as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. The total fair value of borrowings at amortised cost is $3,269 million 
(2012: $4,062 million).
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 177
Financial statements
18. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 
Fair value hierarchy
An analysis of financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value is set out below:
2013 2012
US$ million Level 1
(1)
Level 2
(2)
Level 3
(3)
Total Level 1
(1)
Level 2
(2)
Level 3
(3)
Total
Financial assets
At fair value through profit and loss
Provisionally priced trade receivables –  1,510  –  1,510 – 581 – 581
Other receivables –  –  142  142 – – – –
Derivatives hedging net debt –  628  24  652 – 777 34 811
Other derivatives – 22  –  22 1 36 – 37
Available for sale investments
Financial asset investments 647  –  59  706 980 11 73 1,064
 647  2,160  225  3,032 981 1,405 107 2,493
Financial liabilities
At fair value through profit and loss
Provisionally priced trade payables – (279)  – (279) – (296) – (296)
Derivatives hedging net debt – (714) (446) (1,160) – (784) (195) (979)
Other derivatives (3) (338) (10) (351) – (81) (21) (102)
(3) (1,331) (456) (1,790) – (1,161) (216) (1,377)
Net assets/(liabilities) carried at fair value 644  829 (231)  1,242 981 244 (109) 1,116
(1) 
Valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments. This category includes listed equity shares.
(2) 
Valued using techniques based significantly on observable market data. Instruments in this category are valued using valuation techniques where all of the inputs that have a significant effect 
on the valuation are directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
(3) 
Instruments in this category have been valued using a valuation technique where at least one input (which could have a significant effect on the instrument’s valuation) is not based on 
observable market data. Where inputs can be observed from market data without undue cost and effort, the observed input is used. Otherwise, management determines a reasonable estimate 
for the input. 
Financial assets and liabilities included within level 3 primarily consist of contingent proceeds and related receivables relating to disposals, embedded 
derivatives, unlisted equity investments, certain cross currency swaps of Brazilian real denominated borrowings (whose valuation depends upon unobservable 
inputs) and commodity sales contracts which do not meet the conditions for the ‘own use’ exemption under IAS 39.
The movements in the fair value of the level 3 financial assets and liabilities are shown as follows:
Assets Liabilities
US$ million 2013 2012 2013 2012
At 1 January 107 217 (216) (188)
Net gain/(loss) recorded in the income statement
(1)
 134 (141) (195) (14)
Net gain recorded in the statement of comprehensive income 2 19 – –
Reclassification from/to level 3 financial liabilities – 14 – (14)
Currency movements (18) (2) (45) –
At 31 December  225 107 (456) (216)
(1) 
The majority of this is recorded in remeasurements.
For the level 3 financial assets and liabilities, changing certain inputs to reasonably possible alternative assumptions does not change the fair value 
significantly. 
The net gains and losses recorded in the Consolidated income statement in respect of financial instruments were as follows:
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
At fair value through profit and loss
Cash flow hedge derivatives transferred from equity – (4)
Fair value hedge: hedged items 555 (193)
Fair value hedge: hedging instruments (474) 169
Foreign exchange gains 4 12
Other fair value movements
(2)
(643) (144)
Loans and receivables
Foreign exchange gains 141 17
Interest income at amortised cost
(3)
 172 321
Available for sale
Net gain transferred on sale from equity 89 67
Dividend income 18 54
Impairment of available for sale investments (14) (84)
Foreign exchange losses – (30)
Other financial liabilities
Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 16 (106)
Interest expense at amortised cost
(3)
(324) (404)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Includes the impact of provisional pricing, see note 4, and certain operating and financing remeasurements, see note 6.
(3) 
Interest income and expense at amortised cost are shown net of amounts capitalised. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 178 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
19. DERIVATIVES
See note 40n for the Group’s accounting policy on derivatives.
The fair values of derivatives are separately recorded on the Consolidated balance sheet within ‘Derivative financial assets’ and ‘Derivative financial liabilities’. 
Derivatives are classified as current or non-current depending on the date of expected settlement of the derivative. 
The Group utilises derivative instruments to manage certain market risk exposures. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative 
purposes, however it may choose not to designate certain derivatives as hedges for accounting purposes. Such derivatives are classified as ‘non-hedges’ and 
fair value movements are recorded in the Consolidated income statement.
The use of derivative instruments is subject to limits and the positions are regularly monitored and reported to senior management.
Cash flow hedges
In certain cases the Group classifies its forward foreign currency contracts, which hedge highly probable forecast transactions, as cash flow hedges. Where 
this designation is documented, changes in fair value are recognised in equity until the hedged transactions occur, at which time the respective gains or losses 
are transferred to the Consolidated income statement (or hedged balance sheet item).
Fair value hedges
The majority of interest rate swaps (taken out to swap the Group’s fixed rate borrowings to floating rate, in accordance with the Group’s policy) have been 
designated as fair value hedges. The carrying value of the hedged debt is adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect the impact on its fair value of changes 
in market interest rates. Changes in the fair value of the hedged debt are offset against fair value changes in the interest rate swap and classified within net 
finance costs in the Consolidated income statement.
Held for trading
The Group may choose not to designate certain derivatives as hedges. This may occur where the Group is economically hedged but IAS 39 hedge accounting 
cannot be achieved or where gains and losses on both the derivative and hedged item naturally offset in the Consolidated income statement, as is the case for 
certain cross currency swaps of non-US dollar debt. Where these derivatives have not been designated as hedges, fair value changes are recognised in the 
Consolidated income statement as remeasurements and are classified as financing or operating depending on the nature of the associated hedged risk.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not 
closely related to those of their host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value. 
The fair value of the Group’s open derivative position at 31 December (excluding normal purchase and sale contracts held off balance sheet), recorded within 
‘Derivative financial assets’ and ‘Derivative financial liabilities’ is as follows:
Current Non-current
2013 2012 2013 2012
US$ million Asset Liability Asset Liability Asset Liability Asset Liability
Derivatives hedging net debt
Fair value hedge
Interest rate swaps 8 – 30 – 354 (138) 687 (6)
Held for trading
Forward foreign currency contracts 18 (86) 2 (54) – – – –
Cross currency swaps 24 (15) 32 (125) 248 (919) 60 (781)
Interest rate swaps – – – – – (2) – (13)
 50 (101) 64 (179) 602 (1,059) 747 (800)
Other derivatives
Cash flow hedge
Forward foreign currency contracts – (6) 3 – – (3) – –
Fair value hedge
Forward commodity contracts – (3) 1 (2) – – – –
Held for trading
Forward foreign currency contracts 20 (249) 33 (70) 2 (73) – (1)
Other – (13) – (29) – (4) – –
 20 (271) 37 (101) 2 (80) – (1)
Total derivatives 70 (372) 101 (280) 604 (1,139) 747 (801)
These marked to market valuations are not predictive of the future value of the hedged position, nor of the future impact on the profit of the Group. The 
valuations represent the cost of closing all hedge contracts at year end, at market prices and rates available at the time.
The Group is exposed in varying degrees to a variety of financial instrument related risks. For more information about these risks and the ways in which the 
Group manages them see notes 25 and 39. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 179
Financial statements
20. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES
See note 40r for the Group’s accounting policy on environmental restoration and decommissioning obligations.
US$ million
Environmental
restoration Decommissioning
Employee 
benefits
Onerous 
contracts Other Total
At 1 January 2013 1,089 517 439 350 553 2,948
Adoption of new standards
(1)
(2) – (2) – – (4)
At 1 January 2013 (restated) 1,087  517  437 350 553  2,944 
Charged to the income statement 177  –  214 439 322  1,152 
Capitalised 51  24  – – 6  81 
Unwinding of discount 60  30  1 20 10  121 
Amounts applied (33) (1) (175) (32) (164) (405) 
Unused amounts reversed (26) (14) (21) – (7) (68) 
Currency movements (161) (68) (38) (75) (27) (369) 
At 31 December 2013 1,155  488  418 702 693  3,456 
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
Maturity analysis of total provisions:
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Current 768 560
Non-current 2,688 2,384
 3,456 2,944
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
Environmental restoration
The Group has an obligation to undertake restoration, rehabilitation and environmental work when environmental disturbance is caused by the development 
or ongoing production of a mining property. A provision is recognised for the present value of such costs. It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred over 
a period in excess of 20 years. Contributions to controlled funds are made to meet the cost of some of the Group’s environmental restoration and 
decommissioning liabilities, see environmental rehabilitation trusts below.
Decommissioning
Provision is made for the present value of costs relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site restoration work. It is anticipated that these costs will be 
incurred over a period in excess of 20 years.
Employee benefits
Provision is made for statutory or contractual employee entitlements including long service leave, annual leave, sickness pay obligations and cash settled 
share-based payment obligations. It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred when employees choose to take their benefits.
Onerous contracts
Provision is made for the present value of certain long term contracts where the unavoidable cost of meeting the Group’s obligations is expected to exceed the 
benefits to be received. It is anticipated these costs will be incurred over a period of up to 17 years.
Other
Other provisions primarily relate to indemnities, warranties and legal claims. It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred over a five year period.
Environmental rehabilitation trusts
The Group makes contributions to controlled funds that were established to meet the cost of some of its restoration and environmental rehabilitation liabilities, 
primarily in South Africa. The funds comprise the following investments:
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Equity 149 150
Bonds 134 151
Cash 65 91
 348 392
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
These assets are primarily denominated in South African rand. Cash is held in short term fixed deposits or earns interest at floating inter-bank rates. Bonds 
earn interest at a weighted average fixed rate of 8.2% (2012: 8.4%) for an average period of five years (2012: five years). Equity investments are recorded at 
fair value through profit and loss and bonds are recorded at amortised cost.
These funds are not available for the general purposes of the Group. All income from these assets is reinvested to meet specific environmental obligations. 
These obligations are included in provisions stated above.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 180 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
21. DEFERRED TAX
See note 40c for the Group’s accounting policy on tax.
The movement in net deferred tax liabilities during the year is as follows:
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
At 1 January (4,847) (5,200)
Adoption of new standards
(1)
– 22
At 1 January (restated) (4,847) (5,178)
Credited to the income statement 471 1,071
Credited/(charged) to the statement of comprehensive income 148 (92)
Credited/(charged) directly to equity 106 (110)
Acquired through business combinations – (850)
Transfer to assets held for sale – 118
Currency movements 829 194
At 31 December (3,293) (4,847)
Comprising:
Deferred tax assets 1,364 1,204
Deferred tax liabilities (4,657) (6,051)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
The amount of deferred tax recognised in the Consolidated balance sheet is as follows:
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Deferred tax assets
Tax losses 593 358
Post employment benefits 71 118
Share-based payments 5 9
Enhanced tax depreciation 414 560
Other temporary differences 281 159
 1,364 1,204
Deferred tax liabilities
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation (2,871) (3,321)
Fair value adjustments (1,476) (2,582)
Tax losses 29 29
Derivatives 4 15
Provisions 436 416
Chilean withholding tax (570) (567)
Other temporary differences (209) (41)
(4,657) (6,051)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
The amount of deferred tax credited/(charged) to the Consolidated income statement is as follows:
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation (238) (34)
Fair value adjustments 73 (133)
Tax losses 187 7
Derivatives 220 99
Provisions 134 41
Chilean withholding tax (3) 89
Other temporary differences 98 1,002
 471 1,071
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
In 2012 this principally related to Minas-Rio ($960 million credit). This is made up of a deferred tax credit of $1,360 million in relation to the impairment of Minas-Rio and a deferred tax charge of 
$400 million in relation to the partial derecognition of a deferred tax asset for enhanced tax depreciation in Minas-Rio.
The current expectation regarding the maturity of deferred tax balances is as follows:
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Deferred tax assets
Recoverable within one year 123 131
Recoverable after one year 1,241 1,073
 1,364 1,204
Deferred tax liabilities
Payable within one year (315) (340)
Payable after one year (4,342) (5,711)
(4,657) (6,051)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 181
Financial statements
21. DEFERRED TAX continued
The Group has the following balances in respect of which no deferred tax asset has been recognised:
2013 2012
US$ million
Tax  
losses – 
revenue
Tax  
losses – 
capital
Other 
temporary 
differences Total
Tax  
losses – 
revenue
Tax  
losses – 
capital
Other 
temporary 
differences Total
Expiry date
Within one year 16  –  –  16 17 – – 17
Greater than one year, less than five years 294  –  –  294 286 – – 286
Greater than five years 3  –  4,370  4,373 3 – 2,997 3,000
No expiry date 4,858 753 2,077 7,688 4,467 1,097 1,953 7,517
5,171  753 6,447 12,371 4,773 1,097 4,950 10,820
The Group also has unused tax credits of $17 million (2012: $16 million) for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the Consolidated balance sheet. All of 
these credits expire within three years.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interests in 
joint arrangements where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments in subsidiaries, branches, 
associates and interests in joint arrangements is represented by the contribution of those investments to the Group’s retained earnings and amounted to 
$19,117 million (2012: $21,846 million).
22. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE
See note 40s for the Group’s accounting policy on non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale.
There are no assets and liabilities classified as held for sale at 31 December 2013. 
2012
US$ million Amapá
Tarmac 
Quarry 
Materials Total
(1)
Intangible assets 1 418 419
Property, plant and equipment 171 1,655 1,826
Other non-current assets 4 11 15
Total non-current assets 176 2,084 2,260
Inventories 103 111 214
Trade and other receivables 157 292 449
Cash and cash equivalents 26 201 227
Total current assets 286 604 890
Total assets classified as held for sale 462 2,688 3,150
Trade and other payables (149) (406) (555)
Short term borrowings (11) (3) (14)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (3) (24) (27)
Total current liabilities (163) (433) (596)
Deferred tax liabilities – (150) (150)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (59) (97) (156)
Other non-current liabilities – (17) (17)
Total non-current liabilities (59) (264) (323)
Total liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale (222) (697) (919)
Net assets 240 1,991 2,231
(1) 
The Group’s investments in Amapá and Tarmac Quarry Materials were included in the Other Mining and Industrial segment.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 182 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
23. CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment
Capital expenditure is segmented on a cash basis and includes cash flows on related derivatives.
US$ million 2013
2012 
restated
(1)
Iron Ore and Manganese 2,517 2,139
Metallurgical Coal 1,050 1,028
Thermal Coal 217 266
Copper 1,011 1,214
Nickel (28)
(2)
 100
Niobium and Phosphates 237 94
Platinum 608 822
Diamonds 551 161
Other Mining and Industrial 53 171
Exploration 1 6
Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs 44 29
 6,261 6,030
Less: cash outflows from derivatives relating to capital expenditure (136) (71)
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment 6,125 5,959
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Cash capital expenditure for Nickel of $76 million is offset by the capitalisation of $104 million of net operating cash inflows generated by Barro Alto which has not yet reached commercial 
production.
Capital expenditure by category including associated derivatives
US$ million 2013
2012 
restated
(1)
Expansionary
(2)
 3,258 2,956
Stay-in-business 2,242 2,290
Stripping and development 761 784
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment 6,261 6,030
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Cash flows from derivatives relating to capital expenditure relate to expansionary capital expenditure.
24. NET DEBT
See note 40o for the Group’s accounting policy on cash and debt.
Net debt is a measure of the Group’s financial position. The Group uses net debt to monitor the sources and uses of financial resources, the availability of 
capital to invest or return to shareholders, and the resilience of the balance sheet. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents 
(including derivatives which provide an economic hedge of debt and the net debt of disposal groups).
a) Reconciliation to the balance sheet
Cash and cash equivalents Short term borrowings
Medium and  
long term borrowings
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
2013
2012
restated
(1)
2013 2012
Balance sheet 7,704 9,080 (2,108) (2,485) (15,740) (15,150)
Balance sheet – disposal groups
(2)
– 227 – (14) – –
Bank overdrafts (2) (9) 2 9 – –
Net debt classifications 7,702 9,298 (2,106) (2,490) (15,740) (15,150)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Disposal group balances are shown within ‘Assets classified as held for sale’ and ‘Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale’ on the balance sheet.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CASH FLOW STATEMENT, NET DEBT AND RELATED NOTES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 183
Financial statements
24. NET DEBT continued
b) Movement in net debt
US$ million
Cash 
and cash
equivalents
Short term 
borrowings
Medium and 
long term 
borrowings
Net debt 
excluding 
derivatives
Derivatives 
hedging  
net debt
Net debt  
including 
derivatives
At 1 January 2012 11,732 (1,018) (11,855) (1,141) (233) (1,374)
Adoption of new standards
(1)
(20) 116 – 96 – 96
At 1 January 2012 (restated) 11,712 (902) (11,855) (1,045) (233) (1,278)
Cash flow (2,304) 747 (5,633) (7,190) (149) (7,339)
Unwinding of discount on convertible bond – – (25) (25) – (25)
Conversion of convertible bond – – 1,507 1,507 – 1,507
Acquired through business combinations – (3) (1,578) (1,581) (15) (1,596)
Disposal of businesses – 53 228 281 – 281
Reclassifications – (2,396) 2,396 – – –
Movement in fair value – 2 (198) (196) 229 33
Other non-cash movements – – (21) (21) – (21)
Currency movements (110) 9 29 (72) – (72)
At 31 December 2012 (restated) 9,298 (2,490) (15,150) (8,342) (168) (8,510)
Cash flow (1,235)  2,307 (3,279) (2,207) (181) (2,388) 
Disposal of businesses –  69  –  69  –  69 
Reclassifications – (2,084) 2,084 –  –  – 
Movement in fair value –  24  521  545 (155)  390 
Other non-cash movements – (5) (39) (44)  – (44) 
Currency movements (361)  73  123 (165) (4) (169) 
At 31 December 2013 7,702 (2,106) (15,740) (10,144) (508) (10,652) 
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
c) Net debt by segment
The Group’s policy is to hold the majority of its cash and borrowings at the corporate centre. Business units may from time to time raise borrowings in 
connection with specific capital projects, and subsidiaries with non-controlling interests have borrowings which are without recourse to the Group. Other than 
the impact of South African exchange controls (see note 24d below), there are no significant restrictions over the Group’s ability to access these cash balances 
or repay these borrowings. Net debt by segment is stated after elimination of inter-segment balances and includes related hedges. Net debt in disposal groups 
is part of total net debt but not allocated to segments.
US$ million 2013
2012 
restated
(1)
Iron Ore and Manganese (1,413) (996)
Metallurgical Coal 218 510
Thermal Coal (49) (32)
Copper 531 775
Nickel (398) (477)
Niobium and Phosphates 68 18
Platinum (50) (98)
Diamonds (311) (839)
Other Mining and Industrial 33 16
Exploration 4 8
Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs (9,285) (7,608)
(10,652) (8,723)
Net cash in disposal groups – 213
(10,652) (8,510)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details. 
d) South Africa net debt
The Group operates in South Africa where the existence of exchange controls may restrict the use of certain cash balances. The Group therefore monitors the 
cash and debt associated with these operations separately. These restrictions are not expected to have a material effect on the Group’s ability to meet its 
ongoing obligations. Below is a breakdown of net debt in South Africa.
US$ million 2013 2012
Cash and cash equivalents 2,247 1,893
Short term borrowings (512) (373)
Medium and long term borrowings (1,000) (1,754)
Net cash/(debt) excluding derivatives 735 (234)
Derivatives hedging net debt 4 31
Net cash/(debt) including derivatives 739 (203)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CASH FLOW STATEMENT, NET DEBT AND RELATED NOTES 184 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
25. BORROWINGS
See note 40o for the Group’s accounting policy on convertible debt and bank borrowings.
The Group accesses borrowings mostly in capital markets through bonds issued under the Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme, the South African 
Domestic Medium Term Note (DMTN) programme, through accessing the United States (US) bond markets, and this year through bonds issued under the 
Australian Medium Term Note (AMTN) programme. The Group uses interest rate and cross currency swaps to ensure that the majority of the Group’s 
borrowings are floating rate US dollar denominated.
During 2013, the Group issued corporate bonds with a US$ equivalent value of $3.5 billion. These included €750 million 2.5% guaranteed notes due 2021, 
€900 million 1.75% guaranteed notes due 2017, and €600 million 2.875% guaranteed notes due 2020 issued under the EMTN programme, and 
AUD500 million 5.75% guaranteed notes due 2018 issued under the AMTN programme.
An analysis of borrowings, as presented on the Consolidated balance sheet, is set out below: 
2013
2012
restated
(1)
US$ million
Short term 
borrowings
Medium and 
long term 
borrowings
Total 
borrowings
Contractual 
repayment at 
hedged rates
Short term 
borrowings
Medium and 
long term 
borrowings
Total 
borrowings
Contractual 
repayment at 
hedged rates
Secured
Bank loans and overdrafts
(2)
 9  32  41  41 5 21 26 26
Obligations under finance leases
(3)
 7  49  56  56 3 19 22 22
 16  81  97  97 8 40 48 48
Unsecured
Bank loans and overdrafts 433  2,003  2,436  2,467 251 2,871 3,122 3,141
Bonds issued under EMTN programme
4.25% €750m bond due September 2013 –  –  –  – 994 – 994 1,109
5.875% €1,000m bond due April 2015 –  1,445  1,445  1,577 – 1,432 1,432 1,577
4.375% €750m bond due December 2016 –  1,098  1,098  1,122 – 1,080 1,080 1,122
1.75% €900m bond due November 2017 –  1,206  1,206  1,211 – – – –
6.875% £400m bond due May 2018 –  747  747  793 – 785 785 793
2.5% €750m bond due September 2018 –  1,029  1,029  959 – 1,002 1,002 959
1.028% JPY10,000m bond due December 2018 –  95  95  97 – – – –
2.75% €750m bond due June 2019 –  1,039  1,039  941 – 1,018 1,018 941
2.875% €600m bond due November 2020 –  787  787  807 – – – –
2.5% €750m bond due April 2021 –  987  987  977 – – – –
3.5% €750m bond due March 2022 –  1,065  1,065  992 – 1,065 1,065 992
US bonds
2.15% $750m bond due September 2013 –  –  –  – 767 – 767 750
9.375% $1,250m bond due April 2014 1,256  –  1,256  1,250 – 1,279 1,279 1,250
2.625% $600m bond due April 2017 –  605  605  600 – 614 614 600
2.625% $750m bond due September 2017 –  733  733  750 – 739 739 750
9.375% $750m bond due April 2019 –  807  807  750 – 853 853 750
4.45% $500m bond due September 2020 –  509  509  500 – 547 547 500
4.125% $600m bond due September 2022 –  540  540  600 – 596 596 600
Bonds issued under AMTN programme
5.75% AUD500m bond due November 2018 –  440  440  470 – – – –
Bonds issued under DMTN programme
9.77% R1,000m bond due May 2015 –  98  98  95 – 126 126 118
JIBAR +0.5% R200m bond due March 2016 –  19  19  19 – 24 24 24
JIBAR +1.38% R600m bond due March 2017 –  57  57  57 – 71 71 71
9.27% R1,400m bond due March 2019 –  133  133  133 – 177 177 165
Other loans 403  217  620  621 465 831 1,296 1,282
 2,092  15,659  17,751  17,788 2,477 15,110 17,587 17,494
Total borrowings 2,108  15,740  17,848  17,885 2,485 15,150 17,635 17,542
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Assets with a book value of $56 million (2012: $49 million) have been pledged as security, of which $30 million (2012: $35 million) are property, plant and equipment, $22 million  
(2012: $10 million) are financial assets and $4 million (2012: $4 million) are inventories. Related to these assets are borrowings of $41 million (2012: $26 million).
(3) 
Details of assets held under finance leases are provided in note 12.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CASH FLOW STATEMENT, NET DEBT AND RELATED NOTES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 185
Financial statements
25. BORROWINGS continued
Liquidity risk
The Group ensures that there are sufficient committed loan facilities (including refinancing, where necessary) in order to meet short term business 
requirements, after taking into account cash flows from operations and its holding of cash and cash equivalents, as well as any Group distribution restrictions 
that exist. In addition, certain projects are financed by means of limited recourse project finance, if appropriate.
The expected undiscounted cash flows of the Group’s net debt related and other financial liabilities, by remaining contractual maturity, based on conditions 
existing at the balance sheet date are as follows:
2013
Net debt related financial liabilities
US$ million Borrowings
Expected  
future interest 
payments
Derivatives  
hedging  
net debt
Other 
financial 
liabilities Total
Amount due for repayment within one year (2,098) (762)  245 (4,204) (6,819) 
Greater than one year, less than two years (1,903) (720)  19  – (2,604) 
Greater than two years, less than three years (1,532) (540)  67  – (2,005) 
Greater than three years, less than four years (2,872) (470)  165  – (3,177) 
Greater than four years, less than five years (2,642) (417)  58  – (3,001) 
Greater than five years (6,580) (581)  476  – (6,685) 
Total due for repayment after more than one year (15,529) (2,728)  785  – (17,472) 
Total (17,627) (3,490)  1,030 (4,204) (24,291) 
2012
restated
(1)
Net debt related financial liabilities
US$ million Borrowings
Expected  
future interest 
payments
Derivatives  
hedging  
net debt
Other  
financial 
liabilities Total
Amount due for repayment within one year (2,467) (807) 103 (4,410) (7,581)
Greater than one year, less than two years (2,336) (656) 205 – (2,787)
Greater than two years, less than three years (2,798) (540) (66) – (3,404)
Greater than three years, less than four years (1,376) (406) – – (1,782)
Greater than four years, less than five years (1,572) (336) 109 – (1,799)
Greater than five years (7,695) (686) 182 – (8,199)
Total due for repayment after more than one year (15,777) (2,624) 430 – (17,971)
Total (18,244) (3,431) 533 (4,410) (25,552)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 December:
US$ million 2013 2012
Expiry date
Within one year
(1)
 1,318 2,923
Greater than one year, less than two years 637 569
Greater than two years, less than three years 1,449 3,612
Greater than three years, less than four years – 2,153
Greater than four years, less than five years 5,847 –
Greater than five years  – –
 9,251 9,257
(1)  
Includes undrawn rand facilities equivalent to $1.2 billion (2012: $1.5 billion) in respect of facilities with 364 day maturity which roll automatically on a daily basis, unless notice is served.
In March 2013 the Group replaced a $3.5 billion credit facility maturing in July 2015 with a $5 billion credit facility maturing in March 2018. At the same time the 
$2 billion multi-currency credit facility within the Diamond segment was repaid and cancelled.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders 
and benefits for other stakeholders and, with cognisance of forecast future market conditions and structuring, to maintain an optimal capital structure to 
reduce the cost of capital.
In order to manage the short and long term capital structure, the Group adjusts the amount of ordinary dividends paid to shareholders, returns capital to 
shareholders (via, for example, share buybacks and special dividends), arranges debt to fund new acquisitions and may also sell non-core assets to reduce debt.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the ratio of net debt to total capital (gearing). Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash 
equivalents (including derivatives which provide an economic hedge of debt and the net debt of disposal groups). Total capital is calculated as ‘Net assets’  
(as shown in the Consolidated balance sheet) excluding net debt. Total capital and gearing are as follows:
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Net assets 37,364 43,738
Net debt including related derivatives (note 24) 10,652 8,510
Total capital 48,016 52,248
Gearing 22.2% 16.3%
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
The increase in gearing since 31 December 2012 reflects the $2.1 billion increase in net debt in the year. Net assets at 31 December 2013 were $6.4 billion 
lower than at 31 December 2012 due to net movements in equity including currency translation adjustments, dividends and retained earnings in the year. 
Management believes that gearing levels remain at a sustainable level given the Group’s strong level of operating cash flows.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CASH FLOW STATEMENT, NET DEBT AND RELATED NOTES 186 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
25. BORROWINGS continued 
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that financial instrument fair values will fluctuate due to changes in market prices. The Group uses net debt to manage the Group’s 
interest rate risks and foreign exchange risks on borrowings and cash. In relation to net debt, the Group manages its exposure with the use of cross currency 
swaps and interest rate swaps in order to ensure that the majority of borrowings are floating rate US dollar denominated. The Group does not hedge foreign 
exchange exposures on rand denominated borrowings in South Africa. For more information regarding the Group’s financial risk management see note 39.
The Group’s exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks has been re-presented to match more closely the way in which the Group manages its 
exposure to these risks. Comparatives have been reclassified to align with current year presentation.
The table below reflects the exposure of the Group’s net debt to currency and interest rate risk.
2013
US$ million
Cash  
and cash 
equivalents
Floating  
rate 
borrowings
Fixed  
rate 
borrowings
Non-interest 
bearing 
borrowings
Derivatives 
hedging  
net debt
Net debt  
in disposal 
groups
Impact of 
currency 
derivatives Total
US dollar 5,460 (942) (4,477)  – (510)  – (11,257) (11,726) 
Euro 22  – (8,656)  –  –  –  8,656  22 
Rand 1,225 (890) (231) (7)  2  –  –  99 
Brazilian real 716 (1,319) (2)  –  –  –  1,319  714 
Australian dollar 103  – (440)  –  –  –  440  103 
Sterling 41  – (747)  –  –  –  747  41 
Other 135 (25) (106) (4)  –  –  95  95 
Impact of interest derivatives – (14,468)  14,468  –  –  –  –  – 
Total 7,702 (17,644) (191) (11) (508)  –  – (10,652) 
2012
restated
(1)
US$ million
Cash  
and cash 
equivalents
Floating  
rate 
borrowings
Fixed  
rate 
borrowings
Non-interest 
bearing 
borrowings
Derivatives 
hedging 
net debt
Net debt  
in disposal 
groups
Impact of 
currency 
derivatives Total
US dollar 7,588 (1,910) (5,412) – (191) 4 (8,448) (8,369)
Euro 27 – (6,591) – – – 6,591 27
Rand 942 (1,096) (654) (10) 23 – – (795)
Brazilian real 108 (1,072) (2) – – 11 1,072 117
Australian dollar 220 – – – – – – 220
Sterling 18 – (785) – – 198 785 216
Other 168 (94) – – – – – 74
Impact of interest derivatives – (13,135) 13,135 – – – – –
Total 9,071 (17,307) (309) (10) (168) 213 – (8,510)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
26. COMMITMENTS
See note 40x for the Group’s accounting policy on leases.
At 31 December the Group had the following outstanding capital commitments:
US$ million 2013 2012
Contracted but not provided
(1)
3,391 2,330
(1) 
Excludes commitments relating to joint ventures. See note 13 for details.
In addition, the Group had outstanding commitments under contracts relating to shipping services of $1,168 million (2012: $1,033 million). 
At 31 December the Group had the following commitments under non-cancellable operating leases:
US$ million 2013 2012
Expiry date
Within one year 104 154
Greater than one year, less than two years 83 122
Greater than two years, less than five years 145 200
Greater than five years 145 277
 477 753
Operating leases relate principally to land and buildings, vehicles and shipping vessels.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CASH FLOW STATEMENT, NET DEBT AND RELATED NOTES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 187
Financial statements
27. EMPLOYEE NUMBERS AND COSTS
The average number of employees, excluding contractors and associates’ and joint ventures’ employees, and including a proportionate share of employees 
within joint operations, was:
Thousand 2013
2012
restated
(1)
By segment
Iron Ore and Manganese 8 8
Metallurgical Coal 3 4
Thermal Coal 8 9
Copper 6 5
Nickel 2 2
Niobium and Phosphates 2 2
Platinum 55 57
Diamonds 10 3
(2)
Other Mining and Industrial 2 13
Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs 2 2
 98 105
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
The average number of employees in Diamonds reflects the acquisition of De Beers from 16 August 2012.
The average number of employees by principal location of employment was:
Thousand 2013
2012
restated
(1)
South Africa 75 82
Other Africa 4 2
South America 11 11
North America 2 1
Australia and Asia 4 3
Europe 2 6
 98 105
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
Payroll costs in respect of the employees included in the tables above were:
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Wages and salaries 4,439 4,511
Social security costs 160 165
Post employment benefits
(2)
 395 377
Share-based payments (note 29) 261 321
Total payroll costs 5,255 5,374
Reconciliation:
Less: employee costs capitalised (265) (246)
Less: employee costs included within special items (156) (107)
Employee costs included in operating costs 4,834 5,021
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Includes contributions to defined contribution pension and medical plans, current and past service costs related to defined benefit pension and medical plans and other benefits provided  
to certain employees during retirement, see note 28.
In accordance with IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (Amended), key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for 
planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any director (executive and non-executive) of the Group.
Compensation for key management was as follows:
US$ million 2013 2012
Salaries and short term employee benefits 30 24
Social security costs 5 3
Termination benefits 11 2
Post employment benefits 4 3
Share-based payments 21 25
71 57
Key management comprises members of the Board and the Group Management Committee. 
Disclosure of directors’ emoluments, pension entitlements, share options and long term incentive plan awards required by the Companies Act 2006 and those 
specified for audit by Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 are 
included in the Remuneration report.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION 188 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
28. RETIREMENT BENEFITS
See note 40t for the Group’s accounting policy on retirement benefits.
The Group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans. It also operates post employment medical plans, principally 
in South Africa. 
Defined contribution plans
The defined contribution pension and medical cost represents the actual contributions payable by the Group to the various plans. At 31 December 2013 there 
were no material outstanding or prepaid contributions and so no accrual or prepayment has been disclosed in the balance sheet in relation to these plans.
The assets of the defined contribution plans are held separately in independently administered funds. The charge in respect of these plans is calculated on the 
basis of the contribution payable by the Group in the financial year. The charge for the year for defined contribution pension plans (net of amounts capitalised) 
was $261 million (2012: $262 million) and for defined contribution medical plans (net of amounts capitalised) was $88 million (2012: $69 million).
Defined benefit pension plans and post employment medical plans
The Group operates defined benefit pension and medical plans across a number of segments. The most significant plans are in South Africa and the 
United Kingdom.
A summary of the movements in the net pension plan assets and retirement benefit obligations on the Consolidated balance sheet is as follows:
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Net liability recognised at 1 January (1,233) (569)
Acquired through business combinations – (889)
Net income statement charge (88) (80)
Remeasurement of net defined benefit obligation 97 190
Employer contributions 151 90
Other (10) 39
Currency movements 70 (14)
Net liability recognised at 31 December (1,013) (1,233)
Amounts recognised as:
Defined benefit pension plans in surplus
(2)
191 176
Retirement benefit obligation – pension plans (727) (828)
Retirement benefit obligation – medical plans (477) (581)
(1,013) (1,233)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Amounts included in ‘Other non-current assets’ on the Consolidated balance sheet.
The majority of the defined benefit pension plans are funded. The assets of these plans are held separately from those of the Group, in independently 
administered funds, in accordance with statutory requirements or local practice in the relevant jurisdiction. The unfunded liabilities are principally in relation 
to termination indemnity plans in Chile. 
The post employment medical plans provide health benefits to retired employees and certain dependants. Eligibility for cover is dependent upon certain 
criteria. The majority of these plans are unfunded, and are principally in South Africa. 
Independent qualified actuaries carry out full valuations at least every three years using the projected unit credit method. The actuaries have updated the 
valuations to 31 December 2013. Assumptions are set after consultation with the qualified actuaries. While management believe the assumptions used are 
appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would impact the Group’s other comprehensive income.
Characteristics and risks of plans
The defined benefit plans expose the Group to actuarial risks such as longevity, investment risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk as well as foreign exchange risk. 
The maturity profile of each plan will vary. The weighted average duration of the South African plans is 12 years (2012: 12 years), United Kingdom plans is 
19 years (2012: 19 years) and plans in other regions is 14 years (2012: 14 years). This represents the average period over which future benefit payments are 
expected to be made. 
Employer contributions are made in accordance with the terms of each plan and vary each year. Employer contributions made in the year were $151 million 
to pension plans and in addition $28 million of benefits were paid in relation to post employment medical plans. The Group expects to contribute $152 million 
to its pension plans and $28 million to its post employment medical plans in 2014.
South Africa
The pension plans in South Africa are in surplus, with the asset recognised on the balance sheet restricted to the amount in the Employer Surplus Account, 
being plan assets less plan liabilities less any contingency reserves as recommended by the funds’ actuaries.
The Employer Surplus Account is the amount that the Group is entitled to by way of refund. All pension plans in South Africa are now closed to new members 
and the majority of plans are closed to future benefit accrual. As the plans are in surplus no employer contributions are currently being made.
The Group’s provision of anti-retroviral therapy to HIV positive staff has not significantly impacted the post employment medical plan liability. 
United Kingdom
The Group operates funded pension plans in the United Kingdom. These plans are now closed to new members and the majority of plans are closed to future 
benefit accrual. 
Certain assets held by the main plans in the United Kingdom are structured to closely match the characteristics of the liabilities through a variety of 
investment strategies, including the use of interest rate swaps and inflation swaps to hedge exposure to interest rate risk and inflation rate risk respectively.
The Group is committed to make payments to certain United Kingdom pension plans under deficit funding plans agreed with the respective Trustees. Where 
the present value of the agreed funding payments exceeds the liability in respect of the plans as measured under IFRS, and would therefore, when paid, give 
rise to a surplus as measured under IFRS, a provision is recognised for any part of that surplus that would not be recoverable. Any resulting surplus has been 
assessed to be fully recoverable and as such no provision has been recognised.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 189
Financial statements
28. RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued
Other
Other pension and post employment medical plans primarily comprise obligations in Chile where legislation requires employers to provide for a termination 
indemnity, entitling employees to a cash payment made on the termination of an employment contract. The features of this provision meet the definition of a 
defined benefit pension obligation under IAS 19R and consequently an unfunded liability is recognised on the Consolidated balance sheet. Other plans are in 
Brazil, Canada and mainland Europe and consist of funded and unfunded pension plans and unfunded medical aid plans. These plans are not considered to be 
significant to the Group.
Actuarial assumptions
The principal assumptions used to determine the actuarial present value of benefit obligations and pension charges and credits under IAS 19R are detailed 
below (shown as weighted averages):
2013 2012
South 
 Africa
United 
Kingdom Other
South 
 Africa
United 
Kingdom Other
Defined benefit pension plans
Average discount rate for plan liabilities 8.8% 4.4% 7.3% 8.1% 4.3% 6.8%
Average rate of inflation 6.4% 3.4% 3.5% 6.3% 2.8% 1.9%
Average rate of increase in salaries 8.3%
(1)
3.4%
(2)
6.6% 8.3% 2.8%
(2)
3.9%
Average rate of increase of pensions in payment 6.4% 3.3% 3.4% 6.3% 3.0% 0.4%
Post employment medical plans
Average discount rate for plan liabilities 8.8% 4.3% 8.1% 8.0% 4.5% 5.7%
Average rate of inflation 6.4% 3.4% 5.7% 6.4% 2.7% 3.9%
Expected average increase in healthcare costs 8.2% 8.1% 8.1% 7.7% 7.5% 7.6%
(1) 
With the exception of De Beers, plans in South Africa have ceased future accrual of benefits.
(2) 
With the exception of De Beers, plans in the United Kingdom have ceased future accrual of benefits but some benefits remain linked to salary increases.
Mortality assumptions are determined based on standard mortality tables with adjustments, as appropriate, to reflect experience of conditions locally. In  
South Africa, the PA90 tables (2012: PA90 tables) are used. The main plans in the United Kingdom use either SAPS tables or Club Vita models with plan 
specific adjustments based on mortality investigations (2012: SAPS tables and Club Vita models). The mortality tables used imply that a male or female aged 
60 at the balance sheet date has the following future life expectancy:
Male Female
Years 2013 2012 2013 2012
South Africa 19.8 20.1 24.6 24.9
United Kingdom 28.7 28.5 30.2 30.1
Other 22.7 23.4 27.0 27.4
Sensitivity analysis
Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of pension and medical plan liabilities are the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality. The sensitivity 
analysis below has been provided by local actuaries on an approximate basis based on changes in the assumptions occurring at the end of the year assuming 
that all other assumptions are held constant and the effect of interrelationships is excluded. The effect on plan liabilities is as follows:
2013
US$ million
South  
Africa
United 
Kingdom Other Total
Discount rate – 0.5% decrease (84) (392) (20) (496) 
Inflation rate
(1)
 – 0.5% increase (81) (199) (13) (293) 
Life expectancy – increase by 1 year (67) (121) (6) (194) 
(1) 
Salary, pension and expected increases in healthcare costs are all functions of inflation. 
Income statement
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated income statement are as follows:
2013
2012 
restated
(1)
US$ million
Pension  
plans
Post 
employment 
medical  
plans Total 
Pension 
plans
Post 
employment 
medical  
plans Total 
Amount charged within operating costs 23  4  27 27 4 31
Net charge to net finance costs 25  36  61 21 33 54
Total charge to the income statement 48  40  88 48 37 85
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(1)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION 190 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
28. RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued
Comprehensive income
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows:
2013
2012 
restated
(1)
US$ million
Pension  
plans
Post 
employment 
medical  
plans Total 
Pension 
plans
Post 
employment 
medical  
plans Total 
Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 146  –  146 176 – 176
Actuarial gains/(losses) on plan liabilities
(2)
 8 17 25 66 (35) 31
Movement in surplus restriction (74)  – (74) (17) – (17)
Remeasurement of net defined benefit obligation 80  17  97 225 (35) 190
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Actuarial gains/(losses) on plan liabilities comprise gains/(losses) from changes in financial and demographic assumptions as well as experience on plan liabilities, none of which are 
individually material.
Pension plan assets and liabilities by geography
The split of the present value of funded and unfunded obligations in defined benefit pension plans and the fair value of pension assets at 31 December is 
as follows:
2013
2012
restated
(1)
US$ million
South 
 Africa
United  
Kingdom Other Total
South 
 Africa
United 
Kingdom Other Total
Equity 515  1,232  14  1,761 652 1,150 11 1,813
Corporate bonds –  817  51  868 262 616 34 912
Government bonds 936  1,189  62  2,187 815 989 99 1,903
Cash 74  211  1  286 66 385 1 452
Other 41  166 6 213 50 194 3 247
Fair value of pension plan assets
(2)
 1,566  3,615  134  5,315  1,845  3,334  148  5,327 
Active members (11) (252) (38) (301) (14) (226) (45) (285)
Deferred members (36) (1,494) (16) (1,546) (53) (1,395) (7) (1,455)
Pensioners (1,183) (2,334) (93) (3,610) (1,522) (2,273) (112) (3,907)
Present value of funded obligations (1,230) (4,080) (147) (5,457)  (1,589)  (3,894)  (164)  (5,647) 
Present value of unfunded obligations
(3)
 –  – (217) (217) – – (215)  (215) 
Net surplus/(deficit) in pension plans 336 (465) (230) (359) 256 (560) (231) (535)
Surplus restriction (177)  –  – (177) (80) (37) – (117)
Recognised retirement benefit  
assets/(liabilities) 159 (465) (230) (536) 176 (597) (231) (652)
Amounts in the Consolidated balance sheet
Defined benefit pension plans in surplus 159  32  –  191 176 – – 176
Retirement benefit obligation – pension plans – (497) (230) (727) – (597) (231) (828)
159 (465) (230) (536) 176 (597) (231) (652)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
The fair value of assets is used to determine the funding level of the plans. The fair value of the assets of the funded plans was sufficient to cover 97% (2012: 94%) of the benefits that  
had accrued to members after allowing for expected increases in future earnings and pensions.
(3) 
Includes $200 million (2012: $196 million) relating to active members.
All investments have been fair valued based on quoted market prices.
Movement analysis
The changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
2013
2012 
restated
(1)
US$ million
Pension  
plans
Post 
employment 
medical  
plans Total 
Pension  
plans
Post 
employment 
medical  
plans Total 
At 1 January 5,327  21  5,348 2,583 22 2,605
Acquired through business combinations
(2)
 –  –  – 2,417 – 2,417
Effects of settlements (3)  – (3) (50) – (50)
Interest income 269
(3)
 1  270 175
(3)
1 176
Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 146
(3)
  –  146 176
(3)
– 176
Contributions paid by employer 151  –  151 90 – 90
Benefits paid (253) (1) (254) (151) (1) (152)
Contributions paid by plan participants 2  –  2 1 – 1
Refund of surplus
(5)
(26)  – (26) – – –
Currency movements (298) (4) (302) 86 (1) 85
At 31 December 5,315  17  5,332 5,327 21 5,348
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Following the Group’s acquisition of De Beers on 16 August 2012, the Group consolidated the defined benefit pension and post employment medical plans of De Beers.
(3) 
The actual return on assets in respect of pension plans was $415 million (2012: $351 million).
(4)  
Includes $11 million of benefits paid to defined contribution plans.
(5) 
The refund of $26 million represents a refund of surplus plan assets as agreed with the pension plan Trustees. These funds relate to plans in South Africa and will be used to make future 
contributions to post employment medical plans. The refund is included within ‘Other non-current assets’ on the Consolidated balance sheet.
(4)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 191
Financial statements
28. RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued
The changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows:
2013
2012 
restated
(1)
US$ million
Pension  
plans
Post 
employment 
medical  
plans Total 
Pension  
plans
Post 
employment 
medical  
plans Total 
At 1 January (5,862) (602) (6,464) (2,792) (309) (3,101)
Acquired through business combinations
(2)
 –  –  – (2,974) (302) (3,276)
Current service costs (23) (4) (27) (18) (3) (21)
Effects of settlements 3  –  3 41 – 41
Interest cost (294) (37) (331) (196) (30) (226)
Actuarial gains/(losses) 8 17 25 66 (35) 31
Benefits paid 242  28  270 151 24 175
Contributions paid by plan participants (2)  – (2) (1) – (1)
Transfer to liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale –  –  – – 39 39
Currency movements 254  104  358 (139) 14 (125)
At 31 December (5,674) (494) (6,168) (5,862) (602) (6,464)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Following the Group’s acquisition of De Beers on 16 August 2012, the Group consolidated the defined benefit pension and post employment medical plans of De Beers.
(3) 
Movements in post employment medical plans exclude movements within the obligations transferred to held for sale.
29. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
See note 40u for the Group’s accounting policies on share-based payments.
During the year ended 31 December 2013 the Group had share-based payment arrangements with employees relating to shares of the Company, the details 
of which are described in the Remuneration report. All of these Company schemes are equity settled, either by award of ordinary shares (BSP, LTIP and SIP) 
or award of options to acquire ordinary shares (ESOS, DOP and SAYE). The ESOS is now closed to new participants, having been replaced with the BSP. No 
options have been granted under the DOP.
The total share-based payment charge relating to Anglo American plc shares for the year is split as follows:
US$ million 2013 2012
BSP 82 103
LTIP 52 46
Other schemes 10 8
Share-based payment charge relating to Anglo American plc shares
(1)
 144 157
(1) 
In addition, there are equity settled share-based payment charges of $65 million (2012: $89 million) relating to Kumba Iron Ore Limited shares and $52 million (2012: $72 million)  
relating to Anglo American Platinum Limited shares. Certain business units also operate cash settled employee share-based payment schemes. These schemes had a net charge of nil  
(2012: charge of $3 million). 
Schemes settled by award of ordinary shares
The fair value of ordinary shares awarded under the BSP, LTIP and LTIP – AOSC, being the more material share schemes, was calculated using a Black 
Scholes model. The fair value of shares awarded under the LTIP – TSR scheme was calculated using a Monte Carlo model. The assumptions used in these 
calculations are set out below: 
2013 2012
Arrangement
(1)
BSP LTIP LTIP – AOSC LTIP – TSR BSP LTIP LTIP – AOSC LTIP – TSR
Date of grant 01/03/13 01/03/13 01/03/13 01/03/13 02/03/12 02/03/12 02/03/12 02/03/12
Number of instruments 4,830,179  1,285,634  470,561  470,561 4,579,741 1,044,808 329,665 329,665
Share price at the date of grant (£) 19.00  19.00  19.00  19.00 26.41 26.41 26.41 26.41
Contractual life (years) 3  3  3  3 3 3 3 3
Vesting conditions
(2) (3) (4) (5) (2) (3) (4) (5)
Expected volatility 35% 35% 35% 35% 40% 40% 40% 40%
Risk free interest rate 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Expected departures 5% pa  5% pa  5% pa  5% pa 5% pa 5% pa 5% pa 5% pa
Expected outcome of meeting performance 
criteria (at date of grant) 100% 100% 100% n/a 100% 100% 100% n/a
Fair value at date of grant (weighted  
average) (£) 18.55  19.00  19.00  9.31 25.78 26.41 26.41 15.24
(1) 
The number of instruments used in the fair value models may differ from the total number of instruments awarded in the year due to awards made subsequent to the fair value calculations. 
The fair value calculated per the assumptions above has been applied to the total number of awards. The difference in income statement charge is not considered significant. 
(2)  
Three years of continuous employment with enhancement shares having variable vesting based on non-market based performance conditions. 
(3)  
Three years of continuous employment. 
(4)  
Variable vesting dependent on three years of continuous employment and Group AOSC target being achieved. 
(5)  
Variable vesting dependent on three years of continuous employment and market based performance conditions being achieved.
The expected volatility is based on historic volatility over the last five years. The risk free interest rate is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds with 
a term similar to the expected life of the award. 
The charges arising in respect of the other Anglo American plc employee share schemes that the Group operated during the year are not considered material. 
(3)
(3)
(3)
(3)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION 192 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
29. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
The movements in the number of shares for the more significant share-based payment arrangements are as follows:
Bonus Share Plan
(1)
Ordinary shares of 54
86
/ 91 US cents may be awarded under the terms of this scheme for no consideration. 
Number of awards 2013 2012
Outstanding at 1 January 9,656,833 10,106,373
Conditionally awarded in year 4,830,179 4,579,239
Vested in year (2,234,189) (4,264,598)
Forfeited in year (1,381,353) (764,181)
Outstanding at 31 December 10,871,470 9,656,833
(1) 
The BSP was approved by shareholders in 2004 as a replacement for the ESOS. Further information in respect of the BSP, including performance conditions, is shown in the Remuneration report. 
Long Term Incentive Plan
(1)(2)
Ordinary shares of 54
86
/ 91 US cents may be awarded under the terms of this scheme for no consideration. 
Number of awards 2013 2012
Outstanding at 1 January 3,985,771 3,720,535
Conditionally awarded in year 2,226,755 1,704,138
Vested in year (901,610) (1,060,822)
Forfeited in year (548,705) (378,080)
Outstanding at 31 December 4,762,211 3,985,771
(1) 
The early vesting of share awards is permitted at the discretion of the Company upon, inter alia, termination of employment, ill health or death. 
(2) 
The LTIP awards are contingent on pre-established performance criteria being met. Further information in respect of this scheme is shown in the Remuneration report.
Schemes settled by award of options
The fair value of options granted under the SAYE scheme, being the only material option scheme, was calculated using a Black Scholes model. The 
assumptions used in these calculations for the current and prior year are set out in the table below: 
Arrangement
(1)
2013 SAYE 2012 SAYE
Date of grant 19/04/13 20/04/12
Number of instruments  87,224 245,790
Exercise price (£)  13.84 19.68
Share price at the date of grant (£) 15.97 23.49
Contractual life (years)  3.5-5.5 3.5-7.5
Vesting conditions
(2)
 3-5 3-7
Expected volatility 35% 40%
Expected option life (years)  3.5-5.5 3.5-7.5
Risk free interest rate (weighted average) 0.5% 0.9%
Expected departures 5% pa 5% pa
Fair value per option granted (weighted average) (£)  4.53 6.14
(1) 
The number of instruments used in the fair value models may differ from the total number of instruments awarded in the year due to awards made subsequent to the fair value calculations.  
The fair value calculated per the assumptions above has been applied to the total number of awards. The difference in income statement charge is not considered significant. 
(2) 
Number of years of continuous employment. 
The expected volatility is based on historic volatility over the last five years. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free interest 
rate is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds with a term similar to the expected life of the option. 
A reconciliation of option movements for the more significant share-based payment arrangements over the year to 31 December 2013 and the prior year  
is shown below. All options outstanding at 31 December 2013 with an exercise date on or prior to 31 December 2013 are deemed exercisable. Options were 
exercised regularly during the year and the weighted average share price for the year ended 31 December 2013 was £15.79 (2012: £21.43). 
SAYE Share Option Scheme
(1)
Options to acquire ordinary shares of 54
86
/ 91 US cents were outstanding under the terms of this scheme as follows:
2013 2012
Number
of options
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price £
Number
of options
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price £
Outstanding at 1 January 1,048,504  16.26 1,520,677 12.91
Granted in year 87,224  13.84 245,790 24.60
Exercised in year (366,319)  9.88 (589,299) 10.11
Forfeited in year (560,693)  20.76 (128,664) 20.86
Outstanding at 31 December 208,716  14.36 1,048,504 16.26
(1) 
The early exercise of share options is permitted at the discretion of the Company upon, inter alia, termination of employment, ill health or death.
Options outstanding at 31 December 2013 have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.9 years (2012: 1.8 years) and an exercise price range  
of £9.56 – £25.47 (2012: £9.56 – £25.47).
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 193
Financial statements
29. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
Executive Share Option Scheme
(1)
Options to acquire ordinary shares of 54
86
/ 91 US cents were outstanding under the terms of this scheme as follows:
2013 2012
Number
of options
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price £
Number
of options
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price £
Outstanding at 1 January 1,634,797  11.64 2,500,107 11.42
Exercised in year (760,114)  9.72 (809,259) 10.83
Forfeited in year (29,000)  11.07 (56,051) 13.42
Outstanding at 31 December 845,683  13.39 1,634,797 11.64
(1) 
Closed to new participants. The early exercise of share options is permitted at the discretion of the Company upon, inter alia, termination of employment, ill health or death.
Options outstanding at 31 December 2013 have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.2 years (2012: 0.7 years) and an exercise price range  
of £11.52 – £13.43 (2012: £9.28 – £13.43).
30. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND FORMATION OF JOINT VENTURES
See note 40d for the Group’s accounting policy on business combinations and goodwill arising thereon.
2013
Lafarge Tarmac transaction
On 18 February 2011 the Group announced an agreement with Lafarge SA (Lafarge) to combine their cement, aggregates, ready-mix concrete, asphalt  
and asphalt surfacing, maintenance services and waste services businesses in the United Kingdom, forming a 50:50 joint venture. 
In May 2012 the Competition Commission approved the formation of the joint venture subject to a number of conditions being met. In July 2012 the Group 
accepted the conditions of the Competition Commission and consequently the associated Tarmac Quarry Materials assets were classified as held for sale  
and measured at fair value less costs to sell. 
On 7 January 2013 the Group announced the completion of the 50:50 joint venture. At the same time, and pursuant to the Competition Commission’s 
conditions precedent to the formation of the joint venture, the Group completed the sale of certain of Tarmac Quarry Materials’ operations for consideration  
of $196 million to Mittal Investments. The agreed sale of Tarmac Quarry Materials’ 50% ownership interest in Midland Quarry Products was subject to a right  
of pre-emption in favour of Hanson Quarry Products Europe Limited (Hanson), who exercised their right in April 2013.
The main accounting effects of the transaction are set out below:
 • At 31 December 2012 the assets and liabilities of Tarmac Quarry Materials were presented separately in the Consolidated balance sheet, within ‘Assets held 
for sale’ and ‘Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale’.
 • During the first half of 2013 the Group disposed of its interests in Tarmac Quarry Materials in exchange for a 50% interest in the newly formed joint venture, 
plus cash, deferred consideration and contingent consideration receivable for the operations that were sold to Mittal Investments and Hanson.
This resulted in derecognition of all assets and liabilities relating to the Tarmac Quarry Materials operations and recognition of an investment in the Lafarge 
Tarmac joint venture (included in ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’ on the Consolidated balance sheet). The Group’s retained interest in the assets 
and liabilities of Tarmac Quarry Materials was included at the pre-transaction carrying amount. The Group’s share of the Lafarge business, acquired through its 
new interest in the Lafarge Tarmac joint venture, was accounted for at fair value. The difference between the fair value of the acquired share of the Lafarge 
business and the fair value of the acquired share of its identifiable net assets was recognised as goodwill. 
The fair values of the Lafarge identifiable net assets acquired and of the Lafarge Tarmac joint venture as a whole, were determined primarily by reference to 
the present value of future income streams expected to be generated by the assets, and to market prices achieved for comparable assets. Where appropriate, 
certain assets were valued using a depreciated replacement cost approach. Fair values recognised on acquisition were provisional at 30 June 2013 and are 
final at 31 December 2013.
The net assets derecognised, the proceeds and the resulting loss on disposal were as follows:
US$ million 2013
Intangible assets 417 
Property, plant and equipment 1,642 
Other non-current assets 11 
Current assets excluding cash 400 
Total assets classified as held for sale 2,470 
Current liabilities (400) 
Non-current liabilities (262) 
Total liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale (662) 
Net assets derecognised 1,808 
Exchanged for:
50% interest in Lafarge Tarmac joint venture 1,658 
Cash (net of cash derecognised
(1)
) 70 
Deferred and contingent consideration 87 
  1,815 
Net gain arising 7 
Less: cumulative translation loss recycled from reserves (62) 
Net loss on disposal (55) 
(1) 
Cash derecognised in the transaction was $39 million. In addition, transaction costs of $22 million, accrued in 2012, were paid in the year, resulting in a net cash inflow of $48 million.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GROUP STRUCTURE AND TRANSACTIONS 194 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
30. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND FORMATION OF JOINT VENTURES continued
The Group’s share of the net assets of the joint venture (included in ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’ on the Consolidated balance sheet), based 
on final fair values at the date of acquisition, was as follows: 
2013
Retained 
share in 
Tarmac 
Quarry 
Materials
Acquired 
share of 
Lafarge 
business
Joint venture 
net assets
US$ million Book values Fair values Total
Property, plant and equipment 721  560  1,281 
Other non-current assets 6  8  14 
Current assets 247  246  493 
Net assets classified as held for sale 28 – 28 
Current liabilities (266) (239) (505) 
Non-current liabilities (120) (81) (201) 
Net identifiable assets 616  494  1,110 
Goodwill 202  346  548 
Investment in joint venture
(1)
 818  840  1,658 
(1) 
Included within the Other Mining and Industrial segment.
Goodwill of $548 million within the investment comprised $202 million of pre-existing goodwill relating to the retained interest in the Tarmac Quarry Materials 
business, and $346 million of goodwill relating to the formation of the new joint venture. The latter portion relates in part to synergies expected to be realised 
through the combination of the two businesses, and also includes $26 million associated with the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability based on  
the difference between the fair value of the assets acquired and their tax bases.
2012 
De Beers
On 16 August 2012 Anglo American acquired an additional 40% of the share capital of De Beers Société Anonyme (De Beers) to bring its total shareholding 
to 85%. De Beers is a leading diamond company with expertise in the exploration, mining and marketing of diamonds.
The Group funded the acquisition by way of cash consideration of $5.2 billion, less cash acquired of $0.4 billion. The acquisition has been accounted for as 
a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting with an effective date of 16 August 2012, being the date the Group gained control of 
De Beers.
Goodwill recognised on acquisition, of $2,355 million, arose principally from the significant synergies associated with the Group having control of De Beers, 
the value associated with the De Beers workforce and the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability calculated as the difference between the tax effect 
of the fair value of the assets acquired and their tax bases. No goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GROUP STRUCTURE AND TRANSACTIONS  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 195
Financial statements
31. DISPOSALS OF SUBSIDIARIES
US$ million 2013 2012
Net assets disposed  
Property, plant and equipment  214 208 
Other non-current assets 5 65 
Current assets 323 347 
Current liabilities (296) (187)
Non-current liabilities (61) (273)
Net assets prior to completion
(1)
 185 160 
Fair value of indemnities provided and risks retained by Anglo American on sale 100 –
Non-controlling interests – (5)
Net assets disposed 285 155 
Cumulative translation loss/(gain) recycled from reserves 11 (6) 
Other (credits)/charges (3) 2
Net loss on disposal
(2)
(129) (21)
Net consideration for equity interest 164 130
Less:
Net cash and cash equivalents disposed (11) (38) 
Purchase of insurance claims for cash (168) –
Deferred contingent consideration at fair value (30) –
Accrued transaction fees and similar items – 8
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from disposals (45) 100
(1) 
These net assets were included within ‘Assets classified as held for sale’ and ‘Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale’. In 2013 current liabilities included intercompany 
debt due to Anglo American. The net assets do not include the insurance claims which were purchased by the Group for cash consideration of $168 million.
(2) 
Included in non-operating special items, see note 6. The total net loss on disposal of Amapá of $175 million also includes a $46 million impairment recognised in the six months ending 
30 June 2013.
Disposal of Amapá 
On 28 December 2012 Anglo American and Cliffs Natural Resources (Cliffs) agreed to sell their respective 70% and 30% interests in the Amapá iron ore 
system, including the mine, the rail infrastructure and the port of Santana, to Zamin Ferrous Limited (Zamin). Amapá was classified as held for sale as at 
31 December 2012.
On 28 March 2013 an incident occurred which resulted in the tragic loss of four lives with a further two people still missing, as well as the total loss of the port 
operation. A detailed investigation into the causes of the incident has been undertaken and the results have been passed on to Amapá’s insurers. 
In light of the incident at the port, Anglo American entered into further discussions with Cliffs and Zamin. On 25 September 2013 the Group announced that it 
had entered into an agreement with Cliffs to acquire its 30% interest in Amapá and had agreed to amend its sale agreement with Zamin to reflect, inter alia, 
Anglo American’s disposal of a 100% interest in Amapá to Zamin. These transactions completed on 1 November 2013.
Consideration of $164 million from Zamin comprised:
 • $134 million in cash (net of certain adjustments at completion). A potential adjustment of up to an additional $25 million is subject to the outcome of certain 
rulings in respect of the port reconstruction; and 
 • conditional deferred consideration of up to a maximum of $130 million in total, payable over a five year period and calculated on the basis of the market price 
for iron ore. The estimated fair value of this consideration was $30 million.
Anglo American assumed responsibility for, and the risks and rewards of, certain insurance claims including those relating to the port incident, through the 
purchase of the claims from Amapá at the full claim value of $168 million. 
After the transaction the Group continued to recognise a deferred consideration asset, an insurance receivable and certain retained liabilities.
The valuation of the amounts receivable and the retained liabilities incorporates estimates, particularly in relation to the likely value of conditional deferred 
consideration receivable and the fair value of the insurance claims acquired from Amapá. These estimates are based on assumptions about future events and 
conditions which are considered appropriate based on the information available. Reasonable changes in these assumptions would not result in a material 
change in the loss on disposal.
Disposal proceeds in 2013
In addition to the net cash outflow of $45 million on disposal of Amapá, there was a net cash inflow of $48 million in respect of the formation of the Lafarge 
Tarmac joint venture (Other Mining and Industrial segment, see note 30), a cash inflow of $44 million relating to deferred proceeds in respect of undeveloped 
coal assets in Australia which the Group disposed of in 2010 (Metallurgical Coal segment), a further $30 million cash payment in respect of liabilities assumed 
as part of the Amapá disposal and payments of $4 million in respect of transaction fees accrued in prior years. This resulted in a net cash inflow on disposal of 
subsidiaries, net of cash disposed, of $13 million for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Disposals in 2012
Disposals during 2012 relate to the disposal of Scaw South Africa and related companies in the Other Mining and Industrial segment.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GROUP STRUCTURE AND TRANSACTIONS 196 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
32. NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS
Non-controlling interests that are material to the Group relate to the following subsidiaries:
 • Kumba Iron Ore Limited (Kumba Iron Ore), which is a company incorporated in South Africa and listed on the JSE. Its principal mining operations are the 
Sishen, Kolomela and Thabazimbi iron ore mines which are located in South Africa. Non-controlling interests hold an effective 46.3% interest in the 
operations of Kumba Iron Ore, comprising the 30.3% interest held by other shareholders in Kumba Iron Ore and the 23% of Kumba Iron Ore’s principal 
operating subsidiary, Sishen Iron Ore Company Proprietary Limited that is held by shareholders outside the Group.
 • Anglo American Sur SA (Anglo American Sur), which is a company incorporated in Chile. Its principal operations are the Los Bronces and El Soldado copper 
mines and the Chagres smelting plant, which are located in Chile. Non-controlling interests hold a 49.9% interest in Anglo American Sur.
2013 2012
US$ million
Kumba  
Iron Ore
Anglo 
American Sur Other
(1)
Total
Kumba  
Iron Ore
Anglo 
American Sur
(2)
Other
(1)
Total
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 991  439 (43)  1,387 975 317 (386) 906
Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 1,185  2,060  2,448  5,693 1,049 2,194 2,884 6,127
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (663) (474) (22) (1,159) (1,120) (100) (47) (1,267)
(1) 
Other consists of remaining individually immaterial non-controlling interests. 
(2) 
At 1 January 2012 the Group held 75.5% of Anglo American Sur. In August 2012 the Group sold a further 24.5% of its interest in this company.
Summarised financial information on a 100% basis and before inter-company eliminations for Kumba Iron Ore and Anglo American Sur is as follows: 
2013 2012
US$ million
Kumba  
Iron Ore
Anglo 
American Sur
Kumba  
Iron Ore
Anglo 
American Sur
Non-current assets 3,200  4,854 3,419 4,962
Current assets 1,233  1,111 1,204 1,552
Current liabilities (516) (1,004) (698) (832)
Non-current liabilities (1,190) (832) (1,423) (1,285)
Net assets 2,727  4,129 2,502 4,397
Revenue 5,643  3,296 5,571 3,186
Profit for the financial year 2,103  880 2,017 957
Total comprehensive income 1,626  880 2,028 957
Net cash inflow from operating activities 2,501  1,306 2,421 1,442
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries
The effect of changes in ownership interests on equity attributable to shareholders of the Company that did not result in a change in control is as follows:
2013 2012
US$ million
Equity 
attributable 
to 
shareholders 
of the 
Company
Non-
controlling 
interests Total
Equity 
attributable  
to 
shareholders 
of the 
Company
Non-
controlling 
interests Total
Sale of non-controlling interest in Anglo American Sur – – – 420 1,034 1,454
Purchase of additional shares in Kumba Iron Ore – – – (631) (59) (690)
Other 38 (14) 24 (8) (5) (13)
Total 38 (14) 24 (219) 970 751
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GROUP STRUCTURE AND TRANSACTIONS  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 197
Financial statements
33. CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL AND CONSOLIDATED EQUITY ANALYSIS
Called-up share capital
2013 2012
Number of shares US$ million Number of shares US$ million
Called-up, allotted and fully paid:
5% cumulative preference shares of £1 each 50,000 – 50,000 –
Ordinary shares of 54
86
/ 91 US cents each:
At 1 January 1,405,459,753  772 1,342,967,458 738
Allotted during the year 5,579 – 62,492,295 34
At 31 December 1,405,465,332  772 1,405,459,753 772
During 2013, 5,579 ordinary shares of 54
86
/ 91 US cents each were allotted to certain non-executive directors by subscription of their post-tax directors’ fees 
(2012: 8,354 ordinary shares). In 2012, 62,483,941 ordinary shares of 54
86
/ 91 US cents each were allotted upon the conversion of Anglo American plc 
convertible bonds.
Excluding shares held in treasury (but including the shares held by the Group in other structures, as outlined in the Tenon and Employee benefit trust sections  
below) the number and carrying value of called-up, allotted and fully paid ordinary shares as at 31 December 2013 was 1,394,149,340 and $766 million 
(2012: 1,390,954,633 and $764 million).
At general meetings, every member who is present in person has one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or by 
proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held.
In the event of winding up, the holders of the cumulative preference shares will be entitled to the repayment of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up, or 
credited as paid up, on the cumulative preference shares held by them and any accrued dividend, whether such dividend has been earned or declared or not, 
calculated up to the date of the winding up.
No ordinary shares were allotted on exercise of employee share option plans (2012: nil).
Own shares
2013 2012
Number of shares US$ million Number of shares US$ million
Own shares
Treasury shares 11,315,992 599 14,505,120 801
Own shares held by subsidiaries and employee benefit trusts 115,691,282 5,864 115,970,790 5,858
Total 127,007,274 6,463 130,475,910 6,659
The movement in treasury shares during the year is as follows:
2013 2012
Number of shares US$ million Number of shares US$ million
Treasury shares
At 1 January 14,505,120 801 19,538,911 1,126
Transferred to employees in settlement of share awards (3,189,128) (202) (5,033,791) (325)
At 31 December 11,315,992 599 14,505,120 801
Tenon
Tenon Investment Holdings (Pty) Limited (Tenon), a wholly owned subsidiary of Anglo American South Africa Limited (AASA), has entered into agreements 
with Epoch Investment Holdings Limited (Epoch), Epoch Two Investment Holdings Limited (Epoch Two) and Tarl Investment Holdings Limited (Tarl) 
(collectively the Investment Companies), each owned by independent charitable trusts whose trustees are independent of the Group. Under the terms of these 
agreements, the Investment Companies have purchased Anglo American plc shares on the market and have granted to Tenon the right to nominate a third 
party (which may include Anglo American plc but not any of its subsidiaries) to take transfer of the Anglo American plc shares each has purchased on the 
market. Tenon paid the Investment Companies 80% of the cost of the Anglo American plc shares including associated costs for this right to nominate, which 
together with subscriptions by Tenon for non-voting participating redeemable preference shares in the Investment Companies, provided all the funding 
required to acquire the Anglo American plc shares through the market. These payments by Tenon were sourced from the cash resources of AASA. Tenon is 
able to exercise its right of nomination at any time up to 31 December 2025 against payment of an average amount of $5.16 per share to Epoch, $8.03 per 
share to Epoch Two and $6.66 per share to Tarl which will be equal to 20% of the total costs respectively incurred by Epoch, Epoch Two and Tarl in purchasing 
shares nominated for transfer to the third party. These funds will then become available for redemption of the preference shares issued by the Investment 
Companies. The amount payable by the third party on receipt of the Anglo American plc shares will accrue to Tenon and, in accordance with paragraph 33 of 
IAS 32, any resulting gain or loss recorded by Tenon will not be recognised in the Consolidated income statement of Anglo American plc.
Under the agreements, the Investment Companies will receive dividends on the shares they hold and have agreed to waive the right to vote on those shares. 
The preference shares issued to the charitable trusts are entitled to a participating right of up to 10% of the profit after tax of Epoch and 5% of the profit after 
tax of Epoch Two and Tarl. The preference shares issued to Tenon will carry a fixed coupon of 3% plus a participating right of up to 80% of the profit after tax of 
Epoch and 85% of the profit after tax of Epoch Two and Tarl. Any remaining distributable earnings in the Investment Companies, after the above dividends, are 
then available for distribution as ordinary dividends to the charitable trusts.
The structure effectively provides Tenon with a beneficial interest in the price risk on these shares together with a participation in future dividend receipts. 
The Investment Companies will retain legal title to the shares until Tenon exercises its right to nominate a transferee.
At 31 December 2013 the Investment Companies together held 112,300,129 (2012: 112,300,129) Anglo American plc shares, which represented 8.1% 
(2012: 8.1%) of the ordinary shares in issue (excluding treasury shares) with a market value of $2,451 million (2012: $3,455 million). The Investment 
Companies are not permitted to hold more than an aggregate of 10% of the issued share capital of Anglo American plc at any one time.
The Investment Companies are considered to be structured entities. Although the Group has no voting rights in the Investment Companies and cannot appoint 
or remove trustees of the charitable trusts, the Investment Companies continue to meet the accounting definition of a subsidiary in accordance with IFRS 10, 
and as a result are consolidated by the Group.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES 198 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
33. CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL AND CONSOLIDATED EQUITY ANALYSIS continued
Employee benefit trust
The provision of shares to certain of the Company’s share option and share incentive schemes may be facilitated by an employee benefit trust or settled by 
the issue of treasury shares. Shares held by the trust are recorded as own shares, and the carrying value is shown as a reduction within shareholders’ equity. 
During 2013 no shares (2012: nil) from the trust were transferred to employees in settlement of share awards. The employee benefit trust has waived the right 
to receive dividends on these shares.
The market value of the 985 shares (2012: 985 shares) held by the trust at 31 December 2013 was $21,000 (2012: $30,000).
The costs of operating the trust are borne by the Group but are not material.
Consolidated equity analysis
Fair value and other reserves comprise:
US$ million
Convertible 
debt 
reserve
Available  
for sale 
reserve
Cash  
flow hedge 
reserve
Other
reserves
(1)
Total  
fair value  
and other 
reserves
At 1 January 2012 355 576 5 824 1,760
Total comprehensive income – 118 10 – 128
Conversion of convertible bond (355) – – – (355)
Other – – – (667) (667)
At 1 January 2013 – 694  15  157  866 
Total comprehensive expense – (123) (6) – (129) 
Other – –  – (17) (17)
At 31 December 2013 – 571  9  140  720 
(1) 
In 2012, following a capital reduction in the Corporate segment, $667 million was transferred from the legal reserve to retained earnings, reducing the legal reserve from $675 million to 
$8 million. Other reserves comprise a capital redemption reserve of $115 million (2012: $115 million), a revaluation reserve of $17 million (2012: $34 million) and a legal reserve of $8 million 
(2012: $8 million).
34. AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION
2013 2012
Paid/payable to Deloitte
Paid/payable 
to auditor (if 
not Deloitte) Paid/payable to Deloitte
Paid/payable 
to auditor (if 
not Deloitte)
US$ million
United 
Kingdom Overseas Total Overseas
United 
Kingdom Overseas Total Overseas
Paid to the Company’s auditor for audit 
of the Anglo American plc Annual Report 1.4 3.1 4.5 – 2.2 4.8 7.0 0.1
Paid to the Company’s auditor for other 
services to the Group
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 0.9 6.3  7.2  0.1 1.1 4.8 5.9 1.1
Total audit fees 2.3 9.4  11.7  0.1 3.3 9.6 12.9 1.2
Audit related assurance services
(1)
 0.5  1.4  1.9  – 0.8 1.0 1.8 –
Taxation compliance services –  0.4  0.4  – – 0.2 0.2 0.3
Taxation advisory services 0.1  1.2  1.3 – 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.1
Other assurance services
(2)
 0.5  0.8  1.3  – 0.4 1.3 1.7 0.6
Other non-audit services –  1.6  1.6  – – – – –
Total non-audit fees 1.1  5.4  6.5 – 1.4 2.7 4.1 1.0
(1) 
Includes $1.5 million (2012: $1.3 million) for the interim review.
(2) 
Includes $0.1 million (2012: $0.1 million) for the audit of Group pension plans.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 199
Financial statements
35. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course of business. Additionally, and as set out in the 2007 demerger agreement, Anglo 
American and the Mondi Group have agreed to indemnify each other, subject to certain limitations, against certain liabilities. Anglo American has also provided 
Mitsubishi Corporation LLC with indemnities against certain liabilities as part of the sale to Mitsubishi of a 24.5% interest in Anglo American Sur SA in 2011. 
Having taken appropriate legal advice, the Group believes that a material liability arising from the indemnities provided is unlikely.
The Group is required to provide guarantees in several jurisdictions in respect of environmental restoration and decommissioning obligations. The Group has 
provided for the estimated cost of these activities.
No contingent liabilities were secured on the assets of the Group at 31 December 2013 or 31 December 2012.
Other
Kumba Iron Ore (Kumba)
21.4% undivided share of the Sishen mine mineral rights
On 28 March 2013 the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) dismissed the appeals of the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) and Imperial Crown Trading 
289 (Pty) Ltd (ICT) against the decision of the North Gauteng High Court, which, inter alia, confirmed that Sishen Iron Ore Company (Pty) Ltd (SIOC) became 
the exclusive holder of the mining rights at the Sishen mine in 2008 when the DMR converted SIOC’s old order rights, and further set aside the grant of a 
prospecting right to ICT by the DMR. The SCA held that as a matter of law and as at midnight on 30 April 2009, SIOC became the sole holder of the mining right 
to iron ore in respect of the Sishen mine, after ArcelorMittal South Africa Limited (ArcelorMittal S.A.) failed to convert its undivided share of the old order 
mining right.
Both ICT and the DMR lodged applications for leave to appeal against the SCA to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court hearing was held on 
3 September 2013.
On 12 December 2013 the Constitutional Court granted the DMR’s appeal in part against the SCA judgment. In a detailed judgment, the Constitutional Court 
clarified that SIOC, when it lodged its application for conversion of its old order right, converted only the right it held at that time (being a 78.6% undivided 
share in the Sishen mining right). The Constitutional Court further held that ArcelorMittal S.A. retained the right to lodge its old order right (21.4% undivided 
share) for conversion before midnight on 30 April 2009, but failed to do so. As a consequence of such failure by ArcelorMittal S.A., the 21.4% undivided right 
remained available for allocation by the DMR.
The Constitutional Court ruled further that, based on the provisions of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA), only SIOC can apply 
for the residual 21.4% undivided share of the Sishen mining right. The grant of the mining right may be made subject to such conditions considered by the 
Minister to be appropriate, provided that the proposed conditions are permissible under the MPRDA. SIOC had previously applied for this 21.4%, and 
continues to account for 100% of what is mined from the reserves at Sishen mine. SIOC has however, in compliance with the Constitutional Court order, 
submitted a further application to be granted this right.
As a further consequence of this finding, the High Court’s ruling setting aside the prospecting right granted by the DMR to ICT also stands.
The findings made by the Constitutional Court are favourable to both SIOC and the DMR. SIOC’s position as the only competent applicant for the residual right 
protects SIOC’s interests. The DMR’s position as custodian of the mineral resources on behalf of the nation, and the authority of the DMR to allocate rights, has 
also been ratified by the Court.
ArcelorMittal S.A. supply agreement
The dispute between SIOC and ArcelorMittal S.A. regarding the contract mining agreement had been referred to arbitration in 2010. In December 2011 the 
parties agreed to delay the arbitration proceedings until the final resolution of the mining rights dispute (see above).
Interim Pricing Agreements were implemented to 31 December 2013.
In November 2013 SIOC and ArcelorMittal S.A. entered into a new Supply Agreement regulating the sale and purchase of iron ore between the parties which 
became effective from 1 January 2014. This agreement, subject to certain express conditions, is contemplated to endure until the end of Life of Mine for the 
Sishen mine.
The conclusion of this agreement settled the arbitration and the various other disputes between the companies.
Following the Constitutional Court ruling (see above), the sale of iron ore from SIOC to ArcelorMittal S.A. will remain regulated by the recently concluded 
Supply Agreement.
Anglo American South Africa Limited (AASA)
AASA, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a defendant in a number of lawsuits filed in England and South Africa on behalf of former mineworkers 
(or their dependants or survivors) who allegedly contracted silicosis working for gold mining companies in which AASA was a shareholder and to which AASA 
provided various technical and administrative services.
In England: AASA is a defendant in five lawsuits filed in the High Court in London on behalf of approximately 6,000 named former mineworkers or their 
dependants. One of the lawsuits is also a “representative claim” on behalf of all black underground miners in “Anglo gold mines” who have been certified as 
suffering from silicosis and related diseases.
In South Africa: (i) AASA is a defendant in approximately 100 separate lawsuits filed in the North Gauteng High Court (Pretoria) which have been referred to 
arbitration. (ii) AASA is named as one of 32 defendants in a consolidated class certification application filed in South Africa. (iii) On 19 September 2013 AASA 
concluded a settlement agreement in terms of which 23 claims (filed in South Africa between 2004 and 2009) were settled, without admission of liability by 
AASA. The terms of the agreement and the settlement amount (which is not material to AASA) are confidential.
The aggregate amount of the individual South African claims is less than $15 million (excluding claims for interests and costs). No specific amount of damages 
has been specified in the claims filed in England or in the consolidated class certification application filed in South Africa.
AASA successfully contested the jurisdiction of the English courts to hear the claims filed against it in that jurisdiction. That ruling has been appealed. AASA is 
defending the separate lawsuits filed in South Africa and will oppose the application for consolidated class certification in South Africa.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES 200 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
36. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, joint operations, associates and joint ventures, see note 38. Members of the Board and 
the Group Management Committee are considered to be related parties.
The Company and its subsidiaries, in the ordinary course of business, enter into various sales, purchase and service transactions with joint operations, 
associates and joint ventures and others in which the Group has a material interest. These transactions are under terms that are no less favourable to the 
Group than those arranged with third parties. These transactions are not considered to be significant, other than purchases by De Beers from its joint 
operations in excess of its attributable share of their production, which amounted to $3,064 million (2012: $1,049 million, representing purchases from 
16 August 2012, the date the Group obtained control of De Beers).
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Loans receivable
(2)
Associates 164 305
Joint ventures 265 242
 429 547
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details. 
(2) 
These loans are included in ‘Financial asset investments’.
At 31 December 2013 the directors of the Company and their immediate relatives controlled 0.1% (2012: 0.1%) of the voting shares of the Company.
Remuneration and benefits received by directors are disclosed in the Remuneration report. Remuneration and benefits of key management personnel, 
including directors, are disclosed in note 27.
Information relating to pension fund arrangements is disclosed in note 28.
Refinancing of Atlatsa
In 2009, Platinum sold a 51% interest in Bokoni Platinum Mines Proprietary Limited (Bokoni) and a 1% interest in certain undeveloped projects to Atlatsa 
Resources Corporation (Atlatsa) in a BEE transaction. Platinum retained 49% of Bokoni, and in addition acquired an effective 27% interest in Atlatsa as part 
of the sale consideration. Both Atlatsa and Bokoni are associates of the Group. 
Between 2009 and December 2013 Platinum has provided Atlatsa and its subsidiaries, including Bokoni, with additional debt and equity funding and in 
2012, Platinum and Atlatsa agreed to restructure, recapitalise and refinance both Atlatsa and Bokoni. The first phase of the refinancing transaction 
completed in December 2013, whereby Platinum acquired certain properties from Bokoni and in return the level of debt outstanding from Atlatsa was 
reduced. A charge of $37 million has been recorded within non-operating special items relating to this transaction, see note 6. 
Related party transaction with Mitsubishi
During the year the Group entered into a transaction with a related party of the Company for the purposes of the United Kingdom Listing Authority Listing Rules.
An Anglo American subsidiary entered into a Shareholder Agreement (SHA) with a subsidiary of Mitsubishi Corporation (Mitsubishi) in relation to Anglo 
American Quellaveco SA, which owns Anglo American’s Quellaveco copper project. Mitsubishi is a related party to Anglo American because its wholly owned 
subsidiary is a substantial shareholder in Anglo American Sur SA, a significant subsidiary of the Company. Anglo American Sur SA owns and operates copper 
mines and metallurgical plants in Chile and has no ownership interest in Quellaveco.
Anglo American has a controlling 81.9% interest in Anglo American Quellaveco SA. Mitsubishi purchased its 18.1% shareholding in this company in 2011 from 
an unrelated third party. The entry into the SHA provides a formal contractual relationship with a minority shareholder to give more certainty to the way in 
which the shareholding relationship in Anglo American Quellaveco SA is managed. It is primarily focused on the governance aspects of the relationship, 
information rights, the transferability of shares, arrangements for future funding and entitlement to production from the Quellaveco project. The entry into the 
SHA did not involve a purchase or sale of an asset and no value is ascribed to this transaction.
37. EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER END OF YEAR
With the exception of the proposed final dividend for 2013, see note 10, there have been no reportable events since 31 December 2013.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 201
Financial statements
38. GROUP COMPANIES
The Group consists of the parent company, Anglo American plc, incorporated in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures and 
associates. For information on the Group’s policies and the nature of any significant judgements in relation to the basis of accounting for interests in other 
entities, see note 1. Further information on interests in associates and joint ventures is provided in note 13.
The Group holds certain interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities. Further details on consolidated structured entities can be found 
in note 33. Unconsolidated structured entities consist of employee benefit trusts and community investment vehicles, principally in South Africa. Financial 
support provided to these entities by the Group is not material.
The principal subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures and associates of the Group and the Group percentage of equity capital and joint arrangements  
are set out below. All these interests are held indirectly by the parent company and are consolidated within these financial statements. As permitted by 
section 410 of the Companies Act 2006, the Group has restricted the information provided to its principal subsidiaries in order to avoid a statement of 
excessive length.
Percentage of equity owned
(2)
Subsidiary undertakings Country of incorporation
(1)
Business 2013 2012
Iron Ore and Manganese
Kumba Iron Ore Limited South Africa Iron ore 69.7% 69.7%
Sishen Iron Ore Company
(3)
South Africa Iron ore 73.9% 73.9%
Anglo Ferrous Brazil SA Brazil Iron ore 100% 100%
Anglo American Minério de Ferro Brasil SA Brazil Iron ore project 100% 100%
Metallurgical Coal
Anglo American Metallurgical Coal Holdings Limited Australia Coal 100% 100%
Peace River Coal Inc. Canada Coal 100% 100%
Thermal Coal
Anglo Coal
(4)
South Africa Coal 100% 100%
Copper
Anglo American Sur SA Chile Copper 50.1% 50.1%
Anglo American Norte SA
(5)
Chile Copper 100% 100%
Anglo American Quellaveco SA Peru Copper project 81.9% 81.9%
Nickel
Anglo American Níquel Brasil Limitada (Barro Alto) Brazil Nickel project 100% 100%
Anglo American Níquel Brasil Limitada (Codemin) Brazil Nickel 100% 100%
Niobium and Phosphates
Anglo American Nióbio Brasil Limitada Brazil Niobium 100% 100%
Anglo American Fosfatos Brasil Limitada Brazil Phosphates 100% 100%
Platinum
Anglo American Platinum Limited
(6)
South Africa Platinum 78% 78%
Diamonds
De Beers Société Anonyme Luxembourg Diamonds 85% 85%
De Beers Consolidated Mines
(7)
South Africa Diamonds 74% 74%
Other Mining and Industrial
Anglo Ferrous Amapá Mineração Limitada
(8)
Brazil Iron ore system – 70%
Tarmac Building Products Limited United Kingdom Heavy building materials 100% 100%
See page 202 for footnotes.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES 202 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
38. GROUP COMPANIES continued
Percentage of equity owned
(13)
Proportionately consolidated joint operations Country of incorporation
(1)
Business 2013 2012
Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi SCM Chile Copper 44% 44%
Debswana Diamond Company (Proprietary) Limited
(9)
Botswana Diamonds 50% 50%
Namdeb Holdings (Proprietary) Limited
(10)
Namibia Diamonds 50% 50%
Capcoal
(11)
Australia Coal 70% 70%
Dawson
(11)
Australia Coal 51% 51%
Drayton
(11)
Australia Coal 88.2% 88.2%
Foxleigh
(11)
Australia Coal 70% 70%
Moranbah North
(11)
Australia Coal 88% 88%
Percentage of equity owned
(13)
Joint ventures Country of incorporation
(1)
Business 2013 2012
LLX Minas-Rio Logística Comercial Exportadora SA Brazil Port 49% 49%
Lafarge Tarmac Holdings Limited
(12)
United Kingdom Heavy building materials 50% –
AI Futtain Tarmac Quarry Products Limited Dubai Heavy building materials 49% 49%
Tarmac Oman Limited Hong Kong Heavy building materials 50% 50%
Midmac Tarmac Qatar LLC Qatar Heavy building materials 50% 50%
Percentage of equity owned
(13)
Associates Country of incorporation
(1)
Business 2013 2012
Samancor Holdings Proprietary Limited
(14)
South Africa Manganese 40% 40%
Groote Eylandt Mining Company Pty Limited (GEMCO)
(14)
Australia Manganese 40% 40%
Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Company Pty Limited (TEMCO)
(14)
Australia Manganese 40% 40%
Jellinbah Group Pty Limited
(15)
Australia Coal 33.3% 33.3%
Cerrejón Zona Norte SA Colombia Coal 33.3% 33.3%
Carbones del Cerrejón LLC Anguilla Coal 33.3% 33.3%
(1) 
The principal country of operation is the same as the country of incorporation for all entities with the exception of De Beers Société Anonyme (De Beers), which has worldwide operations.
(2) 
The proportion of voting rights of subsidiaries held by the Group is the same as the proportion of equity owned.
(3) 
The 73.9% interest in Sishen Iron Ore Company (SIOC) is held indirectly through Kumba Iron Ore, in which the Group has a 69.7% interest. A further 3.1% interest in SIOC is held by the Kumba 
Envision Trust for the benefit of participants in Kumba’s broad based employee share scheme for non-managerial Historically Disadvantaged South African employees. The Trust meets the 
definition of a subsidiary under IFRS, and is therefore consolidated by Kumba Iron Ore. Consequently the effective interest in SIOC included in the Group’s results is 53.7%.
(4) 
A division of Anglo Operations Proprietary Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary.
(5) 
Non-controlling interest of 0.018%.
(6) 
The Group’s effective interest in Anglo American Platinum Limited is 79.9%, which includes shares issued as part of a community empowerment deal.
(7) 
The 74% interest in De Beers Consolidated Mines (DBCM) is held indirectly through De Beers. The 74% interest represents De Beers’ legal ownership share in DBCM. For accounting purposes 
De Beers consolidates 100% of DBCM as it is deemed to control the BEE entity which holds the remaining 26% after providing certain financial guarantees on its behalf in 2010. The Group’s 
effective interest in DBCM is 85%.
(8) 
On 4 January 2013, Anglo American announced that it had reached an agreement to sell its 70% interest in Anglo Ferrous Amapá Mineração Limitada (Amapá) to Zamin Ferrous Ltd (Zamin). 
Subsequently Anglo American entered into an agreement with Cliffs Natural Resources to acquire its 30% interest in Amapá and entered into an amended sale agreement with Zamin to reflect 
Anglo American’s disposal of a 100% interest in Amapá to Zamin. On 1 November 2013 these transactions completed. See note 31.
(9) 
The 50% interest in Debswana is held indirectly through De Beers and is consolidated on a 19.2% proportionate basis, reflecting economic interest. The Group’s effective interest in Debswana 
is 16.3%.
(10) 
The 50% interest in Namdeb Holdings is held indirectly through De Beers. The Group’s effective interest in Namdeb Holdings is 42.5%.
(11) 
The wholly owned subsidiary Anglo American Metallurgical Coal Holdings Limited holds the proportionately consolidated joint operations, these operations are unincorporated and 
jointly controlled.
(12) 
Lafarge Tarmac Holdings Limited was formed during 2013. See note 30.
(13) 
All equity interests shown are ordinary shares.
(14) 
These entities have a 30 June year end.
(15) 
The Group’s effective interest in the Jellinbah operation is 23.3%. The entity has a 30 June year end.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 203
Financial statements
39. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board approves and monitors the risk management processes, including documented treasury policies, counterparty limits, controlling and reporting 
structures. The risk management processes of the Group’s independently listed subsidiaries are in line with the Group’s own policy.
The types of risk exposure, the way in which such exposure is managed and quantification of the level of exposure in the Consolidated balance sheet at 
31 December is provided as follows (subcategorised into credit risk, commodity price risk, foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk). See note 25 for 
liquidity risk.
Market risks
a) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty to a financial instrument will cause a loss to Anglo American by failing to pay for its obligation. The Group’s principal 
financial assets, including amounts in assets held for sale that are susceptible to credit risks, are cash, trade and other receivables, investments and derivative 
financial instruments. The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk primarily arises from these financial assets and is as follows:
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
Cash and cash equivalents 7,702 9,298
Trade and other receivables
(2)
 3,874 3,966
Financial asset investments
(3)
 759 1,441
Derivative financial assets 674 848
Financial guarantees
(4)
 12 33
13,021 15,586
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Trade and other receivables exclude prepayments and accrued income.
(3) 
Financial asset investments exclude available for sale investments.
(4) 
Financial guarantees issued by the Group in respect of third party liabilities represent an exposure to credit risk in excess of the Group’s financial assets.
The Group limits credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments through diversification of exposures with a range of approved financial 
institutions. Counterparty limits are set for each financial institution with reference to credit ratings assigned by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch Ratings.
Given the diverse nature of the Group’s operations (both in relation to commodity markets and geographically), together with insurance cover (including 
letters of credit from financial institutions), it does not have significant concentration of credit risk in respect of trade receivables, with exposure spread over  
a large number of customers.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is made where there is an identified loss event, which based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction 
in the recoverability of the cash flows. Details of the credit quality of trade receivables and the associated provision for impairment are disclosed  
in note 16.
b) Commodity price risk
The Group’s earnings are exposed to movements in the prices of the commodities it produces.
The Group’s policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices and is generally not to hedge commodity price risk, although some hedging may be 
undertaken for strategic reasons. In such cases, the Group generally uses forward and deferred contracts to hedge the price risk.
Certain of the Group’s sales and purchases are provisionally priced, meaning that the selling price is determined normally 30 to 180 days after delivery  
to the customer, based on quoted market prices stipulated in the contract, and as a result are susceptible to future price movements. The exposure of the 
Group’s financial assets and liabilities to commodity price risk is as follows:
2013
2012
restated
(1)
Commodity price linked
Not  
linked to 
commodity 
price Total
Commodity price linked
US$ million
Subject to 
price
movements
(2)
Fixed
price
(3)
Subject to 
price
movements
(2)
Fixed
price
(3)
Not  
linked to 
commodity 
price Total
Total net financial instruments  
(excluding derivatives) 1,261  678 (10,946) (9,007) 304 1,087 (8,281) (6,890)
Commodity derivatives (net) (3)  –  – (3) (1) – – (1)
Non-commodity derivatives (net) –  – (834) (834) – – (232) (232)
Total financial instrument exposure to
commodity risk 1,258  678 (11,780) (9,844) 303 1,087 (8,513) (7,123)
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 for details.
(2) 
Includes provisionally priced trade receivables and trade payables.
(3) 
Includes receivables and payables for commodity sales and purchases not subject to price adjustment at the balance sheet date.
Commodity based contracts that are settled through physical delivery of the Group’s production or are used within the production process, are classified as 
normal purchase or sale contracts and are not marked to market.
c) Foreign exchange risk
As a global business, the Group is exposed to many currencies principally as a result of non-US dollar operating costs and, to a lesser extent, from non-US 
dollar revenue. The Brazilian real and South African rand are the most significant non-US dollar currencies influencing costs. A strengthening of the US dollar 
against the currencies to which the Group is exposed has a positive effect on Anglo American’s underlying earnings. The Group’s policy is generally not to 
hedge such exposures as hedging is not deemed appropriate given the diversified nature of the Group, though exceptions can be approved by the Group 
Management Committee.
In addition, currency exposures exist in respect of non-US dollar approved capital expenditure projects and non-US dollar borrowings in US dollar functional 
currency entities. The Group’s policy is that such exposures should be hedged subject to a review of the specific circumstances of the exposure.
Analysis of foreign exchange risk associated with net debt balances and the impact of derivatives to hedge against this risk is included within note 25. Of net 
other financial assets (excluding net debt related balances) of $811 million, $278 million are denominated in US dollar and $443 million in South African rand. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES 204 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
39. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued
d) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk arises due to fluctuations in interest rates which impact on the value of short term investments and financing activities. The Group’s exposure 
to interest rate risk is particularly with reference to changes in US and South African interest rates.
The Group’s policy is to borrow funds at floating rates of interest as, over the longer term, this is considered by management to give somewhat of a natural 
hedge against commodity price movements, given the correlation with economic growth (and industrial activity), which in turn shows a high correlation with 
commodity price fluctuation. In certain circumstances, the Group uses interest rate swap contracts to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on a 
portion of its existing debt. Strategic hedging using fixed rate debt may also be undertaken from time to time if approved by the Group Management Committee.
In respect of financial assets, the Group’s policy is to invest cash at floating rates of interest and to maintain cash reserves in short term investments (less than 
one year) in order to maintain liquidity, while achieving a satisfactory return for shareholders.
Analysis of interest rate risk associated with net debt balances and the impact of derivatives to hedge against this risk is included within note 25. Of net other 
financial assets (excluding net debt related balances) of $811 million, the majority are non-interest bearing. 
e) Financial instrument sensitivities
Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits, derivative financial instruments, trade receivables and trade payables. The 
following analysis is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Group’s financial instruments (at 31 December) to changes in commodity prices, interest rates 
and foreign currencies.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the components of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of the debt and derivatives 
portfolio and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the hedge designations in place at 31 December. 
In addition, the commodity price impact for provisionally priced contracts is based on the related trade receivables and trade payables at 31 December. As a 
consequence, this sensitivity analysis relates to the position at 31 December.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis:
 • all income statement sensitivities also impact equity
 • for debt and other deposits carried at amortised cost, carrying value does not change as interest rates move
 • no sensitivity is provided for interest accruals as these are based on pre-agreed interest rates and therefore are not susceptible to further rate changes
 • changes in the carrying value of derivatives (from movements in commodity prices and interest rates) designated as cash flow hedges are assumed to be 
recorded fully within equity on the grounds of materiality
 • no sensitivity has been calculated on derivatives and related underlying instruments designated into fair value hedge relationships as these are assumed 
materially to offset one another
 • all hedge relationships are assumed to be fully effective on the grounds of materiality
 • debt with a maturity of less than one year is floating rate, unless it is a long term fixed rate debt in its final year
 • translation of foreign subsidiaries and operations into the Group’s presentation currency has been excluded from the sensitivity.
Using the above assumptions, the following table shows the illustrative effect on the income statement and equity that would result from reasonably possible 
changes in the relevant commodity price. The Group has determined that at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012, based on the above assumptions, 
there is no significant sensitivity to changes in market interest rates.
2013 2012
US$ million Income Equity Income Equity
Foreign currency sensitivities
(1)
+10% US dollar to rand 16 16 (74)  (73)
–10% US dollar to rand (16) (16) 74 73
+10% US dollar to Brazilian real
(2)
 87  87 190 190
–10% US dollar to Brazilian real
(2)
(99) (99) (194) (194)
+10% US dollar to Australian dollar 37  37 41  41
–10% US dollar to Australian dollar (37) (37) (41)  (41)
+10% US dollar to Chilean peso 30  30 29 29
–10% US dollar to Chilean peso (32) (32) (36) (36)
Commodity price sensitivities
10% increase in the copper price 109  109 63  63
10% decrease in the copper price (109) (109) (63)  (63)
10% increase in the platinum price (15) (15) (17) (17)
10% decrease in the platinum price 15  15 17 17
(1) 
+ represents strengthening of US dollar against the respective currency.
(2) 
Includes sensitivities for non-hedge derivatives related to capital expenditure. 
The above sensitivities are calculated with reference to a single moment in time and are subject to change due to a number of factors including:
 • fluctuating trade receivable and trade payable balances
 • derivative instruments and borrowings settled throughout the year
 • fluctuating cash balances
 • changes in currency mix.
As the sensitivities are limited to year end financial instrument balances, they do not take account of the Group’s sales and operating costs, which are highly 
sensitive to changes in commodity prices and exchange rates. In addition, each of the sensitivities is calculated in isolation whilst, in reality, commodity prices, 
interest rates and foreign currencies do not move independently.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 205
Financial statements
40. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRS Interpretations Committee 
(IFRIC) interpretations as adopted for use by the European Union, with those 
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under 
IFRS and with the requirements of the Disclosure and Transparency rules  
of the Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom as applicable to 
periodic financial reporting. The financial statements have been prepared 
under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of pension 
assets and liabilities and certain financial instruments. A summary of the 
principal Group accounting policies is set out below.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial 
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the 
reporting period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best 
knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may  
differ from those estimates. 
As permitted by UK company law, the Group’s results are presented in 
US dollars, the currency in which its business is primarily conducted.
Going concern
The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a 
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Thus the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial 
statements continues to be adopted. Further details are contained in the 
Directors’ report on page 144.
Basis of consolidation
The financial statements incorporate a consolidation of the financial 
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its 
subsidiaries). Control is achieved where the Company is exposed, or has 
rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the 
ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are 
included in the income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up 
to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. 
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries, joint 
arrangements and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with 
those used by the Group. Intra-group transactions, balances, income and 
expenses are eliminated on consolidation, where appropriate. 
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, non-controlling interests are presented 
in equity separately from the equity attributable to shareholders of the 
Company. Profit or loss and other comprehensive income are attributed to the 
shareholders of the Company and to the non-controlling interest even if this 
results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries that do not result in a change  
in control are accounted for in equity. The carrying amounts of the controlling 
and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their 
relative interests in the subsidiary. Any difference between the amount by 
which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair value of the 
consideration paid or received is recorded directly in equity and attributed 
to the shareholders of the Company.
40a. Revenue recognition
Revenue is derived principally from the sale of goods and is measured at the 
fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, 
volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes. Sales of concentrate 
are stated at their invoiced amount which is net of treatment and refining 
charges. A sale is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of 
ownership have passed. This is usually when title and insurance risk have 
passed to the customer and the goods have been delivered to a contractually 
agreed location.
Revenue from metal mining activities is based on the payable metal sold.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES
Sales of certain commodities are provisionally priced such that the price is not 
settled until a predetermined future date based on the market price at that 
time. Revenue on these sales is initially recognised (when the above criteria 
are met) at the current market price. Provisionally priced sales are marked to 
market at each reporting date using the forward price for the period 
equivalent to that outlined in the contract. This mark to market adjustment is 
recognised in revenue.
Revenues from the sale of material by-products are included within revenue. 
Where a by-product is not regarded as significant, revenue may be credited 
against the cost of sales.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal 
outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ 
rights to receive payment have been established.
40b. Borrowing costs
Interest on borrowings directly relating to the financing of qualifying capital 
projects under construction is added to the capitalised cost of those projects 
during the construction phase, until such time as the assets are substantially  
ready for their intended use or sale which, in the case of mining properties, 
is when they are capable of commercial production. Where funds have been 
borrowed specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents 
the actual borrowing costs incurred. Where the funds used to finance a 
project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated 
using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings 
of the Group during the period. All other borrowing costs are recognised in 
the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
40c. Tax
The tax expense includes the current tax and deferred tax charge recognised 
in the income statement.
Current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit 
differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it 
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other 
years and it further excludes items that are not taxable or deductible. The 
Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and  
the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are generally 
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available 
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets 
and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the 
initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction (other  
than in a business combination) that affects neither taxable profit nor 
accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences 
arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates 
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary 
difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date 
and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable 
profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the 
period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on the laws 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when 
it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the 
deferred tax is also taken directly to equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes 
levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its 
current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis in that taxation authority. 206 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
40. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
40d. Business combinations and goodwill arising thereon
The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, 
a joint arrangement or an associate, which can be measured reliably, are 
recorded at their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition. Goodwill 
is the fair value of the consideration transferred (including contingent 
consideration and previously held non-controlling interests) less the fair  
value of the Group’s share of identifiable net assets on acquisition. 
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group’s previously 
held interests in the acquiree are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition 
date and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement. 
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date 
that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are 
reclassified to the income statement, where such treatment would be 
appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
Transaction costs incurred in connection with the business combination  
are expensed. Provisional fair values are finalised within 12 months of the 
acquisition date.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint operations is included within 
intangible assets. Goodwill relating to associates and joint ventures is 
included within the carrying value of the investment. 
Where the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired exceeds the  
cost of the acquisition, the surplus, which represents the discount on the 
acquisition, is recognised directly in the income statement in the period  
of acquisition.
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, non-controlling interests are initially 
recorded at the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the fair values of  
net assets recognised at acquisition.
40e. Non-mining licences and other intangibles
Non-mining licences and other intangibles are measured at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Intangible 
assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised 
separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or 
legal rights and the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition. 
Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, usually 
between 3 and 20 years, except goodwill and those intangible assets that 
are considered to have indefinite lives. For intangible assets with a finite life, 
the amortisation period is determined as the period over which the Group 
expects to obtain benefits from the asset, taking account of all relevant facts 
and circumstances including contractual lives and expectations about the 
renewal of contractual arrangements without significant incremental costs. 
An intangible asset is deemed to have an indefinite life when, based on an 
analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the period 
over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for the Group. 
Amortisation methods, residual values and estimated useful lives are 
reviewed at least annually.
40f. Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the group of cash 
generating units (CGUs) that is expected to benefit from synergies of the 
combination, and represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored 
by the Group’s board of directors for internal management purposes. The 
recoverable amount of the CGU or group of CGUs to which goodwill has been 
allocated, is tested for impairment annually, or when events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement  
as a special item. Impairment of goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
40g. Property, plant and equipment
Mining properties and leases include the cost of acquiring and developing 
mining properties and mineral rights.
Mining properties are depreciated to their residual values using the unit  
of production method based on Proved and Probable Ore Reserves and,  
in certain limited circumstances, other Mineral Resources. Mineral Resources 
are included in depreciation calculations where there is a high degree of 
confidence that they will be extracted in an economic manner. For diamond 
operations, depreciation calculations are based on Diamond Reserves and 
Resources included in the Life of Mine Plan. Depreciation is charged on new 
mining ventures from the date that the mining property is capable of 
commercial production. When there is little likelihood of a mineral right being 
exploited, or the value of the exploitable mineral right has diminished below 
cost, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. 
Capital works in progress are measured at cost less any recognised 
impairment. Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for their 
intended use. Buildings and plant and equipment are depreciated to their 
residual values at varying rates on a straight line basis over their estimated 
useful lives or the Mine Life, whichever is shorter. Estimated useful lives 
normally vary from up to 20 years for items of plant and equipment to a 
maximum of 50 years for buildings. Land is not depreciated.
When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful 
lives, they are accounted for as separate items (major components).
Depreciation methods, residual values and estimated useful lives are 
reviewed at least annually.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease 
term and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Gains or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined 
by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount. The gain 
or loss is recognised in the income statement.
40h. Deferred stripping
The removal of overburden and other mine waste materials is often necessary 
during the initial development of a mine site, in order to access the mineral ore 
deposit. The directly attributable cost of this activity is capitalised in full within 
mining properties and leases, until the point at which the mine is considered 
to be capable of commercial production. This is classified as expansionary 
capital expenditure, within investing cash flows.
The removal of waste material after the point at which a mine is capable of 
commercial production is referred to as production stripping. 
When the waste removal activity improves access to ore extracted in the 
current period, the costs of production stripping are charged to the income 
statement as operating costs in accordance with the principles of IAS 2 
Inventories. 
Where production stripping activity both produces inventory and improves 
access to ore in future periods the associated costs of waste removal are 
allocated between the two elements. The portion which benefits future ore 
extraction is capitalised within stripping and development capital expenditure. 
If the amount to be capitalised cannot be specifically identified it is determined 
based on the volume of waste extracted compared with expected volume for 
the identified component of the orebody. Components are specific volumes 
of a mine’s orebody that are determined by reference to the Life of Mine Plan. 
In certain instances significant levels of waste removal may occur during the 
production phase with little or no associated production. This may occur at 
both open pit and underground mines, for example longwall development. 
The cost of this waste removal is capitalised in full.
All amounts capitalised in respect of waste removal are depreciated using the 
unit of production method based on Proved and Probable Ore Reserves of 
the component of the orebody to which they relate. 
The effects of changes to the Life of Mine Plan on the expected cost of waste 
removal or remaining reserves for a component are accounted for 
prospectively as a change in estimate.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 207
Financial statements
40. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
40i. Impairment of property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its 
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether 
there is any indication that those assets are impaired. If such an indication 
exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine 
the extent of any impairment. Where the asset does not generate cash flows 
that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable 
amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an 
indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is 
an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value (less costs of disposal) and 
value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific 
to the asset for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than  
its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced  
to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the income 
statement as a special item.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount  
of the asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable 
amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the 
carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment  
been recognised for the asset or CGU. A reversal of an impairment loss  
is recognised in the income statement as a special item.
40j. Exploration, evaluation and development expenditure
Exploration and evaluation expenditure is expensed in the year in which it  
is incurred. When a decision is taken that a mining property is economically 
feasible, all subsequent evaluation expenditure is capitalised within property, 
plant and equipment including, where applicable, directly attributable  
pre-production development expenditure. Capitalisation of such expenditure 
ceases when the mining property is capable of commercial production.
Exploration properties acquired are recognised in the balance sheet at cost 
less any accumulated impairment losses. Such properties and capitalised 
evaluation and pre-production development expenditure prior to commercial 
production are assessed for impairment in accordance with the Group’s 
accounting policy stated above.
40k. Associates and joint arrangements
Associates are investments over which the Group has significant influence, 
which is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy 
decisions of the investee, but without the ability to exercise control or joint 
control. Typically the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the voting equity 
of its associates.
Joint arrangements are arrangements in which the Group shares joint control 
with one or more parties. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of 
control of an arrangement, and exists only when decisions about the activities 
that significantly affect the arrangements returns require the unanimous 
consent of the parties sharing control. 
Joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures 
based on the rights and obligations of the parties to the arrangement. In joint 
operations, the parties have rights to the assets and obligations for the 
liabilities relating to the arrangement, whereas in joint ventures, the parties 
have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. 
Joint arrangements that are not structured through a separate vehicle are 
always joint operations. Joint arrangements that are structured through a 
separate vehicle may be either joint operations or joint ventures depending on 
the substance of the arrangement. In these cases, consideration is given to 
the legal form of the separate vehicle, the terms of the contractual 
arrangement and, when relevant, other facts and circumstances. When the 
activities of an arrangement are primarily designed for the provision of output 
to the parties and the parties are substantially the only source of cash flows 
contributing to the continuity of the operations of the arrangement, this 
indicates the parties to the arrangements have rights to the assets and 
obligations for the liabilities.
The Group accounts for joint operations by recognising the assets, liabilities, 
revenue and expenses for which it has rights or obligations, including its share 
of such items held or incurred jointly.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the 
equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale. The 
Group’s share of associates’ and joint ventures’ net income is based on their 
most recent audited financial statements or unaudited interim statements 
drawn up to the Group’s balance sheet date.
The total carrying values of investments in associates and joint ventures 
represent the cost of each investment including the carrying value of 
goodwill, the share of post acquisition retained earnings, any other 
movements in reserves and any long term debt interests which in substance 
form part of the Group’s net investment. The carrying values of associates 
and joint ventures are reviewed on a regular basis and if there is objective 
evidence that an impairment in value has occurred as a result of one or more 
events during the period, the investment is impaired. 
The Group’s share of an associate’s or joint venture’s losses in excess of its 
interest in that associate or joint venture is not recognised unless the Group 
has an obligation to fund such losses. Unrealised gains arising from 
transactions with associates and joint ventures are eliminated against the 
investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised 
losses are eliminated in the same way, but only to the extent that there is no 
evidence of impairment.
40l. Financial asset investments
Investments, other than investments in subsidiaries, joint arrangements and 
associates, are financial asset investments and are initially recognised at fair 
value. At subsequent reporting dates, financial assets that the Group has the 
expressed intention and ability to hold to maturity (held to maturity) as well as 
loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost, less any impairment 
losses. The amortisation of any discount or premium on the acquisition of 
a held to maturity investment is recognised in the income statement in each 
period using the effective interest method.
Investments other than those classified as held to maturity or loans and 
receivables are classified as either at fair value through profit or loss (which 
includes investments held for trading) or available for sale financial assets. 
Both categories are subsequently measured at fair value. Where investments 
are held for trading purposes, unrealised gains and losses for the period  
are included in the income statement within other gains and losses. For 
available for sale investments, unrealised gains and losses are recognised  
in equity until the investment is disposed of or impaired, at which time the 
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recycled to the 
income statement.
Current financial asset investments consist mainly of bank term deposits and 
fixed and floating rate debt securities. Debt securities that are intended to be 
held to maturity are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest 
method. Debt securities that are not intended to be held to maturity are 
recorded at the lower of cost and market value.
40m. Impairment of financial assets (including receivables)
A financial asset not measured at fair value through profit or loss is assessed 
at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence 
that it is impaired. A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates 
that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost 
is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present 
value of the estimated cash flows discounted at the asset’s original effective 
interest rate. Losses are recognised in the income statement. When a 
subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the 
decrease in impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
Impairment losses relating to available for sale investments are recognised 
when the decline in fair value is considered significant or prolonged. 
These impairment losses are recognised by transferring the cumulative  
loss that has been recognised in the statement of comprehensive income  
to the income statement. The loss recognised in the income statement is  
the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES 208 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
40. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
40n. Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
In order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and 
commodity price risk, the Group enters into forward, option and swap 
contracts. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for 
speculative purposes. Commodity based (own use) contracts that meet 
the scope exemption in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement are recognised in earnings when they are settled by 
physical delivery.
All derivatives are held at fair value in the balance sheet within ‘Derivative 
financial assets’ or ‘Derivative financial liabilities’ except if they are linked  
to settlement and delivery of an unquoted equity instrument and the fair  
value cannot be measured reliably, in which case they are carried at cost. 
A derivative cannot be measured reliably where the range of reasonable  
fair value estimates is significant and the probabilities of various estimates 
cannot be reasonably assessed.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are 
designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows (cash flow hedges) 
are recognised directly in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective 
portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. If the cash flow 
hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition 
of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is 
recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had 
previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement 
of the asset or liability. 
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of a non-financial asset or 
liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement 
in the same period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss. For an 
effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged item  
is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
The corresponding entry, along with gains or losses from remeasuring the 
associated derivative, are recognised in the income statement.
The gain or loss on hedging instruments relating to the effective portion 
of a net investment hedge is recognised in equity (within the cumulative 
translation adjustment reserve). The ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. Gains or losses accumulated in the 
cumulative translation adjustment reserve are recycled to the income 
statement on disposal of the foreign operations to which they relate.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires  
or is sold, terminated, exercised, revoked, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument recognised in equity is retained until the forecast transaction 
occurs. If a hedge transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net 
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recycled to the 
income statement for the period.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not designated 
in a hedge relationship are recognised immediately in the income statement 
and are classified within other gains and losses (operating costs) or net 
finance costs depending on the type of risk to which the derivative relates.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or non-financial host 
contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of their host contracts and the 
host contracts themselves are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains  
or losses reported in the income statement.
40o. Cash and debt
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and on demand deposits, 
together with short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible 
to a known amount of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value. Bank overdrafts are shown within short term borrowings in 
current liabilities on the balance sheet. Cash and cash equivalents in the cash 
flow statement are shown net of overdrafts. Cash and cash equivalents are 
measured at amortised cost.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified and accounted for  
as debt or equity according to the substance of the contractual arrangements 
entered into.
Convertible debt
Convertible bonds are classified as compound instruments, consisting of 
a liability and an equity component. At the date of issue, the fair value of the 
liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for 
similar non-convertible debt and is recognised within borrowings and carried 
at amortised cost. The difference between the proceeds of issue of the 
convertible bond and the fair value assigned to the liability component, 
representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the 
Group, is included in equity.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components  
of the convertible bonds where appropriate based on their relative carrying 
amounts at the date of issue. The portion relating to the equity component 
is charged directly against equity.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying  
the effective interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability 
component of the instrument. The difference between this amount and  
the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the liability.
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair 
value, net of directly attributable transaction costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue 
costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest 
method. They are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the 
extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
40p. Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from  
the asset has expired, the right to receive cash flows has been retained but  
an obligation to on-pay them in full without material delay has been assumed 
or the right to receive cash flows has been transferred together with 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the associated obligation has  
been discharged, cancelled or has expired.
40q. Inventories
Inventory and work in progress are measured at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. The production cost of inventory includes an appropriate 
proportion of depreciation and production overheads. Cost is determined  
on the following basis:
 • Raw materials and consumables are measured at cost on a first in, first  
out (FIFO) basis or a weighted average cost basis.
 • Finished products are measured at raw material cost, labour cost  
and a proportion of manufacturing overhead expenses.
 • Metal and coal stocks are included within finished products and are 
measured at average cost.
At precious metals operations that produce ‘joint products’, cost is  
allocated amongst products according to the ratio of contribution of these 
metals to gross sales revenues.
40r. Environmental restoration and decommissioning 
obligations
An obligation to incur environmental restoration, rehabilitation and 
decommissioning costs arises when disturbance is caused by the 
development or ongoing production of a mining property. Such costs  
arising from the decommissioning of plant and other site preparation work, 
discounted to their net present value, are provided for and capitalised at the 
start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises. 
These costs are recognised in the income statement over the life of the 
operation, through the depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the 
discount on the provision. Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage 
which is created on an ongoing basis during production are provided for  
at their net present values and recognised in the income statement as 
extraction progresses.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 209
Financial statements
40. ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of 
plant or other site preparation work (that result from changes in the estimated 
timing or amount of the cash flow or a change in the discount rate), are added 
to or deducted from the cost of the related asset in the current period. If a 
decrease in the liability exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess 
is recognised immediately in the income statement. If the asset value is 
increased and there is an indication that the revised carrying value is not 
recoverable, an impairment test is performed in accordance with the 
accounting policy set out above.
For some South African operations annual contributions are made to 
dedicated environmental rehabilitation trusts to fund the estimated cost of 
rehabilitation during and at the end of the life of the relevant mine. The Group 
exercises full control of these trusts and therefore the trusts are consolidated. 
The trusts’ assets are disclosed separately on the balance sheet as non-
current assets. The trusts’ assets are measured based on the nature of the 
underlying assets in accordance with accounting policies for similar assets.
40s. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their 
carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than 
through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is 
highly probable within one year from the date of classification, management 
is committed to the sale and the asset or disposal group is available for 
immediate sale in its present condition.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale from 
the date these conditions are met and are measured at the lower of carrying 
amount and fair value (less costs to sell). Any resulting impairment loss 
is recognised in the income statement as a special item. On classification as 
held for sale the assets are no longer depreciated. Comparative amounts  
are not adjusted.
40t. Retirement benefits
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension 
plans for its employees as well as post employment medical plans. For 
defined contribution plans the amount recognised in the income statement  
is the contributions paid or payable during the year.
For defined benefit pension and post employment medical plans, full actuarial 
valuations are carried out at least every three years using the projected unit 
credit method and updates are performed for each financial year end. The 
average discount rate for the plans’ liabilities is based on AA rated corporate 
bonds of a suitable duration and currency or, where there is no deep market 
for such bonds, is based on government bonds. Pension plan assets are 
measured using year end market values.
Remeasurements comprising actuarial gains and losses, movements in asset 
surplus restrictions and the return on scheme assets (excluding interest 
income) are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive 
income and are not recycled to the income statement. Any increase in the 
present value of plan liabilities expected to arise from employee service during 
the year is charged to operating profit. The net interest income or cost on the 
net defined benefit asset or liability is included in investment income and 
interest expense respectively.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are 
already vested and otherwise amortised on a straight line basis over the 
average period until the benefits vest.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised on the balance sheet represents 
the present value of the deficit or surplus of the defined benefit plans. Any 
recognised surplus is limited to the present value of available refunds or 
reductions in future contributions to the plan.
40u. Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.  
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all 
grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as at 
1 January 2005.
The Group makes equity settled share-based payments to certain employees, 
which are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on a 
straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of 
shares that will eventually vest. For those share schemes with market related 
vesting conditions, the fair value is determined using the Monte Carlo method 
at the grant date. The fair value of share options issued with non-market 
vesting conditions has been calculated using the Black Scholes model. For all 
other share awards, the fair value is determined by reference to the market 
value of the shares at the grant date. For all share schemes with non-market 
vesting conditions, the likelihood of vesting has been taken into account when 
determining the relevant charge. Vesting assumptions are reviewed during 
each reporting period to ensure they reflect current expectations.
40v. Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) transactions
Where the Group disposes of a portion of a South African based subsidiary  
or operation to a BEE company at a discount to fair value, the transaction is 
considered to be a share-based payment (in line with the principle contained  
in South Africa interpretation AC 503 Accounting for Black Economic 
Empowerment (BEE) Transactions). 
The discount provided or value given is calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 
and included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
40w. Foreign currency transactions and translation
Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are recognised in the 
functional currencies of the companies at the exchange rate ruling on the date  
of the transaction. At each reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities that 
are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing 
on the reporting date. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in 
the income statement for the period and are classified as either operating or 
financing depending on the nature of the monetary item giving rise to them.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical  
cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date  
of the transaction.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations  
are translated into the presentation currency of the Group at exchange rates 
prevailing on the reporting date. Income and expense items are translated  
at the average exchange rates for the period where these approximate the  
rates at the dates of the transactions. Any exchange differences arising are 
classified within the statement of comprehensive income and transferred to 
the Group’s cumulative translation adjustment reserve. Exchange differences 
on foreign currency balances with foreign operations for which settlement is 
neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, and therefore 
form part of the Group’s net investment in these foreign operations, are offset 
in the cumulative translation adjustment reserve.
Cumulative translation differences are recycled from equity and recognised  
as income or expense on disposal of the operation to which they relate.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign entities 
are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
40x. Leases
In addition to lease contracts, other significant contracts are assessed to 
determine whether, in substance, they are or contain a lease. This includes 
assessment of whether the arrangement is dependent on use of a specific 
asset and the right to use that asset is conveyed through the contract.
Rental costs under operating leases are recognised in the income statement 
in equal annual amounts over the lease term. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES 210 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
41. ACCOUNTING POLICY CHANGES – RESTATEMENTS
As discussed in note 2, the Group has restated the financial performance and position of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012 to reflect the 
adoption of IFRS 11, IFRIC 20 and IAS 19R. The quantitative impact of adopting these standards on the prior year consolidated financial statements is set out in 
the tables below.
Adjustments to the Consolidated income statement
US$ million
Year ended 
31.12.12
as previously 
stated IFRS 11 IFRIC 20 IAS 19R
Year ended 
31.12.12
restated
Group revenue 28,761  (81)  – –  28,680 
Total operating costs
(1)
 (30,449)  78 91 –   (30,280)
Share of net income from associates and joint ventures  432  (7) (1) (3)   421
Non-operating special items and remeasurements 1,394 – 2 – 1,396
Net finance (costs)/income  (377) 14   –  (25)  (388)
Income tax expense  (375)  (4)  (20) 6  (393)
Non-controlling interests (879)  –  (27)  –  (906)
Loss for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company  (1,493)  –  45  (22)  (1,470)
(1) 
Restatements to operating costs include a decrease in depreciation of $5 million due to IFRS 11 and an increase in depreciation of $90 million due to IFRIC 20. 
Adjustments to the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
US$ million
Year ended 
31.12.12
as previously 
stated IFRS 11 IFRIC 20 IAS 19R
Year ended 
31.12.12
restated
Loss for the financial year (614) – 72 (22) (564)
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to the income statement          
Net exchange difference on translation of foreign operations (including associates  
and joint ventures) (747) – (3) – (750)
Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified 60 – – – 60 
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement          
Remeasurement of net retirement benefit obligation 165 – – 25  190 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ income recognised directly in equity, net of tax 11 – – 3 14 
Tax on items recognised directly in equity that will not be reclassified (19) – – (6) (25)
Items transferred from equity 79 – – – 79 
Total comprehensive expense for the financial year (1,065) – 69 – (996)
Adjustments to the Consolidated balance sheet
At 31 December 2012
US$ million
31.12.12
as previously 
stated IFRS 11 IFRIC 20 IAS 19R
31.12.12
restated
Property, plant and equipment
(1)
 45,089 (292)  (66)  – 44,731
Investments in associates and joint ventures 3,063 99 – – 3,162
Financial asset investments (non-current) 2,278 111 – – 2,389
Short term borrowings (2,604) 119 –  – (2,485)
Deferred tax liabilities  (6,069) – 18  – (6,051)
Retained earnings  (40,388) – 45  – (40,343)
Non-controlling interests (6,130) – 3  –  (6,127)
Other assets, liabilities and equity
(2)
4,761 (37)  –  –  4,724
(1) 
The adjustment to property, plant and equipment in relation to IFRIC 20 includes the $155 million write-off of opening stripping assets which do not relate to identifiable components of 
orebodies and depreciation of $34 million in excess of amounts previously charged to operating costs, offset by $123 million of net additional capitalisation.
(2) 
Restatements of the balance sheet at 31 December 2012 also had an immaterial impact on intangible assets, environmental rehabilitation trusts, trade and other receivables (non-current), 
deferred tax assets, other non-current assets, inventories, trade and other receivables (current), cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables (current), provisions for liabilities and 
charges (current) and other reserves.
At 1 January 2012
US$ million
01.01.12
as previously 
stated IFRS 11 IFRIC 20 IAS 19R
01.01.12
restated
Property, plant and equipment 40,549 (312) (155) – 40,082 
Investments in associates and joint ventures 5,240  113 (1)  – 5,352 
Financial asset investments (non-current) 2,896  107  –  – 3,003 
Short term borrowings (1,018) 116  –  – (902)
Deferred tax liabilities (5,730) –  37  – (5,693)
Retained earnings (42,342) –  102  – (42,240)
Non-controlling interests (4,097) –  16  – (4,081)
Other assets, liabilities and equity
(1)
 4,502 (24) 1 –  4,479 
(1) 
Restatements of the balance sheet at 1 January 2012 also had an immaterial impact on intangible assets, environmental rehabilitation trusts, trade and other receivables (non-current), deferred 
tax assets, other non-current assets, inventories, trade and other receivables (current), cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables (current), provisions for liabilities and charges 
(current) and other reserves.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 211
Financial statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES
41. ACCOUNTING POLICY CHANGES – RESTATEMENTS continued
Adjustments to the Consolidated cash flow statement
US$ million
Year ended 
31.12.12
as previously 
stated IFRS 11 IFRIC 20
(1)
IAS 19R
Year ended 
31.12.12
restated
Cash flows from operations 7,021  (7)  356  – 7,370
Dividends from associates and joint ventures  286  8 – –  294
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment  (5,607)  4 (356) –  (5,959)
Other investing and financing cash flows  (4,009)  – – –  (4,009)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents  (2,309) 5 – –  (2,304)
(1) 
The adjustment is due to a re-presentation of cash flows to better reflect internal management reporting following the adoption of IFRIC 20.
Non-GAAP data
US$ million
Year ended 
31.12.12
as previously 
stated IFRS 11 IFRIC 20 IAS 19R
Year ended 
31.12.12
restated
Underlying EBITDA 8,686 – 174 – 8,860 
Depreciation and amortisation
(1)
2,522 – 85 – 2,607
Underlying operating profit 6,164 – 89 – 6,253 
Underlying earnings 2,839  – 43 (22) 2,860 
Net debt (8,615) 105 – – (8,510)
(1) 
Includes attributable share of depreciation and amortisation in associates and joint ventures. Depreciation and amortisation excluding associates and joint ventures increased by $90 million in 
2012 due to the adoption of IFRIC 20. 212 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE PARENT COMPANY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Balance sheet of the Company, Anglo American plc, as at 31 December 2013
US$ million Note 2013 2012
Fixed assets
Fixed asset investments 1 13,278 12,361
Current assets
Amounts due from subsidiaries 14,238 14,950
Prepayments and other debtors 6 4
Cash at bank and in hand 33 41
 14,277 14,995
Creditors due within one year
Amounts owed to group undertakings (408) (448)
Other creditors (5) (4)
(413) (452)
Net current assets 13,864 14,543
Total assets less current liabilities 27,142 26,904
Net assets 27,142 26,904
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 2 772 772
Share premium account 2 4,358 4,357
Capital redemption reserve 2 115 115
Other reserves 2 1,955 1,955
Share-based payment reserve 2 1 1
Profit and loss account 2 19,941 19,704
Total shareholders’ funds (equity) 27,142 26,904
The financial statements of Anglo American plc, registered number 03564138, were approved by the Board of directors on 13 February 2014 and signed on its 
behalf by:
Mark Cutifani René Médori
Chief Executive Finance Director  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 213
Financial statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE PARENT COMPANY
1) Fixed asset investments
Investment in subsidiaries
US$ million 2013 2012
Cost
At 1 January 12,378 13,374
Capital contributions
(1)
 110 147
Additions 807 2,776
Capital reduction – (823)
Transfer to subsidiary – (3,096)
At 31 December 13,295 12,378
Provisions for impairment
At 1 January (17) (328)
Impairment charge – (9)
Transfer to subsidiary – 320
At 31 December (17) (17)
Net book value 13,278 12,361
(1) 
This amount is net of $30 million (2012: $14 million) of intra-group recharges.
During 2013 Anglo American plc (the Company) increased its investment in Anglo American Services (UK) Limited by $807 million in return for 4,935 
additional shares.
2) Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
US$ million
Called-up 
share capital
Share 
premium 
account
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Other
 reserves
(1)
Share-based 
payment 
reserve
Convertible 
debt reserve
Profit  
and loss
 account
(2)
Total
Balance at 1 January 2012 738 2,714 115 1,955 1 355 18,780 24,658
Profit for the financial year – – – – – – 1,152 1,152
Dividends payable to Company shareholders
(3)
– – – – – – (599) (599)
Issue of treasury shares under employee share 
schemes – – – – – – 24 24
Share-based payments – – – – 1 – – 1
Capital contribution to Group undertakings – – – – – – 161 161
Shares issued on conversion of bond 34 1,643 – – – (355) 185 1,507
Transfer between share-based payment reserve 
and profit and loss account – – – – (1) – 1 –
Balance at 1 January 2013 772  4,357  115  1,955  1  –  19,704  26,904 
Profit for the financial year –  –  –  –  –  –  700  700 
Dividends payable to Company shareholders
(3)
 –  –  –  –  –  – (618) (618) 
Issue of treasury shares under employee share 
schemes –  –  –  –  –  –  15  15 
Capital contribution to Group undertakings –  –  –  –  –  –  140  140 
Other –  1  –  –  –  –  –  1 
Balance at 31 December 2013 772  4,358  115  1,955  1  –  19,941  27,142 
(1) 
At 31 December 2013 other reserves of $1,955 million (2012: $1,955 million) were not distributable under the Companies Act 2006.
(2) 
At 31 December 2013 $2,685 million (2012: $2,685 million) of the Company profit and loss account of $19,941 million (2012: $19,704 million) was not distributable under the Companies Act 2006.
(3) 
Dividends payable relate only to shareholders on the United Kingdom principal register excluding dividends waived by Greenwood Nominees Limited as nominees for Butterfield Trust 
(Guernsey) Limited, the trustee for the Anglo American employee share scheme. Dividends paid to shareholders on the Johannesburg branch register are distributed by a South African 
subsidiary in accordance with the terms of the Dividend Access Share Provisions of Anglo American plc’s Articles of Association. The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the 
year ended 31 December 2013 of 53 US cents per share, see note 10 of the Consolidated financial statements.
The audit fee in respect of the Company was $8,133 (2012: $7,792). Fees payable to Deloitte for non-audit services to the Company are not required  
to be disclosed because they are included within the consolidated disclosure in note 34. 214 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE PARENT COMPANY
3) Accounting policies: Anglo American plc, the Company
The Company balance sheet and related notes have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP)) and in accordance with UK company law. The financial information has been prepared on a historical cost basis as 
modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of 
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. Actual results may differ 
from those estimated.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company is not presented as part of these financial statements. 
The profit after tax for the year of the Company amounted to $700 million (2012: $1,152 million).
Significant accounting policies
Investments
Investments represent equity holdings in subsidiaries and are held at cost less provision for impairment.
Share-based payments
The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share-based Payment.
The Company makes equity settled share-based payments to the directors, which are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on a straight 
line basis over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. For those share schemes with market vesting 
conditions, the fair value is determined using a Monte Carlo model at the grant date. The fair value of share options issued with non-market vesting conditions 
has been calculated using a Black Scholes model. For all other share awards, the fair value is determined by reference to the market value of the share at the 
grant date. For all share schemes with non-market vesting conditions, the likelihood of vesting has been taken into account when determining the associated 
charge. Vesting assumptions are reviewed during each reporting period to ensure they reflect current expectations.
The Company also makes equity settled share-based payments to certain employees of certain subsidiary undertakings. Equity settled share-based 
payments that are made to employees of the Company’s subsidiaries are treated as increases in equity over the vesting period of the award, with a 
corresponding increase in the Company’s investments in subsidiaries, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Any payments received from subsidiaries are applied to reduce the related increases in investments in subsidiaries.
Accounting for share-based payments is the same as under IFRS 2 and details on the schemes and option pricing models relevant to the charge included  
in the Company financial statements are set out in note 29 to the Consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013.  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 215
Financial statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Revenue
(1)
Underlying EBITDA
(2)
Underlying operating 
profit/(loss)
(3)
Underlying earnings
US$ million 2013 2012 2013
2012
restated
(4)
2013
2012
restated
(4)
2013
2012
restated
(4)
Iron Ore and Manganese 6,517 6,403 3,390 3,262 3,119 3,011 1,125 1,046
Kumba Iron Ore 5,643 5,572 3,266 3,239 3,047 3,042 1,171
(5)
1,107
Iron Ore Brazil – – (27) (1) (31) (5) (51) (43)
Samancor 874 831 258 153 210 103 92 83
Projects and corporate – – (107) (129) (107) (129) (87)
(5)
(101) 
Metallurgical Coal 3,396 3,889 612 877 46 405 60 275
Australia 3,138 3,657 665 940 176 519 132 365
Canada 258 232 7 13 (70) (38) (21) (27)
Projects and corporate – – (60) (76) (60) (76) (51) (63)
Thermal Coal 3,004 3,447 735 972 541 793 397 523
South Africa 2,187 2,477 479 607 356 482 283 312
Colombia 817 970 299 412 228 358 151 251
Projects and corporate – – (43) (47) (43) (47) (37) (40)
Copper 5,392 5,122 2,402 2,288 1,739 1,736 803 941
Anglo American Sur  3,300 3,186 1,642 1,762 1,220 1,402 464 695
Anglo American Norte 778 934 191 336 135 288 85 237
Collahuasi 1,314 1,002 718 484 533 340 386 243
Projects and corporate – – (149) (294) (149) (294) (132) (234)
Nickel 136 336 (37) 50 (44) 26 (54) 10
Codemin 136 176 23 53 17 47 5 31
Loma de Níquel – 160 (5) 46 (5) 29 (7) 17
Barro Alto – – (38) (7) (39) (8) (38) (5)
Projects and corporate – – (17) (42) (17) (42) (14) (33)
Niobium and Phosphates 726 770 176 196 150 169 92 107
Niobium 182 173 94 85 89 81 48 47
Phosphates 544 597 100 114 79 91 57 63
Projects and corporate – – (18) (3) (18) (3) (13) (3)
Platinum 5,688 5,489 1,048 580 464 (120) 287 (225)
Operations 5,688 5,489 1,121 656 537 (44) 356 (155)
Projects and corporate – – (73) (76) (73) (76) (69) (70)
Diamonds
(6)
 6,404 4,028 1,451 712 1,003 474 532 289
Operations 6,404 4,028 1,516 734 1,068 496 591 309
Projects and corporate – – (65) (22) (65) (22) (59) (20)
Other Mining and Industrial 1,795 3,296 81 289 (13) 168 (2) 121
Amapá
(7)
 100 327 – 89 – 54 – 27
Tarmac 1,695 2,171 88 148 (6) 73 5 65
Scaw Metals
(8)
– 798 – 60 – 49 – 37
Projects and corporate – – (7) (8) (7) (8) (7) (8)
Exploration – – (205) (206) (207) (206) (190) (195)
Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs 5 5 (133) (160) (178) (203) (377) (32)
 33,063 32,785 9,520 8,860 6,620 6,253 2,673 2,860
(1) 
Revenue includes the Group’s attributable share of revenue of associates and joint ventures. Revenue for copper is shown after deduction of treatment and refining charges (TC/RCs).
(2) 
Underlying EBITDA is underlying operating profit before depreciation and amortisation in subsidiaries and joint operations and includes attributable share of underlying operating profit before 
depreciation and amortisation of associates and joint ventures.
(3) 
Underlying operating profit/(loss) is operating profit/(loss) before special items and remeasurements, and includes the Group’s attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ operating  
profit/(loss) before special items and remeasurements. 
(4) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 of the Consolidated financial statements for details.
(5) 
Of the projects and corporate expense, which includes a corporate cost allocation, $63 million (2012: $67 million) relates to Kumba Iron Ore. The total contribution from Kumba Iron Ore  
to the Group’s underlying earnings is $1,108 million (2012: $1,040 million) as reported in the external earnings reconciliation, see page 217.
(6) 
On 16 August 2012 the Group acquired a controlling interest in De Beers (Diamonds segment). De Beers ceased to be an associate of the Group and has been accounted for as a subsidiary 
since this date.
(7) 
The Group disposed of its interest in Amapá in November 2013.
(8) 
The Group disposed of its interest in Scaw Metals in November 2012.
Marketing activities are allocated to the underlying operation to which they relate.
SUMMARY BY BUSINESS OPERATION 216 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
US$ million (unless otherwise stated) 2013
2012
restated
(1)
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
(2)
2005
(2)
2004
(2)
Group revenue including associates and joint ventures 33,063 32,785 36,548 32,929 24,637 32,964 30,559 29,404 24,872 22,610
Less: share of associates’ and joint ventures’ revenue (3,721) (4,105) (5,968) (4,969) (3,779) (6,653) (5,089) (4,413) (4,740) (5,429)
Group revenue 29,342 28,680 30,580 27,960 20,858 26,311 25,470 24,991 20,132 17,181
Underlying operating profit including associates and joint 
ventures before special items and remeasurements 6,620 6,253 11,095 9,763 4,957 10,085 9,590 8,888 5,549 3,832
Special items and remeasurements (excluding financing and tax 
special items and remeasurements) (4,310) (5,755) (44) 1,727 (208) (330) (227) 24 16 556
Net finance costs (including financing special items and 
remeasurements), tax and non-controlling interests of associates 
and joint ventures (204) (281) (452) (423) (313) (783) (434) (398) (315) (391)
Total profit from operations, associates and joint ventures 2,106 217 10,599 11,067 4,436 8,972 8,929 8,514 5,250 3,997
Net finance (costs)/income (including financing special items 
and remeasurements) (406) (388) 183 (139) (407) (401) (108) (71) (220) (385)
Profit/(loss) before tax 1,700 (171) 10,782 10,928 4,029 8,571 8,821 8,443 5,030 3,612
Income tax expense (including special items and remeasurements) (1,274) (393) (2,860) (2,809) (1,117) (2,451) (2,693) (2,518) (1,208) (765)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year – continuing operations 426 (564) 7,922 8,119 2,912 6,120 6,128 5,925 3,822 2,847
Profit for the financial year – discontinued operations – – – – – – 2,044 997 111 1,094
Profit/(loss) for the financial year – total Group 426 (564) 7,922 8,119 2,912 6,120 8,172 6,922 3,933 3,941
Non-controlling interests (1,387) (906) (1,753) (1,575) (487) (905) (868) (736) (412) (440)
(Loss)/profit attributable to equity shareholders of 
the Company (961) (1,470) 6,169 6,544 2,425 5,215 7,304 6,186 3,521 3,501
Underlying earnings
(3)
 – continuing operations 2,673 2,860 6,120 4,976 2,569 5,237 5,477 5,019 3,335 2,178
Underlying earnings
(3)
 – discontinued operations – – – – – – 284 452 401 506
Underlying earnings
(3)
 – total Group 2,673 2,860 6,120 4,976 2,569 5,237 5,761 5,471 3,736 2,684
(Loss)/earnings per share (US$) – continuing operations (0.75) (1.17) 5.10 5.43 2.02 4.34 4.04 3.51 2.35 1.84
Earnings per share (US$) – discontinued operations – – – – – – 1.54 0.70 0.08 0.60
(Loss)/earnings per share (US$) – total Group (0.75) (1.17) 5.10 5.43 2.02 4.34 5.58 4.21 2.43 2.44
Underlying earnings per share (US$) – continuing operations 2.09 2.28 5.06 4.13 2.14 4.36 4.18 3.42 2.30 1.52
Underlying earnings per share (US$) – discontinued operations – – – – – – 0.22 0.31 0.28 0.35
Underlying earnings per share (US$) – total Group 2.09 2.28 5.06 4.13 2.14 4.36 4.40 3.73 2.58 1.87
Ordinary dividend per share (US cents) 85.0 85.0 74.0 65.0 – 44.0 124.0 108.0 90.0 70.0
Special dividend per share (US cents) – – – – – – – 67.0 33.0 –
Weighted average basic number of shares outstanding (million) 1,281 1,254 1,210 1,206 1,202 1,202 1,309 1,468 1,447 1,434
Underlying EBITDA
(4)
 – continuing operations 9,520 8,860 13,348 11,983 6,930 11,847 11,171 10,431 7,172 5,359
Underlying EBITDA
(4)
 – discontinued operations – – – – – – 961 1,766 1,787 1,672
Underlying EBITDA
(4)
 – total Group 9,520 8,860 13,348 11,983 6,930 11,847 12,132 12,197 8,959 7,031
Underlying EBITDA interest cover
(5)
 – total Group 51.5 52.1 n/a 42.0 27.4 28.3 42.0 45.5 20.0 18.5
Operating margin (before special items and remeasurements) – 
total Group 20.0% 19.1% 30.4% 29.6% 20.1% 30.6% 28.4% 25.4% 18.5% 14.7%
Ordinary dividend cover (based on underlying earnings per share) –  
total Group 2.5 2.7 6.8 6.4 – 9.9 3.5 3.5 2.9 2.7
Balance sheet
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 45,588 49,300 42,871 42,126 37,974 32,551 25,090 25,632 33,368 35,816
Other non-current assets and investments
(6)
 9,418 8,689 10,269 9,852 7,303 7,607 9,271 8,258 5,585 5,547
Working capital 3,771 3,751 2,093 2,385 2,168 861 1,966 3,096 3,538 3,543
Other net current liabilities
(6)
(1,559) (986) (1,683) (785) (272) (840) (911) (1,430) (1,429) (611)
Other non-current liabilities and obligations
(6)
 (9,710) (10,692) (9,220) (8,757) (8,487) (7,567) (6,387) (5,826) (8,491) (8,339)
Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings
(7)
(10,144) (8,555) (1,141) (7,038) (11,046) (11,051) (5,170) (3,244) (4,993) (8,243)
Net assets classified as held for sale – 2,231 – 188 429 195 471 641 – –
Net assets 37,364 43,738 43,189 37,971 28,069 21,756 24,330 27,127 27,578 27,713
Non-controlling interests (5,693) (6,127) (4,097) (3,732) (1,948) (1,535) (1,869) (2,856) (3,957) (4,588)
Equity attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 31,671 37,611 39,092 34,239 26,121 20,221 22,461 24,271 23,621 23,125
Total capital
(8)
 48,016 52,248 44,563 45,355 39,349 33,096 29,181 30,258 32,558 35,806
Cash flows from operations – continuing operations 7,729 7,370 11,498 9,924 4,904 9,579 9,375 9,012 5,963 3,857
Cash flows from operations – discontinued operations – – – – – – 470 1,045 1,302 1,434
Cash flows from operations – total Group 7,729 7,370 11,498 9,924 4,904 9,579 9,845 10,057 7,265 5,291
Dividends received from associates, joint ventures and financial 
asset investments – continuing operations 264 348 403 285 639 659 311 251 468 380
Dividends received from associates, joint ventures and financial 
asset investments – discontinued operations – – – – – – 52 37 2 16
Dividends received from associates, joint ventures and financial 
asset investments – total Group 264 348 403 285 639 659 363 288 470 396
EBITDA/average total capital
(8)
 – total Group 19.0% 18.3% 29.7% 28.3% 19.1% 38.0% 40.8% 38.8% 26.2% 21.3%
Net debt to total capital (gearing)
(9)
22.2% 16.3% 3.1% 16.3% 28.7% 34.3% 16.6% 10.3% 15.3% 22.6%
(1) 
Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. See note 2 of the Consolidated financial statements for details.
(2) 
Comparatives for 2006, 2005 and 2004 were adjusted in the 2007 Annual Report to reclassify amounts relating to discontinued operations where applicable.
(3) 
Underlying earnings is profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company before special items and remeasurements, and is therefore presented after net finance costs, income tax and 
non-controlling interests.
(4) 
Underlying EBITDA is operating profit before special items and remeasurements, depreciation and amortisation in subsidiaries and joint operations and includes attributable share of EBITDA 
of associates and joint ventures.
(5) 
Underlying EBITDA interest cover is underlying EBITDA divided by net finance costs, excluding other net financial income, exchange gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities, 
unwinding of discount relating to provisions and other liabilities, financing special items and remeasurements, and including attributable share of associates’ and joint ventures’ net interest 
expense, which in 2011 resulted in a net finance income and therefore the ratio is not applicable.
(6) 
Comparatives for 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were adjusted in the 2009 Annual Report in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements – Improvements to reclassify non-hedge 
derivatives whose expected settlement date was more than one year from the period end from current to non-current.
(7) 
This differs from the Group’s measure of ‘Net debt’ as it excludes the net cash/(debt) of disposal groups (2013: nil; 2012: $213 million; 2011: nil; 2010: $59 million; 2009: $48 million; 2008: 
$8 million; 2007: $(69) million; 2006: $(80) million; 2005: nil; 2004: nil) and excludes related hedges (2013: net liabilities of $508 million; 2012: net liabilities of $168 million; 2011: net liabilities 
of $233 million; 2010: net liabilities of $405 million; 2009: net liabilities of $285 million; 2008: net liabilities of $297 million; 2007: net assets of $388 million; 2006: net assets of $193 million;  
2005: nil; 2004: nil). See note 24 of the Consolidated financial statements for further details.
(8) 
Total capital is net assets excluding net debt.
(9) 
Net debt to total capital is calculated as net debt (including related hedges and net debt in disposal groups) divided by total capital. Comparatives are presented on a consistent basis.
KEY FINANCIAL DATA  Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 217
Financial statements
Note only key reported lines are reconciled.
Kumba Iron Ore Limited
US$ million 2013
2012
restated
(1)
IFRS headline earnings 1,604 1,534
Exploration 14 16
Kumba Envision Trust
(2)
 33 53
Other adjustments 2 3
  1,653 1,606
Non-controlling interests (501) (513)
Elimination of intercompany interest 12 4
Depreciation on assets fair valued on acquisition (net of tax) (6) (8)
Corporate cost allocation (50) (49)
Contribution to Anglo American underlying earnings 1,108 1,040
(1) 
Headline and underlying earnings have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements.
(2) 
The Kumba Envision Trust charge is included in IFRS headline earnings but is a non-operating special item so is excluded from underlying earnings.
Anglo American Platinum Limited
US$ million 2013 2012
IFRS headline earnings/(loss) 152 (170)
Exploration 2 4
Operating and financing remeasurements (net of tax) (8) 2
Restructuring costs included in headline earnings (net of tax) 105 –
BEE transactions and related charges (44) –
Tax special item included in headline earnings 188 –
Other adjustments 5 –
 400 (164)
Non-controlling interests (80) 33
Elimination of intercompany interest 67 10
Depreciation on assets fair valued on acquisition (net of tax) (36) (41)
Corporate cost allocation (64) (63)
Contribution to Anglo American underlying earnings/(loss) 287 (225)
RECONCILIATION OF SUBSIDIARIES’ REPORTED EARNINGS TO  
THE UNDERLYING EARNINGS INCLUDED IN THE CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 201 3
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION 218 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
US$ exchange rates 2013 2012
Year end spot rates
Rand 10.51 8.47
Brazilian real 2.36 2.05
Sterling 0.60 0.62
Australian dollar 1.12 0.96
Euro 0.73 0.76
Chilean peso 526 479
Botswana pula 8.76 7.79
Average rates for the year
Rand 9.65 8.21
Brazilian real 2.16 1.95
Sterling 0.64 0.63
Australian dollar 1.03 0.97
Euro 0.75 0.78
Chilean peso 495 486
Botswana pula 8.39 7.61
Commodity prices 2013 2012
Year end spot prices
Iron ore (FOB Australia)
(1)
US$/tonne 123 138
Thermal coal (FOB South Africa)
(2)
US$/tonne 85 89
Thermal coal (FOB Australia)
(2)
US$/tonne 85 91
Hard coking coal (FOB Australia)
(3)
US$/tonne 132 170
Copper
(4)
US cents/lb 335 359
Nickel
(4)
US cents/lb 663 771
Platinum
(5)
US$/oz 1,357 1,523
Palladium
(5)
US$/oz 716 699
Rhodium
(5)
US$/oz 975 1,080
Average market prices for the year
Iron ore (FOB Australia)
(1)
US$/tonne 127 122
Thermal coal (FOB South Africa)
(2)
US$/tonne 80 93
Thermal coal (FOB Australia)
(2)
US$/tonne 84 94
Hard coking coal (FOB Australia)
(6)
US$/tonne 159 210
Copper
(4)
US cents/lb 332 361
Nickel
(4)
US cents/lb 680 794
Platinum
(5)
US$/oz 1,485 1,551
Palladium
(5)
US$/oz 725 644
Rhodium
(5)
US$/oz 1,066 1,275
(1) 
Source: Platts.
(2) 
Source: McCloskey.
(3) 
Source: Represents the quarter four benchmark.
(4) 
Source: London Metal Exchange (LME) daily prices.
(5) 
Source: London Platinum and Palladium Market (LPPM).
(6) 
Source: Represents the average quarterly benchmark.
EXCHANGE RATES AND COMMODITY PRICES
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
INTRODUCTION
The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates presented in this  
Annual Report are prepared in accordance with the Anglo American plc 
(AA plc) Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore 
Reserves standard. This standard requires that the Australasian Code for 
Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves 
2012 edition (the JORC Code) be used as a minimum standard. Some 
Anglo American plc subsidiaries have a primary listing in South Africa 
where public reporting is carried out in accordance with the South African 
Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral 
Reserves (the SAMREC Code). The SAMREC Code is similar to the JORC 
Code and the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource terminology appearing  
in this section follows the definitions in both the JORC (2012) and SAMREC  
(2007 Edition as amended July 2009) Codes.
The information on Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources was prepared 
by or under the supervision of Competent Persons as defined in the  
JORC or SAMREC Codes. All Competent Persons have sufficient 
experience relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit  
under consideration and to the activity which they are undertaking. All  
the Competent Persons consent to the inclusion in this report of the 
information in the form and context in which it appears. The names of the 
Competent Persons are lodged with the Anglo American plc Company 
Secretary and are available on request.
Anglo American Group companies are subject to a comprehensive 
programme of reviews aimed at providing assurance in respect of Ore 
Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates. The reviews are conducted by 
suitably qualified Competent Persons from within the Anglo American 
Group, or by independent consultants. The frequency and depth of the 
reviews is a function of the perceived risks and/or uncertainties associated 
with a particular Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource, the overall value 
thereof and time that has lapsed since an independent third party review 
has been conducted. Those operations/projects subject to independent 
third party reviews during the year are indicated in footnotes to the tables.
The JORC and SAMREC Codes require the use of reasonable economic 
assumptions. These include long-range commodity price forecasts which 
are prepared by in-house specialists largely using estimates of future 
supply and demand and long term economic outlooks. Ore Reserves are 
dynamic and are more likely to be affected by fluctuations in the prices  
of commodities, uncertainties in production costs, processing costs and 
other mining, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors which 
may impact the financial condition and prospects of the Group. Mineral 
Resource estimates also change and tend to be influenced mostly by new 
information pertaining to the understanding of the deposit and secondly 
by the conversion to Ore Reserves.
The appropriate Mineral Resource classification is determined by the 
appointed Competent (or Qualified) Persons. The choice of appropriate 
category of Mineral Resource depends upon the quantity, distribution and 
quality of geoscientific information available and the level of confidence in 
these data.
To accommodate the various factors that are important in the development 
of a classified Mineral Resource estimate, a scorecard approach can be 
used. Mineral Resource classification defines the confidence associated 
with different parts of the Mineral Resource. The confidence that is 
assigned refers collectively to the reliability of the Grade and Tonnage 
estimates. This reliability includes consideration for the fidelity of the base 
data, the geological continuity predicated by the level of understanding  
of the geology, the likely precision of the estimated grades and 
understanding of grade variability, as well as various other factors that  
may influence the confidence that can be placed on the Mineral Resource. 
Most business units have developed commodity-specific scorecard-based 
approaches to the classification of their Mineral Resources.
The estimates of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are stated as  
at 31 December 2013. Unless otherwise stated, Mineral Resources are 
additional to (exclusive of) those resources converted to Ore Reserves  
and are reported on a dry tonnes basis. The figures in the tables have  
been rounded and, if used to derive totals and averages, minor differences 
with stated results could occur. Ore Reserves in the context of this Annual 
Report have the same meaning as ‘Mineral Reserves’ as defined by the 
SAMREC Code and the CIM (Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy) 
Definition Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves.
This section of the Annual Report presenting the Ore Reserve and  
Mineral Resource estimates, should be considered the only valid source  
of Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource information for the Anglo American 
group exclusive of Kumba Iron Ore and Anglo American Platinum which 
publish their own independent annual reports.
It is accepted that mine design and planning may include some Inferred 
Mineral Resources. Inferred Mineral Resources in the Life of Mine Plan 
(LOM Plan) are described as ‘Inferred (in LOM Plan)’ separately from the 
remaining Inferred Mineral Resources described as ‘Inferred (ex. LOM 
Plan)’, as required. These resources are declared without application of 
any modifying factors.
The direct legal ownership that Anglo American holds in each operation 
and project is presented as the Attributable Percentage beside the name  
of each entity. Operations and projects which fall below the internal 
threshold for reporting (25% attributable interest) are excluded from the 
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates. Operations and projects 
which were disposed of or for which mining concessions expired during 
2013 and hence not reported are: Amapá and Pebble.
In South Africa, the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development Act, 
Number 28 of 2002 (MPRDA) was implemented on 1 May 2004, and 
effectively transferred custodianship of the previously privately held 
mineral rights to the State. 
A Prospecting Right is a new order right issued in terms of the MPRDA  
that is valid for up to five years, with the possibility of a further extension  
of three years, that can be obtained either by the conversion of existing  
Old Order Prospecting Rights or through new applications. An Exploration 
Right is identical to a Prospecting Right, but is commodity specific in 
respect of petroleum and gas and is valid for up to three years which can 
be renewed for a maximum of three periods not exceeding two years each.
A Mining Right is a new order right issued in terms of the MPRDA valid for 
up to 30 years obtained either by the conversion of an existing Old Order 
Mining Right, or as a new order right pursuant to the exercise of the 
exclusive right of the holder of a new order Prospecting Right, or pursuant 
to an application for a new Mining Right. A Production Right is identical to 
a Mining Right, but is commodity specific in respect of petroleum and gas.
In preparing the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource statement for  
South African assets, Anglo American plc has adopted the following 
reporting principles in respect of Prospecting Rights and Mining Rights:
 • Where applications for new order Mining Rights and Prospecting Rights 
have been submitted and these are still being processed by the relevant 
regulatory authorities, the relevant Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources 
have been included in the statement.
 • Where applications for new order Prospecting Rights have been  
initially refused by the regulatory authorities, but are the subject of 
ongoing legal process and discussions with the relevant authorities  
and where Anglo American plc has reasonable expectations that the 
Prospecting Rights will be granted in due course, the relevant Mineral 
Resources have been included in the statement (any associated 
comments appear in the footnotes).
ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013 219
The summary of Estimated Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources,  
Reserve and Resource Reconciliation Overview, Definitions and Glossary  
are contained in the separate Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource Report 2013  
which is available in the Reporting Centre on the Anglo American website. ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
220 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013
 
IRON ORE  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
KUMBA IRON ORE
The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with The South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral 
Resources and Mineral Reserves (The SAMREC Code, 2007 Edition as amended July 2009). The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and 
Mineral Resources, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately. Anglo American plc’s interest in Kumba Iron Ore Limited is 69.7%. 
Detailed information appears in the Kumba Iron Ore Limited Annual Report. Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
Kumba Iron Ore – Operations
ORE RESERVES
Mine
ROM Tonnes Grade Saleable Product
Attributable % Life Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Kolomela (OP)
(1)
51.5 20 Mt Mt %Fe %Fe Mt %Fe Mt %Fe
Hematite Proved 101.3 107.6 64.4 64.8 101 64.4 107 64.8
Probable 98.7 102.0 64.5 64.0 99 64.5 102 64.0
Total 200.0 209.5 64.4 64.4 200 64.4 209 64.4
Sishen (OP)
(2)
40.5 19 %Fe %Fe
Hematite Proved 428.9 642.9 59.2 59.4 311 65.4 485 65.3
Probable 435.1 276.0 59.1 58.8 311 65.1 201 65.0
Total 864.1 918.9 59.1 59.2 622 65.3 686 65.2
Thabazimbi (OP)
(3)
51.5 9 %Fe %Fe
Hematite Proved 0.5 0.4 62.2 61.1 0 64.4 0 62.9
Probable 10.8 9.0 60.4 60.6 8 62.9 7 62.9
Total 11.3 9.5 60.5 60.6 9 63.0 7 62.9
Kumba Iron Ore – Operations
MINERAL RESOURCES
Tonnes Grade
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012
Kolomela (OP)
(4)
51.5 Mt Mt %Fe %Fe
Hematite Measured 21.9 43.3 64.9 64.9
Indicated 42.0 17.0 63.4 65.2
Measured and Indicated 64.0 60.3 63.9 65.0
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 50.1 50.5 64.2 64.2
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 45.0 55.7 63.3 62.8
Total Inferred 95.2 106.2 63.8 63.5
Sishen (OP)
(5)
40.5 %Fe %Fe
Hematite Measured 295.2 315.1 62.1 61.0
Indicated 143.7 137.3 58.1 58.4
Measured and Indicated 438.9 452.4 60.8 60.2
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 21.6 24.7 53.1 56.0
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 51.8 67.7 55.7 55.0
Total Inferred 73.5 92.5 54.9 55.3
Stockpile Measured 7.3 52.2 53.1 58.1
Indicated 22.8 11.9 50.8 57.7
Measured and Indicated 30.1 64.2 51.4 58.0
Inferred – 3.2 – 56.7
Thabazimbi (OP)
(6)
51.5 %Fe %Fe
Hematite Measured 0.3 0.2 64.0 62.5
Indicated 9.8 10.4 62.8 62.5
Measured and Indicated 10.1 10.7 62.8 62.5
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 1.6 2.8 59.7 60.7
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 4.6 8.2 62.9 62.8
Total Inferred 6.2 11.1 62.1 62.3
MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES. 
Kumba Iron Ore – Projects
MINERAL RESOURCES
Tonnes Grade Grade
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Zandrivierspoort
(7)
25.8 Mt Mt %Fe %Fe %Fe 3 O 4 %Fe 3 O 4
Magnetite and Hematite Measured 107.0 132.9 34.7 35.0 41.5 31.9
Indicated 206.4 177.9 34.4 34.5 42.5 27.5
Measured and Indicated 313.4 310.8 34.5 34.7 42.2 29.4
Inferred 162.7 64.5 34.5 34.2 38.1 23.6
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit. Mine Life = The extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only. 
The tonnage is quoted as dry metric tonnes and abbreviated as Mt for million tonnes. 
The Mineral Resources are constrained by a resource pit shell, which defines the spatial limits of eventual economic extraction.
Stockpile material is required to be blended to achieve suitable product specifications. 
 
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or 
Measured Resource after continued exploration.  
 
Audits related to the generation of the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were carried out by independent consultants during 2013 at Sishen and Zandrivierspoort. ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013 221
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
IRON ORE  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
(1) 
Kolomela – Ore Reserves: Ore Reserves are reported above a cut-off of 42.0 %Fe inclusive of dilution. The decrease is primarily due to production. The Mine 
Life decreases due to a higher planned annual production rate.
(2) 
Sishen – Ore Reserves: Ore Reserves are reported above a cut-off of 40.0 %Fe inclusive of dilution. The decrease is primarily due to production as well as  
a decrease in the JIG reserve (ferruginised Shale material occurring in the hanging wall of the main Hematite ore zone) due to revised resource estimation 
methods. The decrease in JIG reserves is offset by geological model updates following additional infill drilling. Re-classification of Proved to Probable Ore 
Reserves took place pending grant of the Mining Right (applied for in 2013) beneath the Railway Properties potentially impacting Ore Reserves underneath  
and West of the Railway Properties.
(3) 
Thabazimbi – Ore Reserves: Ore Reserves are reported above a cut-off of 54.3 %Fe inclusive of dilution. The increase is due to the conversion of additional 
Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves as a result of additional drilling information which offsets production. The Mine Life increases due  
to a lower planned annual production rate as well as the increase in Ore Reserves.
(4) 
Kolomela – Mineral Resources: Mineral Resources are reported above a cut-off of 50.0 %Fe. The decrease is due to additional drilling which was used to refine 
the geological model of the Ploegfontein orebody. The re-classification of Measured to Indicated Resources is the result of a refined classification methodology 
which places more weight on sample representivity.
(5) 
Sishen – Mineral Resources: Mineral Resources are reported above a cut-off of 40.0 %Fe. The decrease is mainly due to a revision of the Shale and Flagstone 
Mineral Resource estimation and classification.  
Stockpile material is considered as eventually economically extractable as local grade variations not identified by the grade estimation may result in this material 
becoming part of the run-of-mine blend to be converted into Saleable Product. The Stockpile Resource estimates decrease due to a portion of this material now 
included in the Life of Mine Plan.
(6) 
Thabazimbi – Mineral Resources: Mineral Resources are reported above a cut-off of 55.0 %Fe. The decrease can primarily be attributed to the revision of 
estimation methods applied at Donkerpoort Nek, where excessive extrapolation beyond borehole data has been addressed.
(7) 
Zandrivierspoort: The Zandrivierspoort Project Mineral Resources are reported above a cut-off of 21.7 %Fe. The increase is due to updated long-term forward 
looking price assumptions which aligns the Zandrivierspoort Project with the Kumba mining operations.
 
Assumption with respect to Mineral Tenure
Sishen: On 21 December 201 1, the South African High Court ruled that Sishen Iron Ore Company (SIOC), the operating company of Kumba Iron Ore, was the 
exclusive holder of mineral rights for iron ore and quartzite on the mining rights area where the Sishen Mine is situated. The High Court accordingly set aside the 
grant of the prospecting right granted by the Department of Mineral Rights (DMR) to Imperial Crown Trading 289 (Pty) Ltd (ICT). Both the DMR and ICT lodged  
an appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) against the ruling by the High Court, which appeal was heard by the SCA on 19 February 2013.  
 
On 28 March 2013 the SCA dismissed the appeals as lodged by the DMR and ICT. The SCA held that, as a matter of law and as at midnight on 30 April 2009, SIOC 
became the sole holder of the mining right to iron ore in respect of the Sishen Mine, after AMSA failed to convert its undivided share of the old order mining right.  
On 23 April 2013, both ICT and the DMR had lodged applications for leave to appeal against the SCA judgment to the Constitutional Court (CC). The CC hearing  
was held on 3 September 2013.  
On 12 December 2013, the CC granted the DMR’s appeal in part against the SCA judgment. In a detailed judgment, the CC clarified that SIOC, when it lodged its 
application for conversion of its old order right, converted only the right it held at that time (being a 78.6% undivided share in the Sishen mining right). The CC further 
held that AMSA retained the right to lodge its old order right (21.4% undivided share) for conversion before midnight on 30 April 2009, but failed to do so. As a 
consequence of such failure by AMSA, the 21.4% undivided right remained available for allocation by the DMR. 
The Constitutional Court ruled further that, based on the provisions of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (the MPRDA), SIOC is the only party 
competent to apply for and be granted the residual (21.4%) mining right. SIOC therefore has a legitimate expectation for the grant of the 21.4% mining right, based 
on the finding by the Constitutional Court that SIOC is the only entity capable of applying for, and being granted, the residual right, however, at the time of reporting 
the right has not yet been granted and therefore the reduction in SIOC’s attributable shareholding from 100% to 78.6% thus reducing the AA plc attributable interest 
to 40.5%. ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
222 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013
 
IRON ORE  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
IRON ORE BRAZIL
The Ore Reserves and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral 
Resources and Ore Reserves (The JORC Code, 2012) as a minimum standard. The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral 
Resources, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately. Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies. 
 
The Minas-Rio project is located in the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil and will include open pit mines and a beneficiation plant producing high-grade pellet feed 
which will be transported, through a slurry pipeline to the Port of Açu in the state of Rio de Janeiro. The project will largely be based on the two main deposits of 
Serra do Sapo and Itapanhoacanga. Two ore types, Friable and Compact Itabirite, have been identified at Serra do Sapo and Itapanhoacanga. Only the Friable 
material at Serra do Sapo is being considered for Phase 1 of the Minas-Rio project. The planned annual capacity of Phase 1 is 26.5 Mtpa of iron ore pellet feed 
(wet tonnes). Execution of this project remains subject to the normal regulatory processes of the Brazilian authorities.
Iron Ore Brazil – Projects
ORE RESERVES
Mine
ROM Tonnes Grade Saleable Product
Attributable % Life Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Serra do Sapo (OP)
(1)(2)
100 28 Mt Mt %Fe %Fe Mt %Fe Mt %Fe
Friable Itabirite and Hematite Proved – – – – – – – –
Probable 1,385.3 1,452.8 38.8 38.8 686 67.5 685 67.5
Total 1,385.3 1,452.8 38.8 38.8 686 67.5 685 67.5
Iron Ore Brazil – Projects
MINERAL RESOURCES
Tonnes Grade
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012
Itapanhoacanga
(1)(3)
100 Mt Mt %Fe %Fe
Friable Itabirite and Hematite Measured 31.0 32.3 40.6 40.6
Indicated 117.5 122.3 41.3 41.3
Measured and Indicated 148.6 154.5 41.1 41.1
Inferred 114.5 119.1 40.4 40.9
Compact Itabirite Measured 23.2 23.2 33.6 33.6
Indicated 73.4 73.6 34.5 34.5
Measured and Indicated 96.6 96.8 34.3 34.3
Inferred 57.0 57.2 34.5 34.5
Serra do Sapo (OP)
(1)(4)
100 %Fe %Fe
Friable Itabirite and Hematite Measured 187.7 148.7 31.8 31.6
Indicated 229.4 236.7 33.3 33.7
Measured and Indicated 417.1 385.4 32.6 32.9
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 50.4 108.5 38.4 38.3
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 21.8 58.7 32.3 32.9
Total Inferred 72.1 167.1 36.5 36.4
Compact Itabirite Measured 737.7 559.9 30.5 31.0
Indicated 2,092.9 2,251.3 31.2 31.1
Measured and Indicated 2,830.5 2,811.2 31.0 31.1
Inferred 201.1 476.8 31.2 31.1
Serro
(5)
100 %Fe %Fe
Friable Itabirite and Hematite Measured 4.7 – 44.7 –
Indicated 87.3 9.5 41.0 63.6
Measured and Indicated 92.0 9.5 41.2 63.6
Inferred 32.8 74.2 41.0 35.3
Compact Itabirite Measured 7.3 – 33.0 –
Indicated 274.4 – 32.1 –
Measured and Indicated 281.7 – 32.1 –
Inferred 111.1 308.2 34.6 31.6
MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES.  
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit. Mine Life = The extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only.
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or 
Measured Resource after continued exploration.
(1) 
Minas-Rio Project: The Minas-Rio Project comprises the following sub-areas: Itapanhoacanga and Serra do Sapo. The cut-off grade is 25.0 %Fe.  
At Itapanhoacanga, Friable Itabirite and Hematite includes Friable Itabirite, Semi-Compact Itabirite, Soft Hematite and Hard Hematite. 
At Serra do Sapo Friable Itabirite and Hematite includes Friable Itabirite, Semi-Compact Itabirite, High Alumina Friable Itabirite, Soft Hematite and Canga. 
Metallurgical test work indicates that the Compact Itabirite at Serra do Sapo is softer than Compact Itabirite mined in the Carajás and Iron Quadrangle areas. 
From 2014 onwards at Serra do Sapo, Compact Itabirite will be referred to as Itabirite and Semi-Compact Itabirite as Semi-Friable Itabirite.
(2) 
Serra do Sapo – Ore Reserves: ROM Tonnes and grades are on a dry basis. In 2012 tonnages were reported on a wet basis with an average moisture content of 
4.2 wt% for Friable ore. Saleable Product tonnes are on a wet basis (average moisture content is 8.0 wt% of the wet mass) with quality stated on a dry basis. The 
decrease is primarily due to a change in reporting basis from wet to dry tonnage, with updated pit slope angles and increased costs also contributing to the 
decrease. This is partially offset by an update of the block model as a result of additional drilling and new pit optimisation undertaken.  
The Ore Reserves include 2.5Mt (at 48.8 %Fe) of material stockpiled during pre-stripping operations.
(3) 
Itapanhoacanga – Mineral Resources: In-situ tonnes and grade are on a dry basis. In 2012 in-situ tonnes were reported with a moisture content 3.9 wt% for the 
friable material and 0.2 wt% for the compact material. The decrease in Mineral Resources is as a result of a change in reporting basis from wet to dry tonnage.
(4) 
Serra do Sapo – Mineral Resources: In-situ tonnes and grade are on a dry basis. In 2012 in-situ tonnes were reported with a moisture content 4.2 wt% for the 
friable material and 0.1 wt% for the compact material. The decrease in Friable and Compact Itabirite Mineral Resources is primarily due to updated reasonable 
prospects for eventual economic extraction assumptions for the resource shell, the application of updated geotechnical parameters and a change in reporting 
basis from wet to dry tonnage also contributing to the decrease. Additional infill drilling partially offset the decrease.
(5) 
Serro: In-situ tonnes and grade are on a dry basis. In 2012 the in-situ tonnes were reported with an average moisture content of 4.7 wt%.  
Friable Itabirite and Hematite includes Friable Itabirite, Semi-Compact Itabirite and Hard Hematite (15.4 Mt at 64.6 %Fe). The cut-off grade is 25.0 %Fe.  
The increase in Mineral Resources is due to an update of the block model as a result of additional drilling which is partially offset by a change in reporting basis 
from wet to dry tonnage. ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013 223
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
MANGANESE  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
SAMANCOR MANGANESE
The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results,  
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (The JORC Code, 2012) and The South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources  
and Mineral Reserves (The SAMREC Code, 2007 Edition as amended July 2009) as applicable. The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves  
and Mineral Resources (source: BHP Billiton), the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately. Rounding of figures may cause 
computational discrepancies. 
Samancor Manganese – Operations
Mine
Tonnes Grade Yield
ORE RESERVES Attributable % Life Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
GEMCO (OP)
(1)
40.0 12 Mt Mt %Mn %Mn % %
Proved 68.9 72.5 44.4 45.0 59.1 55.1
Probable 27.6 24.9 44.7 45.0 58.7 55.1
Total 96.5 97.4 44.5 45.0 59.0 55.1
Hotazel Manganese Mines 29.6 %Mn %Mn
Mamatwan (OP)
(2)
20 Proved 38.3 41.4 37.1 37.2
Probable 30.5 31.4 36.9 37.1
Total 68.8 72.8 37.0 37.1
Wessels (UG)
(3)
46 Proved 4.2 3.9 44.5 44.8
Probable 63.9 64.9 42.3 42.9
Total 68.1 68.8 42.4 43.0
Samancor Manganese – Operations
Tonnes Grade Yield
MINERAL RESOURCES Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
GEMCO (OP)
(4)
40.0 Mt Mt %Mn %Mn % %
Measured 79.8 78.9 46.3 46.9 48.2 47.5
Indicated 55.4 28.2 44.5 46.0 46.8 47.4
Measured and Indicated 135.2 107.1 45.6 46.7 47.6 47.5
Inferred 35.4 49.4 43.2 43.9 48.6 47.8
Hotazel Manganese Mines 29.6 %Mn %Mn
Mamatwan (OP)
(5)
Measured 58.6 62.0 35.5 35.5
Indicated 54.5 54.7 34.5 34.5
Measured and Indicated 113.1 116.7 35.0 35.0
Inferred 4.3 4.3 34.5 34.5
Wessels (UG)
(6)
Measured 16.4 11.4 44.2 45.7
Indicated 125.1 126.4 42.1 43.6
Measured and Indicated 141.5 137.8 42.4 43.8
Inferred – – – –
MINERAL RESOURCES INCLUDE ORE RESERVES. 
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit, UG = Underground. Mine Life = The extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only. 
Mamatwan tonnages stated as wet metric tonnes. Wessels and GEMCO tonnages stated as dry metric tonnes. 
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or 
Measured Resource after continued exploration. 
 
During 2013 Samancor withdrew from the Franceville project in Gabon following the completion of the feasibility study and is therefore not reported.
Divestment of Beniomi and Bordeaux was completed in April 2013.
(1) 
GEMCO – Ore Reserves: Manganese grades are given as per washed ore samples and should be read together with their respective yields. Production 
depletion is partially offset by increased density values based on reconciliations supported by grade control diamond drilling results.
(2) 
Mamatwan – Ore Reserves: The change is due to depletion from mining and re-running of the model using the FY13 LOA optimised Mine Plan.
(3) 
Wessels – Ore Reserves: The change is due to depletion from mining which is offset by the use of the new 2012 geological block model being used for the  
2013 declaration.
(4) 
GEMCO – Mineral Resources: The adjustment of density values on the basis of grade control diamond drilling and additional drillhole information incorporated 
into the resource model in both the mining and exploration areas resulted in increased tonnages and resource confidence. The areas of key change are the 
exploration leases which are now predominantly Indicated Resource (previously Inferred).  
The Premium Sands (PC-02) Project Mineral Resource estimates above a zero cut-off grade (Indicated: 12.8 Mt at 20.8 %Mn, Inferred: 2.3 Mt at 20.0 %Mn) are 
excluded from the table.
(5) 
Mamatwan – Mineral Resources: A cut-off grade of 35.0 %Mn is used to declare Mineral Resources within the M, C and N Zones as well as within the X Zone. 
The Top Cut Resources are declared above a cut-off of 28.0 %Mn. The change, after depletion from mining, is due to re-running the 2010 geological model using 
Micromine software.
(6) 
Wessels – Mineral Resources: A cut-off grade of 45.0 %Mn is used to declare Mineral Resources within the Lower Body-HG ore type and 37.5 %Mn in the 
Lower Body-LG and Upper Body ore types. The increase, after depletion from mining, is mainly due to the new 2012 geological block model being used for the 
2013 declaration. ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
224 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013
 
METALLURGICAL COAL  
The Coal Reserve and Coal Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results,  
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (The JORC Code, 2012) as a minimum standard. The figures reported represent 100% of the Coal Reserves and  
Coal Resources, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately. Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.  
Anglo American Metallurgical Coal comprises export metallurgical and thermal coal operations located in Australia and Canada. 
Metallurgical Coal – Australia Operations 
Mine
ROM Tonnes
(2)
Yield
(3)
Saleable Tonnes
(2)
Saleable Quality
COAL RESERVES
(1)
Attributable % Life Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Callide (OC) 100 23 Mt Mt ROM % ROM % Mt Mt kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Domestic Proved 185.5 192.2 97.9 97.9 181.6 188.2 4,380 4,380
Probable 52.0 52.0 98.0 98.0 51.0 51.0 4,250 4,250
Total 237.5 244.2 97.9 97.9 232.6 239.2 4,350 4,350
Capcoal (OC) 77.5 23 CSN CSN
Metallurgical – Coking Proved 73.4 69.9 27.5 19.8 21.0 14.4 6.0 7.0
Probable 69.5 72.5 27.4 16.4 19.8 12.3 5.5 6.5
Total 142.9 142.4 27.5 18.0 40.8 26.7 6.0 7.0
kcal/kg kcal/kg
Metallurgical – Other Proved 36.2 46.3 27.6 33.6 6,850 6,970
Probable 36.0 46.5 26.0 35.0 6,850 6,990
Total 36.1 46.4 53.6 68.7 6,850 6,980
kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Export Proved 5.0 2.7 3.8 2.0 6,160 7,070
Probable 4.5 2.3 3.2 1.7 6,290 7,030
Total 4.8 2.5 7.1 3.7 6,220 7,050
Capcoal (UG) 70.0 11 CSN CSN
Metallurgical – Coking Proved 43.4 36.0 72.5 75.1 32.9 28.5 9.0 9.0
Probable 6.8 14.7 75.0 72.0 5.3 11.2 8.5 9.0
Total 50.2 50.7 72.8 74.2 38.2 39.7 9.0 9.0
Dawson (OC) 51.0 26 CSN CSN
Metallurgical – Coking Proved 171.9 180.7 24.0 24.0 42.4 44.7 7.0 7.5
Probable 225.9 227.2 20.9 21.0 48.5 49.1 7.0 7.5
Total 397.8 407.9 22.2 22.4 90.9 93.8 7.0 7.5
kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Export Proved 51.7 51.6 91.3 95.8 5,170 5,440
Probable 53.7 53.6 124.8 125.3 5,100 5,340
Total 52.8 52.7 216.1 221.1 5,130 5,380
Drayton (OC) 88.2 2 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Export Proved 4.6 7.9 74.3 76.0 3.4 6.0 6,600 6,650
Probable 2.2 4.2 73.8 76.0 1.7 3.2 6,540 6,600
Total 6.8 12.0 74.1 76.0 5.1 9.2 6,580 6,630
Foxleigh (OC) 70.0 6 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Metallurgical – Other Proved 0.7 1.9 79.9 83.0 0.6 1.7 7,190 6,870
Probable 23.4 12.6 70.6 77.7 17.4 10.4 7,050 6,800
Total 24.1 14.5 70.9 78.4 18.0 12.1 7,050 6,810
Moranbah North (UG) 88.0 19 CSN CSN
Metallurgical – Coking Proved 114.8 109.5 73.5 76.6 89.1 88.5 8.0 8.0
Probable 20.4 11.3 67.3 72.7 14.5 8.7 8.0 8.0
Total 135.2 120.8 72.6 76.2 103.6 97.2 8.0 8.0
Australia Metallurgical – Coking 71.6 Mt Mt Plant % Plant % Mt Mt CSN CSN
Proved 594.3 598.0 56.8 58.4 185.4 176.0 7.5 8.0
Probable 400.3 394.4 33.3 32.9 88.2 81.3 7.0 7.5
Total 994.6 992.5 49.2 50.3 273.5 257.3 7.5 8.0
Australia Metallurgical – Other 75.6 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Proved 37.1 48.1 28.2 35.3 6,860 6,970
Probable 49.9 53.7 43.4 45.5 6,930 6,940
Total 44.9 51.2 71.6 80.8 6,900 6,950
Australia Thermal – Export 52.7 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Proved 50.7 52.0 98.6 103.8 5,260 5,540
Probable 52.7 53.5 129.7 130.2 5,150 5,390
Total 51.8 52.9 228.3 233.9 5,200 5,460
Australia Thermal – Domestic 100 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Proved 97.9 97.9 181.6 188.2 4,380 4,380
Probable 98.0 98.0 51.0 51.0 4,250 4,250
Total 97.9 97.9 232.6 239.2 4,350 4,350
Metallurgical Coal – Canada Operations 
Mine
ROM Tonnes
(2)
Yield
(3)
Saleable Tonnes
(2)
Saleable Quality
COAL RESERVES
(1)
Attributable % Life Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Trend (OC) 100 7 Mt Mt ROM % ROM % Mt Mt CSN CSN
Metallurgical – Coking Proved 10.5 17.9 75.1 66.3 8.1 12.4 7.0 7.0
Probable 2.3 2.3 76.8 61.7 1.9 1.5 7.0 7.0
Total 12.8 20.2 75.4 65.8 10.0 14.0 7.0 7.0
kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Export Proved – 0.7 – 0.1 – 5,070
Probable – 0.8 – 0.0 – 5,070
Total – 0.7 – 0.2 – 5,070
Mining method: OC = Open Cast/Cut, UG = Underground. Mine Life = The extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only. 
For the multi-product operations, the ROM tonnes apply to each product. 
The Saleable tonnes cannot be calculated directly from the ROM reserve tonnes using the air dried yields as presented since the difference in moisture content is not taken into account. 
Attributable percentages for country totals are weighted by Saleable tonnes and should not be directly applied to the ROM tonnes. 
Footnotes appear at the end of the section.
Metallurgical – Coking refers to a high-, medium- or low-volatile semi-soft, soft or hard coking coal primarily for blending and use in the steel industry; quality measured as Crucible Swell Number (CSN).
Metallurgical – Other refers to semi-soft, soft, hard, semi-hard or anthracite coal, other than Coking Coal, such as pulverized coal injection (PCI) or other general metallurgical coal for the export or 
domestic market with a wider range of properties than Coking Coal; quality measured by calorific value (CV). 
Thermal – Export refers to low- to high-volatile thermal coal primarily for export in the use of power generation; quality measured by calorific value (CV). 
Thermal – Domestic refers to low- to high-volatile thermal coal primarily for domestic consumption for power generation; quality measured by calorific value (CV).
(4)
(4)
COAL  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013 225
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
COAL  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
Metallurgical Coal – Operations 
ROM Tonnes
(2)
Yield
(3)
Saleable Tonnes
(2)
Saleable Quality
TOTAL COAL RESERVES
(1)
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Metallurgical – Coking 72.6 Mt Mt Plant % Plant % Mt Mt CSN CSN
Proved 604.8 615.9 57.6 58.9 193.5 188.5 7.5 8.0
Probable 402.6 396.8 34.2 33.4 90.0 82.8 7.0 7.5
Total 1,007.4 1,012.7 50.1 51.1 283.5 271.3 7.5 8.0
Metallurgical – Other 75.6 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Proved 37.1 48.1 28.2 35.3 6,860 6,970
Probable 49.9 53.7 43.4 45.5 6,930 6,940
Total 44.9 51.2 71.6 80.8 6,900 6,950
Thermal – Export 52.7 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Proved 50.7 52.0 98.6 103.9 5,260 5,540
Probable 52.7 53.5 129.7 130.2 5,150 5,390
Total 51.8 52.8 228.3 234.1 5,200 5,460
Thermal – Domestic 100 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Proved 97.9 97.9 181.6 188.2 4,380 4,380
Probable 98.0 98.0 51.0 51.0 4,250 4,250
Total 97.9 97.9 232.6 239.2 4,350 4,350
Metallurgical Coal – Australia Operations
Tonnes Coal Quality
COAL RESOURCES
(5)
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012
Callide (OC) 100 MTIS MTIS kcal/kg kcal/kg
Measured 260.7 260.7 4,940 4,940
Indicated 265.1 265.1 4,810 4,810
Measured and Indicated 525.7 525.7 4,870 4,870
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 15.3 15.3 4,240 4,240
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 64.0 64.0 4,540 4,540
Total Inferred 79.3 79.3 4,480 4,480
Capcoal (OC) 77.5 Measured 29.4 13.8 6,890 7,080
Indicated 42.6 27.9 6,900 7,080
Measured and Indicated 72.0 41.7 6,900 7,080
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 53.5 36.6 6,630 6,710
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 91.7 60.7 6,930 7,120
Total Inferred 145.2 97.4 6,820 6,970
Capcoal (UG) 70.0 Measured 51.5 76.3 6,820 6,730
Indicated 23.5 68.0 6,640 6,620
Measured and Indicated 75.0 144.3 6,760 6,680
Inferred (in LOM Plan) – 0.3 – 6,630
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 10.1 13.6 6,340 6,340
Total Inferred 10.1 13.9 6,340 6,350
Dawson (OC) 51.0 Measured 134.2 134.2 6,630 6,630
Indicated 177.0 177.0 6,680 6,680
Measured and Indicated 311.1 311.1 6,660 6,660
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 97.1 97.1 6,750 6,750
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 228.5 228.5 6,770 6,770
Total Inferred 325.5 325.5 6,760 6,760
Drayton (OC) 88.2 Measured 1.5 3.7 6,950 6,490
Indicated 2.4 8.0 6,970 6,580
Measured and Indicated 3.8 11.8 6,960 6,550
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 0.0 0.0 5,600 5,820
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 0.0 0.8 7,160 7,110
Total Inferred 0.0 0.8 6,050 7,090
Foxleigh (OC) 70.0 Measured 1.2 17.3 7,330 7,130
Indicated 5.6 16.1 7,200 7,090
Measured and Indicated 6.7 33.3 7,220 7,110
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 19.2 7.0 7,100 6,830
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 15.9 32.1 7,180 7,100
Total Inferred 35.1 39.1 7,140 7,050
Moranbah North (UG) 88.0 Measured 45.9 55.7 6,660 6,670
Indicated 16.9 21.3 6,630 6,570
Measured and Indicated 62.8 76.9 6,650 6,640
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 0.3 0.1 6,620 6,980
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 1.5 1.8 6,650 6,760
Total Inferred 1.8 1.9 6,650 6,770
Australia – Mine Leases 75.4 Measured 524.2 561.6 5,830 5,890
Indicated 532.9 583.3 5,770 5,850
Measured and Indicated 1,057.1 1,144.9 5,800 5,870
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 185.4 156.4 6,540 6,500
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 411.6 401.5 6,460 6,480
Total Inferred 597.0 557.9 6,490 6,490
Metallurgical Coal – Canada Operations
Tonnes Coal Quality
COAL RESOURCES
(5)
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012
Trend (OC) 100 MTIS MTIS kcal/kg kcal/kg
Measured 21.0 15.9 7,030 6,500
Indicated 6.7 5.3 6,910 6,500
Measured and Indicated 27.7 21.2 7,000 6,500
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 0.0 1.4 7,320 6,500
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 2.7 0.4 6,390 6,500
Total Inferred 2.7 1.7 6,390 6,500
COAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO COAL RESERVES. 
(4)
(5) (5) (6) (6)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8)
(5) (5) (6) (6)
(7)
(8) ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
226 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013
 
COAL  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
Metallurgical Coal – Operations
Tonnes Coal Quality
COAL RESOURCES
(5)
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012
TOTAL 75.8 MTIS MTIS kcal/kg kcal/kg
Measured 545.2 577.5 5,870 5,910
Indicated 539.6 588.6 5,780 5,850
Measured and Indicated 1,084.8 1,166.1 5,830 5,880
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 185.4 157.8 6,540 6,500
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 414.3 401.8 6,460 6,480
Total Inferred 599.7 559.6 6,490 6,490
COAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO COAL RESERVES. 
 
Metallurgical Coal – Australia Projects 
Mine
ROM Tonnes Yield Saleable Tonnes Saleable Quality
COAL RESERVES
(1)
Attributable % Life Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Capcoal (UG) – Aquila 70.0 13 Mt Mt ROM % ROM % Mt Mt CSN CSN
Metallurgical – Coking Proved 26.3 – 69.2 – 19.2 – 9.0 –
Probable 19.2 – 66.4 – 13.5 – 9.0 –
Total 45.5 – 68.0 – 32.7 – 9.0 –
Grosvenor 100 31 CSN CSN
Metallurgical – Coking Proved 115.0 76.1 65.5 66.2 79.6 53.2 8.5 8.5
Probable 78.7 62.6 61.9 65.2 51.4 43.1 8.0 8.0
Total 193.7 138.7 64.0 65.7 130.9 96.3 8.5 8.5
Australia – Projects 94.0 Mt Mt Plant % Plant % Mt Mt CSN CSN
Metallurgical – Coking Proved 141.3 76.1 66.2 66.2 98.8 53.2 8.5 8.5
Probable 97.9 62.6 62.8 65.2 64.9 43.1 8.0 8.0
Total 239.2 138.7 64.8 65.7 163.6 96.3 8.5 8.5
Metallurgical Coal – Canada Projects 
Mine
ROM Tonnes Yield Saleable Tonnes Saleable Quality
COAL RESERVES
(1)
Attributable % Life Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Roman Mountain 100 14 Mt Mt ROM % ROM % Mt Mt CSN CSN
Metallurgical – Coking Proved 32.6 – 71.2 – 24.3 – 7.0 –
Probable 2.9 – 73.3 – 2.3 – 7.0 –
Total 35.5 – 71.4 – 26.6 – 7.0 –
Metallurgical Coal – Australia Projects
Tonnes Coal Quality
COAL RESOURCES
(5)
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012
Capcoal (UG) – Aquila 70.0 MTIS MTIS kcal/kg kcal/kg
Measured 13.5 – 6,750 –
Indicated 19.3 – 6,390 –
Measured and Indicated 32.8 – 6,540 –
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 0.0 – 6,570 –
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 6.7 – 6,190 –
Total Inferred 6.8 – 6,190 –
Dartbrook 83.3 Measured 386.1 386.1 5,720 5,720
Indicated 24.8 24.8 5,460 5,460
Measured and Indicated 410.9 410.9 5,700 5,700
Inferred 1.3 1.3 5,080 5,080
Drayton South 88.2 Measured 492.1 492.1 6,240 6,240
Indicated 189.0 189.0 6,260 6,260
Measured and Indicated 681.1 681.1 6,250 6,250
Inferred 90.7 90.7 5,950 5,950
Grosvenor 100 Measured 110.8 145.1 6,510 6,420
Indicated 62.0 72.5 6,600 6,550
Measured and Indicated 172.9 217.6 6,540 6,460
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 10.4 9.5 6,330 6,330
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 18.9 21.2 6,740 6,770
Total Inferred 29.3 30.7 6,600 6,630
Moranbah South 50.0 Measured 487.1 349.6 6,300 6,180
Indicated 208.1 302.3 6,470 6,410
Measured and Indicated 695.2 651.8 6,350 6,290
Inferred 30.3 50.8 6,800 6,540
Teviot Brook 100 Measured 3.2 – 6,760 –
Indicated 138.4 – 6,610 –
Measured and Indicated 141.6 – 6,610 –
Inferred 34.1 – 6,540 –
Theodore 51.0 Measured – – – –
Indicated 258.5 258.5 6,260 6,260
Measured and Indicated 258.5 258.5 6,260 6,260
Inferred 106.0 106.0 6,160 6,160
Australia – Projects 73.5 Measured 1,492.8 1,372.9 6,150 6,100
Indicated 900.2 847.0 6,370 6,310
Measured and Indicated 2,393.0 2,219.9 6,230 6,180
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 10.4 9.5 6,330 6,330
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 288.1 269.9 6,240 6,200
Total Inferred 298.5 279.5 6,240 6,210
COAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO COAL RESERVES.  
 
Attributable percentages for country totals are weighted by Total MTIS. 
 
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Coal Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Coal Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured 
Resource after continued exploration. 
(5) (5) (6) (6)
(7)
(8)
(2) (3) (2) (4)
(2) (3) (2) (4)
(5) (5) (6) (6)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8) ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013 227
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
COAL  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
Metallurgical Coal – Canada Projects
Tonnes Coal Quality
COAL RESOURCES
(5)
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012
Belcourt Saxon 50.0 MTIS MTIS kcal/kg kcal/kg
Measured 166.7 166.7 6,500 6,500
Indicated 4.3 4.3 6,500 6,500
Measured and Indicated 171.0 171.0 6,500 6,500
Inferred 0.2 0.2 6,500 6,500
Roman Mountain 100 Measured 1.6 30.6 7,930 6,290
Indicated 2.7 6.4 7,960 6,300
Measured and Indicated 4.2 37.0 7,950 6,290
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 0.3 – 7,960 –
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 0.7 0.4 7,960 6,260
Total Inferred 1.0 0.4 7,960 6,260
Canada – Projects 51.5 Measured 168.3 197.3 6,510 6,470
Indicated 7.0 10.7 7,060 6,380
Measured and Indicated 175.2 208.0 6,540 6,460
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 0.3 – 7,960 –
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 0.9 0.6 7,640 6,340
Total Inferred 1.2 0.6 7,710 6,340
(1) 
Coal Reserves are quoted on a Run Of Mine (ROM) reserve tonnes basis, which represents the tonnes delivered to the plant. Saleable reserve tonnes represents the estimated product tonnes.  
Coal Reserves (ROM and Saleable) are on the applicable moisture basis.
(2) 
ROM tonnes quoted on an As Delivered moisture basis, and Saleable tonnes on a Product moisture basis.
(3) 
Yield – ROM % represents the ratio of Saleable reserve tonnes to ROM reserve tonnes and is quoted on a constant moisture basis or on an air dried to air dried basis whereas Plant % is based on the 
‘Feed to Plant’ tonnes. The product yields (ROM %) for Proved, Probable and Total are calculated by dividing the individual Saleable reserves by the total ROM reserves per classification.
(4) 
The coal quality for Coal Reserves is quoted as either kilo-calories per kilogram (kcal/kg) or Crucible Swell Number (CSN). Kilo-calories per kilogram represent Calorific Value (CV) on a Gross As 
Received (GAR) basis. Coal quality parameters for the Coal Reserves for Coking, Other Metallurgical and Export Thermal collieries meet the contractual specifications for coking coal, PCI, 
metallurgical coal, steam coal and domestic coal. Coal quality parameters for the Coal Reserves for Domestic Power and Domestic Synfuels collieries meet the specifications of the individual supply 
contracts. CV is rounded to the nearest 10 kcal/kg and CSN to the nearest 0.5 index.
(5) 
Coal Resources are quoted on a Mineable Tonnes In-Situ (MTIS) basis in million tonnes, which are in addition to those resources that have been modified to produce the reported Coal Reserves. Coal 
Resources are on an in-situ moisture basis.
(6) 
The coal quality for Coal Resources is quoted on an in-situ heat content as kilo-calories per kilogram (kcal/kg), representing Calorific Value (CV) on a Gross As Received (GAR) basis.  
CV is rounded to the nearest 10 kcal/kg.
(7) 
Inferred (in LOM Plan) refers to Inferred Coal Resources that are included in the life of mine extraction schedule of the respective collieries and are not reported as Coal Reserves. 
(8)  
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) refers to Inferred Coal Resources outside the Life of Mine Plan but within the mine lease area.  
Capcoal mine comprises open cast operations at Lake Lindsay and Oak Park and an underground longwall operation at Grasstree. 
Trend mine and the Belcourt Saxon and Roman Mountain projects are part of Peace River Coal.
Jellinbah is not reported as Anglo American’s shareholding is below the internal threshold for reporting.  
Aquila was put on care and maintenance in July 2013 pending introduction of a longwall mine plan. 
 
Estimates for the following operations were updated by depletion: Callide and Dawson.
Summary of material changes (±10%) in estimates – Operations
Capcoal (OC): Coal Resources increase due to reduced geological losses and updated economic assumptions.
Capcoal (UG): Coal Resources decrease due to transfer of Aquila Seam resources as a separate project which are offset by gains from exploration drilling and 
reduced geological losses.
Dawson: In 2012 the reported Mine Life considered reserves plus Inferred (in LOM Plan), however for 2013, correctly considers only the scheduled Coal Reserves.
Drayton: Coal Reserves decrease due to production and updated economic assumptions. Coal Resources decrease due to updated economic assumptions.
Foxleigh: Coal Reserves increase due to updated economic assumptions, exploration drilling and subsequent revision of geological models. 
Coal Resources decrease due to refinement of the geological model and updated economic assumptions partially offset by exploration drilling.
Moranbah North: Coal Reserves increase due to an increase in cut height and extension of the mine design to accommodate Teviot Brook. Coal Resources 
decrease due to conversion of Coal Resources to Coal Reserves.
Trend: Export – Thermal Coal Reserves are no longer reported, due to current economic conditions. Coal Resources increase is due to reallocation of the Gething 
Formation from Coal Reserves to Coal Resources .
Summary of material changes (±10%) in estimates – Projects
Capcoal (UG) – Aquila Seam: Coal Reserves are reported for the first time as a discrete entity. Coal Resources show a net decrease is due to exploration drilling, 
reduced geological losses and conversion of Coal Resources to Coal Reserves.
Grosvenor: Coal Reserves increase due to additional longwall panels in the mine design. Coal Resources increase is due to exploration drilling. 
Roman Mountain: Coal Reserves are reported for the first time following conversion from Coal Resources to Coal Reserves, and represent the life extension for the 
Trend operation. Coal Resources decrease due to conversion of Coal Resources to Coal Reserves and the upgrading of Inferred Resources to Measured Resources 
as a result of exploration drilling.
 
Assumption with respect to Mineral Tenure
Callide: Mining Leases ML80121 and ML80186, and Mining Development Leases MDL 203 and 241 are currently pending grant and Anglo American has 
reasonable expectation that such rights will not be withheld.
Dawson: Exploration Permits for Coal EPC989 and EPC1068 will expire in 2014, and Anglo American Metallurgical Coal will apply for renewal    
timeously, and has reasonable expectation that such rights will not be withheld.
Drayton: Authority A173 has been recommended for renewal. Anglo American has reasonable expectation that this renewal will be shortly granted by the NSW 
Minister for Resources and Energy. 
Drayton South: The New South Wales Planning Assessment Commission’s (PAC) report into the Drayton South project recommended significant
changes to the mine plan, and Anglo American will now work through the PAC’s recommendations to better understand their implications    
and consider the options moving forward.
Foxleigh: Grant of Mining Leases ML70310, ML70429, ML70430 and ML70431 are currently pending and Anglo American has reasonable expectation that such 
rights will not be withheld.
Teviot Brook: Future additional reserves identified for extraction by Moranbah North starting approximately 2020 are contained in the adjacent Teviot Brook  
(EPC 706), which is actively under exploration, contains sufficient identified resources for the purposes of the current Moranbah North mine plan and will be 
reported once a Mining Lease Application has been submitted. 
 
Audits related to the generation of the Coal Reserve and/or Coal Resource estimates were carried out by independent consultants during 2013 at the following operations and projects: 
Callide (Trap Gully), Capcoal OC, Capcoal UG (Grasstree & Aquila), Dawson (Pits 3-8,13-19, 20-24), Foxleigh, Roman Mountain and Trend.  
(5) (5) (6) (6)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8) ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
228 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013
 
COAL  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
THERMAL COAL 
The Coal Reserve and Coal Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with The South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources 
and Mineral Reserves, (The SAMREC Code, 2007 Edition as amended July 2009) and the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources 
and Ore Reserves (The JORC Code, 2012) as applicable. The figures reported represent 100% of the Coal Reserves and Coal Resources, the percentage attributable 
to Anglo American plc is stated separately. Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies. Anglo American Thermal Coal comprises the dominantly 
export and domestic thermal coal operations, located in Colombia and South Africa.
Thermal Coal – Colombia Operations 
Mine
ROM Tonnes Yield Saleable Tonnes Saleable Quality
COAL RESERVES
(1)
Attributable % Life Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Cerrejón (OC) 33.3 18 Mt Mt ROM % ROM % Mt Mt kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Export Proved 645.1 675.0 96.0 96.7 626.6 652.7 6,150 6,180
Probable 96.2 93.2 95.7 97.0 93.9 90.4 6,130 6,110
Total 741.3 768.2 96.0 96.7 720.4 743.1 6,150 6,170
Thermal Coal – South Africa Operations 
Mine
ROM Tonnes Yield Saleable Tonnes Saleable Quality
COAL RESERVES
(1)
Attributable % Life Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Goedehoop (UG&OC) 100 7 Mt Mt ROM % ROM % Mt Mt kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Export Proved 29.5 30.0 52.5 54.9 15.8 16.8 6,200 6,190
Probable 29.9 40.9 58.5 51.6 17.8 21.5 5,930 6,200
Total 59.4 70.9 55.5 53.0 33.6 38.3 6,060 6,200
Greenside (UG) 100 14 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Export Proved 23.0 21.3 68.4 57.4 16.2 12.7 6,080 6,200
Probable 36.8 26.4 68.6 54.0 26.2 14.8 5,840 6,190
Total 59.8 47.7 68.5 55.5 42.5 27.5 5,930 6,190
Isibonelo (OC) 100 14 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Synfuel Proved 65.2 70.5 100 100 65.2 70.5 4,690 4,520
Probable – – – – – – – –
Total 65.2 70.5 100 100 65.2 70.5 4,690 4,520
Kleinkopje (OC) 100 12 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Export Proved 38.9 50.8 38.2 33.2 15.4 17.4 6,190 6,190
Probable – – – – – – – –
Total 38.9 50.8 38.2 33.2 15.4 17.4 6,190 6,190
kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Domestic Proved 30.7 38.5 11.9 19.6 4,580 4,580
Probable – – – – – –
Total 30.7 38.5 11.9 19.6 4,580 4,580
Kriel (UG&OC) 73.0 12 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Domestic Proved 36.1 40.3 100 100 36.1 40.3 4,860 4,830
Probable 10.0 63.8 100 100 10.0 63.8 4,280 4,430
Total 46.1 104.1 100 100 46.1 104.1 4,730 4,580
Landau (OC) 100 6 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Export Proved 22.0 29.6 47.8 48.4 10.7 14.5 6,230 6,210
Probable 12.2 12.1 46.6 46.0 5.8 5.7 6,250 6,210
Total 34.2 41.7 47.4 47.7 16.5 20.2 6,240 6,210
kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Domestic Proved 15.6 12.3 3.5 3.7 4,390 4,040
Probable 21.1 18.5 2.6 2.3 4,530 4,370
Total 17.6 14.1 6.1 5.9 4,450 4,170
Mafube (OC) 50.0 18 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Export Proved 10.2 12.1 51.2 47.5 5.3 5.8 6,260 6,270
Probable 113.0 70.7 42.8 33.9 48.4 24.2 6,040 6,260
Total 123.2 82.8 43.5 35.9 53.7 30.0 6,060 6,260
kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Domestic Proved 24.5 19.7 2.6 2.4 5,240 5,360
Probable 18.4 29.1 21.1 21.2 5,050 4,970
Total 18.9 27.7 23.7 23.6 5,070 5,010
New Denmark (UG) 100 25 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Domestic Proved 25.8 30.8 100 100 25.8 30.8 5,040 4,950
Probable 82.7 81.2 100 100 82.7 81.2 5,150 5,020
Total 108.6 112.0 100 100 108.6 112.0 5,120 5,000
New Vaal (OC) 100 17 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Domestic Proved 296.3 348.1 93.4 89.6 286.6 323.8 3,510 3,560
Probable – – – – – – – –
Total 296.3 348.1 93.4 89.6 286.6 323.8 3,510 3,560
Zibulo (UG&OC) 73.0 19 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Export Proved 84.1 91.3 58.0 49.4 49.0 45.6 6,110 6,100
Probable 34.2 23.5 46.8 43.9 16.1 10.4 6,110 6,110
Total 118.2 114.9 54.8 48.3 65.1 56.0 6,110 6,100
kcal/kg kcal/kg
Thermal – Domestic Proved 14.6 26.6 12.2 25.1 4,840 4,930
Probable 20.7 30.4 7.1 7.3 4,830 4,780
Total 16.4 27.4 19.3 32.4 4,840 4,900
Mining method: OC = Open Cast/Cut, UG = Underground. Mine Life = The extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only. 
For the multi-product operations, the ROM tonnage figures apply to each product. 
The Saleable tonnes cannot be calculated directly from the ROM reserve tonnes using the air dried yields as presented since the difference in moisture content is not taken into account. 
Attributable percentages for country totals are weighted by Saleable tonnes and should not be directly applied to the ROM tonnes. 
Footnotes appear at the end of the section.
Thermal – Export refers to low- to high-volatile thermal coal primarily for export in the use of power generation; quality measured by calorific value (CV). 
Thermal – Domestic refers to low- to high-volatile thermal coal primarily for domestic consumption for power generation; quality measured by calorific value (CV). 
Synfuel refers to a coal specifically for the domestic production of synthetic fuel and chemicals; quality measured by calorific value (CV).
(2) (3) (2) (4)
(2) (3) (2) (4) ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013 229
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
COAL  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
Thermal Coal – South Africa Operations 
COAL RESERVES
(1) 
Attributable % Classification
ROM Tonnes Yield Saleable Tonnes Saleable Quality
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
South Africa Thermal – Export 80.4 Mt Mt Plant % Plant % Mt Mt kcal/kg kcal/kg
Proved 631.1 724.9 57.8 52.9 112.5 112.8 6,150 6,160
Probable 318.8 318.7 53.3 45.6 114.3 76.5 6,000 6,210
Total 949.9 1,043.6 55.5 49.9 226.8 189.3 6,070 6,180
South Africa Thermal – Domestic 94.1 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Proved 91.3 87.7 378.7 445.7 3,840 3,910
Probable 81.5 88.2 123.6 175.7 5,030 4,780
Total 88.9 87.8 502.3 621.4 4,130 4,150
South Africa Synfuel 100 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Proved 100 100 65.2 70.5 4,690 4,520
Probable – – – – – –
Total 100 100 65.2 70.5 4,690 4,520
Thermal Coal – Operations
ROM Tonnes Yield Saleable Tonnes Saleable Quality
TOTAL COAL RESERVES
(1) 
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Thermal – Export 44.6 Mt Mt Plant % Plant % Mt Mt kcal/kg kcal/kg
Proved 1,276.2 1,399.9 90.2 90.2 739.0 765.5 6,150 6,180
Probable 415.0 411.9 72.4 73.4 208.2 166.9 6,060 6,160
Total 1,691.2 1,811.8 86.3 87.2 947.2 932.4 6,130 6,170
Thermal – Domestic 94.1 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Proved 91.3 87.7 378.7 445.7 3,840 3,910
Probable 81.5 88.2 123.6 175.7 5,030 4,780
Total 88.9 87.8 502.3 621.4 4,130 4,150
Synfuel 100 kcal/kg kcal/kg
Proved 100 100 65.2 70.5 4,690 4,520
Probable – – – – – –
Total 100 100 65.2 70.5 4,690 4,520
Thermal Coal – Colombia Operations
Tonnes Coal Quality
COAL RESOURCES
(5)
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012
Cerrejón (OC) 33.3 MTIS MTIS kcal/kg kcal/kg
Measured 911.3 903.6 6,410 6,450
Indicated 162.9 160.0 6,340 6,360
Measured and Indicated 1,074.2 1,063.6 6,400 6,440
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 68.0 73.8 6,770 6,720
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 29.5 25.1 6,580 6,460
Total Inferred 97.5 98.8 6,710 6,650
 
(2) (3) (2) (4)
(2) (3) (2) (4)
(5) (5) (6) (6)
(7)
(8) ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
230 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013
 
COAL  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
Thermal Coal – South Africa Operations
Tonnes Coal Quality
COAL RESOURCES
(5)
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012
Goedehoop (UG&OC) 100 MTIS MTIS kcal/kg kcal/kg
Measured 205.6 83.1 5,260 5,510
Indicated 29.0 75.7 4,910 5,470
Measured and Indicated 234.6 158.8 5,210 5,490
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 1.6 1.6 5,300 5,740
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 11.2 5.8 4,810 5,250
Total Inferred 12.8 7.4 4,870 5,360
Greenside (UG) 100 Measured 18.4 18.2 5,680 5,590
Indicated 1.7 1.4 5,140 5,610
Measured and Indicated 20.1 19.6 5,630 5,590
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 1.9 8.3 5,730 5,790
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 0.8 – 6,050 –
Total Inferred 2.8 8.3 5,830 5,790
Isibonelo (OC) 100 Measured – – – –
Indicated 16.3 16.3 5,390 5,250
Measured and Indicated 16.3 16.3 5,390 5,250
Inferred (in LOM Plan) – – – –
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) – – – –
Total Inferred – – – –
Kleinkopje (OC) 100 Measured 28.0 30.4 5,020 5,040
Indicated – – – –
Measured and Indicated 28.0 30.4 5,020 5,040
Inferred (in LOM Plan) – – – –
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) – – – –
Total Inferred – – – –
Kriel (UG&OC) 73.0 Measured 73.4 8.7 4,870 5,290
Indicated 10.2 10.2 4,860 4,860
Measured and Indicated 83.5 18.8 4,870 5,060
Inferred (in LOM Plan) – – – –
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 18.8 18.8 4,950 4,950
Total Inferred 18.8 18.8 4,950 4,950
Landau (OC) 100 Measured 50.1 52.0 5,230 5,190
Indicated 34.4 42.8 5,250 4,680
Measured and Indicated 84.5 94.8 5,240 4,960
Inferred (in LOM Plan) – – – –
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 18.1 13.8 5,500 5,760
Total Inferred 18.1 13.8 5,500 5,760
Mafube (OC) 50.0 Measured 53.9 56.5 5,300 5,300
Indicated 4.3 13.2 4,370 4,530
Measured and Indicated 58.2 69.7 5,230 5,150
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 0.9 7.3 4,040 5,150
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 1.2 30.2 5,360 3.890
Total Inferred 2.1 37.5 4,770 4,130
New Denmark (UG) 100 Measured 65.8 – 5,800 –
Indicated 2.9 – 5,850 –
Measured and Indicated 68.7 – 5,800 –
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 14.4 16.2 5,270 5,270
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 1.2 – 5,390 –
Total Inferred 15.6 16.2 5,280 5,270
Zibulo (UG&OC) 73.0 Measured 173.9 147.3 4,900 4,960
Indicated 201.0 201.7 4,870 4,900
Measured and Indicated 375.0 349.0 4,890 4,920
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 20.8 20.4 5,320 5,460
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 132.8 157.8 4,820 4,780
Total Inferred 153.6 178.2 4,890 4,860
South Africa – Mine Leases 83.2 Measured 669.1 396.2 5,180 5,200
Indicated 299.8 361.2 4,950 5,000
Measured and Indicated 968.9 757.4 5,110 5,100
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 39.7 53.9 5,290 5,420
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 184.1 226.5 4,910 4,750
Total Inferred 223.8 280.3 4,980 4,880
(5) (5) (6) (6)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8)
(7)
(8)
Thermal Coal – Operations
COAL RESOURCES
(5)
Tonnes Coal Quality
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012
Total 58.5 MTIS MTIS kcal/kg kcal/kg
Measured 1,580.4 1,299.7 5,890 6,070
Indicated 462.6 521.2 5,440 5,410
Measured and Indicated 2,043.0 1,821.0 5,790 5,880
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 107.7 127.7 6,230 6,170
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 213.6 251.5 5,140 4,920
Total Inferred 321.3 379.2 5,510 5,340
COAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO COAL RESERVES. 
 
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Coal Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Coal Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured 
Resource after continued exploration.
(5) (5) (6) (6)
(7)
(8) ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013 231
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
COAL  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
Thermal Coal – South Africa Projects
Tonnes Coal Quality
COAL RESOURCES
(5)
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012
Elders 73.0 MTIS MTIS kcal/kg kcal/kg
Measured 176.4 224.3 4,970 5,140
Indicated 9.6 107.6 4,700 5,410
Measured and Indicated 186.0 331.8 4,950 5,230
Inferred 22.4 109.1 4,750 5,320
Elders UG Extension 73.0 Measured 66.2 – 5,520 –
Indicated 85.3 – 5,550 –
Measured and Indicated 151.5 – 5,540 –
Inferred 90.0 – 5,460 –
Kriel Block F 100 Measured 49.0 36.1 5,310 5,270
Indicated 13.8 27.3 5,360 5,410
Measured and Indicated 62.8 63.4 5,320 5,330
Inferred – – – –
Kriel East 73.0 Measured 114.6 100.1 4,950 4,940
Indicated 18.1 31.4 4,990 4,890
Measured and Indicated 132.7 131.5 4,960 4,930
Inferred 6.6 8.0 4,880 4,840
New Largo 73.0 Measured 412.1 429.5 4,410 4,290
Indicated 161.8 178.5 4,270 3,970
Measured and Indicated 573.9 608.0 4,370 4,190
Inferred 13.4 13.9 5,300 5,270
Nooitgedacht 100 Measured 34.5 36.4 5,330 5,360
Indicated 10.2 10.6 5,410 5,450
Measured and Indicated 44.7 46.9 5,350 5,380
Inferred 10.8 10.8 5,280 5,300
South Rand 73.0 Measured 78.6 78.6 4,850 4,850
Indicated 168.1 168.1 4,770 4,770
Measured and Indicated 246.7 246.7 4,790 4,790
Inferred 157.2 157.2 4,780 4,780
Vaal Basin 100 Measured 378.8 375.2 4,330 4,330
Indicated 223.6 220.4 4,220 4,210
Measured and Indicated 602.4 595.6 4,290 4,290
Inferred 92.0 88.9 4,250 4,210
South Africa – Projects 82.2 Measured 1,310.2 1,280.2 4,650 4,590
Indicated 690.6 743.8 4,600 4,540
Measured and Indicated 2,000.8 2,024.0 4,630 4,570
Inferred 392.4 388.0 4,840 4,830
 
Attributable percentages for country totals are weighted by Total MTIS. 
 
(1)
  Coal Reserves are quoted on a Run Of Mine (ROM) reserve tonnes basis, which represents the tonnes delivered to the plant. Saleable reserve tonnes represents the estimated product tonnes.  
Coal Reserves (ROM and Saleable) are on the applicable moisture basis.
(2) 
ROM tonnes quoted on an As Delivered moisture basis, and Saleable tonnes on a Product moisture basis.
(3)  
Yield – ROM % represents the ratio of Saleable reserve tonnes to ROM reserve tonnes and is quoted on a constant moisture basis or on an air dried to air dried basis whereas Plant % is based on  
the ‘Feed to Plant’ tonnes. The product yields (ROM %) for Proved, Probable and Total are calculated by dividing the individual Saleable reserves by the total ROM reserves per classification.
(4)  
The coal quality for Coal Reserves is quoted as either kilo-calories per kilogram (kcal/kg) or Crucible Swell Number (CSN). Kilo-calories per kilogram represent Calorific Value (CV) on a Gross As 
Received (GAR) basis. Coal quality parameters for the Coal Reserves for Coking, Other Metallurgical and Export Thermal collieries meet the contractual specifications for coking coal, PCI, 
metallurgical coal, steam coal and domestic coal. Coal quality parameters for the Coal Reserves for Domestic Power and Domestic Synfuels collieries meet the specifications of the individual supply 
contracts in the short-term and studies are underway to ensure long-term compliance. CV is rounded to the nearest 10 kcal/kg.
(5)  
Coal Resources are quoted on a Mineable Tonnes In-Situ (MTIS) basis in million tonnes, which are in addition to those resources that have been modified to produce the reported Coal Reserves.  
Coal Resources are on an in-situ moisture basis.
(6)  
The coal quality for Coal Resources is quoted on an in-situ heat content as kilo-calories per kilogram (kcal/kg), representing Calorific Value (CV) on a Gross As Received (GAR) basis.  
CV is rounded to the nearest 10 kcal/kg. 
(7) 
Inferred (in LOM Plan) refers to Inferred Coal Resources that are included in the life of mine extraction schedule of the respective collieries and are not reported as Coal Reserves. 
(8)  
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) refers to Inferred Coal Resources outside the Life of Mine Plan but within the mine lease area. 
Summary of material changes (±10%) in estimates – Operations
Goedehoop: In 2012 only the Seam 2 Select and Seam 4 Select sub-seams (in the Anglo Operations Limited portion of the Elders project area) were reported as 
resources. In 2013 all sub-seams are reported as Coal Resources due to the maturity of the Elders project study. 
Greenside: Coal Reserves and Mine Life increase due to the re-evaluation and conversion of the southern portion of the Clydesdale Pan from Inferred in LOM Plan 
to Probable Reserves, the conversion of the Greenside East block transferred from Kleinkopje and adjustments to the mining height to include roof coal when 
producing higher yielding products (5850 and 5500 kcal/kg).
Kriel: Coal Reserves decrease due to the reallocation of Block F, Block Z, Pit 1 1, Pit 13 and Mini-pit 3 to resources as a result of delays in the Pre-Feasibility studies.
Mafube: Coal Reserves and Mine Life increase due to the inclusion of Seam 4 into the LOM Plan following feasibility studies which also optimised the mine plan, 
increasing the mining footprint of Seam 1 and Seam 2. 
New Denmark: Coal Resources increase due to refinement of resource polygons around mine layouts to include resources previously not considered.
Summary of material changes (±10%) in estimates – Projects
Elders: In 2013 the previously reported Elders projects has been split into Elders and Elders Underground Extension due to the progress in the project studies.
Nooitgedacht: Coal Resources decrease due to the closure of the Seam 5 operation.
Assumption with respect to Mineral Tenure
Cerrejón: Coal Reserves are estimated for the area defined by the current approved Mining Right which expires in 2033. In order to exploit the Coal Resources,  
a renewal will be applied for at the appropriate time. There is a reasonable expectation that such renewal will not be withheld.
Mafube: Application for conversion to a Mining Right has been granted and executed in 2013.
New Largo: The New Largo Mining Right Application has been granted in August 2013; Anglo American awaits execution of the Mining Right.
Audits related to the generation of the Coal Reserve and/or Coal Resource estimates were carried out by independent consultants during 2013 at the following operations and projects:  
Isibonelo, Kleinkopje, Kriel, Kriel East, Landau and Zibulo.
(5) (5) (6) (6) ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
232 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013
 
COPPER  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
COPPER
The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral 
Resources and Ore Reserves (The JORC Code, 2012) as a minimum standard. The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral 
Resources, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately. Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
Copper – Operations 
ORE RESERVES
(1)
Mine
Tonnes Grade Contained Metal
Attributable % Life Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Collahuasi (OP) 44.0 70 Mt Mt %TCu %TCu kt kt
Oxide and Mixed
(2)
Proved – 31.0 – 0.58 – 181
Heap Leach Probable 7.0 13.0 0.57 0.71 40 93
Total 7.0 44.1 0.57 0.62 40 274
%TCu %TCu
Sulphide Proved 422.4 419.1 1.03 1.00 4,351 4,200
Flotation – direct feed Copper Probable 1,683.0 1,655.1 0.98 0.98 16,494 16,202
Total 2,105.4 2,074.2 0.99 0.98 20,845 20,402
%Mo %Mo
Proved 0.023 0.024 97 98
Molybdenum Probable 0.023 0.024 387 398
Total 0.023 0.024 484 496
%TCu %TCu
Low Grade Sulphide
(3)
Proved 28.2 – 0.53 – 150 –
Flotation – stockpile Copper Probable 1,137.8 1,069.2 0.48 0.49 5,427 5,219
Total 1,166.0 1,069.2 0.48 0.49 5,576 5,219
%Mo %Mo
Proved 0.013 – 4 –
Molybdenum Probable 0.010 0.010 109 105
Total 0.010 0.010 113 105
El Soldado (OP) 50.1 23  %TCu %TCu 
Sulphide Proved 48.1 125.7 0.94 0.81 452 1,018
Flotation
(4)
Probable 39.1 44.6 0.82 0.79 321 352
Total 87.2 170.3 0.89 0.80 773 1,371
Oxide Proved – – – – – –
Heap Leach Probable 2.3 3.0 0.33 0.45 8 14
Total 2.3 3.0 0.33 0.45 8 14
Los Bronces (OP) 50.1 36 %TCu %TCu
Sulphide Proved 721.4 729.9 0.69 0.70 4,977 5,109
Flotation Copper Probable 724.1 779.4 0.53 0.53 3,838 4,131
Total 1,445.4 1,509.3 0.61 0.61 8,815 9,240
%Mo %Mo
Proved 0.015 0.016 108 117
Molybdenum Probable 0.013 0.013 94 101
Total 0.014 0.014 202 218
%TCu %TCu
Sulphide Proved 439.1 428.6 0.32 0.32 1,405 1,371
Dump Leach Probable 158.5 179.0 0.29 0.29 460 519
Total 597.6 607.6 0.31 0.31 1,865 1,891
Mantos Blancos (OP) 100 8 %ICu %ICu
Sulphide Proved 19.2 14.1 0.86 0.82 165 115
Flotation
(5)
Probable 29.3 21.6 0.72 0.79 211 170
Total 48.5 35.6 0.78 0.80 376 286
%ASCu %ASCu
Oxide Proved 3.7 2.7 0.48 0.55 18 15
Vat and Heap Leach
(6)
Probable 12.0 12.7 0.44 0.38 53 47
Total 15.7 15.4 0.45 0.41 71 62
%ASCu %ASCu
Oxide Proved – – – – – –
Dump Leach Probable 36.2 36.8 0.23 0.23 83 84
Total 36.2 36.8 0.23 0.23 83 84
Mantoverde (OP) 100 5 %ASCu %ASCu
Oxide Proved 38.9 22.2 0.53 0.56 206 124
Heap Leach
(7)
Probable 9.3 20.2 0.52 0.52 48 105
Total 48.1 42.3 0.53 0.54 254 229
%ASCu %ASCu
Oxide Proved 20.1 18.4 0.22 0.23 44 42
Dump Leach
(8)
Probable 13.4 25.7 0.23 0.27 31 70
Total 33.4 44.2 0.22 0.25 75 112
Mining method: OP = Open Pit. Mine Life = The extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only. 
TCu = total copper, ICu = insoluble copper (total copper less acid soluble copper), ASCu = acid soluble copper. 
 
El Soldado and Los Bronces are part of Anglo American Sur.
Mantos Blancos and Mantoverde are part of Anglo American Norte. ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013 233
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
COPPER  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
(1) 
Copper Reserves: A minimum cut-off of 0.20% (TCu, ICu or ASCu) is applied to determine Ore Reserves on operations.
(2)  
Collahuasi – Oxide and Mixed: The decrease is due to reallocated of Ore Reserves to Mineral Resources due to changes in economic assumptions.
(3)  
Collahuasi – Low Grade Sulphide: The increase is primarily due to new information and changes in the economic assumptions.
(4)  
El Soldado – Sulphide (Flotation): In addition to production, the decrease in Ore Reserves is due to a change in economic assumptions (increase in operational 
costs) and a refinement of the grade calculation methodology in the block model. 
(5) 
Mantos Blancos – Sulphide (Flotation): The increase in Ore Reserves is primarily due to conversion of Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves within the updated 
mine plan which now includes Phase 20 (Argentina) and uses a modified cut-off grade strategy.
(6)  
Mantos Blancos – Oxide (Vat and Heap Leach): The increase in Ore Reserves is primarily due to the inclusion of Phase 21 in the mine plan and conversion of 
additional ore from Phases 13,14 and 17. 
(7) 
Mantoverde – Oxide (Heap Leach): The increase in Ore Reserves is due to the inclusion in the mine plan of Phase 4 of Mantoverde North and South pits, a new 
pit design at Franko North and the transfer of high-carbonate Dump Leach ore to the Heap Leach process.
(8) 
Mantoverde – Oxide (Dump Leach): The decrease in Ore Reserves is primarily due to production and the transfer of high-carbonate Dump Leach ore to the 
Heap Leach process which is offset by the inclusion in the mine plan of Phase 4 of Mantoverde North and South pits and a new pit design at Franko North.
Audits related to the generation of the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were carried out by independent consultants during 2013 at the following operations:  
Collahuasi, El Soldado, Los Bronces and Mantos Blancos. ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
234 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013
 
COPPER  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
Copper – Operations 
MINERAL RESOURCES
 (1)
Tonnes Grade Contained Metal
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Collahuasi (OP) 44.0 Mt Mt %TCu %TCu kt kt
Oxide and Mixed
(2)
Measured 25.6 – 0.64 – 164 –
Heap Leach Indicated 17.5 0.5 0.67 0.70 117 3
 Measured and Indicated 43.0 0.5 0.65 0.70 281 3
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 17.0 2.8 0.57 0.37 97 11
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 17.5 8.5 0.72 0.62 126 53
Total Inferred 34.5 11.3 0.65 0.56 223 63
%TCu %TCu
Sulphide
(2)
Measured 9.0 4.6 0.76 0.75 68 35
Flotation – direct feed Indicated 1,162.6 1,148.9 0.96 0.94 11,161 10,821
Copper Measured and Indicated 1,171.6 1,153.6 0.96 0.94 11,229 10,856
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 460.4 486.1 1.05 1.03 4,834 5,017
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 3,017.5 2,654.9 0.95 0.92 28,666 24,441
Total Inferred 3,477.8 3,141.0 0.96 0.94 33,500 29,458
%Mo %Mo
Measured 0.005 0.005 0 0
Indicated 0.052 0.047 605 368
Molybdenum Measured and Indicated 0.052 0.047 605 368
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 0.011 0.016 51 76
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 0.023 0.022 694 584
Total Inferred 0.021 0.021 745 660
%TCu %TCu
Low Grade Sulphide
(2)
Measured 11.2 6.2 0.47 0.48 53 30
Flotation – stockpile Indicated 295.1 265.9 0.46 0.46 1,358 1,233
Copper Measured and Indicated 306.4 272.1 0.46 0.46 1,410 1,263
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 399.2 361.6 0.45 0.45 1,796 1,616
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 1,065.0 945.4 0.46 0.47 4,899 4,419
Total Inferred 1,464.2 1,307.0 0.46 0.46 6,695 6,036
%Mo %Mo
Measured 0.014 0.012 2 1
Indicated 0.023 0.021 68 25
Molybdenum Measured and Indicated 0.023 0.021 69 26
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 0.003 0.004 12 14
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 0.005 0.005 53 44
Total Inferred 0.004 0.005 65 58
El Soldado (OP) 50.1 %TCu %TCu
Sulphide Measured 71.7 24.7 0.72 0.78 516 193
Flotation
(3)
Indicated 26.0 7.7 0.66 0.72 173 55
Measured and Indicated 97.8 32.4 0.70 0.77 689 248
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 7.4 7.7 0.68 0.58 50 45
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 20.5 6.4 0.54 0.53 111 34
Total Inferred 27.9 14.1 0.58 0.56 161 79
Los Bronces (OP) 50.1 %TCu %TCu
Sulphide Measured 156.4 84.8 0.41 0.45 641 382
Flotation
(4)
Indicated 1,054.7 897.6 0.40 0.40 4,219 3,590
Copper Measured and Indicated 1,211.1 982.4 0.40 0.40 4,860 3,972
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 187.0 212.0 0.48 0.48 898 1,018
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 3,389.9 3,311.1 0.36 0.36 12,204 11,920
Total Inferred 3,576.9 3,523.1 0.37 0.37 13,101 12,938
%Mo %Mo
Measured 0.005 0.005 8 4
Indicated 0.008 0.009 84 81
Molybdenum Measured and Indicated 0.008 0.009 92 85
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 0.011 0.013 21 28
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 0.010 0.008 339 265
Total Inferred 0.010 0.008 360 293
%TCu %TCu
Sulphide Measured – – – – – –
Dump Leach Indicated – – – – – –
 Measured and Indicated – – – – – –
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 175.0 173.2 0.28 0.28 490 485
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) – – – – – –
Total Inferred 175.0 173.2 0.28 0.28 490 485
 
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or 
Measured Resource after continued exploration ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013 235
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
COPPER  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
Copper – Operations continued
Tonnes Grade Contained Metal
MINERAL RESOURCES
 (1)
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Mantos Blancos (OP) 100 Mt Mt %ICu %ICu kt kt
Sulphide Measured 28.0 30.2 0.75 0.95 210 286
Flotation
(5)
Indicated 58.8 64.8 0.61 0.69 359 447
Measured and Indicated 86.8 95.0 0.66 0.77 569 734
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 4.3 9.4 0.52 0.46 22 43
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 29.2 23.8 0.54 0.66 158 157
Total Inferred 33.5 33.2 0.54 0.60 180 201
%ASCu %ASCu
Oxide Measured 4.6 3.5 0.46 0.50 21 17
Vat and Heap Leach
(6)
Indicated 13.6 11.1 0.40 0.45 55 50
Measured and Indicated 18.2 14.6 0.42 0.46 76 67
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 18.2 17.6 0.25 0.26 45 46
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 12.5 7.4 0.40 0.46 50 34
Total Inferred 30.7 25.0 0.31 0.32 95 80
%ASCu %ASCu
Oxide Measured 1.3 0.4 0.18 0.18 2 1
Dump Leach
(7)
Indicated 10.9 8.4 0.17 0.17 19 14
Measured and Indicated 12.2 8.8 0.17 0.17 21 15
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 123.1 91.4 0.21 0.23 259 210
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 16.2 4.3 0.16 0.17 26 7
Total Inferred 139.3 95.7 0.20 0.23 284 218
Mantoverde (OP) 100 %ASCu %ASCu
Oxide Measured 27.0 5.1 0.39 0.42 105 22
Heap Leach
(8)
Indicated 13.5 6.7 0.40 0.53 54 35
Measured and Indicated 40.5 11.8 0.39 0.48 159 57
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 0.8 3.3 0.53 0.69 4 23
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 1.8 0.1 0.33 0.30 6 0
Total Inferred 2.6 3.4 0.39 0.68 10 23
%ASCu %ASCu
Oxide Measured – – – – – –
Dump Leach Indicated – – – – – –
Measured and Indicated – – – – – –
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 0.9 0.6 0.22 0.24 2 1
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) – – – – – –
Total Inferred 0.9 0.6 0.22 0.24 2 1
MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES. 
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit 
TCu = total copper, ICu = insoluble copper (total copper less acid soluble copper), ASCu = acid soluble copper. 
 
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or 
Measured Resource after continued exploration. 
 
El Soldado and Los Bronces are part of Anglo American Sur.
Mantos Blancos and Mantoverde are part of Anglo American Norte. 
(1) 
Copper Resources: A test of reasonable eventual economic extraction is applied through consideration of an optimised pit shell. Materials outside the optimised 
shell that have potential of eventual economic extraction via underground means are not included in the Mineral Resource statement. Mineral Resources are 
quoted above a 0.2% TCu cut-off.
(2)  
Collahuasi – Oxide and Mixed, Sulphide and Low Grade Sulphide: The increase in Mineral Resources is primarily due to new drilling information which 
identified and delineated new resources.
(3)  
El Soldado – Sulphide (Flotation): The increase in Mineral Resources is primarily due to reallocation from Ore Reserves as a result of a change in economic 
assumptions (increase in operational costs) as well as a refinement of the grade calculation methodology in the block model.
(4) 
Los Bronces – Sulphide (Flotation): The increase in Mineral Resources is primarily due to a change in economic assumptions (increase in long-term metal 
price). 
(5)  
Mantos Blancos – Sulphide (Flotation): The decrease in Mineral Resources is due to a conversion to Ore Reserves in Phase 20 (Argentina) following a change 
in economic assumptions and adoption of a revised open pit mine plan.
(6)  
Mantos Blancos – Oxide (Vat and Heap Leach): The increase in Mineral Resources is due to new drilling information and a change in economic assumptions 
(increase in long-term metal price).
(7)  
Mantos Blancos – Oxide (Dump Leach): The Mineral Resources increase due to the inclusion of additional secondary leaching material from Dump Este, Old 
Concentrator Course Tailings and the Mercedes stockpile.
(8) 
Mantoverde – Oxide (Heap Leach): The increase in Mineral Resources at Mantoverde North and South pits (Phase 4 mine plan) is a result of updated 
economic assumptions and new drilling information. ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
236 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013
 
COPPER  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
Copper – Projects 
ORE RESERVES
Mine
Tonnes Grade Contained Metal
Attributable % Life Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Quellaveco (OP)
(1)
81.9 28 Mt Mt %TCu %TCu kt kt
Sulphide Proved 701.8 701.8 0.65 0.65 4,562 4,562
Flotation Copper Probable 214.6 214.6 0.63 0.63 1,352 1,352
Total 916.4 916.4 0.65 0.65 5,914 5,914
%Mo %Mo
Proved 0.019 0.019 133 133
Molybdenum Probable 0.021 0.021 45 45
Total 0.019 0.019 178 178
Copper – Projects
MINERAL RESOURCES
Tonnes Grade Contained Metal
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Quellaveco (OP)
(1)
81.9 Mt Mt %TCu %TCu kt kt
Sulphide Measured 285.1 284.2 0.35 0.35 998 990
Flotation Indicated 807.5 807.9 0.41 0.41 3,311 3,290
Copper Measured and Indicated 1,092.7 1,092.0 0.39 0.39 4,309 4,280
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 6.9 6.9 0.79 0.79 54 54
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 858.0 877.9 0.33 0.33 2,831 2,893
Total Inferred 864.9 884.8 0.33 0.33 2,886 2,947
%Mo %Mo
Measured 0.010 0.015 29 43
Indicated 0.015 0.015 121 121
Molybdenum Measured and Indicated 0.014 0.015 150 164
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 0.010 – 1 –
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 0.011 0.015 93 132
Total Inferred 0.011 0.015 93 132
Mantoverde Development Project
(2)
100 %TCu %TCu
Sulphide Measured 118.2 106.6 0.71 0.68 839 725
Flotation Indicated 54.6 41.5 0.64 0.66 349 274
Measured and Indicated 172.8 148.1 0.69 0.67 1,189 999
Inferred 147.9 78.0 0.61 0.68 902 530
Los Sulfatos
(3)
50.1 %TCu %TCu
Sulphide Inferred 1,200.0 1,200.0 1.46 1.46 17,520 17,520
San Enrique Monolito
(4)
50.1 %TCu %TCu
Sulphide Inferred 900.0 900.0 0.81 0.81 7,290 7,290
West Wall (OP)
(5)
50.0 %TCu %TCu
Sulphide Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 495.0 – 0.55 – 2,723 –
Measured and Indicated 495.0 – 0.55 – 2,723 –
Inferred 970.0 750.0 0.48 0.54 4,656 4,050
MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES. 
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit. Mine Life = The extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only.
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or 
Measured Resource after continued exploration. 
 
Los Sulfatos and San Enrique Monolito are part of Anglo American Sur. 
Mantoverde Development Project is part of Anglo American Norte. 
West Wall is a Joint Venture with GlencoreXstrata. 
The Pebble project is not reported in 2013 as Anglo American has elected to withdraw from the project.
(1) 
Quellaveco: Mineral Resources are quoted above a 0.2 %TCu cut-off within an optimised pit shell. The slight change is due to updated economic assumptions 
used to define the resource shell.
(2) 
Mantoverde Development Project: Mineral Resources are quoted above a 0.35 %TCu cut-off. The increase in Mineral Resources is due to a change in 
economic assumptions (increase in long-term metal price) and pit optimisation parameters. Reported as Mantoverde Sulphide Project in 2012. 
Mineral Resource estimates for oxide material planned to be exposed during pre-stripping operations for the sulphides are as follows:  
Measured 48.0 Mt at 0.40 %ASCu; Indicated 5.7 Mt at 0.34 %ASCu; Inferred 3.4 Mt at 0.32 %ASCu.
(3) 
Los Sulfatos: The reported resources include mineralisation inside a 1% nominal copper grade cut-off envelope down to the current drillhole  
depths of 1,000 metres below surface. The test for reasonable prospects of eventual economic extraction is based on an underground operation.
(4) 
San Enrique Monolito: The test for reasonable prospects of eventual economic extraction is based on an underground operation.
(5) 
West Wall: Mineral Resources are quoted above a 0.3 %TCu cut-off within an optimised pit shell. The increase in Mineral Resources is due to new drilling 
information leading to an update of the geological model.
 
 
Audits related to the generation of the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were carried out by independent consultants during 2013 at the following projects:
Los Sulfatos. ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013 237
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
NICKEL  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
NICKEL
The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral 
Resources and Ore Reserves (The JORC Code, 2004) as a minimum standard. The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral 
Resources, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately. Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
Nickel – Operations
ORE RESERVES
Mine
Tonnes Grade Contained Metal
Attributable % Life Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Barro Alto (OP)
(1)
100 17 Mt Mt %Ni %Ni kt kt
Saprolite Proved 20.0 23.4 1.71 1.71 342 401
Probable 25.2 23.4 1.42 1.51 358 353
Total 45.3 46.8 1.55 1.61 700 754
Niquelândia (OP)
(2)
100 23 %Ni %Ni
Saprolite Proved 4.5 3.9 1.31 1.35 59 52
Probable 1.1 1.0 1.25 1.32 14 14
Total 5.6 4.9 1.30 1.34 73 66
Nickel – Operations
MINERAL RESOURCES
Tonnes Grade Contained Metal
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Barro Alto (OP) 100 Mt Mt %Ni %Ni kt kt
Saprolite Measured 8.5 9.0 1.34 1.43 114 129
Direct Feed
(3)
Indicated 7.7 5.0 1.31 1.30 101 65
Measured and Indicated 16.3 14.0 1.32 1.38 215 193
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 32.5 36.6 1.51 1.52 491 556
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 14.7 13.1 1.22 1.18 179 155
Total Inferred 47.2 49.7 1.42 1.43 670 710
Ferruginous Laterite Measured 2.4 3.3 1.25 1.28 30 42
Stockpile
(4)
Indicated 5.6 3.8 1.17 1.10 65 42
Measured and Indicated 7.9 7.1 1.19 1.19 95 85
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 1.2 1.5 1.08 1.07 13 16
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 0.0 0.0 1.06 1.00 0 0
Total Inferred 1.2 1.6 1.08 1.07 13 17
Niquelândia (OP)
(5)
100 %Ni %Ni
Saprolite Measured 2.5 2.8 1.21 1.25 31 35
Indicated 2.4 2.9 1.20 1.23 28 35
Measured and Indicated 4.9 5.7 1.21 1.24 59 70
Inferred (in LOM Plan) – – – – – –
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) – – – – – –
Total Inferred – – – – – –
MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES.
Nickel – Projects 
MINERAL RESOURCES
Tonnes Grade Contained Metal
Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Jacaré
(6)
100 Mt Mt %Ni %Ni kt kt
Ferruginous Laterite Measured 6.3 6.3 1.15 1.15 72 72
Indicated 53.8 53.8 1.21 1.21 653 653
Measured and Indicated 60.1 60.1 1.21 1.21 726 726
Inferred 125.0 125.0 1.17 1.17 1,468 1,468
Saprolite Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 39.6 39.6 1.49 1.49 589 589
Measured and Indicated 39.6 39.6 1.49 1.49 589 589
Inferred 81.9 81.9 1.39 1.39 1,138 1,138
Mining method: OP = Open Pit. Mine Life = The extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only.
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or 
Measured Resource after continued exploration. 
 
(1)
  Barro Alto – Ore Reserves: The decrease is primarily due to production along with reallocation of Ore Reserves to Mineral Resources. The decrease is partially 
offset by increases due to updated economic assumptions and refinement of the geological model to take into account additional drilling and more detailed 
ore-waste contacts captured from pit mapping.
(2) 
Niquelândia – Ore Reserves: The increase is due to updated economic assumptions which are partially offset by reallocation of Ore Reserves to Mineral 
Resources. Niquelândia Mine is adjacent to the Codemin Ferro-Nickel smelter which is fed with ore from Barro Alto which is blended with Niquelândia ore to 
achieve an appropriate smelter feed chemistry.
(3) 
Barro Alto – Direct Feed: Mineral Resources are quoted above a 0.9 %Ni cut-off, below an iron content of 30 %Fe and a SiO
2
/MgO ratio of less than or equal to 
1.80. A surface stockpile of 5.4 Mt at 1.31 %Ni is included in the Saprolite Mineral Resources.
(4) 
Barro Alto – Stockpile: Material that is scheduled for stockpiling or has already been mined and stockpiled. A surface stockpile of 0.7 Mt at 1.19 %Ni is included 
in the Ferruginous Laterite Mineral Resources.
(5) 
Niquelândia – Mineral Resources: Mineral Resources are quoted above a 0.9 %Ni cut-off, below an Iron content of 30% Fe and a SiO
2
/MgO ratio of less than or 
equal to 1.75. The decrease is due to updated economic assumptions which are partially offset by reallocation of Ore Reserves to Mineral Resources.
(6) 
Jacaré: The Mineral Resources are reported within a pit shell developed for the Concept Study with a cut-off of 1.3 %Ni. A minimum mineralised width of 1m must 
be present to allow material to be categorised as higher-grade Saprolite Mineral Resource. The Saprolite Resources are a combination of higher-grade resources 
(> 1.3 %Ni) that are expected to feed a pyrometallurgical treatment facility and lower-grade resources (1.3 – 0.9 %Ni) that could be used to neutralise the acid in 
the proposed hydrometallurgical treatment of the Ferruginous Laterite material while still recovering Nickel in the process. The Plano de Aproveitamento 
Economico (PAE) is under consideration by Brazil’s Departamento Nacional de Produção Mineral (DNPM). 
  ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
238 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013
 
ANGLO AMERICAN NIÓBIO BRASIL LIMITADA
The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral 
Resources and Ore Reserves (The JORC Code, 2012) as a minimum standard. The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral 
Resources, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately. Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
Niobium – Operations
Mine
Tonnes Grade Contained Product
ORE RESERVES Attributable % Life Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Boa Vista (OP) 100 1 Mt Mt %Nb 2 O 5 %Nb 2 O 5 kt kt
Catalão II Carbonatite Complex Proved 0.8 0.8 1.21 1.31 10 10
Oxide
(1)
Probable 0.4 0.3 1.03 1.01 5 3
Total 1.3 1.0 1.15 1.24 14 13
Mina II (OP) 100 1 %Nb 2 O 5 %Nb 2 O 5
Catalão I Carbonatite Complex Proved 0.4 0.4 1.16 1.13 4 4
Oxide Probable – – – – – –
Total 0.4 0.4 1.16 1.13 4 4
Tailings 100 18 %Nb 2 O 5 %Nb 2 O 5
Catalão I Carbonatite Complex Proved – – – – – –
Phosphate Tailings
(2)
Probable 14.5 2.0 0.69 0.73 100 14
Total 14.5 2.0 0.69 0.73 100 14
Niobium – Operations
Tonnes Grade Contained Product
MINERAL RESOURCES Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Boa Vista (OP) 100 Mt Mt %Nb 2 O 5 %Nb 2 O 5 kt kt
Catalão II Carbonatite Complex Measured 0.2 0.8 1.56 1.21 3 9
Oxide
(3)
Indicated 0.4 0.3 1.18 0.86 5 3
Measured and Indicated 0.6 1.0 1.30 1.11 8 12
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 0.2 0.2 0.91 0.91 2 1
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 0.5 0.7 0.79 0.82 4 5
Total Inferred 0.7 0.8 0.83 0.84 6 7
MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES.  
 
Niobium – Projects
Mine
Tonnes Grade Contained Product
ORE RESERVES Attributable % Life Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Boa Vista 100 18 Mt Mt %Nb 2 O 5 %Nb 2 O 5 kt kt
Catalão II Carbonatite Complex Proved 0.2 – 1.24 – 3 –
Fresh Rock (OP)
(4)
Probable 23.8 – 0.95 – 226 –
Total 24.0 – 0.95 – 229 –
Niobium – Projects
Tonnes Grade Contained Product
MINERAL RESOURCES Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Area Leste 100 Mt Mt %Nb 2 O 5 %Nb 2 O 5 kt kt
Catalão I Carbonatite Complex Measured – 1.8 – 1.32 – 24
Oxide (OP)
(5)
Indicated – 0.5 – 1.13 – 6
Measured and Indicated – 2.3 – 1.28 – 30
Inferred 2.9 0.0 1.25 0.74 37 0
Catalão I Carbonatite Complex Measured – 8.2 – 1.24 – 101
Fresh Rock (UG)
(6)
Indicated – 4.7 – 1.20 – 57
Measured and Indicated – 12.9 – 1.23 – 158
Inferred 11.8 1.3 1.17 1.12 138 14
Boa Vista 100 %Nb 2 O 5 %Nb 2 O 5
Catalão II Carbonatite Complex Measured – 0.6 – 0.97 – 5
Fresh Rock (OP)
(7)
Indicated 4.8 28.6 0.98 0.95 47 273
Measured and Indicated 4.8 29.2 0.98 0.95 47 278
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 1.3 – 0.86 – 11 –
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 9.2 9.2 1.11 1.03 102 94
Total Inferred 10.5 9.2 1.08 1.03 113 94
Catalão II Carbonatite Complex Measured – – – – – –
Fresh Rock (UG)
(8)
Indicated – – – – – –
Measured and Indicated – – – – – –
Inferred 10.7 – 0.99 – 106 –
Mina I 100 %Nb 2 O 5 %Nb 2 O 5
Catalão I Carbonatite Complex Measured – – – – – –
Oxide (OP)
(9)
Indicated – – – – – –
Measured and Indicated – – – – – –
Inferred 1.7 – 0.79 – 13 –
Mina II 100 %Nb 2 O 5 %Nb 2 O 5
Catalão I Carbonatite Complex Measured – – – – – –
Fresh Rock (OP)
(10)
Indicated – – – – – –
Measured and Indicated – – – – – –
Inferred 5.1 – 1.17 – 60 –
Catalão I Carbonatite Complex Measured – 5.5 – 1.24 – 69
Fresh Rock (UG)
(11)
Indicated – 0.9 – 1.17 – 11
Measured and Indicated – 6.4 – 1.23 – 79
Inferred 1.4 0.8 1.08 1.19 15 10
Morro do Padre 100 %Nb 2 O 5 %Nb 2 O 5
Catalão II Carbonatite Complex Measured – – – – – –
Fresh Rock (UG)
(12)
Indicated – 2.6 – 1.27 – 33
Measured and Indicated – 2.6 – 1.27 – 33
Inferred 8.3 8.9 1.26 1.54 104 138
MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES. 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit. Mine Life = the extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only. 
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or 
Measured Resource after continued exploration.
NIOBIUM  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013 239
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
NIOBIUM  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
(1) 
Boa Vista – Oxide Ore Reserves (OP): The increase is primarily due to ongoing grade control and a new drilling campaign identifying additional ore. 
(2) 
Phosphate Tailings Ore Reserves: The fines portion of the Phosphate tailings from Chapadão are processed in the Niobium Tailings Plant to recover Niobium. 
The increase is a result of the approval of the Boa Vista Fresh Rock project enabling the tailings plant to continue operating once the Oxide Reserves are depleted.
(3) 
Boa Vista – Oxide Mineral Resources (OP): The Oxide Resources are reported above a 0.5% Nb
2
O
5
 cut-off. The decrease is due to the introduction of a new 
mine plan which allows additional Mineral Resources to be converted to Ore Reserves. 
(4) 
Boa Vista – Fresh Rock Ore Reserves (OP): Approval of the Boa Vista Fresh Rock project permits the declaration of Ore Reserves.
(5) 
Area Leste – Oxide Mineral Resources (OP): The Oxide Resources are reported above a 0.5% Nb
2
O
5
 cut-off. The increase is due to reallocation of Ore 
Reserves to Mineral Resource following a reclassification of historical estimates to the Inferred category. 
(6) 
Area Leste – Fresh Rock Mineral Resources (UG): The Fresh Rock Resources are reported above a 0.7 %Nb
2
O
5
 cut-off. The difference is attributable to the 
application of underground mining as the basis for reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
(7) 
Boa Vista – Fresh Rock Mineral Resources (OP): The Fresh Rock Resources are reported above a 0.5 %Nb
2
O
5
 cut-off. The decrease is the result of Mineral 
Resources conversion to Ore Reserves which is partially offset by a change in the slope angle of the pit allowing more Mineral Resources to be declared.
(8) 
Boa Vista – Fresh Rock Mineral Resources (UG): The Fresh Rock Resources are reported above a 0.5 %Nb
2
O
5
 cut-off. The application of underground 
mining as the basis for reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction allows for declaration of this resource for the first time.
(9) 
Mina I – Oxide Mineral Resources (OP): The Oxide Resources are reported above a 0.5% Nb
2
O
5
 cut-off. The Mina I Ore Reserves (previously declared as part 
of Boa Vista – Oxides) were reallocated to Mineral Resource following re-classification of historical estimates to Inferred.
(10) 
Mina II – Fresh Rock Mineral Resources (OP): The Fresh Rock Resources are reported above a 0.7 %Nb
2
O
5
 cut-off. The application of an open pit mining 
method is the basis for reasonable prospect for eventual economic extraction of this material, formerly considered for underground extraction and 
reclassification of historical estimates to the Inferred category has also been applied.
(11) 
Mina II – Fresh Rock Mineral Resources (UG): The Fresh Rock Resources are reported above a 0.7 %Nb
2
O
5
 cut-off. Application of underground mining 
method is the basis for defining reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction for this material and the declaration of a Mineral Resource.
(12) 
Morro do Padre – Fresh Rock Mineral Resources (UG): The Fresh Rock Resources are reported above a 0.7 %Nb
2
O
5
 cut-off. Application of underground 
mining method is the basis for defining reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction of this material and reclassification of historical estimates to the 
Inferred category has also been applied. 
 
Following the reclassification of historical estimates to the Inferred category in order to ensure compliance with Anglo American standards, a systematic 
programme of re-analysis of historical samples and additional drilling is underway to upgrade the confidence in the project resources.  ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
240 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013
 
ANGLO AMERICAN FOSFATOS BRASIL LIMITADA 
The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral 
Resources and Ore Reserves (The JORC Code, 2012) as a minimum standard. The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral 
Resources, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately. Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
Phosphates – Operations
ORE RESERVES Attributable %
Mine
Tonnes Grade
Life Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012
Chapadão (OP)
(1)
100 20 Mt Mt %P 2 O 5 %P 2 O 5
Carbonatite Complex Proved 41.0 83.1 12.5 14.1
Oxide Probable 77.0 151.0 13.0 13.0
Total 118.1 234.0 12.8 13.4
Phosphates – Operations
MINERAL RESOURCES Attributable %
Tonnes Grade
Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012
Chapadão (OP)
(2)
100 Mt Mt %P 2 O 5 %P 2 O 5
Carbonatite Complex Measured – 3.9 – 13.4
Oxide Indicated 0.1 60.2 13.2 11.8
Measured and Indicated 0.1 64.1 13.2 11.9
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 19.5 7.5 13.6 13.2
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 165.7 50.4 12.1 10.9
Total Inferred 185.2 57.9 12.3 11.2
Phosphates – Projects
MINERAL RESOURCES Attributable %
Tonnes Grade
Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012
Coqueiros (OP)
(3)
100 Mt Mt %P 2 O 5 %P 2 O 5
Carbonatite Complex Measured 1.8 1.8 10.5 10.5
Oxide Indicated 16.5 16.5 12.9 12.9
Measured and Indicated 18.3 18.3 12.6 12.6
Inferred 26.2 26.2 11.2 11.2
Carbonatite Complex Measured 1.2 1.2 7.3 7.3
Fresh Rock Indicated 34.0 34.0 8.5 8.5
Measured and Indicated 35.2 35.2 8.5 8.5
Inferred 16.2 16.2 7.6 7.6
MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES.  
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit. Mine Life = the extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only.
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated  
or Measured Resource after continued exploration.
Chapadão Mine is the formal name of the Anglo American Fosfatos Brasil Limitada Phosphate mining operation near Ouvidor (reported as Ouvidor in 2012).
(1) 
Chapadão – Oxide Ore Reserves: The decrease is primarily due to reallocation of Ore Reserves to Mineral Resources which occurred when the new resource 
classification methodology (balanced scorecard) was applied resulting in the downgrade of confidence of portions of the reserve. The Mine Life is also reduced 
as a result. The decrease is offset by the inclusion of new drilling information in the updated geological model and a re-assay and drilling program is planned to 
upgrade confidence in future model updates.
(2) 
Chapadão – Oxide Mineral Resources: Mineral Resources are quoted above a 6 %P
2
O
5
 cut-off and a CaO/P
2
O
5
 ratio between 1 and 1.5. The increase and 
downgrading of the Mineral Resources is as a result of the application of the new resource classification methodology (balanced scorecard) which resulted in 
reallocation of Ore Reserves to Mineral Resources. 
(3) 
Coqueiros: The Oxide mineralisation is defined by a cut-off grade of 7 %P
2
O
5
 and a CaO/ P
2
O
5
 ratio between 1 and 1.4. The Fresh Rock resources are  
defined by a cut-off grade of 5% P
2
O
5
. The exploration drilling report submitted to Brazil’s Departamento Nacional de Produção Mineral (DNPM) was approved 
late in 2013 and the updated estimates will be published in 2015.
PHOSPHATES  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013 241
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
PLATINUM GROUP METALS  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
ANGLO AMERICAN PLATINUM LIMITED
The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in compliance with The South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results,  
Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves (The SAMREC Code, 2007 Edition as amended July 2009). Operations and Projects outside South Africa were 
compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (The JORC Code, 2012) as a 
minimum standard. Details of the individual operations appear in Anglo American Platinum’s Annual Report. Merensky Reef and UG2 Reef Mineral Resources 
are reported over an economic and mineable cut appropriate to the specific reef. The figures reported represent 100% of the Mineral Resources and Ore 
Reserves attributable to Anglo American Platinum Limited unless otherwise noted. Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies. 
Anglo American plc’s interest in Anglo American Platinum Limited is 78.0%.
Platinum – South Africa Operations
Tonnes Grade Contained Metal Contained Metal
ORE RESERVES Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Merensky Reef
(1)(2)
 Mt Mt 4E PGE 4E PGE 4E tonnes 4E tonnes 4E Moz 4E Moz
Proved 55.0 59.8 4.79 4.79 263.3 286.5 8.5 9.2
Probable 17.3 22.5 4.52 4.49 78.2 100.9 2.5 3.2
Total 72.3 82.3 4.72 4.71 341.5 387.4 11.0 12.5
UG2 Reef
(1)(3)
Proved 316.2 389.8 4.13 4.05 1,306.8 1,578.7 42.0 50.8
Probable 91.0 128.6 4.20 4.46 381.7 573.6 12.3 18.4
Total 407.2 518.4 4.15 4.15 1,688.5 2,152.3 54.3 69.2
Platreef
(4)
Proved 705.8 587.5 2.73 2.75 1,925.2 1,617.3 61.9 52.0
Proved primary ore stockpile
(5)
28.7 26.7 1.59 1.72 45.7 46.0 1.5 1.5
Probable 901.4 394.6 2.70 2.81 2,433.7 1,108.2 78.2 35.6
Total 1,635.9 1,008.9 2.69 2.75 4,404.6 2,771.5 141.6 89.1
All Reefs Proved 1,105.7 1,063.9 3.20 3.32 3,541.0 3,528.5 113.8 113.4
Merensky, UG2 & Platreef Probable 1,009.6 545.7 2.87 3.27 2,893.6 1,782.7 93.0 57.3
Total
(6)
2,115.3 1,609.6 3.04 3.30 6,434.6 5,311.2 206.9 170.8
Tailings
(7)
Proved – – – – – – – –
Probable 23.7 15.9 1.08 1.02 25.5 16.1 0.8 0.5
Total 23.7 15.9 1.08 1.02 25.5 16.1 0.8 0.5
Platinum – Zimbabwe Operations
Tonnes Grade Contained Metal Contained Metal
ORE RESERVES Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Main Sulphide Zone
(8)
Mt Mt 4E PGE 4E PGE 4E tonnes 4E tonnes 4E Moz 4E Moz
Proved 14.1 13.9 3.72 3.85 52.3 53.4 1.7 1.7
Probable 36.6 39.8 3.68 3.73 134.6 148.5 4.3 4.8
Total
(9)
50.7 53.7 3.69 3.76 186.9 201.9 6.0 6.5
Tonnes are quoted as dry metric tonnes. 
4E PGE is the sum of Platinum, Palladium, Rhodium and Gold grades in grammes per tonne (g/t).
Contained Metal is presented in metric tonnes and million troy ounces (Moz). 
Concentrator recoveries for Merensky Reef range from 86% to 89%, UG2 Reef from 82% to 87%, Platreef from 70% to 80% and Main Sulphide Zone from 70% to 78%. 
Tailings reprocessing recoveries range from 30 to 40%.
(1) 
Merensky Reef and UG2 Reef: The pay limits built into the basic mining equation are directly linked to the 2014 Business plan. The pay limit is based on Cost 4 
which consists of ‘Direct Cash Cost’ (on and off mine), ‘Other Indirect Costs’ and ‘Stay in Business Capital’ (on and off mine). The reserve pay-limit varies across 
all operations between 2.5g/t and 4.8g/t (4E PGE). The range is a function of various factors including depth of the orebody, geological complexity, infrastructure 
and economic parameters. Changes associated with the strategic review resulted in a reallocation of reported Ore Reserves to Mineral Resources mainly in the 
Rustenburg area and the impact thereof are reflected in the 2013 figures.
(2) 
Merensky Reef: The Ore Reserve tonnage and 4E ounce content decreased, mainly in response to economic assumptions resulting in reallocation of Ore 
Reserves to Mineral Resources at Rustenburg’s Khomanani, Khuseleka and Thembelani mines. These decreases were partially offset by the increase in Ore 
Reserves mainly from Dishaba, Union and Bokoni mines where additional Mineral Resources have been converted to Ore Reserves.
(3) 
UG2 Reef: The Ore Reserve tonnage and 4E ounce content decreased largely due to economic assumptions and the resulting reallocation of Ore Reserves to 
Mineral Resources at the Rustenburg mines (Khuseleka, Thembelani, Khomanani, Siphumelele 1 and Siphumelele 2 – School of Mines) as well as at Tumela and 
Union mines. These decreases were partially offset by the increase in Ore Reserves mainly from Siphumelele 3, Dishaba and Bathopele mines where Mineral 
Resources have been converted to Ore Reserves. 
(4) 
Platreef: For Mogalakwena North, Central and South the 4E pay limit is 1.0 g/t. For Zwartfontein South the pay limit is 1.7 g/t.  
The Ore Reserves tonnage and 4E ounce content increased materially due to new drilling information allowing an upgrade in the resource confidence and hence 
conversion of more Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves as well as changes to the structural interpretation in the updated geological model. A revised pit design 
was also introduced (due to the Atlatsa refinancing transaction) which now incorporates the southern portion of the Boikgantsho project and allows deeper 
Mogalakwena resources to be extracted with two additional benches.
(5) 
Platreef stockpiles: Mined ore retained for future treatment and reported separately as Proved Ore Reserves but included in the Total Platreef Ore Reserves. 
(6) 
Alternative units – All Reefs Total: Tonnage in million short tons (Mton) and associated grade in troy ounces per short ton (oz/ton) for 2013 is: 
Total – 2,331.7 Mton (2012: 1,774.3 Mton) 
Total – 0.089 oz/ton (2012: 0.096 oz/ton)
(7) 
Tailings: Operating tailings dams are not evaluated and therefore not reported as part of the Ore Reserves. At Rustenburg mine and at Union mines, dormant 
tailings dams have been evaluated and are separately reported as tailings Ore Reserves.
(8) 
Main Sulphide Zone: The Ore Reserve tonnage and 4E ounce content decreased mainly due to production. Anglo American Platinum Limited currently has an 
effective 100% interest in Unki Mine, subject to the finalisation of the indigenisation agreement.
(9) 
Alternative units – Main Sulphide Zone: Tonnage in million short tons (Mton) and associated grade in troy ounces per short ton (oz/ton) for 2013 is: 
Total – 55.8 Mton (2012: 59.2 Mton) 
Total – 0.108 oz/ton (2012: 0.1 10 oz/ton) ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
242 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013
 
PLATINUM GROUP METALS  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
Platinum – South Africa Operations 
Tonnes Grade Contained Metal Contained Metal
MINERAL RESOURCES Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Merensky Reef
(1)(2)
Mt Mt 4E PGE 4E PGE 4E tonnes 4E tonnes 4E Moz 4E Moz
Measured 238.5 189.3 5.47 5.63 1,305.2 1,065.1 42.0 34.2
Indicated 326.4 290.6 5.41 5.51 1,766.2 1,600.1 56.8 51.4
Measured and Indicated 564.9 479.9 5.44 5.55 3,071.4 2,665.2 98.8 85.7
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 6.6 9.8 6.47 6.33 43.0 62.1 1.4 2.0
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 564.1 563.8 5.06 5.11 2,853.9 2,879.5 91.8 92.6
Total Inferred 570.7 573.6 5.08 5.13 2,896.9 2,941.6 93.1 94.6
UG2 Reef
(1)(3)
Measured 656.5 475.2 5.19 5.14 3,409.5 2,441.0 109.6 78.5
Indicated 681.4 656.4 5.16 5.13 3,516.4 3,367.8 113.1 108.3
Measured and Indicated 1,338.0 1,131.6 5.18 5.13 6,925.9 5,808.8 222.7 186.8
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 4.3 7.3 4.79 5.23 20.4 38.3 0.7 1.2
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 596.4 604.8 5.35 5.36 3,189.4 3,239.5 102.5 104.2
Total Inferred 600.6 612.1 5.34 5.35 3,209.8 3,277.8 103.2 105.4
Platreef
(4)
Measured 155.1 151.2 2.62 2.59 406.1 391.3 13.1 12.6
Indicated 740.9 740.7 2.17 2.11 1,605.0 1,560.9 51.6 50.2
Measured and Indicated 896.0 891.8 2.24 2.19 2,011.1 1,952.2 64.7 62.8
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 72.9 25.8 2.61 4.05 190.2 104.5 6.1 3.4
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 1,101.9 1,560.5 1.81 2.10 1,997.5 3,284.1 64.2 105.6
Total Inferred 1,174.8 1,586.3 1.86 2.14 2,187.7 3,388.6 70.3 108.9
All Reefs Measured 1,050.1 815.7 4.88 4.78 5,120.8 3,897.4 164.6 125.3
Merensky, UG2 & Platreef Indicated 1,748.8 1,687.7 3.94 3.87 6,887.6 6,528.8 221.4 209.9
Measured and Indicated
(5)
2,798.9 2,503.4 4.29 4.16 12,008.4 10,426.2 386.1 335.2
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 83.8 43.0 3.02 4.77 253.6 204.9 8.2 6.6
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 2,262.3 2,729.1 3.55 3.45 8,040.8 9,403.1 258.5 302.3
Total Inferred 2,346.2 2,772.1 3.54 3.47 8,294.4 9,608.0 266.7 308.9
Tailings
(6)
Measured 137.5 87.6 0.95 1.08 130.1 94.3 4.2 3.0
Indicated 22.8 15.1 1.02 1.13 23.4 17.0 0.8 0.5
Measured and Indicated 160.3 102.7 0.96 1.08 153.5 111.3 4.9 3.6
Inferred (in LOM Plan) – – – – – – – –
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 1.2 – 0.90 – 1.1 – 0.0 –
Total Inferred 1.2 – 0.90 – 1.1 – 0.0 –
MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES. 
Platinum – Zimbabwe Operations 
Tonnes Grade Contained Metal Contained Metal
MINERAL RESOURCES Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Main Sulphide Zone
(7)
Mt Mt 4E PGE 4E PGE 4E tonnes 4E tonnes 4E Moz 4E Moz
Measured 23.4 9.5 3.83 4.04 89.6 38.5 2.9 1.2
Indicated 114.6 104.1 4.35 4.23 498.2 439.7 16.0 14.1
Measured and Indicated
(8)
138.1 113.6 4.26 4.21 587.8 478.2 18.9 15.4
Inferred (in LOM Plan) 0.0 0.3 3.48 3.32 0.1 1.0 0.0 0.0
Inferred (ex. LOM Plan) 45.1 72.3 4.64 4.58 208.9 330.8 6.7 10.6
Total Inferred 45.1 72.6 4.64 4.57 209.0 331.8 6.7 10.7
MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES.
Tonnes are quoted as dry metric tonnes.  
4E PGE is the sum of Platinum, Palladium, Rhodium and Gold grades in grammes per tonne (g/t). 
Contained Metal is presented in metric tonnes and million troy ounces (Moz). 
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or 
Measured Resource after continued exploration.
(1) 
Merensky Reef and UG2 Reef: The Mineral Resources are estimated over a practical minimum mining width suitable for the deposit known as the ‘Resource 
Cut’. The ‘Resource Cut’ width takes cognisance of the mining method and geotechnical aspects in the hanging wall or footwall of the reef.  
The Mineral Resource tonnage and 4E ounce content increased due to the incorporation of the eastern part of the Ga-Phasha project (100% attributable to 
AAPL for 2013) into Twickenham Mine as a result of the execution of the Atlatsa refinancing transaction. 
A decrease of Mineral Resources occurred at Magazynskraal due to disposal of this project.
(2) 
Merensky Reef: Additionally at Twickenham an advanced ‘Resource Cut’ evaluation strategy has been applied, together with new drilling information resulted in 
an increase in Mineral Resources. Due to economic assumptions previously reported Ore Reserves at some Rustenburg mines (Khuseleka, Thembelani, 
Khomanani) have been reallocated back to Mineral Resources. 
(3) 
UG2 Reef: Due to economic assumptions previously reported Ore Reserves at the Rustenburg mines (Khuseleka, Thembelani, Khomanani, Siphumelele 1 and 
Siphumelele 2 – School of Mines) as well as at Tumela and Union mines have been reallocated back to Mineral Resources. 
(4) 
Platreef: A 1.0g/t (4E PGE) cut-off is used to define Platreef Mineral Resources. As a result of conversion of Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves, the Platreef 
Resources decreased. No Mineral Resources applicable to underground mining have been included. However, stockpile material is included which comprises 
calc-silicate and oxidised material with a cut-off grade of greater than 3g/t (5.9 Mt / 0.6 Moz). Due to the successful execution of the Atlatsa refinancing 
transaction, 100% of Boikgantsho is now attributable to Anglo American Platinum Limited (AAPL) and the southern portion of the Boikgantsho project has now 
been incorporated into the latest Mogalakwena pit design.  
Remaining Boikgantsho Mineral Resources are separately tabulated and reported under Platinum – Other 3E Projects.
(5) 
Alternative units – All Reefs Measured and Indicated: Tonnage in million short tons (Mton) and associated grade in troy ounces per short ton (oz/ton) for 2013 is: 
Measured and Indicated – 3,085.2 Mton (2012: 2,759.5 Mton) 
Measured and Indicated – 0.125 oz/ton (2012: 0.121 oz/ton)
(6) 
Tailings: Operating tailings dams are not evaluated and therefore not reported as part of the Mineral Resources. At Rustenburg, Amandelbult and Union mines, 
dormant dams have been evaluated and the tailing forms part of the Mineral Resource statement. 
(7)  
Main Sulphide Zone: The Mineral Resources tonnage and 4E ounce content decreases slightly due to new information. Oxidised material is not considered. 
Anglo American Platinum currently has an effective 100% interest in Southridge Limited, subject to the finalisation of the indigenisation agreement.
(8) 
Alternative units – Main Sulphide Zone Measured and Indicated: Tonnage in million short tons (Mton) and associated grade in troy ounces per short ton  
(oz/ton) for 2013 is: 
Measured and Indicated – 152.2 Mton (2012: 125.2 Mton) 
Measured and Indicated – 0.124 oz/ton (2012: 0.123 oz/ton) ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013 243
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
PLATINUM GROUP METALS  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
Platinum – Other 3E Projects
MINERAL RESOURCES 
Tonnes Grade Contained Metal Contained Metal
Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
South Africa Mt Mt 3E PGE 3E PGE 3E tonnes 3E tonnes 3E Moz 3E Moz
Boikgantsho
(1)
Measured – – – – – – – –
Platreef Indicated 45.5 37.0 1.22 1.30 55.4 47.9 1.8 1.5
Measured and Indicated 45.5 37.0 1.22 1.30 55.4 47.9 1.8 1.5
Inferred 3.3 1.8 1.14 1.14 3.8 2.1 0.1 0.1
3E PGE 3E PGE
Sheba’s Ridge
(2)
Measured 28.0 28.0 0.88 0.88 24.6 24.6 0.8 0.8
Indicated 34.0 34.0 0.85 0.85 29.1 29.1 0.9 0.9
Measured and Indicated 62.0 62.0 0.87 0.87 53.6 53.6 1.7 1.7
Inferred 149.9 149.9 0.96 0.96 144.5 144.5 4.6 4.6
Brazil 3E PGE 3E PGE
Pedra Branca
(3)
Inferred 6.6 6.6 2.27 2.27 15.0 15.0 0.5 0.5
Tonnes are quoted as dry metric tonnes.  
3E PGE is the sum of Platinum, Palladium and Gold grades in grammes per tonne (g/t). 
Contained Metal is presented in metric tonnes and million troy ounces (Moz).
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or 
Measured Resource after continued exploration.
(1) 
Boikgantsho: Anglo American Platinum Limited now holds an attributable interest of 100% of the Boikgantsho project. The increase in Mineral Resources is 
therefore due to the acquisition of Atlatsa’s attributable interest in the project.  
A cut-off grade of 1g/t (3E PGE) is applied for resource definition. 
(2) 
Sheba’s Ridge: Anglo American Platinum Limited holds an attributable interest of 35% of the Joint Venture between Anglo American Platinum Limited, Aquarius 
Platinum and the South African Industrial Development Corporation (IDC). A cut-off grade of 0.5g/t (3E PGE) is applied for resource definition.
(3) 
Pedra Branca: Anglo American Platinum Limited holds an attributable interest of 51% of the Joint Venture with Solitario Resources & Royalty.  
A cut-off of 0.7g/t (3E PGE) is applied for resource definition.
The following operations and projects contributed to the combined 2013 Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates stated per reef (excluding Other 3E Projects):
Operations: Reef Types Mining Method AAPL % Mine Life Total Ore Reserves (4E Moz)
Bafokeng Rasimone Platinum Mine (BRPM) MR/UG2 UG 33% 27 5.2
Bathopele Mine• UG2 UG 100% 14 3.8
Bokoni Platinum Mine MR/UG2 UG 49% 26 5.7
Dishaba Mine MR/UG2 UG 100% 27 16.3
Khuseleka Mine• MR/UG2 UG 100% 4 0.8
Kroondal and Marikana Platinum Mine UG2 UG & OC 50% 9 3.5
Modikwa Platinum Mine MR/UG2 UG 50% 21 4.4
Mogalakwena Mine PR OP 100% 27 141.6
Mototolo Platinum Mine UG2 UG 50% 5* 0.9
Pandora UG2 UG 42.5% 26 1.0
Siphumelele 1, 2 (School of Mines) and 3 Mines• MR/UG2 UG 100% 28 2.9
Thembelani Mine• MR/UG2 UG 100% 16 2.7
Tumela Mine MR/UG2 UG 100% 15 6.2
Twickenham Platinum Mine MR/UG2 UG 100% 20 4.9
Union North Mine MR/UG2 UG 85% 18 2.5
Union South Mine MR/UG2 UG 85% 26 4.4
Unki Mine MSZ UG 100% 30 6.0
Projects: %
Der Brochen Project MR/UG2 100%
Other Exploration Projects (portions of Driekop and at Rustenburg) MR/UG2 37.5% to 100%
Rustenburg – Non-Mine Projects MR/UG2 100%
Reef Types: MR = Merensky Reef, UG2 = UG2 Reef, PR = Platreef, MSZ = Main Sulphide Zone 
Mining method: OC = Open Cut, OP = Open Pit, UG = Underground 
AAPL % = Anglo American Platinum Limited attributable interest 
Mine Life = The extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only, considering the combined MR and UG2 production where applicable within the 
current Mining Right plus any anticipated extension to the Mining Right for which an application has been submitted and where there is reasonable expectation that this extension to be granted. 
+
Mine Life truncated to the last year of current Mining Right 
* Only five years of Ore Reserves are declared as per Glencore-Xstrata policy 
• Rustenburg Mines
Ga-Phasha project previously reported has now been split and incorporated into Bokoni and Twickenham mines. 
Khomanani excluded from Operations table as no Ore Reserves are reported for 2013. 
Anglo American Platinum Limited attributable portion of Magazynskraal project has been fully disposed of during 2013.
Changes in the Mine Life are due to AAPL conforming to the AA plc Mine Life calculation methodology, changes in economic assumptions and AAPL strategic review.
Information was provided by the Joint Venture partners for the following operations and projects: 
Operations – BRPM, Bokoni, Kroondal, Marikana, Modikwa, Mototolo, Pandora (only Ore Reserve information for BRPM and Modikwa) 
3E Projects – Boikgantsho, Pedra Branca, Sheba’s Ridge 
4E Projects – Der Brochen, Other Exploration Projects, Rustenburg – Non-Mine Projects
Audits related to the generation of the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were carried out by independent consultants during 2013 at the following operations: 
Bathopele, Dishaba, Mogalakwena, Siphumelele 1, Thembelani, Twickenham and Unki mines.
+
+
+
+ ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
244 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013
 
DE BEERS CANADA
The Diamond Reserve and Diamond Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the CIM Definition Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral 
Reserves. The figures reported represent 100% of the Diamond Reserves and Diamond Resources. Diamond Resources are quoted as inclusive of those used 
to calculate Diamond Reserves and must not be added to the Diamond Reserves. Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies. The mines, 
located in Canada, are operated under De Beers Canada Incorporated. 
De Beers Canada – Operations
LOM
BCO 
(mm)
Treated Tonnes Recovered Grade Saleable Carats
DIAMOND RESERVES Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Snap Lake (UG)
(1)
85.0 15 1.14 Mt Mt cpht cpht M¢ M¢
Kimberlite Proved – – – – – –
Probable 5.6 1.6 119.8 123.1 6.7 2.0
Total 5.6 1.6 119.8 123.1 6.7 2.0
Victor (OP)
(2)
85.0 5 1.50 cpht cpht
Kimberlite Proved – – – – – –
Probable 9.3 12.1 18.3 19.4 1.7 2.3
Total 9.3 12.1 18.3 19.4 1.7 2.3
De Beers Canada 85.0 multiple cpht cpht
TOT AL Kimerberlite Proved – – – – – –
Probable 14.9 13.7 56.4 31.7 8.4 4.3
Total 14.9 13.7 56.4 31.7 8.4 4.3
De Beers Canada – Operations
BCO 
(mm)
Tonnes Grade Carats
DIAMOND RESOURCES Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Snap Lake (UG)
(1)
85.0 1.14 Mt Mt cpht cpht M¢ M¢
Kimberlite Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 9.0 2.5 178.9 189.3 16.1 4.7
Measured and Indicated 9.0 2.5 178.9 189.3 16.1 4.7
Inferred 15.8 23.1 173.3 176.5 27.3 40.9
Victor (OP)
(2)
85.0 1.50 cpht cpht
Kimberlite Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 9.7 12.9 18.7 19.3 1.8 2.5
Measured and Indicated 9.7 12.9 18.7 19.3 1.8 2.5
Inferred 17.3 17.9 22.6 22.2 3.9 4.0
De Beers Canada 85.0 multiple cpht cpht
TOT AL Kimerberlite Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 18.7 15.4 96.1 46.9 17.9 7.2
Measured and Indicated 18.7 15.4 96.1 46.9 17.9 7.2
Inferred 33.0 41.1 94.5 109.2 31.2 44.8
DIAMOND RESOURCES INCLUDE DIAMOND RESERVES 
De Beers Canada – Projects
LOM
BCO 
(mm)
Treated Tonnes Recovered Grade Saleable Carats
DIAMOND RESERVES Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Gahcho Kué (OP)
(3)
43.4 11 1.00 Mt Mt cpht cpht M¢ M¢
Kimberlite Proved – – – – – –
Probable 31.0 31.0 153.7 153.7 47.6 47.6
Total 31.0 31.0 153.7 153.7 47.6 47.6
 
De Beers Canada – Projects
BCO 
(mm)
Tonnes Grade Carats
DIAMOND RESOURCES Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Gahcho Kué (OP)
(3)
43.4 1.00 Mt Mt cpht cpht M¢ M¢
Kimberlite Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 34.2 30.2 162.3 163.9 55.6 49.6
Measured and Indicated 34.2 30.2 162.3 163.9 55.6 49.6
Inferred 11.5 6.0 142.5 168.9 16.3 10.1
DIAMOND RESOURCES INCLUDE DIAMOND RESERVES. 
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit, UG = Underground. 
LOM = Life of Mine (years) is based on scheduled Probable Reserves including Indicated and some Inferred Resources considered for Life of Mine planning. 
Reported Diamond Reserves/Resources are based on a Bottom Cut Off (BCO) which refers to the bottom screen size aperture and varies between 1.00mm and 3.00mm (nominal square mesh).  
Unless stated otherwise tonnage is quoted as dry metric tonnes. Estimates of Diamond Reserve tonnes reflect the tonnage to be treated. 
Recovered Grade is quoted as carats per hundred metric tonnes (cpht). 
 
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated  
or Measured Resource after continued exploration. 
(1) 
Snap Lake: The increase in reserves is due to reclassification of a portion of Inferred Resources to Indicated Resources based on additional information from 
mining and underground drilling. The decrease in LOM is due to the mining rate increasing and a re-assessment of the economic outline of the ore body that 
resulted in the exclusion of blocks which are no longer economic. Indicated Resources are continuously developed from information gained from underground 
footwall drilling ahead of the mining face, resulting in an at least 18-month rolling Probable Reserve. Reserve development beyond 18 months is considered 
impractical due to technical and cost considerations.
(2) 
Victor: The decrease is primarily due to production as well as refinement of the geological model.  
The Stockpile Resource estimates at a 1.50 mm BCO of 25 k¢ (0.2 Mt at 13.2 cpht) Indicated Resource are excluded from the table. 
Tango Extension Pipe is reported as part of the Victor Resource and comprises 3.0M¢ in 13.4 Mt at a grade of 22.9 cpht (BCO is 1.50mm).
(3) 
Gahcho Kué: The increase in resources is due to completion of a deep drilling campaign at the Tuzo pipe.  
The project approval is subject to the successful conclusion of permitting and regulatory approvals.  
Gahcho Kué is a 51:49% Joint Venture between De Beers Canada Inc. and Mountain Province Diamonds Inc.
DIAMONDS  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013 245
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
DE BEERS CONSOLIDATED MINES
The Diamond Reserve and Diamond Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with The South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, 
Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves (The SAMREC Code, 2007 Edition as amended July 2009). The figures reported represent 100% of the Diamond 
Reserves and Diamond Resources. Diamond Resources are quoted as inclusive of those used to calculate Diamond Reserves and must not be added to the 
Diamond Reserves. Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies. The mines, located in South Africa, are operated under De Beers 
Consolidated Mines Proprietary Limited (DBCM). DBCM is indirectly owned, through DBCM Holdings, by De Beers Société Anonyme (74%) and its broad 
based black economic empowerment partner Ponahalo Investments Proprietary Limited (26%). 
Treated Tonnes Recovered Grade Saleable Carats
De Beers Consolidated Mines – Operations
BCO 
(mm) DIAMOND RESERVES Attributable % LOM Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Venetia
(1)
62.9 31 1.00 Mt Mt cpht cpht M¢ M¢
Kimberlite (OP)
(2)
Proved – – – – – –
Probable 31.3 33.6 96.3 97.5 30.1 32.8
Total 31.3 33.6 96.3 97.5 30.1 32.8
Kimberlite (UG)
(3)
Proved – – – – – –
Life Extension Project Probable 91.3 91.4 74.2 76.5 67.7 70.0
Total 91.3 91.4 74.2 76.5 67.7 70.0
De Beers Consolidated Mines 62.9 1.00 cpht cpht
TOT AL Kimerberlite Proved – – – – – –
Probable 122.6 125.0 79.8 82.2 97.9 102.7
Total 122.6 125.0 79.8 82.2 97.9 102.7
De Beers Consolidated Mines – Operations
BCO 
(mm)
Tonnes Grade Carats
DIAMOND RESOURCES Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Namaqualand (OC)
(4)
62.9 multiple
(3)
 Mt Mt cpht cpht M¢ M¢
Beach and Fluvial Placers Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 19.3 19.3 10.9 10.9 2.1 2.1
Measured and Indicated 19.3 19.3 10.9 10.9 2.1 2.1
Inferred 70.8 70.8 4.8 4.8 3.4 3.4
Venetia 62.9 1.00 cpht cpht
Kimberlite (OP)
(2)
Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 32.3 34.2 103.4 103.5 33.4 35.4
Measured and Indicated 32.3 34.2 103.4 103.5 33.4 35.4
Inferred 27.9 29.6 17.5 18.1 4.9 5.4
Kimberlite (UG) Measured – – – – – –
Life Extension Project Indicated 108.0 109.9 87.8 86.9 94.8 95.5
Measured and Indicated 108.0 109.9 87.8 86.9 94.8 95.5
Inferred 69.9 70.1 85.5 88.1 59.8 61.8
Voorspoed (OP)
(5)
62.9 1.47 cpht cpht
Kimberlite Measured – – – – – –
Indicated – – – – – –
Measured and Indicated – – – – – –
Inferred 33.0 37.9 21.9 21.6 7.2 8.2
De Beers Consolidated Mines 62.9 multiple cpht cpht
TOT AL Kimerberlite, Beach and Placer Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 159.5 163.3 81.7 81.4 130.3 133.0
Measured and Indicated 159.5 163.3 81.7 81.4 130.3 133.0
Inferred 201.6 208.4 37.3 37.8 75.3 78.7
DIAMOND RESOURCES INCLUDE DIAMOND RESERVES. 
De Beers Consolidated Mines – Tailings Operations
BCO 
(mm)
Tonnes Grade Carats
DIAMOND RESOURCES Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Kimberley Mines
(6)
62.9 1.15 Mt Mt cpht cpht M¢ M¢
Tailings Mineral Resource Measured – – – – – –
Indicated – – – – – –
Measured and Indicated – – – – – –
Inferred 32.1 38.2 12.1 12.2 3.9 4.7
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit, UG = Underground.  
LOM = Life of Mine (years) is based on scheduled Probable Reserves including Indicated and some Inferred Resources considered for Life of Mine planning. 
Reported Diamond Reserves/Resources are based on a Bottom Cut Off (BCO) which refers to the bottom screen size aperture and varies between 1.00mm and 3.00mm (nominal square mesh).  
Unless stated otherwise tonnage is quoted as dry metric tonnes. Estimates of Diamond Reserve tonnes reflect the tonnage to be treated.  
Recovered Grade is quoted as carats per hundred metric tonnes (cpht). 
 
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated  
or Measured Resource after continued exploration.
(1) 
Venetia: The LOM is stated as 31 years which reflects the full duration of the current Venetia consolidated OP and UG Life of Mine Plan.
(2) 
Venetia (OP): The Life of Mine plan includes the K01, K02 and K03 pipes. The 2014 mine plan includes a significant portion of Inferred Resources. 
The Old Recovery Tailings Resource estimate at a 1.00 mm BCO of 2.5 M¢ (0.1 Mt at 3844.6 cpht) Inferred Resource is excluded from the table.
(3) 
Venetia (UG): The reserves decrease due to a change in the mine design for the K02 pipe which transfers material to the open pit portion of the mine.
(4) 
Namaqualand: Bottom screen cut off details for Indicated and Inferred Resource estimates are as follows:  
1.00 mm BCO: Indicated – 1.1 M¢ (5.3 Mt at 20.9 cpht); Inferred – 2.2 M¢ (28.7 Mt at 7.6 cpht)  
1.15 mm BCO: Indicated – 1.0 M¢ (13.9 Mt at 7.0 cpht); Inferred – 0.9 M¢ (41.6 Mt at 2.3 cpht) 
1.47 mm BCO: Indicated – 20 k¢ (0.2 Mt at 13.0 cpht); Inferred – 0.3 M¢ (0.5 Mt at 60.2 cpht) 
The sale of the Namaqualand Mines to the Trans Hex Group is in progress and expected to conclude in 2014.
(5) 
Voorspoed: The change is due to production. The Mining License was approved on 10 October 2006 and construction commenced in the same month after the 
mine being dormant for nine decades. Mining is entirely based on Inferred Resources due to the uncertainty associated with current geoscientific knowledge. 
Some studies to improve resource confidence were completed late in 2013.
(6) 
Kimberley Mines: Kimberley Mines Central Treatment Plant (CTP) was initially established to treat ore from both tailings resources and underground mines. 
Subsequent to the conclusion of the sale of the underground operations to Petra Diamonds in May 2010, only tailings resources are being treated. 
The Stockpile estimates at a 1.15mm BCO of 37 k¢ (299 kt at 12.4 cpht) Inferred Resource are excluded from the table.
DIAMONDS  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
246 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013
 
DEBSWANA DIAMOND COMPANY
The Diamond Reserve and Diamond Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with The South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, 
Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves (The SAMREC Code, 2007 Edition as amended July 2009). The figures reported represent 100% of the Diamond 
Reserves and Diamond Resources. Diamond Resources are quoted as inclusive of those used to calculate Diamond Reserves and must not be added to the 
Diamond Reserves. Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies. In Botswana the mines are owned in equal share by De Beers Société 
Anonyme and the Government of the Republic of Botswana through the Debswana Diamond Company joint venture.
Debswana – Operations
 
LOM
BCO 
(mm)
Treated Tonnes Recovered Grade Saleable Carats
Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 DIAMOND RESERVES Attributable %
Damtshaa (OP)
(1)
42.5 19 1.65 Mt Mt cpht cpht M¢ M¢
Kimberlite Proved – – – – – –
Probable 25.0 25.0 16.6 16.6 4.1 4.1
Total 25.0 25.0 16.6 16.6 4.1 4.1
Jwaneng (OP)
(2)
42.5 18 1.47 cpht cpht
Kimberlite Proved – – – – – –
Probable 61.8 70.1 125.2 126.0 77.3 88.3
Total 61.8 70.1 125.2 126.0 77.3 88.3
Letlhakane (OP)
(3)
42.5 4 1.65 cpht cpht
Kimberlite Proved – – – – – –
Probable 3.2 4.7 19.9 16.9 0.6 0.8
Total 3.2 4.7 19.9 16.9 0.6 0.8
Orapa (OP)
(4)
42.5 16 1.65 cpht cpht
Kimberlite Proved – – – – – –
Probable 140.3 146.1 63.8 58.7 89.6 85.7
Total 140.3 146.1 63.8 58.7 89.6 85.7
Debswana Diamond Company 42.5 multiple cpht cpht
TOT AL Kimberlite Proved – – – – – –
Probable 230.3 245.8 74.6 72.8 171.7 179.0
Total 230.3 245.8 74.6 72.8 171.7 179.0
Debswana – Operations
BCO 
(mm)
Tonnes Grade Carats
DIAMOND RESOURCES Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Damtshaa (OP)
(1)
42.5 1.65 Mt Mt cpht cpht M¢ M¢
Kimberlite Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 29.3 29.3 21.5 21.5 6.3 6.3
Measured and Indicated 29.3 29.3 21.5 21.5 6.3 6.3
Inferred 20.2 20.5 24.3 23.6 4.9 4.8
Jwaneng (OP)
(2)
42.5 1.47 cpht cpht
Kimberlite Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 61.8 70.1 119.5 120.4 73.8 84.3
Measured and Indicated 61.8 70.1 119.5 120.4 73.8 84.3
Inferred 258.6 259.9 104.1 103.5 269.3 269.1
Letlhakane (OP)
(3)
42.5 1.65 cpht cpht
Kimberlite Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 15.3 27.4 28.4 28.6 4.3 7.8
Measured and Indicated 15.3 27.4 28.4 28.6 4.3 7.8
Inferred 3.2 8.3 17.0 27.2 0.6 2.2
Orapa (OP)
(4)
42.5 1.65 cpht cpht
Kimberlite Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 155.5 167.3 70.9 71.2 110.3 119.1
Measured and Indicated 155.5 167.3 70.9 71.2 110.3 119.1
Inferred 349.7 349.8 72.5 72.5 253.4 253.5
Debswana Diamond Company 42.5 multiple cpht cpht
TOT AL Kimberlite Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 261.9 294.1 74.4 74.0 194.8 217.6
Measured and Indicated 261.9 294.1 74.4 74.0 194.8 217.6
Inferred 631.7 638.5 83.6 83.0 528.2 529.7
DIAMOND RESOURCES INCLUDE DIAMOND RESERVES. 
 
Mining method: OP = Open Pit, UG = Underground. 
LOM = Life of Mine (years) is based on scheduled Probable Reserves including Indicated and some Inferred Resources considered for Life of Mine planning. 
Reported Diamond Reserves/Resources are based on a Bottom Cut Off (BCO) which refers to the bottom screen size aperture and varies between 1.00mm and 3.00mm (nominal square mesh).  
Unless stated otherwise tonnage is quoted as dry metric tonnes. Estimates of Diamond Reserve tonnes reflect the tonnage to be treated. 
Recovered Grade is quoted as carats per hundred metric tonnes (cpht).
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated  
or Measured Resource after continued exploration.
(1) 
Damtshaa: The increase in the Life of Mine is due to the inclusion of additional Inferred Resources in the mine plan. Higher grade Inferred Resources from the 
BK/12 Kimberlite are mined for the first five years before including Probable Reserves from BK/9. The BK/9 and BK/12 Stockpile Inferred Resource estimates  
at a 1.65mm BCO of 0.3 M¢ (1.9 Mt at13.4 cpht) are excluded from the table.
(2) 
Jwaneng: The decrease is primarily due to production. The 2013 Life of Mine Plan includes the Cut 8 estimates of 96 Mt of ore to be treated containing an 
estimated 1 13 M¢ (North, Centre and South pipes excluding the 4th pipe which is mined as part of waste stripping and stockpiled). Scheduled Inferred Resources 
(below 401m) included in the Cut 8 estimates constitute 77% (86.7 M¢) of the estimated carats. The Jwaneng Resource Extension Project (JREP) is expected to 
increase the resource confidence at depth and upgrade a significant portion of Inferred Resources to Indicated. The DK/2 Stockpile estimates at a 1.47mm BCO, 
consisting of 1.1 M¢ (0.8 Mt at 138.6 cpht) Indicated Resources and 4.4 M¢ (10.0 Mt at 43.7 cpht) Inferred Resources are excluded from the table.
(3) 
Letlhakane: The decrease in the Kimberlite resources is due to depletion. Higher anticipated plant recoveries result in the slightly higher TMR reserve grade than 
resource grade. DK/1 and DK/2 Stockpile estimates at a 1.65mm BCO of 0.6 M¢ (3.5 Mt at 16.9 cpht) Inferred Resource are excluded from the table.
(4) 
Orapa: The decrease in treated tonnes is due to production. The decrease in LOM tonnes reflects the temporary exclusion of Cut 3 pending further studies 
incorporating additional information from the Orapa Resource Extension Program (OREP) which is expected to increase resource confidence at depth resulting 
in an upgrade of a large portion of Inferred Resources to Indicated. The increase in saleable carats is due to reduced plant losses (improved plant factors) and 
mine design changes. The AK/1 Stockpile estimates at a1.65mm BCO of 6.2 M¢ (13.6 Mt at 45.7 cpht) Inferred Resource are excluded from the table.
Audits related to the generation of the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were carried out by independent consultants during 2013 at the following operations: Orapa.
DIAMONDS  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013 247
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
Debswana – Operations
BCO 
(mm)
Tonnes Grade Carats
DIAMOND RESOURCES Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Jwaneng 42.5 1.47 Mt Mt cpht cpht M¢ M¢
T ailings Mineral Resource Measured – – – – – –
Indicated – – – – – –
Measured and Indicated – – – – – –
Inferred 37.0 – 45.9 – 17.0 –
Orapa 42.5 1.65 cpht cpht
T ailings Mineral Resource Measured – – – – – –
Indicated – – – – – –
Measured and Indicated – – – – – –
Inferred 147.8 – 58.2 – 86.1 –
Debswana Diamond Company 42.5 multiple cpht cpht
TOT AL T ailings Mineral Resource Measured – – – – – –
Indicated – – – – – –
Measured and Indicated – – – – – –
Inferred 184.9 – 55.8 – 103.1 –
Debswana – Projects
 
LOM
BCO 
(mm)
Treated Tonnes Recovered Grade Saleable Carats
Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 DIAMOND RESERVES Attributable %
Letlhakane
(3)
42.5 27 1.15 Mt Mt cpht cpht M¢ M¢
T ailings Mineral Resources Proved – – – – – –
Probable 34.9 – 25.4 – 8.9 –
Total 34.9 – 25.4 – 8.9 –
Debswana – Projects
BCO 
(mm)
Tonnes Grade Carats
DIAMOND RESOURCES Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Letlhakane
(3)
42.5 1.15 Mt Mt cpht cpht M¢ M¢
T ailings Mineral Resources Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 34.9 – 24.8 – 8.6 –
Measured and Indicated 34.9 – 24.8 – 8.6 –
Inferred 49.6 – 27.1 – 13.4 –
DIAMOND RESOURCES INCLUDE DIAMOND RESERVES. 
 
LOM = Life of Mine (years) is based on scheduled Probable Reserves including Indicated and some Inferred Resources considered for Life of Mine planning. 
Reported Diamond Reserves/Resources are based on a Bottom Cut Off (BCO) which refers to the bottom screen size aperture and varies between 1.00mm and 3.00mm (nominal square mesh).  
Unless stated otherwise tonnage is quoted as dry metric tonnes. Estimates of Diamond Reserve tonnes reflect the tonnage to be treated. 
Recovered Grade is quoted as carats per hundred metric tonnes (cpht). 
 
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated  
or Measured Resource after continued exploration. 
DIAMONDS  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
248 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013
 
DIAMONDS  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
NAMDEB HOLDINGS
The Diamond Reserve and Diamond Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with The South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, 
Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves (The SAMREC Code, 2007 Edition as amended July 2009). The figures reported represent 100% of the Diamond 
Reserves and Diamond Resources. Diamond Resources are quoted as inclusive of those used to calculate Diamond Reserves and must not be added to the 
Diamond Reserves. Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies. As of 1 October 2011 Namdeb Holdings (Pty) Ltd (NDBH), a 50/50 joint 
venture between De Beers Société Anonyme and the Government of the Republic of Namibia, holds the licences for both the land and sea operations. In 
addition, NDBH holds 100% ownership of the operating companies, Namdeb Diamond Corporation (Pty) Ltd and De Beers Marine Namibia (Pty) Ltd.
Treated Tonnes Recovered Grade Saleable Carats
Namdeb Holdings – T errestrial Operations
BCO 
(mm) DIAMOND RESERVES Attributable % LOM Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Elizabeth Bay (OC)
(1)
42.5 5 1.40 kt kt cpht cpht k¢ k¢
Aeolian and Marine Proved – – – – – –
Probable 1,076 1,808 13.01 12.78 140 231
Total 1,076 1,808 13.01 12.78 140 231
Mining Area 1 (OC)
(2)
42.5 10 2.00 cpht cpht
Beaches Proved – – – – – –
Probable 3,124 1,023 0.51 7.26 16 74
Total 3,124 1,023 0.51 7.26 16 74
Orange River (OC)
(3)
42.5 10 3.00 cpht cpht
Fluvial Placers Proved – – – – – –
Probable 36,711 34,994 0.95 1.03 349 359
Total 36,711 34,994 0.95 1.03 349 359
Namdeb Holdings 42.5 multiple cpht cpht
TOT AL T errestrial Proved – – – – – –
Probable 40,911 37,825 1.23 1.76 505 664
Total 40,911 37,825 1.23 1.76 505 664
Namdeb Holdings – Offshore Operations 
BCO 
(mm)
Area Recovered Grade Saleable Carats
DIAMOND RESERVES Attributable % LOM Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Atlantic 1 (MM)
(4)
42.5 15 1.47 k m² k m² cpm² cpm² k¢ k¢
Marine Placer Proved – – – – – –
Probable 69,642 57,033 0.08 0.09 5,504 4,935
Total 69,642 57,033 0.08 0.09 5,504 4,935
Namdeb Holdings – Terrestrial Operations 
BCO 
(mm)
Tonnes Grade Carats
DIAMOND RESOURCES Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Bogenfels (OC)
(5)
42.5 multiple
( 2)
 kt kt cpht cpht k¢ k¢
Pocket Beach and Deflation Measured – – – – – –
Indicated – – – – – –
Measured and Indicated – – – – – –
Inferred 10,955 10,955 6.75 6.75 740 740
Douglas Bay (OC) 42.5 1.40 cpht cpht
Aeolian and Deflation Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 2,269 1,502 7.05 7.39 160 111
Measured and Indicated 2,269 1,502 7.05 7.39 160 111
Inferred 127 1,959 0.79 2.40 1 47
Elizabeth Bay (OC) 42.5 1.40 cpht cpht
Aeolian, Marine and Deflation Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 2,491 4,718 11.20 11.62 279 548
Measured and Indicated 2,491 4,718 11.20 11.62 279 548
Inferred 29,032 54,034 7.88 4.12 2,289 2,224
Mining Area 1 (OC)
(2)
42.5 2.00 cpht cpht
Beaches Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 21,270 17,597 0.81 1.01 172 178
Measured and Indicated 21,270 17,597 0.81 1.01 172 178
Inferred 283,369 281,564 1.18 1.09 3,344 3,082
Orange River (OC) 42.5 3.00 cpht cpht
Fluvial Placers Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 93,347 109,725 0.54 0.50 503 544
Measured and Indicated 93,347 109,725 0.54 0.50 503 544
Inferred 45,658 44,997 0.35 0.35 162 157
Namdeb Holdings 42.5 multiple cpht cpht
TOT AL T errestrial Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 119,377 133,542 0.93 1.03 1,114 1,381
Measured and Indicated 119,377 133,542 0.93 1.03 1,114 1,381
Inferred 369,141 393,509 1.77 1.59 6,536 6,250
DIAMOND RESOURCES INCLUDE DIAMOND RESERVES. ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES
 Anglo American plc  Annual Report 2013 249
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources
DIAMONDS  
estimates as at 31 December 201 3
Namdeb Holdings – Offshore Operations 
BCO 
(mm)
Area Grade Carats
DIAMOND RESOURCES Attributable % Classification 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Atlantic 1 (MM)
(4)
42.5 1.47  k m² k m² cpm² cpm² k¢ k¢
Marine Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 126,801 114,190 0.09 0.09 11,349 10,773
Measured and Indicated 126,801 114,190 0.09 0.09 11,349 10,773
Inferred 1,042,516 1,028,119 0.09 0.09 90,044 89,637
Midwater (MM)
(6)
42.5 2.00 cpm² cpm²
Aeolian, Fluvial and Marine Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 2,533 1,339 0.19 0.25 492 330
Measured and Indicated 2,533 1,339 0.19 0.25 492 330
Inferred 12,720 11,336 0.07 0.09 930 1,031
Namdeb Holdings 42.5 multiple cpm² cpm²
TOT AL Offshore Measured – – – – – –
Indicated 129,334 115,529 0.09 0.10 11,841 11,103
Measured and Indicated 129,334 115,529 0.09 0.10 11,841 11,103
Inferred 1,055,236 1,039,455 0.09 0.09 90,974 90,668
DIAMOND RESOURCES INCLUDE DIAMOND RESERVES. 
 
Mining method: OC = Open Cast, MM = Marine Mining.  
LOM = Life of Mine (years) is based on scheduled Probable Reserves including Indicated and some Inferred Resources considered for Life of Mine planning. 
Reported Diamond Reserves/Resources are based on a Bottom Cut Off (BCO) which refers to the bottom screen size aperture and varies between 1.00mm and 3.00mm (nominal square mesh). 
Unless stated otherwise tonnage is quoted as dry metric tonnes. Estimates of Diamond Reserve tonnes reflect the tonnage to be treated. 
Recovered Grade is quoted as carats per hundred metric tonnes (cpht) or as carats per square meter (cpm²). k m² = thousand square metres. 
 
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated  
or Measured Resource after continued exploration. 
(1) 
Elizabeth Bay: The decrease is primarily due to production.
(2) 
Mining Area 1: The increase in treated tonnes is due to inclusion of lower grade material included in the 2013 Life of Mine Plan as a result of geological contact 
changes and a resource model update. The decrease in grade (and carats) is due to depletion of high grade material, the inclusion of the lower grade material and 
the exclusion of high grade material currently situated under mine infrastructure. 
Incremental Inferred Resource development is dependent on beach accretion for drilling and sampling. Beach accretion is a process through which an existing 
beach is built seaward to extend into areas previously submerged by sea water. The accretion is accomplished by sand build-up derived from current mining and 
dredging activities. The Overburden Stockpile estimates at a 2.00mm BCO of 33 k¢ (9,227 kt at 0.36 cpht) Inferred Resource, the DMS and Recovery Tailings 
Resource estimates at a 2.00mm BCO of 751 k¢ (64,427 kt at 1.17 cpht) Inferred Resource are excluded from the table.
(3) 
Orange River: The mining transition from Daberas to Sendelingsdrif will be completed within the next three years.
(4) 
Atlantic 1: The increase in reserve carats is due to new information allowing conversion of additional resources to reserves and a faster mining rate which allows 
a lowering of the cut-off grade. Due to the high costs associated with resource development, Indicated Resources are developed on an annual basis, resulting in a 
24 month rolling reserve.
(5) 
Bogenfels: Bottom screen cut off details for Inferred Resource estimates are as follows: 
1.40 mm BCO: 510 k¢ (7,910 kt at 6.47 cpht); 
2.00 mm BCO: 230 k¢ (3,040 kt at 7.50 cpht).
(6) 
Midwater: That part of the offshore component of the Diamond Area No. 1 (DA1) mining license covered by water depths of 30m and more below mean 
sea-level.
Operations
LOM Plan
(years)
LOM Plan
Final Year
Mining Licence
Last Year
% Inferred carats 
in LOM Plan
DBCi – Snap Lake 15 2028 2021 / 2023 66%
DBCi – Victor 5 2018 2024 31%
DBCM – Venetia 31 2044 2038 22%
DBCM – Voorspoed 8 2021 2023 100%
DBCM – Kimberly Mines 5 2018 2040 100%
Debswana – Damtshaa 19 2032 2029 43%
Debswana – Jwaneng 18 2031 2029 64%
Debswana – Letlhakane (Kimberlite) 4 2017 2029 59%
Debswana – Orapa 16 2029 2029 49%
Namdeb Terrestrial – Elizabeth Bay 5 2018 2020 50%*
Namdeb Terrestrial – Mining Area 1 10 2023 2020 50%*
Namdeb Terrestrial – Orange River 10 2023 2020 50%*
Namdeb Offshore – Atlantic 1 15 2028 2020 87%**
* Elizabeth Bay, Mining Area 1 and Orange River are integrated into a single mine plan.
** Assumes that pre-production sampling will upgrade Inferred Resources to Indicated Resources prior to mining. 250 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
OTHER INFORMATION 
Attributable ROCE Definitions:
 • Return on capital employed is a ratio that measures the efficiency and profitability of a company’s capital investments. It displays how effectively assets are 
generating profit for the size of invested capital.
 • ROCE is calculated as underlying operating profit divided by capital employed.
 • Adjusted ROCE calculation is underlying operating profit divided by adjusted capital employed. Adjusted capital employed is net assets excluding net debt 
and financial asset investments, adjusted for remeasurements of a previously held equity interest as a result of business combinations and impairments 
incurred in the current year and reported since 10 December 2013.
 • Attributable ROCE is the return on the adjusted capital employed attributable to equity shareholders of Anglo American, and therefore excludes the portion 
of underlying operating profit and capital employed attributable to non-controlling interests in operations where Anglo American has control but does not 
hold 100% of the equity. Joint ventures, joint operations and associates are included in their proportionate interest and in line with appropriate accounting 
treatment.
Adjustments
 • Structural adjustments for the De Beers acquisition assuming ownership of 85% of De Beers for 1 January 2012 and disposals from Anglo American Sur 
assuming ownership of 50.1% from the start of 2012 will be included;
 • The De Beers fair value uplift which resulted from the revaluing upward of Anglo American plc’s existing 45% share of De Beers will be removed from 
opening 2012 capital employed onwards;
 • Impairments announced after 10 December 2013 are not removed from total capital employed; 
 • The impairments and disposals which will be removed from opening capital employed from 2012 and onwards, on a post-tax basis, are:
– Pebble loss on exit
– Michiquillay impairment
– Barro Alto furnace write-down consequent on the rebuild of both furnaces (not the impairment)
– Khomanani, Khuseleka 2 and Union Mine North declines, plus 2012 Platinum project asset scrappings
– Isibonelo and Kleinkopje impairments.
In 2012, Anglo American took an impairment on Minas-Rio and asset scrappings in Platinum. These have been removed from the 2012 opening capital 
employed balance, on a post-tax basis, for consistency. 
Attributable ROCE is based on realised prices and foreign exchange rates, and includes the above adjustments to capital employed.
The 2013 attributable operating profit of $4,369 million is the underlying operating profit attributable to equity shareholders of Anglo American plc.
Reconciliation of total capital employed to Average Attributable Capital Employed
US$ billion
31 December 
2013
 31 December 
2012
 1 January 
2012
Net assets 37 44 43
Less: financial asset investments (2) (2) (3)
Add: net debt 11 9 1
Less: De Beers fair value adjustment on 45% pre-existing stake
(1)
(1) (2) –
Total capital employed 45 48 41
Less: 
Impairments taken in 2012
(2)
– – (5)
Impairments taken in 2013 that had been announced before 10 December 2013
(3)
– (1) (1)
Add: 
2013 impairment where no benefit taken for attributable ROCE purposes
(4)
1 – –
Structural assumptions – De Beers increase holding to a subsidiary
(5)
– – 8
Total capital employed 46 46 43
Less: non-controlling interest capital employed (7) (7) (4)
Structural assumptions – Remove non-controlling interest relating to De Beers consolidation
(5)
– – (1)
Structural assumptions – Remove non-controlling interest relating to Anglo American Sur disposal
(6)
– – (1)
Closing attributable non-controlling interest adjustment (7) (7) (6)
Closing attributable capital employed 39 40 37
Average attributable capital employed 39 38 –
(1) 
Removal of the accounting fair value uplift adjustment on the Group’s existing 45% holding following acquisition of control on 16 August 2012.
(2) 
2012 impairments (post-tax): Minas-Rio ($4.0 billion) and Platinum operations impairment ($0.6 billion).
(3) 
2013 impairments and disposals (post-tax) reducing capital employed: Barro Alto furnace ($0.2 billion), Platinum portfolio review ($0.3 billion), Michiquillay ($0.3 billion), Isibonelo and 
Kleinkopje ($0.2 billion), disposal of Amapá ($0.2 billion) and Pebble ($0.3 billion).
(4) 
2013 impairments (post-tax) not removed from capital employed: Barro Alto impairment ($0.5 billion) and Foxleigh ($0.2 billion).
(5) 
De Beers has been consolidated into the Group’s results since its acquisition on 16 August 2012. An adjustment has been made to the 2012 capital employed total to increase to 100% of 
De Beers for the full year (net of fair value uplift) and the non-controlling interest of 15% stripped out within NCI capital employed, so that 2012 and 2013 ROCE figures are comparable.
(6) 
The disposal of 25.4% of Anglo American Sur in 2012. An adjustment has been made to the 2012 non-controlling interest capital employed to reduce the holding in Anglo American Sur to 50.1% 
for the full year, so that 2012 and 2013 ROCE figures are comparable.
ATTRIBUTABLE RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROCE) DEFINITION Other information
 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 251
OTHER INFORMATION
The figures below include the entire output of consolidated entities and the Group’s attributable share of joint arrangements and associates where applicable, 
except for Collahuasi in the Copper segment and De Beers which are quoted on a 100% basis.
2013 2012
Iron Ore and Manganese segment (tonnes)
Kumba Iron Ore
Lump 25,496,000 26,580,500
Fines 16,877,100 16,484,600
Total Kumba production 42,373,100 43,065,100
Sishen 30,938,500 33,696,700
Kolomela 10,808,700 8,544,900
Thabazimbi 625,900 823,500
Total Kumba production 42,373,100 43,065,100
Kumba sales volume
RSA export iron ore 39,076,000 39,657,000
RSA domestic iron ore 4,631,400 4,683,000
Samancor
Manganese ore
(1)
3,301,700 3,347,800
Manganese alloys
(1)(2)
251,100 198,400
Samancor sales volume
Manganese ore 3,262,100 3,212,400
Manganese alloys 248,700 236,000
Coal (tonnes)
Metallurgical Coal segment
Australia
Metallurgical – Export Coking 11,711,600 10,484,700
Metallurgical – Export PCI 5,260,200 5,802,700
Thermal – Export 6,264,000 6,045,900
Thermal – Domestic 6,239,400 6,924,600
Total Australian Metallurgical Coal segment coal production 29,475,200 29,257,900
Canada
Metallurgical – Export Coking 1,663,800 1,376,900
Metallurgical – Export PCI 20,000 –
Total Metallurgical Coal segment coal production 31,159,000 30,634,800
Australia
Callide 6,317,800 7,464,000
Capcoal 6,061,400 6,022,400
Dawson 3,985,700 4,593,500
Drayton 3,710,700 3,663,300
Foxleigh 1,966,600 1,896,000
Jellinbah 2,516,500 2,073,200
Moranbah North 4,916,500 3,545,500
Total Australian Metallurgical Coal segment coal production 29,475,200 29,257,900
Canada
Peace River Coal 1,683,800 1,376,900
Total Metallurgical Coal segment coal production 31,159,000 30,634,800
Weighted average achieved FOB prices
Metallurgical – Export
(3)
 US$/tonne 140 178
Thermal – Export US$/tonne 84 96
Thermal – Domestic US$/tonne 39 37
Sales volumes
Metallurgical – Export
(4)
19,044,500 17,413,000
Thermal – Export 6,371,600 6,042,600
Thermal – Domestic 6,125,400 6,920,900
Thermal Coal segment
South Africa
Thermal – Export 17,031,300 17,132,100
Thermal – Domestic (Eskom) 33,567,400 33,706,400
Thermal – Domestic (Other) 5,992,000 6,219,100
Metallurgical – Domestic – 74,100
Total South African Thermal Coal production 56,590,700 57,131,700
Colombia
Thermal – Export 11,001,500 11,548,800
Total Thermal Coal segment coal production 67,592,200 68,680,500
(1) 
Saleable production.
(2) 
Production includes medium carbon ferro-manganese.
(3) 
Within export coking and export PCI coals there are different grades of coal with different weighted average prices compared to benchmark.
(4) 
Includes both hard coking coal and PCI sales volumes.
PRODUCTION STATISTICS 252 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
OTHER INFORMATION PRODUCTION STATISTICS
2013 2012
Coal (tonnes) (continued)
Thermal Coal segment (continued)
South Africa
Goedehoop 4,680,800 4,859,900
Greenside 3,269,500 2,883,200
Isibonelo 5,066,800 5,399,200
Kleinkopje 3,997,200 3,765,500
Kriel 8,102,700 8,096,900
Landau 4,084,000 4,272,300
Mafube 1,825,400 1,804,100
New Denmark 3,586,900 3,401,200
New Vaal 17,105,700 17,623,300
Zibulo 4,871,700 5,026,100
Total South African Thermal Coal production 56,590,700 57,131,700
Colombia
Carbones del Cerrejón 11,001,500 11,548,800
Total Thermal Coal segment coal production 67,592,200 68,680,500
Weighted average achieved FOB prices
South Africa
Thermal – Export US$/tonne 77 92
Thermal – Domestic US$/tonne 19 21
Colombia
Thermal – Export US$/tonne 73 89
Sales volumes
South Africa
Thermal – Export 17,501,800 17,150,600
Thermal – Domestic 39,044,100 40,018,000
Colombia
Thermal – Export 11,152,500 10,925,600
Total Thermal Coal sales 67,698,400 68,094,200
Copper segment
(1)
Collahuasi
100% basis (Anglo American share 44%)
Ore mined tonnes 80,955,500 74,647,600
Ore processed Oxide tonnes 7,028,900 8,081,400
Sulphide tonnes 47,559,000 43,618,600
Ore grade processed Oxide % ASCu
(2)
0.81 0.88
Sulphide % TCu
(3)
1.07 0.76
Production Copper cathode tonnes 28,400 36,800
Copper in concentrate tonnes 416,100 245,300
Total copper production for Collahuasi tonnes 444,500 282,100
Anglo American’s share of copper production for Collahuasi
(4)
tonnes 195,600 124,100
Anglo American Sur
Los Bronces mine
(5)
Ore mined tonnes 56,938,200 49,766,500
Marginal ore mined tonnes 17,221,300 17,854,200
Ore processed Sulphide tonnes 51,960,500 45,854,800
Ore grade processed Sulphide % TCu 0.83 0.84
Production Copper cathode tonnes 37,700 40,800
Copper in sulphate tonnes 600 2,500
Copper in concentrate tonnes 378,000 322,000
Production total tonnes 416,300 365,300
El Soldado mine
(5)
Ore mined tonnes 8,576,700 8,544,500
Ore processed Sulphide tonnes 7,312,500 7,782,300
Ore grade processed Sulphide % TCu 0.88 0.83
Production Copper cathode tonnes 1,100 2,000
Copper in concentrate tonnes 50,400 51,800
Production total tonnes 51,500 53,800
Chagres smelter
(5)
Ore smelted tonnes 149,800 142,900
Production tonnes 145,200 138,700
Total copper production for Anglo American Sur tonnes 467,800 419,100
(1)  
Excludes Anglo American Platinum’s copper production.
(2) 
ASCu = acid soluble copper.
(3) 
TCu = total copper.
(4)  
Anglo American’s share of Collahuasi production is 44%.
(5) 
Anglo American previously held 74.5% of Anglo American Sur; as from 24 August 2012, it held 50.1%. Production is stated at 100% as Anglo American continues to consolidate Anglo American Sur. Other information
 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 253
OTHER INFORMATION PRODUCTION STATISTICS
2013 2012
Copper segment (continued)
Anglo American Norte
Mantos Blancos mine
Ore processed Sulphide tonnes 4,329,600 4,393,200
Ore grade processed Sulphide % ICu
(1)
0.65 0.64
Production Copper cathode tonnes 29,500 29,200
Copper in concentrate tonnes 25,100 25,000
Production total tonnes 54,600 54,200
Mantoverde mine
Ore processed Oxide tonnes 10,385,200 10,460,400
Marginal ore tonnes 8,280,400 8,671,700
Ore grade processed Oxide % ASCu
(2)
 0.57 0.63
Marginal ore % ASCu
(2)
0.25 0.25
Production Copper cathode tonnes 56,800 62,300
Total copper production for Anglo American Norte tonnes 111,400 116,500
Total Copper segment copper production tonnes 1,023,700 817,700
Total attributable copper production
(3)
tonnes 774,800 659,700
Attributable sales volumes tonnes 768,200 643,600
Nickel segment
Barro Alto
Ore mined tonnes 1,999,000 1,844,400
Ore processed tonnes 1,616,300 1,422,100
Ore grade processed % Ni 1.82 1.94
Production tonnes 25,100 21,600
Codemin
Ore mined tonnes 6,800 –
Ore processed tonnes 602,400 581,100
Ore grade processed % Ni 1.71 1.81
Production tonnes 9,300 9,600
Loma de Níquel
Ore mined tonnes – 432,900
Ore processed tonnes – 767,400
Ore grade processed % Ni – 1.40
Production tonnes – 8,100
Total Nickel segment nickel production
(4)
tonnes 34,400 39,300
Sales volumes tonnes 33,800 40,000 
Niobium and Phosphates segment
Niobium
Ore mined tonnes 1,228,809 933,203
Ore processed tonnes 963,118 973,484
Ore grade processed % Nb 1.16 1.21
Production tonnes 4,500 4,400
Phosphates
Concentrate tonnes 1,406,300 1,357,100
Phosphoric acid tonnes 317,100 299,800
Fertiliser
(5)
tonnes 1,199,000 1,127,600
Dicalcium phosphate (DCP) tonnes 159,600 150,000
Platinum segment
Refined production
Platinum troy ounces 2,379,500 2,378,600
Palladium troy ounces 1,380,800 1,395,900
Rhodium troy ounces 294,700 310,700
Copper refined
(6)
tonnes 8,300 11,400
Copper matte
(6)
tonnes 5,800 –
Nickel refined
(6)
tonnes 16,800 17,700
Nickel matte
(6)
tonnes 5,800 –
Gold troy ounces 100,000 105,200
Equivalent refined
Platinum troy ounces 2,320,400 2,219,100
4E Built-up head grade
(7)
gram/tonne milled 3.26 3.20
Diamonds segment (De Beers) 
Carats recovered 100% basis
Debswana 22,707,000 20,216,000
Namdeb Holdings 1,762,000 1,667,000
De Beers Consolidated Mines 4,724,000 4,432,000
De Beers Canada 1,966,000 1,560,000
Total carats recovered 31,159,000 27,875,000
(1) 
ICu = insoluble copper (total copper less acid soluble copper).
(2) 
ASCu = acid soluble copper.
(3) 
Difference between total copper production and attributable copper production arises from Anglo American’s 44% interest in Collahuasi.
(4) 
Excludes Anglo American Platinum’s nickel production.
(5)  
2012 fertiliser production restated to reflect the change in production quantification methodology in the acidulation plant at Cubatão.
(6) 
Nickel and copper refined through third parties is now shown as production of nickel matte and copper matte. Nickel and copper matte, per the table, reflect matte sold to a third party in Q4 2013 
from 2012 and 2013 production stockpiles.
(7)  
4E: the grade measured as the combined content of the four most valuable precious metals: platinum, palladium, rhodium and gold. OTHER INFORMATION 
254 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Quarter ended % Change (Quarter ended)
31 December 
2013
30 September 
2013
30 June 
2013
31 March 
2013
31 December 
2012
31 December 2013 v 
30 September 2013
31 December 2013 v 
31 December 2012
Iron Ore and Manganese segment 
(tonnes)
Iron ore 11,285,700 9,474,600 11,277,800 10,335,000 9,012,500 19% 25%
Manganese ore
(1)
846,000 788,100 864,200 803,400 846,800 7% –
Manganese alloys
(1)(2)
66,200 54,800 72,800 57,300 61,200 21% 8%
Metallurgical Coal segment (tonnes)
Metallurgical – Export coking coal 3,473,200 3,465,500 3,111,900 3,324,800 3,387,000 – 3%
Metallurgical – Export PCI 1,260,200 1,446,400 1,283,800 1,289,800 1,193,000 (13)% 6%
Thermal – Export 1,584,700 1,672,400 1,513,100 1,493,800 1,689,400 (5)% (6)%
Thermal – Domestic 1,688,800 1,752,300 1,725,300 1,073,000 2,025,300 (4)% (17)%
Thermal Coal segment (tonnes)
Thermal – Export (RSA) 4,602,000 4,504,900 4,015,200 3,909,200 4,659,100 2% (1)%
Thermal – Domestic Eskom 7,617,800 9,053,200 8,766,600 8,129,800 8,560,600 (16)% (11)%
Thermal – Domestic other 1,234,100 1,665,300 1,573,800 1,518,800 1,594,500 (26)% (23)%
Thermal – Export (Colombia) 3,290,300 3,184,900 3,014,300 1,512,000 2,661,700 3% 24%
Copper segment (tonnes)
(3)(4)
214,400 207,100 182,900 170,400 172,900 4% 24%
Nickel segment (tonnes)
(5)
10,200 9,500 8,500 6,200 7,400 7% 38%
Niobium and Phosphates segment 
(tonnes)
Niobium 1,200 1,100 1,100 1,100 1,000 9% 20%
Phosphates (fertiliser)
(6)
299,000 326,300 300,500 273,200 294,200 (8)% 2%
Platinum segment
Platinum (troy ounces) 692,100 666,400 581,800 439,200 703,800 4% (2)%
Palladium (troy ounces) 428,200 369,300 319,700 263,600 413,300 16% 4%
Rhodium (troy ounces) 83,500 84,900 69,800 56,500 91,200 (2)% (8)%
Copper refined (tonnes) 1,800 2,600 1,900 2,000 2,500 (31)% (28)%
Copper matte (tonnes) 1,400 300 4,100 – – 367% –
Nickel refined (tonnes) 5,200 4,900 3,400 3,300 3,900 6% 33%
Nickel matte (tonnes) 100 300 5,400 – – (67)% –
Gold (troy ounces) 26,700 33,700 16,300 23,300 18,600 (21)% 44%
Equivalent refined platinum (troy ounces) 520,300 622,600 594,500 583,000 416,000 (16)% 25%
Diamonds segment (De Beers) 
(diamonds recovered – carats)
100% basis
Diamonds 9,132,000 7,732,000 7,931,000 6,364,000 8,051,000 18% 13%
(1) 
Saleable production. 
(2) 
Production includes medium carbon ferro-manganese.
(3) 
Excludes Platinum copper production.
(4) 
Copper segment attributable production.
(5) 
Excludes Platinum nickel production.
(6) 
2012 fertiliser production restated to reflect the change in production quantification methodology in the acidulation plant at Cubatão.
QUARTERLY PRODUCTION STATISTICS Other information
OTHER INFORMATION 
 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 255
NON-FINANCIAL DATA
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Safety
(1)
Work-related fatalities 14 13 17 15 20
Fatal-injury frequency rate (FIFR)
(2)
0.008 0.007 0.009 0.008 0.010
Total recordable case frequency rate (TRCFR)
(3)
1.08 1.29 2.01 1.44 1.81
Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)
(4)
0.49 0.58 0.64 0.64 0.76
Lost time injury severity rate (LTISR)
(5)
177 214 220 229 226
Occupational health
(1)
New cases of occupational disease (NCOD)
(6)
209 174 197 268 489
Occupational disease incidence rate (per 200,000 hours) (ODIR) 0.217 0.171 0.205 0.284 0.483
Environment
(1)
Total CO
2
 emissions (Mt CO
2
e)
(7)
17 18 19 20 19
Total energy consumed (million GJ)
(8)
106 113 102 100 106
Total water consumed (million m
3
)
(9)
201 156 124 125 137
Human Resources
(1)(10)
Women in management (%)
(11)
23 23 22 21 19
Historically Disadvantaged South Africans in management (%)
(12)
64 62 51 46 46
Resignations (%)
(13)
2.0 2.4 2.7 2.4 2.4
Redundancies (%)
(14)
4.1 0.6 1.4 2.1 3.8
Dismissals (%)
(15)
1.5 1.4 1.1 1.3 2.0
Other reasons for leaving (%)
(16)
2.7 2.4 0.3 2.8 4.9
Social
(1)
CSI spend (total in US$ million)
(17)
127 146 129 112 83
CSI spend (% of pre-tax profit) 2 3 1 1 2
Procurement: BEE spend (rand billion) 37.6 25.8 23.3 20.9 23.5
Businesses supported through enterprise development initiatives 48,111 40,217 38,681 9,392 3,720
Jobs created/maintained through enterprise development programmes 76,543 64,927 47,070 17,200 12,982
(1) 
The data include wholly owned subsidiaries and joint ventures over which Anglo American has management control, and does not include independently managed operations such as 
Collahuasi, Carbones del Cerrejón and Samancor. De Beers data are included from September 2012. Divested businesses are included up until the point of divestment.
(2) 
FIFR is calculated as the number of fatal injuries to employees or contractors per 200,000 hours worked.
(3) 
TRCFR is the number of fatal injuries, lost time injuries and medical treatment cases for employees or contractors per 200,000 hours.
(4) 
LTIFR is the number of lost time injuries (LTIs) per 200,000 hours worked. An LTI is an occupational injury which renders the person unable to perform the routine functions of his/her job,  
on the next calendar day after the day of the injury, whether a scheduled workday or not.
(5) 
LTISR is the number of days lost due to lost-time injuries per 200,000 hours worked.
(6) 
NCOD is the sum of occupational diseases due to asbestosis, NIHL, silicosis, coal-workers’ pneumoconiosis, chronic obstructive airways disease, occupational tuberculosis, occupational 
asthma, HAVs, musculoskeletal disorders, dermatitis, occupational cancers, platinosis, malaria, venous thrombo-embolism and other occupational diseases.
(7) 
CO
2
e emissions data published in 2012 has been revised due to change requests made by Kumba Iron Ore, Copper, and Niobium and Phosphates subsequent to publication of the 
2012 annual report.
(8) 
Total amount of energy consumed is the sum of total energy from electricity purchased, total energy from fossil fuels and total energy from renewable fuels. 2012 data revised due to change 
requests made by Kumba Iron Ore, Copper, and Niobium and Phosphates subsequent to publication of the 2012 annual report.
(9) 
Total amount of water used for primary activities is the total new or make-up water entering the operation and used for the operation’s primary operational activities. 2012 data revised due to 
change requests made by Kumba Iron Ore and Niobium and Phosphates subsequent to publication of the 2012 annual report.
(10) 
Excludes Other Mining and Industrial.
(11) 
Women in management is the percentage of female managers as a percentage of all managers in the workforce excluding contractors.
(12) 
Historically Disadvantaged South Africans in management is the percentage of managers at Anglo American in South Africa who are ‘Historically Disadvantaged South Africans’.
(13) 
The number of people who resigned as a percentage of the total workforce excluding contractors.
(14) 
The number of people who have been retrenched as a percentage of total workforce excluding contractors.
(15) 
The number of people who have been dismissed or have resigned to avoid dismissal, as a percentage of total workforce excluding contractors.
(16) 
The number of people who left for reasons other than those shown above, for example retirement, ill health and death, as a percentage of total workforce excluding contractors.
(17) 
CSI spend is the sum of donations for charitable purposes and community investment (which includes cash and in-kind donations and staff time) as well as investments in commercial initiatives 
with public benefit (such as enterprise development). OTHER INFORMATION 
256 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
THE BUSINESS – AN OVERVIEW
as at 31 December 201 3
Iron Ore and Manganese
Kumba Iron Ore (South Africa) 69.7%
Sishen Iron Ore Company
(1)
73.9%
Minas-Rio (Brazil) 100%
LLX Minas-Rio (Brazil)
(2)
49%
Samancor (South Africa and Australia) 40%
Metallurgical Coal Overall ownership: 100%
100% owned Other interests
Australia Australia
Callide Capcoal 70%
Dartbrook 83.3%
Canada Dawson 51%
Peace River Coal Drayton 88.2%
Foxleigh 70%
Moranbah North 88%
Jellinbah 23.3%
Australia – other
Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal Pty Ltd 25.4%
Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Ltd 17.6%
MBD Energy Ltd 19.2%
Thermal Coal Overall ownership: 100%
100% owned Other interests
South Africa South Africa
Goedehoop Mafube 50%
Greenside Phola plant 50%
Isibonelo Kriel
(3)
73%
Kleinkopje Zibulo
(3)
73%
Landau
New Denmark South Africa – other
New Vaal Richards Bay Coal Terminal 24.2%
Colombia
Carbones del Cerrejón 33.3%
Copper Overall ownership: 100%
100% owned Other interests
Peru Chile
Michiquillay Chagres 50.1%
El Soldado 50.1%
Chile Los Bronces 50.1%
Mantos Blancos
(4)
Collahuasi 44%
Mantoverde
(4)
Peru
Quellaveco 81.9%
Nickel Overall ownership: 100%
100% owned
Brazil
Codemin
Barro Alto
Niobium and Phosphates Overall ownership: 100%
100% owned
Niobium
Anglo American Nióbio Brasil Limitada
Phosphates
Anglo American Fosfatos Brasil Limitada
(1) 
The 73.9% interest in Sishen Iron Ore Company (SIOC) is held indirectly through Kumba Iron Ore, in which the Group has a 69.7% interest. A further 3.1% interest in SIOC is held by the Kumba 
Envision Trust for the benefit of participants in Kumba’s broad based employee share scheme for non-managerial Historically Disadvantaged South African employees. The Trust meets the 
definition of a subsidiary under IFRS, and is therefore consolidated by Kumba Iron Ore. Consequently the effective interest in SIOC included in the Group’s results is 53.7%.
(2) 
Owns the port of Açu currently under construction.
(3) 
Kriel and Zibulo form part of the Anglo American Inyosi Coal Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) company of which Anglo American owns 73%.
(4) 
Non-controlling interest of 0.018%. Other information
 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 257
OTHER INFORMATION THE BUSINESS – AN OVERVIEW
Platinum Overall ownership: 78%
(1)
100% owned Other interests
South Africa South Africa
Bathopele Mine Union Section 85%
Khomanani Mine Masa Chrome Company 50.1%
Thembelani Mine
Khuseleka Mine Joint operations or sharing agreements
Siphumelele Mine Modikwa Platinum Joint Operation 50%
Tumela Mine Kroondal Pooling and Sharing Agreement 50%
Dishaba Mine Marikana Pooling and Sharing Agreement 50%
Mogalakwena Mine Mototolo Joint Operation 50%
Western Limb Tailings Retreatment
Waterval Smelter (including converting process) Associates
Mortimer Smelter Bokoni 49%
Polokwane Smelter Pandora 42.5%
Rustenburg Base Metals Refinery Bafokeng-Rasimone 33%
Precious Metals Refinery Atlatsa Resources Corporation 27%
Twickenham Mine Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells 17.5%
Zimbabwe South Africa – other
Unki Mine Wesizwe Platinum Limited 13%
Royal Bafokeng Platinum Limited 12.6%
Diamonds Overall ownership: 85%
100% owned Other interests
South Africa
De Beers Consolidated 
Mines 74%
(2)
Venetia
Voorspoed
Namaqualand Mines
(4)
Kimberley Mines
Botswana
Debswana
(5)
50%
Damtshaa
Jwaneng
Orapa
Letlhakane
Namibia
Namdeb Holdings
(3)
50%
Namdeb Diamond Corporation
Mining Area 1
Orange River
Elizabeth Bay
Alluvial Contractors
Debmarine Namibia
Atlantic 1
Sales
DTC Botswana 50%
Namibia DTC 50%
Synthetic Diamond Supermaterials
Element Six Abrasives 60%
Brands
De Beers Diamond Jewellers 50%
Canada
De Beers Canada
Snap Lake
Victor
Sales
Global Sightholder Sales
Auction Sales
Brands
Forevermark
South Africa
De Beers Group Services  
(Exploration and Services)
De Beers Marine
Synthetic Diamond Supermaterials
Element Six Technologies
Other Mining and Industrial
100% owned Other interests
Building materials Aggregates and building materials
Tarmac Building Products Lafarge Tarmac Holdings Limited
(6)
50%
Tarmac Middle East 50%
Other
(7)
100% owned Other interests
Vergelegen (South Africa) Exxaro Resources (southern Africa and Australia) 9.8%
(1) 
The Group’s effective interest in Anglo American Platinum is 79.9%, which includes shares issued as part of a community empowerment deal.
(2) 
The 74% interest in De Beers Consolidated Mines (DBCM) is held indirectly through De Beers Société Anonyme (De Beers). The 74% interest represents De Beers’ legal ownership share in 
DBCM. For accounting purposes De Beers consolidates 100% of DBCM as it is deemed to control the BEE entity which holds the remaining 26% after providing certain financial guarantees on 
its behalf during 2010. The Group’s effective interest in DBCM is 85%.
(3) 
The 50% interest in Namdeb Holdings is held indirectly through De Beers. In November 2011 the Government of the Republic of Namibia and De Beers restructured their mining partnership, 
creating a 50:50 holding company, Namdeb Holdings (Pty) Limited, with full ownership of Namdeb Diamond Corporation (Pty) Limited and De Beers Marine Namibia (Pty) Limited (now trading 
as Debmarine Namibia). All mining licences were transferred to the newly formed company. The Group’s effective interest in Namdeb Holdings is 42.5%.
(4) 
In May 2011 De Beers announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell Namaqualand Mines.
(5) 
The 50% interest in Debswana is held indirectly through De Beers. The Group’s effective interest in Debswana is 16.3%.
(6) 
Lafarge Tarmac Holdings Limited was formed during 2013. See note 30 of the Consolidated financial statements.
(7) 
Included within the Corporate segment. OTHER INFORMATION 
258 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
Annual General Meeting
Will be held at 14:30 on Thursday 24 April 2014, at The Queen Elizabeth II 
Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
Shareholders’ diary 2014–15
Interim results announcement July 2014
Annual results announcement February 2015
Annual Report March 2015
Annual General Meeting April 2015
Shareholding enquiries
Enquiries relating to shareholdings should be made to the Company’s UK 
Registrars, Equiniti, or the South African Transfer Secretaries, Link Market 
Services South Africa (Pty) Limited, at the relevant address below:
UK Registrars
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
England
Telephone: 
In the UK: 0871 384 2026*
From outside the UK: +44 121 415 7558
Transfer Secretaries in South Africa
Link Market Services South Africa (Pty) Limited 
13th Floor, Rennie House 
19 Ameshoff Street 
Braamfontein 2001, South Africa 
(PO Box 4844, Johannesburg, 2000) 
Telephone: +27 (0) 11 713 0800
Enquiries on other matters should be addressed to the Company Secretary  
at the following address:
Registered and Head Office
Anglo American plc 
20 Carlton House Terrace 
London SW1Y 5AN 
England
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7968 8888 
Fax: +44 (0) 20 7968 8500 
Registered number: 3564138 
www.angloamerican.com
Additional information on a wide range of shareholder services can be found  
in the Shareholder Information section of the Notice of AGM and on the  
Group’s website.
*
 
Calls to all 0871 numbers stated in this notice are charged at 8p per minute plus network 
extras. Lines are open 08:30 to 17:30 Monday to Friday.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION 
OTHER ANGLO AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS
 • 2013/14 Fact Book
 • Notice of 2014 AGM and Shareholder Information Booklet
 • Sustainable Development Report 2013
 • Business Unit Sustainable Development Reports (2013)
 • Optima – Anglo American’s current affairs journal
 • Good Citizenship: Business Principles
 • The Environment Way
 • The Occupational Health Way
 • The Projects Way
 • The Safety Way
 • The Social Way
 • The People Development Way
 • www.facebook.com/angloamerican
 • www.twitter.com/angloamerican
 • www.linkedin.com/company/anglo-american
 • www.youtube.com/angloamerican
 • www.flickr.com/angloamerican
 • www.slideshare.com/angloamerican
The Company implemented electronic communications in 2008 in order to 
reduce the financial and environmental costs of producing the Annual Report. 
More information about this can be found in the attached Notice of AGM.  
In this regard we would encourage downloading of reports from our website.
Financial and sustainable development reports may be found at: 
www.angloamerican.com/reportingcentre
However, the 2013 Annual Report and the booklet containing the Notice of  
AGM and other shareholder information are available free of charge from the 
Company, its UK Registrars and the South African Transfer Secretaries.
If you would like to receive paper copies of Anglo American’s publications,  
please write to:
Investor Relations
Anglo American plc 
20 Carlton House Terrace 
London SW1Y 5AN 
England
Alternatively, publications can be ordered online at: 
www.angloamerican.com/siteservices/requestreport
Charitable partners
This is just a selection of the charities which Anglo American, Anglo American 
Chairman’s Fund and the Anglo American Group Foundation have worked 
with in 2013:
Designed and produced 
by Salterbaxter.
This document is printed  
on Amadeus 50 Silk and  
Amadeus 100 Offset which has  
been independently certified 
according to the rules of the  
Forest Stewardship Council®  
(FSC). All the paper in this report  
is at least 50% recycled, with  
pages 151–258 being 100% 
recycled. The recycled fibre is 
bleached in a Process Chlorine  
Free (PCF) process and the virgin 
fibre is Elemental Chlorine Free 
(ECF) bleached.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint  
using its alcofree® and pureprint® 
environmental printing technology, 
and vegetable inks were used 
throughout. Pureprint is a 
CarbonNeutral® company.
Both manufacturing paper mill  
and the printer are registered to  
the Environmental Management 
System ISO 14001 and are Forest 
Stewardship Council® (FSC) 
chain-of-custody certified. Anglo American plc
20 Carlton House T errace
London  
SW1Y 5AN
England
T el +44 (0)20 7968 8888
Fax +44 (0)20 7968 8500
Registered number 3564138
www.angloamerican.com
Find us on Facebook
Follow us on T witter
ANGLO AMERICAN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
