 ANNUAL REPORT 2013  1 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Financial Highlights
                                                           Year ended                Year ended                         
                                                      31 December           31 December
                                                                       2013                          2012*
Continuing Operations:
• Revenue                                               £307.4m                     £300.9m             +2.1%
• EBITDA                                                    £30.2m                       £28.1m             +7.7%
• Operating profit                                  £16.1m                       £12.9m          +25.2%
• Profit before tax                                   £13.0m                          £9.3m          +40.5%
• Basic EPS                                                    6.94p                           5.52p          +25.7%
• Dividends declared and paid              5.25p                           5.25p
• Final dividend recommended            3.50p                           3.50p
• Net debt                                                 £35.6m                       £63.5m                         
Reported results:
• Profit/(loss) before tax                       £13.0m                    £(12.2)m
• Basic EPS                                                    7.20p                        (2.91)p
*The comparative continuing operations are before operational restructuring costs and asset impairments
Woodhouse Lighting, London Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 2
Who we are
Marshalls is the UK’s leading hard landscaping manufacturer and has supplied some of the most prestigious
landmarks in the UK with hard landscaping solutions since the 1890s. Marshalls strives to improve
environments for everyone by using its expertise to create integrated landscapes that promote well-being,
from using fairly traded stone and providing products that alleviate flood risks, to creating innovative anti-
terrorist street furniture. Marshalls provides the product ranges, design services, technical expertise, innovative
ideas and inspiration to transform gardens, drives and public and commercial landscapes.
Marshalls operates its own quarries and manufacturing sites throughout the UK, including a national network
of manufacturing and distribution sites, and has operations in Belgium and sales representation in other
international markets. As a major plc, Marshalls is committed to quality in everything it does, including the
achievement of high environmental and ethical standards and continual improvement in health and safety
performance.
Cautionary Statement
Please read the full cautionary statement which can be found on page 58.
Moselden, Yorkstone, York Minster 3 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
CONTENTS
Financial Highlights                                                                                                                                            1
Who we are                                                                                                                                                            2
Contents                                                                                                                                                                 3
Summary Highlights                                                                                                                                           4 
• Current Priorities                                                                                                                                        5
• KPIs                                                                                                                                                                 6
• Financial History                                                                                                                                         7
Chairman’s Statement                                                                                                                                    8-9
Chief Executive’s Report                                                                                                                            10-13 
Strategic Report 
• Business Model                                                                                                                                  14-17
• Objectives                                                                                                                                            18-19
• Strategy                                                                                                                                                       20
• Market Overview                                                                                                                                     21
• Public Sector and Commercial End Market                                                                               22-23
• Domestic End Market                                                                                                                             24
• International End Market                                                                                                                      25
• Operational Priorities                                                                                                                       26-27
• Risk Management and Principal Risks                                                                                        28-31
• Corporate Responsibility                                                                                                                32-39
• Review of the Year                                                                                                                             40-47
Directors’ Report
• Directors’ Details                                                                                                                                48-49
• Corporate Governance Statement and Nomination Committee Report                        50-59
• Directors’ Report – Other Regulatory Information                                                                 60-62
• Remuneration Committee Report                                                                                               63-90
• Report of the Audit Committee                                                                                                    91-94
Independent Auditor’s Report                                                                                                                95-97
Financial Statements                                                                                                                               98-150
Shareholder Information                                                                                                                              151
Financial History – Consolidated Group                                                                                                  152
Metrolinia, St Catherine’s Academy, Bolton  Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 4
Summary Highlights
The action Marshalls has 
taken over recent years to reduce 
the cost base and net debt, whilst
maintaining operational flexibility,
combined with a range of growth
initiatives, means the business is 
well positioned to take full 
advantage of improving 
market conditions.
Marshalls is increasing output 
to meet growing demand and 
deliver benefits from operational 
gearing. The medium term objective 
is for the Group to return to the 
revenue and profit levels that were
achieved by Marshalls before 
the recession.
Stanton Moor Stone, The Quad, Derby  5 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Current Priorities
Increase output to meet
growing demand and to
deliver benefits from
operational gearing.
Strengthen and
extend the Marshalls brand
focusing on innovation,
service and new product
development.
Develop “strategic
growth initiatives”
for targeted investment
and focus.
Develop and grow 
profitably the
International business 
and invest prudently
in new overseas market
opportunities.
Fairstone Driveway Setts, Autumn Bronze Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 6
KPIs
The following table summarises the Group’s KPIs, together with the relevant target. The Group’s aim is to
maintain an appropriate balance of KPIs, mindful that relative emphasis might change depending on the
position in the economic cycle.
Additional long term KPIs have also been developed to cover the key areas of Energy Management and
Environmental Sustainability to support the Group’s emphasis on these key areas of future development.
2013 RESUL T
3
FUTURE TARGET
Strategic
PBT growth +40.5% Achievement of budget
Earnings per share growth (3 years) RPI + 91.8% 100% over a 3 year period
Operating cash flow growth (3 years) negative 10% over a 3 year period  
Net debt: EBITDA 1.2 times 2 times over the business cycle 
Dividend cover 1.3 times 2 times over the business cycle
Financial
Group revenue growth +2.1% 7% per annum
International revenue growth +22.9% 20% per annum
Net debt £35.6m Achievement of budget 
Return on capital employed (ROCE) 
1
8.1% 15%
Inventory target £70.8m Achievement of budget
Operational
Customer service index 
2
98% 95%
Health & Safety: Reduction in working 
days lost as a result of accidents 14.8% reduction 10% per annum
1
ROCE is defined as EBITA / shareholders’ funds plus net debt.
2
This index combines measures of product availability, on-time delivery performance and administrative and
delivery accuracy.
3
Based on continuing operations before operational restructuring costs and asset impairments.
Woodhouse GEO Furniture and Light Stacks, Aylesbury 7 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Financial History – Continuing Operations
375.9
354.5
288.9
299.9
325.1
300.9
307.4
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
45.3
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
29.5
15.6
11.0
15.0
12.9
16.1
17.46
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
9.85
5.04
3.46
5.66 5.52
6.94
96.9
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
111.3
69.2
66.8
77.1
63.5
35.6
Revenue, operating profit and EPS have grown by
2.1%, 25.2% and 25.7% respectively in 2013. The objective 
is to grow each of these measures to the levels experienced 
before the recession. With net debt at £35.6 million, gearing 
at 20.3% and a net debt: EBITDA ratio of 1.2 times, the 
Group is ahead of its targets.
*The comparative continuing operations are before operational restructuring and works closure costs, goodwill
and asset impairments and the redemption of the debenture stock in 2009. 
Revenue (£m) Operating profit (£m)*
Basic earnings per share
(pence)*
Net debt (£m) Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 8
Chairman’s Statement
I am delighted that, after 6 difficult years, I now believe we are turning the
corner. Economic conditions are improving and forward indicators continue
to be more positive. Of course, this presents new challenges and requires your
Board to develop new priorities but it also brings opportunity. Marshalls’
strong operational and financial flexibility means the business is well placed
to take full advantage of these improving market conditions. 
I am pleased to report that Marshalls’ revenue is up 2 per cent and operating
profit and profit before tax are up 25 per cent and 40 per cent respectively.
The Group’s earnings per share at 6.94 pence is up 26 per cent.
We recognise the importance of dividends to shareholders. The Group continues to have a policy of 2 times
dividend cover over the business cycle and as earnings increase we would plan to share the increase between
strengthening cover and progressively raising the rate of dividend. The Board is recommending a final dividend
of 3.50 pence (2012: 3.50 pence) per share which, together with the interim dividend of 1.75 pence (2012: 1.75
pence) per share, makes a combined dividend of 5.25 pence (2012: 5.25 pence) per share.
As your Chairman, it is my responsibility to lead and manage the Board in its key task of directing the Group’s
vision, values and strategy. My main priorities continue to be focused on the development of the Marshalls’
strategy, promoting the highest standards of corporate governance and ensuring effective communication
with shareholders. Board development is a constant priority and we continue to challenge the effectiveness
of the Board against detailed and regularly updated objectives. 
In my report last year I set out a number of specific Board actions for 2013 including the enhancement of the
strategic planning process, succession planning, Board training on risk and increased shareholder engagement.
I am pleased to report significant progress against all of these commitments. Our priorities for 2014 include
revisiting diversity in the context of succession planning, enhanced Board reporting and creating opportunities
to add value from the experience and expertise of Non-Executive Directors. 
Our medium term objective is to return Marshalls to the level of revenue and profitability enjoyed before the
recession. To deliver this, our key priorities are:
• To increase output to meet growing demand and to deliver benefits from operational gearing;
• To strengthen and extend the Marshalls brand focusing on innovation, service and new product
development;
• To develop “strategic growth initiatives” for targeted investment and focus; and
• To develop and grow profitably the International business and invest prudently in new overseas market
opportunities.
Martyn Coffey became Chief Executive on 10 October 2013 and has already made a significant contribution.
He has an outstanding track record as a proven Chief Executive in growing businesses and brings significant
international experience. On the same date Graham Holden stepped down from the Board and I am pleased
that he is remaining with the business until April 2014 in order to ensure a comprehensive handover and
seamless transition. Graham has worked tirelessly for Marshalls for 27 years, the last 10 of which he has been
Chief Executive. On behalf of the Board and all of Marshalls' staff I would like to thank him for his leadership
and stewardship at a time of significant change in our industry. 
Andrew Allner 9 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
This year’s Annual Report incorporates a number of new features to make the Group’s strategy and
performance easier to understand. I hope this will provide a clearer picture of the Group’s Business Model, its
objectives and key strategic themes. The 2013 Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with
the new Regulations.
This year we are proposing to introduce a new Management Incentive Plan which has a focus towards long
term incentive and share-based awards. Its purpose is to ensure that the Group’s management incentives
continue to be aligned closely with the interests of shareholders and the relevant performance criteria are
directly in accordance with the Group’s strategic objectives and priorities. More information can be found in
the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 63 to 90.
Whilst our customers remain at the very centre of our business model, it is our employees that ensure that
the Group continues to work effectively. On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all our employees for
their ongoing support, commitment and dedication to Marshalls. 
We are planning for good progress in 2014 against a background of improving market conditions.
Andrew Allner
Chairman
Misteri Polished Granite Internal Stone Flooring, Trinity, Leeds Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 10
Chief Executive’s Report
Introduction 
I am pleased to present my first report as Chief Executive of Marshalls plc. The
Company has a leading, trusted brand and a strong market position and
maintains clear values and excellent sustainability and environmental
credentials. In my first 6 months I have spent time at most of our
manufacturing operations and quarries and I have been impressed by the
loyalty, professionalism and pride of the Group’s workforce, which I believe to
be one of the Group’s main strengths. 
Graham Holden has provided valuable support in our transition period and I
would like to take this opportunity to wish him well for the future and to thank him for his leadership and
commitment to Marshalls, particularly during the difficult recent past. 
The last 6 years has seen significant economic and commercial challenges and, in common with many
businesses, Marshalls has experienced some of the most difficult trading conditions in its history. In response
to a significantly declining market the Group reacted quickly to reduce its cost base through plant closures
and headcount reduction. Despite this, the Group has maintained its national geographic coverage and still
retains lowest cost to market and industry leading customer service. The Group has also worked hard to ensure
the retention of operational and financial flexibility and this leaves Marshalls well placed to benefit from the
improving market conditions. The Group’s continuing investment in marketing, sales and operations has
helped maintain its market leading position.
2013 Trading Summary
Marshalls' revenue, from continuing operations, for the year ended 31 December 2013 was up 2.1 per cent at
£307.4 million (2012: £300.9 million) and compares with a 4 per cent reduction at the Half Year. Revenue for
the 6 months to 31 December 2013 was up 9.5 per cent compared with the second half of 2012. Growth has
been seen in the second half in the Public Sector and Commercial and also the Domestic end markets. 
Sales to the Public Sector and Commercial end market, which represent approximately 63 per cent of Marshalls'
sales, were up 0.9 per cent for the year, on a continuing basis, compared with 2012, reflecting the anticipated
improved market conditions in the second half. 
Sales to the Domestic end market, which represent approximately 32 per cent of Group sales, were up 1.6 per
cent compared with the prior year. The survey of domestic installers at the end of February 2014 revealed
order books of 9.3 weeks (2013: 7.8 weeks) notwithstanding the increased activity of the last 6 months.
Operating profit from continuing operations was £16.1 million (2012: £12.9 million, before operational
restructuring costs and asset impairments). EBITDA from continuing operations was £30.2 million (2012: £28.1
million, before operational restructuring costs and asset impairments). 
Basic EPS from continuing operations was 6.94 pence (2012: 5.52 pence, before operational restructuring costs
and asset impairments), an increase of 26 per cent. EPS from total operations was 7.20 pence (2012: loss of
2.91 pence).
On 30 April 2013 the Group completed the sale of a number of quarries and associated aggregates businesses
to Breedon Aggregates England Limited for an initial cash consideration at completion of £17.5 million. On
23 August 2013 additional consideration of £1.2 million was received following the satisfactory completion
of a post completion condition. The post-tax profit from discontinued operations in the year ended 31
December 2013 was £0.5 million, which included a net profit on disposal of £0.3 million.
Martyn Coffey 11 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Cash realised from the sale of quarries and associated aggregate businesses together with the continued
control of inventory and capital expenditure has resulted in a reduction in net debt to £35.6 million (2012:
£63.5 million).
The quarries that were sold supplied solely aggregates, sand and gravel. The Group has retained all of its
dimensional stone quarries, some of which produce aggregate as an ancillary product. The Group retains
significant reserves of dimensional stone and related aggregates and these are summarised on page 16. These
actions have enabled the Group to improve materially on its target net debt to EBITDA ratio of 2 times by the
end of 2013. The net debt to EBITDA ratio at 31 December 2013 is 1.2 times.
Fairstone Sawn Sandstone Steps, Golden Sand Multi Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 12
Current priorities
The current opportunity for Marshalls is to benefit from improving
market conditions and to create increased demand in the brand to
pull additonal sales through our continually developing distribution
channels. We are seeing growth in a number of key areas, for example,
Landscape Water Management and Internal Natural Stone Flooring
together with Home, Rail and Retail. The Group’s current priorities are:
• To increase output to meet growing demand and to deliver
benefits from operational gearing;
• To strengthen and extend the Marshalls brand focusing on
innovation, service and new product development;
• To develop “strategic growth initiatives” for targeted investment
and focus; and
• To develop and grow profitably the International business and
invest prudently in new overseas market opportunities.
Marshalls’ Business Model has its customers as the core focus and this
is explained in more detail on pages 14 to 17. The Group continues
to have customer service as a key KPI and maintains industry leading
standards of product quality, availability and “on time” delivery. The
combined customer service measure continued to be in excess of 97
per cent throughout 2013. 
Customer service lies at the heart of the Marshalls brand. The Brand
strategy is focused on “Creating Better Landscapes” covering all
aspects of Economic, Social and Environmental impacts of hard
landscaping and, where possible, even greater alignment under this
brand will be introduced in future. As hard landscaping experts, the
key priorities remain service, quality, design, innovation and a
commitment to research and development, sustainability and an
integrated product offer. As the economy continues to recover,
greater emphasis will be placed on the further extension of the
Marshalls’ brand across all aspects of hard landscaping. The Group’s
key strategic themes are set out in detail in the Strategic Report on
pages 14 to 47.
Marshalls continues to focus on product innovation and service
delivery initiatives to drive sales growth in all its end markets in order
to benefit from the operational and financial flexibility that has been
built into the Group over recent years. The Group is well placed to
improve trading margins and deliver growth in all its end markets and
key focus areas. 
Stone cladding, which is a relatively new area of focus for the Group,
is a particular growth area and Marshalls is supplying  stone for a new
prestigious office building in the City of London.
St Bees Sandstone and Locharbriggs Sandstone 13 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Developing the International market is a key priority and sales currently comprise around 5 per cent of Group
Revenue, having increased by 23 per cent during 2013. The Group will continue to invest in its International
structures in order to grow profitably this part of the business and to develop opportunities to promote growth
both organically and by acquisition. The Group has recently appointed an International Director who will add
further focus to this important area. 
Future outlook
The Construction Products Association’s (“CPA”) Winter Forecast predicts growth of 3.4 per cent in 2014 and
5.2 per cent in 2015, which compares with 2.7 per cent and 4.6 per cent respectively in their Autumn Forecast.
The CPA predicts that growth in private house building, infrastructure work and commercial activity will drive
recovery in the sector over the next 4 years although they do also point to considerable uncertainties regarding
the long term sustainability of the recovery. 
The actions Marshalls has taken over recent years to reduce the cost base and debt, whilst maintaining
operational flexibility, means the business is well positioned to take full advantage of the improving market
conditions. In addition, there are further opportunities to refocus the business and achieve growth, and set
rigorous targets and a clear growth objective for the years ahead.
Sales in January and February 2014 are up 18 per cent against very weak weather-affected comparatives.
Marshalls is increasing output to meet growing demand and deliver benefits from operational gearing. The
medium term objective is for the Group to return to the revenue and profit levels that were achieved by
Marshalls before the recession. 
Martyn Coffey
Chief Executive
Internal Stone Flooring, One New Change Street, London Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 14
Strategic Report
Business Model 
Marshalls supplies its customers with innovatively designed ranges of the highest quality landscape products
and provides outstanding levels of customer service in its chosen markets.
Customers are at the Centre of our Business
End Markets and Customers
Customers
Marshalls’ customers are the large builders’ merchant groups, independent builders’ merchants, garden centres,
contractors, Local Authorities and domestic consumers. 
Markets
In Public Sector and Commercial end markets, customers use Marshalls’ products to transform landscapes
including retail and industrial developments and new build as well as repair and maintenance projects. In
Domestic end markets, home improvement and home building projects are the largest users of the Group’s
wide range of landscape products. 
International
The International offer combines natural sandstone, granite and limestone from India, China and Vietnam
with specialist manufactured products from the UK. Within Western Europe these products complement those
manufactured locally in Belgium. Key strengths include marketing and sales collateral, sales processes and
systems, a broad range of products and manufacturing and technical expertise.
As a result of International investment the Group has two operating sites in Belgium and subsidiary companies
based in China and the USA. The Group is well placed to extend its customer base into wider European and
International markets.
Domestic 
Home improvement;
National Builders Merchants;
Independent Builders Merchants;
Buying Groups;
DIY Groups;
Garden Centres; 
Garden Designers;
Landscape Contractors;
Installers; and
Domestic Consumers (eg. e-Bay).
Public Sector & Commercial 
New build and repair,
maintenance and improvement
projects;
Design and Build;
Architects & Specifiers;
Contractors; 
Builders Merchants; 
Local Authorities; and
Government Bodies.
International
Domestic: Home improvement
and home building;
Public Sector & Commercial:
New build and repair,
maintenance and improvement
projects; and
Customers: Agents and
Distributors.
Customers
Choice
Service Quality
Sustainability
Innovation
New
Products
Design
Integrated
Offer
Ethical
Sourcing 15 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Operational model
The operational model is summarised below:
Operations
Operationally, the UK business consists of a single integrated logistics and distribution operation supplied by
centrally managed production units. A variety of landscape, driveway and garden products are manufactured
using the same production facilities for sale into each of the end markets.  An analysis of sales by these end
markets is provided on page 40.
Sourcing: 
International supply chain –
natural sandstone, granite and
limestone from India, China and
Vietnam;
UK sourcing of natural stone and
aggregates from own quarries
and third parties; and
UK sourcing of other raw
materials.
Manufacture:
Centrally directed and locally
managed production units;
Operating assets produce for
each “ end market”;
Landscape, driveway and garden
products; and
Horizontal and vertical and
external and internal.
Distribution:
Single integrated logistics and
distribution operation;
Own fleet with over 150 specialist
vehicles; and
National geographic coverage. 
Olympic Park, Barcelona Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 16
Manufacture and Supply
The Group manufactures and supplies landscape, driveway and garden products from a range of materials,
being principally concrete and natural stone, to the Domestic and Public Sector and Commercial end markets.
The Group operates a number of quarries and centrally managed production units throughout the United
Kingdom, supported by a single integrated logistics and distribution operation. The Group’s operating assets
produce and deliver a range of products that are sold into each end market area. The structure gives flexibility
in the development of individual products under the Marshalls’ brand whilst providing strategic focus through
the integrated national and centrally administered functions.
The Group has a unique national network of manufacturing and distribution sites, and has a wide geographical
spread. 
The same capital equipment produces products for both
the Public Sector and Commercial and the Domestic end
markets and this flexibility remains a key operational
objective. Products are distributed from this network of
sites either to customers’ depots or, at their request, direct
to site. Ethically sourced natural stone products are
imported from India, China and Vietnam to supply both UK
and European markets.
Of the Group's customers, 97 per cent are within a 2 hour
drive time of one of our regional centres and this continues
to be a key competitive advantage, especially when fuel
costs are high. The Group utilises well invested modern
plants which have sufficient capacity to meet medium term
demand requirements efficiently and have the operational
and financial flexibility to respond to any further changes
in market conditions.
Research and Development
Marshalls has a world class Manufacturing, Innovation and Development team, staffed by high calibre
engineers and technicians, which delivers competitive advantage through machinery design and installation.
Innovation in all areas of the business over an extended period has been a key element of the Group’s success
and significant resources will continue to be invested in Research and Development in the future. The Group’s
investment in new product development has more than doubled since 2011.
UK Natural Stone reserves
The Group maintains its reputation for technical expertise, quality and service and has extensive reserves of
natural stone. This broad approach differentiates the Group from its competitors. Notwithstanding the sale of
aggregates quarries on 30 April 2013, the Group has significant consented reserves of dimensional stone and
aggregates. The dimensional stone reserves at 31 December 2013 were 8 million tonnes which represents 65
years at current levels of extraction (2012: 7.5 million tonnes, 52 years). The Group continues to seek
opportunities to expand reserves and geographical coverage. In dimensional stone Marshalls is the market
leader and the Group has paved every street on the London Monopoly Board. The Group has a comprehensive
portfolio of natural stone types along with state of the art manufacturing equipment and excellent
specification and technical sales resources. The Group has retained significant reserves of aggregates at its
dimensional stone quarries by virtue of aggregates being available as a "by-product" operation.
97% of 
population covered 17 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
The Marshalls’ Brand 
Marshalls’ Business Model is based on core values and the continuing promotion of the Marshalls’ Brand.
The brand strategy is focused on “Creating Better 
Landscapes” covering all aspects of Economic, Social 
and Environmental impacts of hard landscaping. 
We know our markets
and the decision
makers and how to
convince them to
choose Marshalls
We embed Marshalls’
Values and Behaviours
consistently in our
people
We employ a
sustainable approach –
Environmentally,
Socially and
Economically
We apply the right
resources to execute
our plans effectively
A Brand that
Inspires
Confidence in
“Creating
Better
Landscapes”
Overall Brand Strategy
• To ensure that Marshalls is synonymous
with “Creating Better Landscapes” , leads the
sustainability debate and demonstrates its
thought leadership and the positive impact
of its products and services.
• To create an enduring product loyalty
which seeks to protect and increase market
share and profitability.
Marshalls Values
Trust
• Trust is the foundation of all relationships and the Group works hard to establish and
maintain this position. 
• The Group deals with all its stakeholders fairly, acting honestly with integrity and
respect.
• The Group applies all relevant legislation as the minimum acceptable standard.
Leadership
• As market leaders the Group aims to set the standards others aspire to meet.
• With a clear strategy, Marshalls has a culture where everyone is encouraged to develop
their full potential and is able to contribute fully to the achievement of both personal
and corporate objectives. 
Excellence
• As leaders in our field, Marshalls aims to ensure that its standards are not compromised
and that we exceed stakeholder expectations across all parts of our business.
• The Group fosters a culture of on-going improvement and innovation in response to
the needs of all our stakeholders. 
• Marshalls attracts and employs the best available people to deliver success.
Sustainable 
• Marshalls’ sustainability values are focused on environmental and social objectives
covering carbon emissions, energy reduction, water management, minimising waste
and using recycled materials.
• The Group works with partner organisations including the UN Global Compact, the
Carbon Trust, the Ethical Trading Initiative, Business in the Community and FTSE4Good.
• Marshalls endeavours to ensure that all of its decisions and actions are sustainable.
Trust
Leadership
Excellence
Sustainable Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 18
Objectives
The key corporate and business objectives have been summarised below. The Group’s aim is to maintain an
appropriate balance of all these objectives at any given time, mindful that relative emphasis might change
depending on the position in the economic cycle. In recent years the emphasis has been on cost and net debt
reduction and careful management of working capital and capital expenditure. As the economy enters a
growth phase, investment and growth objectives will increase in their relative importance. 
Financial:
• To deliver superior returns for shareholders in a sustainable way (Revenue growth, EPS growth, Operating
Cash Flow (“OCF”) growth):
o To maintain sustainable profitability within all customer groups and end markets; and
o To improve the operating profit percentage through the cyclical economic uplift.
• To ensure financial flexibility to respond to any changes in the market; 
• To maintain a Net Debt to EBITDA ratio of 2 times (subject to short term investment needs); and
• To have a progressive dividend policy consistent with a strengthening dividend cover to 2 times.
Commercial and Operational:
• To ensure the timely and efficient supply of products to customers (with customer service continuing to
exceed customer expectations);
• To take commercial advantage of improving cyclical market conditions to increase market share by
ensuring that the Group has sufficient capacity in the correct locations to meet expected demand;
• To optimise operational flexibility in order to be able to respond to any further changes in market
conditions (both up or down) including:
o Multi-skilling of the workforce and more flexible shift patterns;
o Improving the flexibility and effectiveness of product manufacture; and
o Improving the operational cost and efficiency of the manufacturing and distribution network.
• To be “best in class” and to maintain a leadership position for technical and design support, product
innovation (including improving product mix), product quality, ethical and sustainability policies and
customer service; 
• To be an employer of choice;
• To ensure continuing improvements of health and safety and sustainability performance; and
• To develop the Marshalls’ brand internationally.
Perpignan, Classical Flagstones 19 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
The Group seeks to exceed the expectations of customers in all end markets through quality materials
produced, administered, delivered and sold by highly motivated and engaged employees. The Group sets
industry leading standards of product quality, availability and “on time” delivery. The customer service index
KPI measures product availability, accuracy and timeliness of deliveries and administrative accuracy. Marshalls
is committed to maintaining and developing its market leading position. At the same time the Group is
committed to conducting business in a manner which achieves sustainable growth whilst incorporating and
demonstrating a high degree of social responsibility.
The Group continues to improve the flexibility of its manufacturing through multi-skilling of the workforce
and more flexible shift patterns. These factors optimise manufacturing efficiency and enable Marshalls to
maintain the lowest cost to market. The Group’s plants are modern and well invested and this continues to
enable capital expenditure to be maintained at historically low levels without any noticeable impact on the
effectiveness of the business. The Group is continually striving to improve the flexibility and effectiveness of
product manufacture and is at the forefront of technical research and development. 
Heritage Octant Paving, Calder Brown Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 20
Strategy
During the last few years the Group’s main focus has been to respond to the impact of the recession and
Marshalls continues to balance short term performance with medium term investment. The Group’s strategic
focus has now turned to recovery and preparation for growth.
There continues to be a potential for growth in the Group's existing end markets and three areas have been
identified to generate sustainable outperformance. These are:
• Targeted marketing and product innovation in the Public Sector and Commercial end market to provide
a broader range of product solutions;
• Enhanced merchandising initiatives and increasingly developed links with installers to drive market share
and improved product mix in the Domestic end market; and
• International expansion, selling a range of innovative premium landscape products into new markets.
The Group’s long term strategy to achieve its objectives is as follows:
1. To deliver sustainable shareholder value by improving the profitability of the Group’s operations and
optimising the operating performance of the business;
2. To maintain a strong market position and sustainable profitability with the national builders’ merchants
and the Public Sector and Commercial end market and to improve market share in other target markets; 
3. To develop relationships with installers to deliver more effective penetration of the key domestic routes
to market and to improve product mix; and
4. To invest in selective synergistic acquisitions and organic expansion in existing and related markets and
product categories to expand our core business.
New Housing in Oxford, Ironstone 21 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Market Overview
The Construction Products Association (“CPA”) reported a 7.5 per cent decrease in construction output in 2012
but, from the second quarter of 2013, trading conditions have significantly improved. Background economic
conditions in the UK also improved and GDP growth was 1.9 per cent in 2013 which was ahead of forecasts
made earlier in the year. GDP growth of 2.4 per cent is forecast for 2014. The prospects for the Eurozone
continue to remain more subdued. Consumer price inflation is likely to remain above target at around 2.4 per
cent in 2014, which would represent a fall from 2.6 per cent in 2013.
The CPA has continued to strengthen its recent forecasts and the latest winter announcement reported an
increase of 1.0 per cent in 2013. This compares with a 10 per cent reduction in the first quarter of 2013. The
chart below illustrates the CPA’s current forecast of 3.4 per cent growth in 2014 and growth of 5.2 per cent, 4.4
per cent and 3.8 per cent in the following 3 years.
A significant part of this recovery is being driven by private housing which is being partly boosted by
Government schemes such as “Help to Buy” and the “Funding for Lending Scheme” .  Private housing starts are
estimated to have grown by 24 per cent in 2013 and further growth of 16 per cent is forecast for 2014. The
CP A’s overall view is that in the short term, private housing and infrastructure are expected to drive the industry
recovery. Sustained, longer term growth will also need to see a recovery in private commercial and an end to
capital expenditure cuts in the Public Sector. Rail infrastructure spend is being particularly boosted by Network
Rail’s nationwide work programme supported by a few major projects, including Crossrail. As a consequence
output from rail infrastructure spending is forecast to grow by 10 per cent in both 2014 and 2015.
Within the Public Sector and Commercial end market, the CPA reports that Other New Work, a proxy for
demand, was down 0.6 per cent in 2013 but will return to growth of 3.3 per cent in 2014. Growth of 6.0 per
cent is currently forecast for both 2015 and 2016.
In the Domestic end market, the CPA reports that Private Housing Repair, Maintenance and Improvement
expenditure, a proxy for Domestic end market demand, increased by 2.0 per cent in 2013. Growth of 3.5 per
cent is expected in 2014 with increases of 4.0 per cent forecast in both 2015 and 2016. Although it fell slightly
in the final quarter of 2013, the GfK’s Consumer Confidence index has improved significantly at the start of
2014.  The index is now higher than at any time since September 2007 and the improvement since April 2013
has been a very significant 20 points. 
-7.5%
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
1.0%
3.4%
5.2%
4.4%
3.8%
Source: ONS Construction Products Association
Construction Output (% Growth) Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 22
Public Sector and Commercial end market
In the Public Sector and Commercial end market Marshalls’ strategy is to build on its position as a market
leading landscape products specialist. The Group has experienced technical and sales teams who continue to
focus on markets where future demand is greatest across a full range of integrated products and sustainable
solutions to customers, architects and contractors. In particular, the Group has targeted those parts of the
market where it anticipates growth such as Rail Infrastructure and Home Improvement. The rail sector includes
Crossrail, which is the largest construction project in Europe. 
The Group has received technical approval for a wider portfolio of products for both this project and the sector
generally. In the Home Improvement sector, Marshalls has secured framework agreements with eleven of the
top 25 house builders. 
The Group is making further investment in water management and sustainable urban drainage products,
street furniture and traffic management to enhance its offer. Sales resource has also been allocated to the
natural stone internal paving market, stone cladding for the Commercial market and the International Public
Sector and Commercial end market. The Group’s sales teams provide a full range of integrated projects and
sustainable solutions to support the specialist product directories and marketing collateral. The process of
identifying projects and following them through to completion is analytical and data driven and utilises
specialist software unique to Marshalls. The combination of marketing, systems, processes and highly
experienced sales teams continues to provide the Group with a sustainable competitive advantage.
Marshalls continues to be the only landscape products company able to provide a fully integrated product
offer to the Public Sector and Commercial end market. This integrated offer was created in response to the
specific demand of suppliers, distributors, and architects but its value is now also appreciated in a wider
environmental context and increasingly by local authorities and other Public Sector bodies. Approximately
50 per cent of all sales enquiries cover more than one product category with around 20 per cent covering
three or more.
The Group has experienced technical and sales teams focused on the key growth areas and by working with
clients, architects and contractors they are able to provide a unique overview of the project and offer a
complete solution comprising a full suite of products. 23 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Many projects have a lead time of 2 to 3 years. The Group has deliberately retained its experienced technical
and sales teams whilst some competitors have cut back. Relationships with clients, architects and contractors
and the development of systems to identify projects are a key priority. The visibility of projects through
externally measured sources such as Barbour ABI gives a measure of control over securing future volume. This
approach continues to deliver good growth in bespoke street furniture, natural stone paving and sustainable
urban drainage products.
Historically, the Barbour ABI chart has provided a reliable picture of future demand. It consolidates planning
information for all the sub sectors requiring hard landscaping. On average, there is a 12 month lag between
contracts being awarded and the landscape products being required, so it provides 12 month advance
information on likely future demand.
Contracts Awarded 12 Month Rolling Average of Hard Landscape Value (ABI with 12 Month Lag)
50
100
150
200
250
300
£’000
Jan-05
May-05
Sep-05
Jan-06
May-06
Sep-06
Jan-07
May-07
Sep-07
Jan-08
May-08
Sep-08
Jan-09
May-09
Sep-09
Jan-10
May-10
Sep-10
Jan-11
May-11
Sep-11
Jan-12
May-12
Sep-12
Jan-13
May-13
Sep-13
Jan-14
May-14
Sep-14
Exhibition Road, London Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 24
Domestic end market
The target customer groups for installed patios and driveways occupy 8.9 million homes, a far bigger potential
market than new build. These customers are generally older, have equity in their property, earn more and
often have savings. An ageing population is combining with a lifestyle trend towards more outdoor living and
the “outdoor room” . Through marketing and product development the Group continues to promote solutions
to meet the aspirations of these customer groups.
The recent move towards building more new houses rather than flats is also a welcome trend. Quality installers
are increasingly busy and the trend is towards older customers, with a higher proportion of cash transactions
with long term home owners rather than new home purchasers. The installed housing base is 25 million, far
higher than the new build market of between 100,000 and 200,000 houses per year.
The Group’s Domestic strategy is to drive more sales through quality installers. The objective is to improve the
product mix, continually develop the Marshalls brand and deliver a market leading level of service. The
Marshalls Register of approved domestic installers is unique and, having grown to a total of 1,800 teams, the
focus is now to ensure a consistently high standard of quality and good geographical coverage.
The Group remains committed to increasing the marketing support to the installer base and the Marshalls
Register through increased training, marketing materials and sales support. The Group has also continued to
focus on innovation in order to develop areas with particular sales opportunity and to strengthen further the
Marshalls’ branded offer. Marshalls also provides direct delivery to installers of value added products not easily
sourced through stockists. 
Coach House Walling, Cotswold
Marshalls Register of Installer Teams
Feb-00
Oct-00
Jun-01
Feb-02
Oct-02
Jun-03
Feb-04
Oct-04
Jun-05
Feb-06
Oct-06
Jun-07
Feb-08
Oct-08
Jun-09
Feb-10
Oct-10
Jun-11
Feb-12
Oct-12
Jun-13
Oct-13
2000
1800
1600
1400
1200
1000
800
600
400
200
0 25 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
International end market 
In Western Europe, the Group’s strategy in the Domestic end market is to be a niche, premium product supplier.
The Group has 2 operational sites in Belgium manufacturing landscape products and providing a physical
stock location in mainland Europe from which to supply the wider Group’s specialist product portfolio. The
aim is to provide products that are not readily available in mainland Europe. There are over 40 million people
living within a 2 hour drive from the 2 sites, an area that covers Belgium, Holland, Northern France and parts
of Germany.
The Group has invested £0.5 million per annum in a specification sales team to address the Public Sector and
Commercial end market where the lead times are longer. The focus is on unique products that offer the market
something new and different. This includes security products, ethically sourced natural stone directly from
India, China and Vietnam and other specialist manufactured products.
Technology developed by the Belgium subsidiary has led to the launch in the UK of  the Group’s new cobble
effect driveway product. This product represents the first really innovative new driveway product for over a
decade. 
International Strategy Destination and
Source of International Sales: 2013
(Total value £16.5 million)
2013 International Sales by Destination
2013 International Sales by Country of Origin
Belgium
India
UK
China
Vietnam
ROW
Belgium
Netherlands
North America
ROW
France
Middle East
Other Europe Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 26
Operational priorities 
The Group’s current strategic emphasis and areas of particular strategic focus are derived from market analysis
and the specific objectives that have been identified. The purpose of the strategy is to deliver the objectives.
The Group’s KPIs monitor progress towards the achievement of the objectives and on pages 28 to 31 an
assessment is made of the risk factors that might prevent the Group from achieving its principal objectives.
The Group’s operational priorities are summarised below:
Corporate
• To strengthen and extend the Marshalls’ brand focusing on innovation, service and new product
development;
• To develop “strategic growth initiatives” for targeted investment and focus; and
• To continue the tight control of inventory, monetary working capital and capital expenditure.
Operational
• To ensure resources are in place to meet the expected cyclical increase in demand without significant
additional investment; and
• To increase output to meet growing demand and to deliver benefits from operational gearing.
Public Sector and Commercial
• To target marketing, cross selling opportunities and product innovation;
• To continue to focus on “Scapes” and the introduction of new scapes with market growth potential;
• To focus on targeted growth areas such as: water management, sustainable urban drainage, traffic
management, internal stone paving, stone cladding, education, home improvement, rail and sustainability;
and
• To continue to enhance the Group’s portfolio of natural stone types.
Fairstone Sawn Walling, Caramel Cream 27 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Domestic
• To create more “pull through” demand from consumers and installers through the installers and merchant
supply chain;
• To develop further the relationship with installers to improve lead generation; 
• To develop further merchandising initiatives with merchants; 
• To promote new products to improve the added value from product mix; and
• To continue to focus on training, marketing and sales support.
International 
• To develop and grow profitably the International market and invest prudently in new overseas market
opportunities; and
• To continue to develop and improve the cost efficiency of supply chains from India, China and Vietnam.
GEO Signage, Blackpool Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 28
Risk Management and Principal Risks
Framework for managing risk
The Group’s Risk Committee determines the Group’s approach to risk, its policies and the procedures that are
put in place to mitigate exposure to risk.
Process
There is a formal ongoing process to identify, assess and analyse risks and those of a more material nature are
included in the Group Risk Register. The Group Risk Register is reviewed and updated at least every 6 months
and the overall process is the subject of regular review. Risks are recorded with a full analysis and risk owners
are nominated who have authority and responsibility for assessing and managing the risk. All risks are analysed
for impact and probability to determine exposure and impact to the business and the determination of a
“gross risk score” enables risk exposure to be prioritised. External risks include the weather, political and
economic conditions, the effect of legislation or other regulatory actions, the actions of competitors, foreign
exchange, raw material prices and pension funding.  Internal risks include investment in new products, new
business strategies and acquisitions.
The Group seeks to mitigate exposure to all forms of strategic, financial and operational risk both external and
internal.  The effectiveness of key mitigating controls is continually monitored and such controls are subjected
to internal audit and periodic testing in order to provide independent verification where this is deemed
appropriate. The effectiveness and impact of key controls are evaluated and this is used to determine a “net
risk score” for each risk. The process is used to develop action plans that are used to manage, or respond to,
the risks and these are monitored and reviewed on a regular basis by the Group’s Risk Committee.
Macro-economic and political 
The Group is dependent on the
level of activity in its end markets.
Accordingly, it is susceptible to
economic downturn and Govern-
ment policy that impacts the level
of Public Sector investment.
The lower activity levels
could reduce sales and
production volumes which
may have an adverse effect
on the Group's financial
results.
The lower activity levels
could reduce sales and
production volumes could
have an adverse effect on
the Group's financial
results.
• The Group closely monitors trends and
lead indicators, invests in market research
and is an active member of the CPA. 
• The Group benefits from the diversity of
its business and end markets. 
• The Group focuses on sales
opportunities and strategic growth
initiatives, together with quality, service
and its supply chain.
• The Group undertakes ongoing reviews
of trading policies and relationships and
maintains constant communication with
customers.
• The Group has a continuing focus on
new product development including
landscape water management.
• The Group is developing its internal
flooring offer and widening its
International offer in order to diversify its
activities and therefore reduce its
reliance on potentially weather-affected
product areas.
Weather
The Group is exposed to the
impact of prolonged periods of
bad weather.
Nature of risk Potential impact Mitigating factors 29 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Competitor Activity
The Group has a number of
existing competitors who compete
on range, price, quality and service.
Potential new low cost competitors
may be attracted into the market
through increased demand
particularly for imported natural
stone products.
The increased competition
could reduce volumes and
margins on manufactured
and traded products.
The increased costs could
reduce margins and may
be further impacted in the
event of imbalances in the
mix of regional activity.
• The Group has unique selling points that
differentiate the Marshalls branded offer. 
• The Group focuses on quality, service,
reliability and ethical standards that
differentiate Marshalls from competitor
products. 
• The Group continues to have the lowest
cost to market. 
• The Group has a continuing focus on
new product development. 
• The Group benefits from the diversity of
its business and end markets. 
• The Group focuses on its supplier
relationships, flexible contracts and the
use of hedging instruments. 
• The Group utilises sales pricing  and
purchasing policies designed to
mitigate the risks. 
• The Group owns its fleet and uses
specialist delivery vehicles.
Costs
The Group is susceptible to
significant increases in the price of
raw materials, utilities, fuel oil,
haulage costs and vehicle
availability.
Such acquisitions might
have an impact on the risk
profile of the Group and
could have an impact on
the retention of key
personnel within the
acquired business.
• The Group uses specialist advisers and
undertakes extensive due diligence. 
• Each acquisition is supported by a
detailed integration plan covering all
key areas of activity and involving
employees from the wider Group with
the appropriate skills required.
Business Integration
The Group continues to target
strategic business acquisitions and
the integration of any acquisition
could act as a diversion of
management's attention.
These risks could increase
pension scheme liabilities
or reduce assets, putting
pressure on accounting
notional interest and
therefore downward
pressure on PBT and EPS.
This could also result in the
need for additional cash
injections.
• The Group Pension Scheme is closed to
new members and future service
accrual.
• The Group uses liability driven
investments to hedge interest rate and
inflation risks. 
• De-risking strategies continue to be
pursued and risk management is a key
control used by the Trustee.
• Professional advisers are consulted to
minimise risk.
Pension
The Defined Benefit Pension
Scheme may be impacted by
volatility in financial markets and
the longevity of members
Nature of risk Potential impact Mitigating factors Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 30
International
Continued lack of market activity
and market growth in Western
Europe.
The lower activity levels
could lead to lower sales
and production volumes
and therefore the need for
increased funding support.
• The Group closely monitors trends and
lead indicators. 
• The Group benefits from the diversity of
its business and end markets. 
• The Group focuses on sales
opportunities and strategic growth
initiatives, together with quality, service
and its supply chain.
• The Group undertakes ongoing reviews
of trading policies and relationships and
maintains constant communication with
customers. 
An incident could lead to
disruption to production
and to financial penalties
as well as a potential
negative impact on the
Group's reputation.
• The Group uses professional specialists
covering carbon reduction, water
management and biodiversity. 
• The Group focuses on the
implementation of ISO standards.
• The Group has a formal Group
sustainability strategy focusing on
impact reduction.
Environmental
The risk in an environmental
contamination event is that it may
lead to a prosecution and to
reputational loss.
An incident could lead to a
disruption to the supply of
products for customers
and to increased costs as
well as a potential negative
impact on the Group's
reputation.
• The Group employs compliance
procedures and policies which seek to
ensure that local, national and
international regulatory and compliance
procedures are fully complied with. 
• The Group’s emphasis is on high
environmental, ethical and health &
safety standards and it undertakes
independent audit processes for its
overseas supply chain, particularly India
and China.
Corporate, Legal and Regulatory
The Group may be adversely
affected by an unexpected
reputational event, for example, it
its ethical supply chain.
Insufficient access to
funding could limit the
Group’s ability to achieve
the desired levels of
growth. 
• The Group has significant committed
facilities in place with a good spread of
medium term maturities and significant
headroom. 
• The Group’s policy continues to be to
arrange funding ahead of requirements
and to maintain sufficient undrawn
committed bank facilities.
• Relationships are maintained with
several potential banking partners.
Access to Funding
The Group continues to require
debt funding in order to meet its
trading obligations and to grow
the business.
Nature of risk Potential impact Mitigating factors 31 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Financial Instruments
The main risks arising from the
Group's financial instruments are
liquidity risk, interest rate risk,
credit risk, pricing risk and foreign
currency risk.
Ineffective procedures
could lead to an adverse
effect on the Group's
financial results.
• The Board reviews and agrees policies
for managing each of these risks. 
• The Group undertakes no speculative
trading in financial instruments.
• The Group manages its insurance risk by
continuous review and maintaining a
balance between capped self-insurance
and third party cover against major
catastrophes.
Ineffective procedures
could lead to an adverse
effect on the Group's
financial results. 
• All IT system development projects are
actively and carefully planned with
defined governance and control
procedures. 
• To support and enable future growth
the Group has upgraded its IT systems to
ensure a common platform across all
business units.
• Regular independent risk and project
management audits are undertaken.
• The Group ensures that industry
standards are adopted and disaster
recovery plans and procedures exist and
are regularly tested.
IT Infrastructure
Disruption to the IT environment
could affect the Group's ability to
conduct its ongoing operations.
Ineffective procedures
could lead to poor decision
making, an inability to
meet business objectives
and a lack of innovation
and enterprise within the
Group.
• The Board reviews and agrees HR
policies covering all relevant areas. 
• Formal recruitment processes are
maintained.
• The Group has a formal appraisal
process and ensures there is scope for
progression in the Group. 
• The Group aims to have competitive
remuneration packages and bonus
schemes.
• The Remuneration Committee reviews
all key issues relating to Executive
Remuneration.
Recruitment and Retention of
Key Personnel
The Group needs to ensure that it
continues to be able to attract,
develop, motivate and retain good
quality employees and leaders. 
Nature of risk Potential impact Mitigating factors Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 32
Corporate Responsibility 
Corporate responsibility, awareness and mitigation of adverse impact on our environment, and positive
engagement with our community and employees have long been core values of Marshalls. We aim to align
our business values, purpose and strategy with the social, economic and environmental needs of our
stakeholders, embedding responsible and ethical business policies and practices in everything we do.
Our commitment to these values is driven by the Board, and David Sarti is the Director with primary responsibility
for managing the key elements of the Group’ s policies relating to environmental and social matters, and reporting
to the Board on progress against the Group’s Corporate Responsibility KPIs.
The key aspects of Marshalls’ approach to the risks and opportunities arising from environmental, social and
governance matters are highlighted in this section of the Strategic Report, which explains how we have
addressed these during 2013, and includes regulatory information relating to carbon emissions, employee
diversity and our policies in relation to the recruitment of and engagement with employees. Marshalls’
Corporate Responsibility Policy and the latest published Corporate Responsibility Report can be found on our
website at www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability. The Corporate Responsibility Report, which contains data
independently audited by BSI, covers our activities in the UK and overseas and progress against our Corporate
Responsibility KPIs.
People and Environment
The Group remained a constituent member of the FTSE4Good UK Index throughout 2013.  The Group also
continued to be a member of Business in the Community ("BITC"), a signatory of the United Nations Global
Compact ("UNGC") and a member of the Ethical Trade Initiative ("ETI"). 
As a signatory of the UNGC, Marshalls commits to aligning its operations and strategies with the ten universally
accepted principles in the UNGC. We are proud that Marshalls’ Group Marketing Director, Chris Harrop has,
since 2012, been the Chairman of the UNGC UK Network.  Marshalls believes that the benefits from
engagement include:  
• being part of an established and globally recognised policy framework for the development,
implementation, and disclosure of environmental, social, and governance policies and practices;
• sharing best and emerging practices to advance practical solutions and strategies to common challenges;
• advancing sustainability solutions in partnership with a range of stakeholders, including UN agencies,
governments, civil society, labour, and other non-business interests;
• linking business units and subsidiaries across the value chain with the UNGC's Local Networks around the
world;
• accessing the United Nations' extensive knowledge of and experience with sustainability and development
issues; and
• utilising UNGC management tools and resources, and the opportunity to engage in specialised
workstreams in the environmental, social and governance realms.
• Manage Risk
• Local Compliance
• Social licence to
operate
• Do the right thing
• Gain Competitive
Advantage
• Find and develop
new market
opportunities
• Grow long term
• Attract and Retain
staff
• The world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative.
• A commitment to an underlying universal set of principles to guide
responsible business practice and connect with a global community.
• Launched in 2000, the UN Global Compact represents a Compact
between business and United Nations agencies, labour, civil society
and governments.
• Its aim is to help drive competitive advantage through
responsible business practice.
• Currently over 10,000 signatories in over 145 countries. 33 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
The UNGC incorporates a transparency and accountability policy known as the Communication on Progress
("COP"). The annual posting of a COP is an important demonstration of a participant's commitment to the
UNGC and its principles.  Participating companies are required to follow this policy, as a commitment to
transparency and disclosure is critical to the success of the initiative. Marshalls’ annual COP can be found on
the UNGC website via our link www.marshalls.co.uk/cop2012.
During 2013, Marshalls adopted the Children's Rights and Business Principles developed by UNICEF, the UN
Global Compact and Save the Children. The Children’s Rights and Business Principles are the first
comprehensive set of principles to guide companies on the full range of actions they can take in the workplace,
marketplace and community to respect and support children’s rights.
Ethical Trade Initiative
The Group has pioneered the ethical sourcing of natural stone paving from India, China and latterly Vietnam.
With a local partner the Group has established schools, health facilities and health insurance programmes in
India. Marshalls “Fairstone” products combine the attributes of fair trade and ethical sourcing. As part of its
ongoing commitment to the ETI Base Code, the Group has been driving forward ethical best practice within
its Indian and Chinese natural stone suppliers. Marshalls’ ethical sourcing programme incorporates regular
independent supply chain audits.
Community
Marshalls is an active member of and participant in Business in the Community (“BITC”). By participating, we
give substance to our commitment to responsible business practice and engagement with employees,
customers and the communities in which we operate. Marshalls has a consistent track record of active
community initiatives. During 2013, we developed a programme under which our operating sites entered into
partnerships with local schools as part of the BITC-sponsored “Business Class in Action” programme aimed at
helping young people, some of whom have no family experience of work, to prepare for the working
environment and support them in making career and training choices. Events have already taken place at 8
operating sites across the UK, with 3 further sites planning to launch in the near future.
The BITC CR Index helps companies systematically measure, manage and integrate responsible business
practice, under which companies are assessed. Marshalls is pleased to have retained its “Gold” status in the
2013 results ranked against this assessment. The list of accredited companies can be found via the BITC website:
http://www.bitc.org.uk/our-services/benchmarking-recognition/cr-index. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 34
Carbon Emissions – GHG disclosure 
Marshalls’ Energy and Climate Change Policy confirms the Group’s commitment to
reducing the Energy and Carbon impact of its business. Our target is to reduce
absolute CO 2e emissions in line with UK Government targets (34 per cent by 2020
and 80 per cent by 2050 from a 1990 baseline). Our progress indicates that reductions
are in line with the 2020 and 2050 targets.
The Group complied with its legal obligation in the Government’s Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy
Efficiency Scheme (“CRC”) by submitting its Annual Report and surrender of Carbon allowances for the period
April 2012 to March 2013 within the time limit imposed by the legislation.  The Group successfully recertified
to the Carbon Trust Standard in the year.  The Group continues to report voluntarily to the “Carbon Disclosure
Project” , which includes a wider carbon management performance over time and also provides an insight for
shareholders regarding the Group’s energy, carbon and climate change impact management programme.
Marshalls has a mandatory duty to report its annual Greenhouse Gas Emissions (“GHG”) under the Companies
Act 2006 (Strategic and Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013.  Marshalls uses the GHG Protocol Corporate
Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition) and the latest DEFRA published  CO 2e conversion factors
to measure its GHG emissions.  The Group reports its scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions for its UK operations. It can
only report  CO 2 emissions for Marshalls NV, its Belgian business, as  CO 2e conversion factors are not available.
The Group audited its UK fugitive emissions during 2013 and found these to be less than 0.5 per cent of the
Group total emissions: accordingly these are excluded from the report. 
Bespoke Granite Benches, Olympic Village 35 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
This chart
illustrates the Group’s UK
absolute C0
2e
emissions in
tonnes, including transport
activities, between
2009 and 2013
Scope 1 and 2 emissions
Tonnes CO2e
80,000
60,000
40,000
20,000
0
2009 20102011 20122013
21,290
45,701
20,495
45,770
18,703
45,329
16,212
43,518
14,015
40,012
Relative CO2e per tonne production
scopes 1 and 2 (kgs CO2e per tonne)
2009 20102011 20122013
20.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
0
kgs CO2e per tonne
production output 
16.02 15.88
11.42
11.73
12.12
This chart
illustrates the Group’s  C0
2e
intensity emissions as a proportion 
of production output,  including
transport activities, between
2009 and 2013.
The disposal of our aggregates business in April 2013, which has a lower intensity of  CO 2 emissions per tonne
of production, was the main reason for the change between 2012 and 2013. The Group reports that it is
responsible for the GHG emissions of Marshalls NV.  The CO 2 emissions from Marshalls NV activities in 2013
were (absolute) 1,117 tonnes and (intensity) 11.84 kg per tonne of production. 
Marshalls publishes its environmental key performance indicator (“KPI”) performance for the financial year in
a separate document, the Marshalls’ Environmental KPI 2014 Report. This covers our energy performance in
more detail, together with reporting of our Environmental Governance, Policies, Management and key
environmental impact areas such as waste, water and packaging. The Environmental KPI 2014 Report also
includes details of our work with internationally recognised expert bodies such as the Carbon Trust, the Wildlife
Trust and the Woodland Trust (see www.marshalls.co.uk/EnvKPI2014).
This section of the Annual Report has been audited by a qualified verifier on behalf of BSI.  On the basis of the
work undertaken, the GHG emissions statement above is considered to be a fair reflection of the Group’s
performance during 2013 and contains no misleading information.
Scope 2
Scope 1 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 36
Employees
Our success depends on our people. Our Statement of Values and Principles, which sets the standard
for all employees, gives guidance on business practice, employee relations and equality of opportunity
and emphasises the importance of trust, honesty and integrity, leadership, ownership and excellence
in everything we do. 
Equality and Diversity
In our recruitment and selection processes we recognise the benefit of diversity within our workforce. We are
committed to promoting and maintaining a working environment based on mutual respect, where individual
talent is recognised and valued, and to providing training designed to raise levels of awareness and sensitivity
to matters of equality and dignity at work. We have fair and merit-based employment policies and we adhere
to relevant legislation including measures for the effective prevention of discrimination against individuals
with protected characteristics under the 2010 Equality Act.  We welcome and give full and fair consideration
to applications from individuals with recognised disabilities and will ensure they are provided with equal
opportunity for employment and career development. Wherever reasonably practicable, training is offered
and adjustments are made to ensure that employees with disabilities or those who become disabled, are not
disadvantaged in the workplace.
Our total workforce was 2,079 as at 31 December 2013, and the gender balance breaks down broadly as
follows:
Male Female
Total Workforce 85% 15%
Senior Managers 86% 14%
Directors 100% 0%
We believe that the high proportion of male employees is due to the Sector in which we operate, the
manufacture of construction materials, where there have traditionally been fewer female applicants for jobs.
In striving for a better workplace for all, we expect to make a positive impact towards improving gender
balance. Our approach to diversity at Board level is explained in the Corporate Governance Report.
Employee Engagement
There is a dedicated resource within the Marshalls HR team focusing specifically on co-ordinating and framing
our engagement activities through interaction with local management teams and employee focus groups.
We communicate the Group’s financial results, performance and overall direction by means of our internal
intranet, monthly newsletter, site notice boards and regular face to face briefings between senior management
and various employee groups. Through our employee “Options” platform we offer a wide range of employee-
focused benefits, including Childcare Vouchers, and we also offer access to other benefits such as “Cycle to
Work” schemes from time to time.
In 2013, the Group participated for the third successive year in the Best Companies Workplace Engagement
Survey.  Almost 70 per cent of all employees participated, a notable increase on 2012 and 2011. The results
showed continued progress against previous workplace engagement targets, and provide valuable data and
employee commentary on all areas of the business where focused action plans can then be developed to
drive improvements in the coming year. 
We operate a structured consultative and collaborative interaction with recognised trades unions and with
our broader employee base. In 2013 a 3 year agreement covering pay and employment terms throughout the
period 2013 – 2015, was successfully negotiated with elected representatives and full time officers, thereby
establishing a significant degree of certainty in terms of employment costs during 2014 - 2015.  37 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
New, more flexible employment practices and deployment of human resources have been agreed across
selected sites with trades unions and employees. This is designed to respond to increased levels of demand
for product across our manufacturing sites and to provide greater alignment of our working practices with
customer requirements.  The Group’s “Dignity at Work” programme, designed to raise awareness of the dangers
of bullying and harassment in the workplace, is proactively communicated and universally well-received across
Group sites.
This joint collaboration with recognised trades unions and ACAS will continue into 2014.  The Group’s “Serious
Concerns Policy” , which is displayed on the intranet and at all sites, provides a framework for employees to
raise any matters of concern confidentially and securely and ensures that any matters raised are properly
investigated.
Training and Development
Marshalls re-launched its Development Review process during 2012 and this has been extended throughout
2013. The process provides an opportunity for all employees to have a one-to-one discussion with their
manager, covering work objectives, performance, personal development and career aspirations.  This is
supported by an on-line programme of training and awareness-building, designed to focus on the importance
and quality of these conversations and open dialogues between employees.  Training modules are delivered
online and by means of site-based toolbox talks.  There is a continuous programme across Group sites to
support the development of Marshalls’ employees through NVQ accreditation and the Group’s commitment
to “Investors in People” continued to progress in 2013 with the successful accreditation of our Street Furniture
business.  
Demelza House Children’s Hospice, Sittingbourne Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 38
Health and Safety
Marshalls remains committed to meeting the highest safety standards for all its employees, to reinforce
and develop its safety processes, and to develop a competent workforce with a view to achieving long
term improvement gains, and this remains a key priority for the business.
The Group continues to strive to improve the quality and safety of the working environment for employees.
Achievement of annual Health and Safety improvement targets is directly linked to the remuneration of the
Executive Directors and senior management, as explained in the Remuneration Committee Report. 
Our Safety, Health and Incident Prevention ("SHIP") teams, consisting of employee representatives and
managers, are the cornerstone of the safety management system at site level, and meet regularly to support
and develop our safety programme and objectives. The Group’s operating sites have been progressively
implementing Integrated Management Registration systems accredited by the British Standards Institution
incorporating accreditation to OHSAS (“Occupational Health and Safety Accreditation Standard”) 18001:2007.
At the end of 2013 all but 3 operational sites within the Group held a BS OHSAS (18001:2007) registration,
with 2 further sites scheduled for registration in 2014. Training throughout the year focused on the
development of managers and supervisors to proactively manage health and safety in the workplace through
visible felt leadership. 
The Group has a published Health and Safety Policy which sets out the principles regarding the health and
safety of employees, and their application throughout the business. Health and Safety performance is
monitored by the Board on a monthly basis, with David Sarti being the nominated Director with Board
responsibility for Health and Safety. 
The headline target for 2013 was a 10 per cent reduction in days lost resulting from workplace incidents against
2012. The actual reductions achieved were:
• 14.8 per cent reduction in days lost resulting from workplace incidents (Table 1 and Figure 4). 
• 5.6 per cent reduction in all incident frequency rate.
• 12.9 per cent reduction in lost time incidents (“LTI’s”) recorded (Table 1 and Figures 1 and 2 respectively).
• 41.0 per cent reduction in incidents reportable to the HSE under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and
Dangerous Occurrence Regulations (“RIDDOR”) (Table 1 and Figure 3).
The primary target for 2014 will again be a 10 per cent reduction year on year in days lost resulting from
workplace accidents. Table 1 below shows the KPIs used by the Group to monitor performance, and progress
against those KPIs over the last 5 years.
Incident Frequency and Severity
Rates (per 100,000 hrs worked) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
All Incidents 10.43 9.49 8.32 6.95 6.56
All Lost Time Incidents 2.16 1.60 1.55 1.40 1.22
All RIDDORs 1.11 0.94 0.81 0.61 0.36
All Days Lost 25.18 14.76 20.44 13.45 11.46
Average headcount 2,464 2,391 2,456 2,252 2,055
Table 1 30.00
25.00
20.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
0.00
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Lost Time Incident Severity Rate
1.20
1.00
0.80
0.60
0.40
0.20
0.00
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Reportables Incident Frequency Rate
2.50
2.00
1.50
1.00
0.50
0.00
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate
12.00
10.00
8.00
6.00
4.00
2.00
0.00
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Incident Frequency Rate
• 14.8 per cent reduction in days lost resulting from
workplace incidents 
• 5.6 per cent reduction in all incident frequency rate 
• 12.9 per cent reduction in lost time incidents (L TI’s) recorded 
• 41.0 per cent reduction in incidents reportable to the HSE
39 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Figure 1 Figure 2
Figure 3 Figure 4
Total Incidents per 100,000 hrs Lost Time Incidents per 100,000 hrs
Reportables Incident Frequency Rate Days Lost per 100,000 hrs Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 40
Review of the Year
Trading Summary
Revenue
Continuing revenue for the year ended 31 December 2013 was £307.4 million (2012: £300.9 million) which
represented an increase of 2.1 per cent. 
An analysis of revenue by end market is summarised in the table below:
Public Sector and Commercial
In the Public Sector and Commercial end market, revenue increased by 0.9 per cent on a continuing basis
compared with 2012 reflecting the anticipated improved market conditions in the second half. Working
conditions in the first quarter of 2013 were extremely difficult due to a prolonged spell of very cold weather.
Sales to the Public Sector and Commercial end market now represent approximately 63 per cent of Group
sales.
Commercial order intake has been encouraging with the Group securing its largest ever natural stone paving
order in Manchester and 2 significant export orders for street furniture in Saudi Arabia and Qatar. Stone
cladding, which is a relatively new area of focus for the Group, is a particular growth area and Marshalls is
supplying stone for a new prestigious office building in the City of London. Commercial work from rail and
new house building is also increasing, albeit from historically low levels. Water management remains a major
focus area and in September 2013 the Group launched a re-designed, comprehensive range of linear drainage
products which should appeal to Local Authorities and property developers.
Domestic
In the Domestic end market, revenue increased by 1.6 per cent. Sales to the UK Domestic end market now
represent approximately 32 per cent of Group sales. 
Revenue £’m change
(%)
2012 300.9
Price increases to recover costs 6.3 2.1
Volume and mix - UK (2.9) (1.0)
Organic expansion of International 3.1 1.0
2013 307.4 2.1
2013 2012 change
Analysis of sales by end market £’m £’m %
Public Sector and Commercial 191.7 189.9 0.9
UK Domestic 99.2 97.6 1.6
International 16.5 13.4 22.9
307.4 300.9 2.1
% %
Public Sector and Commercial 62.5 63.1
UK Domestic 32.1 32.4
International 5.4 4.5 41 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Installer order books at the end of February 2014 were 9.3 weeks (February 2013: 7.8 weeks), compared with
11.0 weeks at the end of October 2013. Although the figure has fallen slightly over the last few months, this
represents the highest sustained level for many years and the Group continues to receive good feedback from
its customers and installers for the consistency and quality of service. Although the GfK’s Consumer Confidence
index remains negative, it is significantly improved from this time last year. 
During 2013 the Group has continued to focus on innovation in order to develop areas of particular sales
opportunity and to strengthen further the Marshalls’ brand. In 2012, the Group launched its new cobble effect
driveway product. This has utilised patented technology developed by the Group’s Belgian business and is
the market’s first genuinely new driveway product for a decade. Sales in 2013 were £1.2 million, a significant
increase from £0.2 million in the whole of the prior year. Utilising this technology Marshalls has further new
products to launch over the next few years and the product’s technical strength means that it is potentially
suitable for both Commercial and Domestic applications.
International
Sales to International markets increased by £3 million, or 22.9 per cent, to £16.5 million.  Despite very poor
weather conditions in Belgium in the first quarter of 2013 and difficult trading conditions in Western Europe,
continued progress has been made in developing the International business which now represents 5 per cent
of  Group sales.  Despite the Group's increased revenue the International business is not yet profitable as
contribution from this revenue growth has been offset by revenue investment in the operational infrastructure
which will be necessary to support further expansion for the long term.
The Belgian business provides a physical stock location in mainland Europe from which to supply the Group’s
specialist product portfolio. Marshalls continues to expand its geographical reach and to extend its
International supply chains and routes to market.
Cobble Effect Driveway System, Basalt Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 42
Operating profit
Operating profit from continuing operations was £16.1 million (2012: £12.9 million, before operational
restructuring costs and asset impairments). EBITDA from continuing operations was £30.2 million (2012: £28.1
million, before operational restructuring costs and asset impairments). 
Sale of quarries and associated aggregates businesses
On 30 April 2013 the Group completed the sale of quarries and associated aggregates businesses to Breedon
Aggregates England Limited for an initial cash consideration at completion of £17.5 million. On 23 August
2013 additional consideration of £1.2 million was received following the satisfactory fulfilment of a post
completion condition relating to the commissioning of a sand extraction plant.
The revenue generated from these operations in the period to disposal on 30 April 2013 was £3.0 million.  For
the year ended 31 December 2012 the operating profit generated from the operations at these quarries was
£1.1 million, based on annual turnover of £10.0 million, of which £8.8 million came from sales outside the
Group. The operations have been treated as discontinued in these results. The post-tax profit from discontinued
operations in the year ended 31 December 2013 was £0.5 million, which included a net profit on disposal of
£0.3 million. The disposal has enabled the Group to improve materially on its target net debt to EBITDA ratio
of two times by the end of 2013. The net debt to EBITDA ratio at 31 December 2013 is 1.2 times.
First half / second half phasing
The following table summarises the relative performance of the second half of 2013 compared with that for
the six months ended 30 June 2013. The table illustrates the improvement in the second half of 2013 with
revenue increasing by 9 per cent and operating profit increasing by 54 per cent compared with the comparable
six month period in 2012. 
2013 2012* Change
Continuing Operations £’m £’m %
EBITDA* 30.2 28.1 7.7
Depreciation / amortisation (14.1) (15.2)
Operating profit* 16.1 12.9 25.2
*before operational restructuring costs and asset impairments
2013 2012* Change 2013 2012
First half / Second half phasing £’m £’m % % %
Revenue
First half 156.5 163.1 (4.0) 51 54
Second half 150.9 137.8 9.5 49 46
Total 307.4 300.9 2.1
Operating profit
First half 9.8 8.8 11.4 61 68
Second half 6.3 4.1 53.7 39 32
Total 16.1 12.9 25.2
*before operational restructuring costs and asset impairments 43 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Profit Margins
The Group has continued to strengthen its market position and trading margins are improving. During 2012,
the Group undertook a major operational restructuring exercise in order to improve financial and operating
flexibility. This programme of cost reduction and cash realisation measures is now complete and continues to
deliver positive results. The strategy combined established and new initiatives to deliver growth and these
have been delivering market outperformance. Manufacturing output could be increased by 25 per cent
without the need for any significant capital investment and, as demand is improving, output is being increased. 
Operating profit was £16.1 million with a resulting operating margin of 5.2 per cent (2012: 4.3 per cent).
Sales price increases realised £6.3 million in additional revenue, which exceeded the impact of cost inflation
in the year by £2.4 million. Operating margin improved by 0.7 per cent. 
In Public Sector and Commercial sales prices were up 3 per cent and volume and mix were down approximately
2 per cent. Within Domestic, the Group increased the majority of its sales prices by around 3 per cent. At the
same time the Group lowered the price of a very small number of key products, resulting in a net sales price
increase of 1 per cent. Sales volume in Domestic was marginally up, compared with 2012, by around 1 per
cent. 
Volume variances were negligible and sales mix was generally adverse in the year.  Firstly, more new housing
sites opened up increasing the need for more standard flag and kerb products.   Secondly, Public Sector capital
projects contain a higher proportion of value added products and the present lack of Government spend has
adversely affected mix.  The cost reduction initiatives arising from the reorganisation of operations in 2012
improved profit in 2013 by £4.9 million and this improved margin by 1.6 per cent. This was mainly headcount
reduction and depreciation.  When markets improve, there continues to be a real opportunity to benefit from
improved operational gearing in sales and production levels and from the lower cost base.
Operational developments
The Group has excellent relationships with its customers. This is delivering additional sales and good progress
is being made with the many growth initiatives.
The Group’s industry leading standards remained high in 2013 giving a combined customer service measure
of 98 per cent (2012: 97 per cent). Marshalls continues to receive good feedback from its customers and
installers for the consistency and quality of its products and service.
Movement in
Operating Margin
Margin Analysis Revenue profit impact
£’m £’m %
2012* 300.9 12.9 4.3
Net gain on property disposals 0.0 (1.8) (0.6)
Sub-total 300.9 11.1 3.7
Price increases to recover costs 6.3 2.4 0.7
Volume and mix – UK (2.9) (0.9) (0.3)
Impact of cost reduction initiatives 0.0 4.9 1.6
Organic expansion of International 3.1 (1.4) (0.5)
2013 307.4 16.1 5.2
*before operational restructuring costs and asset impairments Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 44
Capital investment in property, plant and equipment in
2013 totalled £5.5 million (2012: £8.3 million). This
compares with depreciation of £13.5 million (2012: £14.8
million).  The Group will continue to invest selectively in
innovation to deliver new  products and improvement
projects that reinforce its market leading position. These
strengths support the Group’s  medium term growth
ambitions and, in addition to the existing routes to
market, a number of other markets have been identified
that are opening up new opportunities for both existing
and new products. Research and development
expenditure in the year ended 31 December 2013
amounted to £2.8 million (2012: £2.4 million).
Earnings per share
Basic EPS from continuing operations was 6.94 pence
(2012: 5.52 pence, before operational restructuring costs
and asset impairments) per share, an increase of 25.7 per
cent. EPS from total operations was 7.20 pence (2012:
loss of 2.91 pence).
Net financial expenses 
Net finance costs were £3.1 million (2012: £3.6 million)
and interest was covered 5.3 times (2012: 3.6 times
before operational restructuring costs and asset
impairments). External charges, totalling £3.7 million,
have been partially offset by an IAS 19 notional interest
credit of £0.6 million (2012: £0.7 million) in relation to the
Group’s Pension Scheme. The IAS 19 notional interest
comprised interest on obligations under the defined
benefit section of the Pension Scheme being more than
offset by the expected return on Scheme assets. 
Taxation
The effective tax rate, from continuing operations, was 0.5
per cent (2012: credit of 16.3 per cent, before operational
restructuring costs and asset impairments) and continued
to benefit from the reduction in the rate of corporation
tax and a credit arising on the finalisation of prior year tax
computations. An additional deferred tax credit of £2.6
million has arisen as reductions in the rate of corporation
tax to 21 per cent by April 2014 and 20 per cent by April
2015 were substantively enacted, following the granting
of Royal Assent in July 2013. These factors have given rise
to only a nominal tax charge in the year. The Group has
paid £0.8 million of corporation tax during the year.
Deferred tax of £3.7 million in relation to the actuarial loss
arising on the Defined Benefit section of the Pension
Scheme in the year has been taken to the Consolidated
Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Jura Grey Limestone, Classical Flagstones 45 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Balance Sheet
Net assets at 31 December 2013 were £175.4 million (2012: £183.6 million). 
The Group continues to keep a tight control of receivables and debtor days remain industry leading due to
continued close control of credit management procedures. The Group maintains credit insurance which
provides excellent intelligence to minimise the number and value of bad debts and ultimately provides
compensation if bad debts are incurred. The Group's UK inventory reduction programme has led to a reduction
of nearly £2.8 million despite increased levels of activity.
Risk management has been a key focus for the Group’s Pension Scheme over recent years and the actions the
Group has taken have reduced actuarial volatility and risk.  In accordance with the Scheme specific funding
and recovery plan, the Group made cash contributions of £5.6 million into the Scheme in the year ended 31
December 2013. The fair value of the Pension Scheme assets at 31 December 2013 was £258.6 million (2012:
£254.8 million) and the present value of the Scheme liabilities is £262.9 million (2012: £246.6 million) and this
has given rise to an accounting deficit of £4.3 million (2012: £8.2 million surplus) at the balance sheet date.
These changes have resulted in an actuarial loss, net of deferred taxation, of £15.0 million (2012: £7.0 million)
and this has been recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. In the year ended 31
December 2013 the AA corporate bond rate reduced from 4.7 per cent to 4.6 per cent and the values have
been determined by the Scheme Actuary using assumptions in line with current market levels.
Analysis of net debt
At 31 December 2013 net debt was £35.6 million (2012: £63.5 million) resulting in gearing of 20.3 per cent
(2012: 34.6 per cent). This reduction is due to the cash proceeds from the sale of quarries and the associated
aggregates business and to the close control of inventory and the effective management of working capital.
Working capital has successfully released cash in the year of £5.1 million. Cash management continues to be
a high priority and the Group remains committed to realising value from surplus properties. 
2013 2012
Group Balance Sheet £’m £’m
Fixed assets 198.1 217.7
Current assets 120.8 116.7
Current liabilities (74.2) (64.4)
Non-current liabilities (65.0) (94.6)
Sub-total 179.7 175.4
Employee benefits (4.3) 8.2
Net assets 175.4 183.6
Net debt (35.6) (63.5)
Net debt : EBITDA 1.2 2.3
2013 2012
Analysis of net debt £’m £’m
Cash and cash equivalents 17.7 11.1
Bank loans < 12 months (3.4) -
Bank loans > 12 months (49.7) (74.3)
Finance leases (0.2) (0.3)
(35.6) (63.5) Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 46
Borrowing facilities
The Group continues its policy of having significant committed bank facilities in place with a positive spread
of medium term maturities.
In July 2013, following the steady reduction in net debt, and especially following the disposal of the aggregates
businesses, the Group cancelled a £25 million loan facility in order to re-align the unused headroom against
available facilities. The Group continues its policy of having significant committed facilities in place with a
positive spread of medium term maturities. In August 2013, the Group renewed its short term working capital
facilities with RBS.
The strategy is to retain significant committed facilities and the Group has no immediate need to renew its
committed facilities.  The total bank borrowing facilities at 31 December 2013 amounted to £145.0 million
(2012: £170.0 million) of which £92.0 million (2012: £95.7 million) remained unutilised.  In addition, the Group
has a seasonal working capital facility of £20.0 million which is available between 1 February and 31 August
each year.  The Group has significant headroom in its facilities with year end debt at 31 December 2013
representing approximately 25 per cent of the available facilities. 
Interest cover and net debt to EBITDA covenants in the facilities were very comfortably met at the year end.
The bank facilities are unsecured save for inter-company guarantees between the Group and its subsidiary
undertakings in favour of the facility banks.
The Group has a robust balance sheet with a good range of medium term bank facilities available to fund
investment initiatives to generate growth as market conditions improve.
220
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Dec 2013 Dec 2014*
On demand: Seasonal (Feb to Aug)
On demand: Overdrafts (all year)
Committed
Net debt
*Note 2014 based on
  consensus information
Greenmoor Rustic Yorkstone, Civic and Cultural Quarter, Doncaster 47 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Cash generation
The Group continues to be cash generative.  In the year ended 31 December 2013 net cash flow from operating
activities was £27.1 million (2012: £24.7 million) after deducting £0.9 million (2012: £7.4 million) of one-off
cash expenditure in relation to operational restructuring and works closure costs paid and pension
contributions of £5.6 million (2012: £3.6 million). There has been a net cash inflow of £2.2 million from
monetary working capital.
Total investment on capital expenditure in the year was £6.1 million (2012: £9.5 million). The majority of this
expenditure was invested in the replacement of existing assets, in business improvements and new process
technology. Proceeds from the sale of targeted property assets contributed £0.2 million (2012: £8.6 million).
Dividend payments in the year were £10.3 million (2012: £10.3 million). 
2013 2012
Group Cash Flow £’m £’m
Net cash from operating activities (before
pension contributions) 32.7 28.3
Pension contributions (5.6) (3.6)
Net cash from operating activities 27.1 24.7
Net cash from investing activities 11.1 (0.7)
Net cash from financing activities (10.3) (10.4)
Movement in net debt in the period 27.9 13.6
Net debt at beginning of period (63.5) (77.1)
Net debt at end of period (35.6) (63.5)
2013 2012
Analysis of cash utilisation £’m £’m
Free cash flow 27.1 24.7
Capital expenditure (6.1) (9.5)
Proceeds from sale of property assets 0.2 8.6
Net proceeds from disposal of discontinued operations 17.0 0.2
Finance leases and other - (0.1)
Cash returned to shareholders (10.3) (10.3)
Movement in net debt 27.9 13.6
Celestia, Kingswood College, Hull
Martyn Coffey
Chief Executive Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 48
Directors’ Details
Andrew Allner - Chairman (2,3)  
Term of Office: Appointed to the Board in July 2003 and appointed as Chairman of
the Board on 12 May 2010. Last re-elected in May 2013. Also chairs the Nomination
Committee.
Independent: Yes (on appointment as Chairman)
Skills and experience: Andrew Allner is Chairman of The Go-Ahead Group plc. He is
also a Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit
Committee at AZ Electronic Materials SA, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the
Audit Committee at Northgate plc, and Non-Executive Chairman of Fox Marble
Holdings plc and was a Non-Executive Director of CSR plc until 31 December 2013. He was previously Group Finance
Director of RHM plc, taking a lead role in its flotation in July 2005 on the London Stock Exchange.  Prior to joining
RHM plc, Andrew Allner was CEO of Enodis plc, and he has also served in senior executive positions with Dalgety
plc, Amersham International plc and Guinness plc.  He is a former partner of Price Waterhouse and is a Chartered
Accountant.  He is a graduate of Oxford University.
Ian Burrell - Finance Director 
Term of Office: Appointed to the Board in June 2001. Last re-elected in May 2013.
Independent: No
Skills and experience: Ian Burrell joined the Group in 2001. He is a Chartered
Accountant and has held a number of senior financial positions in industry, including
that of Group Finance Director at Cornwell Parker plc. He is also Chairman of the
Trustees of the Company’s Pension Scheme. He was appointed as Chair of the Board
of Leeds Trinity University in 2013, having served as a Director and Chair of the Audit
Committee since 2010. 
Martyn Coffey - Chief Executive 
Term of Office: Joined the Company and appointed to the Board on 10 September
2013. 
Independent: No
Skills and experience: Martyn Coffey was previously Divisional Chief Executive Officer
of BDR Thermea Group BV, a leading manufacturer and distributor of domestic and
industrial heating and hot water systems operating in 70 countries and with a turnover
of €1.8 billion, formed in 2009 from the merger of Baxi and De Dietrich Remeha.  At
BDR Thermea he was a member of the Management Board with responsibility for 65
per cent of the Group, including the UK, France, Germany, Iberia and Italy.  Prior to the merger, he was Chief Executive
of Baxi Group, the third largest supplier of space and water heating products in Europe, having joined from Pirelli
where he spent 14 years in the UK, Australia and North America, most recently as Managing Director and a member
of the UK Board. He became a director of the Mineral Products Association on 1 November 2013. Martyn has a BSc
in Mathematics.
Alan Coppin - Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee (1,2,3)
Term of Office: Appointed to the Board in May 2010, and last re-elected in May 2013. 
Independent: Yes
Skills and experience: Alan Coppin has extensive cross-sector governance and
management experience. He is Trustee and Chairman of the Campaign Board for the
RAF Museums, and Crown Representative in the Cabinet Office (Efficiency and Reform
Group). He is also a Patron of the Windsor Leadership Trust and a Director of The Coffee
Mob, associated with the charity Centrepoint.  His previous roles include chairmanship
of the Prince’s Foundation for the Built Environment and Non-Executive directorships at Berkeley Homes plc, Capital
and Regional plc and Carillion plc. 49 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Mark Edwards  - Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee
(1,2,3)
Term of Office: Appointed to the Board in May 2010, and last re-elected in May 2013.  
Independent: Yes
Skills and experience: Mark Edwards is a Chartered Accountant with a strong financial
background and wide UK and international experience, especially in the manufacturing
sector. He is Chief Executive of the AIM Aviation group of companies, and was formerly
Chief Executive of the Baxi Group. He has also served as Vice President of the
Construction Products Association. 
Tim Pile - Non-Executive Director (1,2,3)
Term of Office: Appointed to the Board in October 2010 and last re-elected in May
2013.  
Independent: Yes
Skills and experience: Tim Pile is the Executive Chairman of Cogent Elliott, the leading
independent marketing agency, and was formerly Chief Executive Officer of Sainsbury's
Bank.  He has held a number of senior roles in the financial services and marketing
industries and has wide business experience.  Tim is a Non-Executive Director of The
Royal Orthopaedic Hospital, and President of the Greater Birmingham Chambers of
Commerce.  He is also a Director of the Library of Birmingham and a Governor of Bromsgrove School.  Previous Non-
Executive Director roles include Cancer Research UK.
David Sarti - Chief Operating Officer 
T erm of Office: Appointed to the Board in November 2004. Last re-elected in May 2013.
Independent: No
Skills and experience: Joined the Group in March 2001 as Group Operations Director
having previously been a business strategy consultant with Accenture.  He is a
Chartered Director. He is also a Non-Executive Director of a private group of companies
in the distribution and retail sector, and serves on the Board of the British Pre-Cast
Concrete Federation Limited. 
Graham Holden – Chief Executive (until 10 October 2013) 
Term of Office: Appointed to the Board in 1992. Last re-elected in May 2013. Served as Chief Executive until 10
October 2013, when he retired from the Board.
Independent: No
Skills and experience: Graham Holden joined the Group in 1986. He is a Chartered Accountant and graduate of
the Harvard Advanced Management Programme. Having served as a Non-Executive Director of KCOM Group Plc
since 2007, he will become its Chairman in April 2014. He served as the Prince’s Ambassador to the Yorkshire and
Humber region between 2009 and 2012, and only recently stepped down from the Chairmanship of the Yorkshire
and Humber Regional Advisory Board of Business in the Community. He is a Visiting Fellow in the School of
Management at Cranfield University. 
Cathy Baxandall - Group Company Secretary 
Skills and experience: Joined Marshalls as Group Company Secretary and Group
Counsel in 2008. A graduate of Oxford University, she completed her legal training
in the City and was a partner in a national law firm before moving in-house.
Previous roles include Company Secretary and Head of Legal at Silentnight Group,
Group Counsel, Company Secretary and Head of HR at Thistle Hotels plc and Group
Company Secretary at Jacuzzi (UK). She is a charity Trustee and Board member of
Ilkley Literature Festival, the Open College of the Arts and Yorkshire Youth & Music.
Key: (1) – Member of the Audit Committee   (2) – Member of the Remuneration Committee   (3) – Member of the Nomination Committee Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 50
Corporate Governance Statement
Chairman’s introduction
Marshalls is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all its activities.  The
Board is accountable to shareholders for good corporate governance, and seeks to promote consistently high
standards of governance throughout the Group which are recognised and understood by all.
Good governance involves good and effective leadership, robust systems and processes that are regularly
tested, and a good understanding of risk and risk appetite.  The Board seeks to add value through constructive
dialogue and challenge, engagement with shareholders and other stakeholders, and with a strong focus on
the strategic agenda.
This statement, which is part of the Directors’ Report, has been prepared in accordance with the principles of
the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012 (the “Code”) which the Board fully supports.
This statement explains how the Board has applied the principles of the Code, and supplements the
information in the Strategic Report on pages 14 to 47.
Andrew Allner
Chairman
Compliance with the Code
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2013 the Company has complied with the relevant provisions of
the Code in all material respects.
The paragraphs below, together with the Reports of the Audit and Remuneration Committees on pages 63 to
94, describe how the provisions of the Code are applied within the Company. 
Board Leadership and Effectiveness
Code Provision A.1: The Role of the Board
The Board comprises an independent Non-Executive Chairman, 3 Executive Directors and 3 Non-Executive
Directors who are equally responsible for the proper stewardship and leadership of the Company.  Their
biographical details are on pages 48 to 49.
There is a written Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, which is reviewed annually. The Board has
delegated specific responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.  Other Board
Committees are established periodically for particular purposes.  For example, during the year, Board
Committees were established to approve dividend payments and Preliminary and Half-yearly announcements,
and in connection with the appointment of the new Chief Executive.
The Board reviews at each regular Board Meeting the monthly financial results of the Group with reference to
the detailed annual business plan and budget. The Board also considers forward trends and performance
against other key indicators, including areas where performance departs from forecasts and on contingency
plans. The Board regularly reviews and discusses medium and long-term strategy. Meetings with members of
senior management are included within the Board programme to update the Board on business and strategic
issues.
The Group’s reporting structure below Board level is designed so that all decisions are made by the most
appropriate people in a timely manner.  The Directors and senior management are tasked with the delivery of
targets approved by the Board and for the implementation of Group strategy and policy across the Group.
Management teams report to members of the Executive Committee. This committee currently consists of  51 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
7 senior managers, including the 3 Executive Directors, and the Board receives regular updates from this
committee in relation to business issues and developments. These policies and procedures collectively enable
the Board to make informed decisions on a range of key issues including those relating to strategy and risk
management. The interaction between these bodies is illustrated below.
The regular Board and Committee meetings held during 2013 are shown below, with attendance. Additional
meetings were held during the year for specific purposes, including strategy planning, succession planning,
regulatory matters and training. Non-Executive Directors also made site visits. 
Audit Remuneration Nomination
Board Committee Committee Committee
(7 meetings) (4 meetings) (4 meetings) (1 meeting)
Andrew Allner
(Non-executive) 7 4 4 1
Ian Burrell 7 N/A N/A N/A
Martyn Coffey 2 N/A N/A N/A
Alan Coppin
(Non-executive) 7 4 4 1
Mark Edwards
(Non-executive) 7 4 4 1
Graham Holden 6 N/A N/A N/A
Tim Pile
(Non-executive) 7 4 4 1
David Sarti 7 N/A N/A N/A
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Board
Group / Corporate
Support
Operational
and
Functional
Management
Executive
Committee
Executive
Directors
Audit
Committee Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 52
Graham Holden attended all scheduled meetings up to the date of his retirement from the Board, and Martyn
Coffey attended the 2 scheduled meetings following his appointment in September 2013. The Chief Executive
and Finance Director are also usually invited to attend Audit Committee meetings, although the Audit
Committee also meets the auditor without any Executive Director being present. The Chief Executive is invited
to attend Remuneration Committee meetings as appropriate. The Company Secretary is also Secretary to the
Board Committees and attends meetings for this purpose.
In 2014 there are 7 Board, 4 Audit Committee, 4 Remuneration Committee and 1 Nomination Committee
meetings scheduled, and Board members are expected to participate in additional strategy meetings and site
visits.
The Company maintains Directors’ and Officers’ Liability insurance cover to cover legal proceedings against
its Directors and Officers acting in that capacity.
Conflicts of Interest
The Board has powers to authorise and has adopted procedures for the authorisation of existing situations
and for considering (and authorising where appropriate) new situations which may give rise to a conflict of
interest on the part of any Director. These are recorded in a Conflicts Register. Currently, the only situations
authorised are the holding by Directors of directorships or similar offices with companies or organisations not
connected with the Company, and the Board has not, in relation to any of those situations, identified any
actual conflict of interest. The Nomination Committee reviews the Conflicts Register at least annually and has
delegated authority to make recommendations to the Board on any situation notified to it in future. 
Code provision A.2: Division of Responsibilities
Code provisions A.3, A.4: Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive are held by separate individuals with a clear division of
responsibilities: each role has written Terms of Reference.  The Chairman leads the Board and sets its agenda,
ensuring that all Directors, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, are able to make an effective contribution.
He ensures that there is a constructive relationship between the Executive and the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for all operational matters which include the implementation of strategy
and policies approved by the Board.  
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors were independent on appointment, and the Board considers
each of the Non-Executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement in accordance with the
principles set out in Code Provision B.1.1. At least once a year the Chairman holds a meeting with the Non-
Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
Alan Coppin is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. He is available to shareholders if they have
concerns which are not resolved through the normal channels of contact. He is also available as a sounding
board for the Chairman and an intermediary for other Non-Executive Directors.  The Non-Executive Directors
meet annually without the Chairman being present to appraise the Chairman’s performance.  
Directors are able to ensure that any concerns they raise about the running of the Company or a proposed
action is recorded in the Board minutes.  If a Non-Executive Director did have any such concerns on resignation
the Chairman would invite that Director to provide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
Code Provisions B.1, B.2: Board Composition and Appointments to the Board
The Board considers it is of sufficient size and has an appropriate balance of skills and experience to meet the
needs of the business, and the Non-Executive Directors are all independent in character and judgement. 53 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
The Board appreciates that Board diversity is likely to enhance its performance and this is a key factor when
seeking candidates for future Board appointments. 
The Company’s Articles of Association contain powers of removal, appointment, election and re-election of
Directors and provide that at least one-third of the Board must retire at each Annual General Meeting and
each Director must retire by rotation every 3 years. In practice, the Company requires all Directors to stand for
re-election at each Annual General Meeting. Martyn Coffey joined the Board when he joined the Company in
September 2013 as Chief Executive-designate, and Graham Holden retired from the Board in October 2013.
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the
Board.  Its Terms of Reference are available on the Company’s website at www.marshalls.co.uk, and further
details of the proceedings of the Nomination Committee are set out on pages 56 and 57 of this report.
Code Provision B.3: Commitment
On appointment Board members, in particular the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, disclose their
other commitments and agree to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their duties effectively
and ensure that these other commitments do not affect their contribution. The current Board commitments
of the Chairman and of the remaining members of the Board are identified on pages 48 and 49. The process
for recording and managing conflicts of interest is explained under “Conflicts of Interest” above.
Code Provisions B.4, B.5:  Board Development, and Information and Support
The Chairman, supported by the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, ensures that new Directors
receive full, formal, and tailored induction on joining the Board. The induction process for Martyn Coffey
included a detailed handover programme with Graham Holden, one-on-one sessions with Non-Executive
Directors and key management, briefings with external advisers and shareholders, and a programme of site
visits. All Directors receive training as part of the annual Board programme of work, and are also expected to
attend external courses and seminars as appropriate to maintain and develop their Board competencies.
During 2013 the Board received training relating to Health and Safety, and the Disclosure and Transparency
Rules, and were given presentations in relation to particular areas of the business. Training needs are identified
through the Board evaluation process or through individual reviews between the Directors and the Chairman.
Non-Executive Directors would be available to meet major shareholders if a meeting were requested.
All Directors receive regular and timely information to enable them to perform their duties, including
information on the Group’s operational and financial performance, customer service, Health and Safety
performance and forward trends. Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary
and are entitled to rely on the impartial and independent nature of that advice and those services.  The
Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and, through the
Chairman, advises the Board on Corporate Governance matters.  Both the appointment and removal of the
Company Secretary are a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Board has an approved procedure for all Directors to take independent professional advice at the
Company’s expense.  Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties,
including the option to appoint external advisers when they deem it appropriate.
Code Provision B.6: Evaluation
The Company carries out a full evaluation of Board performance and that of its 3 principal Committees
annually. The Board considered whether to use an external facilitator for the 2013 evaluation, but concluded
that the evaluation process using internal resource, led by the Company Secretary, continues to be a very
effective and robust process in which all Directors participate with a genuine desire to enhance overall Board Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 54
performance. This has demonstrably helped to improve Board effectiveness since its inception. The 2013
evaluation was conducted using a detailed questionnaire and one-to-one confidential discussions between
each of the Directors and the Company Secretary, referencing current external guidance on Board effectiveness
published by the FRC and the ABI. This included questions about the effectiveness of Executive and Non-
Executive Directors, and the performance of the Chairman. The Senior Independent Director separately
reviewed the Chairman’s performance with other Non-Executive Directors.  
The results of the evaluation were reviewed by the Chairman and the Company Secretary, and discussed by
the Board. The key themes emerging from this evaluation have been applied in developing specific Board
objectives for 2014, including updating the format of Board reporting, measures to develop diversity and
succession planning and increasing opportunities for Non-Executives to contribute expertise to specific
business initiatives. The evaluation also validated the results of the action plan for 2013 developed after the
2012 evaluation, which were believed to have improved the effectiveness of the Board.  The Board believes
this internally-managed process contains sufficient objectivity to deliver real value, but will consider whether
an externally assessed evaluation would be appropriate at the next review.
Code Principle B.7: Re-election of Directors
All Directors submit themselves annually for election at the Annual General Meeting. Martyn Coffey, having
been appointed as a Director since the 2013 Annual General Meeting, will stand for election at the 2014 Annual
General Meeting, and the remaining Board members, having last been elected at the 2013 Annual General
Meeting, will retire and stand for re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, with the exception of
Graham Holden who retired from the Board in October 2013. The process for appointment and evaluation of
the Directors are described under the Nomination Committee Report on pages 56 and 57. The current terms
of appointment of Directors are set out on pages 74 and 75, and their biographical details are shown on pages
48 and 49. 
Accountability and Audit
Code Provision C.1: Financial and Business Reporting
In the opinion of the Directors the Annual and Half-yearly Financial Statements present a fair, balanced and
understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects and provide the information necessary for
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy. The respective responsibilities
of the Directors’ and the Auditors in connection with the Financial Statements are explained in the Statement
of Directors’ Responsibilities and the Auditor’s Report on pages 57 and 58, and 95 to 97 respectively.
Code Provision C.2: Risk Management and Internal Control
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is
willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives, and for the Group’s system of internal control. Such a system
is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Code Provision C.3: Audit Committee and Auditors
The Audit Committee Report, which forms part of the Directors’ Report, provides details of how the Board
applies the Code in relation to membership, Audit Committee Terms of Reference, Audit Committee
proceedings, financial reporting, risk management and internal controls. The Report is on pages 91 to 94. 55 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Directors’ Remuneration 
Code Provisions D.1, D.2: Level and make-up of Remuneration, and procedure for developing policy
and fixing executive remuneration packages.
The Board has delegated to its Remuneration Committee responsibility for ensuring compliance with the
Code’s requirements on remuneration. The Remuneration Policy and details of Executive Directors’
remuneration are set out in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 63 to 90. The Terms of Reference
of the Remuneration Committee were reviewed during the year and are available on the Company’s website
at www.marshalls.co.uk.
Relations with shareholders
Code Provision E.1: Dialogue with Shareholders
The Board places great emphasis on maintaining good communications with shareholders.  The Chief
Executive and Finance Director meet regularly with major shareholders to discuss the Group’s performance,
strategic issues and shareholder investment objectives, and also periodically arranges site visits for investors.
During 2013, 83 such meetings were held, at which at least 47 institutional shareholders were represented.
Reports of these meetings and any shareholder communications during the year are provided to the Board.
The Board also regularly receives copies of analysts’ and brokers’ briefings. The Chairman is available to meet
major shareholders on request to discuss governance and strategy, and held a number of such meetings
during 2013. The Senior Independent Director is also available to meet shareholders separately if requested.
When appropriate, the Non-Executive Directors attend meetings or site visits with major shareholders. There
is a regular reporting and announcement schedule to ensure that matters of importance affecting the Group
are communicated to investors.
The Annual and Half-yearly Reports, together with the Marshalls website, are substantial means of
communication with all shareholders during the year.
Code Provision E.2: Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is dispatched to shareholders, together with explanatory notes or a
circular on items of special business, at least 20 working days before the meeting. It is the Company’s practice
to propose separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue including a resolution relating to the
Report and Accounts. As in previous years, the Company intends to put all resolutions to an electronic poll at
its 2014 Annual General Meeting. All Directors normally attend the meeting, including the Chairmen of the
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, who are available to answer questions.  The Board
welcomes questions from shareholders who have an opportunity to raise issues informally or formally before
or at the Annual General Meeting.  
For each resolution the proxy appointment forms provide shareholders with the option to direct their proxy
vote either for or against the resolution or to withhold their vote.  The proxy form and any announcement of
the results of a vote will make it clear that a ‘vote withheld’ is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the
calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against the resolution.
All valid proxy appointments are properly recorded and counted.  Information on the number of shares
represented by proxy, the proxy votes for and against each resolution, and the number of shares in respect of
which the vote was withheld for each resolution, together with the voting result, are given at the meeting
and made available on the Company’s website. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 56
Nomination Committee 
The Board has an established Nomination Committee whose members are the Non-Executive Directors. The
Chairman of the Board normally chairs this Committee except where it is dealing with his own re-appointment
or replacement. 
The role of the Nomination Committee includes:
• Board succession planning, including reviewing the size, composition, balance of skills and experience,
and giving due weight to the achievement of diversity in its widest sense;
• Recruitment and induction of candidates for appointment to the Board;
• Reviewing individual performance evaluation outcomes relating to Directors standing for election or re-
election in advance of the Annual General Meeting; and
• Monitoring conflicts, reviewing the Board conflicts policy, maintaining the conflicts register, and
considering any new notifications;
The Nomination Committee’s Terms of Reference are available on the Company's website
(www.marshalls.co.uk). These were reviewed by the Board in December 2013, and the performance of the
Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation process in 2013. 
The main activity of the Nomination Committee during 2013 was in connection with the recruitment of a Chief
Executive to succeed Graham Holden following his decision to retire in 2014 after 27 years with the Group
and a decade as Chief Executive. The Committee appointed an external search consultant, Lygon, to seek
suitable candidates and develop a shortlist, and the Committee then went through a detailed and intensive
assessment, resulting in the appointment of Martyn Coffey, who joined the Group in September 2013. Martyn
Coffey’s experience, qualifications and background are described on page 48. The Committee was pleased
that the timing of the appointment and Graham Holden’s retirement has allowed a smooth and well-managed
handover programme. 
The Board is supportive of the principles in the Davies Report, and has committed to the objective of greater
Board diversity. Although a process was commenced in 2012 to recruit a female Non-Executive Director, the
cost reduction initiatives and operational changes within the business during 2012 and 2013, driven by the
wider economic climate, persuaded the Committee that it would not be the right time to make such an
appointment. The Committee expects to return to the objective in 2014 and will work with external consultants
to actively seek female candidates in the context of future Board succession plans. 
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specific terms, subject to re-appointment and the Company’s
Articles of Association and subject to the Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a Director. The
current terms of appointment of the Directors are shown on pages 74 and 75. All Directors will stand for re-
election at the Company’s Annual General Meeting in May 2014. Each Non-Executive Director has been
provided with a detailed description of his role and responsibilities, and received a detailed business induction.
The other appointments held by the Non-Executive Directors have been declared to the Company in
accordance with the rules on conflicts adopted by the Board, and none is regarded as likely to give rise to any
conflict with the Board.
The Nomination Committee evaluates the performance of any Director who is retiring by rotation and seeking
re-election. In order for a re-election proposal to proceed, the Committee should be able to conclude that the
Director continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role, following which the Nomination 57 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Committee makes its recommendation to the Board. In the circular to shareholders accompanying the
resolution to re-elect, there is an explanation from the Chairman as to why the Director should be re-elected
and confirming that a formal performance evaluation has taken place. The Committee also carries out a
performance evaluation in the event of a proposal to re-appoint a Director on expiry of their current
appointment. 
It is the Company's policy that Executive Directors can only hold one external company Non-Executive
Directorship. Voluntary service on the Governing Board of a social, trade or charitable organisation is also
permitted. Details of the external appointments held by the Executive Directors are included in the
biographical notes on pages 48 and 49.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the
Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company Financial
Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company Financial Statements for each
financial year. Under that law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union ("EU") and applicable law, and they have elected to prepare the Parent
Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss
for that period. In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements, the Directors are
required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with  IFRSs as
adopted by the EU;
• for the Parent Company Financial Statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company Financial
Statements; and
• prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that
the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the Parent Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position
of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies
Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report,
Directors' Report, Directors' Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement each of which
complies with that law and those regulations. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 58
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information
included on the Company's website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors' Report and whose names and functions
are listed on pages 48 and 49 confirm that, to the best of each of their knowledge:
• the Group Financial Statements in this Annual Report, which have been prepared in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS’s") as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretation and those
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, give a true and fair view
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group taken as a whole;
• the Parent Company’s Financial Statements in this Annual Report, which have been prepared in accordance
with United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom GAAP) and applicable law give a true and
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Parent Company; and
• the Strategic Report contained in this Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and
performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are
each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s Auditors are unaware, and each
Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant
audit information and to establish that the Company’s Auditors are aware of that information.
Going Concern
The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these Financial Statements in accordance
with “Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009” published by the
Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
Cautionary Statement and Directors’ Liability
This Annual Report 2013 has been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, and no
other persons. Neither the Company nor the Directors accept or assume any liability to any person to whom
this Annual Report is shown or into whose hands it may come except to the extent that such liability arises
and may not be excluded under English law. Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated
reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with Section
90A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
This Annual Report contains certain forward looking statements with respect to the Group’s financial condition,
results, strategy, plans and objectives. These statements are not forecasts or guarantees of future performance
and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that will occur
in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially
from those expressed, implied or forecast by these forward looking statements. All forward-looking statements
in this Annual Report are based on information known to the Group as at the date of this Annual Report and
the Group has no obligation publicly to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result
of new information or future events. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast. 59 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held at Birkby Grange at 11.00 am on Wednesday 14
May 2014 together with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed is contained in a circular to be
sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
By Order of the Board
Cathy Baxandall
Group Company Secretary
26 March 2014
Stoke Hall Sandstone, Hotel Missoni, Edinburgh Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 60
Directors' Report – Other Regulatory Information
The information required by the Listing Rules (DTR 4.1.8R) is contained in the Strategic Report and the Directors’
Report (which incorporates the Management Report). Marshalls plc is registered with company number
5100353.
The Directors of the Company are listed on pages 48 and 49. 
Political Donations: The Group made no donations during the year to any political party or political
organisation or to any independent election candidate, whether in the European Union or elsewhere (2012:
nil).
Risk Management: The Group’s risk management objectives and its approach to managing risk generally are
described in the Strategic Report on pages 28 to 31.
CO 2 Emissions: Statistics relating to the Group’s CO 2 (greenhouse gas) emissions in 2013 are included in the
Strategic Report on pages 34 and 35.
Employees: The Company’s policies in relation to disabled employees and employee involvement and
communication are explained in the Strategic Report on pages 36 and 37.
Corporate Governance: Details of how the Group complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code are set
out on pages 50 to 59.
Post-Balance Sheet Events of importance since 31 December 2013: Details of any important Group events
and developments since the financial year end 31 December 2013 are included in the Strategic Report on
pages 14 to 47.
Research and Development: Activity and likely future developments for the business are described in the
Strategic Report on pages 14 to 47.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.50 pence (2012: 3.50 pence) per share which, together with
the interim dividend of 1.75 pence (2012: 1.75 pence) per share, makes a combined dividend of 5.25 pence
(2012: 5.25 pence) per share.  Payment of the final dividend, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will
be made on 4 July 2014 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 6 June 2014. The ex-dividend
date will be 4 June 2014
The dividend paid in the year to 31 December 2013 and disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement is
5.25 pence (2012: 5.25 pence) per share being the previous year's final dividend of 3.50 pence (2012: 3.50
pence) per share and the interim dividend of 1.75 pence (2012: 1.75 pence) per share in respect of the year
ended 31 December 2012 and paid on 5 July 2013 and 6 December 2013 respectively.
Share Capital and Authority to Purchase Shares
The Company’s share capital at 1 January 2014 was 199,378,755 Ordinary Shares of 25 pence. There has been
no change between 31 December 2013 and 26 March 2014. Details of the share capital are set out in Note 22
on pages 140 to 141. 
The Company held 2,425,000 Treasury Shares on 31 December 2013. On 26 March 2014, 2,425,000 Treasury
Shares were transferred for the purposes of employee share scheme awards, with 985,905 being transferred
to participants and the balance of 1,439,095 being transferred to the Marshalls plc Employee Benefit Trust (the 61 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
"EBT") for the purposes of satisfying future awards that may vest under employee share schemes. Save as set
out below, the Ordinary Shares of the Company carry equal rights to dividends, voting and return of capital
on the winding up of the Company, as set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. There are no restrictions
on the transfer of securities in the Company and there are no restrictions on any voting rights or deadlines,
other than those prescribed by law, nor is the Company aware of any arrangement between holders of its
shares which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights, nor any arrangement
whereby a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive dividends (other than the EBT).
The EBT holds shares in the Company on trust for employees (Investment Shares) and also purchases shares
from time to time to satisfy awards granted to Directors and Senior Executives subject to the achievement of
performance targets under the LTIP. At 31 December 2013 the EBT held 1,091,269 Ordinary Shares in the
Company (2012: 1,446,563 shares) of which 188,105 represented Investment Shares beneficially owned by
LTIP participants, with the balance held in respect of future Matching and Performance Share Awards. The
decrease in holding between 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2013 was due to transfers of Investment
Shares to individuals upon the lapse of corresponding Matching Shares under the LTIP in March 2013. On 26
March 2014 the EBT acquired a total of 2,425,000 Treasury Shares from the Company and participants in the
L TIP for the purpose of satisfying L TIP awards vestry in March 2014 and future employee share scheme awards.
Details of outstanding awards under the LTIP are set out in Note 20 on pages 137 and 138. The EBT has waived
its right to receive dividends on shares that it holds beneficially in respect of future awards.  The Trustee of the
EBT exercises any voting rights on such shares in accordance with the Directors’ recommendations.
UK based employees of the Group with more than 6 months service may participate in the Marshalls plc Share
Purchase Plan.  Employees purchase Ordinary Shares in the Company with pre-tax salary. The shares are
purchased in the market and then held in Trust by Yorkshire Building Society.  Employees receive dividends
on these shares and may give voting instructions to the Trustee. 
At the Annual General Meeting in May 2013 shareholders gave authority to the Directors to purchase up to
29,523,367 shares representing approximately 14.99 per cent of the Company’s issued share capital in the
Company in the market during the period expiring at the next Annual General Meeting at a price to be
determined within certain limits. No Ordinary Shares in the Company were purchased during the year or
between 31 December 2013 and 26 March 2014 under this authority, which will expire at the Annual General
Meeting in May 2014. The Directors will seek to renew the authority at that meeting.
Contracts of Significance and Related Parties
There were no contracts of significance between any member of the Group and (a) any undertaking in which
a Director has a material interest, or (b) a controlling shareholder (other than between members of the Group).
There have been no related party transactions between any member of the Group and a related party since
the publication of the last Annual Report.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association give powers to the Board to appoint Directors. Newly appointed
Directors are required to retire and submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at the first Annual
General Meeting following their appointment. 
The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant laws
and the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association.  These include specific provisions and
restrictions regarding the Company’s power to borrow money.  Powers relating to the issuing and buying back
of shares are included in the Articles of Association and such authorities are renewed by shareholders each
year at the Annual General Meeting.
The Articles of Association may be amended by Special Resolution of the shareholders. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 62
Directors’ Indemnities
The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors in respect of their performance of their duties
as a Director of any member of the Marshalls group of companies. In addition, the Company has granted
indemnities to Martyn Coffey, Graham Holden and David Sarti in respect of their participation in and/or
membership of the governing bodies of certain third party trade representative organisations on behalf of
the Company, and to Ian Burrell in relation to his participation as a director of MPS Pension Trustees Limited,
the Trustee of the Marshalls plc Pension Scheme. The indemnities are limited to what is permitted by law and
the Company’s Articles of Association and copies are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the
Company. There were no other such indemnities in force during the year, and no payments were made under
the indemnities. 
Directors’ Interests
Details of Directors’ remuneration, interests in the share capital (or derivatives or other financial instruments
relating to those shares) of the Company and of their share-based payment awards are contained in the
Remuneration Committee Report on pages 63 to 90.
Substantial Shareholdings
As at 26 March 2014, the Company had been notified, in accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and
Transparency Rules, of the following disclosable interests of 3 per cent or more in its voting rights.
As at 26 March 2014 As at 31 December 2013
%%
Majedie Asset Management 9.36 9.60
Aviva Investors 8.88 9.02
Standard Life 6.81 5.76
Schroder Investment Management 4.79 4.70
M&G Investment Management 3.94 3.64
L&G Investment Management 3.45 3.41 63 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Remuneration Committee Report
Chairman’s Annual Statement
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to report to you on the Remuneration Committee’s activities and
priorities during 2013. We have this year prepared our report in accordance
with the new reporting regulations that took effect on 1 October 2013.
Accordingly, this Report is divided into three sections:
• This Chairman’s Annual Statement;
• Our Remuneration Policy; and
• Our Annual Remuneration Report, explaining how our remuneration policy has been implemented during
2013.
The first and third sections will be subject to an advisory vote of shareholders, while the Remuneration Policy
will be subject to shareholder approval at the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2014. 
Our remuneration policy aims to encourage behaviours that will ensure the sustainability and long term health
of the business and avoid inappropriate risk-taking, while recognising and rewarding the creation of
shareholder value. Remuneration targets are designed to support the delivery of our key strategic objectives
which are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 14 to 47. Our remuneration packages also need to be
appropriate to attract, motivate and retain talent, both at Executive Director level and throughout the business.
During the year, Graham Holden announced his intention to retire as Chief Executive. Martyn Coffey joined
the Board as his designated successor in September 2013, and became Chief Executive when Graham Holden
stepped down on 10 October 2013. Upon appointment, the Committee made an exceptional award to Martyn
Coffey under the current 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (the “L TIP”). No other introductory payment was made,
and there was no buy-out of incentives from a previous employer. Details of Martyn Coffey’s remuneration
package and LTIP award are in the Annual Remuneration Report.
The second half of 2013 also saw a long-awaited improvement in economic conditions after a slow start to
the year. Marshalls’ market-leading position, which remained strong during the downturn, has meant that we
are well placed to benefit from this improvement. Notable achievements during 2013 were the successful
disposal of certain aggregate quarries, the growth of our International sales, and our innovation programme
extending the continued success of our range of high value concrete and stone paving, sustainable urban
drainage and street furniture products. The outcome has been an enhancement of EPS (up from 5.52p to
6.94p) and a considerable improvement in Net Debt (reduced from £63.5m to £35.6m). This pleasing
performance means that, for the first time since its introduction in 2005, a modest proportion of those awards
made 3 years ago under the LTIP will vest, and there will also be an award under the annual Performance
Incentive Plan (the “PIP”) to reflect achievement of a proportion of the 2013 annual targets. Further details are
in the Annual Remuneration Report.
Main activities and future changes
The members of the Committee are identified on pages 48 and 49. During 2013 the Committee met 4 times,
with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary in attendance where appropriate. There were additional
meetings with external remuneration consultants PwC during the year, and PwC attended some Committee
meetings. The Committee’s main activities are summarised below:
Meeting Matters discussed 
4.2.13 Review of Remuneration Policy, update on regulatory changes to remuneration reporting.
Confirmation of Executive Directors' 2013 packages including salary, benefits and pension.
Review annual bonus and long term incentive policy and plans. Confirm measurement of
Alan Coppin Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 64
outstanding awards against targets for 2012.  Approve detailed targets for 2013. Review of NED
fees, Board expenses policy and Board expenses paid.
27.2.13 Approval (subject to results announcement) of total annual payments under performance related
incentive schemes for 2012.  Approval of individual PIP and LTIP awards for 2013. Review of 2012
Remuneration Committee Report.
6.6.13 Review proposed terms of appointment and remuneration package for new CEO.
21. 8.13 Approve and ratify new CEO package, set target for exceptional introductory LTIP award and
approve. Review “good leaver” provisions under the LTIP and ratify award for departing director.
Update on progress against 2013 incentive targets. Approve framework for external
benchmarking review and advice on replacement or renewal of incentive plans by independent
external advisers.
4.11.13 Review of external advisers’ recommendations on remuneration framework, including
benchmarking report (Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors). Report on pay and
benefit conditions elsewhere in the business.  Review and determine salary and benefit proposals
for Executive Directors in 2014. Review of Chairman’s fee. Progress report on 2013 PIP and LTIP
targets.  Consider appropriateness of remuneration policy and of design of incentive schemes:
review new incentive plan design proposals. Review of termination obligations arising under ED
service contracts.
13.12.13 Approval (subject to shareholder consultation) of detailed proposals for 2014 MIP . Review detailed
proposals for Executive Directors’ packages in 2014 and setting of incentive targets for 2014.
Board review of Non-Executive Directors’ fees (other than Chairman’s).  Board expenses policy
review.  Review terms of reference and Committee performance.
2014 Proposals
Incentive Schemes
The current Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) was introduced in 2005 and will expire in 2015. Since its
introduction, the only awards that have vested (apart from a small number of “good leaver” awards to
participants below Board level) are awards granted in 2011 that will vest proportionately following the 2013
results (see the Annual Remuneration Report). The LTIP in its current form is not supporting our objective to
provide stretching but achievable performance-related incentives: accordingly, we are seeking shareholder
approval for a new Marshalls plc Management Incentive Plan (the “MIP”) at our 2014 Annual General Meeting.
This plan will replace both the current PIP (the annual / deferred bonus plan) and the LTIP . The MIP (Element B)
envisages awards of restricted shares on achievement of performance targets set annually but which only vest
after 3 years if the participant remains a Group employee and 50 per cent of which is subject to a 3 year EPS
performance underpin. Once vested, the shares are subject to a further 2 year restriction on disposal. The
Committee believes this element of the MIP, incorporating a longer term shareholding requirement for
participants, will deliver more effective alignment with the interests of our shareholders than the LTIP while
also allowing us to strengthen our available mechanisms for retention and motivation of key individuals. As
the MIP awards are made after the relevant year-end, the first awards would not be made until 2015, so to avoid
a year’s gap between incentive schemes, a final award under the LTIP will be made in March 2014.
The PIP , introduced in 2011 to replace annual bonus and Matching Share awards, has worked well to deliver
its stated objectives of retention and flexibility. The final award under the current PIP relates to the 2013
financial year, with 50 per cent of participants’ accrued account value due to be paid in 2014 and the other 50
per cent in 2015. The principles on which the PIP operates are understood by participants, and meet good
governance guidelines. We have included in the proposed new MIP an Element A which operates on broadly
similar terms to the current PIP . 65 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
In designing the MIP , we have taken advice from PwC and have also engaged in a detailed consultation with
our top 14 investors, representing approximately 60 per cent of issued share capital. This process led us to
make amendments to our original proposals, following which I am pleased to confirm that we have a good
level of shareholder support for the new plan. Full details of the MIP are set out in the Notice of Annual General
Meeting issued with this Annual Report.
The MIP , if approved, will result in the first awards under Element B being granted in March 2015, with potential
vesting not before March 2018.We have consequently decided to make a final award of performance shares
under the 2005 LTIP in 2014 but have tailored the conditions to fit more closely with our current business
plans and strategy objectives. Details of the 2014 LTIP performance conditions are explained in the
Remuneration Policy and awards made to Executive Directors are shown in the Annual Remuneration Report.
Remuneration Policy
In our 2012 Remuneration Report, we sought to follow the new regulations as far as possible in explaining
our policy on remuneration for our Executive Directors and senior managers. The principles of the policy were
applied in the context of Martyn Coffey’s appointment, and Graham Holden's retirement as a “good leaver” .
At our 2013 Annual General Meeting, the shareholder vote on our 2012 Remuneration Report was 99 per cent
in favour. 
It should be noted that the only material change to the policy to be approved at the 2014 Annual General
Meeting is the introduction of the MIP , subject to shareholder approval, which it is intended will replace both
the current PIP and LTIP .
Summary of decisions in respect of the changes to the Remuneration Policy and its operation in 2014
Salary
Element Decision Rationale
3.5% increase. Reflects 3.5% inflation award for the workforce
as a whole in 2014. No increase for retiring
directors. Agreed first review of salary for new
CEO in 2015.
Benefits No change. The current range and level of benefits is
considered to be appropriate.
Pension No change for existing Directors.
Maximum of 20% of salary for new
recruits.
The Company contribution is in line with market
and sector benchmarks. (All Executive Directors
currently take entitlement in the form of a
pensions allowance).
Bonus Plan
Marshalls plc
Performance
Incentive Plan
(the “PIP”)
2011 plan ends in 2013.
Proposed to be replaced by Element A of
the proposed MIP which operates on the
same basis as the PIP .
Maximum award as percentage of salary
will be 150% under Element A of the
proposed MIP (reduced from 250%).
Current PIP has achieved retention and
incentive objectives.
The PIP design allows flexibility in setting
targets based on current operational and
strategic KPIs.
The PIP concept is understood by participants
and has gained acceptance among investors
generally.
Performance conditions are closely aligned with
strategy and remain appropriate (see Policy
Report). Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 66
Element Decision Rationale
Long Term
Incentive Plan
Marshalls plc
2005 LTIP
No further new awards after 2014.  To be
replaced  with Element B of the MIP . The
key features of Element B are:
- maximum award 100% of salary on date
of grant;
- annual targets set by reference to
strategic objectives;
- awards in form of contingent shares that
vest on third anniversary subject to
continued employment;
- 50% of shares earned are subject to an
EPS underpin;
- shares must be held for minimum of 5
years from grant date; and
- usual “good” and “bad” leaver, malus and
clawback provisions in accordance with
Remuneration Policy.
The maximum award under the PIP is 250% of
salary although in practice the Committee set
the maximum for 2012 and 2013 awards at
200%. The maximum under Element A of the
MIP which replaces the PIP has been reduced
further to 150% of salary.
Current LTIP expires in 2015. Majority of awards
under LTIP have not vested, which has
significantly reduced the effectiveness of the
LTIP to retain and incentivise participants. Not
sufficiently flexible to adapt to changing
strategy. Will be used for final awards in 2014
incorporating performance targets that remain
stretching but are more closely aligned with
strategic growth objectives.
Element B of the MIP will better align rewards
with shareholder interests. Flexible to adapt to
changing strategy. Increases the proportion of
variable pay that is deferred into long term
shareholding, in line with preferred minimum
holding period of investor organisations. Simple
to explain and administer.
Overall maximum under all incentive schemes reduces from 350% of salary in 2013 to 250% of salary in
2014 subject to MIP being approved by shareholders.
KPIs Targets Actual % of max
(Min/Max) achieved
L TIP RPI + 9% over 3 years 2011-2013 100%
EPS = 12.5% vests RPI + 91.8 %
Growth
RPI + 21% = 50% vests
Operating  RPI + 9% over 3 years 2011-2013 0%
Cash Flow = 12.5% vests RPI - 25.9 %
RPI + 21% = 50% vests
PIP
EPS 5.17p to 9.04p EPS of 6.94p 45.7%
Cash Net Debt in range Net Debt 100 %
£41.8m to £46.8m £35.6m
Customer 95% 98% No 
Service deduction
Health & 10% reduction in 14.8% reduction
Safety lost time accidents
year on year
How have we performed against our performance objectives in 2013?
I hope you find this report helpful and informative. We hope to receive your continued support of this Remuneration Report,
the Remuneration Policy and our incentive plan proposals at the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2014. 
Alan Coppin
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
The Principles of our Remuneration Policy
Competitive
Median salaries plus above-median incentives
provide opportunity for highly competitive total
reward for superior performance.
Performance linked
A significant part of executive reward is
determined by the Company's success.
Failure to achieve threshold levels of performance
results in no payout under short or long term
incentives.
Shareholder aligned
A considerable part of the reward is related to share
price performance and is paid in shares that have
to be retained for the longer term until minimum
shareholding requirements have been met.
Simple and transparent
All aspects of the remuneration structure are clear
to employees and openly communicated.  This
supports our aim of engendering fairness and
teamwork across the organisation. Remuneration Policy
This Report covers the reporting period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 and provides details of
the remuneration policy for the Company.  It has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013.
Shareholders will be asked to vote on this Policy at the Company's Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2014.
This Policy is intended to apply for the 3 years beginning on the date of approval at the 2014 Annual General
Meeting. 
Remuneration Committee Policy
The Committee’s policy is to target a remuneration package that is at around median for median performance
and in the upper quartile for exceptional performance, and which is closely linked with the Company’s strategic
objectives. In setting all elements of remuneration the Committee is advised by independent consultants and
periodically uses data from external research into the salaries and benefits paid by companies of a comparable
size and complexity to the Company. The Comparator Groups used in 2013 were:
• FTSE listed companies of comparable market capitalisation (40 companies); and
• companies in the Construction Sector (9 companies).
The aim of the policy is to attract, retain and continue to motivate talented Executive Directors while aligning
remuneration with shareholder interests and with the achievement of strategic performance objectives. This
is achieved by balancing a basic fixed package, which is periodically benchmarked against the median of the
comparator group, with the opportunity to achieve upper quartile remuneration from a combination of
stretching but achievable short and long term incentives.
The terms of reference for the Committee include the responsibility for setting the policy on incentive reward
for senior employees, in particular those who could have a material impact on the risk profile of the Group.
The Committee has, in the design and application of the Company’s annual and long term variable
performance related incentive plans, incorporated risk adjustment mechanisms to encourage consistent and
sustainable levels of Company performance and to ensure, when selecting performance conditions and the
level of challenge within those conditions, that they support the long term future of the Company. In reviewing
its policy and determining remuneration the Committee also considers the wider economic conditions and
pay and reward packages elsewhere in its Sector and within the business.
This Policy is intended to apply for 3 years beginning on the date of approval at the 2014 Annual General
Meeting.
Policy
67 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Element Operation Purpose and how it
supports the strategy
Opportunity/Maximum Performance
measures and
period
Base salary An Executive Director’s basic salary is
considered by the Committee on their
appointment and reviewed annually or
when an individual changes position or
responsibility. In reviewing base salary, the
Committee considers remuneration
practices within the Group as a whole and,
where relevant, objective research on
companies within the Company’s peer
groups. The Company when conducting a
review also looks at the constituents of the
comparator group to ensure they remain
appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee policy in
relation to salary is:
• up to the median salary on
appointment depending on the
experience and background of the new
Executive Director;
• on promotion, up to the median salary
for the new role;
• otherwise pay increases will not
exceed the higher of inflation and/or
pay rises generally for Group
employees.
None. Base salary recognises the
market value of the Executive’ s
role, skill, responsibilities,
performance and experience.
Fixed costs are minimised and
above-median level of total
remuneration is only provided
where the performance
elements of the package are
earned. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 68
Operation Purpose and how it
supports the strategy
Performance
measures and
period
Other factors taken into account include:
• the individual performance and
experience of the Executive Director;
• the general performance of the
Company; and
• the economic environment.
Salary is paid in 12 equal monthly
instalments during the year.
• individuals who are recruited or
promoted to the Board may, on
occasion, have their salaries set below
the targeted policy level until they
become established in their role. In
such cases subsequent increases in
salary may be higher than the average
until the target positioning is
achieved.
• the salaries of the Executive Directors
are set out on page 87 in the
Statement of Implementation of
Remuneration Policy in the following
Financial Year (2014).
Benefits Benefits for Executive Directors are a fully
expensed company car, private medical
insurance (including spouse and dependent
children up to age 24), and death in service
insurance. 
Martyn Coffey is entitled to claim travel and
accommodation expenses until the third
anniversary of his appointment. The cost of
providing these benefits is borne by the
Company.
The Company may also carry permanent
health insurance cover in respect of up to
100% of an Executive Director’s salary.
Although not a benefit to Executive
Directors, this insurance offers some
comfort to Executive Directors in the event
of long term ill-health.
Package consistent with standard
practice and in line with Comparator
Group.
The cost of the benefits set out is the
maximum value available.
The total amount claimed by Martyn
Coffey over the three year period may
not exceed £100,000 (net of tax).
None. The Company is required to
provide benefits in order to be
competitive and to ensure it is
able to recruit and retain
Executive Directors.
Pension/
Pension
Allowance
Executive Directors are entitled to
membership of the defined contribution
section of the Marshalls plc Pension
Scheme.  The Company contributes at an
agreed percentage of basic salary.
Executive Directors may take a pensions
allowance in place of the Company’s
contribution to the Scheme.
Pension allowances are excluded for the
purposes of calculating any other element
of remuneration based on a percentage of
salary.
The maximum Company contribution or
pension allowance is 30% of salary.
None. To enable Executive Directors
to make appropriate provision
for retirement.
The Marshalls
Incentive Plan
(“MIP”)
Element A
(replacing the
current PIP)
Annual target set by reference to strategic
and operational objectives by
Remuneration Committee.  If conditions
met, 50% of earned award paid as cash.
50% deferred as shares into individual plan
account.
50% of accrued plan account balance paid
out annually for 3 years, provided forfeiture
threshold exceeded each year, with the
final balance paid at the end of the fourth
year.
Awards subject to continued employment
at end of the period.
The forfeiture thresholds if not achieved
result in the loss of up to 50% of unpaid
awards. 
Maximum Company Annual Contribution
of 150% of salary for Executive Directors.
EPS, Net Debt and Export sales
performance targets. Details are
set out in the Statement of
Implementation of Renumeration
Policy for 2014 and the AGM
Notice. The Committee has the
discretion to change the
weighting of the targets on an
annual basis.
It is the view of the Committee
that the targets for the MIP are
commercially sensitive as they
relate to specific profitability,
debt limits and volume growth
levels in the Company  for the
financial year to come and
therefore their disclosure in
To link variable pay to
achievement of annual
financial and business
objectives.
EPS, Net Debt and Export sales
performance targets clearly
linked to strategy.
Deferral of 50% of the balance
into share-linked units
provides shareholder
alignment and enhances
retention as payment is
subject to confirmed
alignment.
Element Opportunity/Maximum 69 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Operation Purpose and how it
supports the strategy
Performance
measures and
period
There are also malus and clawback
provisions in the event of material
misstatement or fraud or an error in the
calculation of the performance conditions.
advance is not in the interests of
the Company or shareholders.
The Committee will provide full
retrospective disclosure to
enable shareholders to judge
the level of award provided
against the targets set.
The Committee retains
discretion in exceptional
circumstances to change
performance measures and
targets and the weightings
attached to performance
measures part-way through a
performance year if there is a
significant and material event
which causes the Committee to
believe the original measures,
weightings and targets are no
longer appropriate. Discretion
may also be exercised in cases
where the Committee believe
that the bonus outcome is not a
fair and accurate reflection of
business performance.
The targets for Element B are the
same as for Element A set out
above.
In addition, there is a risk of
forfeiture of 50% of this element
of the award if a minimum
performance target based on
EPS is not achieved over the
3 years between award and
vesting.
The Committee retains the same
discretion for Element B as for
Element A set out above.
MIP
Element B
(replacing
the current
LTIP)
Annual target set by reference to strategic
and operational objectives by
Remuneration Committee.  
Awards are made annually in shares.
Awards are subject to continued
employment for 3 years.
Awards, once vested, may not be sold for a
further 2 years.
Participants build up a shareholding over 5
years.
There is a financial underpin which, if not
achieved over 3 years results in the loss of
up to 50% of unvested awards. 
There are also malus and clawback
provisions in the event of material
misstatement or fraud or an error in the
calculation of the performance conditions.
Maximum Company Annual Contribution
of 100% of salary for Executive Directors.
To link variable pay to
achievement of annual
financial and business
objectives.
EPS, Net Debt and Export sales
performance targets clearly
linked to strategy.
To promote long term
shareholding in the Company
and strengthen alignment
between interests of Executive
Directors and senior managers
and those of shareholders.
Shareholding
Requirement
The Executive Director is required to retain
50% of the net number of shares earned
under the Company’s incentive
arrangements until the shareholding
requirement is satisfied.
A new Executive Director may build up the
minimum requirement within the first 5
years from the year of joining. Failure to
meet the shareholding requirement within
5 years of appointment will result in a
reduction in the future levels of award
under the Company’s incentive plans.
The minimum shareholding requirement
for the CEO is 200% of salary, and the
minimum for other Executive Directors is
100% of salary. The Committee has
discretion to increase the level if it deems
appropriate.
In order to ensure a long-term
alignment between the
Executive Directors and
shareholders the Company
operates a minimum
shareholding requirement for
Executive Directors.
Element Opportunity/Maximum Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 70
Operation Purpose and how it
supports the strategy
Performance
measures and
period
Marshalls
plc Share
Purchase
Plan (“SPP”)
The SPP is a HM Revenue & Customs
approved Employee Share Incentive Plan
which allows all employees with more than
6 months service, including Executive
Directors, to participate.
Participants may purchase shares from
pre-tax salary. The Committee has the
flexibility in line with the limits provided
under the Plan to provide matching
shares and free shares.
The limits for awards under this Plan are
the limits set by HMRC under the
relevant legislation.
None.
The tax efficiency is linked to
continued employment with
the Company for specified
holding periods (a minimum of
3 years).
None.
All employee share purchase
plan maximising the number
of employee shareholders
within the Company.
Non-
Executive
Directors’
Fees 
Terms of engagement provided in formal
letters of appointment.  Remuneration is
determined by the Board within the limits
set by the Articles of Association and based
on equivalent roles in the same comparator
groups as are used for Executive Directors.
The Chairman's fee is set by the Committee.
Fees are reviewed annually, and
periodically benchmarked against
comparator groups.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive any
bonus, do not participate in awards under
the Company’s share plans, and are not
eligible to join the Company’s pension
scheme.
Non-Executive Directors receive a fixed
travel and accommodation allowance  in
connection with the performance of their
duties.
The Company’s policy in relation to fees
is:
• up to median level fees on
appointment depending on the
experience and background of the
new Non-Executive Director;
• increases during a term of office  will
not normally exceed the lower of
inflation or the general rise for
employees; and
• fees may be adjusted to recognise
significant change in responsibility
levels (for example if the Company’s
ranking as a constituent of the FTSE All
Share Index changes).
Annual fee to attract and
retain experienced and skilled
Non-Executive Directors with
the necessary experience and
expertise to advise and assist
with establishing and
monitoring the strategic
objectives of the Company.
Fees reflect the time
commitment and
responsibilities of the roles.
Additional fee paid to the
Senior Independent Director
and for Chairmanship of a
Board Committee.
Type of Plan
All Employee Share
Plans (10% Limit)
Discretionary Share
Plans (5% Limit)
Share Awards as a percentage of Issued
Share Capital as at 31 December 2013 in a
Rolling Ten Year Period
2.56%
1.95%
Share Awards as a percentage of Issued
Share Capital as at 31 December 2013
granted during the Year
-
0.87%
Element Opportunity/Maximum
Funding of Share Plans
The Company would normally expect to meet its obligations to satisfy awards under share incentive plans
from shares purchased in the market by the Marshalls Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) or held in treasury,
although it also has the right to fulfil LTIP awards through the issue of new shares, subject to the limits below.
The Company monitors the levels of share grants likely to vest and the impact of these on the ongoing
requirement for shares.  
In accordance with the guidelines set out by the ABI, the Company can issue a maximum of 10 per cent of its
issued share capital in a rolling 10 year period to employees under all its share plans and a maximum of 5 per
cent within this 10 per cent for discretionary share plans.  The Company will remain within these limits for the
new MIP .
The following table summarises the current level of theoretical dilution resulting from existing Company share
plans. The Company would not expect to issue more than 7.5 per cent of the issued share capital for cash
within any rolling 3 year period without prior consultation with shareholders. The use of treasury shares would
count towards the dilution limit. 71 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
As at 31 December 2013 the EBT held 1,091,269 ordinary shares in Marshalls plc which were acquired in the
open market. The EBT is funded to purchase shares through cash drawn down under the terms of a Loan
Facility Agreement established at the time of the creation of the EBT.  During 2013 the EBT did not acquire
any shares.
Provisions of the previous Policy that will continue to apply
The following table sets out subsisting entitlements granted to Executive Directors under the previous policy
where the entitlements have not yet vested or been paid. 
The PIP is a 4 year plan introduced in 2011 under which the final contribution will be made in respect of the
2013 results. 50 per cent of the resulting balance on PIP plan accounts will vest after the 2013 results are
announced, while the remaining balance is deferred and would be expected to vest in 2015 after
announcement of the 2014 results subject to continued employment.
The 2005 LTIP expires in 2015 and it is the intention to make no further awards under this incentive scheme
following approval of the MIP . The Committee has approved a final grant of performance shares under the
2005 LTIP in March 2014, and has set EPS and OCF growth targets that are closely related to the medium term
plans of the Group. If targets are met, these LTIP awards will vest in March 2017, ensuring that there is no
incentive gap before the first potential awards under Element B of the MIP are capable of vesting in 2018. 
“PIP”
annual/deferred
bonus plan
In accordance with the Group's previous remuneration policy, 50% of PIP plan account balances from the 2011-2013 PIP will be paid in March 2014 with the
balance being paid in March 2015 provided the participant remains employed. The PIP balance is expressed as shares and dividends paid during the relevant
year are added at the end of the relevant financial year before plan account balances are calculated.
The only entitlements remaining under the PIP are the payment of deferred earned balances held as shares in individual plan accounts, which are subject to
continued employment (see the Annual Remuneration Report for the details of the 2013 performance targets and their satisfaction).
Provisions of the previous Policy that will continue to apply - 
LTIP awards made in 2012 and 2013
2005 Long Term
Incentive Plan
(“LTIP”)
Details of outstanding grants
Name 2012 2013
Performance Performance
Shares Shares
Graham 397,022 296,269
Holden
Ian 228,288 185,803
Burrell
David 228,288 185,803
Sarti
Annual grant of nil-cost options linked
to performance conditions measured
over a 3 year period.
Operation
Performance measures and period
Performance conditions measured over 3 financial years.
Performance measures and relative weightings are:
• 50% EPS; and
• 50% Operating Cash Flow (“OCF”)
Vesting of 50% of the Award subject to EPS performance
conditions:
Performance % of Award
(EPS Growth) Vesting*
RPI + 9% 12.5%
RPI + 21% 50%
Vesting of 50% of the Award subject to OCF Growth:
Performance % of Award
(OCF Growth) Vesting*
RPI + 9% 12.5%
RPI + 21% 50%
*Straight line vesting between points.
Definitions and Calculations
EPS is measured using International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”)
based on the audited results of the Company and subject to the discretion
of the Committee with regard to one-off items.
OCF growth is calculated by taking the aggregated OCF for the 3 financial
years preceding the year of grant of the award and comparing it with the
aggregate OCF . Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 72
LTIP awards made in 2012 and 2013 (continued)
Introductory award to Martyn Coffey 
100% of salary at date of grant =
243,412 Performance Shares
Martyn Coffey is required to retain 50%
of the net number of shares earned
under the Company’s incentive
arrangements until he has achieved a
shareholding equal to 200% of base
salary.
The introductory award for Martyn Coffey in 2013 used a share price
target instead of the EPS and OCF growth targets. The performance
condition is that the Company’s average share price in the month
following announcement of the Company’s 2015 full year results must
be within a range of £2 (50% vesting) and £2.50 (100% vesting), with
straight line vesting between these points.
Based on the average price of the Company’ s shares in the month of offer
(June 2013) of 134.1 pence and in the month of award (September 2013)
of 173.7 pence, this target was considered both stretching and aligned
with the interests of shareholders.
LTIP awards made in 2014
2005 Long Term
Incentive Plan
(“LTIP”)
Grants
Performance Shares equal to 100% of
salary for Executive Directors
Operation
Annual grant of nil-cost
options linked to
performance conditions
measured over a 3 year
period.
Performance measures and period
Performance conditions measured over 3 financial years.
Performance measures and relative weightings are:
• 75% EPS; and
• 25% OCF
Vesting of 75% of the Award subject to EPS performance conditions:
Performance % of Award
(EPS Growth) Vesting*
75% 0%
100% 50%
125%                                                                       100%
Vesting of 25% of the Award subject to OCF Growth:
Performance % of Award
(Annual OCF Growth) Vesting*
5 % 0%
10 % 50%
15 % 100%
*Straight line vesting between points.
Definitions and Calculations
EPS is measured using International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) based on the
audited results of the Company and subject to the discretion of the Committee with regard
to one-off items.
OCF growth is calculated by taking the aggregated OCF for the 3 financial years preceding
the year of grant of the award and comparing it with the aggregate OCF .
Consideration of Remuneration Policy for other Employees
The Committee takes into account pay and reward packages of the UK workforce as a whole and of other
groups of employees in applying its policy and determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors. For
other tiers of management and below, the Company operates annual and long-term incentive arrangements
using criteria that may be job specific and which also link with Company or individual performance. Senior
management participate in the PIP and the 2005 LTIP and are expected to participate in the MIP . The criteria
for performance related pay under the PIP and the retention periods are the same for senior management as
for the Executive Directors, with varying percentages of salary dependent on seniority and the strategic impact
of the role. Under the 2005 LTIP , the criteria for awards are the same as those applicable to awards made to
Executive Directors, and the performance period is the same. It is expected that the senior management will
be invited to participate in the MIP using the same performance criteria as Executive Directors. 
Basic salaries for senior management, having been frozen at 2012 levels throughout 2013, increased by 3.5
per cent with effect from 1 January 2014, assuming there was no change in role or responsibilities.  In the case
of a promotion, a change of responsibilities or where necessary to attract a new recruit for a particular position,
the increase may be higher.  73 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
The basic pay of the general workforce is subject to a 3 year agreement, under which there was no increase
for 2013 (after increases in 2011 and 2012). There will be a 3.5 per cent increase with effect from 1 January
2014, and a further annual increase in 2015 by the Retail Price Index (RPI) + 0.5 per cent, based on the average
of the RPI figures for September, October and November 2014 and subject to a maximum increase of 4 per
cent and a minimum increase of 2.9 per cent.
The Committee has not specifically canvassed the views of the Company’s employees on its remuneration
policy, although the views of employees on matters that include pay and conditions generally are canvassed
by means of the Company’s periodic “Pulse” surveys, the results of which are regularly and openly
communicated to the Board. The Company did not use any remuneration comparison measurements.
Total Remuneration Opportunity
In future years, the total remuneration opportunity for each of the Executive Directors at 3 different levels of
performance is shown below:
100%
41%
33%
35%
40%
24%
27%
£0 £500,000 £1,000,000 £1,500,000 £2,000,000
Below Threshold
Target
Outperformance
Chief Executive (Martyn Coffey)
Salary, benefits and pension MIP – Element A MIP – Element B
100%
44%
35%
34%
39%
22%
26%
£0 £500,000 £1,000,000 £1,500,000 £2,000,000
Below Threshold
Target
Outperformance
Group Finance Director (Ian Burrell)
Salary, benefits and pension MIP – Element A MIP – Element B
100%
44%
35%
34%
39%
22%
26%
£0 £500,000 £1,000,000 £1,500,000 £2,000,000
Below Threshold
Target
Outperformance
Chief Operating Officer (David Sarti)
Salary, benefits and pension MIP – Element A MIP – Element B Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 74
Notes:
(a) The base salary, benefits and pension information is taken from the Single Figure Remuneration table in the 2013 Annual Remuneration Report.
The benefits value reflects a fully expensed company car, medical insurance and any other taxable benefits and pension includes the level of
pensions allowance paid instead of contractual employer pension contributions.
(b) Achievement of performance targets in line with expectations will result in 70 per cent of the annual award under the MIP .
(c) The minimum assumes a performance that fails to meet the threshold for Element A and Element B so is the level below which no variable pay
under the MIP is earned.
(d) The maximum represents the full 250 per cent of salary potential under the MIP .  
Recruitment Policy
The following table sets out the Company’s policy on recruitment of new Executive Directors for each element
of the remuneration package:
The Remuneration Committee will offer salaries that reflect the role and responsibility of the individual, using external benchmarks as a
point of reference for comparative roles in line with its policy for existing Executive Directors, and would wherever possible aim to recruit at
a salary lower than the previous salary for the same role (except where the previous salary was below median). In exceptional circumstances
the Committee may offer salaries in excess of the median for the right candidate with an appropriate business case and in such cases will
provide a full explanation to shareholders.
Remuneration element Policy on Recruitment
Base Salary
The Remuneration Committee will offer the Company’s standard benefit package as described in the Remuneration Policy. This may include
relocation / travel and accommodation allowance where required to attract the right candidate.
Benefits
The maximum contribution on recruitment will be 20% of salary.  Current contribution levels were set for Executives who had been
participating in the Company’s defined benefit plan, so were historically higher.
Pension
The maximum award value will be set in line with the Company’s policy for existing Executive Directors. MIP
The maximum level of annual variable remuneration which may be earned by an Executive Director under the Company’s incentive plan is
250 % of salary. 
Maximum Level 
of Variable
Remuneration
The Committee’s policy is not to provide buy outs as a matter of course.
However, should the Committee determine that the individual circumstances of recruitment justified the provision of a buyout, the value of
any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of a Director’s previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following:
• the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Director’s cessation of employment;
• the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied; and
•  any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value (“lapsed value”).
The Committee may then grant up to the equivalent value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Company’s incentive plans.  To the
extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buy out within the terms of the Company’s existing incentive plans, a bespoke
arrangement would be used.
“Buy Outs”
An internal recruit will be permitted to keep any deferred payments or awards granted which the Company made or committed to before his
or her appointment to the Board.
Internal Recruit
The Company’s policy when setting fees for the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors is to apply the
policy which applies to current Non-Executive Directors.
Service Contracts and Policy on Termination Payments
Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract with the Company which is terminable by the Company
on not more than 12 months’ notice and by the Director on 6 months’ notice.  Directors' service contracts do
not contain liquidated damages clauses. There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a
pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement. There is no agreement between the
Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that
occurs because of a takeover bid. 75 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed under letters of appointment, usually for a
term of 3 years. Either the Company or the Non-Executive Director may terminate the appointment before
the end of the current term on 6 months' notice. If the unexpired term is less than 6 months, notice does not
need to be served.   All Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election. No compensation is payable
if a Non-Executive Director is required to stand down.
Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors
Term Ian Martyn Graham David Andrew Alan Mark Tim
Burrell Coﬀey Holden Sarti Allner Coppin Edwards Pile
Date of Contract/ June September August November July 2003 May 2010 May 2010 October 2010
Appointment 2001 2013 1992 2004 (renewed in (renewed in (renewed in (renewed in
July 2013) July 2013) July 2013) July 2013)
Notice Period in Months
Company 12 12 12 12 6 6 6 6
Director (6) (6) (6) (6) (6) (6) (6) (6)
Copies of Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Company’s
registered office on application to the Company Secretary, and will also be on display at the Company’s  Annual
General Meeting.
If a contract is to be terminated the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and
reasonable in each case, taking into account (i) the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate Governance
Code and published guidance from recognised institutional investor bodies; and (ii) legal advice. The
Committee periodically considers what compensation commitments the Executive Directors’ contracts would
entail in the event of early termination. Where possible, the Company will seek to pay compensation in monthly
instalments after termination. The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such
payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach
of such an obligation); or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the
termination of a Director's office or employment.
Remuneration Element Treatment on Exit Committee Discretion
General When determining any loss of office payment for a departing individual the Committee
will always seek to minimise the cost to the Company whilst seeking to reflect the
circumstances at the time.
The Committee retains discretion to make loss of
office payments appropriate to the circumstances
and applying the overriding principle that there
should be no element of reward for failure.
Base Salary Salary will be paid over the notice period. The Company has discretion to make a lump
sum payment on termination of the salary payable during the notice period. In all cases
the Company will seek to mitigate any payments due.
The Committee has discretion to make a lump
sum payment.
Benefits Benefits will normally be provided over the notice period. The Company has discretion
to make a lump sum payment on termination equal to the value of the benefits payable
during the notice period. In all cases the Company will seek to mitigate any payments
due.
The Committee has discretion to make a lump
sum payment.
Pension / 
Salary Supplement
Company pension contributions / salary supplement will normally be provided over the
notice period. The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment on termination
equal to the value of the Company pension contributions/salary supplement during the
notice period. In all cases the Company will seek to mitigate any payments due.
The Committee has discretion to make a lump
sum payment. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 76
Remuneration Element Treatment on Exit Committee Discretion
Variable / 
Performance-related
remuneration provided
under the MIP
Assuming approval in 2014, the Company will operate one incentive plan for the
Executive Directors of the Company, the MIP . The treatment of awards on cessation of
employment is governed by the rules of the MIP approved by shareholders.
The rules of the MIP provide that on termination of employment before the
performance measurement date or prior to the relevant vesting date, no award will
be granted in respect of the year of cessation and any subsisting entitlements will
lapse; unless the following circumstances apply:
• injury or disability;
• redundancy within the meaning of the Employment Rights Act 1996 or equivalent
legislation;
• retirement by agreement with the Company by which they are employed;
• the Executive being employed by a Company which ceases to be a Group Member;
• the Executive being employed in an undertaking or part of an undertaking which
is transferred to a person who is not a Group Member; or
• any other circumstances if the Committee decides in any particular case to treat
the Executive Director as a “good leaver” .
If an Executive Director leaves in one of the above circumstances the rules provide for
the following:
Element A of the MIP
The Committee will calculate the amount of any payment pro-rated to the amount
of the plan year completed on the Executive’ s date of cessation and taking into account
the level of satisfaction of the performance targets at the next performance
measurement date. Any payment is made as soon as practicable after the
determination of the level of satisfaction of the performance targets.
Deferred balances will be paid as the performance conditions were satisfied at the
date of grant.
Element B of the MIP
In respect of the year of cessation the Committee will calculate any award pro-rated
to the amount of the plan year completed on the Executive’s date of cessation and
taking into account the level of satisfaction of the performance targets at the next
performance measurement date. Any award will be made as soon as practicable after
the determination of the level of satisfaction of the performance targets and will
remain subject to the sale restrictions.
Shares subject to subsisting awards at the date of cessation of employment shall vest
on the date of cessation or the next measurement date as determined by the
Committee pro-rated to the amount of the relevant vesting period completed and
subject to the proportionate satisfaction of the financial underpin on such date
provided that the shares shall remain subject to the relevant sale restrictions.
It should be noted that the performance targets for subsisting awards were satisfied
at the date of grant.
The Committee has discretion to determine that
the reason for termination falls within the
circumstances listed in the adjacent column.
The Committee will only use its general
discretion to determine that an Executive
Director is a “good leaver” in exceptional
circumstances and will provide a full
explanation to shareholders, if possible in
advance, of the basis for its determination.
Commitments made to Directors retiring in 2014 (Graham Holden, who retires in April 2014, and David Sarti,
who retires on 31 December 2014) will be honoured in accordance with the Company’s remuneration policy
in force during 2013.  Although the Committee does not anticipate any payments for loss of office, it is
expected that entitlements to incentives earned in respect of the period up to retirement in each case will be
treated under the "good leaver" rules of the PIP and LTIP respectively. 77 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Change of Control
The Committee has the following discretion under the rules of the MIP on a change of control:
Treatment on Change of Control Committee Discretion
Element A of the MIP
The Committee will calculate the amount of any payment pro-rated to the amount of the plan year
completed on the change of control and taking into account the level of satisfaction of underlying
performance targets at the date of the change of control. Any payment shall be made as soon as
practicable after the determination of the level of satisfaction of the performance targets.
Element B of the MIP
In respect of the year of the change of control the Committee will calculate any award pro-rated to the
amount of the plan year completed on the change of control and taking into account the level of
satisfaction of the performance targets at the date of the change of control. Any award shall be made as
soon as practicable after the determination of the level of satisfaction of the performance targets and
shall not be subject to the sale restrictions.
Shares subject to subsisting awards shall vest on the date of the change of control and the sale restrictions
shall be removed. It should be noted that the performance targets for subsisting awards were satisfied
at the date of grant.
The Committee has a discretion whether to
pro-rate any element to time. It is the
Committee’ s policy in normal circumstances
to pro-rate to time; however, in exceptional
circumstances where the nature of the
transaction produces exceptional value to
shareholders and provided the performance
targets are met the Committee will consider
whether pro-rating is equitable.
The Committee has the same discretion in
relation to Element B as set out above for
Element A and will operate it in the same
manner.
The Committee would provide a full
explanation to shareholders of the basis on
which their discretion is exercised in such
circumstances.
Discretion
The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this report. The Committee may also
exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set
out in those rules. In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or
administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await
shareholder approval.
Consideration of Shareholder Views
The Committee consulted its top 14 shareholders in relation to the proposal to introduce the 2014 MIP which
is expected to replace the PIP and the 2005 L TIP , and took into account views expressed during the consultation
when agreeing the final MIP design. The MIP will be the subject of a shareholder vote at the Company’s 2014
Annual General Meeting and no awards under the MIP will be made prior to its approval at that meeting. The
majority of the shareholders consulted have, as at the date of this report, expressed support for the proposals. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 78
Annual Remuneration Report
This report covers the reporting period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013.
Single Total Figure of Remuneration (Audited)
Executive Directors
Salary Other Benefits PIP Bonus
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Ian Burrell 237 237 13 12 151 98
Martyn Coffey 125 - 16 - 79 -
Graham Holden 319 412 10 12 262 170
David Sarti 237 237 16 16 151 98
TOTAL 918 886 55 40 643 366
Notes (a)
and (b) Note (c) Note (d)
Notes to Directors’ Single Figure Remuneration Table
(a) The table above shows salaries, performance related bonuses and benefits paid by reference to the year ended 31 December 2013. There was no
increase in Executive Directors’ salaries between 2012 and 2013. 
(b) Graham Holden retired from the Board on 10 October 2013.  The table includes his remuneration for the period between 1 January and 10 October
2013. Martyn Coffey joined the Group and was appointed to the Board on 9 September 2013.  The table includes his remuneration for the period
between 9 September and 31 December 2013.
(c) Benefits are car / car allowance, fuel / fuel allowance, private medical insurance, life insurance and in the case of Martyn Coffey a travel expense
allowance of a maximum of £100,000 net of tax over a three year period.
(d) In line with the Regulations the annual bonus column headed “PIP Bonus” shows 50 per cent of the total bonus contribution made to the PIP in
respect of 2013 performance. The remaining 50 per cent in respect of 2013 is deferred into shares in the PIP account and must be held for a further
holding period. This deferred balance is subject to performance based forfeiture and will be disclosed in the L TIP column when this risk is removed.
The 2012 column has been re-stated on the same basis. Note (f) explains the different treatment of Graham Holden’s entitlements due to his
being a “good leaver” .
(e) The LTIP column shows the aggregate value of:
(i) Sums released from PIP account balances from earlier years that are no longer subject to deferral and forfeiture risk; and
(ii) 2011 Matching and Performance Share awards under the LTIP that have vested by reference to the 2011-2013 vesting period. 
No LTIP awards vested in 2012.  The value shown for 2012 represents the released PIP balance for that year that was deferred in 2011.
(f) Graham Holden’s entitlement to LTIP breaks down as follows:
(i) PIP account balance that would be released from earlier years in the normal course (see Note (e) (i));
(ii) The estimated value of the deferred balance of the PIP account which is expected to vest early on 11 April 2014 under the “good leaver” rules;
(iii) The estimated value of 2011 Matching and Performance Share awards under the LTIP that vest in the normal course following the 2013
results; and
(iv) The estimated value of 2012 and 2013 LTIP awards, which are expected to vest on a pro-rata basis on 11 April 2014, under the “ good leaver”
rules. 79 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
L TIP Pension contribution/ TOTAL
allowance
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
662 127 71 71 1,134 545
- - 23 - 243 -
2,213 221 96 123 2,900 938
662 127 71 71 1,137 549
3,537 475 261 265 5,414 2,032
Notes (e),
(f) and (g)
The following table summarises these entitlements:
LTIP Element Value (Actual or Estimated in Accordance
with the Regulations)
Balance of PIP Account £1,051,352 (601,013 shares x 174.93 pence)
2011 Matching Award (estimated value under Regulations) £478,379 (273,469 shares x 174.93 pence)
2011 Performance Share Award (estimated value
under Regulations) £309,829 (177,116 shares x 174.93 pence)
2012 LTIP Performance Share Award (estimated value
under Regulations) £263,609 (150,694 shares x 174.93 pence)
2013 LTIP Performance Share Award (estimated value
under Regulations) £110,279 (63,042 shares x 174.93 pence)
(g) All deferred shares or notional shares in the LTIP column have been valued in accordance with the new reporting regulations as the number of
shares / notional shares x the average share price over the last quarter of 2013. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 80
PIP: Annual Performance Awards (Audited)
The following table summarises the Plan Accounts for the Executive Directors under the PIP:
Plan Accounts Martyn Coffey Ian Burrell David Sarti Graham Holden
2013 Opening Balance (shares) Nil 230,912 230,912 498,179
Value of Opening Balance as at 
31 December 2012 Nil £225,140 £225,140 £485,725
2013 Contribution (Note a) £158,618 £301,542 £301,542 £524,422
(% of salary earned) 127.3% 127.3% 127.3% 127.3%
Dividends - £12,123 £12,123 £26,154
Impact of 2013 share price increase - £181,844 £181,844 £392,317
Value at Measurement Date (Note b) £158,618 £720,649 £720,649 £1,428,618
2013 Element released (Note c) £79,309 £360,324 £360,324 £1,428,618
Closing Balance (deferred into shares) £79,309 £360,325 £360,325 Nil
Number of shares represented 
by closing balance (Note d) 44,997 204,439 204,439 Nil
(a) The 2013 performance conditions and their level of satisfaction are set out below.  Martyn Coffey's entitlement to 2013 PIP relates to the period
between 9 September 2013 and 31 December 2013 calculated on a pro-rata basis. Graham Holden’s entitlement relates to the full year.
(b) This value is calculated by multiplying the opening balance of notional shares deferred in the bonus pool by the closing share price of 176.25
pence on 31 December 2013 (2012: 97.5 pence), adding the value of dividends paid on the equivalent number of ordinary shares during 2013
and adding the 2013 contribution.
(c) Graham Holden is entitled to receive the balance of his PIP account in shares on his retirement, including amounts that would otherwise have
been deferred until 2015. Graham Holden has voluntarily waived £107,120, representing 20 per cent of base salary (as reported in 2012).  This
amount has been deducted from the value of his PIP account at the measurement date, resulting in a balance of 749,786 shares to be released
on his retirement. (£1,428,618- £107,120 = £1,321,498).
(d) This value is calculated using the closing share price on 31 December 2013 of 176.25 pence.
2013 PIP Performance Conditions and their level of satisfaction
Criteria Percentage of Forfeiture Minimum Maximum 2013 Percentage Percentage
Maximum Threshold Target Target Actual of Target of salary
Contribution achieved earned
based on
Criteria
EPS 67% 4.05p 5.17p 9.04p 6.94p 45.7% 61.3%
Cash 33% N/A£46.8m£41.8m£35.6m100%66.0%
Non-financial 15% deduction No
targets if not met 100% deduction
EPS
The Group's EPS from continuing operations improved from 5.52 pence in 2012 to 6.94 pence in 2013 and
profit before tax on continuing operations grew from £9.3 million to £13.0 million.
Cash
The Net Debt at 31 December 2013 of £35.6 million was better than the lower (better) end of the target range
set by the Committee at the beginning of 2013. 81 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
The Committee has discretion to adjust for the impact of one-off disposals and unbudgeted changes to
corporation tax rates, exceptional items and associated cash costs in assessing whether targets are met.  In
2013, adjustments were made to neutralise the effect of the disposal of aggregates quarries.   To the extent
that any such adjustments caused the published EPS to differ from the adjusted EPS, the Committee would
require both to be below the forfeiture threshold before any PIP balances would be partially forfeited.
Additional Performance Conditions
The Group exceeded its minimum target of 95 per cent customer service on average throughout the year. The
Group also saw a reduction of 14.8 per cent year on year in days lost to accidents against its target of 10.0 per
cent.  Therefore no negative adjustment was made to the 2013 contribution earned in the PIP .
Dividends
Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders during 2013 (5.25 pence per share) were credited to the deferred
bonus pool.
2005 L TIP
A proportion of Matching and Performance Awards granted in 2011 have vested following the announcement
of the 2013 annual results.  Vesting of these awards was dependent on performance over the 3 financial years
ending 31 December 2011, 2012 and 2013 and on continued employment until the vesting date. 
Performance Measures
Percentage of Percentage of 2011 
Performance Shares Award Vesting* Actual Awards Vesting
EPS 12.5% EPS changed 100% of EPS target
Growth of RPI +9% from 3.43p to 6.94p
EPS 50% being RPI + 91.8%
Growth of RPI +21%
Operating Cash Flow 12.5% OCF changed from 0% of OCF target
Growth of RPI +9% £105.0m to £88.9m
being RPI - 25.9%
Operating Cash Flow 50%
Growth of RPI +21%
Percentage of Percentage of
Matching Shares Award Vesting* Actual Awards Vesting
EPS 25% EPS changed from 100% of target
Growth of RPI +9% 3.43p to 6.94p
EPS 100% being RPI + 91.8%
Growth of RPI +21%
* Straight line vesting between points.
Definitions and Calculations
Performance Shares take the form of nil-cost options. Matching Shares are the right to receive a number of
shares from the Company equivalent to 2 times the value of annual bonus invested by a participant in
Investment Shares, subject to achievement of the performance conditions.
EPS is measured using International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRSs") based on the audited results of
the Company and subject to the discretion of the Committee with regard to one off items. Operating Cash
Flow ("OCF") growth is calculated by taking the aggregate OCF for the 3 financial years preceding the year of
grant of the award and comparing it with the aggregate OCF for the 3 years following the date of grant. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 82
2005 L TIP Awards made in 2013 (Audited)
Executive Basis of Award Face Value Number of Measurement Performance
Director £'000 Shares Period Conditions
Martyn Coffey 100% of salary 400 243,412 30 days Share price
(Note a) following 2015 (See Policy)
results
announcement
Graham Holden 80% of salary 378 296,269 3 years from EPS Growth
(Note b) (voluntary 17 April 2013 OCF Growth
reduction by (See Policy)
Graham Holden)
Ian Burrell 100% of salary 237 185,803 3 years from EPS Growth
17 April 2013 OCF Growth
(See Policy)
David Sarti 100% of salary 237 185,803 3 years from EPS Growth
17 April 2013 OCF Growth
(See Policy)
(a) Exceptional award granted on appointment.
(b) The number of Performance Shares to be awarded in 2013 under the LTIP was calculated on the normal grant date i.e. immediately following
announcement of the results in March 2013, but granting of the award was delayed to allow completion of the disposal of certain aggregates
quarries. The value of the number of shares awarded to Graham Holden calculated at the grant date was greater than 80% of salary because the
share price had increased. No awards exceeded the maximum limit of 100 per cent of salary on the grant date.
2005 L TIP Awards: Position of Awards outstanding as at 31 December 2013
Performance Share Awards
Executive Number of Target Actual Potential Actual Potential
Director Performance EPS (50%) 2012 Level of 2013 Level of
Shares awarded and Awards Vesting of Awards Vesting of
OCF (50%) 2012 Awards 2013 Awards
growth (Note a) (Note b)
Graham Holden
(Note d) 296,269 397,022
Ian Burrell 185,803 228,288
David Sarti 185,803 228,288
Martyn Coffey 243,412 -
2013 2012
EPS 67% EPS growth EPS 100%
=25.7%
OCF 0% OCF negative OCF 0%
RPI + 9% 
to 21%
EPS growth 
= 22.8%
OCF negative
Share price N/A N/A Share Price 0%
in range 176.25p
200p to 250p
(a) Estimate assumes RPI to be 5.8 per cent over first two years of vesting period.
(b) Estimate assumes RPI to be 2.7 per cent over first year of vesting period.
(c) All estimates are measured as at 31 December 2013. 
(d) The outstanding awards held by Graham Holden will be pro-rated to his leaving date of 11 April 2014.  Details of the expected vesting levels in
respect of 2012 and 2013 awards are included in the notes to the Single Figure Remuneration table on pages 78 and 79. 83 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Pension Benefits (Audited)
The Defined Benefit Section of the Marshalls plc Pension Scheme (the “Scheme”) closed to new members in
2000 and closed to future service accrual in 2006. Executive Directors are eligible for membership of the
Defined Contribution Section of the Scheme.
Graham Holden is in receipt of a pension under the Defined Benefit Section of the Scheme with effect from
his early retirement at age 50 in December 2009 and the Company ceased making contributions into a pension
scheme on his behalf after that date.  
During the year, contributions to the Defined Contribution Section of the Scheme (employer contribution: 30
per cent of basic salary, minimum employee contribution: 4 per cent of basic salary) were made on behalf of
David Sarti. David Sarti elected to take fixed protection under pension regulations and ceased contributions
to the Scheme after August 2013. No contributions to the Scheme were made on behalf of Ian Burrell during
2013, as he elected to take fixed protection in 2012. Contributions into the Scheme on their behalf having
ceased, Graham Holden, Ian Burrell and David Sarti each receive as salary supplement a pensions allowance
equal to their contractual entitlement of 30 per cent of basic salary.
Martyn Coffey does not participate in the Scheme and in lieu of contributions into the Scheme receives an
annual pension allowance of £75,000.
Single Total Figure of Remuneration: Non-Executive Directors (Audited)
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Company's incentive arrangements.  Their fees are
reviewed periodically and were last reviewed in November 2013.  The Chairman's fees are set by the Committee
and the Chief Executive; other Non-Executive Director fees are set by the Board as a whole. The Non-Executive
Directors also received a fixed allowance for travel and accommodation associated with attendance at Board
Meetings, which is paid through payroll and shown below as a grossed up taxable amount.
Board fee Committee fees Allowance Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Andrew Allner
Chairman and Chairman 
of Nomination Committee 129 129 - - 10 10 139 139
Alan Coppin
Senior Independent 
Director, Chairman of 
Remuneration Committee,
Member of Audit and 
Nomination Committees 40 40 6 6 6 6 52 52
Mark Edwards
Chairman of Audit 
Committee, Member of 
Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees 40 40 6 6 6 6 52 52
Tim Pile
Member of Audit, 
Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees 40 40-- 6 6 46 46
Total 249 249 12 12 28 28 289 289 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 84
Aggregate Directors’ Emoluments
2013 2012
£'000 £'000
Salaries 918 886
Taxable benefits 55 40
PIP bonus 643 366
LTIP 3,537 475
Pensions allowances 261 265
NEDs fees and fixed allowances 289 289
Total 5,703 2,321
Note: This table includes the salary and benefits of both Graham Holden and Martyn Coffey relating to their respective periods of office as a Director
during the year. It also includes 2013 bonus and all future incentive awards payable upon Graham Holden’s retirement as a “good leaver” . A
breakdown is shown in Note (f) to the Single Figure Remuneration table on pages 78 and 79.
Payments for loss of office
Graham Holden resigned from the Board on 10 October 2013 and will remain in employment until his agreed
retirement date, expected to be 11 April 2014.
The Remuneration Committee has made the following determinations in respect of the incentive awards made
in connection with his role as an Executive Director:
Plan Committee Determination Outcome
PIP The Committee has determined
that Graham Holden is a “good
leaver”  under the rules of the
PIP .
Graham Holden will receive a PIP contribution to his Plan account in respect of the 2013
financial year, but he will not participate in any annual incentive scheme following the
end of the 2013 financial year. The balance in the Plan will pay out according to the rules
of the Plan on the date of his cessation of employment. The value of the balance of
Graham Holden’s Plan account calculated in accordance with the regulations is:
Number of shares in plan account as at 31 December 2013 x average share price over
the last quarter 
601,013 shares x 174.93 pence (average share price last quarter of 2013) = £1,051,352.
2005 LTIP
2012 Performance
Share Award
The Committee has determined
that Graham Holden is a “good
leaver” under the rules of the
2005 LTIP .
Awards are pro-rated for the period from the date of grant to the actual date of cessation
of employment and are subject to the proportionate satisfaction of the performance
conditions on the date of cessation. The maximum number of shares that could vest
based on an anticipated date of cessation of employment on 11 April 2014 and the level
of satisfaction of the performance conditions at 31 December 2013 is estimated at: 
(Number of shares granted) x Amount of vesting period completed on cessation x
Performance vesting percentage
397,022 x (832/1,096) days x 50% = 150,694 shares 
150,694 shares x 174.93 pence (average share price last quarter of 2013) = £263,609.
2005 LTIP
2013 Performance
Share Award
The Committee has determined
that Graham Holden is a “good
leaver” under the rules of the
2005 LTIP .
Same treatment as for the 2012 grant.
The maximum number of shares that could vest based on an anticipated date of cessation
of employment on 11 April 2014 and the level of satisfaction of the performance
conditions at 31 December 2013 is estimated at:
(Number of shares granted) x Amount of vesting period completed on cessation x
Performance vesting percentage
296,269 x (466/1,095) days x 50% = 63,042 shares 
63,042 shares x 174.93 pence (average share price last quarter of 2013) = £110,279. 85 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Graham Holden will continue to receive his current salary and benefits until the date of his cessation of
employment. He will not be entitled to participate in the MIP . There will be no loss of office payments on his
actual cessation of employment.
Payments to past Directors
Graham Holden resigned from the Board on 10 October 2013 and will remain in employment until 11 April
2014.  The amounts shown in the Single Figure Table in this Report include his salary and benefits up to 10
October 2013 and all variable remuneration, incentive awards granted to him as an Executive Director and
which will vest as a good leaver calculated in accordance with the Regulations, and benefits to which he was
entitled and/or which he received in or for the full year 2013, including variable remuneration relating to the
period between 10 October 2013 and 31 December 2013, as these are technically payments to a past Director
under the Regulations.
Five Y ear Total Shareholder Return
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Jan 09 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13
Marshalls plc
FTSE Small
Cap Index
This graph shows the Group’s total shareholder return (“TSR”) performance compared to the FTSE Small Cap
Index for the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2013.  TSR is defined as share price growth plus
reinvested dividends.  The FTSE Small Cap Index has been used for comparison, since Marshalls plc was a
constituent of the FTSE Small Cap Index throughout the period illustrated.  This graph shows the value at 31
December 2013 of £100 invested in Marshalls plc on 31 December 2009 compared with the value of £100
invested in the FTSE Small Cap Index.  The other plotted points are the intervening financial year ends. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 86
CEO pay in last 5 years
This table shows the pay for the CEO role and how it has changed in the last 5 years.  Graham Holden held this
role from the beginning of the period in question until 10 October 2013. The table also shows separately the
pay for Martyn Coffey between 10 October 2013 and 31 December 2013.
Graham Holden
Y ear 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Single figure remuneration 
(Note a) 711 671 752 938 2,900
% of maximum annual 
bonus earned 46.4% 38.6% 78.1% 33.0% 63.6%
% of maximum LTIP 
awards vesting 0 0 0 0 63.0%
Martyn Coffey
Y ear 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Single figure remuneration N/A N/A N/A N/A 243
% of maximum annual 
bonus earned N/A N/A N/A N/A 63.6%
% of maximum LTIP 
awards vesting N/A N/A N/A N/A 0
Note (a): The 2013 single figure for Graham Holden is made up of (i) base salary up to 10 October 2013 of £319,000, benefits of £10,000, and pension
allowance of £96,000 (ii) PIP annual bonus including deferred balance released early due to good leaver status of £1,313,000, and (iii) LTIP awards
vesting, including 2012 and 2013 awards vesting early on a pro rata basis due to good leaver status, of a value of £1,162,000.
Percentage Change in CEO’s Remuneration
The table below shows how the percentage change in the CEO's salary, benefits and bonus between 2012
and 2013 compares with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for the
UK-based employees of the Group as a whole.
Salary Percentage Taxable Percentage Bonus Percentage
change benefits change (Note b) increase
(Note a) (Note a)
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Graham Holden 319 412 10 12 262 170
Martyn Coffey 90 - 16 - 79 -
Sub-total 409 412 (0.7)% 26 12 116.7% 341 170 100.6%
UK total pay 65,102 67,735 2,528 2,686 1,267 861
Number of 
employees 2,041 2,207 454 504 272 274
Average per 
employee 31.9 30.7 3.9% 5.6 5.3 5.7% 4.7 3.1 51.6%
(a) Graham Holden’ s base salary is shown as £412,000 for the full year in each of 2012 and 2013, so the difference relates to the shorter period served
by Graham Holden as CEO between 1 January and 10 October 2013. Martyn Coffey’s salary relates to the period from 10 October 2013 (when he
became CEO) to 31 December 2013. The annual salary for the CEO in 2014 (£400,000) is 3 per cent below the annual salary for the previous CEO
in 2013 (£412,000). Graham Holden voluntarily elected to waive an amount of deferred PIP in 2013 equal to 20 per cent of his base salary. The
effect of this on overall remuneration is not shown in the above table because it has been deducted from his deferred PIP balance rather than as
a reduction in base salary. The taxable benefits figure includes the initial 3 year travel allowance for Martyn Coffey. 
(b) The bonus is the non-deferred contribution to the PIP account for the relevant year.  100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
(–9.1%)
£’m
(0%)
(–55.1%)
(–13.8%)
Percentage Change
2011 2012 2013
Staff pay (£m)
2011 2012 2013
Distributions to
shareholders (£m)
2011 2012 2013
Capital investment
(£m)
2011 2012 2013
Tax (£m)
87 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay
The above graph illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay compared with other disbursements from
profit (i.e. distributions to shareholders, investment for future growth and tax). These were the most significant
outgoings for the Company in the last financial year. Spend on shareholders remained constant over the last
3 years, while the reduction in spend on pay, investment and taxation reflect the efficiency measures taken
by the Company during the economic downturn.
The Directors of the Company believe that it is beneficial to show the comparison with two additional uses of
the profit generated by the Company for the following reasons:
• Investment – the Company restricted investment during the economic downturn, but expects to invest
strategically over the next period to take advantage of the more positive economic conditions and in order
to ensure that the business grows in a sustainable manner with the corresponding long-term benefit for all
stakeholders; and
• Tax – the Company is a UK taxpayer and feels that it is beneficial to demonstrate to all its stakeholders its
total UK tax contribution.  The most significant elements of the Company's UK tax contribution are VAT,
employer’s NI, fuel duty and aggregates levy.  As profitability increases, corporation tax will also increase.
Statement of Implementation of Remuneration Policy in the following Financial Y ear (2014)
Executive Directors: 
Salary
The Committee approved a 3.5 per cent salary increase for Executive Directors effective from 1 January 2014,
in line with inflation and increases for UK employees generally. In practice the increase applies to Ian Burrell
only, as Martyn Coffey’s salary was fixed on appointment until 1 January 2015, and David Sarti did not receive
an increase in view of his retirement at the end of 2014.
Director 1 January 2014 1 January 2013 Percentage increase
£'000 £'000 %
Martyn Coffey 400 N/A N/A
Ian Burrell 245 237 3.5
David Sarti 237 237 0 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 88
Benefits and Pension
Benefits will continue during 2014 as shown in the Remuneration Policy.
All Executive Directors have elected to take their pension in the form of a pensions allowance. Martyn Coffey
is entitled to a fixed allowance of £75,000 annually.  Other Executive Directors are entitled to an allowance of
30 per cent of base salary.
Bonus and Incentives
MIP
An award will be made to Executive Directors under the MIP following shareholder approval. The performance
conditions and weighting for the operation of awards under the MIP are:
Criteria Percentage of Maximum Award
EPS 60%
Net Debt 30%
Export Sales 10%
Element A has a forfeiture threshold set annually at the time of grant. If this is breached, 50 per cent of the
carried-over balance from previous years in Element A of the MIP account is forfeited.
Element B has a long term financial underpin based on a minimum EPS threshold set at the time of grant that
must be maintained over the three years from the date of grant. If this is breached, 50 per cent of the Element
B award is forfeited.
Minimum (0 per cent) and maximum (100 per cent)  targets are set annually. There will be straight line vesting
between the minimum and maximum targets. On-target performance delivers 70 per cent of the maximum
Award.
Additional performance conditions:
• Customer Service (at or above 95 per cent); and
• Health and Safety incidence (reduction of 10 per cent).
There is a reduction of award value earned by 20 per cent if these additional conditions are not met. 
The first measurement period under the MIP by reference to which these targets must be met will be the full
financial year ending 31 December 2014. It is the view of the Committee that the targets for the MIP are
commercially sensitive as they are primarily related to budgeted future profit and debt levels in the Company
and therefore their disclosure in advance is not in the interests of the Company or shareholders. The Committee
will, however, provide full retrospective disclosure to enable shareholders to judge the level of award provided
against the targets set. 
L TIP 2014
An award of Performance Shares equal to 100 per cent of base salary will be made to Executive Directors under
the LTIP . The performance conditions for this award are set out in the Remuneration Policy  on pages 67 to 77.
Historic Policy payments under the PIP
In accordance with the Group's previous remuneration policy, 50 per cent of PIP plan account balances will
be paid in March 2014 with the balance being paid in March 2015 provided a participant remains employed.
Non-Executive Directors 
The Board approved an increase in the fee by 3.5 per cent from 1 January 2014, in line with Executive Directors
and employees. In addition, taking account of the PwC benchmarking review in November 2013, Alan Coppin's
base fee was increased by £1,000 from 1 January 2014 to recognise his role as the Senior Independent Director
(“SID”). There was no increase in the annual travel and expenses allowance, which will continue to be paid in
accordance with the Remuneration Policy. 89 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Director 1 January 2014 1 January 2013 Percentage increase
£'000 £'000 %
Andrew Allner (Chairman) 134 129 3.5
Alan Coppin (SID) 48 46 5.0
Mark Edwards 47 46 3.5
Tim Pile 41 40 3.5
Total shareholdings of Directors (Audited)
In order that their interests are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors are expected to build
up and maintain a meaningful shareholding in the Company. There are no minimum holding requirements
for Non-Executive Directors, but they would usually be expected to hold some shares in the Company.
The shareholding requirements for Executive Directors are as follows:
Executive Director Percentage of Salary Timescale to achieve/achieved
Martyn Coffey 200% Within 5 years of appointment
Graham Holden 200% Yes
Ian Burrell 100% Yes
David Sarti 100% Yes
The following table sets out, in respect of each of the Directors:
1. The number of shares the Director holds unconditionally to meet the requirement (where applicable);
2. The number of deferred and conditional shares held under the PIP; and
3. The number of shares subject to unvested LTIP awards.
Shareholding Requirement Unconditional Shares LTIP/PIP Unvested and Total interests
that will Contingent LTIP/ in shares
vest unconditionally deferred PIP (including
on 2013 results Awards contingent
(Note b) Performance interests)
Shares (Note c)
Director Percentage of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of
salary required (Note a) Shares held Shares held Shares held Shares
Martyn Coffey 200 453,900 - - 288,409 288,409
Graham Holden 200 467,518 458,036 1,200,372 693,291 2,351,699
Ian Burrell 100 139,116 160,524 259,086 618,530 1,038,140
David Sarti 100 134,411 176,579 259,086 618,530 1,054,195
Non-Executive
Andrew Allner - - 35,000 - - 35,000
Alan Coppin - - 10,000 - - 10,000
Mark Edwards - - 49,000 - - 49,000
Tim Pile - - 34,740 - - 34,740
(a) The closing price of 176.25 pence per share on 31 December 2013 has been used to measure the number of shares required. In previous years the Company calculated the number of
shares required by reference to their cost on the acquisition date. 
(b) Following announcement of the 2013 Annual Results, 50 per cent of the deferred PIP balance as at 31 December 2013, 100 per cent of Matching Shares awarded in 2011 and 50 per cent
of Performance Shares awarded in 2011 are expected to vest. In the case of non-retiring Executive Directors, the deferred PIP balance released is paid in cash and is not shown in this
table. Graham Holden will receive his full deferred PIP balance in shares as a good leaver in 2014, and this column includes these PIP shares as well as the 2011 LTIP award that will vest
on his retirement.
(c) These shares will not vest until the performance conditions have been met over the relevant measurement period. Graham Holden is expected to receive 213,736 shares out of his 2012
and 2013 LTIP entitlement as a “good leaver” on 11 April 2014 on a pro-rata basis.  His remaining balance of 479,555 shares will lapse.  See Remuneration Policy for an explanation of
the operation of the PIP and LTIP .
(d) There were no changes between 1 January 2014 and 26 March 2014 save that Ian Burrell acquired 208 shares and David Sarti acquired 140 shares respectively in the Marshalls plc Share
Purchase Plan (the “SPP”). See Remuneration Policy for a summary of the SPP .
(e) The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the SPP , the PIP or the LTIP .
(e) None of the Directors held any options during the year other than approved options under the LTIP as listed as shown above, nor did they hold any interests in derivatives or other
financial instruments relating to the Company’s shares.
The table includes the interests of “connected persons” as defined under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.  Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 90
The Committee and its advisors
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee’s responsibilities include:
• Setting remuneration policy for Executive Directors;
• Determining specific remuneration packages for Executive Directors and for the Chairman;
• Operating the Company’s employee share incentive arrangements;
• Providing guidance on remuneration for senior employees who report to the CEO; and
• Considering the broader remuneration policies for Group employees below Board level.
The Committee’s agreed terms of reference are available on the Company’s website (www.marshalls.co.uk)
and on request from the Company Secretary.
The Board determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors. No Director plays a part in any
decision about his own remuneration.  Alan Coppin, Mark Edwards and Tim Pile are all independent Non-
Executive Directors within the definition of the Code, and Andrew Allner satisfied the independence condition
on his appointment as Non-Executive Chairman in 2010. None of them have any personal financial interest
(other than as shareholders) in matters to be decided, nor do they have any conflicts of interest from cross-
directorships or any day-to-day involvement in running the business.   
The Company's external remuneration advisers, PwC, attend meetings of the Committee by invitation.  The
Chief Executive attends as appropriate but may not participate in discussions about his own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and attends Committee meetings.
PwC were appointed by the Committee following a competitive tender in 2010 and their fees are agreed by
the Remuneration Committee according to the work performed. Terms of engagement are available from the
Company Secretary. The Committee is satisfied that the advice from PwC is independent based on the
separation of the team advising the Committee from any other work undertaken by PwC and the fact that
PwC is a signatory to the Remuneration Advisors Code of Conduct. PwC’s work relating to executive
remuneration during 2013 is summarised below. 
Nature of work 
• Review of current incentive arrangements;
• Advice on new scheme design;
• Support on shareholder consultation;
• Assistance in the preparation of the Remuneration Committee Report;
• Benchmarking of total remuneration in respect of the Company and its comparator group; 
• Advice on the remuneration package in the context of the new CEO appointment; and
• Attendance at the Remuneration Committee meetings to provide advice when required.
PwC also provided advice to the Company during the year in relation to corporate tax matters.  The fees paid
to PwC for remuneration advice during 2013 were £80,000.
Statement of Shareholder Voting
The table below shows the May 2013 AGM voting results on Resolution 12 (approval of the Company’s 2012
Remuneration Report). 
For For as a Against Against as a Withheld
percentage of percentage of
votes cast votes cast
Votes 144,736,331 99.59 597,472 0.41 720,069
The Committee believes the percentage of votes in favour of the Remuneration Report shows very strong
shareholder support for the Group’s remuneration arrangements. 91 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Report of the Audit Committee
Chairman's Annual Statement
Dear Shareholder
I am delighted to present on behalf of the Board the Report of the
Audit Committee for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The role of the Audit Committee is to oversee financial reporting and
to review the ongoing effectiveness of the Group's internal controls.
The Committee provides assurance on the Group's risk management
processes and assesses information received by external audit and
the internal audit function.  The Committee continues to work
closely with the external Auditors and the Group's Risk Committee.
The main area of focus during the year has been to consider the critical accounting judgements and the key
operational and financial risks facing the Group.  The Committee has reviewed the Group's Financial Statements
and has provided assurance to the Board that they present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment
of the Group's position and prospects.
This report explains how the Audit Committee has discharged its responsibilities during 2013, and reflects
the recent changes to audit reporting under the Code. I hope you find it useful and informative.
Mark Edwards
Chairman of the Audit Committee
During the year, the Audit Committee held 4 formal meetings and there were also meetings between the
Audit Chairman, the Group Finance Director and the external Auditors. The key responsibilities of the
Committee are:
• To keep under review the Group’s financial and other systems and controls and financial reporting
procedures;
• To plan and scope the annual audit and half-yearly audit review, receive audit reports and review financial
statements, taking account of accounting policies adopted and applicable reporting requirements;
• To review the Annual Report and advise the Board on whether it gives a fair, balanced and understandable
explanation of the Group’s business and performance over the relevant period;
• To conduct a detailed review of internal controls and the internal audit process and report findings at least
twice yearly to the Board;
• To review and update the Group’s risk register;
• To review external auditor independence and audit and non-audit fees, and make recommendations
regarding audit tender and the appointment and remuneration of auditors; and
• To review the Anti-Bribery Code and procedures, the Serious Concerns Policy and other policies relevant
to financial security, compliance and business ethics.
The main role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in written Terms of Reference available
on the Company’s website at www.marshalls.co.uk.  The Audit Committee is the body appointed by the Board
with responsibility for carrying out the functions required by the Listing Rules DTR 7.1.3R.
Mark Edwards Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 92
The members of the Committee are the independent Non-Executive Directors identified on pages 48 and 49.
The Chairman of the Committee is a Chartered Accountant and the Board is satisfied he has recent and relevant
financial experience as required by the Code. Other members also have relevant financial experience. 
The Committee’s performance was evaluated during 2013 as part of the Board evaluation process described
in the Corporate Governance Report, and its terms of reference were updated to reflect the Code published
in September 2012. 
Highlights of 2013
When reviewing the annual and half-yearly results, the Committee exercises its judgment in relation to matters
drawn to its attention by the Group Finance Director, the Internal Audit function, the Risk Committee and the
Group’s external Auditors. The Committee meets the external Auditors independently of management, and
has visibility of matters that have been the subject of particular discussions. The Committee also reports to
the Board in relation to the going concern statement and whether the accounts are fair, balanced and
understandable.
The Committee identified the carrying value of goodwill and the recoverable value of finished goods inventory
as two potential significant risks.
Carrying Value of Goodwill
Note 12 on pages 124 and 125 of the Financial Statements describes the estimation techniques used by
management to assess whether there has been an impairment to the carrying value of goodwill.
The Committee considered and critically reviewed the assumptions used in management's impairment
calculations.  This included considering the basis for key assumptions and comparing these to previously
approved budgets, industry forecast growth rates and external advice on discount rates to be applied.  They
considered the views of the external Auditor on this issue.  This included a review of the sensitivity analysis
undertaken by the external Auditor.  On the basis of this review, the Committee agreed with management
that no impairment to goodwill and other intangible assets was necessary.
Recoverable Value of Finished Goods Inventory
The Committee critically reviewed the carrying value of the Group's finished goods inventory, particularly with
regard to management's assessment of the appropriate level of provisioning against inventory obsolescence.
The gross levels of finished goods inventory held and the provisions recorded against obsolescence were
presented to the Committee.  This analysis was reviewed in the context of current trading and forecast for the
next financial year.  In addition, the external Auditors presented their findings with regard to the key audit
testing over inventory valuation.  The Committee concurred with management's assessment of the carrying
value of Group inventories.
Other Matters
Other matters considered by the Audit Committee included the accounting treatment of the discontinued
business, taxation, pensions and share-based expenses.
External Audit, Auditor Independence and Objectivity
The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making a recommendation on the appointment, re-
appointment and removal of the external Auditor to the Board. It keeps under review the scope and results
of the audit, its cost-effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the Auditor.  The Audit Committee
has reviewed the independence and objectivity of the Auditor and considers that the appointed auditors, 93 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
KPMG Audit Plc, are independent and remain objective. KPMG Audit Plc have provided audit services to the
Company since 1987, although their internal processes ensure that the audit partner and audit team within
KPMG Audit Plc who conduct the Group audit are rotated every 5 years. The current audit partner will retire
by rotation at the end of 2014. The Committee is mindful of the recommendations of the Code in relation to
rotation and audit tender, and of the Competition Commission Order relating to the statutory audit market.
Accordingly, it is anticipated that a tender process will be commenced in the next 12 months with a view to
proposing an appointment which will be approved at the Company’s 2015 Annual General Meeting. The
present auditors would be expected to complete the 2014 audit. 
The Committee takes account of the processes in place within KPMG Audit Plc designed to maintain
independence, and has adopted procedures to safeguard independence. Any work awarded to the external
auditors with a value of more than £25,000, or £50,000 in aggregate in any financial year, other than audit and
tax compliance, requires the specific approval of the Audit Committee, and where the Committee perceives
that the independence of the auditors could be compromised, the work will not be awarded to them. Details
of amounts paid to the external auditors for audit and non-audit services in 2013 are analysed in Note 3 on
page 115, with the amount paid for non-audit work representing approximately £6,000 (4 per cent) of total
fees paid to the external Auditors in 2013. This was for services associated with the corporate tax compliance
procedures.  The aggregate amount paid to other firms of accountants for non-audit services in the same
period was £267,000 (2012: £155,000).
The auditors have advised that the entity which carries out the Company’s audit, KPMG Audit Plc, will be wound
down and will be replaced for future audit work by KPMG LLP .  The Committee has recommended to the Board
that a resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as auditors should be put to shareholders at the Company’s Annual
General Meeting on 14 May 2014.
Risk Management
The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of ongoing control, and for ensuring
that it meets the necessary standards. The Group’s risk management and internal control systems are subject
to a full formal review by the Audit Committee twice a year. They are also subject to a regular rolling
programme of review, the results of which are periodically reported to the Board. The Group’s Risk Committee,
comprising the Executive Directors, which reports directly to the Board, identifies, evaluates and takes steps
to manage any material risks which might threaten the Group’s business objectives.  Regular risk reviews and
an annual risk assessment report are carried out by the relevant senior managers and reported to the Risk
Committee. These are included in a Risk Register that identifies the Group’s key risk areas, the probability of
these risks occurring and the impact they would have, giving each risk a relative weighting reflecting its
potential impact on the Group.  Against each such risk, the controls that exist to manage and, where possible,
minimise or eliminate those risks are also listed.  The Risk Register helps to identify areas for action, and uses
programmes including independent audit assessments that are designed to test the effectiveness of the
Group’s risk control systems.  Information in relation to the management of risks and any changes to key risks
or weighting is regularly reported to the Board, and the Risk Register is updated to reflect changes in
circumstances or priorities. To the extent that any failings or weaknesses are identified during the review
process, appropriate measures are taken to remedy these. In addition to the major risk review process, the
Group has an established internal control framework, the key features of which include clearly defined
reporting lines and authorisation procedures and a comprehensive budget and monthly reporting system.
The internal control framework governs the internal financial reporting process of the business, with checks
and balances built into the system that are designed to reduce the likelihood of material error or fraud. 
The Audit Committee has carried out an assessment of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and
internal control system, covering all material controls including its financial, operational and compliance Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 94
controls and risk management systems for the year to 31 December 2013. The Report of the Audit Committee,
which is incorporated by reference into the Directors' Report, provides further information on the internal
control and risk management systems in place in connection with financial reporting.
Internal Controls and Audit
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal control activities. The current process,
under which firms of external accountants, that are independent from the Company’s external Auditors and
have no other connection with the Group, carry out regular internal audit assignments of a financial and
systems nature, has been reviewed and is regarded as an effective means of managing the internal audit
function. The Audit Committee notes that the Company has implemented and continued to operate a self
certification internal control process to support the internal audit process throughout the year. The Audit
Committee monitors and reviews the internal audit programme, which includes both regular audit checks
and assignments to look at areas of critical importance; for example during 2013 there were specific
assignments in relation to IT systems and the Group’s purchasing activities. The results are reported to the
Audit Committee.  These assignments form part of a much wider programme of independently audited aspects
of the Group’s operations. Any areas of weakness that are identified through this process prompt a detailed
action plan and a follow up audit check to establish that actions have been completed. Instances of fraud or
attempted fraud (if any) and preventative action plans are also reported to the Committee.
The Committee is pleased to report that no significant failings or weaknesses were identified during the year,
and there were no losses identified as a result of fraud.
Whistleblowing and Bribery
The Audit Committee monitors any reported incidents under the Serious Concerns Policy (Whistle-blowing
Policy) which is available to all employees. This policy is displayed on operating site notice boards and on the
Company’s intranet, and sets out the procedure for employees to raise legitimate concerns about any wrong-
doing without fear of criticism, discrimination or reprisal. The Serious Concerns Policy was reviewed during
the year and the Audit Committee was satisfied that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and
independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action. During 2013 the Committee
recorded a single allegation of financial impropriety at one of the Group’s operating sites which was
investigated fully but was not found to be substantiated. 
The Audit Committee also takes responsibility for reviewing the policies and procedures adopted by the
Company to prevent bribery. The Company is committed to a zero-tolerance position with regard to bribery,
made explicit through its Anti-Bribery Code and supporting guidance for its employees, agents and contractors
on hospitality and gifts. The policy and procedures are published on the Company website and displayed on
operating site notice boards. There is an online compliance training module for employees to reinforce the
Anti-Bribery Code and procedures, which has to date been completed by 217 employees in decision-making
roles with potential exposure to bribery risk (78 per cent of target).There is a maintained register of employee
interests, and a gifts and hospitality record. The internal audit review programme includes a review of the
adequacy of the Company’s procedures in relation to the prevention of bribery.
The Report of the Audit Committee has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Mark Edwards
Chairman of the Audit Committee
26 March 2014 95 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Independent Auditor’s Report to The Members of
Marshalls plc Only
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1 Our opinion on the Financial Statements is unmodified 
We have audited the Financial Statements of Marshalls plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on
pages 98 to 150. In our opinion:
• the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s
affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;  
• the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union;  
• the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting
Standards; and
• the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act
2006; and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.  
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Financial Statements the risks of material misstatement that had
the greatest effect on our audit were as follows:
Carrying value of Goodwill (Balance sheet value £35 million).
Refer to page 92 (Report of the Audit Committee), pages 108 and 109 (accounting policy) and pages 124 to
125 (financial disclosure).
The risk
All the goodwill in the Group is held within the Landscape Cash Generating Unit ("CGU").  The recession has
had a significant impact on the construction industry leading to reduced sales volumes and decreased margins.
The potential continuing impact of the recession on future trading results increases the inherent uncertainty
involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which are the basis of the assessment of
recoverability of goodwill. The Directors review goodwill for impairment annually as described in Note 12 and
based on this review did not consider it necessary to record a goodwill impairment charge in the year ended
31 December 2013. The key assumptions which could have an impact on the value in use include the assumed
revenue and margin growth rates, and the discount rate. Due to the potential for a significant variance in the
recoverable value if different assumptions were used this is considered a key audit risk. 
Our response
Our audit procedures included, among others, testing the mathematical accuracy of the value in use model
used, comparison of the input assumptions of growth rates to externally derived data including a comparison
to the Construction Products Association ("CPA") industry growth forecasts and assessing the appropriateness
of the discount rate. We also performed independent sensitivity analysis to evaluate the impact that reasonably
possible changes in the assumptions would have on the CGU’s recoverable amount and considered the
accuracy of prior years forecasts. We considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures (see Note 12) in
respect of impairment testing and whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment
assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the key assumptions and
the requirements of accounting standards.  Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 96
Recoverable value of Finished Goods Inventory (Balance sheet value £56 million).
Refer to page 92 (Report of the Audit Committee), page 110 (accounting policy) and page 126 (financial
disclosure).
The risk
As described in Note 1(j), The Directors record inventory at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The
Group holds a large amount of inventories in order to meet customer demand. The non-perishable nature of
the inventories, the business model of production across multiple locations and the wide range of product
lines contribute to a high inventory holding.  There is a risk that inventory lines which have been held for a
significant period of time could have a reduced recoverable value as management may have to significantly
discount the products in order to sell them. Therefore this is considered a key audit risk. 
Our response
Our audit procedures included, among others, the use of data analysis techniques to compare on a product
by product basis, inventory on hand at the year end and respective sales history in order to build
independently a profile of inventory ageing and assess the length of time expected to take the inventory to
sell. We then further analysed any inventory lines which are slow moving and considered their realisable value
in the context of recent trading performance and the provisions held.  We also assessed the overall level of
inventory provisions made by the Directors based on our knowledge of recent margins achieved by the Group
across its product range.  In order to assess the accuracy of management’s previous estimates we analysed
the throughput of inventory previously identified as slow moving and reviewed the movement in the level of
inventory provisions from prior periods and the level of inventory write offs. We also considered whether
disclosures about the carrying value of inventory and write downs made during the year met the requirements
of the accounting standards.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was set at £1.3 million. This has been determined
with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax (of which it represents 10 per cent), which we
consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial
performance of the Group. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified
through our audit with a value in excess of £65,000, in addition to other audit misstatements below that
threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
Our audit of the UK entities covered 95 per cent of Group revenue, 89 per cent of the total profits and losses
that made up Group profit before tax and 93 per cent of Group assets. An overseas subsidiary, Marshalls NV,
based in Belgium, represents the remaining 5 per cent of revenue, 11 per cent of the total profits and losses
that made up Group profit before tax and 7 per cent of total Group assets. 
A local statutory audit is performed over the Belgian subsidiary, Marshalls NV but this is completed after the
date of this report.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion:  
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 2006; 97 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
• the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the
Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements; and  
• the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 50 to 59 in the Directors'
Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting
processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial Statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception  
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during
our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency
with either that knowledge or the Financial Statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise
misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and
the Directors’ Statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a
whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to
assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy; or
• the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the
Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:  
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our
audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or  
• the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited
are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or  
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or  
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ Statement, set out on page 58, in relation to going concern; and
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 50 to 55 relating to the Company’s compliance
with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; 
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities. 
Scope of report and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 57 and 58, the Directors
are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true
and fair view. A description of the scope of an audit of Financial Statements is provided on the Financial
Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely to the
Company’s members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our
responsibilities, published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2013a, which are
incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose
of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Chris Hearld (Senior Statutory Auditor)  
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor  
Chartered Accountants  
1 The Embankment, Neville Street, Leeds, LS1 4DW
26 March 2014 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 98
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Before
operational Operational
restructuring restructuring
costs and costs and
asset asset
impairments impairments Total
2013 2012* 2012* 2012*
Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 2 307,390 300,938 - 300,938
Net operating costs 3 (291,300) (288,087) (21,521) (309,608)
------------------- ------------------- ------------------- -------------------
Operating profit / (loss) 2 16,090 12,851 (21,521) (8,670)
Financial expenses 6 (3,649) (4,291) - (4,291)
Financial income 6 585 713 - 713
------------------- ------------------- ------------------- -------------------
Profit / (loss) before tax 2 13,026 9,273 (21,521) (12,248)
Income tax (expense) / credit 7 (67) 1,507 4,367 5,874
------------------- ------------------- ------------------- -------------------
Profit / (loss) for the financial period before
post tax profit of discontinued operations 12,959 10,780 (17,154) (6,374)
Post tax profit of discontinued operations 8 503 676 - 676
------------------- ------------------- ------------------- - ------------------
Profit / (loss) for the financial period 13,462 11,456 (17,154) (5,698)
------------------- ------------------- ------------------- -------------------
Profit / (loss) for the period
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent 14,096 11,470 (17,154) (5,684)
Non-controlling interests (634) (14) - (14)
------------------- ------------------- ------------------- -------------------
13,462 11,456 (17,154) (5,698)
------------------- ------------------- ------------------- -------------------
Earnings per share (total operations):
Basic 9 7.20p 5.87p (2.91)p
------------------- ------------------- -------------------
Diluted 9 7.07p 5.75p (2.91)p
------------------- ------------------- -------------------
Earnings per share (continuing operations):
Basic 9 6.94p 5.52p (3.26)p
------------------- ------------------- -------------------
Diluted 9 6.82p 5.41p (3.26)p
------------------- ------------------- -------------------
Dividend:
Pence per share 10 5.25p 5.25p
------------------- -------------------
Dividends declared 10 10,292 10,292
------------------- -------------------
* The comparatives have been restated in respect of discontinued operations (Note 8) and in respect of the revisions to
IAS19 - "Employee Benefits (2011)" (Note 20). 99 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2013
2013 2012*
£’000 £’000
Profit for the financial period** 13,462 11,456
Operational restructuring costs and asset impairments - (17,154)
------------------- -------------------
Profit / (loss)  for the financial period 13,462 (5,698)
------------------- -------------------
Other comprehensive income / (expense)
Items that will not be reclassified to the Income Statement:
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (18,735) (9,063)
Deferred tax arising 3,747 2,084
Deferred tax on share-based payments 176 -
------------------- -------------------
Total items that will not be reclassified to the Income Statement: (14,812) (6,979)
------------------- -------------------
Items that are or may in the future be reclassified to the Income Statement:
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 2,787 (2,050)
Fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to the Income Statement (1,447) 840
Deferred tax arising (286) 298
Impact of the change in rate of deferred taxation 275 360
Foreign currency translation differences - foreign operations (51) 116
Foreign currency translation differences - non-controlling interests 45 (106)
Total items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to the Income ------------------- -------------------
Statement: 1,323 (542)
------------------- -------------------
Other comprehensive income / (expense) for period, net of income tax (13,489) (7,521)
------------------- -------------------
Total comprehensive income / (expense) for the period (27) (13,219)
------------------ ------------------
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent 562 (13,099)
Non-controlling interests (589) (120)
------------------- -------------------
(27) (13,219)
------------------ ------------------
** The comparatives have been restated in respect of discontinued operations (Note 8).
** 2012 before operational restructuring costs and asset impairments. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 100
Consolidated Balance Sheet
at 31 December 2013
Notes 2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 154,721 175,607
Intangible assets 12 41,071 41,413
Investment in associates 13 664 650
Employee benefits 20 - 8,212
Deferred taxation assets 21 1,626 -
------------------- -------------------
198,082 225,882
------------------- -------------------
Current assets
Inventories 14 70,807 75,416
Trade and other receivables 15 32,373 30,218
Cash and cash equivalents 16 17,652 11,101
------------------- -------------------
120,832 116,735
------------------- -------------------
Total assets 318,914 342,617
------------------- -------------------
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 17 65,882 61,513
Corporation tax 4,802 2,828
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 18 3,453 99
------------------- -------------------
74,137 64,440
------------------- -------------------
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 18 49,768 74,545
Employee benefits 20 4,347 -
Deferred taxation liabilities 21 15,230 20,058
------------------- -------------------
69,345 94,603
------------------- -------------------
Total liabilities 143,482 159,043
------------------- -------------------
Net assets 175,432 183,574
------------------- -------------------
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 
Share capital 22 49,845 49,845
Share premium account 22,695 22,695
Own shares (9,512) (9,571)
Capital redemption reserve 75,394 75,394
Consolidation reserve (213,067) (213,067)
Hedging reserve (162) (1,216)
Retained earnings 246,944 255,610
------------------- -------------------
Equity attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 172,137 179,690
Non-controlling interests 23 3,295 3,884
------------------- -------------------
Total equity 175,432 183,574
------------------- -------------------
Approved at a Directors’ meeting on 26 March 2014.
On behalf of the Board:
M. Coffey I.D. Burrell
Chief Executive Finance Director
The Notes on pages 104 to 143 form part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 101 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
2013 2012
£'000 £'000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the financial period* 13,462 11,456
Operational restructuring costs and asset impairments - (17,154)
------------------- -------------------
Profit / (loss) for the financial period 13,462 (5,698)
Income tax expense / (credit) on continuing operations 67 (1,507)
Income tax credit on operational restructuring costs and asset impairments - (4,367)
Profit on disposal and closure of discontinued operations (272) -
Income tax credit on discontinued operations 110 402
------------------- -------------------
Profit / (loss) before tax on total operations 13,367 (11,170)
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 13,455 14,783
Amortisation 938 1,247
Operational restructuring costs and asset impairments - 21,521
Share of results of associates (14) (28)
Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment (131) (1,944)
Gain on exchange of property - (594)
Equity settled share-based expenses 2,353 468
Financial income and expenses (net) 3,064 3,578
------------------- -------------------
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital and pension scheme
contributions 33,032 27,861
(Increase) / decrease in trade and other receivables (2,933) 9,970
Decrease in inventories 2,840 4,968
Increase / (decrease) in trade and other payables 5,146 (2,742)
Operational restructuring costs paid (870) (7,431)
Pension Scheme contributions (5,600) (3,600)
------------------- -------------------
Cash generated from the operations 31,615 29,026
Financial expenses paid (3,649) (4,292)
Income tax paid (842) (46)
------------------- -------------------
Net cash flow from operating activities 27,124 24,688
------------------- -------------------
Cash flows from investing activities
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 175 8,595
Financial income received 9 4
Net proceeds from disposal of discontinued operations 16,999 150
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (5,462) (8,307)
Acquisition of intangible assets (596) (1,212)
------------------- -------------------
Net cash flow from investing activities 11,125 (770)
------------------- -------------------
Cash flows from financing activities
Payments to acquire own shares - (57)
Net (decrease)  / increase in other debt and finance leases (95) 154
Decrease in borrowings (21,328) (8,609)
Equity dividends paid (10,292) (10,292)
------------------- -------------------
Net cash flow from financing activities (31,715) (18,804)
------------------- -------------------
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 6,534 5,114
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 11,101 5,998
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations 17 (11)
------------------- -------------------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period 17,652 11,101
------------------- -------------------
* 2012 before operational restructuring costs and asset impairments.
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2013 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 102
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Share Capital Non-
Share premium Own redemption Consolidation Hedging Retained controlling Total
capital account shares reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Current year
At 1 January 2013 49,845 22,695 (9,571) 75,394 (213,067) (1,216) 255,610 179,690 3,884 183,574
------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ - ----------------- ------------------ ------------------
Total comprehensive
income / (expense)
for the period
Profit for the financial
period attributable to
equity shareholders of
the parent - - - - - - 14,096 14,096 (634) 13,462
Other comprehensive
income / (expense)
Foreign currency
translation differences - - - - - - (51) (51) 45 (6)
Effective portion of
changes in fair value of
cash flow hedges - - - - - 2,787 - 2,787 - 2,787
Net change in fair value of 
cash flow hedges transferred 
to the Income Statement - - - - - (1,447) - (1,447) - (1,447)
Deferred tax arising - - - - - (286) - (286) - (286)
Defined benefit plan
actuarial losses - - - - - - (18,735) (18,735) - (18,735)
Deferred tax arising - - - - - - 3,747 3,747 - 3,747
Deferred tax on share-based
payments - - - - - - 176 176 - 176
Impact of the change in
rate of deferred taxation - - - - - - 275 275 - 275
------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ - ----------------- ------------------ ------------------
Total other
comprehensive
income / (expense) - - - - - 1,054 (14,588) (13,534) 45 (13,489)
------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ - ----------------- ------------------ ------------------
Total comprehensive
income / (expense)
for the period - - - - - 1,054 (492) 562 (589) (27)
--------------------- --------------------- --------------------- --------------------- --------------------- --------------------- - -------------------- --------------------- --------------------- ---------------------
Transactions with owners,
recorded directly in equity
Contributions by and
distributions to owners
Share-based expenses - - - - - - 2,177 2,177 - 2,177
Dividends to equity
shareholders - - - - - - (10,292) (10,292) - (10,292)
Disposal of own shares - - 59 - - - (59) - - -
------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ - ----------------- ------------------ ------------------
Total contributions by
and distributions to
owners - - 59 - - - (8,174) (8,115) - (8,115)
------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ - ----------------- ------------------ - -----------------
Total transactions with
owners of the Company - - 59 - - 1,054 (8,666) (7,553) (589) (8,142)
------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ - ----------------- ------------------ ------------------
At 31 December 2013 49,845 22,695 (9,512) 75,394 (213,067) (162) 246,944 172,137 3,295 175,432
--------------------- --------------------- --------------------- --------------------- --------------------- --------------------- - -------------------- --------------------- --------------------- ------------------ 103 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Share Capital Non-
Share premium Own redemption Consolidation Hedging Retained controlling T otal
capital account shares reserve reserve reserve earnings T otal interests equity
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Prior year
At 1 January 2012 49,845 22,695 (9,514) 75,394 (213,067) (304) 277,621 202,670 3,394 206,064
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ------- -------- ---------------
Total comprehensive
income / (expense) 
for the period
Loss for the financial
period attributable to
equity shareholders 
of the parent - - - - - - (5,684) (5,684) (14) (5,698)
Other comprehensive
income / (expense)
Foreign currency
translation differences - - - - - - 116 116 (106) 10
Effective portion of
changes in fair value of
cash flow hedges - - - - - (2,050) - (2,050) - (2,050)
Net change in fair value
of cash flow hedges
transferred to the 
Income Statement - - - - - 840 - 840 - 840
Deferred tax arising - - - - - 298 - 298 - 298
Defined benefit plan
actuarial losses - - - - - - (9,063) (9,063) - (9,063)
Deferred tax arising - - - - - - 2,084 2,084 - 2,084
Impact of the change in
rate of deferred taxation - - - - - - 360 360 - 360
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ------- -------- ---------------
Total other
comprehensive
income / (expense) - - - - - (912) (6,503) (7,415) (106) (7,521)
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ------- -------- ---------------
Total comprehensive 
income / (expense) 
for the period - - - - - (912) (12,187) (13,099) (120) (13,219)
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -------- --------- ----------------- -----------------
Transactions with
owners, recorded
directly in equity
Contributions by and 
distributions to owners
Share-based expenses - - - - - - 468 468 - 468
Dividends to equity
shareholders - - - - - - (10,292) (10,292) - (10,292)
Purchase of own shares - - (57) - - - - (57) - (57)
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ------- -------- ---------------
Total contributions by
and distributions to
owners - - (57) - - - (9,824) (9,881) - (9,881)
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ------- -------- ---------------
Changes in ownership 
interests in subsidiaries
Issue of shares - - - - - - - - 610 610
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ------- -------- ---------------
Total transactions with 
owners of the Company - - (57) - - (912) (22,011) (22,980) 490 (22,490)
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ------- -------- ---------------
At 31 December 2012 49,845 22,695 (9,571) 75,394 (213,067) (1,216) 255,610 179,690 3,884 183,574
------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------ - ----------------- ------------------ ------------------ Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 104
1 Accounting policies
Significant accounting policies
Marshalls plc (the “Company”) is a Company domiciled in the United Kingdom. The Consolidated Financial Statements
of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred
to as the “Group”). 
The Consolidated Financial Statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 26 March 2014.
The following paragraphs summarise the significant accounting policies of the Group, which have been applied
consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Group’s Consolidated Financial
Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the EU. The
Group has applied all accounting standards and interpretations issued by the IASB and International Financial
Reporting Committee relevant to its operations and which are effective in respect of these Financial Statements.
The following new accounting standards and amendments to standards are mandatory and have been adopted for the
first time in the year ended 31 December 2013:
Amendments to IAS 19 – “Employee Benefits (2011)”;
Amendments to IAS 1 – “Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income";
Amendments to IFRS 13 – “Fair Value Measurement";
Amendments to IFRS 7 – “Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Offsetting Financial Assets and Liabilities";
Amendments to IAS 32 – “Financial Instruments: Offsetting Financial Assets and Liabilities"; and
Annual improvements to IFRSs – “2009-2011 Cycle”.
The impact of IAS 19 – “Employee Benefits (2011)” and IFRS 13 – “Fair Value Measurement” are described below. The
implementation of the other standards has only had a presentational impact.
The Group adopted IAS 19, “Employee Benefits (2011)”, on 1 January 2013 and changed its basis for deferring its income
or expense relating to defined benefit plans.  As a result of the change the Group now determines the net interest
income on the net defined benefit asset for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined
benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the net defined benefit asset at the beginning of the annual
period. The comparative figures have been restated accordingly.  As the discount rate and the rate of return on assets
at 31 December 2011 were equal there has been no impact on the net interest income once restated.
IFRS 13 – “Fair Value Measurement,” establishes a single framework for measuring fair value and making disclosures
about fair value measurements, when such measurements are required or permitted by other IFRSs. In particular, it
unifies the definition of fair value as the price at which an orderly transaction to sell an asset or to transfer a liability
would take place between market participants at the measurement date. It also replaces and expands the disclosure
requirements about fair value measurements in other IFRSs, including IFRS 7 – “Financial Instruments: Disclosures. ”
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 13, the Group has applied the new fair value measurement
guidance prospectively, and has not provided any comparative information for new disclosures. Notwithstanding the
above, the change had no significant impact on the measurements of the Group’s assets and liabilities.
These standards have not had a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 105 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Significant accounting policies (continued)
(a) Statement of compliance
The Group Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union ("adopted IFRSs"). The Parent
Company has elected to prepare its Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP; these are presented on
pages 144 to 150.
(b) Basis of preparation 
The Group's business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and
position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 14 to 47. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows,
liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also set out in the Strategic Report. In addition, Note 19 includes the
Group's policies and procedures for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its
financial instruments; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Details of the Group's funding position are set out in Note 19 and are subject to normal covenant arrangements.
The Group's on-demand overdraft facility is reviewed on an annual basis and the current arrangements were
renewed and signed on 16 August 2013. In the opinion of the Directors there are sufficient unutilised facilities held
which mature after twelve months. The Group's performance is dependent on economic and market conditions, the
outlook for which is difficult to predict. The Group took decisive action in 2012 to align its operational capacity with
expected market conditions.  Markets remain uncertain but, based on current expectations, the Group's cash
forecasts continue to meet half-year and year end bank covenants and there is adequate headroom which is not
dependent on facility renewals. The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks
successfully. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Consolidated  Financial
Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and
liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments and liabilities for share-based payments.
The comparative figures for the financial year ended 31 December 2012 have been restated in respect of
discontinued operations.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of these
Consolidated Financial Statements and are also set out on the Company’s website (www.marshalls.co.uk).
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and
various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis
of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other
sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates
are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised, if the revision affects only that period, or in the period
of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgements made by management in the application of adopted IFRSs that have a significant effect on the
Consolidated Financial Statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are
discussed in Note 28. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 106
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
1 Accounting policies (continued)
(c) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or
indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In
assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The
Financial Statements of subsidiaries are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the date that
control commences until the date that control ceases.
(ii) Associates (equity accounted investees)
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and
operating policies.  Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and 50 per cent of
the voting power of another entity.  Associates are accounted for using the equity method (equity accounted
investees) and are recognised initially at cost. The Group's investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition,
net of any accumulated impairment losses. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Group's share of the
income and expenses and equity movements of equity accounted investees, after adjustment to align the
accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that
significant influence ceases. When the Group's share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee,
the carrying amount of that interest (including any long-term investments) is reduced to nil and the recognition of
further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on
behalf of the investee.
(iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group
transactions, are eliminated in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(d) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are
translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on
translation are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the
transaction.
For the purposes of presenting Consolidated Financial Statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group's foreign
operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.  Income and expense items are
translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that
period in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
(e) Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, fuel pricing and interest
rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, the
Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. However, derivatives that do
not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value and transaction costs are recognised in the Income
Statement when incurred. The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the
Consolidated Income Statement. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any
resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged (see accounting policy f).  107 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
1 Accounting policies (continued)
(f) Hedging
(i) Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset
or liability, or a highly probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative
financial instrument is recognised directly in equity. When the forecasted transaction subsequently results in the
recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from
equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset. For cash flow hedges,
other than those covered by the preceding policy statement, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed
from equity and recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the same period or periods during which the
hedged forecast transaction affects the income or expense. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised
immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or the entity revokes designation of the
hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, it no longer meets the criteria for
hedge accounting. The cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with
the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the
cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income
Statement and cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
(ii)  Economic hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is used to hedge economically the foreign exchange exposure of a
recognised monetary asset or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging
instrument is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
(g) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation (see below) and
impairment losses (see accounting policy l). The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct
labour and an appropriate proportion of directly attributable production overheads.
Certain items of property, plant and equipment that had been revalued to fair value on or prior to 1 January 2004,
the date of transition to adopted IFRSs, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at
the date of that revaluation.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as
separate items of property, plant and equipment.
(ii) Leased assets
Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as
finance leases. Property, plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to
the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less
accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy l).
(iii) Subsequent costs
The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part
of such an item when that cost is incurred if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the
item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other costs are recognised in the
Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 108
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
1 Accounting policies (continued)
(g) Property, plant and equipment (continued)
(iv) Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.  Depreciation on quarries is based on estimated rates
of extraction. This is based on a comparison between the volume of relevant material extracted in any given period
and the volume of relevant material available for extraction.  Depreciation on leased assets is charged over the
shorter of the lease term and their useful economic life.  Freehold land is not depreciated. The rates are as follows:
Freehold and long leasehold buildings - 2.5% to 5% per annum
Short leasehold property - over the period of the lease
Fixed plant and equipment - 3.3% to 25% per annum
Mobile plant and vehicles - 14% to 30% per annum
Quarries - based on rates of extraction
The residual values, useful economic lives and depreciation methods are reassessed annually.  Assets under
construction are not depreciated until they are ready for use.
Site preparation costs associated with the development of new stone reserves are capitalised. These costs would
include:
• costs of clearing the site (including internal and outsourced labour in relation to site workers);
• professional fees (including fees relating to obtaining planning consent);
• purchase, installation and assembly of any necessary extraction equipment; and
• costs of testing whether the extraction process is functioning properly (net of any sales of test product).
Depreciation commences when commercial extraction commences and is based on the rate of extraction.
In accordance with IAS 37, provision is made for quarry restoration where a legal or constructive obligation exists,
it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will occur and the financial cost of restoration work can be
reliably measured. The lives of quarries are almost always long and it is difficult to estimate the length with any
precision. The majority of quarry restoration work is undertaken while extracting minerals from new areas
(backfilling) and therefore work can be completed without additional cost. As a result of the particular
characteristics of the Group's quarries, the IAS 37 criteria have not been met to date based on the assets so far
acquired and therefore, no provisions have been recognised.
(h) Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the
date on which control is transferred to the Group.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2011, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:
• the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus 
• the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus
• the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less
• the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 109 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
1 Accounting policies (continued)
(h) Intangible assets (continued)
(i) Goodwill (continued)
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income
Statement.
Costs relating to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are
expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent
consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise,
subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
On a transaction-by-transaction basis, the Group elects to measure non-controlling interests either at its fair value
or at its proportionate interest in the recognised amount of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree at the
acquisition date.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004 but before 1 January 2011, goodwill
represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identifiable assets and
contingent liabilities acquired. The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred
prior to 1 January 2011 were not adjusted in preparing the Group’s opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2011.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which
represents the amount recorded under the Group’s previous accounting framework. The classification and
accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 were not adjusted in
preparing the Group’s opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004.
Goodwill is subsequently stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash
generating units and is tested annually for impairment (see accounting policy l). In respect of equity accounted
investees, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the investee.
In respect of acquisitions where there is a contingent consideration element an accrual is created for the estimated
amount payable if it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and
this can be measured reliably.
(ii) Research and development
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge
and understanding, is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the
production of new or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process meet
the recognition criteria for development expenditure as set out in IAS 38 – “Intangible Assets”. The expenditure
capitalised includes all directly attributable costs, from the date which the intangible asset meets the recognition
criteria, necessary to create, produce and prepare the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by
management. Other development expenditure is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense
as incurred. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and
impairment losses (see accounting policy l).
(iii) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below)
and impairment losses (see accounting policy l). 
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as
an expense as incurred.
(iv) Subsequent expenditure
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic
benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is expensed as incurred. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 110
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
1 Accounting policies (continued)
(h) Intangible assets (continued)
(v) Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite. Goodwill is systematically tested for impairment at each
balance sheet date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. The rates applied
are as follows:
Customer and supplier relationships - 5 to 20 years
Patents, trademarks and know-how - 2 to 20 years
Development costs - 10 to 20 years
Software - 5 to 10 years
(i) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount (discounted if material) less impairment losses (see
accounting policy l).
(j) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price
in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs to completion and of selling expenses. 
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in, first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the
inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition. In the case of manufactured inventories and
work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity which were
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
(k) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand
and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash
equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
(l) Impairment 
(i) Impairment review
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, other than inventories (see accounting policy j) and deferred tax assets
(see accounting policy v), are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of
impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill, assets that have an indefinite useful life and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the
recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date. 
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its
recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount
of any goodwill allocated to cash-generating units and then, to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in
the unit on a pro-rata basis. A cash-generating unit is the group of assets identified on acquisition that generate
cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
The recoverable amount of assets or cash-generating units is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and
value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to
the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is
determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 111 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
1 Accounting policies (continued)
(l) Impairment (continued)
(ii)  Reversals of impairments 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.  In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed
if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been
recognised.
(m) Share capital
(i)  Share capital
Share capital is classified as equity if it is non-redeemable and any dividends are discretionary, or is redeemable but
only at the Company’s option. Dividends on share capital classified as equity are recognised as distributions within
equity.  Non-equity share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the
shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary. Dividends thereon are recognised in the Consolidated
Income Statement as a financial expense.
(ii) Dividends 
Dividends on non-equity shares are recognised as a liability and accounted for on an accruals basis. Equity
dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared (appropriately authorised and no
longer at the discretion of the Company).
(n) Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to
initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and
redemption value being recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on
an effective interest basis.
(o) Pension schemes
(i) Defined benefit schemes 
The net obligation in respect of the Group’s Defined Benefit Pension Scheme is calculated by estimating the amount
of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit
is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any Scheme assets is deducted. The discount rate
is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating
to the terms of the Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified Actuary using the projected unit
credit method.
If the calculation results in a surplus, the resulting asset is measured at the lower of the amount of any cumulative
unrecognised net actuarial losses and past service cost and the present value of any economic benefits available in
the form of refunds from the plan, or reductions in future contributions to the plan. The present value of these
economic benefits is discounted by reference to market yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate
bonds.
When the benefits of the Scheme are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by
employees is recognised as an expense in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the average period
until the benefits become vested. To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised
immediately in the Income Statement.
Actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the Group’s obligation in respect of a plan are recognised
immediately within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
(ii) Defined contribution schemes
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in the Income
Statement as incurred. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 112
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
1 Accounting policies (continued)
(p) Share-based payment transactions
The Group enters into equity-settled share-based payment transactions with its employees.  In particular, annual
awards are made to Directors under a Long Term Incentive Plan.
The Long Term Incentive Plan allows Group employees to acquire shares in Marshalls plc. The fair value of options
granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured
at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the
options. The fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black-Scholes option valuation model, taking
into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense
is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions
are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of
awards that do meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
Current tax relief is available based on the intrinsic value of shares issued at exercise date.  Consequently, a deferred
tax asset is recognised at grant date based on the number of shares expected to be issued proportioned in line with
the vesting period.
(q) Own shares held by Employee Benefit Trust
Transactions of the Group-sponsored Employee Benefit Trust are included in the Group Financial Statements.  In
particular, the Trust’s purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
(r) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive
obligation as a result of a past event, it can be measured reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic
benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting
the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money
and the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan,
and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly. Future operating costs are not
provided for.
(s) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated at nominal amount (discounted if material).
(t) Revenue
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement upon the despatch of goods,
when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to the buyer.  Revenue
represents the invoiced value of sales to customers less returns, allowances and value added tax.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due or the
possible return of goods or continuing management involvement with the goods.
(u) Expenses
(i) Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line
basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement
over the life of the lease.
(ii) Finance lease payments
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding
liability. The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. 113 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
1 Accounting policies (continued)
(u) Expenses (continued)
(iii) Financial expenses
Net financial expenses comprise interest on obligations under the Defined Benefit Pension Scheme, the expected
return on Scheme assets under the Defined Benefit Pension Scheme, interest payable on borrowings (including
finance leases) calculated using the effective interest rate method, dividends on non-equity shares, interest
receivable on funds invested, dividend income, foreign exchange gains and losses, and gains and losses on
hedging instruments that are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement (see accounting policy f).
(v) Income tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred taxation. Income tax is recognised in
the Consolidated Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in
which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred taxation is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for
taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill,
the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, other than in a
business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably
not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred taxation provided is based on the expected manner
of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that are expected to
apply when the temporary difference reverses, based on rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted
at the balance sheet date.
A deferred taxation asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be
available against which the asset can be utilised. Deferred taxation assets are reduced to the extent that it is no
longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. 
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the
liability to pay the related dividend.
(w)Segment reporting
The Group has determined that, in accordance with IFRS 8 "Operating Segments" and based on its internal
reporting framework and management structure, it has only one reportable segment.  Such determination is
necessarily judgemental in its nature and has been determined by management in preparing the Consolidated
Financial Statements. The level of disclosure of segmental and other information is determined by such
assessment. Further details of the considerations made and the resulting disclosures are provided in Note 2
below.
2 Segmental analysis
Operating profit
(before operational
restructuring costs and Operating profit /
Revenue asset impairments) (loss)
2013 2012* 2013 2012* 2013 2012*
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Continuing operations 307,390 300,938 16,090 12,851 16,090 (8,670)
------------------ ------------------
Financial income and expenses (net) (3,064) (3,578) (3,064) (3,578)
------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------
Profit / (loss) before tax 13,026 9,273 13,026 (12,248)
------------------ ------------------ ------------------ ------------------
* The comparatives have been restated in respect of discontinued operations (Note 8). Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 114
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
2 Segmental analysis (continued)
Operating segments 
IFRS8 “Operating segements” requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of discrete financial
information about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Group’s Chief Operating Decision
Maker (“CODM”) to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance. The Directors have
concluded that, in terms of the Group's operations, the detailed requirements of IFRS 8 support the reporting of the
Group's operations as a single business segment.  As far as Marshalls is concerned the CODM is regarded as being the
Executive Directors.
Detailed consideration has been given to the Group’s overall business strategy and this is explained in detail in the
Strategic Report on pages 14 to 47. The fundamental strategic objectives remain as follows:
• to develop, improve, reduce cost and innovate in our unique manufacturing and distribution network;
• to invest in marketing direct to the consumer to “pull through demand” and build brand awareness;
• to continue to develop the integrated product offer; and
• to invest in acquisitions and organic expansion.
These strategic objectives increasingly require the CODM to view the business on a national and a Group level. The
Group’s national manufacturing plan is structured around a series of production units throughout the UK, in
conjunction with a single logistics and distribution operation. A national planning process supports sales to both of
the Group’s key end markets, namely the Domestic and Public Sector and Commercial end markets and the Group's
operating assets produce and deliver a range of broadly similar products that are sold into each of these end markets.
The focus is on the one integrated production, logistics and distribution network supporting both end markets and
operating and financial information is available for the one combined integrated logistics and distribution network.
Whilst KPI information is available to the CODM from the different functional areas of the business, “performance
assessment” and “resource allocation” continue to be addressed on a Group basis. The Group's structure and strategy
mean that business performance is focused on production efficiency, logistics and distribution efficiency, the
performance of customers and operational planning. These are completely inter-dependent and are undertaken on
a fully integrated basis, not in isolation.
For these reasons, and on the basis of the strategy, structure and nature of its business, and having considered the
specific requirements of IFRS 8, the Directors have concluded that the Group has one operating segment. In order to
assist the reader of the Annual Report some revenue information has been presented in the Strategic Report relating
to the Group’s Public Sector and Commercial, Domestic and International end markets.
2013 2012*
£’000 £’000
Geographical destination of revenue:
United Kingdom 290,855 287,487
Rest of the World 16,535 13,451
------------------ ------------------
307,390 300,938
------------------ ------------------
* The comparatives have been restated in respect of discontinued operations (Note 8).
Marshalls NV contributed revenue of £13,274,000 (2012: £8,877,000). All other revenue originates in the United
Kingdom from continuing operations. The Group's International operations do not currently meet the definition of a
reportable operating segment under IFRS 8. 115 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
3 Net operating costs
2013 2012*
£’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables 117,176 100,589
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 1,470 6,598
Personnel costs 80,549 81,899
Depreciation - owned 13,041 13,883
- leased 158 79
Amortisation of intangible assets 938 1,247
Own work capitalised (1,071) (1,272)
Other operating costs 80,425 89,298
International "start-up" costs 84 499
----------------- -----------------
Operating costs 292,770 292,820
Other operating income (1,325) (2,167)
Net gain on asset and property disposals (131) (1,944)
Gain on property exchange (Note 11) - (594)
Share of results of associates (14) (28)
----------------- -----------------
Net operating costs before operational restructuring costs and asset impairments 291,300 288,087
Operational restructuring costs and asset impairments (Note 5) - 21,521
----------------- -----------------
Net operating costs 291,300 309,608
----------------- -----------------
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Net operating costs include:
Auditor’s remuneration (see below) 169 169
Leasing costs 7,305 7,413
Hire of plant and machinery 4,769 5,186
Research and development costs 2,775 2,425
----------------- -----------------
In respect of the year under review, KPMG Audit Plc carried out work in relation to:
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Audit of Marshalls plc 20 20
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 143 133
Taxation compliance services 6 6
Other services - 10
----------------- -----------------
169 169
----------------- -----------------
*The comparatives have been restated in respect of discontinued operations (Note 8). Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 116
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
4 Personnel costs
Personnel costs (including amounts charged in the 2013 2012*
year in relation to Directors): £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 67,119 69,178
Social security costs 7,636 7,870
Share based expenses 1,658 468
Contributions to defined contribution Pension Scheme 4,136 4,383
----------------- -----------------
Included within net operating costs (Note 3) 80,549 81,899
Personnel costs included in International "start-up" costs (Note 3) - 263
Personnel costs related to net profit on asset and property disposals (Note 3) - 1,378
Personnel costs included in operational restructuring costs (Note 5) - 6,321
Personnel costs included in profit on discontinued operations (Note 8) 656 -
----------------- -----------------
Total personnel costs 81,205 89,861
---------------- ----------------
2013 2012
Remuneration of Directors: £’000 £’000
Salary 918 886
Other benefits 55 40
PIP bonus 643 366
Amounts receivable under the LTIP 3,537 475
Pensions allowances 261 265
Non-Executive Directors’ fees and fixed allowances 289 289
----------------- -----------------
5,703 2,321
---------------- ----------------
The aggregate of emoluments and amounts receivable under the PIP and the LTIP of the highest paid director was
£2,900,000 (2012: £938,000) including a salary supplement pension allowance of £96,000 (2012: £123,000).
There are no Directors to whom retirement benefits are accruing in respect of qualifying services. As set out in the
Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 90, the Executive Directors receive a pensions allowance equal to
their contractual entitlement of 30 per cent of basic salary.
Further details of Directors’ remuneration, share options, long term incentive plans and Directors’ pension
entitlements are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 90.
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year was:
2013 2012*
Number Number
Continuing operations 2,042 2,208
-------------- --------------
* The comparatives have been restated in respect of discontinued operations (Note 8). 117 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
5 Operational restructuring costs and asset impairments
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Operational restructuring costs - 10,226
Asset impairments - 11,295
----------------- -----------------
- 21,521
----------------- -----------------
The Board determined that certain charges to the Consolidated Income Statement should be separately identified
for better understanding of the Group’s results for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Operational restructuring costs in 2012 reflected the implementation of a wide range of contingency measures
aimed at reducing costs, reducing inventories and conserving cash. These initiatives included works closure costs
which reflected the need for capacity reductions. Operational restructuring costs included redundancy costs of £nil
(2012: £6,205,000).
Asset impairments included the write down of plant and machinery and other assets together with the impairment
of certain intangible assets and other items of plant that were temporarily mothballed. The recoverable amounts
were based on the fair value of the assets.
Asset impairments are analysed as follows:
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment (Note 11) - 6,396
Intangible assets (Note 12) - 1,282
Investment in associates (Note 13) - 1,566
Inventories (Note 14) - 2,051
----------------- -----------------
- 11,295
----------------- -----------------
6 Financial expenses and income
2013 2012*
£’000 £’000
(a)  Financial expenses
Interest expense on bank loans, overdrafts and loan notes 3,638 4,279
Finance lease interest expense 11 12
----------------- -----------------
3,649 4,291
----------------- -----------------
(b)  Financial income
Expected return on the Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 576 709
Interest receivable and similar income 9 4
----------------- -----------------
585 713
----------------- -----------------
* The comparatives have been restated in respect of the revisions to IAS 19, “Employee Benefits (2011)”, as described
in Note 1. As the discount rate and the rate of return on assets at 31 December 2011 were equal there has been no
impact on the net interest income and earnings per share once restated.  A restated balance sheet has not been
provided given there is no impact on the balance sheet. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 118
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
7 Income tax expense
Before
operational Operational
restructuring restructuring
costs and costs and
asset asset
impairments impairments Total
2013 2012* 2012* 2012*
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current tax expense
Current year 4,251 1,293 (2,596) (1,303)
Adjustments for prior years (1,642) (2,148) - (2,148)
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
2,609 (855) (2,596) (3,451)
Deferred taxation expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences:
Current year (2,944) (736) (1,771) (2,507)
Adjustments for prior years 402 84 - 84
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
Income tax expense / (credit) in the Consolidated
Income Statement (continuing operations) 67 (1,507) (4,367) (5,874)
Tax on discontinued operations 210 402 - 402
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
Total tax expense / (credit) 277 (1,105) (4,367) (5,472)
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
Before Operational
operational restructuring
restructuring costs and
costs and asset asset
impairments impairments Total
% 2013 2012* 2012* 2012*
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Profit / (loss) before tax:
Continuing operations 100.0 13,026 9,273 (21,521) (12,248)
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
Tax using domestic corporation tax rate 23.3 3,051 2,272 (5,273) (3,001)
Disallowed amortisation of intangible assets 0.3 33 63 - 63
Net income / (expenditure) not taxable 6.4 839 240 906 1,146
Adjustments for prior years (9.5) (1,240) (2,064) - (2,064)
Impact of the change in the rate of
corporation tax on deferred taxation (20.0) (2,616) (2,018) - (2,018)
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
0.5 67 (1,507) (4,367) (5,874)
- ---------------- - ---------------- - ---------------- - ---------------- - ----------------
*The comparatives have been restated in respect of discontinued operations (Note 8).
The deferred tax credit arose due to reductions in the rate of corporation tax to 21 per cent by April 2014 and 20 per
cent by April 2015 which were substantially enacted, following the receipt of Royal Assent, in July 2013.
The net amount of deferred taxation credited to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year
was £3,912,000 (2012: £2,742,000). 119 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
8 Discontinued operations
On 30 April 2013 the Group completed the sale of aggregate quarries to Breedon Aggregates England Limited for
cash consideration of £17.5 million. The final consideration will be up to £19.2 million dependent on certain
conditions being satisfied. The assets sold comprised quarries solely supplying aggregates, sand and gravel. The
Group has retained all of its dimensional stone quarries, some of which produce aggregate as an ancillary product.
The disposed quarries were the freehold and leasehold quarries at Clearwell, near Lydney, Gloucestershire, which
produces primarily high quality limestone aggregates and the Group's sand and gravel quarries located at Dunsville,
near Hatfield, South Yorkshire, Astley Moss in Greater Manchester and Mold in North Wales which operates under the
Lloyds Sand and Gravel trading name and the business carried on from these quarries.  Also included was an option
to develop sand and gravel resources near Saredon, Staffordshire. On 23 August 2013 additional consideration of
£1.2 million was received following the satisfactory completion of a post completion condition. This condition had
required the commissioning of a sand extraction plant to the satisfaction of the purchaser. The additional
consideration, net of attributable costs, has given rise to a post-tax profit of discontinued operations of £0.5 million. 
The results of the discontinued operations which have been included in the Consolidated Income Statement were as
follows:
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Revenue 2,989 8,755
Net operating costs (2,648) (7,677)
----------------- -----------------
Profit before tax 341 1,078
Income tax expense (110) (402)
----------------- -----------------
Profit after tax 231 676
Profit on disposal and closure of discontinued operations 272 -
----------------- -----------------
Net profit attributable to discontinued operations 503 676
----------------- -----------------
Basic earnings per share (pence) 0.26 0.35
----------------- -----------------
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 0.25 0.34
----------------- ----------------- Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 120
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
8 Discontinued operations (continued)
Effect of disposal on the financial position of the Group
2013
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 12,774
Inventories 1,734
Other net current assets 1,969
-----------------
Assets disposed of 16,477
-----------------
Consideration received, satisfied in cash 18,660
Attributable costs and professional fees (1,811)
-----------------
Net consideration received 16,849
-----------------
Profit on disposal 372
Taxation (100)
-----------------
Net profit on disposal 272
-----------------
Analysis of net consideration received:
On sale of aggregate quarries on 30 April 2013 16,849
Deferred consideration received 150
-----------------
16,999
-----------------
During the year ended 31 December 2013 these aggregates businesses contributed an inflow of £422,000 to the
Group's net operating cash flows (2012: £2,034,000), paid £nil in respect of investing activities (2012: paid £260,000),
and paid £nil in respect of financing activities (2012: £nil).
A post tax profit of £272,000 arose on the disposal of the aggregates businesses, being the net proceeds of disposal
less the carrying amount of the relevant net assets.
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations of 0.26 pence (2012: 0.35 pence) per share is calculated by
dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders from discontinued operations of £503,000 (2012: £676,000)
by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period of 195,742,757 (2012: 195,464,528).
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations of 0.25 pence (2012: 0.34 pence) per share is calculated by
dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and potentially dilutive ordinary shares from discontinued
operations of £503,000 (2012: £676,000) by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period of
195,742,757 (2012: 195,464,528) plus potentially dilutive ordinary shares of 3,635,998 (2012: 3,914,227) which totals
199,378,755 (2012: 199,378,755).
9 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share from total operations of 7.20 pence (2012: 2.91 pence loss) per share is calculated by dividing
the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders from total operations and after adjusting for non-controlling interests
of £14,096,000 (2012: £5,684,000 loss) by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period of
195,742,757 (2012: 195,464,528).
Basic earnings per share from total operations before operational restructuring costs and asset impairments of 7.20
pence (2012: 5.87 pence) per share is calculated by dividing the profit from total operations before operational
restructuring costs and asset impairments and after adjusting for non-controlling interests of £14,096,000 (2012:
£11,470,000) by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period of 195,742,757 (2012: 195,464,528). 121 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
9 Earnings per share (continued)
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations of 6.94 pence (2012: 3.26 pence loss) per share is calculated by
dividing the profit from continuing operations and after adjusting for non-controlling interests of £13,593,000 (2012:
£6,360,000 loss) by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year of 195,742,757 (2012: 195,464,528).
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations before operational restructuring costs and asset impairments of
6.94 pence (2012: 5.52 pence) per share is calculated by dividing the profit from continuing operations before
operational restructuring costs and asset impairments and after adjusting for non-controlling interests of
£13,593,000 (2012: £10,794,000) by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period of 195,742,757
(2012: 195,464,528).
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Profit from continuing operations before operational restructuring
costs and asset impairments 12,959 10,780
Operational restructuring costs and asset impairments - (17,154)
--------------------------- -----------------
Profit / (loss) from continuing operations 12,959 (6,374)
Profit from discontinued operations 503 676
--------------------------- -----------------
Profit / (loss) for the financial period 13,462 (5,698)
Loss attributable to non-controlling interests 634 14
--------------------------- -----------------
Profit / (loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders 14,096 (5,684)
-------------------------- -----------------
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
2013 2012
Number Number
Number of issued ordinary shares (at beginning of the period) 199,378,755 199,378,755
Effect of shares transferred into employee benefit trust (1,210,998) (1,489,227)
Effect of treasury shares acquired (2,425,000) (2,425,000)
--------------------------- --------------------------
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at end of the period 195,742,757 195,464,528
-------------------------- -------------------------
Diluted earnings per share from total operations of 7.07 pence per share is calculated by dividing the profit from total
operations, after adjusting for non-controlling interests, of £14,096,000 by the weighted average number of shares in
issue during the period of 195,742,757 plus potentially dilutive shares of 3,635,998 which totals 199,378,755.
For total operations at 31 December 2012 the potential ordinary shares set out below are considered to be anti-
dilutive to the total earnings per share calculation.
Diluted earnings per share from total operations before operational restructuring costs and asset impairments of 7.07
pence (2012: 5.75 pence) per share is calculated by dividing the profit from total operations before operational
restructuring costs and asset impairments and after adjusting for non-controlling interests of £14,096,000 (2012:
£11,470,000) by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period of 195,742,757 (2012: 195,464,528)
plus potentially dilutive shares of 3,635,998 (2012: 3,914,227) which totals 199,378,755 (2012: 199,378,755).
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before operational restructuring costs and asset impairments
of 6.82 pence (2012: 5.41 pence) per share is calculated by dividing the profit from continuing operations before
operational restructuring costs and asset impairments and after adjusting for non-controlling interests of
£13,593,000 (2012: £10,794,000) by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period of 195,742,757
(2012: 195,464,528) plus potentially dilutive shares of 3,635,998 (2012: 3,914,227) which totals 199,378,755 (2012:
199,378,755). Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 122
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
9 Earnings per share (continued)
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of 6.82 pence per share is calculated by dividing the profit from
continuing operations, after adjusting for non-controlling interests, of £13,593,000 by the weighted average number of
shares in issue during the period of 195,742,757 plus potentially dilutive shares of 3,635,998 which totals 199,378,755.
For continuing operations at 31 December 2012 the potential ordinary shares set out below are considered to be
anti-dilutive to the continuing earnings per share calculation.
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted)
2013 2012
Number Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 195,742,757 195,464,528
Effect of shares transferred into employee benefit trust 1,210,998 1,489,227
Effect of treasury shares acquired 2,425,000 2,425,000
--------------------------- ---------------------------
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) 199,378,755 199,378,755
-------------------------- --------------------------
10 Dividends
After the balance sheet date dividends of 3.50 pence (2012: 3.50 pence) per qualifying ordinary share were proposed
by the Directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there were no income tax consequences. The total
dividends proposed in respect of the year are as follows:
Pence per qualifying 2013 2012
share £’000 £’000
2013 final 3.50 6,861
2013 interim 1.75 3,431
---------------- ----------------
5.25 10,292
---------------- ----------------
2012 final 3.50 6,861
2012 interim 1.75 3,431
---------------- ----------------
5.25 10,292
---------------- ----------------
The following dividends were approved by the shareholders and recognised in the period.
Pence per qualifying 2013 2012
share £’000 £’000
2013 interim 1.75 3,431
2012 final 3.50 6,861
---------------- ----------------
5.25 10,292
---------------- ----------------
2012 interim 1.75 3,431
2011 final 3.50 6,861
---------------- ----------------
5.25 10,292
---------------- ----------------
The 2013 final dividend of 3.50 pence per qualifying ordinary share, total value £6,861,000, will be paid on 4 July 2014
to shareholders registered at the close of business on 6 June 2014. 123 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
11 Property, plant and equipment
Plant, 
Land and machinery
buildings Quarries and vehicles Total
Cost £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2012 90,861 32,261 302,501 425,623
Exchange differences (209) - (93) (302)
Additions 4,312 7 6,575 10,894
Disposals (6,203) - (6,068) (12,271)
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
At 31 December 2012 88,761 32,268 302,915 423,944
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
At 1 January 2013 88,761 32,268 302,915 423,944
Exchange differences 29 -1241
Additions 115 486 4,861 5,462
Disposals (196) (12,653) (10,070) (22,919)
Transfers 634 - (634) -
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
At 31 December 2013 89,343 20,101 297,084 406,528
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
Depreciation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2012 31,364 7,664 195,271 234,299
Depreciation charge for the year 2,194 583 12,006 14,783
Exchange differences (1) - (34) (35)
Disposals (1,945) - (5,161) (7,106)
Impairment losses (Note 5) 1,219 - 5,177 6,396
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
At 31 December 2012 32,831 8,247 207,259 248,337
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
At 1 January 2013 32,831 8,247 207,259 248,337
Depreciation charge for the year 2,366 157 10,932 13,455
Exchange differences - - 17 17
Disposals (188) (2,618) (7,196) (10,002)
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
At 31 December 2013 35,009 5,786 211,012 251,807
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
Net Book Value
At 1 January 2012 59,497 24,597 107,230 191,324
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
At 1 January 2013 55,930 24,021 95,656 175,607
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
at 31 December 2013 54,334 14,315 86,072 154,721
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
A property exchange undertaken during the year ended 31 December 2012 has given rise to a gain of £594,000 (Note
3) and has resulted in an increase in additions in that year of £2,587,000.
Mineral reserves and associated land have been separately disclosed under the caption of "Quarries".
The carrying amount of tangible fixed assets includes £215,000 (2012: £352,000) in respect of assets held under
finance leases. Group cost of land and buildings and plant and machinery includes £nil (2012: £937,000) and
£607,000 (2012: £1,311,000) respectively for assets in the course of construction. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 124
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
11 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Capital commitments
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Capital expenditure that has been contracted for but for which no
provision has been made in the Consolidated Financial Statements 569 224
--------------- ---------------
Depreciation charge
The depreciation charge is recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Income Statement:
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Net operating costs (Note 3): continuing operations 13,199 13,962
Discontinued operations 256 821
----------------- -----------------
13,455 14,783
---------------- ----------------
12 Intangible assets
Patents, 
Customer Supplier trademarks
relation- relation- and Development
Goodwill ships ships know-how costs Software Total
Cost £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2012 43,691 2,210 1,200 1,660 159 8,218 57,138
Additions ----- 1,212 1,212
--------------- - -------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
At 31 December 2012 43,691 2,210 1,200 1,660 159 9,430 58,350
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
At 1 January 2013 43,691 2,210 1,200 1,660 159 9,430 58,350
Additions ----- 596 596
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
At 31 December 2013 43,691 2,210 1,200 1,660 159 10,026 58,946
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2012 8,912 928 458 1,154 61 2,895 14,408
Amortisation for the year - - 90 116 8 1,033 1,247
Impairment losses (Note 5) - 1,282 ---- 1,282
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
At 31 December 2012 8,912 2,210 548 1,270 69 3,928 16,937
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
At 1 January 2013 8,912 2,210 548 1,270 69 3,928 16,937
Amortisation for the year - - 60 32 8 838 938
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
At 31 December 2013 8,912 2,210 608 1,302 77 4,766 17,875
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2012 34,779 1,282 742 506 98 5,323 42,730
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
At 1 January 2013 34,779 - 652 390 90 5,502 41,413
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
At 31 December 2013 34,779 - 592 358 82 5,260 41,071
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- 125 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
12 Intangible assets (continued)
All goodwill has arisen from business combinations. The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated across Cash
Generating Units ("CGUs") and these CGUs are independent sources of income streams and represent the lowest level
within the Group at which the associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes. The Group tests goodwill
annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations and at both 31 December 2013
and 31 December 2012 the full amount of goodwill in the Group balance sheet related to the Landscape Products
CGU. These calculations use cash flow projections based on a combination of individual financial five year forecasts,
containing assumptions for revenue growth and operational gearing,  and appropriate long term growth rates of 2.3
per cent. To prepare value in use calculations, the cash flow forecasts are discounted back to present value using an
appropriate market-based discount rate. The pre-tax discount rates used to calculate the value in use were 9.4 per
cent (2012: ranged from 6.7 per cent to 7.2 per cent), with the pre-tax discount rate used for the Landscape Products
CGU being 9.4 per cent (2012: 7.2 per cent). The Directors have reviewed the recoverable amounts of the CGUs and
do not consider that any reasonable change in the assumptions would give rise to the need for further impairment.
Included in software additions is £596,000 (2012: £776,000) of own work capitalised.
Amortisation charge
The amortisation charge is recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Income Statement:
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Net operating costs (Note 3): continuing operations 938 1,247
---------------- ----------------
13 Investment in associates
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Carrying value
At 1 January 650 2,188
Impairment losses (Note 5) - (1,566)
Share of results of associates 14 28
----------------- -----------------
At 31 December 664 650
---------------- ----------------
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Investment at cost 2,250 2,250
Impairment losses (Note 5) (1,566) (1,566)
Cumulative share of results of associates (20) (34)
----------------- -----------------
Carrying value at 31 December 664 650
---------------- ----------------
The Group's share of results of associates in the year ended 31 December 2013 was £14,000 profit (2012: £28,000
profit) and, on the grounds of materiality, no additional disclosure has been made. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 126
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
14 Inventories 
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables 12,311 13,716
Finished goods and goods for resale 58,496 61,700
----------------- -----------------
70,807 75,416
---------------- -----------------
Inventories stated at fair value less cost to sell at 31 December 2013 amounted to £1,864,000 (2012: £3,785,000). The
write down of inventories made during the year amounted to £534,000 (2012: £2,697,000) of which £nil (2012:
£2,051,000) is in respect of operational restructuring costs (Note 5). There were no reversals of inventory write downs
made in previous years either in 2013 or 2012.
15 Trade and other receivables
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Trade receivables 23,606 19,849
Other receivables 2,648 3,782
Prepayments and accrued income 6,119 6,587
----------------- -----------------
32,373 30,218
----------------- -----------------
Ageing of trade receivables
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Less than 30 days 13,790 11,068
31 - 60 days 7,909 7,056
61 - 90 days 1,837 1,680
More than 90 days 70 45
----------------- -----------------
23,606 19,849
----------------- -----------------
No receivables were due after more than one year.  All amounts disclosed above are considered recoverable and no
material amounts are regarded as overdue.
16 Cash and cash equivalents 
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Bank balances 17,626 11,079
Cash in hand 26 22
----------------- -----------------
Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 17,652 11,101
----------------- ----------------- 127 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
17 Trade and other payables 
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Current liabilities
Trade payables 41,018 29,964
Taxation and social security 7,109 9,172
Other payables 4,459 6,014
Accruals 13,012 14,739
Financial liabilities 284 1,624
----------------- -----------------
65,882 61,513
----------------- -----------------
All trade payables are due in six months or less.
18 Loans
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Current liabilities
Bank loans 3,370 -
Finance lease liabilities 83 99
----------------- -----------------
3,453 99
----------------- -----------------
Non current liabilities 
Bank loans 49,627 74,325
Finance lease liabilities 141 220
----------------- -----------------
49,768 74,545
----------------- -----------------
Bank loans
The bank loans are secured by inter-group guarantees with certain subsidiary undertakings.
Finance lease liabilities
Minimum Minimum
lease lease 
payments Interest Principal payments Interest Principal
2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Less than one year 89 6 83 110 11 99
One to two years 59 4 55 87 6 81
Two to five years 88 2 86 144 5 139
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
236 12 224 341 22 319
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 128
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
19 Financial instruments
The Group holds and uses financial instruments to finance its operations and to manage its interest rate, liquidity
and currency risks. The Group primarily finances its operations using share capital, retained profits and borrowings.
The Group’s bank loans are non-equity funding instruments and further details of which are set out in Note 18.
As directed by the Board the Group does not engage in speculative activities using derivative financial instruments.
Group cash reserves are held centrally to take advantage of the most rewarding short term investment
opportunities. Forward foreign currency contracts are used in the management of currency risk.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk
and pricing risk. The Board reviews and agrees the policies for managing each of these risks and they have remained
unchanged since 2012.
Capital management
The Group defines the capital that it manages as its total equity and net debt balances. The Group manages its
capital structure in the light of current economic conditions and its strategic objectives to ensure that it is able to
continue as a going concern whilst maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of debt and
equity balances.
The Group manages its medium term bank debt to ensure continuity of funding and the policy is to arrange funding
ahead of requirements and to maintain sufficient undrawn committed facilities. A key objective is to ensure
compliance with the covenants set out in the Group's bank facility agreements.
From time to time the Group purchases its own shares on the market; the timing of these purchases depends on
market prices.  Primarily the shares are intended to be used for issuing shares under the Group's Long Term Incentive
Plan and other employee share schemes. Buy and sell decisions are made on a specific transaction basis by the Board.
There has been no change in the objectives, policies or processes with regard to capital management during the
years ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012.
Financial risks
The Group has exposure to a number of financial risks through the conduct of its operations. Risk management is
governed by the Group's operational policies, guidelines and authorisation procedures which are outlined in the
Strategic Report on pages 14 to 47. The key financial risks resulting from financial instruments are liquidity risk,
interest rate risk, credit risk, foreign currency risk and pricing risk.
In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the
Group’s earnings. Over the longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would
have an impact on consolidated earnings. For instance, a weakening of pound sterling on the foreign currency
market would increase the cost of certain raw materials, whereas a strengthening would have the opposite effect.
(a) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Group has sufficient liquidity to meet its financial liabilities as they fall
due and does so by monitoring cash flow forecasts and budgets. Cash resources are largely and normally generated
through operations and short term flexibility is achieved by bank facilities. Bank debt is raised centrally and the
Group aims to maintain a balance between flexibility and continuity of funding by having a range of maturities on
its borrowings. Details of the Group borrowing facilities are provided on page 132.
(b) Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy is to review regularly the terms of its available short term borrowing facilities and to assess
individually and manage each long term borrowing commitment accordingly. The Group borrows principally at
floating rates of interest and where appropriate uses interest rate swaps to generate the desired interest rate profile,
thereby managing the Group's exposure to interest rate fluctuations. 129 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
19 Financial instruments (continued)
Financial risks (continued)
(b) Interest rate risk (continued)
Approximately 75 per cent of core debt is covered by interest rate swaps of varying maturities up until 2018, which
reflects the maturity date of the related loans and medium term requirements, in accordance with Group policy. The
Group classifies its interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value. The fair value of interest rate
swaps is £151,000 asset (2012: £576,000 liability) and is adjusted against the hedging reserve on an ongoing basis.  
The period that the swaps cover is matched against the debt maturity in order to fix the impact on the Income
Statement.  During the year £1,268,000 (2012: £468,000) has been recognised in Other Comprehensive Income for the
year with £544,000 (2012: £314,000) being reclassified from equity to the Income Statement. The Interest rate swaps
have been fully effective in the period.
With the addition of the fuel hedges (Note 19(e)) and forward contracts this gives a total of £2,787,000 (2012:
£2,050,000) recognised in Other Comprehensive Income for the year with £1,447,000 (2012: £840,000) being
reclassified from equity to the Income Statement.
Sensitivity analysis
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the balance sheet date would have increased / decreased equity and
profit by the amounts shown below. The sensitivity analysis has been undertaken before the effect of tax. The sensitivity
analysis of the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk has been determined based on the change taking place at the
beginning of the financial year and held constant throughout the reporting period. 
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant and considers the
effect of financial instruments with variable interest rates, financial instrument at fair value through profit or loss or
available for sale with fixed interest rates and the fixed rate element of interest rate swaps. The analysis is performed on
the same basis for 2012.
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Increase of 100 basis points (233) (413)
Decrease of 100 basis points 233 413
--------------- ---------------
(c) Credit risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit
evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount and, where appropriate, credit
insurance cover is obtained. This provides excellent intelligence to minimise the number and value of bad debts 
and ultimately provides compensation if bad debts are incurred. An ageing of trade receivables is shown in Note 15 on
page 126.
Investments are allowed only in liquid securities and only with counterparties that have a credit rating equal to or
better than the Group. Transactions involving derivative financial instruments are with counterparties with whom the
Group has a signed netting agreement as well as sound credit ratings. Given their high credit ratings, management
does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations.
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk
is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, in the balance
sheet. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 130
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
19 Financial instruments (continued)
(d) Foreign currency risk
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than
sterling. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily Euros and US Dollars.
The Group’s policy is to cover all significant foreign currency commitments in respect of trade receivables and trade
payables by using forward foreign currency contracts. Most of the forward exchange contracts have maturities of less
than one year after the balance sheet date. Where necessary, the forward exchange contracts are rolled over at maturity.
The Group classifies its forward exchange contracts hedging forecasted transactions as cash flow hedges and states
them at fair value. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is £5,000 asset (2012: £8,000 asset) and is adjusted
against the hedging reserve on an ongoing basis. At 31 December 2013 all outstanding forward exchange contracts
have a maturity date within six months.
2013 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 2012
Sterling Euro US Total Sterling Euro US Total
Dollars Dollars
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents 16,406 1,190 56 17,652 10,248 849 4 11,101
Trade receivables 21,058 2,548 - 23,606 17,614 2,235 - 19,849
Secured bank loans (40,000) (12,997) - (52,997) (62,825) (11,500) - (74,325)
Trade payables (32,514) (7,690) (814) (41,018) (22,527) (6,922) (515) (29,964)
Forward exchange contracts (221) (63) - (284) (1,518) (106) - (1,624)
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
Balance sheet exposure (35,271) (17,012) (758) (53,041) (59,008) (15,444) (511) (74,963)
--------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- - -------------- --------------- ---------------
Sensitivity analysis
A 10 per cent strengthening and weakening of the following currencies against the pound sterling at 31 December
2013 would have increased / decreased equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This calculation assumes
that the change occurred at the balance sheet date and had been applied to risk exposures existing at that date.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular other exchange rates and interest rates, remain constant. The
analysis is performed on the same basis for 2012:
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
10 per cent strengthening of £ against € 1576 1457
10 per cent weakening of £ against € (1576) (1457)
10 per cent strengthening of £ against $ 96 64
10 per cent weakening of £ against $ (96) (64)
--------------- - --------------
(e) Pricing risk
Where appropriate the Group uses hedging instruments to mitigate the risks of significant forward price rises of fuel in
relation to expected consumption. The current hedges held are in place until 31 December 2014. The Group classifies
its fuel hedges as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value. The fair value of the fuel hedges is £440,000 liability
(2012: £1,056,000 liability) and is adjusted against the hedging reserve on an ongoing basis. The period that the fuel
hedges cover is matched against future expected purchases in order to fix the impact on the Income Statement.  During
the year £1,519,000 (2012: £1,582,000) has been recognised in Other Comprehensive Income with £903,000 (2012:
£526,000) being reclassified from equity to the Income Statement. The fuel hedges have been fully effective in the
period. 131 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
19 Financial instruments (continued)
(f)  Other risks
Further information about the Group's strategic and financial risks is contained in the Strategic Report on pages 14
to 47.
Effective interest rates and maturity of liabilities
At 31 December 2013 there were £224,000 (2012: £319,000) Group borrowings on a fixed rate. Interest rate swaps
have been taken out with the intention to fix the interest on 75 per cent of the Group’s core debt. The interest rate
profile of the financial liabilities were:
31 December 2013 Fixed or Effective
variable interest 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5
rate rate Total or less months years years
% £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 16) Variable 2.46 (17,652) (17,652) - - -
Bank loans Variable 2.46 52,997 - 3,370 25,000 24,627
Finance lease liabilities Fixed 5.33 224 41 42 55 86
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
35,569 (17,611) 3,412 25,055 24,713
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
31 December 2012 Fixed or Effective
variable interest 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5
rate rate Total or less months years years
% £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 16) Variable 2.65 (11,101) (11,101) - - -
Bank loans Variable 2.65 74,325 - - - 74,325
Finance lease liabilities Fixed 6.98 319 53 46 81 139
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
63,543 (11,048) 46 81 74,464
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
At 31 December the undiscounted outstanding contractual payments (including interest) of financial liabilities was
as follows:
31 December 2013 Fixed or Carrying 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5
Variable value Total or less months years years
rate £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Bank loans Variable 52,997 55,256 565 3,902 25,848 24,941
Trade payables Variable 41,018 41,018 41,018 - - -
Finance lease liabilities Fixed 224 236 44 45 59 88
Financial liabilities Fixed 284 921 386 306 92 137
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
94,523 97,431 42,013 4,253 25,999 25,166
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
31 December 2012 Fixed or Carrying 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5
Variable value Total or less months years years
rate £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Bank loans Variable 74,325 79,897 916 911 1,827 76,243
Trade payables Variable 29,964 29,964 29,964 - - -
Finance lease liabilities Fixed 319 341 59 51 87 144
Financial liabilities Fixed 1,624 1,614 753 710 150 1
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
106,232 111,816 31,692 1,672 2,064 76,388
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 132
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
19 Financial instruments (continued)
Borrowing facilities
The total bank borrowing facilities at 31 December 2013 amounted to £145.0 million (2012: £170.0 million) of which
£92.0 million (2012: £95.7 million) remained unutilised. There are additional seasonal bank working capital facilities
of £20.0 million available between 1 February and 31 August each year. The undrawn facilities available at 31
December 2013, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met, were as follows:
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Committed:
- Expiring in more than two years but not more than five years 50,373 70,675
- Expiring in one year or less 16,630 -
Uncommitted:
- Expiring in one year or less 25,000 25,000
----------------- -----------------
92,003 95,675
---------------- ----------------
The committed facilities are all revolving credit facilities with interest charged at a variable rate based on LIBOR.
The total borrowing facilities at 31 December 2013 amounted to £145 million. This was due to the cancellation at no
cost by the Group on 19 July 2013 of a £25 million loan facility that was due to mature in August 2015.
The maturity profile of borrowing facilities is structured to provide balanced, committed and phased medium term
debt. Following the cancellation of the £25 million loan facility and the renewal of certain other bank facilities on 16
August 2013 the committed facilities are set out as follows:
Cumulative
Facility Facility
£’000 £’000
Committed facilities:
Q3 2016 50,000 50,000
Q3 2015 50,000 100,000
Q3 2014 20,000 120,000
On demand facilities:
Available all year 25,000 145,000
Seasonal (February to August inclusive) 20,000 165,000
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
A comparison by category of the book values and fair values of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group at 31
December 2013 are shown below:
2013 2012
Book amount Fair Value Book amount Fair value
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade and other receivables 32,373 32,373 30,218 30,218
Cash and cash equivalents 17,652 17,652 11,101 11,101
Bank loans (52,997) (52,061) (74,325) (73,689)
Finance lease liabilities (224) (236) (319) (341)
Trade and other payables (65,598) (65,598) (59,889) (59,889)
Interest rate swaps, forward
contracts and fuel hedges (284) (284) (1,624) (1,624)
----------------- -----------------
Financial (liabilities) / assets – net (69,078) (94,838)
Other assets / (liabilities) – net 244,510 278,412
----------------- -----------------
175,432 183,574
---------------- ---------------- 133 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
19 Financial instruments (continued)
Estimation of fair values
The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial
instruments reflected in the table.
(a) Derivatives
Derivative contracts are either marked to market using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward
price at the relevant rate and deducting the current spot rate. For interest rate swaps broker quotes are used.
(b) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Fair value is calculated based on the expected future principal and interest cash flows discounted at the market rate of
interest at the balance sheet date.
(c)  Finance lease liabilities
The fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for
homogeneous lease agreements. The estimated fair values reflect changes in interest rates.
(d)  Trade and other receivables / payables
For receivables / payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair
value. All other receivables / payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
(e) Fair value hierarchy
The table below analyses financial instruments, measured at fair value, into a fair value hierarchy based on the
valuation techniques used to determine fair value.
• Level 1 : quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level 2 : inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, 
either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
• Level 3 : inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
31 December 2013 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Derivative financial liabilities - 284 - 284
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
31 December 2012
Derivative financial liabilities - 1,624 - 1,624
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
20 Employee benefits
The Company sponsors a funded defined benefit pension scheme in the UK. The Scheme is administered within a trust
which is legally separate from the Company. The Trustee Board is appointed by both the Company and the Scheme's
membership and acts in the interest of the Scheme and all relevant stakeholders, including the members and the
Company. The Trustee is also responsible for the investment of the Scheme's assets.
The Defined Benefit Section of the Scheme closed to future service accrual with effect from 30 June 2006 and
members no longer pay contributions to the Defined Benefit Section. Company contributions after this date are used
to fund any deficit in the Scheme and to meet the expenses associated with administering the Scheme, as determined
by regular actuarial valuations.
The Trustee is required to use prudent assumptions to value the liabilities and costs of the Scheme whereas the
accounting assumptions must be best estimates. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 134
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
20 Employee benefits (continued)
The Scheme poses a number of risks to the Company, for example longevity risk, investment risk, interest rate risk and
inflation risk. The Trustee is aware of these risks and uses various techniques to control them. The Trustee has a number
of internal control policies including a risk register which are in place to manage and monitor the various risks they
face. The Trustee's investment strategy incorporates the use of Liability Driven Investments ("LDIs") to minimise
sensitivity of the actuarial funding position to movements in interest rates and inflation rates.
The Scheme is subject to regular actuarial valuations, which are usually carried out every three years. The next actuarial
valuation is due to be carried out with an effective date of 5 April 2016. These actuarial valuations are carried out in
accordance with the requirements of the Pensions Act 2004 and include deliberate margins for prudence. This
contrasts with these accounting disclosures which are determined using best estimate assumptions.
A formal actuarial valuation was carried out as at 5 April 2013. The results of that valuation have been projected to 31
December 2013 by a qualified independent Actuary. The figures in the following disclosure were measured using the
Projected Unit Method.
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are as follows:
2013 2012 2011
£’000 £’000 £’000
Present value of a Scheme liabilities (262,900) (246,573) (237,621)
Fair value of Scheme assets 258,553 254,785 250,587
----------------- ----------------- -----------------
Net amount recognised at year end 
(before any adjustments for deferred tax) (4,347) 8,212 12,966
----------------- ----------------- -----------------
The amounts recognised in Comprehensive Income are:
The current and past service costs, settlement and curtailments, together with the net interest expense for the year are
included in the employee benefits expense in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. Remeasurements of the net
defined benefit liability are included in Other Comprehensive Income.
2013 2012
Service cost: £’000 £’000
Net interest credit recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement (576) (709)
-------------- --------------
Remeasurements of the net liability:
Difference between actual and expected investment return 5,108 2,261
Loss arising from changes in financial assumptions 13,437 2,636
Loss arising from changes in demographic assumptions 987 -
Experience (gain) / loss (797) 4,166
----------------- -----------------
Charge recorded in Other Comprehensive Income 18,735 9,063
----------------- -----------------
18,159 8,354
---------------- ---------------- 135 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
20 Employee benefits (continued)
The principal actuarial assumptions used were:
2013 2012
Liability discount rate 4.60% 4.70%
Inflation assumption – RPI 3.40% 2.90%
Inflation assumption – CPI 2.40% 1.90%
Rate of increase in salaries n/a n/a
Revaluation of deferred pensions 2.40% 1.90%
Increases for pensions in payment:
CPI pension increases (maximum 5% pa) 2.40% 1.90%
CPI pension increases (maximum 5% pa, minimum 3% pa) 3.20% 3.10%
CPI pension increases (maximum 3% pa) 2.20% 1.80%
Mortality assumption - before retirement Same as for after retirement Ax92 Tables
Mortality assumption - after retirement (males) S1PMA tables S1PMA tables
Loading 105% 105%
Projection Basis Year of birth Year of birth
CMI_2012 1.0% CMI_2010 1.0%
Mortality assumption - after retirement (females) S1PFA tables S1PFA tables
Loading 105% 105%
Projection Basis Y ear of birth Year of birth
CMI_2012 1.0% CMI_2010 1.0%
Future expected lifetime of current pensioner at age 65:
Male aged 65 at year end 21.9 21.8
Female age 65 at year end 24.1 23.9
Future expected lifetime of future pensioner at age 65:
Male aged 45 at year end 23.2 23.2
Female age 45 at year end 25.6 25.5
Changes in the present value of assets over the period:
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Fair value of assets at start of period 254,785 250,587
Interest income 11,961 11,898
Return on assets (excluding amount included in net interest expense) (5,108) (2,261)
Contributions from the employer 5,600 3,600
Benefits paid (8,685) (9,039)
----------------- -----------------
Fair value of assets at end of period 258,553 254,785
----------------- -----------------
Actual return on assets over the period 6,853 9,637
----------------- ----------------- Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 136
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
20 Employee benefits (continued)
Changes in the present value of liabilities over the period: 2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Liabilities at start of period 246,573 237,621
Interest cost 11,385 11,189
Remeasurement (gains) / losses:
Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 13,437 2,636
Actuarial losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 987 -
Other experience (gains) / losses (797) 4,166
Benefits paid (8,685) (9,039)
----------------- -----------------
Liabilities at end of period 262,900 246,573
---------------- ----------------
The split of the Scheme’s liabilities by category of: 2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Active members --
Deferred pensioners 133,817 124,925
Pensioners in payment 129,083 121,648
----------------- -----------------
262,900 246,573
---------------- ----------------
Average duration of the Scheme’s liabilities at the end of the period (years) 19 19
---------------- ----------------
The major categories of Scheme assets are as follows: 2013 2012
Return seeking assets £’000 £’000
UK Equities 40,428 34,256
Overseas Equities 13,836 11,881
Other Equity Type Investments 38,200 38,201
----------------- -----------------
Total return seeking assets 92,464 84,338
---------------- ----------------
Debt instruments £’000 £’000
Corporate Bonds - 1,144
Insured Pensioners 1,295 781
Cash 2,564 1,398
Liability Driven Investments 162,230 167,124
----------------- -----------------
Total matching assets 166,089 170,447
----------------- -----------------
Total market value of assets 258,553 254,785
---------------- ----------------
The Scheme has no investments in the Company or in property occupied by the Company.
The Company expects to contribute £4,600,000 to the Scheme during year ending 31 December 2014.
Sensitivity of the liability value to changes in the principal assumptions
If the discount rate was 0.1 per cent higher (lower), the Scheme liabilities would decrease by approximately £4.5
million (increase by £4.6 million) if all the other assumptions remained unchanged.
If the inflation assumption was 0.1 per cent higher (lower), the Scheme liabilities would increase by £1.7 million
(decrease by £2.8 million).
If life expectancies were to increase (decrease) by 1 year, the Scheme liabilities would increase by £8.7 million
(decrease by £8.5 million) if all the other assumptions remained unchanged. 137 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
20 Employee benefits (continued)
Share-based payments
Marshalls plc 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (The “LTIP”)
Share-based payment awards have been made during the year in accordance with the rules of the LTIP . The LTIP rules
provide for the award of Matching Shares and Performance Shares subject, in the case of Matching Shares, to
participants investing a stated percentage of their annual bonus in the LTIP . The minimum investment by Executive
Directors is 50 per cent of annual bonus until they have reached the share ownership targets set by the Board;
thereafter they may choose to invest annual bonus on a voluntary basis. The annual bonus investment is used to
purchase Investment Shares to qualify for a Matching Share award, subject to defined limits. In addition, Performance
Shares may be awarded to participants without requiring a qualifying investment. 
Both Matching Shares and Performance Shares are subject to the achievement of a 3 year performance target. The
awards lapse if the performance target is not met over the 3 year vesting period. Matching Share awards are
dependent on an improvement in reported earnings per share, while Performance Share awards are dependent on
an improvement in reported earnings per share and operating cash flow, each measured using International
Financial Reporting Standards. The Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion with regard to the effect of
one-off items. Full details of the performance criteria are set out in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 63
to 90.
The Performance and Matching Shares take the form of options which are settled by physical delivery of shares. The
exercise price is nil in relation to any of these grants and there is no entitlement to dividends during the vesting
period. There are no market conditions associated with these instruments.
Number of Date of Vesting
instruments grant period
Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 587,957 17 March 2011 3 years
761,601 17 March 2011 3 years
853,598 20 March 2012 3 years
667,875 17 April 2013 3 years
243,412 10 September 2013 3 years
Equity settled awards granted to other employees 157,927 17 March 2011 3 years
673,039 17 March 2011 3 years
833,746 20 March 2012 3 years
791,012 17 April 2013 3 years
--------------------
5,570,167
-------------------
Weighted average Weighted average
share price at share price at
date of grant date of grant
(pence per Number of (pence per Number of
share) options share) options
2013 2013 2012 2012
Outstanding at 1 January 108 3,951,999 97 4,864,886
Granted 134 1,702,299 101 1,727,042
Lapsed 107 (84,131) 84 (2,639,929)
---------------------- ----------------------
Outstanding at 31 December 116 5,570,167 108 3,951,999
- - -------------------- - - --------------------
There were no share options exercised or that expired during the period.  None of the options were exercisable at 31
December 2013. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 138
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
20 Employee benefits (continued)
The fair value of services received in return for Matching Shares granted are measured by reference to the fair value of
these awards at the date of grant. The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a Black-
Scholes valuation model. 
10 September 17 April 20 March 17 March
2013 grant 2013 grant 2012 grant 2011 grant
Fair value at grant date (pence per share) 60 106 84 94
Share price on date of grant (pence per share) 173 127 101 113
Expected volatility used in the modelling
under the Black-Scholes valuation model 65.0% 65.0% 65.0% 65.0%
Dividend yield 6.0% 6.0% 6.0% 6.0%
Risk-free interest rate (based on national
government bonds) 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0%
The Company's share price at 31 December 2013 was 176.25p.
The expected volatility is wholly based on the historic volatility (since the Scheme of Arrangement in July 2004),
adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments are as follows
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Awards granted and total expense recognised as employee costs 716 468
-------------- --------------
Performance Incentive Plan ("PIP")
Share-based payment awards have been made during the year in accordance with the rules of the PIP . Full details of the
performance criteria and the basis of operation of the PIP are set out in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages
63 to 90.
Equity settled awards are settled by physical delivery of shares. The following equity settled awards have been granted.
Number of Vesting
instruments £’000 Date of grant period
Equity settled awards granted to Directors 
of Marshalls plc 927,365 839 31 December  2011 4 years
374,762 365 31 December  2012 3 years
364,858 643 31 December  2013 2 years
Equity settled awards granted to other 
employees 466,179 422 31 December  2011 4 years
233,609 228 31 December  2012 3 years
215,388 380 31 December  2013 2 years
------------------- --------------
2,582,161 2,877
------------------- -------------- 139 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
20 Employee benefits (continued)
Analysis of closing balance (deferred into shares): £’000 Shares
Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 800 453,875
Equity settled awards granted to other employees 788 447,226
----------------- -----------------
1,588 901,101
----------------- ----------------
Number of Number of
Value options Value options
£’000 2013 £’000 2012
Outstanding at 1 January 1,403 1,439,243 1,261 1,393,544
Granted 1,023 580,246 593 608,371
Change in value of notional shares 1,209 - 171 -
Element released (2,047) (1,118,388) (622) (562,672)
------------------- ----------------------- ----------------- -------------------
Outstanding at 31 December 1,588 901,101 1,403 1,439,243
------------------- ----------------------- ----------------- -------------------
The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments are as follows:
2013 2012
£'000 £'000
Awards granted and total expense recognised as employee costs 942 746
- --------------- ----------------
Further details in relation to the Directors are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 90.
Employee Profit Sharing Scheme
At 31 December 2013 the scheme held 42,414 (2012: 42,414) ordinary shares in the Company.
21 Deferred taxation
Recognised deferred taxation assets and liabilities 
Assets Liabilities
2013 2012 2013 2012
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment - - (13,206) (15,631)
Intangible assets - - (335) (390)
Inventories - - (500) (776)
Employee benefits 869 - - (1,890)
Equity settled share-based expenses 757 - - -
Other items - - (1,189) (1,371)
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
Tax assets / (liabilities) 1,626 - (15,230) (20,058)
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
The 2013 Budget on 20 March 2013 announced that the UK Corporation Tax rate will reduce to 20 per cent by 2015.
Reductions in the rate to 21 per cent (effective April 2014) and 20 per cent (effective April 2015) were substantially
enacted, following the receipt of Royal Assent, in July 2013. This will reduce the Group's future current tax charge
accordingly. The deferred taxation liability at 31 December 2013 has been calculated based on the rate of 20 per cent
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The deferred taxation asset of £869,000 (2012 liability: £1,890,000) in relation to employee benefits is in respect of the
net deficit for the defined benefit obligations of £4,347,000 (2012: £8,212,000 net surplus) (Note 20) calculated at 20
per cent (2012: 23 per cent). Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 140
21 Deferred taxation (continued)
Deferred tax assets on capital losses have not been recognised due to uncertainty around the future use of the losses.
Movement in temporary differences
Year ended 31 December 2013 Recognised in
Other
1 January Recognised in Comprehensive 31 December
2013 income Income 2013
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment (15,631) 2,425 - (13,206)
Intangible assets (390) 55 - (335)
Inventories (776) 276 - (500)
Employee benefits (1,890) (988) 3,747 869
Equity settled share-based expenses - 581 176 757
Impact on Other Comprehensive Income
of the change in rate of deferred tax 92 - 275 367
Other items (1,463) 193 (286) (1,556)
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
(20,058) 2,542 3,912 (13,604)
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
Year ended 31 December 2012 Recognised in
Other
1 January Recognised in Comprehensive 31 December
2012 income Income 2012
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment (17,967) 2,336 - (15,631)
Intangible assets (796) 406 - (390)
Inventories (1,089) 313 - (776)
Employee benefits (3,242) (732) 2,084 (1,890)
Equity settled share-based expenses 63 (63) - -
Impact on Other Comprehensive Income
of the change in rate of deferred tax (268) - 360 92
Other items (1,924) 163 298 (1,463)
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
(25,223) 2,423 2,742 (20,058)
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
22 Capital and reserves
Share capital Issued and paid up
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
At 1 January and at 31 December 49,845 49,845
-------------------------- --------------------------
Number of 25 pence ordinary shares 199,378,755 199,378,755
-------------------------- --------------------------
Consolidation reserve
On 8 July 2004 Marshalls plc was introduced as the new holding company of the Group by way of a Court approved
Scheme of Arrangement under Section 425 of the Companies Act 1985. The restructuring was accounted for as a
capital reorganisation and accounting principles were applied as if the Company had always been the holding
company of the Group. The difference between the aggregate nominal value of the new shares issued by the Company
and the called up share capital, capital redemption reserve and share premium account of Marshalls Group plc (the
previous holding company) was transferred to a consolidation reserve.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 141 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
22 Capital and reserves (continued)
Hedging reserve
This represents the gains and losses arising on derivatives used for cash flow hedging, principally from the Group's
interest rate swaps, energy price contracts and forward exchange contracts.
Dividends
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors. The dividends have not been
provided and there were no income tax consequences.
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
3.50 pence (2012: 3.50 pence) per ordinary share 6,861 6,861
-------------- --------------
23 Non-controlling interests
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Non-controlling interests
At 1 January 3,884 3,394
Issue of shares - 610
Share of result for the period (634) (14)
Foreign currency translation differences 45 (106)
----------------- -----------------
At 31 December 3,295 3,884
----------------- -----------------
24 Analysis of net debt
1 January Other 31 December
2013 Cash flow changes 2013
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash at bank and in hand 11,101 6,534 17 17,652
Debt due within one year - (3,370) - (3,370)
Debt due after one year (74,325) 24,838 (140) (49,627)
Finance leases (319) 100 (5) (224)
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
(63,543) 28,102 (128) (35,569)
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Net increase in cash equivalents 6,534 5,114
Cash outflow from decrease in debt and lease financing 21,568 8,247
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations (128) 197
----------------- -----------------
Movement in net debt in the period
27,974 13,558
Net debt at 1 January (63,543) (77,101)
----------------- -----------------
Net debt at 31 December (35,569) (63,543)
----------------- ----------------- Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 142
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
25 Operating leases 
The Group had non-cancellable minimum lease payments to be paid in respect of operating leases on property,
plant, machinery and vehicles as follows:
31 December 2013 More
6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5 than 5
Total or less months years years years
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Expiring:
within one year 1,025 799 226 - - -
between one and five years 20,477 2,918 2,902 5,213 9,444 -
in more than five years 31,430 788 784 1,573 4,873 23,412
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
52,932 4,505 3,912 6,786 14,317 23,412
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
31 December 2012 More
6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5 than 5
Total or less months years years years
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Expiring:
within one year 2,462 1,657 805 - - -
between one and five years 11,453 2,356 2,343 3,507 3,247 -
in more than five years 35,287 1,053 1,047 2,100 6,238 24,849
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
49,202 5,066 4,195 5,607 9,485 24,849
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
The minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases (above) comprise property £30,069,000 (2012:
£31,417,000) and plant, machinery and vehicles £22,863,000 (2012: £17,785,000). During 2012 the Group sold an
office building for £6.1 million and agreed to lease this back under an operating lease over 25 years. Rent payments
are non contingent and there is no option to purchase the property back at the end of the lease.
Certain leased properties have been sublet by the Group. Sublease payments of £106,371 (2012: £118,020) are
expected to be received during the following financial year. An amount of £118,720 (2012: £118,470) was recognised
as income in the Consolidated Income Statement within net operating costs in respect of subleases.
26 Contingencies
Royal Bank of Scotland plc has issued, on behalf of Marshalls plc, the following irrevocable letters of credit relating to
the Group’s cap on self insurance for employers liability and vehicle insurance.
Beneficiary Amount Period Purpose
XL Winterthur £300,000 19 Dec 2003 to 31 Oct 2014 Employers’ liability
Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance 
(London Management) Limited £1,610,000 23 Dec 2011 to 31 Oct 2014 Employers’ liability
Aviva Insurance Limited £350,000 19 Mar 2013 to 31 Oct 2014 Vehicle insurance 143 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
27 Related parties
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its Directors.
Transactions with key management personnel
Other than the Directors, there are no senior managers in the Group who are relevant for establishing that Marshalls
has the appropriate expertise and experience for the management of its business.
Directors of the Company and their immediate relatives control 0.24 per cent (2012: 0.47 per cent) of the voting
shares of the Company.
In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to Directors, and contributes to a defined
contribution pension scheme on their behalf. Further details in relation to Directors are disclosed in the Directors’
Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 90.
28 Accounting estimates and judgements
Management discussed with the Audit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Group’s critical
accounting policies and estimates and the application of these policies and estimates. The accounting policies are set
out in Note 1 on pages 104 to 113.
Note 2 contains information about the assumptions and judgements made relating to the identification of operating
segments for the Group as defined in IFRS 8 "Operating Segments".
In relation to the Group’s intangible fixed assets (Note 12) impairment tests have been undertaken using commercial
judgement and a number of assumptions and estimates in relation to relevant trading volumes and margins. These
estimates have been determined using the best available information derived from a combination of business specific
analysis (both current and historic) and the latest available external industry forecasts. Determining whether goodwill
is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated. The value in
use calculation involves an estimation of the future cash flows of CGUs and also the selection of appropriate discount
rates in order to calculate present values.
Note 20 contains information about the principal actuarial assumptions used in the determination of defined benefit
pension obligations. These key assumptions include discount rates, the expected return on net assets, inflation rates
and mortality rates and have been determined following advice received from an independent qualified Actuary.
Sensitivity analysis is disclosed in Note 20 on pages 133 to 139.
Note 21 contains details of the Group's deferred taxation. Liabilities recognised are determined by reference to the
likelihood of settlement and the likelihood that assets are received is based on assumptions of future actions. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 144
Notes 2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Fixed assets
Investments 32 339,634 338,728
Deferred taxation assets 33 569 -
------------------- -------------------
340,203 338,728
------------------- -------------------
Current assets
Debtors 34 958 898
Current liabilities
Creditors 35 (13,861) (346)
------------------- -------------------
Net current (liabilities) / assets (12,903) 552
------------------- -------------------
Net assets 327,300 339,280
------------------- -------------------
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 36 49,845 49,845
Share premium account 37 22,695 22,695
Own shares 37 (9,512) (9,571)
Capital redemption reserve 37 75,394 75,394
Equity reserve 37 1,463 388
Profit and loss account 37 187,415 200,529
------------------- -------------------
Equity shareholders’ funds 327,300 339,280
------------------- -------------------
Approved at a Directors’ meeting on 26 March 2014.
On behalf of the Board:
M. Coffey I.D. Burrell
Chief Executive Finance Director
The Notes on pages 146 to 150 form part of these Company Financial Statements.
Company Balance Sheet
at 31 December 2013 145 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Company Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
for the year ended 31 December 2013
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Loss for the financial year (4,761) (2,767)
Equity dividends (10,292) (10,292)
------------------- -------------------
Deficit for the financial year (15,053) (13,059)
Purchase of own shares - (57)
Share-based expenses 2,904 718
Deferred tax on share-based expenses 169 -
Share-based expense adjustment - (250)
------------------- -------------------
Net reduction in shareholders’ funds (11,980) (12,648)
Shareholders’ funds at beginning of year 339,280 351,928
------------------- -------------------
Shareholders’ funds at end of year 327,300 339,280
------------------- -------------------
The Notes on pages 146 to 150 form part of these Company Financial Statements. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 146
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
29 Accounting policies
The following paragraphs summarise the main accounting policies of the Company, which have been applied
consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Company’s Financial Statements. The
Company is exempt from the requirement to give its own disclosures as the entity forms part of the Consolidated
Financial Statements of Marshalls plc which has included disclosures under IFRS 7 – “Financial Instruments: Disclosures”.
(a) Basis of preparation
The Company Financial Statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with UK
GAAP and applicable accounting standards. There is no material difference between historical cost profits and those
reported in the profit and loss account.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own
profit and loss account.
Under FRS 1 the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that
the consolidated cash flows for all Group companies are included within the Consolidated Financial Statements.
As these Parent Company Financial Statements are presented together with the Consolidated Financial Statements,
the Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed
transactions or balances with wholly owned entities which form part of the Group (or investees of the Group
qualifying as related parties). The Consolidated Financial Statements of Marshalls plc within which this Company is
included are set out on pages 98 to 143.
(b) Investments
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment where appropriate. The Directors consider
annually whether a provision against the value of investments on an individual basis is required. Such provisions
are charged in the profit and loss account in the year.
(c) Pension costs
Defined benefit scheme
The Company participates in a Group wide pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. The
defined benefit section of the Scheme was closed to future service accrual in July 2006. The assets of the Scheme
are held separately from those of the Company. The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets
and liabilities of the Scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRS 17 – “Retirement
benefits”, accounts for the Scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
Defined contribution scheme
Contributions to the Group’s defined contribution Pension Scheme are determined as a percentage of employees’
earnings and are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
(d) Share-based payment transactions
The Company enters into equity settled share-based payment transactions with its employees and its subsidiaries'
employees. In particular, annual awards are made to Directors under a long term incentive plan.
The long term incentive plan allows Company employees to acquire shares of Marshalls plc. The fair value of options
granted to Company employees is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The
fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become
unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option valuation
model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised
as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest. Where the Company grants
options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises an increase in the cost of investment
in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiaries'
financial statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity. 147 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
29 Accounting policies (continued)
(e) Own shares held by employee benefit trust
Transactions of the Group-sponsored employee benefit trust are included in the Group Financial Statements. In
particular, the trust’s purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
(f) Cash and liquid resources
Cash comprises cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand, less overdrafts repayable on demand.
Liquid resources are current asset investments which are disposable without curtailing or disrupting the business
and are either readily convertible into known amounts of cash, at or close to their carrying values, or traded in an
active market. Liquid resources comprise term deposits of less than one year.
(g) Leased assets
The rental cost of all operating leases is charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lives
of the leases.
(h) Current tax
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively
enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable, in respect of previous years.
(i) Deferred taxation
Full provision is made for deferred taxation resulting from timing differences, other than those specifically excluded
by FRS 19 – “Deferred Taxation”, between profits computed for taxation purposes and profits stated in the Financial
Statements to the extent that there is an obligation to pay more tax in the future as a result of those timing
differences. Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that they are expected to be recoverable.
Deferred taxation assets and liabilities are not discounted.
(j) Financial guarantees
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies
within the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.  In
this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes
probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
(k) Dividends
Dividends on non-equity shares are recognised as a liability and accounted for on an accruals basis.  Equity
dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared (appropriately authorised and no
longer at the discretion of the Company).
30 Operating costs
The audit fee for the Company was £20,000 (2012: £20,000). This is in respect of the audit of the Financial Statements.
Fees paid to the Company's auditors for services other than the statutory audit of the Company are not disclosed in the
notes to the Company Financial Statements since the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group are required to
disclose non-audit fees on a consolidated basis. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 148
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued)
31 Ordinary dividends: equity shares
2013 2012
per share £’000 per share £’000
2012 Final: paid 6 July 2013 3.50p 6,861 3.50p 6,861
2013 Interim: paid 7 December 2013 1.75p 3,431 1.75p 3,431
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
5.25p 10,292 5.25p 10,292
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors. The dividends have not been
provided and there were no income tax consequences.
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
3.50 pence (2012: 3.50 pence) per ordinary share 6,861 6,861
--------------- ---------------
32 Investments
£’000
At 1 January 2013 338,728
Additions 906
-----------------
At 31 December 2013 339,634
-----------------
Investments comprise shares in the subsidiary undertaking, Marshalls Group Limited. The Directors have considered
the carrying value of the Company's investments and are satisfied that no provision is required.
The increase in the year of £906,000 represents adjustments to the number of shares expected to vest in respect of
share-based payment awards granted to employees of Marshalls Group Limited.
The principal subsidiary undertakings of Marshalls plc at 31 December 2013 are set out below. With the exception of
Marshalls NV, Xiamen Marshalls Import Export Company Limited and Marshalls Landscape Products (North America)
Inc. all the companies operate within the United Kingdom and are registered in England and Wales. Marshalls NV is
registered in Belgium. Xiamen Marshalls Import Export Company Limited is registered in China and Marshalls
Landscape Products (North America) Inc. is registered in the USA.
Subsidiaries Principal activities Class of share % Ownership
Marshalls Group Limited Intermediate holding company Ordinary 100
Marshalls Mono Limited * Landscape products Ordinary 100
manufacturer and supplier and
quarry owner supplying a wide
variety of paving, street furniture
and natural stone products
Marshalls NV * Landscape products Ordinary 66.7
manufacturer and supplier
Xiamen Marshalls Import Sourcing and distribution of Ordinary 100
Export Company Limited * natural stone products
Marshalls Landscape Products Landscape products supplier Ordinary 100
(North America) Inc.*
* held by subsidiary undertaking 149 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
33 Deferred taxation
Recognised deferred taxation assets and liabilities
Assets Liabilities
2013 2012 2013 2012
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Equity settled share-based expenses 569 - - -
--------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
Movement in temporary differences
Year ended 31 December 2013
Recognised
1 January Recognised in equity 31 December
2013 in income reserve 2013
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Equity settled share-based expenses - 400 169 569
--------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
34 Debtors
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Corporation tax 958 898
--------------- ---------------
No debtors were due after more than one year.
35 Creditors
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 13,861 346
--------------- ---------------
36 Share capital
As at 31 December 2013, the issued and fully paid up share capital was as follows:
Issued and paid up
2013 2013 2012 2012
Number Nominal Number Nominal
Value Value
£’000 £’000
At 31 December 199,378,755 49,845 199,378,755 49,845
-------------------------- ----------------------- ----------------------- -----------------------
Disclosures regarding share-based expenses are given in Note 20 on pages 137 to 139. Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 150
37 Share capital and reserves
Ordinary Share Capital
share premium Ownredemption Equity Profit and 
capital account shares reserve reserve loss account
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2013 49,845 22,695 (9,571) 75,394 388 200,529
Share-based expenses - - - - 906 1,998
Deferred tax on share-based
expenses - - - - 169 -
Disposal of own shares - - 59 - - (59)
Loss for the financial year - - - - - (4,761)
Equity dividends - - - - - (10,292)
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ---------------- ----------------
At 31 December 2013 49,845 22,695 (9,512) 75,394 1,463 187,415
----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ---------------- ----------------
38 Capital and leasing commitments
The Company had no capital or leasing commitments at 31 December 2013 or 31 December 2012.
39 Bank facilities
The Group's banking arrangements are in respect of Marshalls plc, Marshalls Group Limited and Marshalls Mono
Limited with each company being nominated borrowers. The operational banking activities of the Group are
undertaken by Marshalls Group Limited and the Group's bank debt is largely included in Marshalls Group Limited's
balance sheet.
40 Contingent liabilities
Royal Bank of Scotland plc has issued, on behalf of Marshalls plc, the following irrevocable letters of credit relating to
the Group’s cap on self insurance for employers liability and vehicle insurance.
Beneficiary Amount Period Purpose
XL Winterthur £300,000 19 Dec 2003 to 31 Oct 2014 Employers liability
Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance 
(London Management) Limited £1,610,000 23 Dec 2011 to 31 Oct 2014 Employers liability
Aviva Insurance Limited £350,000 19 Mar 2013 to 31 Oct 2014 Vehicle insurance
41 Pension scheme
The Company is the sponsoring employer of the Marshalls plc Pension Scheme (the “Scheme”) which has both a defined
benefit and a defined contribution section. The assets of the Scheme are held in separately managed funds which are
independent of the Group’s finances. As set out in Note 20 the Group introduced a new defined contribution section to
the Scheme to replace the existing defined benefit section which closed to future service accrual on 1 July 2006.
Full details of the Scheme are provided in Note 20. The Company is unable to identify its share of the Scheme assets and
liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis. Accordingly, as permitted by FRS 17 – “Retirement benefits”, the Scheme
has been accounted for in these Company Financial Statements as if the Scheme was a defined contribution scheme.
The latest funding valuation of the Scheme was carried out as at 6 April 2013 and was updated for FRS 17 purposes to
31 December 2013 by a qualified independent Actuary. Certain employees are members of the Company Defined
Contribution Scheme which invests funds in which the contributions for each individual member are separately
identifiable and the benefits calculated accordingly.
The Group deficit on an FRS 17 basis at 31 December 2013 was £4,347,000 (2012: £nil). FRS17 stipulates that an
employer should only recognise a Pension Scheme surplus as an asset to the extent that it is able to recover that surplus
either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the Scheme.  Refunds from the Scheme had
not been agreed at the measurement date.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued) 151 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013
Shareholder analysis at 31 December 2013
Size of Number of Number of
Shareholding Shareholders % Ordinary Shares %
1 to 500 1,984 40.81 299,662 0.15
501 to 1,000 610 12.55 460,125 0.23
1,001 to 2,500 820 16.86 1,402,265 0.70
2,501 to 5,000 566 11.64 2,031,455 1.02
5,001 to 10,000 369 7.59 2,616,681 1.31
10,001 to 25,000 203 4.18 3,202,887 1.61
25,001 to 100,000 156 3.21 7,533,267 3.78
100,001 to 250,000 58 1.19 8,677,240 4.35
250,001 to 500,000 38 0.78 14,338,113 7.19
500,001 and above 58 1.19 158,817,060 79.66
- - -------------- - - -------------- -------------------------- - - --------------
4,862 100.0 199,378,755 100.0
--------------- --------------- ------------------------ - - - ------------
Financial calendar
Preliminary Announcement of results for the year ended
31 December 2013 Announced 26 March 2014
Annual General Meeting 14 May 2014
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 Payable 4 July 2014
Half - yearly results for the year ending 31 December 2014 Announcement 29 August 2014
Half - yearly dividend for the year ending 31 December 2014 Payable 5 December 2014
Results for the year ending 31 December 2014 Announcement March 2015
Shareholder Information
Advisers
Stockbrokers
Citigroup Global Markets Limited
Numis Securities Limited
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
Legal Advisers
Herbert Smith LLP
Eversheds LLP
Pinsent Masons LLP
Financial Advisers
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
Bankers
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc
Barclays Bank plc
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZZ
Shareholders’ enquiries should be addressed to the Registrars at
the above address (Tel: 0870 707 1134)
Registered Office
Landscape House
Premier Way
Lowfields Business Park,  Elland
Halifax HX5 9HT
West Yorkshire
Telephone: 01422 306400
Internet address:
http://www.marshalls.co.uk
Registered in England and Wales: No. 5100353 Marshalls plc     Annual Report 2013 152
Financial History - Consolidated Group
Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to
December December December December December
2009* 2010* 2011* 2012* 2013
Consolidated Income Statement £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 288,869 299,934 325,112 300,938 307,390
Net operating costs (273,301) (288,962) (310,117) (288,087) (291,300)
Operating profit (before operational 
restructuring and works closure costs,
goodwill and asset impairments) 15,568 10,972 14,995 12,851 16,090
Operational restructuring and works closure
costs, goodwill and asset impairments (7,217) - - (21,521) -
Operating profit / (loss) 8,351 10,972 14,995 (8,670) 16,090
Financial income and expenses (net) (4,314) (2,563) (3,007) (3,578) (3,064)
Redemption of debenture (7,259) - - - -
Profit before tax (before operational
restructuring and works closure costs,
goodwill and asset impairments
and redemption of debenture) 11,254 8,409 11,988 9,273 13,026
Profit / (loss) before tax (3,222) 8,409 11,988 (12,248) 13,026
Income tax (expense) / credit 1,857 (1,638) (1,071) 5,874 (67)
Profit / (loss) for the financial period before post
tax profit / (loss) of discontinued operations (1,365) 6,771 10,917 (6,374) 12,959
Post tax profit / (loss) of discontinued operations 613 579 (3,661) 676 503
Profit / (loss) for the financial period (752) 7,350 7,256 (5,698) 13,462
Profit / (loss) for the period attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent (752) 7,350 7,390 (5,684) 14,096
Non-controlling interests - - (134) (14) (634)
(752) 7,350 7,256 (5,698) 13,462
Financial Information
EBITA 9,107 12,405 16,174 (7,423) 17,028
EBITDA 26,778 29,101 32,413 6,538 30,227
EBITA before operational restructuring and works
closure costs, goodwill and asset impairments 16,324** 12,405 16,174 14,098** 17,028
EBITDA before operational restructuring and
works closure costs, goodwill and 
asset impairments 33,995** 29,101 32,413 28,059** 30,227
Earnings per share (pence) ***
Basic: (continuing operations) (0.76) 3.46 5.66 (3.26) 6.94
Basic: (total operations) (0.42) 3.76 3.78 (2.91) 7.20
Basic continuing operations: (before operational
restructuring and works closure costs
goodwill and asset impairments and
redemption of debenture) 5.04** 3.46 5.66 5.52** 6.94
Dividends per share (pence) – IFRS 3.05 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25
Dividend cover (times) – IFRS (continuing) 1.65** 0.66 1.08 1.12** 1.32
Dividends per share (pence) – Traditional *** 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25
Dividend cover (times) – Traditional (continuing) 0.96** 0.66 1.08 1.12** 1.32
Year end share price (pence) 86.0 104.8 90.5 97.5 176.25
Tax rate (%) 19.5 19.5 8.9 (16.3)** 0.5
* the comparatives have been restated in respect of discontinued operations
**  before operational restructuring and works closure costs, goodwill and asset impairments and redemption of debenture stock in 2009
*** earnings and dividends per share have been adjusted by the "bonus factor" inherent in the Rights Issue
Consolidated Balance Sheet 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets 256,943 236,906 249,271 225,882 198,082
Current assets 122,737 113,610 128,640 116,735 120,832
Total assets 379,680 350,516 377,911 342,617 318,914
Current liabilities (77,132) (94,616) (88,550) (64,440) (74,137)
Non-current liabilities (121,449) (57,660) (83,297) (94,603) (69,345)
Net assets 181,099 198,240 206,064 183,574 175,432
Net borrowings (69,156) (66,841) (77,101) (63,543) (35,569)
Gearing ratio 38.2% 33.7% 37.4% 34.6% 20.3%  PRINTED B Y TAY L OR BL O XHAM LIMITED
