 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Annual Report and Accounts
2014 Strategic report
Marshalls is the UK’s leading hard landscaping 
manufacturer and has been supplying superior natural 
stone and innovative concrete products to the construction, 
home improvement and landscape markets since the 1890s. 
As a market leader in its sector, the Group operates 
quarries and manufacturing sites throughout the UK. 
Marshalls is committed to quality in everything it does, including environmental 
and ethical best practice and continues to improve health and safety performance 
for the benefit of its 2,000 strong workforce.
Strategic Report
01  Financial highlights and  
current priorities
02 At a Glance
04 Chairman's Statement
06  Chief Ex ecutiv e ’ s Stat ement
08 Business Model
10 Operational Review
14 Strategy
16 Key Performance Indicators
18  Risk Management and 
Principal Risks
21 Corporate Responsibility
25 Financial Review
Corporate Governance
32 Board of Directors and Secretary
34 Corporate Governance Statement
41  Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities
43 Remuneration Committee Report
46 Remuneration Report
51 Annual Remuneration Report
62 Audit Committee Report
65  Dir ec t ors ’ R epor t – 
Other Regulatory Information
67 Independent Auditor’s Report
Financial Statements
70 Consolidated Income Statement
71  C onsolidat ed Stat ement 
of Comprehensive Income
72 Consolidated Balance Sheet
73  C onsolidat ed C ash 
Flow Statement
74  C onsolidat ed Stat ement 
of Changes in Equity
76  Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
109  Parent Company Statement 
of Comprehensive Income
110  Parent Company Statement 
of Changes in Equity
112  Company Balance Sheet
113  Notes to the Company 
Financial Statements
119  F inancial H ist or y – 
Consolidated Group
Shareholder Information
121 Shareholder Information
2 At a glance page 2 8 Business model page 8
Front cover – Scoutmoor Yorkstone and Pave Drain, Holborn Circus, London
Above – Keyblok Charcoal, Platform Edge Tactile, Rail Coping Unit and Birco Lite Drainage Channel, London Bridge Station Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
01
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Find us on Facebook 
MarshallsGroup
Financial highlights
 — Good revenue growth of 17% to £358.5 million (2013: £307.4 million) 
 — Improvement in operating margins to 7.1%
 — Strong profit before tax growth of 72% to £22.4 million 
(2013: £13.0 million)
 — Return on capital employed improved 54% (440 basis points) 
to 12.5% (2013: 8.1%)
 — EPS from continuing operations up 46% to 10.13 pence 
(2013: 6.94 pence)
 — Final dividend increased by 14% to 4.00 pence (2013: 3.50 pence) 
per share 
Current priorities
 — To increase output to meet growing demand and to deliver benefits 
from operational gearing
 — To further strengthen the Marshalls brand by focusing on innovation, 
service and new product development
 — To grow our business both organically and selectively and, as 
appropriate, through acquisitions
 — To continue to develop and invest in our strategic growth initiatives, 
particularly in Rail, Newbuild Housing, Water Management and 
Street Furniture
 — To develop and grow the International business profitably
Follow us on Twitter 
@MarshallsGroup
Follow us on YouTube 
MarshallsTV
Revenue
£358.5m +17%
(2013: £307 .4m) 
Profit before tax
£22.4m +72%
(2013: £13.0m)
Operating profit
£25.3m +57%
(2013: £16.1m)
Final dividend recommended
4.00p +14%
(2013: 3.50p)
EPS
10.13p +46%
(2013: 6.94p, 
continuing operations)
25
Financial Review  
page 25
Find out more online
www.marshalls.co.uk
Follow us on LinkedIn 
Marshalls
14
Strategy 
page 14
Return on capital employed
12.5% +54%
(2013: 8.1%) Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
02
Domestic 
Customers: National and independent builders merchants, 
DIY groups, professional landscapers, garden designers and 
driveway installers
Products: Garden paving, driveways, garden paths, 
kerbs and edging, garden accessories and garden walling
Public Sector and Commercial
Customers: Local authorities, commercial architects, 
specifiers, contractors, house builders and builders merchants
Products: Block paving, natural stone, kerb, street furniture, 
water management, traffic calming, walling and mortars
At a Glance
Our business
Marshalls believes that the better our environment, the 
better we can be, and strives to create products that improve 
landscapes and create happier and healthier communities.
Est. 1890
10
Read more in our 
Operational Review on page 10
We have been supplying superior natural 
stone and innovative concrete products to 
the construction, home improvement and 
landscape markets since the 1890s.
2,000 employees
Our success depends on our people. 
Because of that, we are committed to the 
highest health and safety measures for all 
of our employees.
Expansion
The Company continues to focus on 
extending its global reach into Europe, 
Asia, the Middle East and North America.
Our operations
The Group operates quarries and manufacturing sites 
throughout the UK, with its national network of manufacturing 
and distribution sites, and has operations in Belgium and 
representation in other international markets including its 
US sales office and its sourcing and quality office in China. 
The UK business consists of a single integrated logistics 
and distribution operation supplied by centrally managed 
production units. We produce and deliver a range of 
products that are sold into each end market area. The same 
capital equipment produces products for both the Domestic 
and the Public Sector and Commercial end markets and this 
flexibility remains a key operational objective.
The structure gives flexibility in the development of 
individual products under the Marshalls brand whilst 
providing strategic focus through the integrated 
national and centrally administered functions.
Our customers and product ranges
Marshalls is the market-leading supplier of hard landscaping 
products to both the Domestic and Public Sector and 
Commercial end markets. We are the complete external 
landscaping, interior design, paving and flooring products 
business – from planning and engineering, to guidance 
and delivery. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
03
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Key areas of geographic focus:
Europe through Marshalls NV Belgium/France
North America through distribution agreements such 
as Unilock and Stone Pavers
Middle East through special projects in the  
UAE/Kuwait/Qatar
Marshalls has been voted a Business 
Superbrand every year since 2010. 
Superbrands is an annual initiative to identify 
and celebrate Britain’s strongest consumer 
and business-to-business brands.
13
Read more about our 
achievements on page 13
Our global reach
The Group has a unique national network of manufacturing 
and distribution sites and has a wide geographical spread. 
An expanding geographic coverage continues to enable 
Marshalls to be close to its customers.
As well as quarrying and processing significant quantities of 
British natural stone, Marshalls has major supplier partnerships 
in India and China and also imports other specialist stone from 
around the world. The Group continually seeks opportunities 
to expand reserves and geographical coverage.
Our achievements
The Group has pioneered the ethical sourcing of natural stone 
paving from India, China and Vietnam. Marshalls' "Fairstone" 
products combine the attributes of fair trade and ethical sourcing 
by incorporating regular independent supply chain audits. 
Fairstone Sawn Versuro King Size Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
04
Chairman’s Statement
Our values
Marshalls is built on 
four key values.
Demonstrating leadership.
We believe in driving the industry forward. 
It is an ambition we've been acting on for 
120 years.
Delivering excellence.
Our products have to be innovative, 
our people have to be the best and 
our workmanship has to be perfect.
Building trust.
Everyone at Marshalls acts with integrity, 
treating customers and their projects with 
care and respect.
Being sustainable.
We use the world to source our products, 
so we have a responsibility to look after it.
Andrew Allner
Chairman
Overview
I am pleased to report that 2014 has been a good year for your Company 
and that 2015 has started well. We have seen a significant improvement 
in revenue and profitability as the Group has taken full advantage of the 
more favourable market conditions. The new Executive team is now fully 
established and we have a clear strategy. Furthermore the Construction 
Products Association (“CP A”) has continued to strengthen its forecasts 
during the last year and the Government’s positive announcements 
on infrastructure projects should also provide further opportunity for 
growth. Our primary objective remains to improve the profitability 
of all our businesses and to deliver sustainable shareholder value. 
Results
I am delighted to report that Marshalls’ revenue is up 17 per cent 
to £359 million and profit before tax is up 72 per cent to £22.4. 
The Group’s earnings per share at 10.13 pence is up 46 per cent.
Dividends
We recognise the importance of dividends to our shareholders. The Group 
has a progressive dividend policy with the objective of achieving up to 
2 times dividend cover over the business cycle. As earnings increase we 
plan to share the increase between strengthening cover and progressively 
raising the rate of dividend. Accordingly the Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 4.00 pence (2013: 3.50 pence) per share which, together with 
the interim dividend of 2.00 pence (2013: 1.75 pence ) per share, makes 
a combined dividend of 6.00 pence (2013: 5.25 pence ) per share. This 
represents dividend cover of 1.7 times (2013: 1.3 times) and an increase 
in the total dividend for the year of 14 per cent. 
Strategy
As your Chairman, it is my responsibility to lead and manage the 
Board in its key task of debating and formulating strategy.
The Marshalls brand remains central and the Group has again 
received “Superbrand” status for 2015. Marshalls is a benchmark 
for excellence in the industry and the 3 cornerstone themes 
of customer service, quality and sustainability remain essential to 
the brand and put the customer at the very heart of our business. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
05
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Continual innovation is a key focus and it has been particularly 
encouraging to see the success of new products in areas such 
as drainage and water management and rail.
A full explanation of our strategic objectives is set out in our 
Strategy Report on pages 14 and 15.
Governance
I and the Board are committed to promoting the highest standards 
of corporate governance and ensuring effective communication 
with shareholders.
This year’s Annual Report has a fresh new feel and incorporates 
a number of features to make it easier to read and understand. 
We hope this will provide shareholders with a clearer picture of 
the Group’s business model, its objectives and key strategic themes 
and will ensure a fair, balanced and understandable assessment 
of the Group’s position and prospects.
Board development is a constant priority and we continue to 
challenge the effectiveness of the Board against detailed and 
continually developing performance criteria. In my report last year 
I set out a number of specific Board actions for 2014 including 
diversity in the context of Board succession planning, enhanced 
Board reporting and creation of opportunities to add value from 
the experience and expertise of the Non-Executive Directors.
I am pleased to report good progress against all these actions. 
In particular, we have agreed a framework for succession planning 
for the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, over the 
next few years. The first step of this plan is the appointment of 
a new female Non-Executive Director and we hope to make an 
announcement on this shortly. 
During the year, a detailed internal evaluation of Board performance was 
again carried out by the Company Secretary. The review sought to improve 
the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and of individual Directors. 
We have worked hard at Marshalls to ensure that the Board culture is open 
and transparent and that there are no restrictions or pressures on Board 
members which result in views or opinions not being expressed. Against 
this background I believe an internal review works well.
I am pleased to report that no areas of material concern were highlighted 
from this evaluation though, of course, a number of new areas were 
identified for improvement during 2015. These include allowing time 
for deeper debate on strategic issues, increasing focus on dynamic risk 
reporting, identifying particular business areas for closer review and 
increasing opportunities for Non-Executive Directors to meet senior 
management below Board level through an extended programme of site 
visits. I also plan to increase my own contact with shareholders to ensure 
that shareholder views continue to be fully understood. I will report on 
progress against these initiatives next year.
I am also pleased that, under our Remuneration Policy, management 
receives a large proportion of their remuneration in shares which must 
be retained for up to 5 years. This ensures a strong alignment between 
the interests of management and our shareholders.
Board changes
The transition of the senior executive team is now complete. Martyn 
Coffey is firmly established as Chief Executive. Jack Clarke became 
Group Finance Director on 1 October 2014, joining us from AMEC plc, 
where he was Executive Vice President and Director of Change 
Management. He is already making a difference and bringing a more 
operationally focused approach to the finance function.
Both David Sarti and Ian Burrell retired from the Board during the year. 
I would like to thank them both for their significant contributions to 
Marshalls over many years and for their support in ensuring a smooth 
transition to the new team.
People
Marshalls’ success is critically dependent on the positive interaction 
between the Group’s employees, customers, suppliers and other 
stakeholders. We have an outstanding group of employees and, 
on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of them for their 
hard work, professionalism, and ongoing support and commitment 
to Marshalls.
Outlook
2015 has started well. We are planning for good further progress in 
2015 against a background of continuing favourable market conditions.
Andrew Allner
Chairman Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
06
Chief Executive’s Statement
Martyn Coffey
Chief Executive
Introduction
2014 has been a strong year for Marshalls with significant revenue 
and profit growth. Trading conditions remain positive and the Group 
continues to experience strong order intake and sales growth in all its 
end markets. Marshalls’ operating flexibility has enabled manufacturing 
output to be increased without significant increase in the Group’s cost 
base and this is delivering benefits from our operational gearing. The 
Group’s underlying operating margin has increased from 5.2 per cent to 
7.6 per cent during the year and volume growth of 13 per cent in 2014 
has been significantly ahead of CP A market forecasts.
Marshalls is a leading, trusted brand with a strong market position and 
maintains clear values and excellent sustainability and environmental 
credentials. The Group has maintained its national geographic coverage 
and retains lowest cost to market and industry-leading customer service. 
I am particularly pleased to report that there has been a significant 
performance improvement in our smaller UK businesses during 
2014 and they have collectively delivered volume revenue growth of 
£9.3 million and related profit growth of £2.7 million. These businesses 
include Street Furniture, Mineral Products and Stone Cladding. Stone 
Cladding is a particular growth area and Marshalls has been supplying 
stone for a prestigious office building in the City of London.
Jack Clarke joined Marshalls as Group Finance Director on 
1 October 2014. Most recently, Jack has been Executive Vice President 
and Director of Change Management at AMEC plc, having previously 
served as CFO of AMEC’s £850 million power and process division and 
its US$1.5 billion environment and infrastructure division. His extensive 
experience is already contributing to the Board and the Executive. 
2014 trading summary
Marshalls' revenue, from continuing operations, for the year 
ended 31 December 2014 was up 17 per cent at £358.5 million 
(2013: £307.4 million). Revenue for the six months ended 
31 December 2014 was up 18 per cent compared with the 
second half of 2013. This continued growth in the second half 
has been seen in the Public Sector and Commercial and also 
the Domestic end markets. 
Summary
The Group’s current priorities are:
Increase output.
To increase output to meet growing 
demand and to deliver benefits from 
operational gearing.
Grow our business.
To grow our business both organically and 
selectively through acquisitions.
Further strengthen.
To further strengthen the Marshalls brand, 
focusing on innovation, service and new 
product development.
Continue to develop.
To continue to develop and invest in our 
strategic growth initiatives.
Develop and grow.
To develop and grow the International 
business profitably. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
07
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
The strategic focus is 
now firmly on growth.
Continued emphasis is being placed on innovation 
and growth initiatives and the further development of 
the Marshalls brand across all the Group's businesses.
Sales to the Public Sector and Commercial end market, which represent 
approximately 64 per cent of Group sales, were up 20 per cent for the 
year, on a continuing basis, compared with 2013. 
Sales to the UK Domestic end market, which represent approximately 
30 per cent of Group sales, were up 9 per cent compared with the prior 
year. The survey of domestic installers at the end of February 2015 
revealed order books of 9.0 weeks (2014: 9.3 weeks).
International revenue grew by 27 per cent during 2014 and is 
now 6 per cent of Group sales. Activity levels in Belgium have been 
encouraging despite the subdued market background in mainland 
Europe. During the second half we have acted to ensure that the 
operations in Belgium are better aligned with market opportunities 
and this has resulted in a charge of £2 million in relation to the 
restructuring of Marshalls NV.
Operating profit from continuing operations was £25.3 million 
(2013: £16.1 million). EBITDA from continuing operations was 
£38.5 million (2013: £30.2 million). 
Basic EPS from continuing operations was 10.13 pence (2013: 6.94 pence), 
an increase of 46 per cent. Reported EPS from total operations was 
10.13 pence (2013: 7.20 pence).
Current priorities
The Group has a number of current priorities that will grow and develop 
the business this year and into the future. The current focus for Marshalls 
is to maximise the benefits from the improved market conditions in order 
to generate volume growth and benefit from operational gearing. We 
have already seen operating margins improve during 2014 and a key 
objective will be to deliver further improvement in profit margins in all 
businesses and end markets. We continue to experience strong growth 
in a number of key areas, for example, Rail, Newbuild Housing, Water 
Management and Street Furniture. 
The key priorities remain service, quality, design, innovation and 
a commitment to research and development, sustainability and 
an integrated product offer. The Group’s key strategic initiatives are 
set out in detail in the Strategic Report on pages 14 and 15.
Health and safety is a key priority and Marshalls remains committed 
to improving the quality and safety of the working environment by 
maintaining the highest health and safety standards. During 2014 
there was a 30 per cent reduction in days lost from workplace incidents, 
which is comfortably ahead of the Group’s headline target of 10 per cent.
The Group is well positioned to grow both organically and through 
acquisition. We will put increasing focus on our growth objectives in 2015 
and 2016.
Marshalls continues to have customer service as a key KPI and 
maintains industry leading standards of product quality, availability 
and “on time” delivery. The combined customer service measure 
continued to be in excess of 97 per cent throughout 2014. 
The Group has continued to focus on innovation and new product 
development to drive sales growth in areas of particular opportunity 
and to further strengthen and differentiate the Marshalls brand. The 
Group intends to invest further resource over the medium term to 
drive further innovation and new product development. One specific 
area of opportunity is “intelligent street furniture, ” which would see the 
incorporation of new technology into street lighting systems and items 
such as bollards and bins. The technology facilitates the communication 
of information; for example, bins that can signal when they need 
emptying and bollards that can inform pedestrians where to go. 
Developing the International market is also a key priority and the Group will 
continue to invest in its International structures in order to grow this part of 
the business profitably and to develop opportunities to promote growth. 
Martyn Coffey
Chief Executive Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
08
Sourcing
 — International supply chain 
– natural sandstone, granite 
and limestone from India, 
China and Vietnam;
 — UK sourcing of natural 
stone and aggregates from own 
quarries and third parties; and 
 — UK sourcing of other 
raw materials.
Manufacture
 — Centrally directed and locally 
managed production units;
 — Operating assets produce for 
each “ end market”;
 — Landscape, driveway and 
garden products; and
 — Horizontal and vertical 
and external and internal.
Business Model
How we do business
Operational gearing
The Group has extensive reserves 
of UK natural stone and through its 
ongoing commitment to the Ethical 
Trading Initiative ("ETI") Base Code has 
pioneered the ethical sourcing of natural 
stone from India, China and Vietnam.
The Group manufactures and 
supplies landscape, driveway and 
garden products from a range of 
materials, being principally concrete 
and natural stone. Marshalls has a 
world class Manufacturing, Innovation 
and Development team.
How we operate
Marshalls' principal goal is to create value through 
creating better landscapes. 
We place a strong emphasis on product innovation and service delivery initiatives. 
We offer flexibility in our product mix, providing exceptional customer service 
and manufacturing expertise. We are also driven by a commitment to our values 
which, in turn, make us an industry leader when it comes to sustainable practices.
6
Read more in the Chief Executive's 
Statement on page 6
As markets improve, there continues to be a real opportunity to benefit from improved 
operational gearing derived from efficient sales and production levels and from the 
lower cost base. Continued emphasis on value added products and improving product 
availability should generate further improvements in operating margins.
Distribution
 — Single integrated logistics 
and distribution operation;
 — Own fleet with over 150 specialist 
vehicles; and
 — National geographic coverage.
Due to the scale of our operations, 
and our network of regional centres, 
97 per cent of our customers 
are less than 2 hours away. 
This continues to be a key 
competitive advantage.
Innovation
Innovation remains a key element of the Group's business model both in terms 
of new product development and through machinery design and installation. 
Additional resources continue to be invested in research and development. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
09
Creating better spaces through continual 
innovation and product development.
Our customers are at the heart of our business. Our priority is to provide them 
with high quality products, exceptional service and trust in our sustainable 
practices. Reinforcing those core elements is the Marshalls brand, driven by 
our strong values, which ensures that Marshalls is synonymous with “Creating 
Better Landscapes “ .
How we add value
Our 
customers
Service
Sustainability    
Quality
Our brand
Marshalls is a benchmark for excellence. 
We have been voted a Business Superbrand every 
year since 2010. Emphasis is being placed on the 
further extension of the Marshalls brand across 
all areas of hard landscaping.
14 Strategy page 14 16 KPIs page 16
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Our brand
Our brand
Our customers
Our customers range from Domestic and 
consumer to Public Sector and Commercial. 
We seek to exceed the expectations of 
customers in all of our end markets. 
Service
We pride ourselves on our customer 
service and technical advice across both 
our Domestic/Homeowner products and our 
Commercial products. The Group sets industry 
leading standards of product quality, availability 
and "on‑time" delivery.
Quality
We are committed to producing new products 
that better any existing market offering and 
to make them from the best materials we 
can source. The Group maintains its technical 
expertise in all areas.
Sustainability
We believe in conducting our 
business in a manner that 
achieves sustainable growth 
whilst incorporating and 
demonstrating a high degree 
of social responsibility.  Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
10
Indian Basalt at Leadenhall Building, 
London
Operational Review
Economic market background
The construction market has seen positive growth over the last 
23 months. The Office for National Statistics reported construction 
output growth of 5.9 per cent in the 12 months to November 2014, 
compared to the previous 12 months and the CPA is now estimating 
growth of 7.4 per cent for 2014. The CPA continued to strengthen its 
forecasts during 2014 and background economic conditions in the 
UK have continued to improve. 
In January 2015, the Office for National Statistics estimated that GDP 
in 2014 as a whole was 2.6 per cent higher than in 2013 and that in 
Q4 2014, GDP was estimated to have been 3.4 per cent higher than 
the pre-economic downturn peak in Q1 2008. The CPA’s GDP forecast 
for 2015 is for 2.7 per cent growth. 
Outlook remains strong with the CP A’s current forecast for construction 
output standing at 5.3 per cent growth in 2015 and 4.2 per cent, 
3.4 per cent and 3.9 per cent in the following three years.
In the UK Domestic end market the CPA estimates that Private 
Housing Repair, Maintenance and Improvement expenditure, 
a proxy for Domestic end market demand, will increase by 
11.5 per cent in 2014. Growth of 4.0 per cent is expected in 2015 with 
increases of 4.0 per cent and 3.0 per cent forecast for 2016 and 2017. 
GfK’s Consumer Confidence index has improved significantly in the last 
18 months and has stabilised at a roughly neutral position for the last 
6 months.
The prospects for the Eurozone continue to remain more subdued. 
Consumer price inflation is likely to be around 1.9 per cent in 2015, 
which compares with 1.8 per cent in 2014.
Market
In the Public Sector and Commercial end market Marshalls focuses 
on developing products which help architects, local authorities, 
housebuilders and contractors to "Create Better Spaces", whether 
in street furniture, natural stone paving for the internal or external 
environment, concrete block paving, water management or 
anti-terrorist products.
Marshalls continues to be the only landscape products company able 
to provide a fully integrated product offer to the Public Sector and 
Commercial end market.
145,000
140,000
135,000
130,000
125,000
120,000
115,000
110,000
105,000
100,000
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014 (e)
2015 (f )
2016 (f )
2017 (f )
2018 (f )
Construction Output Forecast Chart
 Total construction output  CP A forecast values (e = estimate, f = forecast)
Value Chained Volume Measure 2011 Prices (£ millions) Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
11
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Marshalls continues to invest in products, sales and technical resource 
for those parts of the market where it anticipates growth, in particular 
in rail infrastructure, house building and water management.
The CPA’s overall view is that in the short term it is private housing 
and infrastructure that are driving the upturn in construction output.
Rail infrastructure spend is being particularly boosted by Network 
Rail’s nationwide work programme supported by a few major projects, 
including Crossrail. As a consequence output from rail infrastructure 
spending is forecast to grow by 8 per cent in 2015.
Private housing has driven a significant part of the recovery of construction 
output, which is being partly boosted by Government schemes such as 
“Help to Buy” and the “Funding for Lending Scheme” . Private housing starts 
are estimated to have grown by 14 per cent in 2014 and further growth 
of 8 per cent is currently forecast by the CP A for 2015. In the light of this, 
Marshalls has dedicated sales support in the housebuilding sector and has 
secured framework agreements with 13 of the top 25 house builders.
Outside of housebuilding and infrastructure, construction output 
continues to gain strength; the CPA estimates that Other New Work 
(excluding Infrastructure), a proxy for demand, was up 0.4 per cent 
in 2014 and forecasts an increase of 5.9 per cent in 2015. Growth 
of 5.8 per cent and 5.7 per cent is currently forecast for 2016 and 
2017 respectively.
The Group has experienced technical and sales teams focused on the 
key growth areas and by working with clients, architects and contractors 
they are able to provide a unique overview of the project and offer 
a complete solution comprising a full suite of products.
Relationships with clients, architects and contractors and the development 
of systems to identify projects are a key priority. The visibility of projects 
through externally measured sources such as Barbour ABI gives a measure 
of control over securing future volume. This approach continues to 
deliver good growth in bespoke street furniture, natural stone paving 
and sustainable urban drainage products.
Historically, the Barbour ABI chart has provided a reliable picture of future 
demand. It consolidates planning information for all the sub sectors 
requiring hard landscaping. On average, there is a 12 month lag between 
contracts being awarded and the landscape products being required, 
so it provides 12 month advance information on likely future demand.
Economic conditions in 
the UK have continued 
to improve.
Outlook remains strong with the CP A 's current forecast for construction 
output standing at 5.3 per cent growth in 2015 and 4.2 per cent, 
3.4 per cent and 3.9 per cent in the following three years.
£ Million
350
300
250
200
150
Jan 05
150
May 05
Sep 05
Jan 06
May 06
Sep 06
Jan 07
May 07
Sep 07
Jan 08
May 08
Sep 08
Jan 09
May 09
Sep 09
May 10
Sep 10
Jan 10
May 11
Sep 11
Jan 11
May 12
Sep 12
Jan 12
May 13
Sep 13
Jan 13
May 14
Sep 14
Jan 14
May 15
Sep 15
Jan 15
Contracts awarded (12 Month Rolling Average) of hard landscape value 
(Barbour ABI with 12 Month Lag) Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
12
Fletcher Bank Sandstone at 
St Paul's School, London
Operational Review continued
Market continued
Marshalls’ Domestic customers range from DIY enthusiasts to professional 
landscapers, driveway installers and garden designers. Sales continue 
to be driven through the Marshalls Register of Accredited Landscapers 
and Driveway Installers. 
Marshalls offers homeowners the inspiration and product ranges 
needed to create gardens and driveways that integrate effortlessly 
with people’s lifestyles.
The target customer groups for installed patios and driveways occupy 
9.1 million homes, a far bigger potential market than new build. These 
customers are generally older, have equity in their property, earn more 
and often have savings. An ageing population is combining with a lifestyle 
trend towards more outdoor living and the “outdoor room” . Through 
marketing and product development the Group continues to promote 
solutions to meet the aspirations of these customer groups.
The Group’s Domestic strategy is to drive more sales through quality 
installers. In 2014, Marshalls increased its membership of the Register 
and has plans in place to further increase this membership in 2015. 
The Marshalls Register remains the largest installer scheme in the UK. 
The Group is committed to increasing the marketing support to the 
installer base and the Marshalls Register through increased training, 
marketing materials and sales support. The Group has also continued 
to focus on product innovation in order to assist installers with 
significantly increased order books.
Internationally Marshalls has placed a key geographic focus on 
northern Europe, North America and the Middle East. 
In western Europe, the Group’s strategy in the Domestic end market is 
to be a niche, premium product supplier. The Group's manufacturing 
site in Belgium provides a physical stock location in mainland Europe 
from which to supply the wider Group’s specialist product portfolio. 
The aim is to provide products that are not readily available in 
mainland Europe. There are over 40 million people living within a 
two-hour drive from the site, an area that covers Belgium, Holland, 
northern France and parts of Germany.
In 2014, a £2 million restructuring provision was undertaken at 
Marshalls NV which will allow for a reduction in the cost of 
manufacturing at its sites. 
All domestic products sales volume MAT – index Jan 2013=100
120
115
110
105
100
95
90
Installer Order Books (Average number of weeks' work)
13.0
12.0
11.0
10.0
9.0
8.0
7.0
Jan 13
Feb 13
Mar 13
Oct 13
Sep 13
Aug 13
Jul 13
Jun 13
May 13
Apr 13
Jan 14
Dec 13
Nov 13
Apr 14
Mar 14
Feb 14
Jul 14
Jun 14
May 14
Sep 14
Aug 14
Oct 14
Nov 14
Dec 14
Installer order books and Domestic sales volume MLP Domestic MAT – Index January 2013  Order Books linear trend
 Installer Order Books (last value) Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
13
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Marshalls now has a sales presence in North America and is supplying 
natural stone to commercial projects via distribution relationships 
with US companies such as Unilock and Stone Paving.
Marshalls continues to supply a number of high profile projects in 
the Middle East, in particular focusing on driving sales in the United 
Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Qatar. In 2014, Marshalls supplied King 
Abdulaziz International Airport in Saudi Arabia with £1 million of 
bespoke lighting, as well as paving to the world’s largest shopping 
centre in Kuwait.
Operations
The Group operates its own concrete production facilities as well as 
quarries throughout the United Kingdom producing paving, walling, 
masonry and cladding products and is supported by a centrally managed 
logistics and distribution operation. The structure gives the Group 
operational flexibility through the optimisation of the production and 
logistics footprint to provide nationwide lowest cost to market products.
in the UK, the Group has a unique manufacturing network of 13 concrete 
manufacturing sites with enough capacity to absorb medium term 
demand and the flexibility for further capacity and capability investment.
The well invested capital equipment provides the flexibility to 
manufacture products for both the Public Sector and Commercial 
and the Domestic end markets and this operational flexibility remains 
a key objective. Manufactured products from this network are 
combined with ethically sourced natural stone products imported 
from India, China and Vietnam and are supplied to distributors’ depots 
or, at their request, direct to site.
The Group operates its own fleet of 44-tonne delivery vehicles 
equipped with crane offloading capability and is in the process of 
expanding this further in 2015 in order to continue to guarantee 
continuity of our high service levels as the construction industry 
is currently experiencing shortages of both vehicles and drivers.
This manufacturing, sourcing and distribution network enables the 
Group to supply products to 97 per cent of its customers within 
a 2 hour drive. The proximity to our customers enables costs to 
be controlled and unparalleled service levels to be maintained.
Marshalls has a world class Manufacturing, Innovation and 
Development team of engineers and technicians which is integrated 
to provide competitive advantage through combining machinery 
design and installation with process improvement. This capability 
and competency is a key component of the Group’s success and 
will be invested in further to accelerate new product development 
across the business in 2015. 
Product innovation
Marshalls is committed to producing new and innovative products 
that better any existing market offering.
In 2014, the Commercial side of the business extended its water 
management range with a number of innovative new drainage 
products, including Mono Beany, a market-first concrete combined 
kerb and drainage product. Marshalls has also continued to develop 
its range of market-leading permeable paving products.
On the Domestic side there has been a contemporary extension 
to the Drivesys range of patented driveway products, as well as the 
launch of Pavesys, the patio version of this product range. As well 
as being technically superior, these products are 50 per cent quicker 
to install assisting installers with lengthy order books.
Marshalls has added a new material to its Domestic range with 
vitrified paving. As well as being aesthetically pleasing this material 
is exceptionally hard wearing and has ultra low water absorbency 
qualities meaning that it will not become discoloured. This product 
is already proving to be exceptionally popular in northern Europe.
Achievements
Marshalls remains at the forefront of sustainable business. It was the first 
company in the hard landscaping industry to belong to the Ethical 
Trading Initiative ("ETI"). Marshalls is committed to the implementation 
of the ETI Base Code, pioneering the ethical sourcing of natural stone 
paving from India and China.
Building on its work with the ETI, in 2013 Marshalls announced 
a 3 year partnership with UNICEF aimed at tackling child labour 
in India’s quarrying sector and furthering children’s rights in China and 
Vietnam. As part of this partnership Marshalls donates £1 per square 
metre sold of its ethically sourced natural stone paving to the charity.
Following its acceptance in 2009, Marshalls remains a signatory 
of the United Nations Global Compact ("UNGC") and its Group 
Marketing Director is Chair of the UNGC UK network. 
In addition, The Carbon Trust has reaccredited Marshalls 3 times. Since 
2009, the Group has reduced its relative carbon footprint by more 
than 24 per cent and has made a commitment to reduce its carbon 
emissions by over 3 per cent per year until 2020.
Marshalls remains the only organisation in the world to have carbon 
labelled its entire domestic range. It continues to be a constituent 
member of the FTSE4Good UK Index and an active member of 
Business in the Community ("BITC").
In 2014, Marshalls is proud to have been accredited by the Living 
Wage Foundation as a Living Wage employer. Marshalls also received 
a "Very Good" in the BRE standard BES 6001 Sustainable Sourcing 
of Construction Product Certification for each and every one of 
its concrete product and stone manufacturing facilities in the UK. 
Marshalls was the first business in its sector to receive this certificate 
under BRE’s new and more stringent standard.
For more information on Marshalls’ sustainability work please 
see its United Nations Global Compact Communication on 
Progress ("UNGCCoP"), available to download from the 
Sustainability section of the Marshalls website.
UNGCCoP 
www.marshalls.co.uk/ UNGCCoP2015 Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
14
Strategy
Focused on growth
Corporate
Key strategic initiatives
 — To strengthen and extend the Marshalls 
brand focusing on innovation, service 
and new product development;
 — To develop “strategic growth initiatives” 
for targeted investment and focus; and
 — To continue the tight control 
of inventory, monetary working 
capital and capital expenditure.
Key strategic initiatives
 — To ensure resources are in place to meet 
the expected cyclical increase in 
demand without significant additional 
investment; and
 — To increase output to meet growing 
demand and to deliver benefits from 
operational gearing.
Operational
The Group's focus is to grow the business organically and selectively 
through acquisitions. The strategic objectives include the improvement 
of profit margins in all businesses and to increase the Group's return on 
capital employed.
Objectives and targets
A key strategic objective is to improve Return 
on Capital Employed ("ROCE") and in 2014 
ROCE increased by 54 per cent to 12.5 per cent. 
The Group has re-affirmed the objective of 
having a progressive dividend policy and, 
throughout its operations, Marshalls' aim 
is to demonstrate a high degree of 
Social Responsibility.
Objectives and targets
The Group’s objective is to retain its 
market-leading position and to continue 
to focus on innovation and customer service. 
The Group aims to be at the forefront of 
technical research and development and 
to maintain the highest level of health and 
safety and sustainability performance.
Progress in 2014
The Marshalls brand remains central to 
the Group’s strategy and we have attained 
“Superbrand” status again for 2015. The Marshalls 
brand has now been fully integrated across the 
Group’s businesses. Specific growth initiatives 
currently include Rail, Newbuild Housing, Water 
Management and Street Furniture. Net debt has 
been reduced to £30.5 million and stock 
turnover has continued to improve in 2014.
Progress in 2014
The Group’s underlying operating margin 
has increased during 2014 from 5.2 per cent 
to 7.6 per cent and volume growth has been 
significantly ahead of CPA forecasts. This 
improvement has been due to the benefits of 
operational gearing which has been enhanced 
by efficient manufacturing and reductions in 
the Group's fixed cost base in recent years. 
Long-term strategy 
Shareholder value.
To deliver sustainable shareholder 
value by improving the profitability 
of the Group’s operations and 
optimising the operating 
performance of the business.
Sustainable profitability.
To maintain a strong market 
position and sustainable 
profitability with the national 
builders’ merchants and the Public 
Sector and Commercial end market 
and to improve market share in 
other target markets.
Develop relationships.
To develop relationships with 
installers to deliver more effective 
penetration of the key domestic 
routes to market and to improve 
product mix.
Organic expansion.
To invest in selective synergistic 
acquisitions and organic expansion 
in existing and related markets and 
product categories to expand our 
core business. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
15
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Key strategic initiatives
 — To target marketing, cross selling 
opportunities and product innovation;
 — To continue to focus on “Scapes” and  
the introduction of new Scapes with 
market growth potential;
 — To focus on targeted growth areas such 
as: Water Management, Sustainable 
Urban Drainage, Traffic Management, 
Internal Stone Paving, Stone Cladding, 
Education, Home Improvement, Rail and 
Sustainability; and
 — To continue to enhance the Group’s 
portfolio of natural stone types.
Key strategic initiatives
 — To create more “pull through” demand 
from consumers and installers through 
the installers and merchant supply chain;
 — To develop further the relationship with 
installers to improve lead generation;
 — To develop further merchandising 
initiatives with merchants;
 — To promote new products to improve 
the added value from product mix; and
 — To continue to focus on training, 
marketing and sales support.
Key strategic initiatives
 — To develop and grow profitably 
the International market and invest 
prudently in new overseas market 
opportunities; and
 — To continue to develop and improve 
the cost efficiency of supply chains 
from India, China and Vietnam.
Public Sector and Commercial Domestic International
Objectives and targets
The Group’s objective is to maintain and 
develop its market-leading position in the core 
business and, at the same time, to focus on 
areas of particular growth opportunity. The 
Group continues to focus on innovation and 
new product development and to promote 
Marshalls’ integrated product offer.
Objectives and targets
The Group’s objective is to maintain and 
develop its market-leading position, to improve 
product mix and to drive more sales through 
quality installers. The Group remains committed 
to increasing the marketing support to the 
installer base and the Marshalls Register 
through increased training, marketing materials 
and sales support.
Objectives and targets
The Group’s objective is to develop the 
Marshalls brand internationally and to grow 
the business profitably. Marshalls continues 
to expand its geographical reach and to extend 
its global supply chains and routes to market. 
The aim is to extend the distribution of natural 
stone products into key focus areas, including 
North America and the Middle East.
Progress in 2014
Sales to the Public Sector and Commercial end 
market were up 20 per cent in 2014 and the 
Group’ s UK smaller businesses (including Street 
Furniture, Mineral Products and Stone Cladding) 
collectively delivered volume revenue growth 
of £9.3 million and related profit growth of 
£2.7 million. Stone Cladding has been a 
particular growth area in 2014 and the Group 
has been supplying stone for a prestigious 
office building in the City of London.
Progress in 2014
Sales to the Domestic end market 
were up 9 per cent in 2014. Installer 
order books at the end of February 2015 
were at 9.0 weeks (2014: 9.3 weeks). 
The Marshalls Register of approved 
domestic installers is unique and has 
grown to a total of 1,800 teams. The 
focus is to ensure a consistently high 
standard of quality and good 
geographical coverage.
Progress in 2014
International revenue has grown by 
27 per cent in 2014, with encouraging 
levels of activity in Belgium despite the 
continuing subdued market background 
in mainland Europe. During the year focus 
has been directed to ensure that the Group’s 
International operations are better aligned 
with market opportunities. This has resulted 
in the cessation of manufacturing at the 
Arendonk site in Belgium.
16
Key Performance Indicators 
page 16
18
Risk Management and 
Principal Risks page 18
4 Chairman's Statement page 4
8 Business Model page 8 Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
16
Key Performance Indicators
Revenue
£m
£358.5m+16.6%
12
300.9
10
300.5
11
325.1
13
307.4
14
358.5
Group revenue has increased by 16.6 per cent in 2014 which is 
significantly ahead of the historic target of 7 per cent. International 
revenue has grown by 27.3 per cent in 2014 to £21.0 million and has 
increased to 5.9 per cent of total Group sales.
The Group's KPIs monitor progress towards the achievement of its 
objectives. All of the Group's strategic KPIs have improved significantly 
during 2014.
Operating profit
£m
£25.3m+57.3%
12
12.9
10
11.0
11
15.0
13
16.1
14
25.3
Operating profit has increased by 57.3 per cent to £25.3 million in 
2014. The Group's strong operational gearing has driven an increase 
in reported operating margin from 5.2 per cent to 7.1 per cent, which 
represents an increase of 35 per cent. The increase of 1.9 per cent 
is ahead of the Group's targeted 1 per cent increase.
EPS
p
10.13p+46.0%
12
5.52
10
3.46
11
5.66
13
6.94
14
10.13
Group EPS has increased by 46.0 per cent in 2014 to 10.13 pence. 
The strategic target is for EPS to grow by 100 per cent over a 
3 year period.
ROCE
%
12.5%+54%
12
5.2
10
4.2
11
5.3
13
8.1
14
12.5
Group ROCE is 12.5 per cent for the year ended 31 December 2014, 
which represents an increase of 54 per cent during the year. 
The strategic target is for ROCE to be at least 15 per cent. ROCE 
is defined as EBITA/shareholders' funds plus net debt. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
17
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Net debt
£m
£30.5m
Dividend per share (recommended)
p
6.00p+14.3%
12
63.5
10
66.8
11
77.1
13
35.6
14
30.5
Net debt at 31 December 2014 is £30.5 million (2013: £35.6 million) 
which represents a reduction of 14 per cent.
The Group's strategic target is for the ratio of net debt to EBITDA to be 
2 times over the business cycle. At 31 December 2014 the ratio was 
comfortably within this at 0.8 times.
12
5.25
10
5.25
11
5.25
13
5.25
14
6.00
A progressive dividend policy remains a key objective, with the 
continuing strategy of maintaining up to 2 times cover over the 
business cycle. On an IFRS basis the dividends declared in the 
year ended 31 December 2014 are 5.50 pence. The final dividend 
recommended is 4.00 pence per share which, including the interim 
dividend of 2.00 pence, gives a total for the year of 6.00 pence. 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 dividend cover was 1.8 times 
on an IFRS basis and 1.7 times on a traditional basis.
Customer service
Customer service index 
97%
Target
95
Achieved
97
Customer service lies at the heart of the Marshalls brand. The Group's 
customer service index combines measures of product availability, 
on-time delivery performance and administrative and delivery 
accuracy. The Group's customer service index target is 95 per cent.
The combined customer service measure continued to be 
in excess of 97 per cent throughout 2014.
Marshalls remains committed to meeting the highest health 
and safety standards for all its employees and continually strives 
to improve the quality and safety of the working environment. 
The headline target for 2014 was a 10 per cent reduction in days 
lost resulting from workplace incidents against 2013. 
During 2014 there was a 29.6 per cent reduction in days lost 
from workplace incidents.
Health and safety
Reduction in working days lost
30%
Target
10
Achieved
30 Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
18
Risk Management and Principal Risks
Nature of risk Potential impact Mitigating factors Change
Macro-economic and political
The Group is dependent on 
the level of activity in its UK and 
International end markets. 
Accordingly, it is susceptible to 
economic downturn and the 
impact of Government policy.
The lower activity levels could 
reduce sales and production 
volumes and therefore could have 
an adverse effect on the Group's 
financial results.
The Group closely monitors trends 
and lead indicators, invests in market 
research and is an active member 
of the CPA. 
The Group benefits from the diversity 
of its business and end markets. 
The Group focuses on sales 
opportunities and strategic growth 
initiatives, together with quality, service 
and its supply chain.
Economic risk has reduced as 
economic and sector outlook and 
growth rates have improved. 
Government expenditure 
is now likely to be near the 
cyclical low and there is now 
upside potential in certain 
focus areas, e.g. rail. 
The economic outlook for 
the Eurozone continues 
to be difficult. 
Framework for managing risk.
Process
There is a formal ongoing process to identify, assess and analyse risks 
and those of a more material nature are included in the Group Risk 
Register. The Group Risk Register is reviewed and updated at least 
every 6 months and the overall process is the subject of regular 
review. Risks are recorded with a full analysis and risk owners are 
nominated who have authority and responsibility for assessing and 
managing the risk. All risks are analysed for impact and probability 
to determine exposure and impact to the business and the 
determination of a “gross risk score” enables risk exposure to be 
prioritised. External risks include the weather, political and economic 
conditions, the effect of legislation or other regulatory actions, the 
actions of competitors, foreign exchange, raw material prices and 
pension funding. Internal risks include investment in new products, 
new business strategies and acquisitions.
The Group seeks to mitigate exposure to all forms of strategic, 
financial and operational risk both external and internal. The 
effectiveness of key mitigating controls is continually monitored 
and such controls are subjected to internal audit and periodic testing 
in order to provide independent verification where this is deemed 
appropriate. The effectiveness and impact of key controls are evaluated 
and this is used to determine a “net risk score” for each risk. The process 
is used to develop action plans that are used to manage, or respond 
to, the risks and these are monitored and reviewed on a regular basis 
by the Group’s Audit Committee.
Understanding movements in business risk: 
 
Increase  No change  Decrease
The Board
 — The Board determines the Group’s approach to risk, its policies and the 
procedures that are put in place to mitigate exposure to risk.
Executive Directors
 — Responsible for the effective 
maintenance of the Group’s 
Risk Register;
 — Oversee the management 
of risk;
 — Monitor risk mitigation and 
controls; and
 — Monitor the effective 
implementation of 
action plans.
Internal Audit
 — Independent review of 
effectiveness of internal 
control procedures;
 — Report on effectiveness of 
management actions; and
 — Provide assurance to the 
Audit Committee.
Operational Managers
 — Responsible for identification of operational and strategic risks;
 — Responsible for ownership and control of specific risks; and
 — Responsible for establishing and managing the implementation 
of appropriate action plans.
 The Audit Committee
 — Has delegated responsibility from the Board to oversee 
risk management and internal controls;
 — Reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control procedures;
 — Monitors the effectiveness of the internal audit function 
and the independence of the external audit. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
19
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Nature of risk Potential impact Mitigating factors Change
Weather
The Group is exposed to the 
impact of prolonged periods 
of bad weather.
The lower activity levels could 
reduce sales and production 
volumes and therefore could have 
an adverse effect on the Group's 
financial results.
The Group has a continuing focus on 
new product development including 
landscape water management.
The Group is developing its internal 
flooring offer and developing its 
International strategy in order to 
diversify its activities.
Weather conditions are totally 
beyond the Group’s control. 
2014 has been a relatively 
benign weather year.
Customers
The UK business has a number 
of key customers, in particular 
the national merchants. This 
is partly as a result of the 
consolidated nature of 
this market.
The loss of a significant customer 
may give rise to a significant 
adverse effect on the Group's 
financial results.
The Group focuses on brand and new 
product development, quality and 
customer service improvement.
The Group maintains a national network 
of manufacturing and distribution sites.
The Group undertakes ongoing reviews 
of trading policies and relationships and 
maintains constant communication with 
customers.
The risk continues and is 
largely a consequence of the 
way the market is structured.
Competitor activity
The Group has a number 
of existing competitors 
who compete on range, price, 
quality and service. 
Potential new low cost 
competitors may be attracted 
into the market through 
increased demand for imported 
natural stone products.
The increased competition 
could reduce volumes and margins 
on manufactured and traded 
products.
The Group has unique selling points 
that differentiate the Marshalls 
branded offer. 
The Group focuses on quality, 
service, reliability and ethical 
standards that differentiate Marshalls 
from competitor products. 
The Group continues to have the 
lowest cost to market. 
The Group has a continuing focus 
on new product development. 
The improved market outlook 
has increased demand (relative 
to available supply) and this has 
lead to a reduction in such 
competitive pressure.
Continuing demand for 
imported natural stone 
potentially serves to 
maintain this risk.
Cost and availability of raw materials
The Group is susceptible to 
significant increases in the price 
of raw materials, utilities, fuel oil, 
haulage costs and 
vehicle availability.
As demand increases, the Group 
is potentially more exposed to 
the risk of temporary raw 
material shortages. 
The increased costs could reduce 
margins and may be further 
impacted in the event of imbalances 
in the mix of regional activity.
The risk of market demand 
exceeding raw material supply could 
lead to inefficient production which 
could reduce margins. 
The Group benefits from the diversity 
of its business and end markets. 
The Group focuses on its supplier 
relationships, flexible contracts and 
the use of hedging instruments. 
The Group utilises sales pricing 
and purchasing policies designed 
to mitigate the risks. 
The Group has its own fleet 
of specialist delivery vehicles.
Cost inflation remains a 
risk as demand for raw 
materials increases.
The improved market outlook 
has increased demand 
(relative to available supply) 
and there is an increased risk 
of temporary shortages. Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
20
Risk Management and Principal Risks continued
Nature of risk Potential impact Mitigating factors Change
Pension
The defined benefit pension 
scheme may be impacted by 
volatility in financial markets and 
the longevity of members.
These risks could increase pension 
scheme liabilities or reduce assets, 
putting pressure on accounting 
notional interest and therefore 
downward pressure on PBT and EPS. 
This could also result in the need for 
additional cash contributions.
The defined benefit section of the 
Pension Scheme is closed to new 
members and future service accrual.
The Group uses liability driven 
investments to hedge interest rate and 
inflation risks. 
De-risking strategies continue to be 
pursued and risk management is a key 
control used by the Trustee.
Professional advisers are consulted to 
minimise risk.
The risks surrounding the 
continuing funding of the 
past service liability remain 
unchanged as many of these 
are driven by financial markets 
and factors outside the 
Group’s control.
Environmental
An environmental contamination 
event may lead to a prosecution 
and to reputational loss.
An incident could lead to disruption 
to production and to financial 
penalties as well as a potential 
negative impact on the Group's 
reputation.
The Group uses professional specialists 
covering carbon reduction, water 
management and biodiversity. 
The Group focuses on the 
implementation of ISO standards.
The Group has a formal Group 
sustainability strategy focusing 
on impact reduction.
The Group is unable to 
predict future changes 
in environmental laws or 
policies or the ultimate 
cost of compliance with 
such laws or policies.
Corporate, legal and regulatory
The Group may be adversely 
affected by an unexpected 
reputational event, for example, 
it its ethical supply chain.
An incident could lead to a 
disruption to the supply of products 
for customers and to increased 
costs as well as a potential negative 
impact on the Group's reputation.
The Group employs compliance 
procedures, policies and independent 
audit processes which seek to ensure 
that local, national and international 
regulatory and compliance procedures 
are fully complied with. 
The extension of the Group’s 
activities into new international 
markets causes this risk to 
continue, notwithstanding 
the additional compliance 
procedures within the 
supply chain. 
Access to funding
The Group continues to require 
debt funding in order to meet its 
trading obligations and to grow 
the business.
Insufficient access to funding could 
limit the Group’s ability to achieve 
the desired levels of growth. 
The Group has significant committed 
facilities in place with a good spread 
of medium term maturities and 
significant headroom. 
The Group’ s policy continues to be to 
arrange funding ahead of requirements 
and to maintain sufficient undrawn 
committed bank facilities.
The improved economic 
outlook and the Group’s 
reduced gearing has served 
to reduce this risk. There is 
also improved liquidity and 
increased competition within 
the banking sector.
IT infrastructure
Disruption to the IT environment 
could affect the Group's ability to 
conduct its ongoing operations.
Ineffective procedures could lead to 
an adverse effect on the Group's 
financial results. 
All IT system development projects are 
actively and carefully planned with 
defined governance and 
control procedures. 
Regular independent risk and project 
management audits are undertaken.
The Group ensures that industry 
standards are adopted and disaster 
recovery plans and procedures exist and 
are regularly tested.
The continued investment in 
and maintenance of IT systems 
across the Group gives rise to 
good control of this risk. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
21
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
CEO Martyn Coffey presenting Overgate 
Hospice with a cheque for £34,000 
Overview
Corporate responsibility, awareness and mitigation of adverse impact 
on the environment, and positive engagement with our community 
and employees have long been core values of Marshalls. We aim to 
align our business values, purpose and strategy with the social, economic 
and environmental needs of our stakeholders, embedding responsible 
and ethical business policies and practices in everything we do.
Our commitment to these values is led by the Board and Jack Clarke 
is the Director with primary responsibility for reporting to the Board 
on environmental, social and sustainability matters.
More information on our policies in relation to the environment and 
our impact on it can be found in the Group's Sustainability website.
Employees
Our success depends on our people. In 2014, Marshalls launched its 
shared values of leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability. These 
values underpin the organisation and are important in the continued 
success of the business, giving guidance on best business practice 
and setting the standards for employees throughout the Group.
Equality and diversity
In our recruitment and selection processes we recognise the importance 
of diversity within our workforce. We are committed to promoting and 
maintaining a working environment based on mutual respect, where 
individual talent is recognised and valued and to providing training 
designed to raise levels of awareness and sensitivity to matters of equality 
and dignity at work. We have fair and merit-based employment policies 
and we adhere to relevant legislation, including measures for the 
effective prevention of discrimination against individuals with protected 
characteristics under the 2010 Equality Act.
We welcome, and give full and fair consideration to, applications from 
individuals with recognised disabilities and ensure they have equal 
opportunity for employment and career development in our 
business. Wherever reasonably practicable, we offer training and 
make adjustments to ensure employees with a disability are not 
disadvantaged in the workplace.
Our workforce comprised 2,146 employees as at 31 December 2014 
with the following gender balance:
Male Female
Total Workforce 84% 16%
Senior Managers 85% 15%
Directors 100% 0%
We believe that the high proportion of male employees is due to the 
sector in which we operate (the manufacture of construction materials) 
in which there have been traditionally fewer female applicants for jobs. In 
striving for a better workplace for all, we expect to make a positive impact 
towards improving gender balance. Our approach to diversity at Board 
level is explained in the Corporate Governance Report.
Employee engagement
There is a dedicated resource within the Human Resources team focusing 
specifically on our engagement activities, through interaction with local 
management teams and employee focus groups. We communicate the 
Group’s financial results, performance and overall direction by means of 
our internal intranet, monthly newsletter, site notice boards and face to 
face briefings between senior management and various employee 
groups. Through our employee "Options" platform, we offer a range of 
employee-focused benefits, which are regularly reviewed and updated 
and periodically offer access to employee benefits and services, such as 
Childcare Vouchers and "Cycle to Work" schemes.
In 2014, the Group participated for the fourth successive year in the Best 
Companies Workplace Engagement Survey. Participation increased by 
5 per cent to almost 75 per cent of all employees and the results showed 
continued progress against previous workplace engagement targets, 
resulting in a “One to Watch” accreditation from Best Companies. 
Corporate Responsibility
Sustainability website 
www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
22
Employees continued
Employee engagement continued
We operate a structured, consultative and collaborative interaction with 
recognised trades unions, their members and with our broader colleague 
base. In 2013, a 3 year agreement covering pay and employment terms 
throughout the period 2013 – 2015 was successfully negotiated with 
elected representatives and full time officers, providing a high level of 
certainty of employment costs throughout 2015. Marshalls was also 
accredited in 2014 as a "Living Wage Employer" .
The continued development of progressive working practices across 
several of our larger manufacturing sites, in consultation with employees 
and employee representatives has facilitated significantly greater 
manufacturing flexibility in support of the Company’s growth agenda and 
increased levels of demand for product. The Group’s “Serious Concerns 
Policy” , which is displayed on the intranet and at all sites, provides a 
framework for employees to raise any matters of concern confidentially 
and securely and ensures that any matters raised are properly investigated.
The Group's all-employee Share Purchase Plan provides employees with 
the opportunity to purchase shares in the Company. More details are on 
page 65. The Company is also proposing to introduce an all-employee 
save-as-you-earn scheme, subject to shareholder approval at the 2015 
Annual General Meeting.
Training and development
The Development Review process has been further extended during 2014 
and provides all employees with the opportunity for one-to-one discussions 
with their manager, covering work objectives, personal performance and 
career development. This is supported by the use of enhanced on-line 
resources and tools, together with site-based "tool-box talks" .
A tailored team leader development programme commenced in 
2014 to develop around 100 first-line managers within operations to 
drive manufacturing excellence. The programme, which will continue 
into 2015, aims to improve management and leadership skills through 
professional qualifications and a range of internal workshops. 
In 2015, a dedicated resource within Marshalls’ Human Resources 
team will ensure appropriate focus on aligning our people 
development strategy with the requirements of the growth agenda 
and our business plans. 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Marshalls’ Energy and Climate Change Policy confirms the Group’s 
commitment to reducing the Energy and Carbon impact of its 
business. Our target is to reduce absolute CO
2
e emissions in line with 
UK Government targets (34 per cent by 2020 and 80 per cent by 2050 
from a 1990 baseline). Our progress indicates that reductions are in 
line with the 2020 and 2050 targets.
The Group complied with its legal obligation in the Government’s Carbon 
Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme (“CRC”) by submitting 
its Annual Report and surrender of carbon allowances for the period 
April 2013 to March 2014 within the time limit imposed by the legislation. 
The Group was certified to the Carbon Trust Standard up to December 
2014 and its aim is to recertify for a further 2 years. The Group's approach 
to the recently introduced Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ("ESOS") 
registration is to incorporate its energy management into its Integrated 
Management Systems through ISO 14001 and ISO 50001. The Group 
continues to report voluntarily to the “Carbon Disclosure Project” 
receiving a 98B rating for its 2014 report. This report includes a wider 
carbon management performance over time and also provides an 
insight for shareholders regarding the Group’s energy, carbon and 
climate change impact management programme.
Marshalls has a mandatory duty to report its annual Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions (“GHG”) under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic and Directors’ 
Reports) Regulations 2013 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008. Marshalls uses the 
GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised 
edition) and the latest "DEFRA " published CO 2 e conversion factors to 
measure its GHG emissions.
Charnwood Paving at  
Canary Wharf, London
Corporate Responsibility continued
Climate Change Policy 
www.marshalls.co.uk/ccp
Carbon Disclosure Project 
www.cdp.net Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
23
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
A number of factors have contributed to the Group's energy 
performance during the year including significant increases in 
outputs from continuing operations, business churn, particularly 
in the aggregates business, weather and management systems.
The Group reports that it is responsible for the GHG emissions of Marshalls 
NV . The CO
2
 emission from Marshalls NV activities in 2014 (absolute) was 
961 tonnes and (intensity) 5.73 kg per tonne of production. 
Marshalls publishes its environmental KPI performance for the financial 
year in a separate document, the Marshalls’ Environmental KPI 2015 
Report. This covers our energy performance in more detail, together with 
Marshalls is committed to 
reducing the energy and 
carbon impact of the business.
The Group continues to report voluntarily to the 
"Carbon Disclosure Project", receiving a 98B rating 
for its 2014 report.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions
43,518
45,770 45,329
40,012
36,166
16,212
20,495
18,703
14,015
16,769
10,000
0
30,000
20,000
50,000
40,000
70,000
60,000
 Scope 1 Scope 2
Tonnes CO
2
e
12 10 11 13 14 10
Relative CO
2
e per tonne production scopes 1 and 2
(kgs CO
2
e per tonne)
12
11.73
10
15.88
11
11.42
13
12.12
14
11.52
2.00
10
0.00
6.00
4.00
12.00
10.00
8.00
18.00
16.00
14.00
kgs CO
2
e per tonne production output
reporting of our environmental governance, policies, management and 
key environmental impact areas such as waste, water and packaging. 
The Environmental KPI 2015 Report also includes details of our work with 
internationally recognised expert bodies such as the Carbon Trust, the 
Wildlife Trust and the Woodland Trust.
This section of the Annual Report has been audited by a qualified 
verifier on behalf of the British Standards Institution ("BSI"). On the basis of 
the work undertaken, this carbon statement is considered to be a fair 
reflection of the Group’s performance during the financial year 2014 and 
contains no misleading information.
The chart below illustrates the Group's CO
2
e intensity emissions as a 
proportion of production output, including transport activities 
between 2010 and 2014.
The chart below illustrates the Group's UK absolute CO
2
e emissions 
in tonnes, including transport activities between 2010 and 2014.
For more information see 
www.marshalls.co.uk/EnvKPI2015 Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
24
Corporate Responsibility continued
Health and safety
Marshalls remains committed to meeting the highest safety standards 
for all its employees, to reinforce and develop its safety processes, and 
to develop a competent workforce with a view to achieving long term 
improvement gains, and this remains a key priority for the business. 
Achievement of annual health and safety improvement targets is 
directly linked to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and 
senior management, as explained in the Remuneration Report. 
Our Safety, Health and Incident Prevention ("SHIP") teams, consisting of 
employee representatives and managers, are the cornerstone of the safety 
management system at site level, and meet regularly to support and 
develop our safety programme and objectives. The Group’s operating sites 
have been progressively implementing Integrated Management 
Registration systems accredited by the BSI incorporating accreditation 
to OHSAS (Occupational Health and Safety Accreditation Standard) 
18001:2007. At the end of 2014 all but 1 operational site within the 
Group held a BS OHSAS (18001:2007) registration, and the single 
remaining site is scheduled for registration in 2015. 
The headline target for 2014 was a 10 per cent reduction in days 
lost resulting from workplace incidents against 2013. The actual 
reductions achieved were:
 — 29.6 per cent reduction in days lost resulting from 
workplace incidents;
 — 9.9 per cent reduction in all incident frequency rate;
 — 41 per cent reduction in lost time incidents ("LTIs") recorded; and
 — 8.3 per cent reduction in incidents reportable to the HSE under 
the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases Dangerous Occurrence 
Regulations ("RIDDOR").
The primary target for 2015 will again be a 10 per cent reduction year 
on year in days lost resulting from workplace accidents. The table 
below shows the KPIs used by the Group to monitor performance, 
and progress against those KPIs over the last 5 years.
Incident frequency and severity rates  
(per 100,000 hrs worked)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
All incidents 9.49 8.32 6.95 6.56 5.91
All lost time incidents 1.60 1.55 1.40 1.22 0.72
All RIDDORs 0.94 0.81 0.61 0.36 0.33
All days lost 14.76 20.44 13.45 11.46 8.07
Average headcount 2,391 2,456 2,252 2,055 2,132
Brentford Marketplace Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
25
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Trading summary
Revenue
Continuing revenue for the year ended 31 December 2014 was 
£358.5 million (2013: £307.4 million) which represented an increase 
of 16.6 per cent. Revenue for the six months to 31 December 2014 
was up 18.3 per cent compared with the second half of 2013.
An analysis of revenue by end market is summarised in the 
table below:
2014 2013 change
Analysis of sales by end market £m £m %
UK Domestic 108.0 99.1 9.0
Public Sector and Commercial 229.5 191.8 19.6
International 21.0 16.5 27.3
358.5 307.4 16.6
% % 
UK Domestic 30.0 32.2
Public Sector and Commercial 64.1 62.4
International 5.9 5.4 
Public Sector and Commercial
In the Public Sector and Commercial end market, revenue increased 
by 20 per cent on a continuing basis compared with 2013. Sales in 
the Public Sector and Commercial end market now represent 
approximately 64 per cent of Group sales.
Commercial order intake has been encouraging within the Group. 
In the Public Sector and Commercial end market Marshalls’ strategy 
is to build on its position as a market-leading landscape products 
specialist. The Group has experienced technical and sales teams who 
continue to focus on markets where future demand is greatest across 
a full range of integrated products and sustainable solutions to 
customers, architects and contractors. Commercial work from rail, 
water management and new house building continues to increase 
and the Group is outperforming the market in these areas. The rail 
sector includes Crossrail, which is the largest construction project 
in Europe. 
UK Domestic
In the UK Domestic end market, revenue increased by 9 per cent. 
Sales to the UK Domestic end market now represent approximately 
30 per cent of Group sales.
Installer order books at the end of February 2015 were 9.0 weeks 
(February 2014: 9.3 weeks), compared with 11.9 weeks at the end 
of October 2014. The figure has remained at historically high levels 
throughout 2014 and the Group continues to receive good feedback 
from its customers and installers for the consistency and quality 
of service. The GfK’s Consumer Confidence index has improved 
significantly in the last 18 months – although has stabilised at a 
roughly neutral position for the last 6 months. 
During 2014 the Group has continued to focus on innovation in order 
to develop areas of particular sales opportunity and to strengthen 
further the Marshalls’ brand. In the UK Domestic end market the 
Group’s strategy continues to be to drive more sales through quality 
installers. The Marshalls Register of approved domestic installers is 
unique and has grown to over 1,800 teams. The objective is to 
continually develop the Marshalls brand, to improve the product mix, 
Revenue variance analysis 2013/2014
10.4
4.5
2013 
Revenue
Landscape 
Products
Other UK 
Smaller 
Businesses
International 2014 
Revenue
250
350
300
£m
307.4
36.2
358.5
Financial Review
Jack Clarke
Finance Director
Strategic Report Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
26
Financial Review continued
The Group has strengthened 
its market position and 
trading margins are continuing 
to improve.
Trading summary continued
UK Domestic continued
to ensure a consistently high standard of quality and good 
geographical coverage. The Group remains committed to increasing 
the marketing support to the installer base through increased 
training, marketing materials and sales support. 
International
Sales to International markets increased by £4.5 million, or 27.3 per cent, 
to £21.0 million. Sales from our operations in Belgium increased by 
30 per cent, in local currency, in the year ended 31 December 2014. 
Set against the continuing difficult trading conditions in western 
Europe this represents a good performance and further progress 
has been made in developing the International business which 
now represents almost 6 per cent of Group sales. 
Despite the Group's increased revenue the International business 
is not yet profitable as contribution from this revenue growth has 
been offset by revenue investment in the operational infrastructure 
which will be necessary to support further expansion for the long 
term. Focus has been directed to ensure that International operations 
are better aligned with market opportunities. This resulted in a charge 
of £2 million in the second half of 2014 in relation to the restructuring 
of Marshalls NV. 
The Belgian business provides a physical stock location in mainland 
Europe from which to supply the Group’s specialist product portfolio. 
Marshalls continues to expand its geographical reach and to extend 
its International supply chains and routes to market. Sales through 
the Group’s new US subsidiary have been very encouraging and 
the objective will be to grow further the distribution of natural 
stone products into the North American market.
Operating profit
2014 2013 change
Continuing operations £m £m %
EBITDA 38.5 30.2 27
Depreciation / amortisation (13.2) (14.1) (7)
Operating profit 25.3 16.1 57
Operating profit from continuing operations was £25.3 million 
(2013: £16.1 million). This is after charging £2 million in relation to the 
restructuring of Marshalls NV. EBITDA from continuing operations was 
£38.5 million (2013: £30.2 million). 
First half / second half phasing
The following table summarises the relative performance of the 
second half of 2014 compared with that for the six months ended 
30 June 2014. The table illustrates the continued improvement in 
the second half of 2014 with revenue increasing by 18.3 per cent 
and operating profit increasing by 53.1 per cent compared with the 
comparable six month period in 2013. 
First half/
second half 2014 2013 change 2014 2013
phasing £m £m % % %
Revenue
HY1 180.0 156.5 15.0% 50% 51%
HY2 178.5 150.9 18.3% 50% 49%
Total 358.5 307.4 16.6% 
Operating profit
HY1 15.6 9.8 60.0% 61% 61%
HY2 9.7 6.3 53.1% 39% 39%
Total 25.3 16.1 57.3%  Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
27
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Revenue
£358.5m +16.6%
(2013: £307 .4m) 
Operating profit
£25.3m +57.3%
(2013: £16.1m)
Profit margins
The Group has strengthened its market position and trading margins 
are continuing to improve. 
Operating Margin 
Revenue profit Impact
Margin analysis £m £m %
2013 - reported 307.4 16.1 5.2%
Price increases to recover costs (UK) 10.2 2.6 0.5%
Volume and mix  
– Landscape Products 27.1 6.6 1.5%
Volume and mix  
– other UK smaller businesses 9.3 2.7 0.7%
Organic expansion of International 4.5 (0.7) (0.3%)
2014 – underlying 358.5 27.3 7.6%
Restructuring costs – Belgium – (2.0) (0.5%)
2014 – reported 358.5 25.3 7.1%
Underlying operating profit (before restructuring costs) was £27.3 million 
with a resulting operating margin of 7.6 per cent (2013: 5.2 per cent). 
Operating profit was £25.3 million with a resulting operating margin of 
7.1 per cent (2013: 5.2 per cent). In the UK, sales price increases realised 
£10.2 million in additional revenue, which exceeded the impact of cost 
inflation in the year by £2.6 million. Operating margin improved by 36.5 
per cent which reflects improved operational gearing as a result of 
volume growth which has been ahead of CP A forecasts.
In the Public Sector and Commercial end market sales prices were up 
4 per cent and volume and mix were up approximately 16 per cent.
In the UK Domestic end market sales prices were up 3 per cent and 
volume and mix were up approximately 6 per cent.
The Group continues to focus on the development of the Marshalls 
brand. Particular emphasis is being directed towards value added 
products and on improving product availability, in order to generate 
further improvement in operating margins. The Group’s Landscape 
Products business is now a reportable segment servicing the UK 
Public Sector and Commercial and UK Domestic end markets. 
The revenue and operating profit in the Landscape Products 
business from volume growth and mix increased by £27.1 million 
and £6.6 million respectively on a reported basis. The businesses 
that are not reported in the Landscape Products segment include 
the Group’s International operations and also the smaller UK 
businesses which include Street Furniture, Mineral Products 
and Stone Cladding. There has been a significant performance 
improvement in these smaller UK businesses during 2014 and they 
have collectively delivered volume growth in revenue of £9.3 million 
and related profit growth of £2.7 million. Stone Cladding is a particular 
growth area and Marshalls has been supplying stone for a prestigious 
office building in the City of London.
Operational developments
The Group has excellent relationships with its customers. This is 
delivering additional sales and good progress is being made with 
the many growth initiatives.
The Group’s industry-leading standards remained high in 2014 giving a 
combined customer service measure of 97 per cent. Marshalls continues 
to receive good feedback from its customers and installers for the 
consistency and quality of its products and service. 
Capital investment in property, plant and equipment in 2014 totalled 
£12.0 million (2013: £6.1 million). This compares with depreciation of 
£12.0 million (2013: £13.5 million). The Group will continue to invest 
selectively in innovation to deliver new products and improvement 
projects that reinforce its market-leading position. These strengths 
support the Group’s medium term growth ambitions and, in addition 
to the existing routes to market, a number of other markets have 
been identified that are opening up new opportunities for both 
existing and new products. Research and development expenditure 
in the year ended 31 December 2014 amounted to £2.7 million 
(2013: £2.8 million).
EBITDA
£38.5m +27.4%
(2013: £30.2m) Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
28
Financial Review continued
Trading summary continued
Earnings per share
Basic EPS from continuing operations was 10.13 pence (2013: 6.94 pence), 
an increase of 46 per cent. EPS from total operations was 10.13 pence 
(2013: 7.20 pence).
Net financial expenses 
Net finance costs were £2.9 million (2013: £3.1 million) and interest 
was covered 8.8 times (2013: 5.3 times). External charges were £2.8 
million and, in addition, there was an IAS 19 notional interest debit 
of £0.1 million (2013: £0.6 million credit) in relation to the Group’s 
Pension Scheme. The IAS 19 notional interest comprises interest on 
obligations under the defined benefit section of the Marshalls plc 
Pension Scheme net of the expected return on Scheme assets. 
Taxation
The effective tax rate on continuing operations was 18.7 per cent 
(2013: 0.5 per cent) and benefited from a further reduction in the rate 
of corporation tax and a credit arising on the finalisation of prior year 
tax computations. The effective tax rate in 2013 also benefited from 
a corporation tax rate reduction and a prior year credit. An additional 
deferred tax credit of £2.6 million arose in 2013 due to substantively 
enacted reductions in the rate of corporation tax to 20 per cent by 
April 2015. The Group has paid £4.0 million of corporation tax during 
the year. Deferred tax of £0.6 million in relation to the actuarial loss 
arising on the defined benefit Pension Scheme in the year has been 
taken to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Balance sheet
2014 2013
Group Balance Sheet £m £m
Fixed assets 192.6 198.1
Current assets 119.9 120.8
Current liabilities (68.3) (74.2)
Non‑ current liabilities (65.7) (65.0)
Sub‑ total 178.5 179.7
Employee benefits 3.4 (4.3)
Net assets 181.9 175.4
Net debt (30.5) (35.6)
Net debt: EBITDA 0.8 1.2
Net assets at 31 December 2014 were £181.9 million (2013: £175.4 million). 
The Group continues to keep a tight control of receivables and debtor 
days remain industry leading due to continued close control of credit 
management procedures. The Group maintains credit insurance which 
provides excellent intelligence to minimise the number and value 
of bad debts and ultimately provides compensation if bad debts are 
incurred. The Group's inventory reduction programme has led to a 
reduction of approximately £3.5 million despite significantly increased 
levels of activity. 
Risk management has been a key focus for the Group’s Pension 
Scheme over recent years and the actions taken by the Group 
and the Pension Trustee have reduced actuarial volatility and risk. 
In accordance with the Scheme specific funding and recovery plan, 
the Group made cash contributions of £4.6 million into the Scheme 
in the year ended 31 December 2014. The fair value of the Scheme 
assets at 31 December 2014 was £312.5 million (2013: £258.6 million) 
and the present value of the Scheme liabilities is £309.1 million 
(2013: £262.9 million). This has given rise to an accounting surplus 
of £3.4 million (2013: £4.3 million deficit) at the balance sheet date. 
These changes have resulted in an actuarial gain, 
Return on capital employed has 
improved significantly to 1 2.5 per cent 
(201 3: 8. 1 per cent). Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
29
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Profit before tax
£22.4m +72.2%
(2013: 13.0m) 
EPS
10.13p +46.0%
(2013: 6.94p)
net of deferred taxation, of £2.6 million (2013: £15.0 million loss) and 
this has been recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income. In the year ended 31 December 2014 the AA corporate bond 
rate reduced from 4.6 per cent to 3.6 per cent and the values have 
been determined by the Scheme Actuary using assumptions in line 
with current market levels.
Analysis of net debt
2014 2013
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 20.3 17.7
Bank loans < 12 months – (3.4)
Bank loans > 12 months (50.3) (49.7)
Finance leases (0.5) (0.2)
(30.5) (35.6)
At 31 December 2014 net debt was £30.5 million (2013: £35.6 million) 
resulting in gearing of 16.8 per cent (2013: 20.3 per cent). This reduction 
is due to the operating cash flow impact of improved trading together 
with a continuation of the close control of inventory and the effective 
management of working capital. Cash management continues to be 
a high priority. 
Borrowing facilities
The Group continues its policy of having significant committed 
facilities in place with a positive spread of medium term maturities. 
In July 2014, the Group renewed its short term working capital 
facilities with RBS. The Group’s committed facilities are all revolving 
credit facilities with interest charged at variable rate based on LIBOR.
 The total bank borrowing facilities at 31 December 2014 
amounted to £125.0 million (2013: £145.0 million) of which 
£74.7 million (2013: £92.0 million) remained unutilised. This was due 
to the Group's decision to reduce its uncommitted loan facilities by 
£10.0 million on 16 July 2014 and the refinancing on 21 August 2014 
of two existing committed loan facilities totalling in aggregate 
£50.0 million, with extended maturity dates to 2017 and 2018, 
at newly arranged levels totalling £40.0 million. An additional loan 
facility of £20.0 million reached maturity on 20 August 2014 and 
has been refinanced with an extended maturity date to 2019. 
In addition, the Group has a seasonal working capital facility of 
£20.0 million which is available between 1 February and 31 August 
each year. The Group has significant headroom in its facilities with 
year end debt at 31 December 2014 representing approximately 
21 per cent of the available facilities. 
Interest cover and net debt to EBITDA covenants in the facilities 
were met at the year end. The bank facilities are unsecured save for 
inter-company guarantees between the Group and its subsidiary 
undertakings in favour of the facility banks. 
The Group has a strong balance sheet with a good range of medium 
term bank facilities available to fund investment initiatives to generate 
growth as market conditions improve.
Cumulative
Facility facility
Expiry date £m £m
Committed facilities
Q3 2019 20 20
Q3 2018 20 40
Q3 2017 20 60
Q3 2016 25 85
Q3 2015 25 110
On-demand facilities
Available all year 15 125
Seasonal 
(February to August inclusive) 20 145
Net debt
£30.5m -14.3%
(2013: £35.6m) Strategic Report
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
30
The Group has a strong 
balance sheet which supports 
our investment initiatives to 
generate growth.
Financial Review continued
Trading summary continued
Cash generation
2014 2013
Group Cash Flow £m £m
Net cash from operating activities 
(before pension contributions) 33.7 32.7
Pension contributions (4.6) (5.6)
Net cash from operating activities 29.1 27.1
Net cash from investing activities (8.9) 11.1
Net cash from financing activities (15.1) (10.3)
Movement in net debt in the period 5.1 27.9
Net debt at beginning of period (35.6) (63.5)
Net debt at end of period (30.5) (35.6)
The Group continues to be cash generative. In the year ended 
31 December 2014 net cash flow from operating activities was 
£29.1 million (2013: £27.1 million) after deducting £0.2 million 
(2013: £0.9 million) of one-off cash expenditure in relation to 
operational restructuring costs paid and pension contributions 
of £4.6 million (2013: £5.6 million). 
The Strategic Report section on pages 1 to 30 of this 
Annual Report has been reviewed and approved by the 
Board of Directors on 6 March 2015.
Martyn Coffey
Chief Executive
0
160
20
40
60
100
120
80
140
Dec 2014 Dec 2015*
Bank facilities
£m
 On demand: Seasonal (Feb to Aug)
 On demand: Overdrafts (all year)
 Committed
 Net debt
2014 2013
Analysis of cash utilisation £m £m
Free cash flow 29.1 27.1
Capital expenditure (12.0) (6.1)
Proceeds from sale of property assets 3.1 0.2
Net proceeds from disposal 
of discontinued operations – 17.0
Payments to acquire own shares (4.3) –
Cash returned to shareholders (10.8) (10.3)
Movement in net debt 5.1 27.9
Total expenditure on capital expenditure in the year was £12.0 million 
(2013: £6.1 million). The majority of this expenditure was invested in 
the replacement of existing assets, in business improvements and new 
process technology. Proceeds from the sale of targeted property assets 
contributed £3.1 million (2013: £0.2 million). Dividend payments in the 
year were £10.8 million (2013: £10.3 million). 
Jack Clarke
Finance Director
* December 2015 based on consensus information Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
31
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
31
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance
32 Board of Directors and Secretary
34 Corporate Governance Statement
41  Statement of Directors' Responsibilities
43 Remuneration Committee Report
46 Remuneration Report
51 Annual Remuneration Report
62 Audit Committee Report
65  Dir ec t ors’ Report – 
Other Regulatory Information
67 Independent Auditor’s Report
Drivesys Split Stone Basalt Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
32
Board of Directors and Secretary 
1. Andrew Allner 
R, N
Chairman
Term of office
Joined the Board in July 2003; appointed as Chairman 
in May 2010. Last re-elected in May 2014. Also chairs 
the Nomination Committee.
Length of service
1 1 years 6 months (3 years 6 months as Chairman)
Independent
Yes (on appointment as Chairman)
Skills and experience
Significant current listed company Board experience, 
as Chairman and as a Non-Executive Director: also 
previously Non-Executive Director of AZ Electronic 
Materials SA (until 2014) and CSR plc (until 2013). 
Previous executive roles include Group Finance Director 
of RHM plc, taking a lead role in its flotation in July 2005 
on the London Stock Exchange, and CEO of Enodis plc. 
Also held senior executive positions with Dalgety plc, 
Amersham International plc and Guinness plc. 
Chartered Accountant, former partner of Price 
Waterhouse. Graduate of the University of Oxford.
External appointments
Chairman of The Go-Ahead Group plc and Fox Marble 
Holdings plc, and Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee at Northgate plc.
2. Martyn Coffey
Chief Executive
Term of office
Joined the Company and appointed to the Board 
in September 2013.
Length of service
1 year 3 months
Independent
No
Skills and experience
Wide executive leadership experience: previously 
Divisional Chief Executive Officer of BDR Thermea Group 
BV, a leading manufacturer and distributor of domestic 
and industrial heating and hot water systems operating 
in 70 countries and with a turnover of €1.8 billion, formed 
in 2009 from the merger of Baxi and De Dietrich Remeha. 
Prior to the merger, he was Chief Executive of the private 
equity-owned Baxi Group. Also held the position of 
Managing Director of Pirelli Cables where he spent 
14 years in the UK, Australia and North America. 
Holds a BSc in Mathematics.
External appointments
Director of the Mineral Products Association and 
Non-Executive Director of Eurocell plc.
3. Jack Clarke
Finance Director
Term of office
Joined the Company and appointed to the Board 
on 1 October 2014.
Length of service
3 months
Independent
No
Skills and experience
Chartered Accountant. Joined Marshalls from AMEC plc, 
where he was Executive Vice President and Director of 
Change Management. He has extensive experience in 
managing international operations, having previously 
served as CFO of AMEC’s £850 million power and process 
division and its US$1.5 billion environment and 
infrastructure division. He has extensive M&A experience. 
Previous experience includes senior finance and 
operational management roles with Halliburton and 
Mobil Oil. Holds an MSc (Civil Engineering) and BA 
(Economics and Management).
External appointments
None
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Key A Member of the Audit Committee R Member of the Remuneration Committee N Member of the Nomination Committee Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
33
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
7. Cathy Baxandall
Group Company Secretary
Term of office
Appointed in July 2008.
Skills and experience
In addition to her role as Company Secretary, Cathy 
is General Counsel to the Marshalls group and has 
responsibility for compliance and the risk register. 
She has previous experience as Company Secretary 
and Group Counsel with Silentnight Group, Thistle 
Hotels plc and Jacuzzi (UK). Qualified in the City with 
Clifford Chance before becoming a partner in a 
national law firm, specialising in banking and 
corporate law. Graduate of the University of Oxford.
External appointments
Charity Trustee and Board member of Ilkley Literature 
Festival, the Open College of the Arts and Yorkshire 
Youth & Music.
4. Alan Coppin 
A, R, N
Senior Independent 
Non‑Executive Director 
Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
Term of office
Appointed in May 2010. Last re-elected in May 2014. 
Length of service
3 years 6 months 
Independent
Yes
Skills and experience
Significant cross-sector governance and management 
experience, including previous Non-Executive 
directorships at Berkeley Homes plc, Capital and 
Regional plc and Carillion plc. Previously Chairman of 
the Prince’s Foundation for the Built Environment. Alan 
is a Companion of the Chartered Management Institute. 
External appointments
Crown Representative in the Cabinet Office (Efficiency 
and Reform Group), Trustee and Chairman of the 
Campaign Board for the RAF Museums and Patron 
of the Windsor Leadership Trust. 
5. Mark Edwards 
A, R, N
Non‑ Executive Director 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Term of office
Appointed in May 2010. Last re-elected in May 2014. 
Length of service
3 years 6 months
Independent
Yes
Skills and experience
Current CEO of AIM Altitude, a leading supplier 
of cabin interiors on Boeing and Airbus aircraft. 
Chartered Accountant with a strong operating 
background gained in the USA, Europe and Asia. 
Formerly Chief Executive of the Baxi Group and Vice 
President of the Construction Products Association.
External appointments
Chief Executive of AIM Altitude group of companies 
and Chairman of Atlas Fine Wines.
6. Tim Pile 
A, R, N
Non‑ Executive Director
Term of office
Appointed in October 2010. Last re-elected in May 2014. 
Length of service
3 years 3 months
Independent
Yes
Skills and experience
Executive Chairman of Cogent Elliott, the leading 
independent marketing agency; extensive cross-sector 
leadership and business experience, particularly in 
marketing and financial services, formerly Chief Executive 
Officer of Sainsbury's Bank. Previous Non-Executive 
Director roles include Cancer Research UK.
External appointments
Non-Executive Director of The Royal Orthopaedic 
Hospital, President of the Greater Birmingham 
Chambers of Commerce, Director of the Library of 
Birmingham and Governor of Bromsgrove School. 
David Sarti
Chief Operating Officer 
(retired December 2014)
Term of office
Joined the Board in November 2004. Retired from the 
Board and as COO in December 2014.
Independent
No
Skills and experience
Chartered Director, wide business experience, 
formerly strategy consultant with Accenture.
External appointments
Until December 2014, Non-Executive Director of the 
British Pre-Cast Concrete Federation Limited and also 
Non-Executive Director of a private group of 
companies in the distribution and retail sector.
Ian Burrell
Finance Director 
(retired October 2014)
Term of office
Appointed in June 2001. Retired from the Board and as 
Finance Director in October 2014.
Independent
No
Skills and experience
Chartered Accountant, held a number of senior 
financial positions in industry, including that of Group 
Finance Director at Cornwell Parker plc, before joining 
the Company. He also chairs the board of the 
Company’s Pension Scheme Trustee. 
External appointments
Chair of the Board of Leeds Trinity University.  Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
34
Corporate Governance Statement
Chairman's introduction
Dear Shareholder
This Corporate Governance Statement, together with the Reports of 
the Audit and Remuneration Committees on pages 43 to 64, explains 
how Marshalls’ governance framework works and how we apply the 
principles of business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism 
in all our activities. As a Board, we recognise that we are accountable to 
shareholders for good corporate governance, and we seek to promote 
consistently high standards of governance throughout the Group 
which are recognised and understood by all.
Good governance involves good and effective leadership, robust 
systems and processes that are regularly tested, and a good 
understanding of risk and risk appetite. The Board seeks to add value 
through constructive dialogue and challenge, engagement with 
shareholders and other stakeholders, and with a strong focus on the 
strategic agenda. I have commented on our key strategic priorities in 
my Chairman's Statement and there is a summary of Group Strategy 
on pages 14 and 15 of the Strategic Report.
The Board recognises the benefit of diversity in its composition. 
We have refocused on this following the recent period of transition 
in the senior Executive management of the business, which I am 
pleased to report has been effectively and smoothly handled through 
our Board Nomination and Remuneration Committees. Given the 
importance we ascribe to Board development, our progress in this 
area is highlighted in my Chairman's Statement.
This Corporate Governance Statement, which is part of the Directors’ 
Report, has been prepared in accordance with the principles of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012 (the “Code”) 
which the Board fully supports. We consider that the Company has 
complied with the relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year 
in all material respects. We have also considered and applied the 
principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in 
September 2014 which the Board fully supports. I can also confirm that 
in the opinion of the Directors these Annual Financial Statements 
present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s 
position and prospects and provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business 
model and strategy. The respective responsibilities of the Directors and 
the Auditor in connection with the Financial Statements are explained 
in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities and the Auditor’s Report 
on pages 41 to 42 and 67 to 68 respectively.
Andrew Allner
Chairman
62
Audit Committee Report 
page 62
43
Remuneration 
Committee Report page 43
41
Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities page 41 Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
35
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
  Role of the Board
The Board currently comprises an independent Non-Executive 
Chairman, 3 Non-Executive Directors, and 2 Executive Directors 
(reducing from 3 upon David Sarti’s retirement) who are equally 
responsible for the proper stewardship and leadership of the 
Company. Their biographical details are on pages 32 and 33. 
There is a formal Schedule of Matters Reserved for decisions 
of the Board. This is reviewed annually and includes:
 — approving and monitoring progress of strategy, 
business plans and budgets;
 — approving any changes to capital, constitution 
or corporate structure;
 — approving the annual and half-yearly accounts, and approval 
and monitoring of the internal financial control system, risk 
management, health and safety and anti-bribery policies 
and procedures;
 — Board appointments and succession planning, and setting 
terms of reference for Board Committees;
 — approving transactions of significant value or 
major strategic importance; and
 — remuneration matters including major changes to pension 
schemes, and the introduction of share and incentive schemes, 
and the general framework of remuneration.
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees. The Audit Committee 
Report on pages 62 to 64 provides details of how the Board applies 
the Code in relation to membership, Terms of Reference, Committee 
proceedings, financial reporting, risk management and internal 
controls. The Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 61 gives details 
of Executive Directors’ remuneration and policy. The Nomination 
Committee's work is commented on in this report (page 39).
Other Board Committees are established periodically for particular 
purposes. For example, during the year, Board Committees were 
established to approve dividend payments and preliminary and 
half-yearly announcements.
Day-to-day management and the implementation of strategies 
agreed by the Board is delegated to the Executive Directors. The Group’s 
reporting structure below Board level is designed so that all decisions are 
made by the most appropriate people in a timely manner. Management 
teams report to members of the Executive Committee. This committee 
currently consists of 7 senior managers, including the two Executive 
Directors, and the Board receives regular updates from this Committee 
in relation to business issues and developments. These policies and 
procedures collectively enable the Board to make informed decisions 
on a range of key issues including strategy and risk management. 
The interaction between these bodies is illustrated in the chart 
to the left.
Executive 
Directors
Executive 
Committee
Board
Operational 
and functional 
management
Group/Corporate 
support
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Audit  
Committee
Interaction between Board and Management bodies
Chairman and CEO Terms of Reference 
www.marshalls.co.uk
Committee Terms of Reference 
www.marshalls.co.uk Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
36
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive 
and Non‑Executive Directors
The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive are held by separate 
individuals with a clear division of responsibilities and written Terms 
of Reference. The Chairman leads the Board and sets its agenda, 
ensuring that all Directors, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, 
are able to make an effective contribution, and ensures that there 
is a constructive relationship between the Executive and the 
Non-Executive Directors. The Chief Executive has responsibility 
for all operational matters which include the implementation 
of strategy and policies approved by the Board. 
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is responsible for 
providing a sounding board for the Chairman and is an intermediary 
for other Non-Executive Directors. He is also available to shareholders 
if they have concerns which are not resolved through the normal 
channels of contact. 
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors were independent 
on appointment, and the Board considers each of the Non-Executive 
Directors to be independent in character and judgement in accordance 
with the principles of the Code. 
At least once a year the Chairman holds a meeting with the 
Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being 
present. The Non-Executive Directors also meet annually without the 
Chairman being present to appraise the Chairman’s performance. 
Directors are able to ensure that any concerns they raise about the 
running of the Company or a proposed action is recorded in the 
Board minutes. If a Non-Executive Director did have any such 
concerns on resignation the Chairman would invite that Director 
to provide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
Conflicts of interest
The Board has adopted procedures for the authorisation of existing 
situations and for considering (and authorising where appropriate) 
new situations which may give rise to a conflict of interest. These 
are recorded in a Conflicts Register, reviewed by the Nomination 
Committee at least annually. The Nomination Committee has 
delegated authority to make recommendations on any situation 
notified to the Board in future. Currently, the only situations 
authorised are the holding by Directors of directorships or similar 
offices with companies or organisations not connected with the 
Company where the Board has not identified any actual conflict 
of interest. The Board has reviewed the procedures and is satisfied 
that they are operating effectively.
Board composition, commitment 
and election of Directors
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board 
appointments and makes recommendations to the Board. We believe 
our Board is of sufficient size and has an appropriate balance of skills 
and experience to meet the needs of the business. Individual director 
evaluations, succession planning and the work of the Nomination 
Committee are commented on further in the Nomination Committee 
section of this report.
On appointment, Board members, in particular the Chairman and the 
Non-Executive Directors, disclose their other commitments, and agree 
to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their duties 
effectively and ensure that these other commitments do not affect 
their contribution. The current Board commitments of the Chairman 
and of the remaining members of the Board are shown on pages 32 
and 33. Any conflicts of interest are dealt with in accordance with the 
Board conflicts procedures.
The Company’s Articles of Association contain powers of removal, 
appointment, election and re-election of Directors and provide that at 
least one-third of the Board must retire at each Annual General Meeting 
and each Director must retire by rotation every three years. In practice, 
the Company requires all Directors to stand for re-election at each 
Annual General Meeting. Martyn Coffey was elected at the Company’s 
2014 Annual General Meeting following his appointment in 2013, and 
both he and Jack Clarke, who joined the Board in October 2014, will 
stand for re-election and election respectively at the Annual General 
Meeting in May 2015. All Non-Executive Directors will also stand for 
re-election or election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting. David Sarti 
and Ian Burrell both retired from the Board during 2014. The terms of 
appointment of the current Directors are reported on page 49 and the 
Directors’ biographical details on pages 32 and 33 show their length 
of service on the Board.
Board induction, development and support
New Directors receive a full, formal, and tailored induction on joining 
the Board. There is an induction pack for new Directors incorporating 
the Company’s constitutional and governance documents, Group 
policies and other key information. Directors receive training on the 
use of our electronic board packs, and other tailored training may be 
arranged to meet individual needs, for example to refresh knowledge 
of the Listing Rules and regulatory compliance. Typically, a new Director 
will meet the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors in one-on-one 
sessions: he or she will have meetings with key management, briefings 
with external advisers and shareholders, and a programme of site visits 
will be arranged at which the Director meets site-based staff to gain 
a full understanding of the business. In the case of Martyn Coffey 
and Jack Clarke, meetings were also arranged to reflect the Group’s 
key external relationships with customers, suppliers and other 
service providers.
All Directors receive training as part of the annual Board programme, 
which seeks to incorporate a range of in-depth topics of particular 
relevance to the business. Directors are also expected to attend external 
courses and seminars as appropriate to maintain and develop their 
Board competencies. During 2014, on-site training relating to Health 
and Safety was provided, and Directors were also given presentations in 
relation to market trends, international growth and our specialist 
businesses. Training needs are identified through the Board evaluation 
process and through individual reviews between the Directors and the 
Chairman. Non-Executive Directors would be available to meet major 
shareholders if a meeting were requested. Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
37
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary and are entitled to rely on the impartial and independent 
nature of that advice and those services. The Company Secretary is 
responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with 
and, through the Chairman, advises the Board on corporate 
governance matters. Both the appointment and removal of the 
Company Secretary are a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Board has an approved procedure for all Directors to take 
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense. Board 
Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their 
duties, including the option to appoint external advisers when they 
deem it appropriate.
Indemnities and insurance
The Company maintains Directors’ and Officers’ Liability insurance 
cover to cover legal proceedings against its Directors and Officers 
acting in that capacity. The Group has also granted indemnities to its 
Directors to the extent permitted by law (which are qualifying third 
party indemnities within the meaning of Section 236 of the 
Companies Act 2006), and these remained in force during the year in 
relation to certain losses and liabilities that the Directors may incur to 
third parties in the course of action as Directors or employees of the 
Company, any subsidiary or associated company, or as a director of 
the pension scheme Trustee. Neither the liability insurance nor the 
indemnities provide cover in the event of proven fraudulent or 
dishonest activity.
Board evaluation
The Company carries out a full evaluation of Board performance 
and that of its 3 principal Committees annually. The 2014 evaluation 
was conducted in a similar way to previous years, using a detailed 
questionnaire, and one-to–one confidential discussions between 
each of the Directors and the Company Secretary. The questionnaire, 
which was benchmarked against external examples before the 2014 
evaluation, referenced current guidance on Board effectiveness 
published by the Financial Reporting Council and other external 
investor bodies, such as the ABI, the Investment Association and NAPF , 
as well as the Code. It was designed to stimulate thought and 
discussion rather than to deliver scores, and included questions about 
the effectiveness of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, and the 
performance of the Chairman. The Senior Independent Director 
separately reviewed the Chairman’s performance with other Non-
Executive Directors. The results of the evaluation were reviewed by the 
Chairman and the Company Secretary and discussed by the Board. 
The Board also reviewed the priorities identified for 2014 from the 
previous 2013 evaluation process. These included Board diversity and 
succession planning, auditor rotation, improvements to risk reporting 
and analysis, the form and content of Board reports and changes to 
the incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior 
management. Good progress against all of these priorities was made 
during the year. Further commentary on activity in the areas of 
diversity and succession, auditor rotation and incentive scheme 
changes can be found in the Nomination Committee section of this 
report and in the Audit and Remuneration Committee reports.
All Directors receive training as part of 
the annual Board programme, which 
seeks to incorporate a range of in‑depth 
topics of particular relevance to the 
business. Directors are also expected 
to attend external courses and seminars 
as appropriate to maintain and develop 
their Board competencies. Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
38
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Board evaluation continued
The key themes emerging from the 2014 evaluation have 
been applied in developing specific Board objectives for 2015. 
They include:
 — allowing time for deeper debate on strategic issues and the 
long-term strategic objectives of the Group; reviewing KPIs to 
align more closely with strategic objectives, and increasing focus 
on dynamic risk reporting, recognising opportunities as well as 
downside risk and with particular focus on overseas risk;
 — identifying particular business areas for closer review, and 
increasing opportunities for Non-Executive Directors to meet 
senior management below Board level through the programme 
of site visits;
 — developing opportunities for contact between the 
Chairman and shareholders: the Board considers that current 
understanding and communication of shareholder views is 
good, but would like to ensure that dialogue continues to be 
open and transparent and that shareholder views are fully 
accounted for; and
 — appointing a female Director to the Board within the next 
12 months.
The Board believes that the current evaluation process works 
extremely well. All Directors take the opportunity to respond fully 
and frankly to the questionnaire, which is thorough and robust, with 
a genuine desire to enhance overall Board performance, and the 
process contains sufficient objectivity through the confidentiality 
of individual responses to ensure that challenge is acknowledged 
and acted upon. The Board considered whether to use an external 
facilitator for the 2014 evaluation, but concluded that the evaluation 
process using internal resource, led by the Company Secretary, 
continues to be very effective and has demonstrably helped to 
improve Board effectiveness since its inception. The Board will 
consider whether an externally assessed evaluation would be 
appropriate at the next review.
Board meetings
There were 7 regular Board meetings scheduled during 2014, 
4 meetings of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and 
1 Nomination Committee meeting. Additional meetings were held 
during the year for specific purposes, including strategy planning, 
succession planning, regulatory matters and training. Non-Executive 
Directors also made site visits.
Ian Burrell and David Sarti attended all scheduled meetings up to the 
date of their respective retirements from the Board, and Jack Clarke 
attended the 2 scheduled meetings following his appointment in 
October 2014. Alan Coppin was unable to attend the March 2014 
Board and Nomination Committee meetings due to ill health. The 
Chief Executive and Finance Director are usually invited to attend 
Audit Committee meetings, although the Audit Committee also 
meets the auditor without any Executive Director being present. 
The Chief Executive is invited to attend Remuneration Committee 
meetings where appropriate. The Company Secretary is also Secretary 
to the Board Committees and attends meetings for this purpose.
Board attendance
Board 
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Andrew Allner
(Non-Executive)
7/7 4/4 4/4 1/1
Ian Burrell 5/7 – – –
Jack Clarke 2/7 – – –
Martyn Coffey 7/7 – – –
Alan Coppin
(Non-Executive)
6/7 4/4 4/4 0/1
Mark Edwards
(Non-Executive)
7/7 4/4 4/4 1/1
Tim Pile
(Non-Executive)
7/7 4/4 4/4 1/1
David Sarti 6/7 – – –
In 2015 there are 7 Board, 4 Audit Committee, 4 Remuneration 
Committee and 1 Nomination Committee meetings scheduled, and 
Board members are expected to participate in additional strategy 
meetings and site visits.
Performance reporting and Board information
The Group has in place a comprehensive financial review process, 
including detailed annual budgets, business plans and regular 
forecasting. There is a range of performance indicators which are 
tracked by management on a daily, weekly and monthly basis, as 
appropriate, and addressed through a programme of operational 
meetings and action plans. All Directors receive regular and timely 
information to enable them to perform their duties, including 
information on the Group’s operational and financial performance, 
customer service, health and safety performance and forward trends. 
The Board reviews at each regular Board meeting the monthly 
financial results, taking account of performance indicators and the 
detailed annual business plan and budget. The Board also considers 
forward trends and performance against other key indicators, 
including areas where performance departs from forecasts and on 
contingency plans. The Board reviews and discusses medium and 
long-term strategy on a regular basis and meets at least annually with 
the Executive Committee to review strategy and also holds separate 
meetings with individual members of senior management to update 
the Board on business and strategic issues. In this way, the Board 
assesses the prospects of the Group using all the information at its 
disposal, and considering historic performance, forecast performance 
for the current year, and longer term forecasts over the 3-5 year 
business planning cycle as appropriate. In approving these accounts 
the Board has considered these matters in detail. The Board has 
a reasonable expectation that the Group is able to continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for at least the next 
12 months. Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
39
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Risk management and internal control
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for determining the nature 
and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its 
strategic objectives, and for the Group’s system of internal control. 
The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management and internal controls systems, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls. The Strategic Report comments 
in detail (pages 18 to 20) on the nature of the principal risks facing the 
Group, in particular those that would threaten our business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity and the measures in place 
to mitigate them. In conducting its review, the Board has included a 
robust assessment of these risks. The Audit Committee Report on 
pages 62 to 64 describes the internal control system and how it is 
managed and monitored. The Board acknowledges that such systems 
are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Relations with shareholders
The Board places great emphasis on good communications with 
shareholders. The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet regularly 
with major shareholders to discuss the Group’s performance, strategic 
issues and shareholder investment objectives, and also periodically 
arrange site visits for investors. Reports of these meetings and any 
shareholder communications during the year are provided to the 
Board. During 2014, 83 such meetings were held, at which at least 
47 institutional shareholders were represented. 
The Board also regularly receives copies of analysts’ and brokers’ 
briefings. The Chairman is available to meet major shareholders on 
request to discuss governance and strategy, and held a number of such 
meetings during 2014. The Senior Independent Director is also available 
to meet shareholders separately if requested. When appropriate, the 
Non-Executive Directors attend meetings or site visits with major 
shareholders. There is a regular reporting and announcement schedule 
to ensure that matters of importance affecting the Group are 
communicated to investors, and the Annual and Half-yearly Reports, 
together with the Marshalls website, are substantial means of 
communication with all shareholders during the year.
During 2014, both the Chairman and Alan Coppin in his capacity 
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee held meetings 
and consultations with shareholders in relation to remuneration 
policy, with particular focus on the design and introduction of the 
new Management Incentive Plan approved in May 2014. There is 
further comment on this process in the Remuneration Report. 
Annual General Meeting
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is despatched to shareholders, 
together with explanatory notes or a circular on items of special 
business, at least 20 working days before the meeting. It is the 
Company’s practice to propose separate resolutions on each 
substantially separate issue including a resolution relating to the 
Report and Accounts, and to put all resolutions to an electronic poll 
at the Annual General Meeting. All Directors normally attend the 
meeting, including the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees, who are available to answer questions. 
The Board welcomes questions from shareholders who have an 
opportunity to raise issues informally or formally before or at the 
Annual General Meeting. 
For each resolution the proxy appointment forms provide shareholders 
with the option to direct their proxy vote either for or against the 
resolution or to withhold their vote. The proxy form and any 
announcement of the results of a vote make it clear that a ‘vote 
withheld’ is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation 
of the proportion of the votes for and against the resolution.
All valid proxy appointments are properly recorded and counted. 
Information on the number of shares represented by proxy, the proxy 
votes for and against each resolution, and the number of shares in 
respect of which the vote was withheld for each resolution, together 
with the voting result, are given at the meeting and made available 
on the Company’s website.
Nomination Committee Report
The Board has an established Nomination Committee which is 
normally chaired by Andrew Allner except where it is dealing with 
his own re-appointment or replacement. The members are the 
Non-Executive Directors as shown on pages 32 and 33.
The role of the Nomination Committee includes:
 — Board succession planning, including reviewing the size, 
composition, balance of skills and experience, and giving 
due weight to the achievement of diversity in its widest sense;
 — recruitment and induction of candidates for appointment 
to the Board;
 — reviewing individual performance evaluation outcomes relating 
to Directors standing for election or re-election in advance of the 
Annual General Meeting; and
 — monitoring conflicts, reviewing the Board conflicts policy, 
maintaining the conflicts register, and considering any 
new notifications.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the 
Board evaluation process in 2014, and the Terms of Reference were 
also reviewed. 
During the year the Nomination Committee held one scheduled 
meeting, and additional meetings and discussions in connection 
with succession planning and recruitment were held by telephone. Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
40
Succession planning
The Nomination Committee’s priorities during 2014 included 
overseeing the recruitment of a successor to Ian Burrell, who retired 
in October 2014 as Finance Director. The Committee worked with an 
external search consultant, Lygon, which has no connection with the 
Company other than the provision of the Board search services 
described in this report, to seek suitable candidates and develop 
a shortlist, and the Committee then went through a detailed and 
intensive assessment, resulting in the appointment of Jack Clarke, 
who joined the Board on 1 October 2014. Jack Clarke brings further 
strength to the Board and the Executive management team 
through his extensive experience of international business and 
significant corporate transactions, and has quickly gained a rounded 
understanding of the business following a thorough induction 
programme. Ian Burrell remains an employee until June 2015 and as 
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Marshalls pension scheme, 
to support an orderly and smooth handover. 
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specific terms, subject 
to re-appointment and the Company’s Articles of Association and 
subject to the Companies Act provisions relating to the removal 
of a Director. During 2014, the Committee agreed a framework 
for succession planning with the current Non-Executive Directors 
designed to phase future departures, so that the composition 
of the Board can be refreshed whilst assuring continuity. 
The Board has in previous reports made clear its intention to recruit 
a female Director, but considered that it would not be appropriate 
to pursue this actively during the recent transitional period and 
the handover to the new Executive management team. Following 
the appointment of Martyn Coffey and Jack Clarke, we renewed 
our search for a suitable additional Non-Executive Director with 
complimentary skills and experience. Working with Lygon this 
process has been rigorous and objective and we expect to be making 
an announcement to coincide with the publication of this Report. 
Re‑ appointment of Directors
Each Non-Executive Director was, on joining, provided with 
a detailed description of his role and responsibilities, and received 
a detailed business induction, and all Directors have an annual 
one-to-one development review meeting with the Chairman 
to appraise performance, set personal objectives and discuss any 
development and training needs to enable them to continue to add 
value to the Board. Before any Director is proposed for re-election, 
or has their appointment renewed, the Committee conducts a review 
to provide assurance that the Director continues to be effective and 
demonstrates commitment to the role. The Chairman provides 
an explanation to shareholders as to why the Director should be 
re-elected and confirming that a formal performance evaluation 
has taken place when the resolution to re-elect is circulated. 
It is the Company's policy that Executive Directors can only hold one 
external company Non-Executive Directorship. Voluntary service on 
the Governing Board of a social, trade or charitable organisation is 
also permitted. Details of the external appointments held by the 
Executive Directors are included in the biographical notes on 
pages 32 and 33.
Governance
The Committee has acted in accordance with the principles of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code in developing and applying 
its succession plans and policies. The Committee’s effectiveness, 
including the effective application of those principles, is assessed 
as part of the annual Board evaluation process. The evaluation 
concluded that the Committee had been successful in securing a 
good mix of skills and experience in the composition of the current 
Board. The transition to the current Executive team following the 
retirement of three Executive Directors within the last two years has 
been smoothly and successfully executed without disruption to the 
business. Having put in place a succession framework for the 
Non-Executive Directors, this should allow phased refreshment of 
skills, experience and diversity to support the needs of the business 
and its stakeholders in the future. 
Andrew Allner
Chairman
Corporate Governance Statement continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
41
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in Respect of the 
Annual Report and the Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent 
Company Financial Statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law, 
and have elected to prepare the Parent Company Financial 
Statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including 
FRS 101 "Reduced Disclosure Framework".
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial 
Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of 
their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and 
Parent Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to:
 — select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently;
 — make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 — for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
 — for the Parent Company Financial Statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the Parent Company Financial Statements; and
 — prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Company's 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the 
financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure 
that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as 
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors' Report, 
Directors' Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance 
Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company's 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors of the 
annual financial report
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors' 
Report and whose names and functions are listed on pages 32 and 33 
confirm that, to the best of each of their knowledge:
 — the Financial Statements prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole; and
 — the Strategic Report contained in this Annual Report includes a 
fair review of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a 
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
The Directors consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements, 
taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Group's position and performance, business model and strategy.
Disclosure of information to the auditor
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s Auditor 
is unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought 
to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s Auditor is 
aware of that information. Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
42
Going concern
The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing 
these Financial Statements in accordance with “Going Concern 
and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009” 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009. 
The Directors considered that it was appropriate to do so, having 
reviewed any material uncertainties that may affect the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern for the next 12 months from 
the date these Financial Statements were approved.
Cautionary statement and Directors’ liability
This Annual Report 2014 has been prepared for, and only for, 
the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons. 
Neither the Company nor the Directors accept or assume any liability 
to any person to whom this Annual Report is shown or into whose 
hands it may come except to the extent that such liability arises and 
may not be excluded under English law. Accordingly, any liability to 
a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading 
statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with 
Section 90A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with 
respect to the Group’s financial condition, results, strategy, plans and 
objectives. These statements are not forecasts or guarantees of future 
performance and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to 
events and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the future. 
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or 
developments to differ materially from those expressed, implied 
or forecast by these forward looking statements. All forward-looking 
statements in this Annual Report are based on information known 
to the Group as at the date of this Annual Report and the Group 
has no obligation publicly to update or revise any forward looking 
statements, whether as a result of new information or future events. 
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held 
at The Cedar Court Hotel, Ainley Top, Huddersfield HD3 3RH at 
11.00 am on Wednesday 20 May 2015 together with explanatory 
notes on the resolutions to be proposed is contained in a circular 
to be sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
By Order of the Board
Cathy Baxandall
Group Company Secretary
6 March 2015
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in Respect of the 
Annual Report and the Financial Statements continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
43
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Remuneration Committee Report
Chairman's introduction
Our Remuneration Policy was approved at the Company's 
Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2014 and is intended 
to apply for 3 years. This Report summarises the key 
features of the Policy applied in 2014. The full policy can 
be found in the Company's 2013 Remuneration Report, 
accessible via the Investor Relations section of our website 
(www.marshalls.co.uk).
Alan Coppin
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Our aim, in updating our Executive 
incentive structure in 2014, was to 
achieve closer alignment with our 
strategic objectives and to increase 
the proportion of variable pay taken 
in the form of long term shares or 
share equivalents. Following the 
introduction of the MIP , almost 
three quarters of the maximum 
opportunity for Directors now 
takes the form of shares."
I am pleased to report to you on the Remuneration Committee’s 
activities and objectives during 2014. This Report is divided into 
3 sections: the Chairman’s Annual Statement (this introduction); a 
summary of our Remuneration Policy; and our Annual Remuneration 
Report, explaining how the policy was implemented during 2014.
The main focus of the Committee’s work in the latter part of 2013 
and early 2014 was to review and update our Executive incentive 
structure. In doing this, our aims were:
 — to achieve closer alignment with our strategic objectives;
 — to simplify the incentive structure while retaining flexibility 
to address changing market conditions;
 — to increase the proportion of variable pay awarded in shares 
or share equivalents; and
 — to meet new regulatory and best practice guidelines 
on remuneration. 
In May 2014 we introduced the new Management Incentive Plan (“MIP”), 
which replaced both the annual deferred bonus plan (the “PIP”) and the 
Group’s 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (“2005 LTIP”) as our means of 
delivering future performance-related variable incentives. The MIP , which 
was approved by a substantial majority of our shareholders, is designed 
to incorporate current “best practice” remuneration principles, and 
includes an additional 2-year holding period for share awards vesting 
after 3 years. It also contains appropriate clawback and malus provisions 
both during and after vesting. Before proposing the MIP to shareholders, 
there was an extensive and detailed consultation with our major 
shareholders, resulting in modifications to the design to 
accommodate shareholder feedback. In particular, the overall maximum 
percentage of salary was reduced, and an underpin was applied to the 
long-term share award (Element B), an element of which provides for 
forfeiture (50%) if, during the period before vesting, EPS falls below a 
pre-determined base level. Following introduction of the MIP , 70 per 
cent of Directors’ maximum variable remuneration takes the form of 
shares or share equivalents. 
We also formalised our Remuneration Policy and put it to a 
shareholder vote in 2014. The Policy was approved with a strong 
majority of over 87 per cent of all votes cast. The Committee considers 
that remuneration practice during the year has been consistent 
with the Policy and that it remains appropriate. The Committee has 
considered the new Code, and believes that the level of minimum 
shareholding requirement is sufficient. There is a 2 year holding 
period following the vesting of Element B MIP awards which 
continues post cessation of employment. Consequently we do not 
propose to re-submit the Policy to a vote at the 2015 AGM, although 
Remuneration Committee members
 — Alan Coppin - Chairman
 — Andrew Allner
 — Mark Edwards
 — Tim Pile Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
44
Remuneration Committee Report continued
we have included the key features of the Policy in this report for 
reference. The Annual Remuneration Report and this Chair’s Annual 
Statement will be subject to an advisory vote of shareholders.
Our remuneration policy aims to encourage behaviours that will 
ensure the sustainability and long term health of the business and 
avoid inappropriate risk-taking, while recognising and rewarding the 
creation of shareholder value. Remuneration targets are designed to 
support the delivery of our key strategic objectives. Our remuneration 
packages also need to be appropriate to attract, motivate and retain 
talent, both at Executive Director level and throughout the business.
Our strategic objectives in 2014 were focused on maximising our 
operational efficiencies to meet growing demand, retaining our 
market-leading position through innovation in products and services, 
and growing profitably our international business. The financial targets 
set at the beginning of 2014 for MIP awards were based on achievement 
of significant improvements in EPS, net debt and International sales, as 
the proxies for measuring progress against these objectives. Our brand, 
market leadership and sustainability objectives were incorporated 
through the addition of non-financial criteria (customer service and 
health and safety improvement) with a discount factor of 20 per cent 
if they were not met. 
At the time of grant, the targets set for maximum performance took 
account of the "best case" consensus expectations of our shareholders 
and set targets to incorporate significant stretch against these expectations 
and the Group's budget for the year. I am delighted that our performance 
against these objectives in 2014 has been very strong, with EPS up by 
46 per cent from 6.94 pence to 10.13 pence and net debt reducing from 
£35.6 million to £30.5 million. International sales also grew strongly from 
a low base. This outcome means that 2014 awards will be at the 
maximum end of the designated range for EPS and net debt and will fall 
just short of the maximum target for International sales. The health and 
safety and customer service targets were achieved. Share price rose by 
33 per cent from 176.25 pence to 234.0 pence during the year and the 
dividend has increased by 14 per cent in line with our dividend policy. 
This very positive performance in 2014 is reflected in the level of 
Element A and Element B awards earned under the MIP; it will also 
affect the levels of vesting of previous incentive awards under the 
2005 LTIP and allow deferred PIP balances to be paid. Details of 
Directors’ awards earned in 2014 and the performance measures 
used are shown in the Annual Remuneration Report.
The other area of focus in 2014 for the Committee related to the 
recruitment of Jack Clarke as Group Finance Director, who joined us in 
October 2014 following Ian Burrell’s retirement from the Board, and the 
exercise of discretions under the Policy in relation to Ian Burrell and 
David Sarti, Group Operations Director, who retired in December 2014. 
Both Ian Burrell and David Sarti qualify as “good leavers” and will 
receive a proportionate element of their share incentive awards 
following retirement, details of which are disclosed in the Annual 
Remuneration Report. Details of Graham Holden’s “good leaver” 
awards that became payable following his retirement as Chief 
Executive in October 2013 were included in the 2013 Annual Report.
Main activities of the Committee
During 2014 the Committee met 4 times, and there were additional 
discussions and meetings with shareholders and with external 
remuneration consultants ("PwC"). The Chief Executive and the 
Company Secretary attend Committee meetings where appropriate. 
Attendance at meetings is shown on page 38.
Meetings Matters discussed 
February-March 2014 Set overall Remuneration Policy. MIP: consider outcomes of shareholder consultation; finalisation of MIP 
design and determination of 2014 performance targets. Measure achievement of incentive targets for 
2013 and approve payments under incentive schemes. Approve individual awards for 2014. Review 2013 
Remuneration Committee Report. Review Board expenses paid.
April-July 2014 Review application of Remuneration Policy for retiring Directors and other “good leavers” and remuneration 
package and incentive awards for new joiners. 
September-October 2014 Approve new FD package, including introductory MIP and LTIP awards. External advisers’ recommendations 
on remuneration framework, including benchmarking (Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors); 
report on pay and benefit conditions elsewhere in the business. Consider appropriateness of Remuneration 
Policy and design of incentive schemes. Review termination obligations arising under service contracts. 
December 2014 Approval of proposed pay and benefits for Executive Directors in 2015. Board review of Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees (other than Chairman’s). Board expenses policy review. Review and update Committee terms 
of reference. Evaluate Committee performance.
How we performed in 2014
Strategic objective Measure Expressed as Outcome
Maximise operational efficiencies and increase output 
to meet demand
Profit / cash EPS / net debt Operating profit: £25.3m (+57%);
EPS: 10.13p (+46%); Gearing 16.8%
Retain market-leading position and grow profit Profit EPS EPS: 10.13p (+46%)
Grow international business profitably International sales International sales turnover £22.1m (+ 27%)
Strengthen the brand, develop trust and excellence Customer service Customer service index 97%
Grow sustainably, investing in our people and 
protecting their well-being
Health & safety Health & safety 
accident reduction
30% reduction year on year Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
45
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Application of policy and any changes
Decision Rationale 
Element (fixed)
Salary 2.9% salary increase for current Executive Directors; Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees also rose by 2.9%, both with effect from January 
2015. FD role recruited at less than targeted policy level; 
Committee reserves right to increase FD salary by more than 
average once he is established in the role.
2015 increase reflects 2.9% inflation award for the workforce 
as a whole. 
Benefits No overall change in range of benefits. 
NED fixed travel allowance replaced by business expense 
reimbursement procedure.
Martyn Coffey continues to receive travel and accommodation 
expenses within his 3 year allowance.
Jack Clarke also receives travel and accommodation expenses 
pending his relocation.
The current range and level of benefits remains appropriate.
Simpler and more cost-effective for business expenses to be 
reimbursed retrospectively following change in frequency and 
location of Board meetings.
Pension Increased CEO annual pension contribution from fixed sum (£75k) 
to 20% of salary from January 2015.
To bring into line with Policy and other Executive Directors.
Element (variable)
PIP There are no further awards under PIP: deferred balance of previously 
earned PIP accounts as at 31 December 2014 will vest in 2015.
Replaced by Element A of the MIP .
2005 LTIP Final awards made in 2014. Replaced by Element B of the MIP . Awards made in 2014 to bridge gap before potential vesting 
of first Element B awards under MIP; these incorporate 
performance targets that remain stretching, measured over 
the 3 years 2014-2017 that are more closely aligned with 
current strategic growth objectives.
MIP Combines annual deferred bonus (Element A) and long term 
shareholding (Element B). Details of 2014 awards are set out in the 
Annual Remuneration Report. 2015 financial targets will be EPS 
(75%) and Net Debt (25%).
EPS and net debt remain good measures of performance against strategic 
objectives. Customer service and health and safety targets remain. 
International sales now becoming established so it is not necessary 
to retain a separate target, as progress will be included in overall sales.
The Committee is supportive of the Company's employee engagement agenda, part of which is to encourage wider share ownership within 
the business. Resolutions to approve the introduction of an all-employee Sharesave ("SAYE") scheme and a Bonus Share Plan (under which 
those in the wider operational bonus schemes other than the MIP may receive some of their bonus in the form of shares) and to extend the 
current all-employee share purchase plan will be submitted for approval at the 2015 AGM.
Statement of shareholder voting 
The table below shows the May 2014 AGM voting results on the resolutions relating to remuneration. 
For and
discretion as a Against as a
percentage of percentage of
For and discretion votes cast Against votes cast Withheld
Resolution 12 (Remuneration Policy) Votes 123,630,225 87.31 17,973,475 12.69 5,712,750
Resolution 13 (Remuneration Report) Votes 132,391,079 90.29 14,244,807 9.71 681,564
Resolution 14 (2014 MIP) Votes 125,607,824 85.69 20,981,287 14.31 725,040
The Committee believes the percentage of votes in favour of the Remuneration Report shows that shareholders support the Group’s 
remuneration arrangements.
Remuneration disclosure
Our Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2008 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. It also meets the requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and the UK Listing Authority’s Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
I hope you find this report helpful and informative. I will be available at the Company’s AGM on 20 May 2015 to answer any questions on our 
Policy, its application and this Remuneration Report. 
Allan Coppin
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
46
Policy summary
Element
Purpose and how it supports 
the strategy Operation Opportunity/maximum Performance measures and period
Fixed remuneration
Base salary
Recognises the market value of the 
Executive’s role, skill, responsibilities, 
performance and experience.
Fixed costs are minimised and 
above-median level of total 
remuneration is only provided where 
the performance elements of the 
package are earned.
An Executive Director’s basic salary 
is considered by the Committee on 
appointment and reviewed annually 
or when an individual changes 
position or responsibility. In 
reviewing base salary, the Committee 
considers remuneration practices 
within the Group as a whole and, 
where relevant, objective research 
on companies within the Company’s 
peer groups. Other factors taken into 
account include:
 — the individual performance 
and experience of the 
Executive Director;
 — the general performance 
of the Company; and
 — the economic environment.
Salary is paid in 12 equal monthly 
instalments during the year.
The Remuneration Committee policy 
in relation to salary is:
 — up to the median salary on 
appointment depending 
on the experience and 
background of the new 
Executive Director;
 — on promotion, up to the 
median salary for the new role;
 — otherwise pay increases will not 
exceed the higher of inflation 
and/or pay rises generally for 
Group employees; and
 — individuals who are recruited 
or promoted to the Board may 
have their salaries set below 
the targeted policy level until 
they become established 
in their role. In such cases 
subsequent increases in salary 
may be higher than the average 
until the target positioning 
is achieved.
None.
Benefits
The Company provides benefits in 
order to be competitive and to 
ensure it is able to recruit and retain 
Executive Directors.
Benefits for Executive Directors are 
a fully expensed company car, an 
annual medical and private medical 
insurance (including spouse and 
dependent children up to age 24), 
and death-in-service insurance. 
Executive Directors may be entitled 
to claim travel and accommodation 
expenses subject to agreed limits 
on appointment.
The cost of providing these benefits 
is borne by the Company.
The Company may carry permanent 
health insurance cover in respect of 
up to 100% of an Executive Director’s 
salary. Although not a benefit to 
Executive Directors, this insurance 
offers comfort to Executive Directors 
in the event of long term ill health.
Package consistent with 
standard practice and in line 
with peer group.
The maximum value available 
is the cost of the benefits.
None.
Remuneration Report Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
47
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Element
Purpose and how it supports 
the strategy Operation Opportunity/maximum Performance measures and period
Pension/ 
pension 
allowance
To enable Executive Directors 
to make appropriate provision 
for retirement.
Executive Directors are entitled 
to membership of the defined 
contribution section of the 
Marshalls plc Pension Scheme. 
The Company contributes at an 
agreed percentage of basic salary.
Executive Directors may take a 
pensions allowance in place of 
the Company’s contribution to 
the Scheme.
Pension allowances are excluded 
for the purposes of calculating any 
other element of remuneration 
based on a percentage of salary.
Maximum Company 
contribution is 20% of base 
salary for Executive Directors.
None.
Variable performance-related remuneration
The Marshalls 
Incentive Plan 
(“MIP”)
Element A
To link variable pay to achievement 
of annual financial and business 
objectives.
Deferral of 50% of the balance 
into share-linked units provides 
shareholder alignment and enhances 
retention as payment is subject 
to confirmed alignment.
Significant proportion of overall 
reward is in the form of shares or 
share equivalent.
Annual target set by reference to 
strategic and operational objectives 
by Remuneration Committee. 
If conditions met, 50% of earned 
award paid as cash. 50% deferred as 
shares into individual plan account.
50% of accrued plan account 
balance paid out annually for 3 
years, provided forfeiture threshold 
exceeded each year, with the final 
balance paid at the end of the 
fourth year.
Awards subject to continued 
employment at end of the period.
The forfeiture thresholds if not 
achieved result in the loss of up 
to 50% of unpaid awards. 
There are also malus and clawback 
provisions in the event of material 
misstatement or fraud or an error 
in the calculation of the 
performance conditions.
Maximum Company annual 
contribution of 150% of salary 
for Executive Directors.
2014 targets set for EPS, net debt and 
International sales performance. 2015 
targets set for EPS and net debt. The 
Committee has the discretion to 
change the targets and their 
weightings on an annual basis.
The Committee considers that the 
future targets for the MIP are 
commercially sensitive as they relate 
to profitability and debt limits for the 
financial year to come and disclosure 
in advance is not in the interests 
of the Company or shareholders.
The Committee provides full 
retrospective disclosure to enable 
shareholders to judge the level of 
award provided against the targets 
set in previous years. Full disclosure 
of 2014 targets and achievement levels 
is made in the Annual Remuneration 
Report 2014.
The Committee retains discretion in 
exceptional circumstances to change 
performance measures and targets 
and the weightings attached to 
performance measures part-way 
through a performance year if there is 
a significant and material event which 
causes the Committee to believe the 
original measures, weightings and 
targets are no longer appropriate. 
Discretion may also be exercised in 
cases where the Committee believes 
that the bonus outcome is not a 
fair and accurate reflection of 
business performance. Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
48
Remuneration Report continued
Element
Purpose and how it supports 
the strategy Operation Opportunity/maximum Performance measures and period
Variable performance-related remuneration (continued)
MIP Element B To link variable pay to achievement 
of annual financial and business 
objectives.
To promote long term shareholding 
in the Company and strengthen 
alignment between interests of 
Executive Directors and senior 
managers and those of shareholders.
Annual target set by reference to 
strategic and operational objectives 
by Remuneration Committee. 
Awards are made annually in the 
form of nil cost options or 
conditional shares, and are subject 
to continued employment and a 
financial underpin for 3 years.
Awards become exercisable or 
unconditional after 3 years but, 
once vested, may not be sold 
for a further 2 years.
Participants build up a 
shareholding over 5 years.
There is a financial underpin which, 
if not achieved over 3 years results 
in the loss of up to 50% of 
unvested awards. 
There are also malus and clawback 
provisions in the event of material 
misstatement or fraud or an error 
in the calculation of the 
performance conditions.
Maximum Company annual 
contribution of 100% of salary for 
Executive Directors.
The targets for Element B are the same 
as for Element A set out on page 47.
In addition, there is a risk of forfeiture 
of 50% of this element of the award 
if a minimum performance target 
based on EPS is not achieved over 
the 3 years between award 
and vesting.
The Committee retains the same 
discretion for Element B as for 
Element A set out on page 47.
Full retrospective disclosure of 2014 
targets and continued conditions is 
set out in the Annual Remuneration 
Report 2014.
Shareholding 
requirement
In order to ensure a long-term 
alignment between the Executive 
Directors and shareholders the 
Company operates a minimum 
shareholding requirement for 
Executive Directors.
Executive Directors are required to 
retain 50% of the net number of 
shares earned under the Company’s 
incentive arrangements until the 
shareholding requirement is satisfied.
A new Executive Director may build 
up the minimum requirement within 
the first 5 years from the year of 
joining. Failure to meet the 
shareholding requirement within 
5 years of appointment will result 
in a reduction in the future levels 
of award under the Company’s 
incentive plans.
The minimum shareholding 
requirement for the CEO is 200% 
of salary, and the minimum for 
other Executive Directors is 100%. 
The Committee has discretion 
to increase the level if it 
deems appropriate.
Non‑ Executive 
Directors’ fees
Annual fee to attract and 
retain experienced and skilled 
Non-Executive Directors with 
the necessary experience and 
expertise to advise and assist 
with establishing and monitoring 
the strategic objectives of the 
Company. Fees reflect the time 
commitment and responsibilities 
of the roles.
Additional fee paid to the 
Senior Independent Director 
and for Chairmanship of a 
Board Committee.
Terms of engagement provided 
in formal letters of appointment. 
Remuneration is determined 
by the Board within the limits set by the 
Articles of Association. The Chairman's 
fee is set by the Committee. Fees are 
reviewed annually and periodically 
benchmarked against equivalent roles 
in the same comparator groups as are 
used for Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors do 
not receive any bonus, do not 
participate in awards under the 
Company’s share plans, and are 
not eligible to join the Company’s 
pension scheme.
Non-Executive Directors receive 
a travel and accommodation 
allowance in connection with 
the performance of their duties, 
which was a fixed sum in 2014.
The Company’s policy in relation 
to fees is:
 — up to median level fees 
on appointment depending 
on the experience and 
background of the new 
Non-Executive Director;
 — increases during a term 
of office will not normally 
exceed the lower of 
inflation or the general 
rise for employees; and 
 — fees may be adjusted 
to recognise significant 
change in responsibility 
levels (for example if the 
Company’s ranking as a 
constituent of the FTSE 
All Share Index changes).
None. Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
49
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Recruitment policy
Remuneration element Policy
Base salary Salaries reflect the role and responsibility of the individual, using external benchmarks as a point of reference for comparative roles in line with 
policy for existing Executive Directors. The Company would wherever possible aim to recruit at a salary lower than the previous salary for the same 
role (except where the previous salary was below median). In exceptional circumstances the Committee may offer salaries in excess of the median 
for the right candidate with an appropriate business case and in such cases will provide a full explanation to shareholders.
Benefits The Company’s standard benefit package will be offered. This may include relocation / travel and accommodation allowance where required to 
attract the right candidate.
Pension Maximum contribution on recruitment is 20% of salary. 
MIP The maximum award value is set in line with the Company’s policy for existing Executive Directors.
Maximum level of variable 
remuneration
The maximum level of annual variable remuneration which may be earned by an Executive Director under the Company’s MIP is 250% 
of salary.
“Buy Outs” The Committee’s policy is not to provide buy outs as a matter of course but it reserves the right to do so where the individual circumstances 
of recruitment justify the provision of a buyout broadly up to the equivalent value of the lapsed value of incentives that may be forfeited 
from previous employment. To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buy out within the terms of the Company’s 
existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
Internal recruit An internal recruit will be permitted to keep any deferred payments or awards granted which the Company made or committed to 
before his or her appointment to the Board.
The Company’s policy when setting fees for the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors is to apply the policy which applies to current 
Non-Executive Directors.
Service contracts and policy on termination payments
Each Executive Director has a service contract with the Company which is terminable by the Company on not more than 12 months’ notice and 
by the Director on 6 months’ notice. Directors' service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses. There are no contractual arrangements 
that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement. There is no agreement between the Company 
and its Directors or employees, providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed under letters of appointment, usually for a term of 3 years. Either the Company 
or the Non-Executive Director may terminate the appointment before the end of the current term on 6 months' notice. If the unexpired term 
is less than 6 months, notice does not need to be served. All Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election. No compensation is 
payable if a Non-Executive Director is required to stand down.
Copies of Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office on application 
to the Company Secretary and will also be on display at the Company’s Annual General Meeting. Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
50
Remuneration Report continued
Policy on termination
Remuneration element Treatment on exit Committee discretion
General When determining any loss of office payment for a departing individual the 
Committee will always seek to minimise the cost to the Company whilst seeking 
to reflect the circumstances at the time.
The Committee retains discretion to make loss of office 
payments appropriate to the circumstances and applying 
the overriding principle that there should be no element 
of reward for failure.
Base salary Salary will be paid over the notice period. The Committee has discretion to make a lump sum payment 
on termination equal to the value of the salary payable during 
the notice period. In all cases the Company will seek to 
mitigate any payments due.
Benefits Benefits will normally be provided over the notice period. The Committee has discretion to make a lump sum payment 
on termination equal to the value of the benefits payable 
during the notice period. In all cases the Company will seek to 
mitigate any payments due.
Pension / salary 
supplement
Company pension contributions / pension allowance will normally be provided 
over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment 
on termination equal to the value of the Company pension 
contributions / allowance during the notice period. In all 
cases the Company will seek to mitigate any payments due.
Variable / performance-
related remuneration 
provided under the MIP
The rules of the MIP provide that on termination of employment before the 
performance measurement date or prior to the relevant vesting date, no award will 
be granted in respect of the year of cessation and any subsisting entitlements will 
lapse; unless the following circumstances apply:
 — injury or disability;
 — redundancy within the meaning of the Employment Rights Act 1996 
or equivalent legislation;
 — retirement by agreement with the Company;
 — the Executive being employed by a company which ceases to be a 
Group member;
 — the Executive being employed in an undertaking or part of an undertaking 
which is transferred to a person who is not a Group member; or
 — any other circumstances if the Committee decides in any particular case 
to treat the Executive Director as a “good leaver” .
If an Executive Director leaves in one of the above circumstances the rules provide 
for the following:
Element A of the MIP
The Committee will calculate the amount of any payment pro-rated to the amount 
of the plan year completed on the Executive’s date of cessation and taking into 
account the level of satisfaction of the performance targets at the next performance 
measurement date. Any payment is made as soon as practicable after the 
determination of the level of satisfaction of the performance targets.
Deferred balances will be paid, as the performance conditions were satisfied at the 
date of grant.
Element B of the MIP
In respect of the year of cessation the Committee will calculate any award pro-rated 
to the amount of the plan year completed on the Executive’s date of cessation and 
taking into account the level of satisfaction of the performance targets at the next 
performance measurement date. Any award will be made as soon as practicable 
after the determination of the level of satisfaction of the performance targets and 
will remain subject to the sale restrictions.
Shares subject to subsisting awards at the date of cessation of employment vest 
on the date of cessation or the next measurement date as determined by the 
Committee pro-rated to the amount of the relevant vesting period completed 
and subject to the proportionate satisfaction of the financial underpin on such 
date provided that the shares shall remain subject to the relevant sale restrictions.
The Committee has discretion to determine that the reason 
for termination falls within the categories described.
The Committee will only use its general discretion to 
determine that an Executive Director is a “good leaver” 
in exceptional circumstances and will provide a full 
explanation to shareholders, if possible in advance, 
of the basis for its determination. Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
51
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
This report covers the reporting period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 and explains how the Remuneration Policy has 
been implemented.
Total remuneration in 2014 ‑ Executive Directors (Audited)
Fixed (£'000) Performance related (£'000)
Pension Annual bonus
Long term 
incentives
contribution/ (MIP Element A/
Salary Other benefits allowance PIP bonus) MIP Element B LTIP/MIP/PIP Total
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Ian Burrell 184 237 8 13 54 71 183 151 20 – 1,475 662 1,924 1,134
Jack Clarke 58 – 2 – 11 – 43 – 114 – – – 228 –
Martyn Coffey 400 125 21 16 75 23 298 79 199 – 108 – 1,101 243
David Sarti 217 237 15 16 65 71 353 151 – – 1,146 662 1,796 1,137
Total 859 599 46 45 205 165 877 381 333 – 2,729 1,324 5,049 2,514
Note a Note a Note b Note c
Notes d
and f Note d
Notes e, f, 
g and h 
Notes on remuneration table
(a)  Ian Burrell retired from the Board on 1 October 2014. The table includes his remuneration for the period between 1 January and 1 October 2014. David Sarti retired from the Board on 1 December 2014. 
The table includes his remuneration for the period between 1 January 2014 and 1 December 2014. Jack Clarke joined the Group and was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2014. The table 
includes his remuneration for the period between 1 October and 31 December 2014. The 2013 figure for Martyn Coffey relates to the period from his joining the Board (9 September 2013) 
to 31 December 2013.
(b) Benefits are car/car allowance, fuel/fuel allowance, private medical insurance, life insurance and in the case of Martyn Coffey and Jack Clarke, travel and accommodation expenses.
(c)  All Directors received a pensions allowance in lieu of contributions into the Group’ s pension scheme throughout the year. No Director had any entitlement under the defined benefit section of the Pension Scheme and 
no additional benefit was received as a result of early retirement.
(d)  The Annual bonus column shows 50 per cent of the total bonus contribution earned under the MIP Element A in respect of 2014 performance, and 50 per cent of the total value of Element B shares awarded which are 
deferred but are not subject to further performance conditions (other than continued employment). The remaining 50 per cent in respect of 2014 Element A is deferred into shares in the MIP account which are subject to 
performance and employment-based forfeiture for a further holding period. The remaining 50 per cent of 2014 Element B shares is subject to performance and employment-based forfeiture for a 3 year deferred period. 
These deferred elements will be disclosed in the L TIP column when the conditions are satisfied, Note (f) explains the different treatment of “ good leavers” Ian Burrell and David Sarti. For 2013, the annual PIP bonus 
represents 50 per cent of the total bonus contribution made to the PIP in respect of 2013 performance.
(e) The L TIP column shows the aggregate value of:
 (i) sums released from PIP and MIP account balances from earlier years that are no longer subject to deferral and forfeiture risk; and
 (ii) 2012 Performance Share awards under the 2005 L TIP that have vested by reference to the 2012-2014 vesting period. 
(f) The “ good leaver” entitlement in the case of Ian Burrell and David Sarti breaks down as follows:
 (i) bonus released from PIP account balance carried over from 2013 in the normal course following the 2014 results (see Note (e) (i));
 (ii) 2012 Performance Share awards under the L TIP that vest in the normal course following the 2014 results;
 (iii) the estimated value of 2013 and 2014 L TIP awards which vest on a pro-rata basis on the date of leaving under the “ good leaver” rules; and
 (iv) the value of outstanding pro-rated MIP entitlements.
Outstanding MIP and LTIP awards have been valued in accordance with the Regulations as the number of shares/notional shares x the average share price over the last 
quarter of 2014 (212.76 pence) and are summarised in the following table:
Balance of PIP Balance of MIP
account Element A and B 2012 LTIP
(1)
2013 LTIP
(1)
2014 LTIP
(1)
Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Ian Burrell 490
(2)
203
(3)
261
(4)
377
(5)
144
(6)
1,475
David Sarti 490
(7)
— 261
(8)
302
(9)
93
(10)
1,146
Notes 
(1) Estimated value under Regulations
(2) 230,133 shares x 212.76 pence
(3) 95,325 shares x 212.76 pence
(4) 122,511 shares x 212.76 pence
(5) 177,160 shares x 212.76 pence
(6) 67,830 shares x 212.76 pence
(7) 230,133 shares x 212.76 pence
(8) 122,511 shares x 212.76 pence
(9) 141,962 shares x 212.76 pence
(10) 43,811 shares x 212.76 pence
Annual Remuneration Report Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
52
Annual Remuneration Report continued
Setting pay in context
The following graphs illustrate the relationship between total expenditure on remuneration and other disbursements from profit over the 
past 3 years.
The 4 elements in the table represent the most significant outgoings for the Company during the financial year. In addition to staff pay and 
shareholder distributions, capital investment and taxation are shown for the following reasons:
 — investment – the Company restricted investment during the economic downturn, but plans to invest strategically over the next period 
to take advantage of the more positive economic conditions and in order to ensure that the business grows in a sustainable manner with 
a corresponding long-term benefit for all stakeholders; and
 — tax – the Company is a UK taxpayer and feels that it is beneficial to demonstrate to all its stakeholders its total UK tax contribution. 
The most significant elements of the Company's UK tax contribution are VAT, employer's NI, fuel duty and aggregates levy. 
As profitability increases, corporation tax will also increase.
Relative importance of spend on pay
 —
Total shareholder return
 
This chart shows the Group’s total shareholder return (“TSR”) performance compared to the FTSE Small Cap Index for the period from 1 January 2009 
to 31 December 2014. TSR is defined as share price growth plus reinvested dividends. Marshalls plc was a constituent of the FTSE Small Cap Index 
throughout the period illustrated. This chart shows the value at 31 December 2014 of £100 invested in Marshalls plc on 31 December 2009 
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE Small Cap Index. The other plotted points are the intervening financial year ends. Marshalls' 
TSR performance was 36 per cent better than the overall performance of the FTSE Small Cap Index in 2014.
 Marshalls plc
 FTSE Small Cap Index
Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 12 Dec 11 Dec 10 Dec 09 Jan 09
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
2012 2012 2012 2012
69.2
10.3
9.5
51.0
2013 2013 2013 2013
Staff pay (£m) Distributions to 
shareholders (£m)
Capital investment (£m) Tax (£m)
2014 2014 2014 2014
67.1
10.3
6.1
50.5
76.6
10.8
12.0
60.4
Percentage change
+4.9% +26.2%
+18.4%
+10.7% Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
53
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
CEO pay in last 6 years
This table shows how pay for the CEO role has changed in the last 6 years. Graham Holden was succeeded by Martyn Coffey as CEO on 10 October 2013.
Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
(Graham Holden)
£'000
(Graham Holden)
£'000
(Graham Holden)
£'000
(Graham Holden)
£'000
(Graham Holden/
Martyn Coffey)
(Note a)
£'000
(Martyn Coffey)
£'000
Single figure remuneration 711 671 752 938 3,143 1,101
% of maximum annual bonus earned 46.4% 38.6% 78.1% 33.0% 63.6% 99.3%
% of maximum LTIP awards vesting 0 0 0 0 63.0 0
Note (a): The 2013 single figure is made up of Graham Holden’s base salary up to 10 October 2013 of £319,000, his benefits of £10,000 and his pension allowance of £96,000. He also received PIP annual 
bonus of £1,313,000, and LTIP awards, including 2012 and 2013 awards vesting early on a pro-rata basis due to good leaver status, of a value of £1,162,000 and these were included as part of the single 
figure in the 2013 Annual Report. The 2013 figure also includes Martyn Coffey’s proportionate entitlement to salary, benefits and annual bonus for his period of service in 2013. Graham Holden's normal 
remuneration in the year excluding accelerated payments due to his good leaver status was £1,475,000.
Percentage change in CEO's remuneration
The table below shows how the percentage change in the CEO's salary, benefits and bonus between 2013 and 2014 compares with 
the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for the UK-based employees of the Group as a whole.
Percentage Percentage
Salary change Taxable benefits change Bonus (note b) Percentage
£’000 (Note a) £’000 (Note a) £’000 increase
2014 2013 % 2014 2013 % 2014 2013 %
Graham Holden – 319 N/A – 10 N/A – 262 N/A
Martyn Coffey 400 90 N/A 21 16 N/A 497 79 N/A
Sub‑ total 400 409 (2) 21 26 (19) 497 341 46
UK total pay 73,412 65,402 12.2 304 326 (6.7) 2,336 967 141.4
Number of employees 2,131 2,041 4.4 438 454 (3.5) 273 272 0.4
Average per employee 34.4 32.0 7.5 0.7 0.7 (3.3) 8.6 3.6 140.5
Notes:
(a)  Figures for Graham Holden and Martyn Coffey in 2013 and 2014 have been annualised. The actual amounts received were less. Martyn Coffey’s salary was increased on 1 January 2015 by 2.9 per cent, 
the same percentage increase as given to the workforce as a whole.
(b) The bonus is the non-deferred amount earned for the relevant year. 
Outcomes of incentive schemes in 2014 (audited)
This section explains how 2014 performance is reflected in rewards earned under the Company’s incentive schemes.
Management Incentive Plan (“MIP”)
The MIP incorporates: 
 — Element A, an annual bonus award carrying a maximum of 150 per cent of salary, of which 50 per cent must be deferred into shares; and
 — Element B, an award normally in the form of a nil-cost option to acquire shares, carrying a maximum of 100 per cent of salary, conditional 
on continued employment for 3 years from grant and 50 per cent of which is also subject to a financial condition over the 3 year period. 
Element B shares must be held for a further 2 years after vesting. 
Both awards depend on achievement of the Performance Conditions set by the Committee at the date of award. The table below shows the 
2014 Performance Conditions and the extent to which they have been satisfied.
Percentage
of maximum Percentage Percentage
contribution Percentage of salary of salary
based on Minimum Maximum 2014 of target earned earned
Measurement measurement target target Actual achieved (Element A) (Element B)
EPS 60% 6.35p 8.35p 10.13p 100% 90 60
Net debt 30% £41.5m £36.5m £30.5m 100% 45 30
International sales 10% £18.5m £22.5m £22.1m
(1)
93.5% 14 9.3
Non-financial targets 20% deduction 
if not met
95%
(Customer
service)
10% reduction
(Health and safety)
N/A All met 100% No 
deduction
No 
deduction 
 
 
(1) at constant exchange rates Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
54
Annual Remuneration Report continued
Management Incentive Plan (“MIP”) continued
Performance conditions were set at the beginning of 2014 and the Committee took account of both internal budgets and external factors such as 
the market consensus of investors for the full year 2014. During the year cash flow from sales improved significantly and pre-tax profit grew by 
72 per cent. This performance meant that the stretching EPS and net debt targets set at the beginning of the year were achieved in full, while 
the good progress shown in International sales was reflected in a 93.5 per cent achievement against target. The share price improved by 33 per 
cent (31 December 2013: 176.25 pence; 31 December 2014: 234 pence) which means the value of share awards has increased.
The impact on the total annual remuneration opportunity for each of the continuing Executive Directors under the Policy is shown below. 
Notes:
 — The base salary, benefits and pension information is taken from the Single Figure Remuneration table on page 51. 
 — Achievement of “Target” financial conditions results in 70 per cent of the annual award under the MIP being earned.
 — “Below threshold” assumes a performance that fails to meet the threshold for both Element A and Element B so is the level below which no variable pay under the MIP is earned.
 — “Outperformance” represents the full 250 per cent of salary potential under the MIP .
 — The Finance Director chart illustrates the outcome irrespective of the change in Finance Director during the year, as the targets for both Ian Burrell and Jack Clarke were the same. 
The disclosure is, therefore, on an annualised basis.
EPS
EPS relates to our strategic objective to grow profits. The Group's profit before tax on continuing operations grew from £13.0 million to 
£22.4 million. EPS from continuing operations improved from 6.94 pence in 2013 to 10.13 pence in 2014. EPS is measured using International 
Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRSs") based on the audited results of the Group and subject to the discretion of the Committee with regard 
to one-off items.
Net debt 
Net debt is relevant for measurement of cash flow and overall sustainability. The Group's net debt at 31 December 2014 of £30.5 million was 
better than the lower (better) end of the target range set by the Committee at the beginning of the year.
International sales
The Group set a specific target relating to growth of International sales, chiefly in Europe through Marshalls NV and through the recently 
established sales office in North America. International sales grew to £22.1 million (at constant exchange rates), exceeding the budget but 
not reaching the maximum target of £22.5 million set at the beginning of the year.
Additional performance conditions
Our customers are at the heart of our business model, and our measurement of customer service uses factors such as product availability, 
on-time delivery performance and administrative and delivery accuracy to assess performance. The Group’s average customer service 
performance, assessed monthly, exceeded its minimum target of 95 per cent throughout 2014. The Group also continued its excellent 
performance against its stated objective of reducing days lost to accidents by 10 per cent year on year. The actual reduction in days lost 
to accidents year on year was 29.6 per cent. Had these two targets not been met, the overall level of MIP award would have reduced by 
20 per cent; the achievement of these measures means that no reduction factor will apply.
Finance Director
Key Salary, benefits and pension MIP Element A MIP Element B Key MIP Element B MIP Element A Salary, benefits and pension
£1,000 £500 £0 £1,500 £2,000
27% 40% 33%
41% 35% 24%
100%
Below threshold
Target
Outperformance 27% 40% 33%
41% 35% 24%
100%
Below threshold
Target
Outperformance
£2,000 £1,500 £1,000 £500 £0
Chief Executive
27% 40% 33% 2014 Actual 27% 40% 33% 2014 Actual Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
55
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
MIP awards 2014
Element A
Plan accounts Martyn Coffey Jack Clarke Ian Burrell David Sarti
2014 contribution (% of salary earned) 149.0 149.0 149.0 149.0
Value £596,100 £85,689 £365,397 £353,040
2014 element released (Note a) £(298,050) £(42,845) £(182,699) £(353,040)
Closing balance (deferred into shares) £298,050 £42,844 £182,698 –
Number of shares represented by closing balance (Note b) 130,723 18,791 80,130 –
Element B
Martyn Coffey Jack Clarke Ian Burrell David Sarti
Number of shares awarded 174,298 100,221 17,644 –
Percentage of salary (Note c) 99.35 99.35 99.35 –
Value £397,400 £228,505 £40,229 –
EPS forfeiture threshold (Note d) 5.6p 5.6p 5.6p –
Notes: 
(a)  50 per cent of the earned Element A award is released to the participant as annual bonus: the remaining 50 per cent is deferred into the participant's MIP account and converted into shares. In the second and each 
subsequent year of the MIP prior to the final year, 50 per cent of the balance in the MIP account is released. David Sarti and Ian Burrell will receive the full amount of their Element A plan account as "good leavers" .
(b) Calculated by reference to the mid market average value for the 30 day period ending on 31 December 2014 (228 pence).
(c)  No Element B award was made to David Sarti, in view of his retirement on 31 December 2014. The Element B award for Ian Burrell takes account of his expected retirement on 30 June 2015 and is 
calculated by reference to the number of days service in the 3 year holding period up to his termination date (estimated number of Element B shares as at 30 June 2015 is 17,644).
(d)  If the actual EPS falls below the forfeiture threshold over the three years before vesting, 50% of the balance of the award is forfeited. Once Element B shares have vested, they must normally be held 
for a further 2 years. Element B shares lapse on cessation of employment except in “good leaver” circumstances.
PIP awards
Balances in the PIP carried over from 2013 will be released following announcement of the 2014 Results, as the forfeiture threshold 
(EPS of 5.6 pence) was not breached.
Plan accounts Martyn Coffey Jack Clarke Ian Burrell David Sarti
Balance as at 1 January 2014 £79,309 – £360,324 £360,324
2014 dividend added £2,475 – £11,244 £11,244
Impact of 2014 share price increase £25,986 – £118,064 £118,064
Value £107,770 – £489,632 £489,632
Shares released to participants (calculated by reference to the year end 
share price of 234 pence) 46,055 – 209,244 209,244
Balance as at 1 January 2015 – – – –
2005 LTIP 
A proportion of Performance Share Awards granted in 2012 under the 2005 L TIP have vested following the announcement of the 2014 annual results. Vesting 
of these awards was dependent on performance over the 3 financial years ended 31 December 2012, 2013 and 2014 and on continued employment. 
Performance shares
% of % of 2012
Performance measurement award vesting* Actual awards vesting 
EPS
Growth of RPI +9%
0% EPS changed
 from 5.65p to 10.13p
100% of EPS target
Growth of RPI +21% 50% Growth of RPI +71.9% 
Operating Cash Flow ("OCF")
Growth of RPI +9%
0% OCF changed from £87.9m 
to £103.0m
7.3% of OCF target 
Growth of RPI +21% 50% Growth of RPI +9.9% 
* Straight line vesting between points.
Notes: 
(a) Performance Shares take the form of nil-cost options. 
(b)  EPS is measured using International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRSs") based on the audited results of the Company and subject to the discretion of the Committee with regard to one off items. Operating Cash Flow 
("OCF") growth is calculated by taking the aggregate OCF for the 3 financial years preceding the year of grant of the award and comparing it with the aggregate OCF for the 3 years following the date of grant.
(c)  In determining the percentage of awards vesting the Committee exercised its discretion as provided in the rules of the L TIP . The original performance condition for OCR had a step in vesting once threshold performance 
had been met, with 12.5 per cent of this element of the L TIP award vesting for threshold performance. The Committee decided in line with current best practice to remove this step and start threshold vesting at 0 per cent 
for OCR growth of RPI +9 per cent, rather than 12.5 per cent. The impact of this change has been to reduce the level of vesting under this element of the L TIP award for participants at threshold levels of performance. Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
56
2005 LTIP awards made in 2014 (Audited)
Face value Number of Measurement Performance
Executive Director Basis of award £'000 shares period conditions
Martyn Coffey 100% of salary 400 222,124 3 years EPS growth
OCF growth
Jack Clarke
(Note a)
100% of salary 230 115,676 3 years EPS growth
OCF growth
Ian Burrell 100% of salary 245 136,157 3 years EPS growth
OCF growth
David Sarti 100% of salary 237 131,553 3 years EPS growth
OCF growth
Notes:
(a) Exceptional award granted on appointment.
(b) The number of Performance Shares is calculated based on the average mid-market closing price over the 3 days immediately preceding the date of grant.
(c) The performance conditions attached to 2014 awards are:
EPS growth (75%):
 — 75% or less = 0%
 — 100% = 50% vesting
 — 125% = 100% vesting
OCF growth (25%)
 — 5% = 0%
 — 10% = 50%
 — 15% = 100%
Straight line vesting between points. 
(d)  The 2005 LTIP Rules contain provisions relating to the lapse of awards on termination (other than as a good leaver). Amounts may be withheld in the event of financial misstatement in any year 
of the measurement period (2014-2016).
2005 LTIP awards: previous awards outstanding as at 31 December 2014
Potential
level of
vesting of
2013
awards
(Note a)
Potential
level of
vesting of
2014
awards
(Note b)
   
 Number of Performance
Shares awarded
2013 target EPS (50%) and
OCF (50%) growth
2014 target EPS (75%) and
OCF (25%) growth
Actual
2013
awards
Actual
2014
awards Executive Director 2014 2013
Ian Burrell 136,157 212,943
 
RPI + 9%
to 21%
EPS
growth =
83.5%
EPS
100%
EPS
growth
= 80.2%
EPS
100%
 
David Sarti 131,553 212,943
 
OCF
growth
= 39.1% 
OCF 
100%
OCF
growth
= 193.2%
OCF
100%
 
Martyn Coffey 222,124 –
Jack Clarke 115,676 – 
Martyn Coffey – 243,412 Share
price in
range
200p to
250p
Share
price
 176.25p
0% Share
price
234p
68%
 
Notes:
(a) Estimate assumes RPI to be 4.3 per cent over first 2 years of vesting period.
(b) Estimate assumes RPI to be 1.6 per cent over first year of vesting period.
(c) All estimates are measured as at 31 December 2014.
(d)  The outstanding awards held by David Sarti will be pro-rated to his leaving date of 31 December 2014, and the outstanding awards held by Ian Burrell will be pro-rated to his expected leaving date 
of 30 June 2015. Details of the actual values likely to vest in respect of 2013 and 2014 awards are included in the notes to the Single Figure Remuneration table on page 51.
(e)  Each of Ian Burrell and David Sarti holds 228,288 2012 LTIP awards and are entitled to exercise their rights in respect of 122,511 shares each following announcement of the 2014 results. The balance 
of the 2012 LTIP awards will lapse. Neither Martyn Coffey nor Jack Clarke have 2012 Performance Share awards.
Annual Remuneration Report continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
57
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Pension benefits (audited)
Executive Directors are eligible for membership of the defined contribution section of the Marshalls plc Pension Scheme (the "Scheme"). 
Ian Burrell and David Sarti ceased to be members of the Scheme in 2013, having fixed their lifetime allowance, and in 2014 each received 
a monthly pension allowance equal to the monthly contribution that would otherwise have been paid by the Company to the Scheme. 
Neither Martyn Coffey nor Jack Clarke is a member of the Scheme. Each receives a monthly pension allowance equal to the contribution 
that the Company would otherwise have paid to the Scheme. Martyn Coffey received an annual fixed pension allowance of £75,000 in 2014. 
Jack Clarke received a pension allowance of 20 per cent of salary.
No Director is entitled to defined benefit pension under the Scheme. 
Single total figure of remuneration: Non‑ Executive Directors (audited)
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Company's incentive arrangements. Their fees are reviewed periodically and were last 
reviewed in October 2014. The Chairman's fees are set by the Committee and the Chief Executive; other Non-Executive Director fees are set by 
the Board as a whole. The Non-Executive Directors also received a fixed allowance for travel and accommodation associated with attendance 
at Board meetings, which is shown below as a grossed up taxable amount.
Board fee Committee fees Allowance Total
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Andrew Allner
Chairman and Chairman 
of Nomination Committee
133 129 – – 10 10 143 139
 
Alan Coppin
Senior Independent Director, Chairman 
of Remuneration Committee
Member of Audit and Nomination Committees
43 40 6 6 6 6 55 52
 
Mark Edwards
Chairman of Audit Committee
Member of Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees
42 40 6 6 6 6 54 52
 
Tim Pile
Member of Audit, Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees
42 40 – – 6 6 48 46
 
Total 260 249 12 12 28 28 300 289
The fees were increased by 3.5 per cent from 1 January 2014 in line with Executive Directors and other Group employees and Alan Coppin 
received an additional fee to recognise his role as the Senior Independent Director.
Payments to past Directors
Graham Holden retired from the Board on 10 October 2013 and his employment ceased on his agreed retirement date of 11 April 2014. 
Ian Burrell retired from the Board on 1 October 2014 and his employment is expected to cease on his agreed retirement date of 30 June 2015. 
David Sarti retired from the Board on 1 December 2014 and his employment ceased on his agreed retirement date of 31 December 2014.
The total amount paid to Graham Holden in respect of his salary, benefits and pension allowance between 1 January 2014 and his date 
of leaving is set out below. No bonus was payable to Graham Holden in respect of service during 2014.
The total amount paid to David Sarti in respect of his salary, benefits and pension allowance between 1 December 2014 (the date of his 
retirement as a Director) and 31 December 2014 is set out below.
Salary Taxable benefits Pension allowance Total Date of
Director £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 leaving
Graham Holden 117 3 35 155 11 April 2014
David Sarti 20 1 6 27 31 December 2014
Ian Burrell will continue to receive his current salary and benefits until the date of his retirement expected to be 30 June 2015.
  Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
58
Payments to past Directors continued
As “good leavers” on retirement, the Committee has made the following determinations in respect of incentive awards:
PIP
Graham Holden received his full PIP balance as at 11 April 2014 in the form of 749,786 shares, which were immediately repurchased at market value 
by the Marshalls plc Employee Benefit Trust.
Ian Burrell and David Sarti will each receive their full PIP balance as at 31 December 2014 in the form of shares following announcement of the 
2014 results, calculated in accordance with PIP Rules. The current value of their Plan accounts and the number of shares to be transferred to 
them are shown on page 55 and reflected in the single remuneration figure table on page 51.
2005 LTIP
Performance Share awards where the vesting period has not yet expired are pro-rated for the period from the date of grant to the actual date 
of cessation of employment and are subject to the proportionate satisfaction of the performance conditions on the date of cessation.
Graham Holden received 213,736 shares in respect of his 2012 and 2013 awards, representing his pro-rated entitlement at the date of leaving. 
The remaining balance of 479,555 performance shares awarded in 2012 and 2013 lapsed. He did not receive a 2014 award.
Under the 2013 and 2014 Performance Share awards held by Ian Burrell and David Sarti, the number of shares that vest based on their dates 
of cessation of employment and the level of satisfaction of the performance conditions at 31 December 2014 is set out below. In the case of 
Ian Burrell, these are estimates based on his anticipated retirement date of 30 June 2015.
2013 award 2014 award 
Director shares shares
Ian Burrell 177,160 67,831
David Sarti 141,962 43,811
2014 MIP
Ian Burrell will receive an award under Element A and Element B of the MIP . David Sarti will receive an award under Element A of the MIP , and 
will not be required to defer any part of his Element A award. He will not be entitled to an award under Element B of the MIP . The maximum 
award that could vest, based on the performance conditions at 31 December 2014, is as follows:
Element A Element B
Director £'000 £'000
Ian Burrell 365 40
David Sarti 353 –
Payments for loss of office
No payments for loss of office have been made or are due to be paid.
Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy in the following financial year (2015)
Executive Directors: 
Salary
The Committee approved a 2.9 per cent salary increase for Executive Directors effective from 1 January 2015, in line with inflation and increases 
for UK employees generally. There was no increase for retiring Directors. Jack Clarke's salary on appointment (1 October 2014) was £230,000.
1 January 2015 1 January 2014 Change 
Director £'000 £'000 %
Martyn Coffey 412 400 2.9
Jack Clarke 237 230 2.9
Ian Burrell 245 245 –
David Sarti – 237 N/A
Benefits and pension
Benefits continue on the same basis as in 2014. For 2015, the Committee has increased Martyn Coffey’s pension allowance to 20 per cent 
of salary in line with the Policy. 
Annual Remuneration Report continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
59
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Variable pay / incentives
Executive Directors will be granted performance awards under the MIP conditional upon achieving certain performance conditions in 2015. The 
Committee has discretion under the Remuneration Policy to change the weightings of performance criteria to align with its priorities, including 
measures relating to performance on ESG issues. Our strategic priorities for 2015 are focused on improving profit margins, growing our business 
and developing our brand, while also remaining innovative and operating sustainably with the highest standards of health, safety and social 
responsibility. The Committee believes that a combination of EPS and net debt are the most appropriate criteria for measuring achievement of our 
financial objectives and that the combination of financial and non-financial criteria avoids inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour. The 
weighting for the operation of 2015 awards under the MIP will be:
EPS  75%
Net debt  25%
Targets are set between a minimum (0 per cent) and maximum (100 per cent) range in each case, with on-target (budget) performance 
expected to deliver 70 per cent of maximum.
Additional non-financial performance conditions to reflect our focus on brand, customers and employees will apply:
 — customer service (must remain at or above 95 per cent); and
 — health and safety incidence (year-on-year improvement of 10 per cent).
There is a reduction of award value earned by 20 per cent if these additional conditions are not met. 
The Committee also considered whether to use an externally referenced measurement (for example, TSR) but, as explained in its consultations 
with shareholders during 2014, has concerns about the identification of a suitable comparator group, and reservations as to whether this is the 
most appropriate way to measure Company performance.
Element A awards have a forfeiture threshold set annually at the time of confirmation of the award. If this is breached, 50 per cent of the 
deferred balance in a participant's Element A MIP account is forfeited.
Element B awards have a long term financial underpin based on a minimum EPS threshold that must be maintained over the 3 years from the 
date of grant. If this is breached, 50 per cent of the Element B award is forfeited. Element B awards are granted after the end of the financial 
period by reference to which they have been earned and the underpin is set at the time of grant.
The measurement period under the MIP by reference to which these targets must be met will be the full financial year ending 31 December 2015. 
It is the view of the Committee that the targets for the MIP are commercially sensitive as they are primarily related to budgeted future profit 
and debt levels in the Company and therefore their disclosure in advance is not in the interests of the Company or shareholders. The Committee 
will, however, provide full retrospective disclosure to enable shareholders to judge the level of award provided against the targets set.
Non‑ Executive Directors 
The Board approved an increase in the fee by 2.9 per cent from 1 January 2015, in line with Executive Directors and employees. In view of the 
change in the frequency and location of Board meetings since the previous policy was determined, the annual travel and expenses allowance 
previously paid monthly to Non-Executive Directors ceased with effect from 1 January 2015 and Non-Executive Directors will instead reclaim 
business expenses incurred in the performance of their duties retrospectively against duly presented invoices.
1 January 2015 1 January 2014 Percentage
Director £'000 £'000 increase
Andrew Allner (Chairman) 137.1 133.3 2.9
Alan Coppin (SID) 50.4 49.0 2.9
Mark Edwards 49.4 48.0 2.9
Tim Pile 42.8 41.6 2.9 Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
60
Shareholdings of Directors (audited)
In order that their interests are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain a meaningful 
shareholding in the Company. There are no minimum holding requirements for Non-Executive Directors, but they would usually be expected 
to hold some shares in the Company.
The minimum shareholding requirements for Executive Directors are as follows:
Percentage Timescale to 
Executive Director of salary achieve/achieved
Martyn Coffey 200% Within 5 years of appointment
Jack Clarke 100% Within 5 years of appointment
Ian Burrell 100% Yes
David Sarti 100% Yes
Directors' shareholdings and share interests
The following table sets out, in respect of each of the Directors:
 — the number of shares the Director holds unconditionally;
 — the number of deferred and conditional shares held under the incentive schemes that will vest following the 2014 results; and
 — the number of shares subject to unvested incentive awards.
Shares exercisable/ Deferred and contingent Total interests
vesting on 2014 results Deferred shares share interests in shares (including
Shareholding requirement Beneficially owned (Note b) (Note c) (Note d) contingent interests)
Number
of shares
% of required Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of
Director salary (Note a) shares held shares shares shares shares
Martyn Coffey 200 341,880 641 46,055 87,149 683,408 817,253
Jack Clarke 100 98,291 – – 50,111 184,578 234,689
Ian Burrell 100 104,783 298,664 331,755 8,822 333,944 973,185
David Sarti 100 101,239 176,719 517,528 – – 694,247
Non‑ Executive
Andrew Allner – – 41,329 – – – 41,329
Alan Coppin – – 10,000 – – – 10,000
Mark Edwards – – 78,000 – – – 78,000
Tim Pile – – 34,740 – – – 34,740
(a) The closing price of 234 pence per share on 31 December 2014 has been used to measure the number of shares required. 
(b)  Following announcement of the 2014 annual results, 100 per cent of the deferred PIP balance as at 31 December 2014, and 53.6 per cent of 2005 LTIP Performance Shares awarded in 2012 are 
expected to vest. The deferred PIP balance is settled in shares, and this column includes the total number of PIP shares and 2012 LTIP shares vesting. This column shows David Sarti's conditional 
interests having vested on a pro-rata basis as a "good leaver" by reference to his leaving date of 31 December 2014; any remaining balance has lapsed.
(c)  This column includes the 50 per cent proportion of share interests awarded in 2014 under Element B of the MIP in the form of nil cost options or conditional shares that may be exercised after the 
3-year deferral period (i.e in March 2018) but where vesting is only dependent on continuing employment throughout the 3 year deferral period with no other performance conditions.
(d)  This column includes outstanding conditional interests under the 2005 LTIP in the form of Performance Shares awarded in 2013 and 2014, and share interests awarded under the MIP (Element A 
deferred shares, and Element B deferred shares) that remain subject to a financial performance conditions as well as to continued employment over the relevant deferral period. 50 per cent of 
Element A awards and 100 per cent of Element B awards shown in this column may be forfeited if the financial condition is not satisfied. The conditional and deferred interests held by Ian Burrell 
are expected to vest on his leaving date of 30 June 2015 on a pro-rata basis, and his remaining balances under the LTIP will lapse.
(e) Share interests under Element A and Element B of the MIP are calculated by reference to the mid-market average value for the 30 day period ending on 31 December 2014 (228 pence). 
(f )  The table above includes the interests of "connected persons" as defined under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. 
Annual Remuneration Report continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
61
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
The Committee and its advisers
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee’s responsibilities include:
 — setting remuneration policy for Executive Directors;
 — determining specific remuneration packages for Executive Directors and for the Chairman;
 — operating the Company’s employee share incentive arrangements;
 — providing guidance on remuneration for senior employees who report to the CEO; and
 — considering the broader remuneration policies for Group employees below Board level.
The Board determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors. No Director plays a part in any decision about his own remuneration. 
Alan Coppin, Mark Edwards and Tim Pile are all independent Non-Executive Directors within the definition of the Code, and Andrew Allner satisfied 
the independence condition on his appointment as Non-Executive Chairman in 2010. None of them have any personal financial interest (other 
than as shareholders) in matters to be decided, nor do they have any conflicts of interest from cross-directorships or any day-to-day involvement 
in running the business.
External advisers
The Company appointed external remuneration advisers, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP ("PwC"), in 2010 following a competitive tender process. 
PwC attends meetings of the Committee by invitation. The Chief Executive attends as appropriate but may not participate in discussions about 
his own remuneration. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and attends Committee meetings.
PwC’s fees are agreed by the Remuneration Committee according to the work performed. The terms of its engagement are available on 
request from the Company Secretary. PwC also provided advice to the Company during the year in relation to corporate tax matters. The 
Committee is satisfied that the advice from PwC is independent based on the separation of the team advising the Committee from any other 
work undertaken by PwC and the fact that PwC is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants' Group's Code of Conduct. PwC’s work relating 
to Executive remuneration during 2014 is summarised below. 
Nature of work 
 — supporting shareholder consultation in relation to the new MIP;
 — assistance in the preparation of the Remuneration Committee Report;
 — benchmarking of total remuneration in respect of the Company and its comparator group; 
 — advice on the remuneration package for the Finance Director role;
 — attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings to provide advice when required; and
 — general advice on remuneration trends, regulations and best practice.
The amount paid to PwC in respect of remuneration advice received during 2014 was £65,000.
Committee Terms of Reference 
www.marshalls.co.uk Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
62
Audit Committee Report
Chairman's introduction
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to report to you on the Audit Committee’s activities 
and objectives during 2014. This report, which is part of the 
Directors' Report, explains how the Audit Committee has 
discharged its responsibilities during 2014, and reflects the 
recent changes to audit reporting under the Code. I hope you 
find it useful and informative.
The role of the Audit Committee is to oversee financial reporting 
and to review the ongoing effectiveness of the Group's internal 
controls. The Committee provides assurance on the Group's risk 
management processes and assesses information received by 
external audit and the internal audit function. 
One key area of focus during the year has been the 
tender of the Group’s statutory audit work. Mindful of the 
recommendations of the Code in relation to rotation and 
audit tender, and of the Competition Commission Order 
relating to the statutory audit market, the Committee 
commenced a tender process in August 2014, concluding 
with the recommendation that Deloitte LLP be appointed as 
statutory auditor in place of KPMG LLP . This appointment will 
take effect following completion of the 2014 audit by KPMG LLP , 
and a resolution to approve the appointment of Deloitte LLP as 
statutory auditor will be submitted to a shareholder vote at our 
AGM in May 2015. 
The Committee has reviewed the Group's Financial Statements 
contained in this Annual Report and following its review is 
satisfied that the Committee has provided assurance to this effect 
to the Board that they present a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Group's position and prospects.
Mark Edwards
Audit Committee Chairman
Role and responsibilities
The key responsibilities of the Committee are:
 — to keep under review the Group’s financial and other systems 
and controls and financial reporting procedures;
 — to plan and scope the annual audit and half-yearly audit review, 
receive audit reports and review financial statements, taking 
account of accounting policies adopted and applicable 
reporting requirements;
 — to review the Annual Report and Financial Statements and 
advise the Board on whether they give a fair, balanced and 
understandable explanation of the Company’s business and 
performance over the relevant period;
 — to conduct a detailed review of internal controls and the internal 
audit process and report findings at least twice yearly to the Board;
 — to review and update the Company’s Risk Register;
 — to review external auditor independence and audit and non-audit 
fees and make recommendations regarding audit tender and the 
appointment and remuneration of the auditor; and
 — to review the Anti-Bribery Code and procedures, the Serious 
Concerns Policy and other policies relevant to financial security, 
compliance and business ethics.
The Audit Committee is the body appointed by the Board with 
responsibility for carrying out the functions required by the Listing 
Rules DTR 7.1.3R.
The Chairman of the Committee is a Chartered Accountant and the 
Board is satisfied he has recent and relevant financial experience as 
required by the Code. Other members also have relevant financial 
experience. Their attendance at meetings is shown on page 38. 
During the year, the Audit Committee held 4 formal meetings 
and there were also meetings between the Audit Chairman, 
the Finance Director and the external auditor.
The Committee’s performance was evaluated during 2014 as part of 
the Board evaluation process described in the Corporate Governance 
section of this Annual Report (pages 34 to 40). 
Audit Committee members
 — Mark Edwards
 — Alan Coppin 
 — Tim Pile
Committee Terms of Reference 
www.marshalls.co.uk Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
63
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Highlights of 2014
When reviewing the annual and half-yearly results, the Committee 
exercises its judgement in relation to matters drawn to its attention 
by the Finance Director from the internal audit function, the Risk 
Committee and the Group’s external auditor. The Committee meets 
the auditor independently of management, giving the opportunity to 
ensure that it has full visibility of matters that have been the subject 
of particular discussions. The Committee also reports to the Board in 
relation to the going concern statement and whether the accounts 
are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Group has chosen to adopt FRS 101 early and has applied this 
standard to the 2014 Accounts.
The areas for particular focus in the course of the 2014 audit are 
summarised below.
Inventory provisioning
The Committee critically reviewed the carrying value of the Group's 
finished goods inventory, particularly with regard to management's 
assessment of the appropriate level of provisioning against 
inventory obsolescence. 
The gross levels of finished goods inventory held and the provisions 
recorded against obsolescence were presented to the Committee. 
This analysis was reviewed in the context of current trading and 
forecast for the next financial year. In addition, the external auditor 
presented its findings with regard to the key audit testing over inventory 
valuation. The Committee concurred with management's assessment 
of the carrying value of Group inventories, and noted that there was 
considerable management focus on reduction in finished goods 
inventory during 2014.
IFRS 8 "Segment Reporting"
The 2014 Accounts take account of a change in management reporting 
and the Directors have concluded that the detailed requirements of 
IFRS 8 now support the reporting of the Group's Landscape Products 
business as a reportable segment. This includes the UK operations of 
the Marshalls Landscape Products hard landscaping business servicing 
both the UK Domestic and the UK Public Sector and Commercial 
end markets.
Impairment testing
The Committee considered and critically reviewed the assumptions 
used in management's impairment calculations. On the basis of this 
review, the Committee agreed with management that no impairment 
to goodwill and other intangible assets was necessary. In relation to 
Marshalls NV, which forms part of International, there has been focus 
on impairment testing associated with the cessation of standard 
block paving manufacture at the Arendonk site. The Committee is 
satisfied that the asset values in Marshalls NV in the accounts for 2014 
are supported and that the closure of the Arendonk operations does 
not cause an impairment concern.
Other matters
Other matters considered by the Audit Committee included taxation, 
pensions and share-based expenses.
External audit, auditor independence and objectivity
The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making a 
recommendation to the Board on the appointment, re-appointment 
and removal of the external auditor. It keeps under review the scope 
and results of the audit, its cost-effectiveness and the independence 
and objectivity of the auditor. The Group’s current auditor, KPMG LLP , 
has processes in place designed to maintain independence, including 
regular rotation of the audit partner. The current KPMG audit 
engagement partner, Chris Hearld, was due to rotate after the 2014 
accounts. Recognising that KPMG LLP (and their predecessors) have 
provided audit services to the Group since 1986, this provided a 
sensible opportunity for the external audit contract to be tendered, 
as indicated in our 2013 Annual Report, to meet regulatory guidelines 
and best practice in relation to the maximum periods for external 
auditor appointments and the protection of auditor independence. 
The Company has no contractual commitment obliging it to select 
any particular audit firm.
The Committee led the tender process, setting clear and robust 
objective and qualitative criteria incorporated into a tender brief for 
the potential candidate firms, which was issued in August 2014. This 
was followed by presentations from a shortlist of preferred candidates 
and meetings with the Chair of the Committee, the Chairman, Executive 
Directors and senior members of our Group finance function. The 
Committee made a recommendation to the Board in December, and 
the decision was taken to appoint Deloitte LLP as statutory auditor in 
place of KPMG LLP , subject to formal approval at the 2015 AGM. KPMG 
LLP will complete the audit of the Group and its subsidiaries for 2014, 
and the Committee considers that KPMG LLP is independent and 
objective for this purpose. No matters have been drawn to the attention 
of the Committee by KPMG LLP in relation to the 2014 audit or the 
cessation of their appointment as auditor. 
The Committee has adopted policies to safeguard the independence 
of its external auditor. Any work awarded to the external auditor with 
a value of more than £5,000 in aggregate in any financial year, other 
than audit and tax compliance, requires the specific approval of the 
Committee. Where the Committee perceives that the independence 
of the auditor could be compromised, the work will not be awarded 
to it. Details of amounts paid to the external auditor for audit and 
non-audit services in 2014 are analysed in Note 3 on page 89, with 
the amount paid for non-audit work representing approximately 
£4,000, or 2.4 per cent of total fees paid to the external auditor in 
2014. This was for services associated with corporate tax compliance 
procedures. The aggregate amount paid to other firms of accountants 
for non-audit services in the same period was £195,000 (2013: £267,000).
Risk management
The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the system 
of risk management and control, and for ensuring that it meets the 
necessary standards. The Group’s risk management and internal 
control systems are subject to a full formal review by the Audit 
Committee twice a year. They are also subject to a regular rolling 
programme of review, the results of which are periodically reported 
to the Board. The Group’s Risk Committee, comprising the Executive 
Directors and members of senior management with executive 
accountability for particular risk areas, meets twice yearly to identify,  Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
64
Audit Committee Report continued
Risk management continued
evaluate and consider steps to manage any material risks which 
might threaten the Group’s business objectives. Between formal 
meetings of the Risk Committee, there are regular risk reviews by the 
relevant senior managers which are reported to the Risk Committee. 
The Group maintains a written Risk Register that identifies the Group’s 
key risk areas, the probability of these risks occurring and the impact 
they would have, giving each risk a relative weighting reflecting its 
potential impact on the Group. Against each such risk, the controls 
that exist to manage and, where possible, minimise or eliminate those 
risks are also listed. The Risk Register helps to identify areas for action, 
and uses programmes including independent audit assessments that 
are designed to test the effectiveness of the Group’s risk control 
systems. Information in relation to the management of risks and any 
changes to key risks or weighting is regularly reported to the Board, 
and the Risk Register is updated to reflect changes in circumstances 
or priorities. To the extent that any failings or weaknesses are identified 
during the review process, appropriate measures are taken to 
remedy these. 
In addition to the major risk review process, the Group has an 
established internal control framework, the key features of which 
include clearly defined reporting lines and authorisation procedures 
and a comprehensive budget and monthly reporting system. The 
internal control framework governs the internal financial reporting 
process of the business, with checks and balances built into the 
system that are designed to reduce the likelihood of material error 
or fraud. 
The Audit Committee has carried out an assessment of the effectiveness 
of the Group’s risk management and internal control system, covering 
all material controls including its financial, operational and compliance 
controls and risk management systems for the year to 31 December 2014. 
Internal controls and audit
The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal 
controls on an ongoing basis. The process of reviewing and reporting 
on the internal control system is carried out by external accountants 
instructed by the Finance Director who are independent from the 
Company’s external auditor and have no other connection with the 
Group. Their work includes periodic site visits and regular internal 
audit assignments of a financial and systems nature, including checks 
against previously completed self-assessment questionnaires. The 
results are reported to the Audit Committee. 
The Company operates a self certification internal control process to 
support the internal audit process throughout the year. The internal 
audit programme includes both regular audit checks and assignments 
to look at areas of critical importance. These assignments form part 
of a much wider programme of independently audited aspects of the 
Group’s operations. Any areas of weakness that are identified through 
this process prompt a detailed action plan and a follow up audit 
check to establish that actions have been completed. Instances of 
fraud or attempted fraud (if any) and preventative action plans are 
also reported to the Committee and recorded in a Fraud Register.
The Committee is pleased to report that no significant failings or 
weaknesses were identified during the year, and there were no losses 
identified as a result of fraud.
The Committee has reviewed the current process and has concluded 
that it remains an effective means of managing the internal audit 
function. The Committee will be considering how this process can 
be developed further during 2015.
Whistleblowing and bribery
The Audit Committee monitors any reported incidents under 
the Serious Concerns Policy (our whistle-blowing policy) which 
is available to all employees. This policy is displayed on operating 
site notice boards and on the Company’s intranet, and sets out the 
procedure for employees to raise legitimate concerns about any 
wrong-doing without fear of criticism, discrimination or reprisal. 
The Serious Concerns Policy was reviewed during the year and 
the Committee was satisfied that arrangements are in place for 
the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters 
and for appropriate follow-up action. There were no matters raised 
under the Serious Concerns Policy in 2014. 
The Audit Committee also takes responsibility for reviewing the policies 
and procedures adopted by the Company to prevent bribery. The 
Company is committed to a zero-tolerance position with regard to 
bribery, made explicit through its Anti-Bribery Code and supporting 
guidance for its employees, agents and contractors on hospitality 
and gifts. The policy and procedures are published on the Company 
website and displayed on operating site notice boards. Employees 
are offered online training to reinforce the Anti-Bribery Code and 
procedures and, to date, 341 employees in decision-making roles with 
potential exposure to bribery risk have completed the training, which 
represents 100 per cent of target. There is a maintained register of 
employee interests, and a gifts and hospitality record. The internal audit 
review programme included a review of the adequacy of the Company’s 
procedures in relation to the prevention of bribery, and recommendations 
from the internal audit process have been implemented in 2014, including 
the establishment of the Fraud Register.
The Report of the Audit Committee has been approved by the Board 
and signed on its behalf by:
Mark Edwards
Chairman of the Audit Committee
6 March 2015 Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
65
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Directors' Report – Other Regulatory Information
The information required by the Listing Rules (DTR 4.1.8R) is contained 
in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report. Marshalls plc is 
registered with company number 5100353.
The Directors of the Company are listed on pages 32 and 33. 
Political donations: The Group made no donations during the year 
to any political party or political organisation or to any independent 
election candidate, whether in the European Union or elsewhere 
(2013: nil).
Risk management: The Group’s risk management objectives, 
its approach to managing risk generally and its use of financial 
instruments are described in the Strategic Report on pages 18 to 20. 
Further details of the Group's risk management in relation to financial 
risks and its use of financial instruments to mitigate such risks are set 
out in note 18 on pages 94 and 95.
Greenhouse gas emissions: The Group’s CO
2
 (greenhouse gas) 
emissions in 2014 are disclosed in the Strategic Report on 
pages 22 and 23.
Employees: The Company’s policies in relation to disabled 
employees and employee involvement and communication are 
explained in the Strategic Report on pages 21 and 22.
Corporate governance: Details of how the Group complies with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code are set out on pages 34 to 40.
Post‑ balance sheet events of importance since 31 December 
2014: There have been no important events affecting the Group 
since the end of the financial year. Details of developments since 
the financial year end 31 December 2014 are included in the 
Strategic Report on pages 25 to 30.
Research and development: Activity and likely future 
developments for the business are described in the Strategic Report 
on pages 14 and 15.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.00 pence (2013: 3.50 
pence) per share which, together with the interim dividend of 2.00 pence 
(2013: 1.75 pence) per share, makes a combined dividend of 6.00 pence 
(2013: 5.25 pence) per share. Payment of the final dividend, if approved 
at the Annual General Meeting, will be made on 3 July 2015 to 
shareholders registered at the close of business on 5 June 2015. 
The ex-dividend date will be 4 June 2015.
The dividend paid in the year to 31 December 2014 and disclosed in 
the Consolidated Income Statement is 5.50 pence (2013: 5.25 pence) 
per share, being the previous year's final dividend of 3.50 pence 
(2013: 3.50 pence) per share and the interim dividend of 2.00 pence 
(2013: 1.75 pence) per share in respect of the year ended 
31 December 2014 and these were paid on 4 July 2014 and 
5 December 2014 respectively.
Share capital and authority to purchase shares
The Company’s share capital at 1 January 2015 was 199,378,755 
Ordinary Shares of 25 pence. There has been no change between 
31 December 2014 and 6 March 2015. Details of the share capital 
are set out in Note 21 on page 106. 
On 26 March 2014, 2,425,000 Ordinary Shares held as Treasury Shares 
were transferred in connection with the vesting of awards under the 
Company's employee share schemes, with 985,905 being transferred 
to participants and the balance of 1,439,095 being transferred to the 
Marshalls plc Employee Benefit Trust (the “EBT”) for the purposes of 
satisfying future awards that may vest under such schemes. The 
purchase of shares by the EBT was funded by a loan facility from the 
Company made under the provisions of the Companies Act 1986 
relating to financial assistance. The Ordinary Shares of the Company 
carry equal rights to dividends, voting and return of capital on the 
winding up of the Company, as set out in the Company’s Articles of 
Association. There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in 
the Company and there are no restrictions on any voting rights or 
deadlines, other than those prescribed by law, nor is the Company 
aware of any arrangement between holders of its shares which may 
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights, nor 
any arrangement whereby a shareholder has waived or agreed to 
waive dividends (other than the EBT).
The EBT may purchase shares in the Company from time to 
time to satisfy awards granted to Directors and Senior Executives 
subject to the achievement of performance targets under the LTIP . 
At 31 December 2014 the EBT held 3,181,327 ordinary shares in the 
Company (2013: 1,091,269 shares) in respect of future incentive 
awards under the Company's employee share schemes. Details of 
outstanding awards are set out in Note 19 on pages 99 to 104. The 
EBT has waived its right to receive dividends on shares that it holds 
beneficially in respect of future awards. The Trustee of the EBT 
exercises any voting rights on such shares in accordance with the 
Directors’ recommendations.
UK-based employees of the Group with more than 6 months' 
service may participate in the Marshalls plc Share Purchase Plan. 
Employees purchase Ordinary Shares in the Company with pre-tax 
salary. The shares are purchased in the market and then held in trust 
by Yorkshire Building Society. Employees receive dividends on these 
shares and may give voting instructions to the Trustee. 
At the Annual General Meeting in May 2014 shareholders gave 
authority to the Directors to purchase up to 29,523,367 shares 
representing approximately 14.99 per cent of the Company’s 
issued share capital in the Company in the market during the 
period expiring at the next Annual General Meeting at a price 
to be determined within certain limits. No Ordinary Shares 
in the Company were purchased during the year or between 
31 December 2014 and 6 March 2015 under this authority, which 
will expire at the Annual General Meeting in May 2015. The Directors 
will seek to renew the authority at that meeting. Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
66
Contracts of significance and related parties
There were no contracts of significance between any member 
of the Group and (a) any undertaking in which a Director has a 
material interest, or (b) a controlling shareholder (other than 
between members of the Group). There have been no related 
party transactions between any member of the Group and a 
related party since the publication of the last Annual Report.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association give powers to the Board to 
appoint Directors. Newly appointed Directors are required to retire 
and submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at the first 
Annual General Meeting following their appointment. 
The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company 
subject to the provisions of relevant laws and the Company’s 
Memorandum and Articles of Association. These include specific 
provisions and restrictions regarding the Company’s power to 
borrow money. Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of 
shares are included in the Articles of Association and such authorities 
are renewed by shareholders each year at the Annual General Meeting.
The Articles of Association may be amended by Special Resolution 
of the shareholders.
Directors’ indemnities are referenced on page 37 of the Corporate 
Governance section.
Directors’ interests
Details of Directors’ remuneration, interests in the share capital 
(or derivatives or other financial instruments relating to those shares) 
of the Company and of their share-based payment awards are 
contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 61. No 
change in the interests of the Directors has been notified between 
31 December 2014 and the date of this Report.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 6 March 2015, the Company had been notified, in accordance with DTR Rule 5, of the following disclosable interests of 3 per cent or more 
in its voting rights:
As at As at
6 March 31 December
 2015 2014
% %
Majedie Asset Management 9.62 9.30
Standard Life Investments 5.75 5.32
JO Hambro Capital Management 5.00 4.16
Unicorn Asset Management 4.73 4.73
Royal London Asset Management 4.27 4.13
M&G Investment Management 3.87 3.88
Henderson Global Investors 3.63 3.65
BlackRock 3.54 3.59
The Directors' Report, comprising the Strategic Report, the Corporate Governance Report and the Reports of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees, have been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Cathy Baxandall
Group Company Secretary
6 March 2015
Directors' Report – Other Regulatory Information continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
67
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Independent Auditor's Report
to the members of Marshalls plc only
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1 Our opinion on the Financial Statements is 
unmodified 
We have audited the Financial Statements of Marshalls plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 70 to 118. In our opinion: 
 — the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as 
at 31 December 2014 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended; 
 — the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the European Union; 
 — the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, 
including FRS 101 "Reduced Disclosure Framework"; and
 — the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, 
as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. 
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Financial Statements the 
risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our 
audit were as follows:
Recoverable value of finished goods inventory (balance sheet 
value £54.1 million)
Refer to page 63 (Report of the Audit Committee), page 80 
(accounting policy) and pages 92 and 108 (financial disclosure).
The risk
As described in Note 1(j), the Directors record inventory at the lower 
of cost and net realisable value. The Group holds a large amount of 
inventories in order to meet customer demand. The non-perishable 
nature of the inventories, the business model of production across 
multiple locations and the wide range of product lines contribute 
to a high inventory holding. Despite the significant improvement 
in trading during 2014 there is still a risk that inventory lines which 
have been held for a significant period of time could have a reduced 
recoverable value as management may have to significantly discount 
the products in order to sell them. Therefore this is considered a key 
audit risk. 
Our response
Our audit procedures included, among others, the use of data analysis 
techniques to compare on a product-by-product basis, inventory on 
hand at the year end and respective sales history in order to build 
independently a profile of inventory ageing and assess the length of 
time expected to take the inventory to sell. We then further analysed 
any inventory lines which are slow moving and considered their 
realisable value in the context of recent trading performance and 
the provisions held.
We also assessed the overall level of inventory provisions made by 
the Directors across all products as a whole based on our knowledge 
of recent margins achieved by the Group across its product range. 
In order to assess the accuracy of management’s previous estimates 
we analysed the throughput of inventory previously identified as 
slow moving and reviewed the movement in the level of inventory 
provisions from prior periods and the level of inventory write-offs 
arising on sale. We also considered whether disclosures about the 
carrying value of inventory and write-downs made during the year 
met the requirements of the accounting standards.
Carrying value of goodwill
We continue to perform audit procedures over the risk of the carrying 
value of goodwill. However, following significant improvement in the 
Group's actual and forecast funding performance and the associated 
increase in market capitalisation, we have not assessed this as one of 
the risks that had the greatest effect on our audit and, therefore, it is 
not separately identified in our report this year.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the 
scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was 
set at £1.3 million. This has been determined with reference to a 
benchmark of Group profit before tax of £22.4 million (of which it 
represents 5.8 per cent). 
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected 
misstatements exceeding £65,000 for income statement items in 
addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting 
on qualitative grounds. 
The Group audit team performed the audit of all the components 
scoped in for Group reporting purposes as if they comprised a single 
aggregated set of financial information. The audit was performed 
using the materiality level set out above and covered 95 per cent 
of total Group revenue, 91 per cent of the total profits and losses 
that made up Group profit before tax and 94 per cent of total 
Group assets.
For the one remaining component, we performed analysis at Group 
level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks 
of material misstatements within this component. Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
68
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion: 
 — the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and 
 — the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements 
are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements; and 
 — the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement 
set out on pages 34 to 40 with respect to internal control and 
risk management systems in relation to financial reporting 
processes and about share capital structures is consistent 
with the Financial Statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters 
on which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based 
on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified 
other information in the Annual Report that contains a material 
inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Financial Statements, 
a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
 — we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ 
Statement that they consider that the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy; or
 — the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately 
address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
 — adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
 — the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
 — certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or 
 — we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or
 — a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared 
by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 — the Directors’ Statement, set out on page 42, in relation to 
going concern; and
 — the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 32 to 40 relating 
to the Company’s compliance with the 10 provisions of the 2012 
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review. 
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities. 
Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on pages 41 and 42, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. A description of the scope of an audit of 
Financial Statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made 
solely to the Company’s members as a body and is subject to 
important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, 
published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, 
which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should 
be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, 
the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Chris Hearld (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
1 The Embankment, Neville Street, Leeds, LS1 4DW 
6 March 2015
Independent Auditor's Report continued
to the members of Marshalls plc only Marshalls plc 
Annual report and accounts 2014
69
Financial Statements
70 Consolidated Income Statement
71  C onsolidat ed Stat ement 
of Comprehensive Income
72 Consolidated Balance Sheet
73  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
74  Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity
76  Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
109  Parent Company Statement 
of Comprehensive Income
110  Parent Company Statement of Changes 
in Equity
112  Company Balance Sheet
113  Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements
119  Financial History – Consolidated Group
Shareholder Information
121 Shareholder Information
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
69
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
70
2014 2013
Notes £'000 £'000
Revenue 2 358,516 307,390
Net operating costs 3 (333,211) (291,300)
Operating profit 2 25,305 16,090
Financial expenses 5 (2,889) (3,649)
Financial income 5 5 585
Profit before tax 2 22,421 13,026
Income tax expense 6 (4,198) (67)
Profit for the financial period before post tax profit of discontinued operations 18,223 12,959
Post tax profit of discontinued operations 7 – 503
Profit for the financial period 18,223 13,462
Profit for the period
Attributable to:
  Equity shareholders of the parent 19,857 14,096
  Non-controlling interests (1,634) (634)
18,223 13,462
Earnings per share (total operations):
Basic 8 10.13p 7.20p
Diluted 8 9.89p 7.07p
Earnings per share (continuing operations):
Basic 8 10.13p 6.94p
Diluted 8 9.89p 6.82p
Dividend:
Pence per share 9 5.50p 5.25p
Dividends declared 9 10,791 10,292
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2014 Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
71
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
2014 2013
£’000 £’000
Profit for the financial period 18,223 13,462
Other comprehensive income / (expense)
Items that will not be reclassified to the Income Statement:
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability 3,244 (18,735)
Deferred tax arising (649) 3,747
Deferred tax on share-based payments 460 176
Corporation tax on share-based payments 332 –
Total items that will not be reclassified to the Income Statement 3,387 (14,812)
Items that are or may in the future be reclassified to the Income Statement:
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (3,984) 2,787
Fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to the Income Statement 1,076 (1,447)
Deferred tax arising 582 (286)
Impact of the change in rate of deferred taxation – 275
Foreign currency translation differences – foreign operations (75) (51)
Foreign currency translation differences – non-controlling interests (186) 45
Total items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to the Income Statement (2,587) 1,323
Other comprehensive income / (expense) for period, net of income tax 800 (13,489)
Total comprehensive income / (expense) for the period 19,023 (27)
Attributable to:
  Equity shareholders of the parent 20,843 562
  Non-controlling interests (1,820) (589)
19,023 (27)
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
72
2014 2013
Notes £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 149,745 154,721
Intangible assets 11 40,581 41,071
Investment in associates 12 782 664
Employee benefits 19 3,449 –
Deferred taxation assets 20 1,394 1,626
195,951 198,082
Current assets
Inventories 13 67,323 70,807
Trade and other receivables 14 32,254 32,373
Cash and cash equivalents 15 20,320 17,652
119,897 120,832
Total assets 315,848 318,914
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 16 63,912 65,882
Corporation tax 4,276 4,802
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 17 85 3,453
68,273 74,137
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 17 50,715 49,768
Employee benefits 19 – 4,347
Deferred taxation liabilities 20 14,966 15,230
65,681 69,345
Total liabilities 133,954 143,482
Net assets 181,894 175,432
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to equity shareholders of the parent
Called-up share capital 21 49,845 49,845
Share premium account 22,695 22,695
Own shares (6,689) (9,512)
Capital redemption reserve 75,394 75,394
Consolidation reserve (213,067) (213,067)
Hedging reserve (2,488) (162)
Retained earnings 254,729 246,944
Equity attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 180,419 172,137
Non-controlling interests 22 1,475 3,295
Total equity 181,894 175,432
Approved at a Directors’ meeting on 6 March 2015.
On behalf of the Board:
M. Coffey   J.J. Clarke
Chief Executive   Finance Director
The Notes on pages 76 to 108 form part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Consolidated Balance Sheet
at 31 December 2014 Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
73
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the financial period 18,223 13,462
Income tax expense on continuing operations 4,198 67
Profit on disposal and closure of discontinued operations – (272)
Income tax expense on discontinued operations – 110
Profit before tax on total operations 22,421 13,367
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 11,982 13,455
Amortisation 1,231 938
Share of results of associates (118) (14)
Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment (360) (131)
Equity settled share-based expenses 2,496 2,353
Financial income and expenses (net) 2,884 3,064
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital and pension scheme contributions 40,536 33,032
Increase in trade and other receivables (159) (2,933)
Decrease in inventories 3,102 2,840
(Decrease) / increase in trade and other payables (2,656) 5,146
Operational restructuring costs paid (235) (870)
Pension scheme contributions (4,600) (5,600)
Cash generated from the operations 35,988 31,615
Financial expenses paid (2,840) (3,649)
Income tax paid (4,031) (842)
Net cash flow from operating activities 29,117 27,124
Cash flows from investing activities 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 3,077 175
Financial income received 5 9
Net proceeds from disposal of discontinued operations – 16,999
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (11,269) (5,462)
Acquisition of intangible assets (741) (596)
Net cash flow from investing activities (8,928) 11,125
Cash flows from financing activities
Payments to acquire own shares (4,266) –
Net increase / (decrease) in other debt and finance leases 269 (95)
Decrease in borrowings (2,690) (21,328)
Equity dividends paid (10,791) (10,292)
Net cash flow from financing activities (17,478) (31,715)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 2,711 6,534
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 17,652 11,101
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations (43) 17
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period 20,320 17,652
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
74
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Share Capital Non-
Share premium Own redemption Consolidation Hedging Retained controlling Total
capital account shares reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £’000
Current year
At 1 January 2014 49,845 22,695 (9,512) 75,394 (213,067) (162) 246,944 172,137 3,295 175,432
Total comprehensive  
income / (expense) for the period
Profit for the financial period 
attributable to equity shareholders 
of the parent – – – – – – 19,857 19,857 (1,634) 18,223
Other comprehensive  
income / (expense)
Foreign currency translation 
differences – – – – – – (75) (75) (186) (261)
Effective portion of changes 
in fair value of cash flow hedges – – – – – (3,984) – (3,984) – (3,984)
Net change in fair value of cash flow 
hedges transferred to the Income 
Statement – – – – – 1,076 – 1,076 – 1,076
Deferred tax arising – – – – – 582 – 582 – 582
Defined benefit plan actuarial gains – – – – – – 3,244 3,244 – 3,244
Deferred tax arising – – – – – – (649) (649) – (649)
Deferred tax on share-based 
payments – – – – – – 460 460 – 460
Corporation tax on share-based 
payments – – – – – – 332 332 – 332
Total other comprehensive 
income / (expense) – – – – – (2,326) 3,312 986 (186) 800
Total comprehensive income / 
(expense) for the period – – – – – (2,326) 23,169 20,843 (1,820) 19,023
Transactions with owners, 
recorded directly in equity
Contributions by and 
distributions to owners
Share-based expenses – – – – – – 2,496 2,496 – 2,496
Dividends to equity shareholders – – – – – – (10,791) (10,791) – (10,791)
Purchase of own shares – – (4,266) – – – – (4,266) – (4,266)
Disposal of own shares – – 7,089 – – – (7,089) – – –
Total contributions by and 
distributions to owners – – 2,823 – – – (15,384) (12,561) – (12,561)
Total transactions with owners of 
the Company – – 2,823 – – (2,326) 7,785 8,282 (1,820) 6,462
At 31 December 2014 49,845 22,695 (6,689) 75,394 (213,067) (2,488) 254,729 180,419 1,475 181,894 Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
75
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Share Capital Non-
Share premium Own redemption Consolidation Hedging Retained controlling Total
capital account shares reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £’000
Prior year
At 1 January 2013 49,845 22,695 (9,571) 75,394 (213,067) (1,216) 255,610 179,690 3,884 183,574
Total comprehensive  
income / (expense) for the period
Profit for the financial period 
attributable to equity shareholders 
of the parent – – – – – – 14,096 14,096 (634) 13,462
Other comprehensive  
income / (expense)
Foreign currency translation 
differences – – – – – – (51) (51) 45 (6)
Effective portion of changes 
in fair value of cash flow hedges – – – – – 2,787 – 2,787 – 2,787
Net change in fair value of cash flow 
hedges transferred to the Income 
Statement – – – – – (1,447) – (1,447) – (1,447)
Deferred tax arising – – – – – (286) – (286) – (286)
Defined benefit plan actuarial losses – – – – – – (18,735) (18,735) – (18,735)
Deferred tax arising – – – – – – 3,747 3,747 – 3,747
Deferred tax on share-based 
payments – – – – – – 176 176 – 176
Impact of the change in rate 
of deferred taxation – – – – – – 275 275 – 275
Total other comprehensive 
income / (expense) – – – – – 1,054 (14,588) (13,534) 45 (13,489)
Total comprehensive  
income / (expense) for the period – – – – – 1,054 (492) 562 (589) (27)
Transactions with owners, 
recorded directly in equity
Contributions by and 
distributions to owners
Share-based expenses – – – – – – 2,177 2,177 – 2,177
Dividends to equity shareholders – – – – – – (10,292) (10,292) – (10,292)
Disposal of own shares – – 59 – – – (59) – – –
Total contributions by and 
distributions to owners – – 59 – – – (8,174) (8,115) – (8,115)
Total transactions with owners of 
the Company – – 59 – – 1,054 (8,666) (7,553) (589) (8,142)
At 31 December 2013 49,845 22,695 (9,512) 75,394 (213,067) (162) 246,944 172,137 3,295 175,432
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
76
1 Accounting policies
Significant accounting policies
Marshalls plc (the "Company") is a Company domiciled in the United Kingdom. The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the 
year ended 31 December 2014 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the "Group"). 
The Consolidated Financial Statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 6 March 2015.
The following paragraphs summarise the significant accounting policies of the Group, which have been applied consistently in dealing with 
items which are considered material in relation to the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the EU. The Group has applied all 
accounting standards and interpretations issued by the IASB and International Financial Reporting Committee relevant to its operations and 
which are effective in respect of these Financial Statements.
The following new accounting standards and amendments to standards are mandatory and have been adopted for the first time in the year 
ended 31 December 2014:
 — IFRS 10 – "Consolidated Financial Statements" and IAS 27 – "Separate Financial Statements", IFRS 11 – "Joint Arrangements" and IAS 28 
– "Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures". These are part of a new suite of standards on consolidation and related standards, 
replacing the existing accounting for subsidiaries and joint ventures (now joint arrangements) and making limited amendments in 
relation to associates.
 — IFRS 12 – "Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities". This contains the disclosure requirements for entities that have interests in subsidiaries, 
joint arrangements (i.e. joint operations or joint ventures), associates and/or unconsolidated structured entities.
These standards have not had a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(a) Statement of compliance
The Group Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union ("adopted IFRSs"). The Parent Company has elected to prepare its Financial Statements 
in accordance with FRS 101 (transitioned from UK GAAP); these are presented on pages 109 to 118.
(b) Basis of preparation 
The Group's business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the 
Strategic Report on pages 1 to 30. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also set out 
in the Strategic Report. In addition, Note 18 includes the Group's policies and procedures for managing its capital; its financial risk management 
objectives; details of its financial instruments; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Details of the Group's funding position are set out in Note 18 and are subject to normal covenant arrangements. The Group's on-demand 
overdraft facility is reviewed on an annual basis and the current arrangements were renewed and signed on 16 July 2014. In the opinion of the 
Directors there are sufficient unutilised facilities held which mature after 12 months. The Group's performance is dependent on economic and 
market conditions, the outlook for which is difficult to predict. Based on current expectations, the Group's cash forecasts continue to meet 
half-year and year end bank covenants and there is adequate headroom which is not dependent on facility renewals. The Directors believe that 
the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their 
fair value: derivative financial instruments and liabilities for cash-settled share-based payments.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of these Consolidated Financial Statements 
and are also set out on the Company’s website (www.marshalls.co.uk).
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates 
and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily 
apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period 
in which the estimate is revised, if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects 
both current and future periods.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
77
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
(b) Basis of preparation continued
Judgements made by management in the application of adopted IFRSs that have a significant effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements 
and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in Note 27.
(c) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the 
financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently 
are exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The Financial Statements of subsidiaries are included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
(ii) Associates (equity accounted investees)
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. Significant 
influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and 50 per cent of the voting power of another entity. Associates are 
accounted for using the equity method (equity accounted investees) and are recognised initially at cost. The Group's investment includes 
goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Group's share 
of the income and expenses and equity movements of equity accounted investees, after adjustment to align the accounting policies with 
those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases. When the Group's 
share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the carrying amount of that interest (including any long-term investments) 
is reduced to nil and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made 
payments on behalf of the investee.
(iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated 
in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(d) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that 
date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
For the purposes of presenting Consolidated Financial Statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group's foreign operations are translated at 
exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, 
unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
(e) Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, fuel pricing and interest rate risks arising from 
operational, financing and investment activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial 
instruments for speculative purposes. However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value and transaction costs are recognised in the Income Statement when incurred. 
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement. However, where derivatives 
qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged (see accounting 
policy (f )).  Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
78
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
(f) Hedging
(i) Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly 
probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity. 
When the forecasted transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated 
cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset. For cash 
flow hedges, other than those covered by the preceding policy statement, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and 
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the 
income or expense. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the 
hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, it no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting. The cumulative gain or loss at that 
point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no 
longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the Consolidated 
Income Statement and cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
(ii) Economic hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is used to hedge economically the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary 
asset or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the Consolidated 
Income Statement.
(g) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting 
policy l). The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of directly attributable 
production overheads.
Certain items of property, plant and equipment that had been revalued to fair value on or prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition 
to adopted IFRSs, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant 
and equipment.
(ii) Leased assets
Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Property, plant 
and equipment acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the 
minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy l).
(iii) Subsequent costs
The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that 
cost is incurred if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can 
be measured reliably. All other costs are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
(iv) Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of 
property, plant and equipment. Depreciation on quarries is based on estimated rates of extraction. This is based on a comparison between the 
volume of relevant material extracted in any given period and the volume of relevant material available for extraction. Depreciation on leased 
assets is charged over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic life. Freehold land is not depreciated. The rates are as follows:
Freehold and long leasehold buildings – 2.5% to 5% per annum
Short leasehold property  – over the period of the lease
Fixed plant and equipment  – 3.3% to 25% per annum
Mobile plant and vehicles  – 14% to 30% per annum
Quarries    – based on rates of extraction
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
79
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
(g) Property, plant and equipment continued
(iv) Depreciation continued
The residual values, useful economic lives and depreciation methods are reassessed annually. Assets under construction are not depreciated 
until they are ready for use.
Site preparation costs associated with the development of new stone reserves are capitalised. These costs would include:
 — costs of clearing the site (including internal and outsourced labour in relation to site workers);
 — professional fees (including fees relating to obtaining planning consent);
 — purchase, installation and assembly of any necessary extraction equipment; and
 — costs of testing whether the extraction process is functioning properly (net of any sales of test product).
Depreciation commences when commercial extraction commences and is based on the rate of extraction.
In accordance with IAS 37, provision is made for quarry restoration where a legal or constructive obligation exists, it is probable that an outflow 
of economic benefits will occur and the financial cost of restoration work can be reliably measured. The lives of quarries are almost always long 
and it is difficult to estimate the length with any precision. The majority of quarry restoration work is undertaken while extracting minerals from 
new areas (backfilling) and therefore work can be completed without additional cost. As a result of the particular characteristics of the Group's 
quarries, the IAS 37 criteria have not been met to date based on the assets so far acquired and therefore, no provisions have been recognised. 
(h) Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control 
is transferred to the Group.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2011, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:
 — the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus 
 — the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus
 — the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less
 — the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Costs relating to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, 
it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent 
consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
On a transaction-by-transaction basis, the Group elects to measure non-controlling interests either at its fair value or at its proportionate 
interest in the recognised amount of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree at the acquisition date.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004 but before 1 January 2011, goodwill represents the difference 
between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identifiable assets and contingent liabilities acquired. The classification and 
accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2011 were not adjusted in preparing the Group’s opening IFRS 
balance sheet at 1 January 2011.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded 
under the Group’s previous accounting framework. The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior 
to 1 January 2004 were not adjusted in preparing the Group’s opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004.
Goodwill is subsequently stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is tested 
annually for impairment (see accounting policy l). In respect of equity accounted investees, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the 
carrying amount of the investment in the investee.
In respect of acquisitions where there is a contingent consideration element an accrual is created for the estimated amount payable if it is 
probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and this can be measured reliably. Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
80
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
(h) Intangible assets continued
(ii) Research and development
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, 
is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially 
improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process meets the recognition criteria for development expenditure as set 
out in IAS 38 – "Intangible Assets". The expenditure capitalised includes all directly attributable costs, from the date which the intangible asset 
meets the recognition criteria, necessary to create, produce and prepare the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by 
management. Other development expenditure is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred. Capitalised 
development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy l).
(iii) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses 
(see accounting policy l). 
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
(iv) Subsequent expenditure
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the 
specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
(v) Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets 
unless such lives are indefinite. Goodwill is systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date. Other intangible assets are 
amortised from the date they are available for use. The rates applied are as follows:
Customer and supplier relationships – 5 to 20 years
Patents, trademarks and know-how – 2 to 20 years
Development costs   – 10 to 20 years
Software    – 5 to 10 years
(i) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount (discounted if material) less impairment losses (see accounting policy l).
(j) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course 
of business, less the estimated costs to completion and of selling expenses. 
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in, first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing 
them to their existing location and condition. In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share 
of overheads based on normal operating capacity which were incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
(k) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the 
Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement. 
(l) Impairment 
(i) Impairment review
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, other than inventories (see accounting policy j) and deferred tax assets (see accounting policy v), 
are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s 
recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill, assets that have an indefinite useful life and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is 
estimated at each balance sheet date. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
81
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
(l) Impairment continued
(i) Impairment review continued
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated 
to cash-generating units and then, to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis. A cash-generating unit 
is the group of assets identified on acquisition that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets 
or groups of assets.
The recoverable amount of assets or cash-generating units is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing 
value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash 
inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
(ii) Reversals of impairments 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change 
in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have 
been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
(m) Share capital
(i) Share capital
Share capital is classified as equity if it is non-redeemable and any dividends are discretionary, or is redeemable but only at the Company’s 
option. Dividends on share capital classified as equity are recognised as distributions within equity. Non-equity share capital is classified as 
a liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary. Dividends 
thereon are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as a financial expense.
(ii) Dividends 
Dividends on non-equity shares are recognised as a liability and accounted for on an accruals basis. Equity dividends are recognised 
as a liability in the period in which they are declared (appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company).
(n) Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised 
in the Consolidated Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
(o) Pension schemes
(i) Defined benefit schemes 
The net obligation in respect of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that 
employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, 
and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated corporate bonds 
that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the 
projected unit credit method.
If the calculation results in a surplus, the resulting asset is measured at the lower of the amount of any cumulative unrecognised net actuarial 
losses and past service cost and the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan, or reductions 
in future contributions to the plan. The present value of these economic benefits is discounted by reference to market yields at the balance 
sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
When the benefits of the Scheme are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised 
as an expense in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. To the extent 
that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the Group’s obligation in respect of a plan are recognised immediately within the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
(ii) Defined contribution schemes
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement as incurred. Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
82
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
(p) Share-based payment transactions
The Group enters into equity settled share-based payment transactions with its employees. In particular, annual awards are made to employees 
under the Company's incentive schemes which include the Management Incentive Plan ("MIP"), Performance Incentive Plan ("PIP") and the 
Long Term Incentive Plans ("LTIP").
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at 
grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. Where appropriate, the 
fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black-Scholes option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions 
upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards for which the 
related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based 
on the number of awards that do meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
Current tax relief is available as shares vest based on the value at the date of vesting. A deferred tax asset is recognised at grant date based on 
the number of shares expected to be issued, at the value at which they are expected to be issued, proportioned in line with the vesting period.
(q) Own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust
Transactions of the Group-sponsored Employee Benefit Trust are included in the Group Financial Statements. In particular, the Trust’s purchases 
of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
(r) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, it can be measured reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect 
is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has 
either commenced or has been announced publicly. Future operating costs are not provided for.
(s) Trade and other payable
Trade and other payables are stated at nominal amount (discounted if material).
(t) Revenue
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement upon the despatch of goods, when the significant risks 
and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to the buyer. Revenue represents the invoiced value of sales to customers less 
returns, allowances and value added tax.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due or the possible return of goods 
or continuing management involvement with the goods.
(u) Expenses
(i) Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the 
lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the life of the lease.
(ii) Finance lease payments
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance charge is 
allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
(iii) Financial expenses
Net financial expenses comprise interest on obligations under the defined benefit pension scheme, the expected return on scheme assets 
under the defined benefit pension scheme, interest payable on borrowings (including finance leases) calculated using the effective interest 
rate method, dividends on non-equity shares, interest receivable on funds invested, dividend income, foreign exchange gains and losses, 
and gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement (see accounting policy f ).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
83
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
1 Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting policies continued
(v) Income tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred taxation. Income tax is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred taxation is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not 
provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, 
other than in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in 
the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred taxation provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary difference reverses, based on rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred taxation asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Deferred taxation assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. 
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
(w) Segment reporting
IFRS 8 – "Operating Segments" requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of discrete financial information about components 
of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM") to allocate resources to the segments and 
to assess their performance. As far as Marshalls is concerned the CODM is regarded as being the Executive Directors. The Directors have 
concluded that, due to a change in the way information is reported to the CODM to include business unit level information, the detailed 
requirements of IFRS 8 now support the reporting of the Group’s Landscape Products business as a reportable segment which includes the 
UK operations of the Marshalls Landscape Products hard landscaping business, servicing both the UK Domestic and the UK Public Sector and 
Commercial end markets. Financial information for Landscape Products is now reported to the Group’s CODM for the assessment of segment 
performance and to facilitate resource allocation.
2 Segmental analysis
Segment revenues and results 
2014 2013
Landscape Landscape
Products Other Total Products Other Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total revenue 279,500 83,941 363,441 242,386 69,938 312,324
Inter-segment revenue (194) (4,731) (4,925) (87) (4,847) (4,934)
External revenue 279,306 79,210 358,516 242,299 65,091 307,390
Segment operating profit 36,066 (4,549)
*
31,517 25,591 (4,850) 20,741
Unallocated administration costs (6,330) (4,665)
Share of profits of associates 118 14
Operating profit 25,305 16,090
Finance charges (net) (2,884) (3,064)
Profit before tax 22,421 13,026
Taxation (4,198) (67)
Profit after tax 18,223 12,959
* After charging £1,995,000 in respect of restructuring costs in the Belgian business. Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
84
2 Segmental analysis continued
Segment revenues and results continued
The Landscape Products reportable segment operates a national manufacturing plan that is structured around a series of production units 
throughout the UK, in conjunction with a single logistics and distribution operation. A national planning process supports sales to both of 
the key end markets, namely the UK Domestic and Public Sector and Commercial end markets and the operating assets produce and deliver 
a range of broadly similar products that are sold into each of these end markets. Within the Landscape Products operating segment the focus 
is on the one integrated production, logistics and distribution network supporting both end markets.
Included in "Other" are the Group’s Street Furniture, Mineral Products, Stone Cladding and International operations which do not currently 
meet the IRFS 8 reporting requirements.
The accounting policies of the Landscape Products operating segment are the same as the Group's accounting policies. Segment profit 
represents the profit earned without allocation of the share of profit of associates and certain central administration costs that are not capable 
of allocation. Centrally administered overhead costs that relate directly to the reportable segment are included within the segment's results.
Segment assets 
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Fixed assets and inventory:
Landscape Products 156,509 163,276
Other 60,559 62,252
Total segment fixed assets and inventory 217,068 225,528
Unallocated assets 98,780 93,386
Consolidated total assets 315,848 318,914
For the purpose of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments the Group's CODM monitors the tangible 
fixed assets and inventory. Assets used jointly by reportable segments are not allocated to individual reportable segments.
Other segment information
Depreciation and amortisation Fixed asset additions
2014 2013 2014 2013
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Landscape Products 9,919 10,467 7,994 3,243
Other 3,294 3,670 4,016 2,815
13,213 14,137 12,010 6,058
Geographical destination of revenue
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
United Kingdom 337,475 290,855
Rest of the World 21,041 16,535
358,516 307,390
The Group's revenue is subject to seasonal fluctuations resulting from demand from customers. In particular, demand is higher in the summer 
months. The Group manages the seasonal impact through the use of a seasonal working capital facility.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
85
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
3 Net operating costs
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Raw materials and consumables 137,250 117,176
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress (3,484) 1,470
Personnel costs 93,439 80,549
Depreciation – owned 11,907 13,041
– leased 75 158
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,231 938
Own work capitalised (1,473) (1,071)
Other operating costs 94,910 80,425
International "start-up" costs – 84
Restructuring costs in Marshalls NV (page 26) 1,995 –
Operating costs 335,850 292,770
Other operating income (2,161) (1,325)
Net gain on asset and property disposals (360) (131)
Share of results of associates (118) (14)
Net operating costs 333,211 291,300
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Net operating costs include:
Auditor’s remuneration (see below) 167 169
Leasing costs 8,081 7,305
Hire of plant and machinery 4,640 4,769
Research and development costs 2,684 2,775
In respect of the year under review, KPMG LLP carried out work in relation to:
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Audit of Marshalls plc 20 20
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 103 103
Half-yearly review of Marshalls plc 40 40
Taxation compliance services 4 6
167 169
  Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
86
4 Personnel costs
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Personnel costs (including amounts charged in the year in relation to Directors):
Wages and salaries 76,645 67,119
Social security costs 8,960 7,636
Share-based expenses 3,062 1,658
Contributions to defined contribution pension scheme 4,772 4,136
Included within net operating costs (Note 3) 93,439 80,549
Personnel costs included in profit on discontinued operations (Note 7) – 656
Personnel costs included in operational restructuring costs 507 –
Total personnel costs 93,946 81,205
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Remuneration of Directors:
Salary 859 918
Other benefits 46 55
PIP bonus – 643
MIP Element A bonus 877 –
MIP Element B bonus 333 –
Amounts receivable under the LTIP 2,729 3,537
Pension allowances 205 261
Non-Executive Directors’ fees and fixed allowances 300 289
5,349 5,703
The aggregate of emoluments and amounts receivable under the PIP and the LTIP of the highest paid Director was £1,924,000 (2013: £2,900,000) 
including a salary supplement pension allowance of £54,000 (2013: £96,000).
There are no Directors to whom retirement benefits are accruing in respect of qualifying services. As set out in the Remuneration Report 
on page 47, the Executive Directors receive a pension allowance equal to their contractual entitlement of 20 per cent of basic salary.
Further details of Directors’ remuneration, share options, long term incentive plans and Directors’ pension entitlements are disclosed 
in the Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 61.
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year was:
2014 2013
Number Number
Continuing operations 2,132 2,042
5 Financial expenses and income
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
(a) Financial expenses
Interest expense on defined benefit pension scheme 48 –
Interest expense on bank loans, overdrafts and loan notes 2,835 3,638
Finance lease interest expense 6 11
2,889 3,649
(b) Financial income
Expected return on the defined benefit pension scheme – 576
Interest receivable and similar income 5 9
5 585
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
87
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
6 Income tax expense
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Current tax expense
Current year 5,670 4,251
Adjustments for prior years (1,834) (1,642)
3,836 2,609
Deferred taxation expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences:
Current year (319) (2,944)
Adjustments for prior years 681 402
Income tax expense in the Consolidated Income Statement (continuing operations) 4,198 67
Tax on discontinued operations – 210
Total tax expense 4,198 277
2014 2013
% £'000 % £’000
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Profit before tax:
Continuing operations 100.0 22,421 100.0 13,026
Tax using domestic corporation tax rate 21.5 4,821 23.3 3,051
Disallowed amortisation of intangible assets 0.1 20 0.3 33
Net income / (expenditure) not taxable 2.3 510 6.4 839
Adjustments for prior years (5.2) (1,153) (9.5) (1,240)
Impact of the change in the rate of corporation tax on deferred taxation – – (20.0) (2,616)
18.7 4,198 0.5 67
The net amount of deferred taxation (debited) / credited to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year was £393,000 
credit (2013: £3,912,000 credit).
7 Discontinued operations
On 30 April 2013 the Group completed the sale of aggregate quarries to Breedon Aggregates England Limited for cash consideration of 
£17.5 million. The assets sold comprised quarries solely supplying aggregates, sand and gravel. The Group retained all of its dimensional stone 
quarries, some of which produce aggregate as an ancillary product. The disposed quarries were the freehold and leasehold quarries at 
Clearwell, near Lydney, Gloucestershire, which produces primarily high quality limestone aggregates and the Group's sand and gravel quarries 
located at Dunsville, near Hatfield, South Yorkshire, Astley Moss in Greater Manchester and Mold in North Wales which operates under the 
Lloyds Sand and Gravel trading name and the business carried on from these quarries. Also included was an option to develop sand and gravel 
resources near Saredon, Staffordshire. On 23 August 2013 additional consideration of £1.2 million was received following the satisfactory 
completion of a post completion condition. This condition had required the commissioning of a sand extraction plant to the satisfaction of 
the purchaser. The additional consideration, net of attributable costs, gave rise to a post tax profit of discontinued operations of £0.5 million.  Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
88
7 Discontinued operations continued
The results of the discontinued operations which have been included in the Consolidated Income Statement were as follows:
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Revenue – 2,989
Net operating costs – (2,648)
Profit before tax – 341
Income tax expense – (110)
Profit after tax – 231
Profit on disposal and closure of discontinued operations – 272
Net profit attributable to discontinued operations – 503
Basic earnings per share (pence) – 0.26
Diluted earnings per share (pence) – 0.25
8 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share from total operations of 10.13 pence (2013: 7.20 pence) per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to 
ordinary shareholders from total operations, after adjusting for non-controlling interests, of £19,857,000 (2013: £14,096,000) by the weighted 
average number of shares in issue during the period of 196,116,404 (2013: 195,742,757).
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations of 10.13 pence (2013: 6.94 pence) per share is calculated by dividing the profit from 
continuing operations, after adjusting for non-controlling interests, of £19,857,000 (2013: £13,593,000) by the weighted average number 
of shares in issue during the year of 196,116,404 (2013: 195,742,757).
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Profit from continuing operations 18,223 12,959
Profit from discontinued operations – 503
Profit for the financial period 18,223 13,462
Loss attributable to non-controlling interests 1,634 634
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 19,857 14,096
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
2014 2013
Number Number
Number of issued ordinary shares (at beginning of the period) 199,378,755 199,378,755
Effect of shares transferred into employee benefit trust (3,262,351) (1,210,998)
Effect of treasury shares acquired – (2,425,000)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at end of the period 196,116,404 195,742,757
Diluted earnings per share from total operations of 9.89 pence (2013: 7.07 pence) per share is calculated by dividing the profit from total 
operations, after adjusting for non-controlling interests, of £19,857,000 (2013: £14,096,000) by the weighted average number of shares in issue 
during the period of 196,116,404 (2013: 195,742,757) plus potentially dilutive shares of 4,646,375 (2013: 3,635,998) which totals 200,762,799 
(2013: 199,378,755).
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of 9.89 pence (2013: 6.82 pence) per share is calculated by dividing the profit from 
continuing operations, after adjusting for non-controlling interests, of £19,857,000 (2013: £13,593,000) by the weighted average number of shares 
in issue during the period of 196,116,404 (2013: 195,742,757) plus potentially dilutive shares of 4,646,375 (2013: 3,635,998) which totals 
200,762,779 (2013: 199,378,755).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
89
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
8 Earnings per share continued
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted)
2014 2013
Number Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 196,116,404 195,742,757
Potentially dilutive shares 4,646,375 1,210,998
Effect of treasury shares acquired – 2,425,000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) 200,762,779 199,378,755
9 Dividends
After the balance sheet date a dividend of 4.00 pence (2013: 3.50 pence) per qualifying ordinary share was proposed by the Directors. 
The dividend has not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences. The total dividends proposed in respect of the year 
are as follows:
Pence per 2014 2013
qualifying share £’000 £’000
2014 final 4.00 7,975
2014 interim 2.00 3,924 
6.00 11,899 
2013 final 3.50 6,861
2013 interim 1.75 3,431
5.25 10,292
The following dividends were approved by the shareholders and recognised in the period:
Pence per 2014 2013
qualifying share £’000 £’000
2014 interim 2.00 3,924 
2013 final 3.50 6,867 
5.50 10,791 
2013 interim 1.75 3,431
2012 final 3.50 6,861
5.25 10,292
The 2014 final dividend of 4.00 pence per qualifying ordinary share, with a total value of £7,975,000, will be paid on 3 July 2015 to shareholders 
registered at the close of business on 5 June 2015. Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
90
10 Property, plant and equipment
Land and Plant, machinery
buildings Quarries and vehicles Total
£'000 £'000 £'000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2013 88,761 32,268 302,915 423,944
Exchange differences 29 – 12 41
Additions 115 486 4,861 5,462
Disposals (196) (12,653) (10,070) (22,919)
Transfers 634 – (634) –
At 31 December 2013 89,343 20,101 297,084 406,528
At 1 January 2014 89,343 20,101 297,084 406,528
Exchange differences (428) – (236) (664)
Additions 894 1,072 9,303 11,269
Reclassification (237) 237 – –
Disposals (3,640) – (1,301) (4,941)
At 31 December 2014 85,932 21,410 304,850 412,192
Land and Plant, machinery
buildings Quarries and vehicles Total
£'000 £'000 £'000 £’000
Depreciation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2013 32,831 8,247 207,259 248,337
Depreciation charge for the year 2,366 157 10,932 13,455
Exchange differences – – 17 17
Disposals (188) (2,618) (7,196) (10,002)
At 31 December 2013 35,009 5,786 211,012 251,807
At 1 January 2014 35,009 5,786 211,012 251,807
Depreciation charge for the year 1,567 235 10,180 11,982
Exchange differences 1 – 44 45
Reclassification (635) 635 – –
Disposals (1,190) – (930) (2,120)
Impairments – – 733 733
At 31 December 2014 34,752 6,656 221,039 262,447
Net book value
At 1 January 2013 55,930 24,021 95,656 175,607
At 1 January 2014 54,334 14,315 86,072 154,721
At 31 December 2014 51,180 14,754 83,811 149,745
Mineral reserves and associated land have been separately disclosed under the heading of "Quarries".
The carrying amount of tangible fixed assets includes £568,000 (2013: £215,000) in respect of assets held under finance leases. Group cost of land and 
buildings and plant and machinery includes £168,000 (2013: £nil) and £872,000 (2013: £607,000) respectively for assets in the course of construction.
The impairment charge of £733,000 (2013: £nil) relates to the restructuring of the Marshalls NV business (page 26) and writes down their value to their 
fair value less costs to sell.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
91
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
10 Property, plant and equipment continued
Capital commitments
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Capital expenditure that has been contracted for but for which no provision has been made 
in the Consolidated Financial Statements 246 569
Depreciation charge
The depreciation charge is recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Income Statement:
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Net operating costs
Continuing operations (Note 3) 11,982 13,199
Discontinued operations – 256
11,982 13,455
11 Intangible assets
Patents,
Customer Supplier trademarks Development
Goodwill relationships relationships and knowhow costs Software Total
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £’000 £'000
Cost
At 1 January 2013 43,691 2,210 1,200 1,660 159 9,430 58,350
Additions – – – – – 596 596
At 31 December 2013 43,691 2,210 1,200 1,660 159 10,026 58,946
At 1 January 2014 43,691 2,210 1,200 1,660 159 10,026 58,946
Additions – – – – – 741 741
At 31 December 2014 43,691 2,210 1,200 1,660 159 10,767 59,687
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2013 8,912 2,210 548 1,270 69 3,928 16,937
Amortisation for the year – – 60 32 8 838 938
At 31 December 2013 8,912 2,210 608 1,302 77 4,766 17,875
At 1 January 2014 8,912 2,210 608 1,302 77 4,766 17,875
Amortisation for the year – – 60 32 8 1,131 1,231
At 31 December 2014 8,912 2,210 668 1,334 85 5,897 19,106
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2013 34,799 – 652 390 90 5,502 41,413
At 1 January 2014 34,779 – 592 358 82 5,260 41,071
At 31 December 2014 34,779 – 532 326 74 4,870 40,581
All goodwill has arisen from business combinations. The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated across cash generating units ("CGUs") and these 
CGUs are independent sources of income streams and represent the lowest level within the Group at which the associated goodwill is monitored for 
management purposes. The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations and at both 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 the full 
amount of goodwill in the Group balance sheet related to the Landscape Products CGU. These calculations use cash flow projections based on a 
combination of individual financial five year forecasts, containing assumptions for revenue growth and operational gearing, and appropriate long term 
growth rates of 2.3 per cent. To prepare value in use calculations, the cash flow forecasts are discounted back to present value using an appropriate 
market-based discount rate. The pre-tax discount rates used to calculate the value in use were 9.2 per cent (2013: 9.4 per cent), with the pre-tax 
discount rate used for the Landscape Products CGU being 9.2 per cent (2013: 9.4 per cent). The Directors have reviewed the recoverable amounts 
of the CGUs and do not consider that any reasonable change in the assumptions would give rise to the need for further impairment.
Included in software additions is £718,000 (2013: £596,000) of own work capitalised. Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
92
11 Intangible assets continued
Amortisation charge
The amortisation charge is recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Income Statement:
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Net operating costs (Note 3): continuing operations 1,231 938
12 Investment in associates
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Carrying value
At 1 January 664 650
Share of results of associates 118 14
At 31 December 782 664
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
 Investment at cost 2,250 2,250
 Impairment losses (1,566) (1,566)
 Cumulative share of results of associates 98 (20)
 Carrying value at 31 December 782 664
The Group's share of results of associates in the year ended 31 December 2014 was £118,000 profit (2013: £14,000 profit) and, on the grounds 
of materiality, no additional disclosure has been made.
13 Inventories 
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Raw materials and consumables 13,266 12,311
Finished goods and goods for resale 54,057 58,496
67,323 70,807
Inventories stated at fair value less cost to sell at 31 December 2014 amounted to £7,875,000 (2013: £8,714,000). The write down of inventories 
made during the year amounted to £1,236,000 (2013: £1,437,000). There were no reversals of inventory write-downs made in previous years either 
in 2014 or 2013.
14 Trade and other receivables 
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Trade receivables 21,945 23,606
Other receivables 2,885 2,648
Prepayments and accrued income 7,424 6,119
32,254 32,373
Ageing of trade receivables
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Less than 30 days 11,084 13,790
31–60 days 8,103 7,909
61–90 days 2,382 1,837
More than 90 days 376 70
21,945 23,606
No receivables were due after more than one year. All amounts disclosed above are considered recoverable and no material amounts are 
regarded as overdue.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
93
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
15 Cash and cash equivalents 
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Bank balances 20,289 17,626
Cash in hand 31 26
Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 20,320 17,652
16 Trade and other payables 
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Current liabilities
Trade payables 31,186 41,018
Taxation and social security 8,401 7,109
Other payables 5,828 4,459
Accruals 15,305 13,012
Financial liabilities 3,192 284
63,912 65,882
All trade payables are due in six months or less.
17 Loans
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Current liabilities
Bank loans – 3,370
Finance lease liabilities 85 83
85 3,453
Non-current liabilities 
Bank loans 50,307 49,627
Finance lease liabilities 408 141
50,715 49,768
Bank loans
The bank loans are secured by intra-group guarantees with certain subsidiary undertakings.
Finance lease liabilities
Minimum Minimum
lease lease
payments Interest Principal payments Interest Principal
2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £’000 £'000
Less than one year 95 10 85 89 6 83
One to two years 96 9 87 59 4 55
Two to five years 148 16 132 88 2 86
In more than five years 200 11 189 – – –
539 46 493 236 12 224 Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
94
18 Financial instruments
The Group holds and uses financial instruments to finance its operations and to manage its interest rate, liquidity and currency risks. The Group 
primarily finances its operations using share capital, retained profits and borrowings. The Group’s bank loans are non-equity funding 
instruments and further details of which are set out in Note 17.
As directed by the Board the Group does not engage in speculative activities using derivative financial instruments. Group cash reserves are 
held centrally to take advantage of the most rewarding short term investment opportunities. Forward foreign currency contracts are used in 
the management of currency risk.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and pricing risk. The Board 
reviews and agrees the policies for managing each of these risks and they have remained unchanged since 2013.
Capital management
The Group defines the capital that it manages as its total equity and net debt balances. The Group manages its capital structure in the light of 
current economic conditions and its strategic objectives to ensure that it is able to continue as a going concern whilst maximising the return 
to stakeholders through the optimisation of debt and equity balances.
The Group manages its medium term bank debt to ensure continuity of funding and the policy is to arrange funding ahead of requirements 
and to maintain sufficient undrawn committed facilities. A key objective is to ensure compliance with the covenants set out in the Group's 
bank facility agreements.
From time to time the Group purchases its own shares on the market; the timing of these purchases depends on market prices. Primarily 
the shares are intended to be used for issuing shares under the Group's incentive schemes. Buy and sell decisions are made on a specific 
transaction basis by the Board.
There has been no change in the objectives, policies or processes with regard to capital management during the years ended 31 December 2014 
and 31 December 2013.
Financial risks
The Group has exposure to a number of financial risks through the conduct of its operations. Risk management is governed by the Group's 
operational policies, guidelines and authorisation procedures which are outlined in the Strategic Report on pages 18 to 20. The key financial 
risks resulting from financial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, foreign currency risk and pricing risk.
In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Group’s earnings. 
Over the longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would have an impact on consolidated 
earnings. For instance, a weakening of pound sterling on the foreign currency market would increase the cost of certain raw materials, 
whereas a strengthening would have the opposite effect.
(a) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Board is responsible for ensuring 
that the Group has sufficient liquidity to meet its financial liabilities as they fall due and does so by monitoring cash flow forecasts and budgets. 
Cash resources are largely and normally generated through operations and short term flexibility is achieved by bank facilities. Bank debt is 
raised centrally and the Group aims to maintain a balance between flexibility and continuity of funding by having a range of maturities on 
its borrowings. Details of the Group borrowing facilities are provided on pages 97 and 98.
(b) Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy is to review regularly the terms of its available short term borrowing facilities and to assess individually and manage each 
long term borrowing commitment accordingly. The Group borrows principally at floating rates of interest and where appropriate uses interest 
rate swaps to generate the desired interest rate profile, thereby managing the Group's exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Approximately 75 per cent of core debt is covered by interest rate swaps of varying maturities up until 2018, which reflects the maturity date 
of the related loans and medium term requirements, in accordance with Group policy. The Group classifies its interest rate swaps as cash flow 
hedges and states them at fair value. The fair value of interest rate swaps is £76,000 liability (2013: £151,000 asset) and is adjusted against the 
hedging reserve on an ongoing basis. 
The period that the swaps cover is matched against the debt maturity in order to fix the impact on the Income Statement. During the year 
£536,000 (2013: £1,268,000) has been recognised in Other Comprehensive Income for the year with £320,000 (2013: £544,000) being 
reclassified from equity to the Income Statement. The Interest rate swaps have been fully effective in the period.
With the addition of the fuel hedges (Note 18(e)) and forward contracts this gives a total of £3,984,000 (2013: £2,787,000) recognised in Other 
Comprehensive Income for the year with £1,076,000 (2013: £1,447,000) being reclassified from equity to the Income Statement.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
95
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
18 Financial instruments continued
Financial risks continued
(b) Interest rate risk continued
Sensitivity analysis
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the balance sheet date would have decreased equity and profit by the amounts shown below. 
The sensitivity analysis has been undertaken before the effect of tax. The sensitivity analysis of the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk has 
been determined based on the change taking place at the beginning of the financial year and held constant throughout the reporting period. 
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant and considers the effect of financial 
instruments with variable interest rates, financial instrument at fair value through profit or loss or available for sale with fixed interest rates 
and the fixed rate element of interest rate swaps. The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2013.
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Increase of 100 basis points (244) (233)
Decrease of 100 basis points 244 233
(c) Credit risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are performed 
on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount and, where appropriate, credit insurance cover is obtained. This provides excellent 
intelligence to minimise the number and value of bad debts and ultimately provides compensation if bad debts are incurred. An ageing 
of trade receivables is shown in Note 14 on page 92.
Investments are allowed only in liquid securities and only with counterparties that have a credit rating equal to or better than the Group. 
Transactions involving derivative financial instruments are with counterparties with whom the Group has a signed netting agreement as 
well as sound credit ratings. Given their high credit ratings, management does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations.
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the 
carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, in the balance sheet.
(d) Foreign currency risk
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than sterling. The currencies 
giving rise to this risk are primarily Euros and US Dollars.
The Group’s policy is to cover all significant foreign currency commitments in respect of trade receivables and trade payables by using forward 
foreign currency contracts. Most of the forward exchange contacts have maturities of less than one year after the balance sheet date. Where 
necessary, the forward exchange contracts are rolled over at maturity.
The Group classifies its forward exchange contracts hedging forecasted transactions as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value. The fair 
value of forward exchange contracts is £16,000 asset (2013: £5,000 asset) and is adjusted against the hedging reserve on an ongoing basis. At 
31 December 2014 all outstanding forward exchange contracts have a maturity date within six months.
The foreign currency profile of monetary items was:
2014 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 2013
Sterling Euro US Dollars Total Sterling Euro US Dollars Total
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Cash and cash equivalents 18,807 1,254 259 20,320 16,406 1,190 56 17,652
Trade receivables 19,102 2,693 150 21,945 21,058 2,548 – 23,606
Secured bank loans (35,000) (15,307) – (50,307) (40,000) (12,997) – (52,997)
Trade payables (22,729) (7,901) (556) (31,186) (32,514) (7,690) (814) (41,018)
Forward exchange contracts (3,175) (17) – (3,192) (221) (63) – (284)
Balance sheet exposure (22,995) (19,278) (147) (42,420) (35,271) (17,012) (758) (53,041) Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
96
18 Financial instruments continued
Financial risks continued
(d) Foreign currency risk continued
A 10 per cent strengthening and weakening of the following currencies against the pound sterling at 31 December 2014 would have 
increased/decreased equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This calculation assumes that the change occurred at the balance 
sheet date and had been applied to risk exposures existing at that date.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular other exchange rates and interest rates, remain constant. The analysis is performed 
on the same basis for 2013:
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
10 per cent strengthening of £ against € 1,895 1,576
10 per cent weakening of £ against € (1,895) (1,576)
10 per cent strengthening of £ against $ 17 96
10 per cent weakening of £ against $ (17) (96)
(e) Pricing risks
Where appropriate the Group uses hedging instruments to mitigate the risks of significant forward price rises of fuel in relation to expected 
consumption. The current hedges held are in place until 31 December 2014. The Group classifies its fuel hedges as cash flow hedges and states 
them at fair value. The fair value of the fuel hedges is £3,132,000 liability (2013: £440,000 liability) and is adjusted against the hedging reserve 
on an ongoing basis. The period that the fuel hedges cover is matched against future expected purchases in order to fix the impact on the 
Income Statement. During the year £3,448,000 (2013: £1,519,000) has been recognised in other Comprehensive Income with £756,000 
(2013: £903,000) being reclassified from equity to the Income Statement. The fuel hedges have been fully effective in the period.
(f) Other risks
Further information about the Group's strategic and financial risks is contained in the Strategic Report on pages 18 to 20.
Effective interest rates and maturity of liabilities
At 31 December 2014 there were £493,000 (2013: £224,000) Group borrowings on a fixed rate. Interest rate swaps have been taken out with 
the intention to fix the interest on 75 per cent of the Group’s core debt. The interest rate profile of the financial liabilities were:
Fixed or Effective 6 months 6 – 12 More than
variable interest rate Total or less months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years
rate % £'000 £'000 £'000 £’000 £'000 £'000
31 December 2014
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 15) Variable 2.41 (20,320) (20,320) – – – –
Bank loans Variable 2.41 50,307 – – 15,000 35,307 –
Finance lease liabilities Fixed 8.80 493 26 59 87 132 189
30,480 (20,294) 59 15,087 35,439 189
Fixed or Effective 6 months 6 – 12 More than
variable interest rate Total or less months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years
rate % £'000 £'000 £'000 £’000 £'000 £'000
31 December 2013
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 15) Variable 2.46 (17,652) (17,652) – – – –
Bank loans Variable 2.46 52,997 – 3,370 25,000 24,627 –
Finance lease liabilities Fixed 5.33 224 41 42 55 86 –
35,569 (17,611) 3,412 25,055 24,713 –
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
97
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
18 Financial instruments continued
Financial risks continued
Effective interest rates and maturity of liabilities continued
At 31 December the undiscounted outstanding contractual payments (including interest) of financial liabilities was as follows:
Fixed or Carrying 6 months 6 – 12 More than
variable value Total or less months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years
rate £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £’000 £'000 £'000
31 December 2014
Bank loans Variable 50,307 53,485 504 501 15,901 36,579 –
Trade payables Variable 31,186 31,186 31,186 – – – –
Finance lease liabilities Fixed 493 539 31 64 96 148 200
Financial liabilities Fixed 3,192 3,345 1,050 1,005 1,247 43 –
85,178 88,555 32,771 1,570 17,244 36,770 200
Fixed or Carrying 6 months 6 – 12 More than
variable value Total or less months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years
rate £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £’000 £'000 £'000
31 December 2013
Bank loans Variable 52,997 55,256 565 3,902 25,848 24,941 –
Trade payables Variable 41,018 41,018 41,018 – – – –
Finance lease liabilities Fixed 224 236 44 45 59 88 –
Financial liabilities Fixed 284 921 386 306 92 137 –
94,523 97,431 42,013 4,253 25,999 25,166 –
Borrowing facilities
The total bank borrowing facilities at 31 December 2014 amounted to £125.0 million (2013: £145.0 million) of which £74.7 million (2013: £92.0 million) 
remained unutilised. There are additional seasonal bank working capital facilities of £20.0 million available between 1 February and 31 August each 
year. The undrawn facilities available at 31 December 2014, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met, were as follows:
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Committed:
  Expiring in more than two years but not more than five years 34,693 50,373
  Expiring in one year or less 25,000 16,630
Uncommitted:
  Expiring in one year or less 15,000 25,000
74,693 92,003
The committed facilities are all revolving credit facilities with interest charged at a variable rate based on LIBOR.
The total borrowing facilities at 31 December 2014 amounted to £125.0 million. This was due to the Group's decision to reduce its uncommitted 
loan facilities by £10.0 million on 16 July 2014 and the refinancing on 21 August 2014 of two existing committed loan facilities totalling in 
aggregate £50.0 million with extended maturity dates to 2017 and 2018 at newly arranged levels totalling £40.0 million. An additional loan 
facility of £20.0 million reached maturity on 20 August 2014 and has been refinanced with an extended maturity date to 2019. Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
98
18 Financial instruments continued
Borrowing facilities continued
The maturity profile of borrowing facilities is structured to provide balanced, committed and phased medium term debt. The current facilities 
are set out as follows:
Cumulative
Facility facility
£’000 £'000
Committed facilities:
Q3: 2019 20,000 20,000
Q3: 2018 20,000 40,000
Q3: 2017 20,000 60,000
Q3: 2016 25,000 85,000
Q3: 2015 25,000 110,000
On demand facilities:
Available all year 15,000 125,000
Seasonal (February to August inclusive) 20,000 145,000
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
A comparison by category of the book values and fair values of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group at 31 December 2014 is 
shown below:
2014 2013
Book amount Fair value Book amount Fair value
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade and other receivables 32,254 32,254 32,373 32,373
Cash and cash equivalents 20,320 20,320 17,652 17,652
Bank loans (50,307) (49,451) (52,997) (52,061) 
Finance lease liabilities (493) (539) (224) (236)
Trade and other payables (60,720) (60,720) (65,598) (65,598)
Interest rate swaps, forward contracts and fuel hedges (3,192) (3,192) (284) (284)
Financial liabilities – net (62,138) (69,078)
Other assets – net 244,032 244,510 
181,894 175,432 
Estimation of fair values
The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table.
(a) Derivatives
Derivative contracts are either marked to market using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price at the relevant rate 
and deducting the current spot rate. For interest rate swaps broker quotes are used.
(b) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Fair value is calculated based on the expected future principal and interest cash flows discounted at the market rate of interest at the balance 
sheet date. 
(c) Finance lease liabilities
The fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for homogeneous lease agreements. 
The estimated fair values reflect changes in interest rates.
(d) Trade and other receivables/payables
For receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. All other 
receivables/payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
99
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
18 Financial instruments continued
Borrowing facilities continued
Estimation of fair values continued
e) Fair value hierarchy
The table below analyses financial instruments, measured at fair value, into a fair value hierarchy based on the valuation techniques used 
to determine fair value.
 — Level 1 : quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
 — Level 2 : inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) 
or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
 — Level 3 : inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
£'000 £'000 £'000 £’000
31 December 2014 
Derivative financial liabilities – 3,192 – 3,192
31 December 2013
Derivative financial liabilities – 284 – 284
19 Employee benefits
The Company sponsors a funded defined benefit pension scheme ("the Scheme") in the UK. The Scheme is administered within a trust which 
is legally separate from the Company. The Trustee Board is appointed by both the Company and the Scheme's membership and acts in the 
interest of the Scheme and all relevant stakeholders, including the members and the Company. The Trustee is also responsible for the 
investment of the Scheme's assets.
The defined benefit section of the Scheme closed to future service accrual with effect from 30 June 2006 and members no longer pay 
contributions to the defined benefit section. Company contributions after this date are used to fund any deficit in the Scheme and the 
expenses associated with administering the Scheme, as determined by regular actuarial valuations.
The Trustee is required to use prudent assumptions to value the liabilities and costs of the Scheme whereas the accounting assumptions must 
be best estimates.
The Scheme poses a number of risks to the Company, for example longevity risk, investment risk, interest rate risk and inflation risk. The Trustee 
is aware of these risks and uses various techniques to control them. The Trustee has a number of internal control policies including a risk 
register which are in place to manage and monitor the various risks they face. The Trustee's investment strategy incorporates the use of liability 
driven investments ("LDIs") to minimise sensitivity of the actuarial funding position to movements in interest rates and inflation rates.
The Scheme is subject to regular actuarial valuations, which are carried out at intervals of no less than every 3 years. The next actuarial 
valuation is expected to be carried out with an effective date of 5 April 2015. These actuarial valuations are carried out in accordance with the 
requirements of the Pensions Act 2004 and include deliberate margins for prudence. This contrasts with these accounting disclosures which 
are determined using best estimate assumptions.
An interim actuarial valuation was carried out as at 5 April 2014. The results of that valuation have been projected to 31 December 2014 by 
a qualified independent actuary. The figures in the following disclosure were measured using the projected unit method.
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet were as follows:
2014 2013 2012
£’000 £’000 £'000
Present value of a Scheme liabilities (309,067) (262,900) (246,573)
Fair value of Scheme assets 312,516 258,553 254,785
Net amount recognised at year end (before any adjustments for deferred tax) 3,449 (4,347) 8,212 Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
100
19 Employee benefits continued
The amounts recognised in Comprehensive Income were:
The current and past service costs, settlement and curtailments, together with the net interest expense for the year are included in the 
employee benefits expense in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. Re-measurements of the net defined benefit surplus / (liability) 
are included in Other Comprehensive Income.
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Service cost:
Net interest expense / (credit) recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 48 (576)
Remeasurements of the net liability:
 Difference between actual and expected investment return (46,766) 5,108
 Loss arising from changes in financial assumptions 44,242 13,437
 Loss arising from changes in demographic assumptions – 987
 Experience gain (720) (797)
(Credit) / charge recorded in Other Comprehensive Income (3,244) 18,735
(3,196) 18,159
The principal actuarial assumptions used were:
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Liability discount rate 3.60% 4.60%
Inflation assumption – RPI 3.10% 3.40%
Inflation assumption – CPI 2.10% 2.40%
Rate of increase in salaries n/a n/a
Revaluation of deferred pensions 2.10% 2.40%
Increases for pensions in payment:
CPI pension increases (maximum 5% pa) 2.10% 2.40%
CPI pension increases (maximum 5% pa, minimum 3% pa) 3.10% 3.20%
CPI pension increases (maximum 3% pa) 2.00% 2.20%
Mortality assumption – before retirement
Same as post
retirement
Same as post
retirement
Mortality assumption – after retirement (males) S1PMA tables S1PMA tables
Loading 105% 105%
Projection basis Year of birth Year of birth
CMI_2012 1.0% CMI_2012 1.0%
Mortality assumption – after retirement (females) S1PFA tables S1PFA tables
Loading 105% 105%
Projection basis Year of birth Year of birth
CMI_2012 1.0% CMI_2012 1.0%
  
Future expected lifetime of current pensioner at age 65:
Male aged 65 at year end 21.9 21.9
Female age 65 at year end 24.2 24.1
Future expected lifetime of future pensioner at age 65:    
Male aged 45 at year end 23.3 23.2
Female age 45 at year end 25.7 25.6
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
101
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
19 Employee benefits continued
Changes in the present value of assets over the period:
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Fair value of assets at start of period 258,553 254,785
Interest income 11,833 11,961
Return on assets (excluding amount included in net interest expense) 46,766 (5,108)
Contributions from the employer 4,600 5,600
Benefits paid (9,236) (8,685)
Fair value of assets at end of period 312,516 258,553
Actual return on assets over the period 58,599 6,853
Changes in the present value of liabilities over the period:
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Liabilities at start of period 262,900 246,573
Interest cost 11,881 11,385
Remeasurement (gains) / losses:
Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 44,242 13,437
Actuarial losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions – 987
Other experience gains (720) (797)
Benefits paid (9,236) (8,685)
Liabilities at end of period 309,067 262,900
The split of the Scheme's liabilities by category of membership is as follows:  
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Deferred pensioners 161,195 133,817
Pensioners in payment 147,872 129,083
309,067 262,900
Average duration of the Scheme's liabilities at the end of the period (years) 18 19
The major categories of Scheme assets are as follows: 
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Return seeking assets
UK equities 35,997 40,428
Overseas equities 14,534 13,836
Other equity type investments 39,729 38,200
Total return seeking assets 90,260 92,464
Debt instruments
Insured pensioners 1,396 1,295
Cash 2,443 2,564
Liability driven investments 218,417 162,230
Total matching assets 222,256 166,089
Total market value of assets 312,516 258,553
The Scheme has no investments in the Company or in property occupied by the Company.
Under the recovery plan in place as at 31 December 2014, the Company has agreed to contribute £4,600,000 to the Scheme during the year 
ending 31 March 2015. Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
102
19 Employee benefits continued
Sensitivity of the liability value to changes in the principal assumptions
If the discount rate was 0.1 per cent higher (lower), the Scheme liabilities would decrease by approximately £5.4 million (increase by £5.5 million) 
if all the other assumptions remained unchanged.
If the inflation assumption was 0.1 per cent higher (lower), the Scheme liabilities would increase by £2.0 million (decrease by £2.1 million). 
In this calculation all assumptions related to the inflation assumption have been appropriately adjusted, including the deferred pension and 
pension in payment increases. The other assumptions remain unchanged.
If life expectancies were to increase (decrease) by 1 year, the Scheme liabilities would increase by £10.8 million (decrease by £11.6 million) if all 
the other assumptions remained unchanged.
Share-based payments
Marshalls plc 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (the "LTIP")
Share-based payment awards have been made during the year in accordance with the rules of the LTIP . The LTIP rules provide for the award of 
Matching Shares and Performance Shares subject, in the case of Matching Shares, to participants investing a stated percentage of their annual 
bonus in the LTIP . There are no Matching Share awards outstanding under the LTIP . Performance Shares may be awarded to participants 
without requiring a qualifying investment. 
Performance Shares are subject to the achievement of a 3 year performance target. The awards lapse if the performance target is not met over the 
3 year vesting period. Matching Share awards are dependent on an improvement in reported earnings per share, whilst Performance Share awards 
are dependent on an improvement in reported earnings per share and operating cash flow, each measured using IFRSs. The Remuneration 
Committee may exercise its discretion with regard to the effect of one off items. Full details of the performance criteria are set out in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 50.
The Performance Shares take the form of options which are settled by physical delivery of shares. The exercise price is £nil in relation to 
any of these grants and there is no entitlement to dividends during the vesting period. There are no market conditions associated with 
these instruments.
Number of Date of Vesting
instruments grant period
Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 243,412 10 September 2013 3 years
222,124 1 April 2014 3 years
115,676 2 October 2014 3 years
Equity settled awards granted to former Directors of Marshalls plc 456,576 20 March 2012 3 years
425,886 17 April 2013 3 years
267,710 1 April 2014 3 years
Equity settled awards granted to other employees 794,044 20 March 2012 3 years
755,057 17 April 2013 3 years
439,955 1 April 2014 3 years
50,073 29 April 2014 3 years
Weighted average Weighted average
share price at share price at
date of grant Number of date of grant Number of
(pence per share) options (pence per share) options
2014 2014 2013 2013
Outstanding at 1 January 116 5,570,167 108 3,951,999
Granted 182 1,149,818 134 1,702,299
Lapsed 113 (1,249,946) 107 (84,131)
Exercised 112 (1,699,526) – –
Outstanding at 31 December 137 3,770,513 116 5,570,167
None of the options were exercisable at 31 December 2014.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
103
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
19 Employee benefits continued
Share-based payments continued
Marshalls plc 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (the "LTIP") continued
The fair value of services received in return for shares granted is measured by reference to the fair value of these awards at the date of grant. 
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a Black-Scholes valuation model. 
2 October 29 April 1 April 10 September 17 April 20 March
2014 grant 2014 grant 2014 grant 2013 grant 2013 grant 2012 grant
Fair value at grant date (pence per share) 181 160 166 60 106 84
Share price on date of grant (pence per share) 199 176 180 173 127 101
Expected volatility used in the modelling under the Black-Scholes 
valuation model 65.0% 65.0% 65.0% 65.0% 65.0% 65.0%
Dividend yield 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 4.0% 6.0%
Risk-free interest rate (based on national Government bonds) 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0%
The Company's share price at 31 December 2014 was 234p.
The expected volatility is wholly based on the historic volatility (since the Scheme of Arrangement in July 2004), adjusted for any expected 
changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments are as follows:
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Awards granted and total expense recognised as employee costs 1,551 716
Performance Incentive Plan ("PIP")
Share-based payment awards have vested during the year in accordance with the rules of the PIP . Full details of the performance criteria and 
the basis of operation of the PIP are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 46 to 61.
Equity settled awards are settled by physical delivery of shares. The following equity settled awards have been granted.
Number of
instruments £'000 Date of grant Vesting period
Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 44,997 79 31 December 2013 2 years
Equity settled awards granted to former Directors of 
Marshalls plc 927,365 839 31 December 2011 4 years
374,762 365 31 December 2012 3 years
319,861 564 31 December 2013 2 years
Equity settled awards granted to other employees 466,179 422 31 December 2011 4 years
233,609 228 31 December 2012 3 years
215,388 380 31 December 2013 2 years
2,582,161 2,877 
Analysis of closing balance (deferred into shares):
£’000 Shares
Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 108 46,055
Equity settled awards granted to former Directors of Marshalls plc 979 418,488
Equity settled awards granted to other employees 1,071 457,738
2,158 922,281 Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
104
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
19 Employee benefits continued
Share-based payments continued
Performance Incentive Plan ("PIP") continued
Number of Number of
Value options Value options
£'000 2014 £'000 2013
Outstanding at 1 January 1,588 901,101 1,403 1,439,243
Granted – – 1,023 580,246
Change in value of notional shares 570 21,180 1,209 –
Element released – – (2,047) (1,118,388)
Outstanding at 31 December 2,158 922,281 1,588 901,101
The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments were as follows:
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Awards granted and total expense recognised as employee costs 523 942
Further details in relation to the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 61.
Management Incentive Plan ("MIP")
Share-based payment awards have been made during the year in accordance with the rules of the MIP . Full details of the performance criteria 
and the basis of operation of the MIP are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 46 to 61.
Equity settled awards are settled by physical delivery of shares. The following equity settled awards have been granted:
Number of
instruments £’000 Date of grant Vesting period
Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 413,162 967 11 April 2014 4 years
Equity settled awards granted to former Directors of Marshalls plc 358,195 838 11 April 2014 4 years
Equity settled awards granted to other employees 657,699 1,539 11 April 2014 4 years
1,429,056 3,344 
Analysis of closing balance (deferred into shares):
£’000 Shares
Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 967 413,162
Equity settled awards granted to former Directors of Marshalls plc 838 358,195
Equity settled awards granted to other employees 1,539 657,699
3,344 1,429,056
Value Number of options Value Number of options
£’000 2014 £’000 2013
Outstanding at 1 January – – – –
Granted 3,344 1,429,056 – –
Change in value of notional shares – – – –
Element released – – – –
Outstanding at 31 December 3,344 1,429,056 – –
The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments were as follows:
2014 2013
£'000 £'000
Awards granted and total expense recognised as employee costs 2,471 –
Further details in relation to the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 61.
Employee profit sharing scheme
At 31 December 2014 the scheme held 42,370 (2013: 42,370) ordinary shares in the Company. Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
105
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
20 Deferred taxation
Recognised deferred taxation assets and liabilities 
Assets Liabilities
2014 2013 2014 2013
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment – – (12,934) (13,206)
Intangible assets – – (315) (335)
Inventories – – (450) (500)
Employee benefits – 869 (690) –
Equity settled share-based expenses 1,394 757 – –
Other items – – (577) (1,189)
Tax assets / (liabilities) 1,394 1,626 (14,966) (15,230)
The 2014 Budget on 19 March 2014 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 20 per cent by 2015. Reductions in the rate 
to 21 per cent (effective April 2014) and 20 per cent (effective April 2015) were substantially enacted, following the receipt of Royal Assent, 
in July 2014. This will reduce the Group's future current tax charge accordingly. The deferred taxation liability at 31 December 2014 has been 
calculated based on the rate of 20 per cent substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The deferred taxation liability of £690,000 (2013: £869,000 asset) in relation to employee benefits is in respect of the net surplus for the defined 
benefit obligations of £3,449,000 (2013: £4,347,000 net deficit) (Note 19) calculated at 20 per cent (2013: 20 per cent).
Deferred tax assets on capital losses have not been recognised due to uncertainty around the future use of the losses.
Movement in temporary differences
Year ended 31 December 2014
Recognised
in other
1 January Recognised comprehensive 31 December
2014 in income income 2014
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Property, plant and equipment (13,206) 272 – (12,934)
Intangible assets (335) 20 – (315)
Inventories (500) 50 – (450)
Employee benefits 869 (910) (649) (690)
Equity settled share-based expenses 757 177 460 1,394
Impact on other comprehensive income of the change 
in rate of deferred tax 367 – – 367
Other items (1,556) 29 583 (944)
(13,604) (362) 394 (13,572) Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
106
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
20 Deferred taxation continued
Movement in temporary differences continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
Recognised
in other
1 January Recognised comprehensive 31 December
2013 in income income 2013
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Property, plant and equipment (15,631) 2,425 – (13,206)
Intangible assets (390) 55 – (335)
Inventories (776) 276 – (500)
Employee benefits (1,890) (988) 3,747 869
Equity settled share-based expenses – 581 176 757
Impact on other comprehensive income of the change 
in rate of deferred tax 92 – 275 367
Other items (1,463) 193 (286) (1,556)
(20,058) 2,542 3,912 (13,604)
21 Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital
Issued and paid up
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
At 1 January and at 31 December 49,845 49,845
Number of 25 pence ordinary shares 199,378,755 199,378,755
Consolidation reserve
On 8 July 2004 Marshalls plc was introduced as the new holding company of the Group by way of a Court approved Scheme of Arrangement 
under Section 425 of the Companies Act 1985. The restructuring was accounted for as a capital reorganisation and accounting principles were 
applied as if the Company had always been the holding company of the Group. The difference between the aggregate nominal value of the 
new shares issued by the Company and the called up share capital, capital redemption reserve and share premium account of Marshalls Group 
plc (the previous holding company) was transferred to a consolidation reserve.
Hedging reserve
This represents the gains and losses arising on derivatives used for cash flow hedging, principally from the Group's interest rate swaps, energy 
price contracts and forward exchange contracts.
Dividends
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors. The dividends have not been provided and there were 
no income tax consequences.
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
4.00 pence (2013: 3.50 pence) per ordinary share 7,975 6,861
22 Non-controlling interests
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Non-controlling interests
At 1 January 3,295 3,884
Share of result for the period (1,634) (634)
Foreign currency transaction differences (186) 45
At 31 December 1,475 3,295 Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
107
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
23 Analysis of net debt
1 January Other 31 December
2014 Cash flow changes 2014
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Cash at bank and in hand 17,652 2,711 (43) 20,320
Debt due within one year (3,370) 3,370 – –
Debt due after one year (49,627) (1,536) 856 (50,307)
Finance leases (224) (282) 13 (493)
(35,569) 4,263 826 (30,480)
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Net increase in cash equivalents 2,711 6,534
Cash outflow from decrease in debt and lease financing 1,552 21,568
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations 826 (128)
Movement in net debt in the period 5,089 27,974
Net debt at 1 January (35,569) (63,543)
Net debt at 31 December (30,480) (35,569)
24 Operating leases 
The Group had non-cancellable minimum lease payments to be paid in respect of operating leases on property, plant, machinery and vehicles 
as follows:
6 months 6 – 12 More than
Total or less months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years
31 December 2014 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £’000 £'000
Expiring:
within one year 749 564 185 – – –
between one and five years 20,252 3,147 3,129 5,647 8,329 –
in more than five years 48,806 2,221 2,209 4,429 12,887 27,060
69,807 5,932 5,523 10,076 21,216 27,060
6 months 6 – 12 More than
Total or less months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years 5 years
31 December 2013 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £’000 £'000
Expiring:
within one year 1,025 799 226 – – –
between one and five years 20,477 2,918 2,902 5,213 9,444 –
in more than five years 31,430 788 784 1,573 4,873 23,412
52,932 4,505 3,912 6,786 14,317 23,412
The minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases (above) comprise property £29,134,000 (2013: £30,069,000) and plant, 
machinery and vehicles £40,673,000 (2013: £22,863,000).
Certain leased properties have been sublet by the Group. Sublease payments of £89,913 (2013: £106,371) are expected to be received during 
the following financial year. An amount of £121,014 (2013: £118,720) was recognised as income in the Consolidated Income Statement within 
net operating costs in respect of subleases. Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
108
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
25 Contingencies
Royal Bank of Scotland plc has issued, on behalf of Marshalls plc, the following irrevocable letters of credit relating to the Group’s cap on self 
insurance for employer's liability and vehicle insurance:
Beneficiary Amount Period Purpose
XL Winterthur £300,000 19 Dec 2003 to 31 Oct 2015 Employer's liability
Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (London Management) Limited £1,610,000 23 Dec 2011 to 31 Oct 2015 Employer's liability
Aviva Insurance Limited £350,000 19 Mar 2014 to 31 Oct 2015 Vehicle insurance
26 Related parties
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its Directors.
Transactions with key management personnel
Other than the Directors, there are no senior managers in the Group who are relevant for establishing that Marshalls has the appropriate 
expertise and experience for the management of its business.
Directors of the Company and their immediate relatives control 0.0003 per cent (2013: 0.24 per cent) of the voting shares of the Company. 
In addition to their salaries and pension allowances, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to Directors. Further details in relation to Directors 
are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 61.
27 Accounting estimates and judgements
Management discussed with the Audit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Group’s critical accounting policies and 
estimates and the application of these policies and estimates. The accounting policies are set out in Note 1 on pages 76 to 83.
Note 13 contains details of the Group's inventory. The carrying value of the Group's finished goods inventory has been reviewed using 
commercial judgement with regard to the assessment of the appropriate level of provisioning against inventory obsolescence.
Note 2 contains information about the assumptions and judgements made relating to the identification of operating segments for the Group 
as defined in IFRS 8 "Operating Segments".
In relation to the Group’s intangible fixed assets (Note 11) impairment tests have been undertaken using commercial judgement and a number 
of assumptions and estimates in relation to relevant trading volumes and margins. These estimates have been determined using the best 
available information derived from a combination of business specific analysis (both current and historic) and the latest available external 
industry forecasts. Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGUs to which goodwill has 
been allocated. The value in use calculation involves an estimation of the future cash flows of CGUs and also the selection of appropriate 
discount rates in order to calculate present values.
Note 19 contains information about the principal actuarial assumptions used in the determination of defined benefit pension obligations. 
These key assumptions include discount rates, the expected return on net assets, inflation rates and mortality rates and have been determined 
following advice received from an independent qualified actuary. Sensitivity analysis is disclosed in Note 19 on page 99.
Note 20 contains details of the Group's deferred taxation. Liabilities recognised are determined by reference to the likelihood of settlement 
and the likelihood that assets are received is based on assumptions of future actions. Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
109
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
 Restated*
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Loss for the financial year (4,908) (4,373)
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to the Income Statement
Deferred tax on share-based payments 95 301
Total items that will not be reclassified to the Income Statement 95 301
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of income tax 95 301
Total comprehensive expense for the period (4,813) (4,072)
* Restated for adoption of FRS 101 as explained in note 41.
Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
110
Share Capital
Share premium Own redemption Equity Retained Total
capital account shares reserve reserve earnings equity
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £’000 £'000
Current year
At 1 January 2014 (restated) 49,845 22,695 (9,512) 75,394 1,595 187,803 327,820
Loss for the financial year – – – – – (4,908) (4,908)
Other comprehensive income
Deferred tax on share-based payments – – – – 95 – 95
Total other comprehensive income – – – – 95 – 95
Total comprehensive expense for the period – – – – 95 (4,908) (4,813)
Transactions with owners, recorded directly 
in equity
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Share-based expenses – – – – 1,075 1,421 2,496
Dividends to equity shareholders – – – – – (10,791) (10,791)
Purchase of own shares – – (4,266) – – – (4,266)
Disposal of own shares – – 7,089 – – (7,089) –
Total contributions by and distributions 
to owners – – 2,823 – 1,075 (16,459) (12,561)
Total transactions with owners of the Company – – 2,823 – 1,170 (21,367) (17,374)
At 31 December 2014 49,845 22,695 (6,689) 75,394 2,765 166,436 310,446
Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2014 Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
111
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Share Capital
Share premium Own redemption Equity Retained Total
capital account shares reserve reserve earnings equity
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £’000 £'000
Prior year
At 1 January 2013 49,845 22,695 (9,571) 75,394 388 200,529 339,280
Loss for the financial year – – – – – (4,373) (4,373)
Other comprehensive income
Deferred tax on share-based payments – – – – 301 – 301
Total other comprehensive income – – – – 301 – 301
Total comprehensive income / (expense) 
for the period – – – – 301 (4,373) (4,072)
Transactions with owners, recorded directly 
in equity
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Share-based expenses – – – – 906 1,998 2,904
Dividends to equity shareholders – – – – – (10,292) (10,292)
Disposal of own shares – – 59 – – (59) –
Total contributions by and distributions 
to owners – – 59 – 906 (8,353) (7,388)
Total transactions with owners of the Company – – 59 – 1,207 (12,726) (11,460)
At 31 December 2013 (restated)* 49,845 22,695 (9,512) 75,394 1,595 187,803 327,820
* Restated for adoption of FRS 101 as explained in note 41.
 
Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity continued
for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
112
Restated*
2014 2013 2012
Notes £'000 £’000 £’000
Fixed assets
Investments 31 340,953 339,634 338,728
Deferred taxation assets 32 806 1,089 –
341,759 340,723 338,728
Current assets
Debtors 33 1,343 958 898
Current liabilities
Creditors 34 (32,656) (13,861) (346)
Net current (liabilities) / assets (31,313) (12,903) 552
Net assets 310,446 327,820 339,280
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 35 49,845 49,845 49,845
Share premium account 22,695 22,695 22,695
Own shares (6,689) (9,512) (9,571)
Capital redemption reserve 75,394 75,394 75,394
Equity reserve 2,765 1,595 388
Profit and loss account 166,436 187,803 200,529
Equity shareholders’ funds 310,446 327,820 339,280
* Restated for adoption of FRS 101 as explained in Note 41.
Approved at a Directors’ meeting on 6 March 2015.
On behalf of the Board:
M. Coffey   J.J. Clarke
Chief Executive   Finance Director
The Notes on pages 113 to 118 form part of these Company Financial Statements.
 
Company Balance Sheet
at 31 December 2014 Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
113
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
28 Accounting policies
The following paragraphs summarise the main accounting policies of the Company, which have been applied consistently in dealing with 
items which are considered material in relation to the Company’s Financial Statements. The Company is exempt from the requirement to give 
its own disclosures as the entity forms part of the Consolidated Financial Statements of Marshalls plc which has included disclosures under IFRS 
7 – "Financial Instruments: Disclosures".
(a) Authorisation of Financial Statements and Statement of Compliance with FRS 101
The Parent Company Financial Statements of Marshalls plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue by the Board of 
Directors on 6 March 2014. Marshalls plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in England 
and Wales. The Company’s ordinary shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange and the Company is not under the control of 
any single shareholder.
These Financial Statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 "Reduced Disclosure Framework ("FRS101").
No profit or loss is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
(b) Basis of preparation
The Company has transitioned to FRS 101 from the UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice for all periods presented. The Company has 
adopted FRS 101 early which is permitted under the standard. Transition tables showing all material adjustments are disclosed in Note 41.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2014.
In these Financial Statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures:
 — the requirements of paragraph 45(b) and 46-52 of IFRS 2 "Share-based Payments";
 — the requirement of IFRS 7 "Financial Instruments: Disclosures";
 — the requirement of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 "Fair Value Measurement";
 — the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 "Presentation of Financial Statements to present comparative information in respect of:
 Paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1";
 — the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f ), 16, 39(c), 40A, 40B, 40C, 40D, 111 and 134-136 of IAS 1 "Presentation of Financial Statements";
 — the requirements of IAS 7 "Statement of Cashflows";
 — the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 "Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors";
 — the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 "Related Party Disclosures";
 — the requirements in IAS 24 "Related Party Disclosures" to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members 
of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member; and
 — the requirements of paragraphs 134(d)-134(f ) and 135(c)-135(e) of IAS 36 "Impairment of Assets".
(c) Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are shown at cost less provision for impairment. The Directors consider annually whether 
a provision against the value of investments on an individual basis is required.  Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
114
28 Accounting policies continued
(d) Share capital
(i) Share capital
Share capital is classified as equity if it is non-redeemable and any dividends are discretionary, or is redeemable but only at the Company’s 
option. Dividends on share capital classified as equity are recognised as distributions within equity. Non-equity share capital is classified as 
a liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary. Dividends 
thereon are recognised in the Income Statement as a financial expense.
(ii) Dividends 
Dividends on non-equity shares are recognised as a liability and accounted for on an accruals basis. Equity dividends are recognised 
as a liability in the period in which they are declared (appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company).
(e) Pension schemes
(i) Defined benefit scheme 
The Company participates in a Group-wide pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. The defined benefit section 
of the Scheme was closed to future service accrual in July 2006.
The assets of the Scheme are held separately from those of the Company. The defined benefit cost and contributions payable are borne by 
Marshalls Group Limited and, therefore, the defined benefit surplus or deficit is recorded in Marshalls Group Limited. Full details are provided 
in note 19 on pages 99 to 102.
(ii) Defined contribution scheme
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
(f) Share-based payment transactions
The Company enters into equity settled share-based payment transactions with its employees. In particular, annual awards are made to 
employees under the Company's incentive schemes which include the Management Incentive Plan ("MIP") and, in previous years, the 
Performance Incentive Plan ("PIP") and the Long Term Incentive Plan ("LTIP").
These schemes allow employees to acquire shares in Marshalls plc. The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense 
with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees 
become unconditionally entitled to the options. Where appropriate, the fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black-Scholes 
option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an 
expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to 
be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that do meet the related service and 
non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
Current tax relief is available as shares vest based on the value at the date of vesting. A deferred tax asset is recognised at grant date based on 
the number of shares expected to be issued, at the value at which they are expected to be issued, proportioned in line with the vesting period.
(g) Own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust
Transactions of the Company-sponsored Employee Benefit Trust are included in the Group Financial Statements. In particular, the Trust’s 
purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
(h) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated at nominal amount (discounted if material).
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
115
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
28 Accounting policies continued
(i) Income tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred taxation. Income tax is recognised in the Income Statement except 
to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred taxation is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not 
provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, 
other than in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in 
the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred taxation provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary difference reverses, based on rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred taxation asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Deferred taxation assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. 
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
29 Operating costs
The audit fee for the Company was £20,000 (2013: £20,000). This is in respect of the audit of the Financial Statements. Fees paid to the 
Company's auditor for services other than the statutory audit of the Company are not disclosed in the notes to the Company Financial 
Statements since the consolidated accounts of the Group are required to disclose non-audit fees on a consolidated basis.
Details of Directors' remuneration, share options, long term incentive plans and Directors' pension entitlements are disclosed on pages 51 to 61 
of the Annual Remuneration Report.
30 Ordinary dividends: equity shares
2014 2013
pence per share £’000 pence per share £’000
2013 Final: paid 4 July 2014 3.50p 6,867 3.50p 6,861
2014 Interim: paid 5 December 2014 2.00p 3,924 1.75p 3,431
5.50p 10,791 5.25p 10,292
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors. The dividends have not been provided and there were 
no income tax consequences.
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
4.00 pence (2013: 3.50 pence) per ordinary share 7,975 6,861
31 Investments
£'000
At 1 January 2014 339,634
Additions 1,319
At 31 December 2014 340,953
Investments comprise shares in the subsidiary undertaking, Marshalls Group Limited. The Directors have considered the carrying value of the 
Company's investments and are satisfied that no provision is required.
The increase in the year of £1,319,000 represents adjustments to the number of shares expected to vest in respect of share-based payment 
awards granted to employees of Marshalls Group Limited. Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
116
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
31 Investments continued
Pursuant to Sections 409 and 410(2) of the Companies Act 2006, the principal subsidiary undertakings of Marshalls plc at 31 December 2014 
are set out below. With the exception of Marshalls NV, Xiamen Marshalls Import Export Company Limited and Marshalls Landscape Products 
(North America) Inc. all the companies operate within the United Kingdom and are registered in England and Wales. Marshalls NV is registered 
in Belgium. Xiamen Marshalls Import Export Company Limited is registered in China and Marshalls Landscape Products (North America) Inc. is 
registered in the USA.
Subsidiaries Principal activities Class of share % ownership
Marshalls Group Limited Intermediate holding company Ordinary 100
Marshalls Mono Limited* Landscape products manufacturer and supplier and 
quarry owner supplying a wide variety of paving, 
street furniture and natural stone products
Ordinary 100
Marshalls NV* Landscape products manufacturer and supplier Ordinary 66.7
Xiamen Marshalls Import Export 
Company Limited* Sourcing and distribution of natural stone products Ordinary 100
Marshalls Landscape Products 
(North America) Inc.* Landscape products supplier Ordinary 100
* held by subsidiary undertaking.
Marshalls NV is largely dependent on the continued support of Marshalls Mono Limited which has indicated that it intends to continue 
providing this support for the foreseeable future.
32 Deferred taxation
Recognised deferred taxation assets and liabilities
Assets Liabilities
Restated* Restated*
2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Equity settled share-based 
expense 806 1,089 – – – –
* Restated for adoption of FRS 101 as explained in note 41.
Movement in temporary differences
Recognised
Restated* in other
1 January Recognised comprehensive 31 December
2014 in income income 2014
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Year ended 31 December 2014
Equity settled share-based expense 1,089 (378) 95 806
* Restated for adoption of FRS 101 as explained in note 41.
33 Debtors
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Corporation tax 1,343 958
No debtors were due after more than one year.
34 Creditors
2014 2013
£’000 £'000
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 32,656 13,861 Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
117
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
35 Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital
As at 31 December 2014, the issued and fully paid-up share capital was as follows:
Issued and paid up
2014 nominal 2013 nominal
2014 value 2013 value
Number £'000 Number £'000
At 31 December 199,378,755 49,845 199,378,755 49,845
Equity reserve
The equity reserve represents the number of shares expected to vest in respect of share-based payment awards granted to employees of the Company.
36 Capital and leasing commitments
The Company had no capital or leasing commitments at 31 December 2014 or 31 December 2013.
37 Bank facilities
The Group's banking arrangements are in respect of Marshalls plc, Marshalls Group Limited and Marshalls Mono Limited with each company 
being nominated borrowers. The operational banking activities of the Group are undertaken by Marshalls Group Limited and the Group's bank 
debt is largely included in Marshalls Group Limited's balance sheet.
38 Contingent liabilities
Royal Bank of Scotland plc has issued, on behalf of Marshalls plc, the following irrevocable letters of credit relating to the Group’s cap on self 
insurance for employer's liability and vehicle insurance.
Beneficiary Amount Period Purpose
XL Winterthur £300,000 19 Dec 2003 to 31 Oct 2015 Employer's liability
Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (London Management) Limited £1,610,000 23 Dec 2011 to 31 Oct 2015 Employer's liability
Aviva Insurance Limited £350,000 19 Mar 2014 to 31 Oct 2015 Vehicle insurance
39 Pension scheme
The Company is the sponsoring employer of the Marshalls plc Pension Scheme (the "Scheme") which has both a defined benefit and a defined 
contribution section. The assets of the Scheme are held in separately managed funds which are independent of the Group’s finances. As set 
out in Note 19 the Group introduced a new defined contribution section to the Scheme to replace the existing defined benefit section which 
closed to future service accrual on 1 July 2006.
Full details of the Scheme are provided in Note 19. The Company is unable to identify its share of the Scheme assets and liabilities on a 
consistent and reasonable basis.
The latest funding valuation of the Scheme was carried out as at 6 April 2014 and was updated for the purposes of the 31 December 2014 
Financial Statements by a qualified independent actuary. Certain employees are members of the Company defined contribution Scheme, 
which invests funds in which the contributions for each individual member, are separately identifiable and the benefits calculated accordingly.
40 Accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of the Financial Statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions. Although these 
judgements and estimates are based on management’s best knowledge, actual results ultimately may differ from these estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and 
liabilities within the next financial year are disclosed below.
Note 19 contains information about the principal actuarial assumptions used in the determination of defined benefit pension obligations. 
These key assumptions include discount rates, the expected return on net assets, inflation rates and mortality rates and have been determined 
following advice received from an independent qualified actuary. Sensitivity analysis is disclosed in Note 19 on page 102.
Note 32 contains details of the Company’s deferred taxation. Liabilities recognised are determined by reference to the likelihood of settlement 
and the likelihood that assets are received is based on assumptions of future actions. Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
118
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
41 Transition to FRS 101
For all periods up to and including the year ended 31 December 2013 the Company prepared its Financial Statements in accordance with 
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice ("UK GAAP"). These Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 
are the first the Company has prepared in accordance with FRS 101 "Reduced Disclosure Framework".
The table below shows the restated prior year comparative figures for the Parent Company balance sheet as at 1 January 2013 and 
31 December 2013. The restatement reflects the retrospective adjustments required on first time adoption of FRS 101.
31 December 2013 1 January 2013
Impact of Impact of
Reported FRS 101 Restated Reported FRS 101 Restated
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Fixed assets
Investments 339,634 – 339,634 338,728 – 338,728
Deferred taxation assets 569 520 1,089 – – –
340,203 520 340,723 338,728 – 338,728
Current assets
Debtors: amounts falling due 
within one year 958 – 958 898 – 898
958 – 958 898 – 898
Creditors: amounts falling due 
within one year (13,861) – (13,861) (346) – (346)
Net (liabilities) / current assets (12,903) – (12,903) 552 – 552
Total assets less current 
liabilities 327,300 520 327,820 339,280 – 339,280
Creditors: amounts falling due 
after more than one year – – – – – –
Retirement benefit obligations – – – – – –
Provisions for liabilities other – – – – – –
Net assets 327,300 520 327,820 339,280 – 339,280
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 49,845 – 49,845 49,845 – 49,845
Share premium 22,695 – 22,695 22,695 – 22,695
Own shares (9,512) – (9,512) (9,571) – (9,571)
Capital redemption reserve 75,394 – 75,394 75,394 – 75,394
Equity reserve 1,463 132 1,595 388 – 388
Retained earnings 187,415 388 187,803 200,529 – 200,529
Total equity 327,300 520 327,820 339,280 – 339,280
Restatement from UK GAAP to FRS 101
Deferred tax asset and provision for liabilities
Deferred tax has been restated to take into account temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax base of assets and 
liabilities for taxation purposes and their carrying amounts in the Financial Statements, rather than timing differences. On restatement, 
temporary differences have been recognised in respect of equity settled share-based expenses.
42 Related parties
Related party relationships exist with other members of the Group. All operating costs are borne by Marshalls Group Limited and are re-charged 
to Marshalls plc in respect of specifically attributable costs. All related party transactions were made on terms equivalent to those that prevail 
in arm's length transactions. Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
119
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to
December 2010** December 2011* December 2012** December 2013* December 2014
£'000 £'000 £'000 £’000 £’000
Consolidated Income Statement 
Revenue 299,934 325,112 300,938 307,390 358,516
Net operating costs (288,962) (310,117) (288,087) (291,300) (333,211)
Operating profit (before operational restructuring and 
works closure costs, goodwill and intangible asset 
impairments) 10,972 14,995 12,851 16,090 25,305
Operational restructuring and works closure costs, 
goodwill and intangible asset impairments – – (21,521) – –
Operating profit / (loss) 10,972 14,995 (8,670) 16,090 25,305
Financial income and expenses (net) (2,563) (3,007) (3,578) (3,064) (2,884)
Profit before tax (before operational restructuring and 
works closure costs, goodwill and intangible asset 
impairments and redemption of debenture) 8,409 11,988 9,273 13,026 22,421
Profit / (loss) before tax 8,409 11,988 (12,248) 13,026 22,421
Income tax (expense) / credit (1,638) (1,071) 5,874 (67) (4,198)
Profit / (loss) for the financial period before post tax 
loss of discontinued operations 6,771 10,917 (6,374) 12,959 18,223
Post tax profit / (loss) of discontinued operations 579 (3,661) 676 503 –
Profit / (loss) for the financial period 7,350 7,256 (5,698) 13,462 18,223
Profit / (loss) for the period attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent 7,350 7,390 (5,684) 14,096 19,857
Non-controlling interests – (134) (14) (634) (1,634)
7,350 7,256 (5,698) 13,462 18,223
EBITA 12,405 16,174 (7,423) 17,028 26,536
EBITDA 29,101 32,413 6,538 30,227 38,518
EBITA before operational restructuring and 
works closure costs, goodwill and intangible 
asset impairments 12,405 16,174 14,098** 17,028 26,536
EBITDA before operational restructuring and 
works closure costs, goodwill and intangible 
asset impairments 29,101 32,413 28,059** 30,227 38,518
Earnings per share (pence)
Basic: (continuing operations) 3.46 5.66 (3.26) 6.94 10.13
Basic: (total operations) 3.76 3.78 (2.91) 7.20 10.13
Basic continuing operations: (before operational 
restructuring and works closure costs, goodwill and 
intangible asset impairments and redemption 
of debenture) 3.46 5.66 5.52** 6.94 10.13
Dividends per share (pence) – IFRS 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.50
Dividend cover (times) – IFRS (continuing) 0.66 1.08 1.12** 1.32 1.84
Dividends per share (pence) – traditional 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25 6.00
Dividend cover (times) – traditional (continuing) 0.66 1.08 1.12** 1.32 1.69
Year end share price (pence) 104.8 90.5 97.5 176.25 234.0
Tax rate (%) 19.5 8.9 (16.3)** 0.5 18.7
* the comparatives have been restated in respect of discontinued operations.
** before operational restructuring and works closure costs, goodwill and intangible asset impairments and redemption of debenture.
Financial History – Consolidated Group Financial Statements
Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
120
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
£'000 £'000 £'000 £’000 £’000
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
Non-current assets 236,906 249,271 225,882 198,082 195,951
Current assets 113,610 128,640 116,735 120,832 119,897
Total assets 350,516 377,911 342,617 318,914 315,848
Current liabilities (94,616) (88,550) (64,440) (74,137) (68,273)
Non-current liabilities (57,660) (83,297) (94,603) (69,345) (65,681)
Net assets 198,240 206,064 183,574 175,432 181,894
Net borrowings (66,841) (77,101) (63,543) (35,569) (30,480)
Gearing ratio 33.7% 37.4% 34.6% 20.3% 16.8%
Financial History – Consolidated Group continued 121
Strategic Report Corporate Governance
Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Shareholder Information
Shareholder analysis at 31 December 2014
Number of Number of
Size of shareholding shareholders % ordinary shares %
1 to 500 1,951 41.84 289,353 0.14
501 to 1,000 574 12.31 433,067 0.22
1,001 to 2,500 753 16.15 1,283,802 0.64
2,501 to 5,000 535 11.47 1,906,051 0.95
5,001 to 10,000 350 7.51 2,494,224 1.25
10,001 to 25,000 196 4.20 3,103,880 1.56
25,001 to 100,000 150 3.22 7,407,112 3.72
100,001 to 250,000 55 1.18 8,663,814 4.35
250,001 to 500,000 34 0.73 13,144,824 6.59
500,001 and above 65 1.39 160,652,628 80.58
4,663 100.0 199,378,755 100.0
Financial calendar
Preliminary Announcement of results for the year ended 31 December 2014 Announced  6 March 2015 
Annual General Meeting        20 May 2015 
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014    Payable  3 July 2015 
Half-yearly results for the year ending 31 December 2015   Announcement  27 August 2015 
Half-yearly dividend for the year ending 31 December 2015   Payable   4 December 2015 
Results for the year ending 31 December 2015    Announcement  Early March 2016
Advisers
Stockbrokers
Peel Hunt
Numis Securities Limited
Auditor
KPMG LLP
Legal advisers
Herbert Smith LLP
Eversheds LLP
Pinsent Masons LLP
Financial advisers
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
Bankers
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc
Barclays Bank plc 
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZZ
Shareholders’ enquiries should be addressed to the Registrars at the 
above address (tel: 0870 707 1134).
Registered office
Landscape House
Premier Way, 
Lowfields Business Park, Elland, 
Halifax HX5 9HT
West Yorkshire
Telephone: 01422 306400
Website:
www.marshalls.co.uk
Registered in England and Wales: No. 5100353
  Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Marshalls plc, Landscape House, 
Premier Way, Lowfields Business Park, 
Elland HX5 9HT
The Group's commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this 
Annual Report which has been printed on Symbol Freelife Satin which is 
a mixed source FSC® certified and ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) material. 
This is a certified CarbonNeutral® publication. Printed in the UK by Park 
Communications, using their environmental printing technology; 
vegetable inks were used throughout. Both the manufacturing mill and the 
printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 
and are Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC) chain-of-custody certified.  Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
