 Mears Group PLC    Annual report and accounts 2010
Mears Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2010 
Success through 
partnerships Mears is... a leading provider 
of integrated social housing 
maintenance and domiciliary care
Mears’ success is built on strong, long term partnerships with 
Local Authorities and Housing Associations, as well as with community 
groups, supply chain partners, staff and investors. 
We believe the future requires new partnerships to be built, that link  
together housing, social care and the NHS. Partnerships that will provide 
integrated services which improve customer outcomes, as well as helping 
to meet the financial challenges that exist. Mears is uniquely placed to 
support this new integration and we welcome the opportunities that this 
will bring to the benefit of all our partners.
Partnerships in action
Turn to our Chief Executive Officer’s Review to read more about some 
of Mears’ strong partnerships and the benefits they are bringing page 8 Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 01
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Group revenue (£m)
+11%
£523.9m
Dividends per share (p)
+18%
6.75p
Diluted earnings per share** (p)
+8%
23.38p
Operating profit* (£m)
+27%
£31.3m
Order book growth (£bn)
+35%
£2.7bn
What’s inside
Review of the year 
Highlights 01
Mears at a glance  02
Chairman’s statement  04 
Chief executive officer’s review 08
Financial review 14
Corporate social responsibility 20
Corporate governance 
Board of directors 22
Shareholder and corporate information 24
Financial calendar 24
Report of the directors 25
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 30
Corporate governance statement 31
Remuneration report 38
Report of the independent auditor 47
Financial statements
Group accounts 49
Principal accounting policies – group 50
Consolidated income statement  59
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 60
Consolidated balance sheet 61
Consolidated cash flow statement 62
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 63
Notes to the financial statements – group  64
Company accounts  90
Principal accounting policies – company 91
Parent company balance sheet 93
Notes to the financial statements – company 94
Visit us online
ar10. 
mearsgroup. 
co.uk
  Download centre including PDFs and 
excel spreadsheets 
  In depth case study section
420.4
08
470.1
09
523.9
10
304.6
07
241.4
06
4.75
08
5.70
09
6.75
10
4.00
07
3.30
06
18.99
08
21.61
09
23.38
10
16.40
07
13.63
06
21.0
08
24.8
09
31.3
10
17.1
07
12.5
06
1.6
08
2.0
09
2.7
10
1.4
07
1.1
06
*  Before exceptional items and before amortisation 
of acquisition intangibles.
**  Based on normalised earnings before exceptional 
items and the amortisation of acquisition intangibles 
together with an adjustment to reflect a full 
tax charge.
Highlights 02 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Mears at a glance
Mears is…
the market leader in 
two growth markets 
We maintain and improve homes as well as care for the 
people who live in them.
Every day we carry out more than 4,000 repairs to people’ s homes. 
We also deliver over 8 million hours of care to people in need. 
For these people, the things that matter most are that we keep 
our promises and deliver a quality service.
Repairs made every day
>4,000
We provide response and planned maintenance services to Local Authorities and 
other Registered Social Landlords to a portfolio of over 500,000 homes nationwide. 
Our work covers everything from small repairs, through to large scale refurbishment, 
including improving the energy efficiency of the homes that we serve.
We are leaders in terms of the number of repairs that we carry out but more importantly 
in the quality of service that we deliver and the innovative approach that we take 
to improving long term value for money through a partnering based approach.
We will continue to lead this sector through: 
  Further development of the Mears in-sourcing model to provide support to clients 
where a fully outsourced solution is not appropriate 
  Positioning Mears for emerging environmental opportunities utilising the British Gas 
partnership, increasing the energy efficiency of the social housing stock and 
addressing the fuel poverty agenda 
  Continued investment in middle management development to build for future 
business leaders 
 Building strength in Scotland and Wales 
Social Housing Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
54.6
08
60.1
09
100.4
10
28.7
07
Domiciliary Care revenue* (£m)
+67%
£100.4m
Hours of care delivered per annum
282.0
08
355.3
09
379.4
10
205.6
07 06
184.0
Social Housing revenue (£m)
+7%
£379.4m
 Read more
 ar10.mearsgroup.co.uk
>8,000,000
*  The Domiciliary Care division was established 
in 2007.
Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 03
We provide care to over 20,000 elderly and vulnerable people in their own homes, 
largely through contracts with Local Authorities. This is delivered through a highly 
skilled workforce of over 7,000 care workers. The service is personalised to the needs 
of individuals and includes support with mobility, hygiene, medication and simply 
staying connected to the communities in which that person lives.
Our unique approach towards integrating services for the home with care for the individual, 
combined with excellent operational management and increasingly efficient operational 
delivery, has established Mears as a leader in the sector.
We will continue to lead this sector through: 
 Continued focus on achieving service integration 
 Engaging with political stakeholders to influence political and policy direction 
  Continued investment in middle management development to build for future 
business leaders 
  Development of new Care IT platform generating opportunities for improved 
efficiencies for us and our clients
Domiciliary Care 04 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Chairman’s statement
Mears is…
leading the way
Summary of the year
Revenue
In a year of tremendous success in new contract bidding 
and an unprecedented number of new contract 
mobilisations, revenue increased by 11% to £523.9m. 
Order book
Our order book stands at £2.7 billion and the demand 
for our services continues to be very strong with a bid 
pipeline of £3.0 billion.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.85p 
per share making 6.75p per share for the year, an 
increase of 18%. 
Strong cash generation
Cash generated from operations as a proportion of 
the profit for the year (before tax and amortisation) 
amounted to 97% (2009: 109%), with a net debt 
position at the year end of £12.2m.
Bob Holt
Chairman
“ In this watershed year, we have consolidated our market 
leading position in our selected growth markets. We are 
well positioned commercially, operationally and financially 
to seek and capitalise on the many opportunities.”
 Read this Chairman’s Statement online
 ar10.mearsgroup.co.uk/chairmansstatement Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 05
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
It gives me great pleasure to announce another record year 
in both revenue and operating profit before amortisation 
and exceptional items. 15 years of uninterrupted growth 
in revenue, profits and cash generation speak for themselves. 
The Mears management team has worked together for 
many years focusing on providing first class, value-for-money 
customer service through our partnership ethos. This has 
been rewarded in the significant success we have achieved 
in new contract bidding and the number of exciting new 
opportunities that are within our sales pipeline.
Strong results and cash generation
In the year ended 31 December 2010, revenue increased 
by 11% to £523.9m and operating profit before amortisation 
and exceptional items rising by 27% to £31.3m. Revenues 
in Social Housing grew by 7% and in Domiciliary Care 
increased by 67%, bolstered by the acquisition of 
Supporta plc. In a year of tremendous success in new 
contract bidding and an unprecedented number of new 
contract mobilisations, the normalised diluted earnings 
per share still increased by 8.2% to 23.38p. The Board is 
recommending a final dividend of 4.85p per share 
making 6.75p per share for the year, an increase of 
18.4%. This is the second year that we have increased 
the dividend well ahead of earnings which reflects the 
Board’s confidence in the future opportunities in our 
growth markets. 
Of particular note is our strong cash generation. Cash 
generated from operations as a proportion of the profit 
for the year (before tax and amortisation) amounted to 
97% (2009: 109%), with a net debt position at the year 
end of £12.2m. During a particularly active period in terms 
of new contract mobilisations, where one might anticipate 
a higher requirement for cash, it is a credit to the strength 
of our working capital management that we can report 
such robustness.
Record levels of contracts
This was a watershed year for Mears Group, the market 
leader in social housing and domiciliary care. We have 
won a record level of contracts in both divisions and we 
completed the acquisition of Supporta, thus cementing 
our leading position in domiciliary care, a market that 
continues to grow as care in the home is by far the most 
affordable solution for Local Authorities. Throughout our 
history we have sought to build a profitable long term 
platform for growth based on the fundamentals of our 
business model and the key drivers which protect both 
our revenue flow and our ability to build continually for 
the long term. The social housing sector has recently seen 
a number of very public corporate failures. A contributing 
factor to these failures was and continues to be the 
practice of tendering at unsustainable prices which leads 
to consequences that benefit no one. When businesses 
fail, tenants are left without essential services and 
employees lose their jobs. Fortunately for all concerned, 
Mears’ long term partnership approach and financial and 
operational discipline means that it is well placed to ‘pick 
up the pieces’ from competitor failures.
It has always been fundamental to the success of our 
Social Housing division to ensure that we have the best 
operators in the sector. Until these recent corporate failures, 
I do not believe the quality of our operations received 
sufficient recognition. I am delighted to now be in 
a position whereby I feel the quality of the operational 
team within our Domiciliary Care division can now match 
that of their Social Housing colleagues. The quality of 
management acquired with Supporta has exceeded our 
expectations. Bernadette Walsh, now Managing Director 
of the combined Mears Care, shares the Mears ethos 
of customer service at the fore, whilst maintaining a strong 
commercial awareness which is crucial to sustained 
success in a low margin, blue collar service environment.
6.75p
total dividend
The Board is recommending 
a final dividend of 4.85p per 
share making 6.75p per share 
for the year, an increase 
of 18.4%
Success through partnerships
We have, in the current financial climate, an increased 
responsibility to continue to demonstrate how a long term 
partnering based approach, combined with greater services 
integration, is the most effective way to respond to the 
challenges faced by many Registered Social Landlords. 
  Turn to page 8 for more 06 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Chairman’s statement
continued
Long term partnerships
We have, in the current financial climate, an increased 
responsibility to continue to demonstrate how a long 
term partnering based approach, combined with greater 
services integration, is the most effective way to respond 
to the challenges faced by many Local Authorities, 
Housing Associations and Landlords. This has always 
been our approach and one which is even more relevant 
today. Following the results of HM Government’s 
Comprehensive Spending Review, we believe that our 
Social Housing operations will continue to benefit from 
increased outsourcing opportunities in the sector as 
Local Authorities look to achieve further efficiency gains, 
particularly in the supply of essential repair and 
maintenance services. The significant majority of our 
Social Housing revenues are non-discretionary spend 
for services which our clients have a legal obligation to 
provide. The changes to the system for housing benefit 
will, in our opinion, promote the migration away from 
private dwellings towards social housing. The changes to 
the housing finance system is providing Local Authorities 
with opportunities to invest further in their housing stock 
which can only be positive for the leading service providers. 
In addition, commitments have been made to build 
150,000 new Social Homes and to meet funding 
commitments on the Decent Homes Programme. 
We continue to be highly selective on our bidding 
approach looking to build and reinforce long term 
partnerships that will be of value to the residents 
and our clients.
Social Housing – market leadership
Our Social Housing division has long been recognised 
as a market leader in terms of operational performance 
and tenant satisfaction. Our differentiated offering is 
focussed on quality of service and tenant facing value 
for money services which clients are able to measure. 
In a period of austerity, where our clients are suffering 
budgetary constraints, it has been encouraging that 
we continue to find clients procuring services with 
a bias towards value and quality rather than purely 
on price considerations.
Domiciliary Care – well positioned
Mears is well placed to lead and consolidate the domiciliary 
care market which, in procurement terms, is several years 
behind the more developed social housing market. We can 
use the experience gained in social housing to enhance 
the market efficiencies in domiciliary care and share 
the benefits with our clients. T argeted acquisitions will 
be considered which broaden the diversity of Mears’ 
Domiciliary Care offering along the services supply chain 
and expand the range of services we are able to provide 
to people in their own homes. Mears’ clients will benefit 
from a national platform for the provision of an enhanced 
quality service.
Record order book – bid pipeline
Our order book stands at £2.7 billion and the demand 
for our services continues to be very strong with a bid 
pipeline of £3.0 billion. We are well placed to benefit 
from these trends and are confident that the demand 
and opportunity for our two growth markets will continue 
to be strong. We enter the current year with visibility of 
93% of the £625m consensus revenue forecast for 2011. 
We also have visibility of 80% of the £666m consensus 
revenue forecast for 2012.
Board changes
I was delighted to hand over the business in good health 
to David Miles in November 2010 who was appointed 
Chief Executive Officer (CEO). David has been instrumental 
in the growth and development of Mears from a regional 
provider of services with just five branches to the market 
leading Group that Mears is today. He has an unparalleled 
track record of delivering complex contracts and managing 
client relationships with his customer-centric philosophy. 
Over the past three years David has also built a strong 
operational team which will support him in his new role 
as CEO. David has been selected after a rigorous process 
of succession planning which has involved discussions 
with major shareholders and customers. The process 
has been underway internally for some time resulting 
in a stable and smooth transition. I will continue in my 
role of Chairman.
Mears has an on-going agenda of seeking to achieve high 
standards in corporate governance and early in 2010 
I was delighted to welcome to the Board Davida Marston 
and Rory Macnamara, who have brought to the team 
a wealth of experience from which the Group is benefiting. 
It would be remiss of me to ignore the tremendous 
contribution made to the Group by Reg Pomphrett who 
stepped down as a Director at the last Annual General 
Meeting (AGM). Reg, a former City regulator, ensured 
we were compliant on every aspect of public company 
life during his 14 year tenure. I am delighted that Reg has 
accepted the offer to continue to serve the company 
as Group Company Secretary. I would also highlight 
the huge contribution made to the Group by our Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director, Michael Macario. 
It is Michael’s intention to also step down at our next 
AGM in June 2011, at which time Peter Dicks will assume 
the role of Senior Independent Director.
£2.7bn
Our order book stands at 
£2.7 billion and the demand 
for our services continues to be 
very strong with a bid pipeline 
of £3.0 billion Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 07
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Outlook
The demand for our services continues to be very strong. 
Our two growth markets, social housing and domiciliary 
care, are robust defensive sectors where spend is largely 
non-discretionary. We continue to place great emphasis 
on winning good quality contracts that can provide clear 
and sustainable margins whilst at the same time providing 
a first class service and value offering for our clients.
We are mindful of the need to ensure that the public 
sector receives the best value for money. The public 
sector faces unprecedented fiscal challenges which 
are made all the more difficult by rising consumer 
expectations and an ageing population. Mears’ response 
is simple; to ensure efficiencies are realised wherever 
possible and working in partnership with our clients 
so that we continue to improve the quality of services 
delivered. The coalition Government has a difficult task 
to maintain public services whilst reducing a huge fiscal 
deficit. We anticipate challenges in 2011 and 2012 but 
through our commitment to working in partnership, 
the Group will remain well positioned.
Our focus for Social Housing will be to continue growing 
through further contract wins, expand the geographic 
coverage through targeted acquisitions of regional 
businesses with existing relationships with Registered 
Social Landlords and on-going innovation through further 
partnerships, such as that with British Gas. For Domiciliary 
Care, we will seek acquisitions that increase our ability 
to respond to the expected growing opportunities 
from NHS outsourcing and the increasing role General 
Practitioners will have in commissioning services locally.
We have a demonstrable track record of improving 
underdeveloped, inefficient markets for the benefit 
of customers, staff and investors. Lastly, we have the 
right management team in place to take our business 
forward and capitalise on the many opportunities in 
our growth markets.
I commend our employees for their commitment 
and energy throughout another significant year for 
the Group and I look forward to bringing you news 
of further successes during the coming year.
Bob Holt
bob.holt@mearsgroup.co.uk
Chairman
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
Our balanced scorecard approach ensures that the Group targets its resources 
around its customers, community, employees, operations and finance. Here 
are some of our financial and non-financial KPIs. For more information see 
the Directors’ Report on page 25.
British Gas partnership
This unique partnership brings funds, asset management 
planning and full implementation to our clients. The 
partnership addresses issues of carbon reduction and fuel 
poverty within Social Housing. We are well placed to help 
implement Government plans under its “Green Deal” 
commitment through the next decade. 
 Turn to page 8 for more
Social Housing revenue Profit cash conversion 
Domiciliary Care revenue
97%
+67%
to £379.4m
to £100.4m
(2009: 109%)
+8%
to 23.38p
+7%
Jobs completed on time 
91%
New contract bidding success 
rate (by value) 
40%
Normalised diluted earnings 
per share  08 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Mears is…
a strategic partner
“ Reforms of the rental system, and greater freedom for 
Local Authorities to retain and source their own funding, 
will enable them to generate more income.”
David Miles
Chief Executive Officer
 Read this Chief Executive Officer’s Review online
 ar10.mearsgroup.co.uk/chiefexecutiveofficersreview
Summary of the year
Social Housing
Awarded over £750m of new Social Housing contracts 
and entered into British Gas partnership to jointly 
address energy efficiency challenges. 
Domiciliary Care
Award of significant contracts, with an estimated value 
of £40m, reflects a trend towards awarding contracts to 
providers with an excellent quality and delivery reputation.
Completed acquisition and integration of Supporta plc. 
Main focus to develop new Care IT platform, generating 
opportunities for improved efficiencies for us and our clients.
Care and repair
T aking opportunities to provide integrated housing and 
care service, combining branches where possible. 
Completed acquisition of group of Anchor Housing 
Home Improvement Agencies, which play a vital role 
in keeping people in their own homes for longer.   
Other services
Our Mechanical and Electrical business continued 
to make profit on back of a resilient housing market 
in Docklands. Integrating services 
around the customer
Mears is committed to delivering 
domiciliary care seamlessly alongside 
housing repair and maintenance, 
providing a platform for change 
which will improve service provision, 
meet stakeholder needs and deliver 
substantial cost savings. 1.  Cross Keys Homes and Mears 
Peterborough Partnership
Cross Keys Homes (CKH) manages 10,000 homes 
in the City of Peterborough with a broad range 
of properties for single people, older people 
and families. 
In 2004, CKH awarded Mears its five-year Decent 
Homes contract for the renewal of kitchens, 
bathrooms and central heating systems. In 2008 
Mears secured a ten-year responsive repairs 
contract with the option to extend for five years.
Claire Higgins, CKH
“We have worked with Mears since the stock transfer from 
Peterborough City Council in 2004, initially on the Decent Homes 
contract. In 2007 we went out to tender for responsive repairs, 
maintenance and voids and, unusually at the time, added a full 
list of service requirements for housing including: 24/7 service 
and repairs for gas, LPG and oil heating systems and appliances; 
cyclical maintenance; major improvement works; electrical testing; 
and environmental works, including parking areas, paving, access 
and grounds maintenance.
“Putting all our eggs in one basket and awarding the contract to 
a single supplier could be perceived as a financial and/or service risk 
to the Association. In order to protect the interests of our residents 
and safeguard the integrity of CKH the contract is run on an ‘open 
book’ arrangement so there is complete cost transparency. Service 
quality and improvement data is benchmarked and in the last 
Housemark report, CKH was in the upper quartile of the group of 
35 organisations, which included ALMOs, Local Authorities and other 
Housing Associations, for all but two indicators. Our tenants showed 
the highest level of satisf action in our group.”
“ The partnership with Mears is a    
 Partnership Plus. Our repairs call centre  
 is based at Mears’ local office and, as   
 well as the day to day partnering on   
 the contract, we also partner in the   
 community and look for projects  
 that we can work on together  
 to support local people.”  Read more on this partnership
 ar10.mearsgroup.co.uk/crosskeyshomes
The partnership with Mears is a Partnership Plus. Our repairs call 
centre is based at Mears’ local office and, as well as the day to day 
partnering on the contract, we also partner in the community and look 
for projects that we can work on together to support local people.”
By creating a partnership model and giving Mears responsibility for 
complete service delivery, CKH has been able to reduce resources and 
significantly reduce maintenance costs. Within the first two years the 
partnership has delivered savings of £4m with responsive maintenance 
costs reduced from £6.9m to £5.5m per annum. As well as the financial 
benefits, service innovations are delivering more efficient and 
better services.
CKH’s call centre has relocated to Mears’ premises and this facilitates 
coordination of activity between the call takers and Mears schedulers, 
which is improving efficiency and enabling the schedulers to optimise 
operator time. This system maximises individual productivity while 
keeping tenants happy with a more efficient service. Since April 2010 
99.8% of jobs are completed on time and 100% of emergencies.
CKH’s personnel take the calls using the QL Housing Management 
System which connects to Mears Contract Management (MCM). 
Once a call is entered, MCM is automatically updated. CKH’s call 
takers give an appointment time on the spot for 82% of calls. 
The rest – mainly for external works or communal areas where home 
access appointments are necessary – are scheduled by Mears. 
Optitime, a dynamic diary management system, picks up appointments 
and selects operators for the best use of time and skills.
The partnership has introduced a number of 
innovations which are reducing operational costs: 
	 	 Mears has taken on the voids letting process – delays 
in letting voids has a significant cost implication from 
loss of rent revenue. Mears has control over the key 
to key time and has taken over the letting function. 
CKH is getting faster rental returns together with 
reduced management costs. Void costs have 
reduced from £1,085 to £980 per property, 
saving £94,500 per annum;
	 	 Mears is now responsible for maintaining communal 
areas which is reducing contractor overheads; 
	 	 Mears installs basic aids and adaptations and, as part 
of the repairs and maintenance contract, has taken 
over responsibility for the management of fly-tipping, 
pest control and graffiti eradication; and 
	 	 a pilot scheme using photovoltaic panels to provide 
free sustainable energy has been set up.
  Our aim
By taking responsibility for complete service delivery 
we are aiming to deliver year on year cost savings 
through innovation and improved efficiency while at 
the same time continuously improving service quality.
  What the partnership offers
Shared resources, co-location and a single contractor 
responsible for all services facilitates innovation and 
flexibility. Complete cost transparency and rigorous 
benchmarking protect client and tenant interests. 
  How tenants benefit
Mears operatives work in people’s homes and in the 
local community on a daily basis and are CKH’s eyes 
and ears. They understand the tenants’ needs and 
help deliver service excellence. 2.  Wigan Care re‑enablement
In order to reduce expenditure while continuing 
to meet Government objectives to keep older 
people living independently in their own 
homes, local care providers are introducing 
re-enablement programmes for selected 
service users. 
In Wigan, Mears is partnering with the Council 
on a re-enablement programme that is helping 
minimise the effect of budget cuts on service 
provision for adult care.
Re-enablement encourages people to do more for themselves. 
It provides them with help and support to gradually increase their own 
capabilities with the view of reducing the number, or length, of care 
visits they need. This can be a challenge for the care workers delivering 
the programme as people become accustomed to having certain 
things done for them and lose belief and confidence in their ability 
to do it for themselves. When the programme was introduced both 
client and care teams expected considerable resistance to changes 
in people’s routine and took this into account when designing the 
programme and training the care workers.
An initial trial took place in 2010 with two service users 
(Mrs G and Mr M), who were identified by Mears as being willing 
to participate and able to cope without suffering undue stress. 
Mears began by developing its own re-enablement training plan 
with the support of Wigan Metropolitan Borough Council’s (MBC)’s 
Re-enablement Manager. Care workers were trained to understand 
and introduce re-enablement strategies. The pilot was an 
outstanding success for everyone involved, and particularly for 
the two participating service users.
Mrs G had a 30 minute morning call every day for a full body wash 
which she did not believe she could manage herself – she had had this 
support for more than two years. Mr M had a morning call to cook him 
breakfast every day and also believed he could not do it himself  because he found it painful to stand. He had also had this care service 
for more than two years. The aim was to try to get both service users 
taking back some of their care within a six week period.
Both service users understood the aims of the project and willingly 
co-operated. Equipment was provided by Wigan MBC, including a 
long-handled back scrubber for Mrs G to wash herself, and a perching 
stool for Mr M to help him sit in his kitchen while he prepared his 
breakfast. By the end of the six weeks both were able to do more 
for themselves and were enjoying an enhanced sense of freedom 
and control, relying less on care to begin their day. At the end of the 
pilot Mrs G’s morning call was reduced to 15 minutes and Mr M’s care 
package was cancelled completely as he could manage and enjoy 
making his own breakfast.
Following the successful trial all Mears Wigan care workers have been 
trained in re-enablement and it is now part of the induction training 
course for all new care workers. The Care team is working closely with 
occupational therapists and physiotherapists and for the service 
users are being re-assessed for the re-enablement process to 
reduce their care needs. Three service users have come out of 
domiciliary care completely. From June 2011 all new cases will 
go through an initial re-enablement process with their social 
worker.  There is a heavy initial investment of resources but the 
long term effect is to increase independence and free up  
resources to ensure that more people with critical needs get 
the support that they cannot do without.
 Read more on this partnership
 ar10.mearsgroup.co.uk/wigancare
  Our aim
To support and empower people to do more for 
themselves which will in turn free up hard-pressed 
resources for others with critical care needs.
  What the partnership offers
Working together in a local care and healthcare 
partnership to provide a balance of services, aids 
and adaptations to ensure people can live safely 
and independently at home.
  Service user benefits
Having the support and equipment required to take 
back control gives a greater sense of freedom, dignity 
and self-esteem. [
3.  Sedgefield Borough Homes
Sedgefield Borough Homes (SBH), based in 
North East England, is a Registered Social Landlord 
responsible for 8,555 homes. SBH was formed in 
March 2009 following the large scale voluntary 
transfer of Local Authority housing from 
Sedgefield Borough Council.  
Mears was appointed by the Council in 
November 2007 as its strategic partner under 
the umbrella of ‘Partnering for Construction 
Services’. The contract was novated to SBH 
in April 2009, with Mears as the sole delivery 
partner for voids and responsive repairs, Decent 
Homes, cyclical maintenance, gas servicing 
and grass cutting, for all 8,500 properties. 
115 council staff transferred to Mears under TUPE arrangements. 
Following a further successful tender exercise, Mears is also delivering 
50% of SBH’s Major Improvement Programme (from July 09) 
to undertake property modernisation where needed. This includes 
whole house refurbishments such as kitchen, bathroom, heating 
systems, rewires, internal and external doors, roof coverings and 
environmental improvements.
From the outset the working model was set up as a three way 
collaborative partnership between SBH, Mears and its tenants 
through the tenant representation bodies. Sedgefield Borough 
Homes’ overall objective is to achieve a VFM 3* R&M Service through 
on-going delivery improvements while achieving value for money, 
i.e. more for less.
Mears is achieving efficiency savings by remodelling the service 
provision to produce better outcomes and reduce costs. The estimated 
saving will be £2.5m over the duration of the five-year contract.   Our aim
We aim to use Mears’ innovation, service delivery 
expertise and buying power to maximise tenant 
experience and satisfaction on behalf of our 
client, SBH.
  What the partnership offers
This is a three way partnership between SBH, 
its tenants and Mears with continuous dialogue 
and feedback that inform strategic and 
operational decisions.
  How tenants benefit
Individual tenant needs and wishes are taken into 
account and through regular intercourse with tenant 
bodies they have a real say in shaping their services.
[
The partnership
Mears’ planners and schedulers sit in the client’s call centre; the 
client team set up appointments for priority or emergency repairs. 
Their Orchard Housing Management System interfaces with Mears 
Contract Management, so jobs are automatically sent across the 
system. As staff are co-located they can work together to best plan 
emergency visits with scheduled work. 
Mears has access to SBH’s ‘Covalent’ performance management 
system and uploads its operational performance data remotely, 
which is regularly monitored and reviewed.
Mears’ voids team shares premises with the clients’ voids team, 
facilitating communication and delivering faster timescales on 
re-letting. An innovative approach to voids is delivering much of the 
capital programme to properties that need refurbishing while they 
are waiting to be re-let. Once the winning tenant bidder for the home 
is known they are given a choice of styles and finishes for doors, 
kitchens and bathrooms. The approach to major improvements 
saves SBH money as refurbishment is completed faster in an empty 
property. The incoming tenant is spared the disruption of major 
improvement works after they have moved in. 
Mears has created an in-house service improvement team which has 
developed a repairs service improvement plan for SBH. A core group 
has been established to agree and implement actions within the plan 
and to liaise with the T enant Housing Services Group. 
Since Mears’ contract commenced in 2008 there 
has been a steady and consistent improvement 
in service and customer satisfaction:
	 	 99.81% urgent repairs completed within Government 
timescales – up from 89%;
	 non urgent repairs are completed within 9.25 days 
– down from 29 days;
	 7.89 days are spent in voids – down from 15 days;
	 	 97.87% of gas servicing is completed on time 
– up from 94%; and
	 customer satisfaction has increased to 97.87%.
 Read more on this partnership
 ar10.mearsgroup.co.uk/sedgefieldboroughhomes Wayne Harris, Sedgefield Borough Homes’ 
Executive Director of Homes and Assets
“SBH is committed to partnership working; there is a far greater value 
achieved through a trust-based, open-book working relationship with 
contractors. If Mears picks up additional contracts delivered out of 
the same operation we know that we will benefit from any overhead 
savings. We’ve saved £330,000 from this alone in the last couple of 
years. Co-location is working very well too, having a knowledgeable 
contractor in our call centre means we share intelligence, and the 
appointment system is providing a much more efficient service 
for tenants. We are also realising significant savings from Mears’ 
procurement system and buying power.
“Partnering creates opportunities to explore new ways of working 
and enables us both to respond to opportunities that arise: we are 
currently evaluating a proposition for Mears to manage the budget 
for responsive repairs, cyclical maintenance and gas servicing, with a 
per property budget allocation. We believe this will avoid the wastage 
that arises from multiple visits to the same property to carry out 
repairs, which could all be undertaken in a single visit. Completing all 
repairs in one visit would make a substantial saving and operators 
could be incentivised to identify and carry out any necessary repairs. 
This would be a major benefit to tenants too who will get repairs 
completed before they have reported them.
“T enant empowerment is another area we want to focus on, with 
Mears delivering training to tenants so they can carry out simple 
repairs, that are their responsibility, themselves.”
“ Mears’ approach brings added   
 value to the traditional contractor/ 
 client relationship. Its combination  
 of local service quality and   
 management, together with central  
 procurement, IT systems, customer  
 care and community engagement,  
 reinforces our objectives to produce  
 better outcomes, increase tenant  
 satisfaction and create meaningful  
 tenant engagement.” Partnership: SBH, Mears and British Gas
British Gas is working with Mears to deliver a more efficient service 
for SBH’s void properties. When tenants leave a property there 
is a period when nobody has ownership of the energy services and 
the gas supply is usually capped. Mears often has to bring in 
generators so that work can be carried out in the property, particularly 
in winter, when heating is necessary for plaster and paint to dry.
Under the agreement with British Gas, energy services are left 
connected, with a credit of £15, to allow work to be done without 
it being necessary to invoice. The meter is cleared by Mears for the 
incoming tenant who, in return, signs up to receive their dual fuel 
services from British Gas (they can change supplier within 28 days 
if they wish) and to ensure they get a competitive fuel rate. As well 
as avoiding the cost of bringing in generators, reducing the time 
taken on works and facilitating faster letting for SBH, tenants like the 
arrangement too because their services are already in place before 
they move in.
British Gas is providing all void properties with energy saver packs, 
which reduce CO
2
 emissions and lower fuel use, which Mears installs 
on their behalf. British Gas also carries out a benefits check for the 
tenant to ensure they are receiving their maximum benefit entitlement.
The voids scheme has established a working relationship between 
the three partners and they are working together to create further 
propositions to benefit local residents. Sedgefield Borough Homes 
has announced that Mears and British Gas are its ‘Strategic Energy 
Partners’ to address and respond to energy issues and opportunities. 
Mears and British Gas are bidding jointly to install PV panels on 
400 SBH homes in an energy saving pilot scheme. Mears will shortly 
begin energy surveys for SBH and issuing Energy Performance 
Certificates. This information is not only very helpful for incoming 
tenants but also places SBH in a prime position to attract energy 
efficiency grants as they become available.
British Gas is working with Mears to deliver a 
more efficient service for Sedgefield Borough 
Homes (SBH)’s void properties. 
 Read more on this partnership
 ar10.mearsgroup.co.uk/sedgefieldboroughhomes
  Our aim
Through our strategic partnership with British Gas 
Mears is helping clients to meet their challenges of 
carbon reduction, fuel poverty and energy efficiency. 
  What the partnership offers
Access to funding streams, energy efficient 
technologies and expertise.
  How tenants benefit
Major energy saving technologies, such as PV panels, 
air or ground source heat pumps are increasingly 
being piloted in communities around the country 
and as well as adding to their green credentials, save 
significant amounts of money. Smaller innovations, 
such as the energy saving packs, are being made 
available to all Mears tenants and help reduce 
fuel bills. Forming strategic 
partnerships
Some of our clients and the organisations we work 
for include: 
Birmingham City Council, Cross Keys Homes, Essex County Council,  
Northamptonshire County Council, Lancashire County Council, 
Wakefield District Housing and Your Homes Newcastle.
Visit us online:
ar10.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate website:
www.mearsgroup.co.uk Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 09
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Social Housing
Social Housing has several growth drivers including the 
continued consolidation both in terms of the number 
of contractors and in the number of Landlords, both Local 
Authorities and Housing Associations. This trend in turn 
leads to increasing opportunities for organisations such 
as Mears who operate at a local level but who bring the 
benefits of a national player.
Reforms of the rental system and greater freedom for 
Local Authorities to retain and source their own funding, 
will enable Landlords to generate more income and fund 
both on-going maintenance and new build programmes. 
Demographic trends are also positive for the sector as 
more people will rely on social housing through their 
retirement given obvious limitations in income from 
pensions and benefits. 
We are already seeing more bundling of services into 
single partnering contracts, which enable a strategic 
approach to be taken to the management of the asset 
base. Mears’ breadth of services, including our presence 
in care provision, gives us real competitive advantage. 
In 2010, Mears has begun to strengthen its position in 
Scotland, with a number of contract wins being achieved 
across Glasgow and Edinburgh. We see several opportunities 
to build on this in 2011, as we do in Wales, following our 
acquisition of the Rok operations based out of Bristol.
Multi-service 
partnering contracts
We are already seeing more bundling of services into 
single partnering contracts, which enable a strategic 
approach to be taken to the management of the asset 
base. Mears’ breadth of services, including our presence 
in care provision, gives us real competitive advantage.
The next decade will see a significant expenditure on 
increasing the energy efficiency of the social housing stock. 
The Government has asked energy companies to fund 
a significant portion of this both in terms of energy 
efficiency and increasingly through micro-generation 
schemes, hence our strategic partnership with British Gas. 
Mears entered into this partnership to jointly address 
the challenges of energy efficiency within the social housing 
sector. The partnership will target funding opportunities 
under the Carbon Emissions Reduction Target (CERT) 
and the Community Energy Savings Programme (CESP) 
within our existing and growing Social Housing client base. 
Our aim is to increase our clients’ share of British Gas’ 
obligation funding streams, including CERT and CESP, 
enabling Social Housing Landlords to leverage more 
value from their capital budgets.
Through the latter part of 2010, we have been carrying out 
surveys on the entire housing stock for our Family Mosaic 
client. We have completed surveys on approximately 
15% of the total stock and these surveys will be on-going 
throughout 2011. On the 4,000 properties where 
the surveys are complete, we have moved to a second 
phase. Through our relationship with British Gas, we are 
now making environmental improvements to traditional 
homes to reduce their energy requirements with the 
resulting impact to fuel poverty.
“ In 2010, Mears has begun to strengthen its position in Scotland, 
with a number of contract wins being achieved across Glasgow 
and Edinburgh. We see several opportunities to build on this 
in 2011, as we do in Wales, following our acquisition of the Rok 
operations based out of Bristol.”
Over 10%
market share of social housing 
repairs and maintenance
282.0
08
355.3
09
379.4
10
205.6
07 06
184.0
Social Housing revenue (£m)
+7%
£379.4m 10 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Chief Executive Officer’s review
continued
Social Housing – new contract bidding
In the last twelve months we have been awarded new Social Housing contracts valued in excess of £750m (£1.2 billion with extensions), 
including the following:
 London Borough of Lambeth
The award of a seven-year partnership contract to provide responsive 
repairs, void refurbishment, estate management, Decent Homes 
and planned maintenance. The contract relates to the Northern 
housing region which includes around 8,000 of the 20,100 tenanted 
homes within Lambeth. The contract is valued at £119m for the initial 
seven-year period and also includes a performance option to extend 
to ten years giving a value of in excess of £170m and commenced 
in April 2011. 
 Family Mosaic
A ten-year partnership contract with a value of £300m. The contract 
provides services to homes in London and the Home Counties and 
commenced in August 2010. Mears, as the principal partner, provides 
a single 24 hour call centre service for all tenants of Family Mosaic 
and is responsible for responsive, void, gas maintenance, property 
surveying and estates management services. The contract also includes 
a performance option to extend to 22 years giving a value of in excess 
of £660m. 
Family Mosaic was an existing client of Mears and is one of the largest 
Registered Social Landlords in the UK, providing homes and housing 
services to around 45,000 people in over 20,000 homes across 
London and the Home Counties. 
 Exeter City Council
The award of two contracts worth £13m (£20m with extensions). 
The first is a five-year partnership to provide responsive repairs and 
voids services worth £7.5m. There is an option to extend the contract 
for a further five years. The second is also a five-year contract to provide 
replacement heating systems valued at £5.5m over the period. Exeter 
City Council is one of the largest Landlords in the South West with a 
stock of over 5,000 properties.
 Homes for Islington
The contract is valued at £48m for the initial four-year period, with an 
option to extend twice by up to three years each time (up to ten years 
maximum giving a contract value of £120m including extensions). 
The services to be provided include component renewal works involving 
redecoration, internal and external refurbishment works such as kitchen, 
heating and bathroom renewals, rewiring, and roof renewals. We are 
one of two partners appointed to deliver works to up to 22,000 
tenanted and 8,000 leasehold properties.
 T ower Hamlets
A five-year partnership contract to provide responsive repairs, void 
services, gas servicing and breakdown cover. The contract is valued 
at £60m for the initial five-year period, with an option to extend for 
a further five years giving a total contract value of £120m including 
extensions. We have been appointed as sole partner to deliver the 
services to 12,700 tenanted and 8,600 leasehold properties. The 
contract commenced in April 2011.
  Penwith Housing Association and Devon 
and Cornwall Housing Association
A five-year contract to provide external cyclical maintenance and 
repair services in Cornwall. The contract is worth in excess of £6m. 
Penwith Housing Association (PHA) and Devon and Cornwall Housing 
Association (DCHA) own and manage more than 6,800 properties 
throughout Cornwall. This award represents a renewal for the cyclical 
repairs service with PHA and additional value from DCHA and started 
in April 2011.
 Moat Homes
A ten-year partnership providing responsive repairs and void maintenance 
services. We have been appointed as sole partner to deliver these services 
to 15,000 properties, predominantly in the South East of England. 
The contract is valued at £67m over the life of the partnership. Moat 
is an existing client of Mears who awarded us an interim contract 
18 months ago. We are delighted to be able to extend this relationship 
for the long term. The new contract mobilised in April 2011. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 11
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Social Housing continued
We will also be commencing major environmental 
works on the properties of our client, Cross Keys Homes. 
We are optimistic that on completion of the current 
schemes of work, we will extend this work to the 
remainder of their portfolio. 
Mears has continued to develop a number of in-sourcing 
models to address the needs of a wide range of clients. 
Approximately one quarter of the social housing 
maintenance market is yet to be outsourced, and there 
are various reasons why a full outsourcing model may not 
always be appropriate. Mears can offer solutions from 
joint ventures through to more traditional consultancy 
arrangements. We have been notified of an award of our 
first in-sourcing solutions contract with a Local Authority 
to provide support to their Direct Labour Organisation (DLO). 
This represents a new customer relationship for the Group. 
The existing DLO has a reputation for delivering a high 
quality of service to the tenants. Mears will support the 
DLO through enhanced IT and procurement approaches. 
Domiciliary Care
I am pleased that our Domiciliary Care division had 
a successful year in what has been a transformational period 
for the Group. Early in 2010, we completed the acquisition 
and have now successfully integrated Supporta plc; 
a company that previously led the domiciliary care sector 
in terms of operational excellence and quality of service 
provision. The division reported organic growth of 5% in 
the period which is pleasing at a time where management 
has been focused upon integrating two of the leading 
providers. The Domiciliary Care division has also benefited 
from the higher margin Supporta business. 
Our main focus now is to complete the development 
of our new Care IT platform, using the skills and experience 
learnt from the Social Housing division to generate 
opportunities for efficiencies for both ourselves and our 
clients and provide significant competitive advantage. 
We are however, equally determined to reinvest those 
savings to our Care workforce, who provide quality care 
services for a relatively low wage and remain undervalued 
when considering the responsibility and social contribution 
of their roles.
Mears Care continues to build its capability with 
a geographical reach across the whole of the UK and is well 
placed to take a leading position in the consolidation 
of the domiciliary care market. Investment in infrastructure 
and people continues as we grow the business. The business 
has been successful in converting a high proportion of 
targeted tender opportunities into new contract awards 
as a result of our professional approach to long-term 
partnership contract bidding. The increasing trend of 
Local Authorities to procure care services from fewer and 
larger providers is entirely in line with our philosophy to 
work in partnership with our clients with the longer term 
aim towards improved outcome-based solutions.
The future for Domiciliary Care is very positive. Demographic 
changes mean 1.7m more adults will require care over 
the next 20 years. The political debate is not one 
of reducing care spend, but rather where the money 
will come from to help pay for increasing demand. A key 
factor here is the increasing role that the NHS is taking 
in joint commissioning across both health and care. 
The Comprehensive Spending Review (CSR) committed 
a further £2 billion of NHS money into supporting care 
in the community .This is a significant amount of money, 
which should overcome pressures on Council funding 
related to the reduction in central subsidies.
Geographical reach
Mears Care continues to build its capability with a 
geographical reach across the whole of the UK and 
is well placed to continue to take a leading position 
in the consolidation of the Domiciliary Care market. 
Investment in infrastructure and people continues 
as we grow the business.
“ In 2010, we completed the acquisition and have now 
successfully integrated Supporta plc; a company that 
previously led the domiciliary care sector.”
1.7m
more adults
Demographic changes mean 
1.7m more adults will require 
care over the next 20 years
54.6
08
60.1
09
100.4
10
28.7
07
Domiciliary Care revenue (£m)
+67%
£100.4m 12 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Chief Executive Officer’s review
continued
Domiciliary Care continued
The fundamental driver to growth is the fact that care 
in the service user’s own home gives the most affordable 
solution, being significantly lower cost than both residential 
care and care provided within NHS facilities. From a service 
quality perspective also, most people prefer to be looked 
after in their own home and studies show that this can 
have a positive impact on their well-being. The Government 
has made it very clear that it wants Local Authorities 
to outsource the remaining in-house services in this area 
(around 20% of the market) and to see greater focus 
generally on prevention methodologies to limit what 
had been spiralling demand upon the NHS. Mears is 
well placed to service this increase in demand for 
outsourced solutions.
In total, 24 different care contracts were won in 2010, 
many of which being new clients further strengthening 
our geographic footprint.
Care and repair
We continue to see more opportunities to provide integrated 
housing and care service to our customers and as a result 
we are combining our Care and Housing branches wherever 
possible. For example, most recently in Welwyn, three 
Care branches were combined and co-located within our 
Housing branch. We are now operationally joining up the 
work of our Housing operatives with that of the Care 
worker, so that they operate as one team to the service 
recipient. The Care workers can often spot fall hazards 
in a home and report them as a repair requirement, 
well before the service user identifies the problem. 
The importance of this is illustrated by the fact that the 
NHS spends almost £5m per day on falls, most of which are 
suffered by elderly people, often in their home environment.
The National Housing Federation concluded in its recent 
report that, ‘There are considerable advantages to service 
users, to the public purse, and to meeting the shared 
objectives of prevention and tackling inequalities, of 
increased collaboration across health, housing care and 
support. This is a key moment for public services, and a 
time at which there are major challenges facing service 
providers and commissioners in both sectors’.
The Government remains committed to prioritising the 
agenda of housing in an ageing society to ensure that as 
people grow older they also stay comfortable and secure 
in their own homes. We continue the roll out of our 
“integrated housing and care” offering which combines 
the service offerings of our Social Housing and Domiciliary 
Care divisions. The integration of services around the 
home aims to contribute to a high quality of life for the 
residents of the community by meeting diverse needs 
and providing choice to the relevant users of the service, 
as well as providing significant cost reduction opportunities. 
Domiciliary Care – new contract bidding
We have announced previously our award of significant contracts 
during the last twelve months, estimated to be worth in the region 
of £40m, reflecting on-going trends in awarding consolidating 
contracts to providers with an excellent quality reputation and 
a capability to deliver against the emerging personalisation agenda. 
The most significant successes include the following:
 London Borough of Enfield
The award for an initial three-year period with a two-year extension. 
It is worth an estimated £12m over this five year period. This is 
a new client relationship to the Group and has seen Enfield reduce 
the number of providers from 20 to 4. This further strengthens 
our operations across London where we have a presence in 
25 of the 32 London Boroughs.
 Wigan Council
Wigan was the Group’s first Care contract win after Mears acquired 
Careforce in 2007. It is a testament to the success of this first contract 
that Mears has now been awarded a new contract with a volume 
that is likely to be three times the existing value. The contract 
is for an estimated value of £2m.
 Staffordshire County Council
Staffordshire was an existing contract, where Mears has been able 
to secure significant additional volume on the back of a contract 
award. The contract is for three years and is worth an estimated £7m. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 13
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Since our year end, Mears has completed the acquisition 
of a group of Home Improvement Agencies from Anchor 
Housing for a nominal fee. Home Improvement Agencies 
are currently contracted by Local Authorities to provide 
primarily home adaptation and handyman services to 
vulnerable owner occupiers in local communities. Home 
Improvement Agencies play a vital role in helping to keep 
people in their own home for longer. Their role is likely to 
expand in the future to cover a broader range of services 
that support independent living, including home safety 
and signposting of services such as Domiciliary Care, to 
an increasing number of Individual Budget Holders. This 
further demonstrates the link we are forging with Local 
Authorities in providing integrated services and we thus 
see this acquisition as an important conduit to achieving 
this. We consider this purchase to be an excellent 
complement to our existing operations and which 
extends our geographic footprint into a number of 
Local Authorities where we previously had no presence.
Other services
The Group’s other services comprise predominantly 
the Mears Mechanical and Electrical (M&E) business. 
This business performed well in the period and our M&E 
business continued to make profit on the back of 
a resilient housing market in Docklands. Our M&E operation 
has, for a number of years, been developing a modular 
affordable home. I am delighted that the Group has now 
received its first order from a Social Housing client for this 
approach to modular housing. This pilot is hoped to be 
the first of many such opportunities of providing this 
solution to Registered Social Landlords.
Safety, Health and Environment (SHE)
For the fourth consecutive year, Mears has seen a 
reduction in all accident rates. A 10% reduction in the 
year is the result of a team effort between branch 
management, staff, and the SHE team. The introduction 
of specific objectives set for each member of the SHE 
team has contributed, alongside the rigorous training 
regimes introduced in 2008 and 2009.
In 2008 we introduced our own in house training course 
that was accredited by the British Safety Council. This has 
been a great success and without doubt a contributor to 
the impressive accident reductions and improved safety 
performance. In 2009 Mears was presented with the 
prestigious RoSPA Training Trophy beating off hundreds 
of other entrants and in 2010 Mears retained the award 
to become one of the few companies winning the award 
for two years running. With the introduction of new 
systems, procedures, management and operative training 
during 2010, we are optimistic of reporting further 
improvements this year.
Our communities
We have operations throughout the UK and all our 
branches are dedicated towards helping to improve 
people’s lives. We work in some of the most socially 
deprived areas of the country and so we feel a strong 
sense of responsibility toward the wider community. 
Helping a community to thrive increases the quality 
of life for residents and supports community cohesion 
and development.
David Miles
david.miles@mearsgroup.co.uk
Chief Executive Officer
“ The future for Domiciliary Care is very positive. Demographic changes 
mean 1.7m more adults will require care over the next 20 years. The 
political debate is not one of reducing care spend, but rather where 
the money will come from to help pay for increasing demand.”
Our communities
We work throughout the UK and all our branches 
are dedicated towards helping to improve people’s lives. 
We do work in some of the most socially deprived areas 
of the country and so we feel a strong sense of responsibility 
toward the wider community. 
  Turn to page 20 for more
10%reduction 
in accident rates
For the fourth consecutive year, 
Mears has seen a reduction in 
all accident rates
RoSPA 
Training Trophy 
In 2009 Mears was presented 
with the prestigious RoSP A Training 
Trophy beating off hundreds of 
other entrants and in 2010 Mears 
retained the award to become one 
of the few companies winning the 
award for two years running 14 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial review
Mears is…
strong in financial management…
Andrew Smith
Finance Director
“ The tremendous successes in bidding new contract 
opportunities enjoyed in 2010 has provided the Group with 
unprecedented revenue visibility for the coming year and the 
Group is confident of reporting enhanced growth for 201 1 .”
Summary of the year
Income Statement
Group revenues increased 11% to £523.9m; core 
Repairs and Maintenance revenues reported underlying 
organic growth in excess of 10%. Growth of 67% in 
Domiciliary Care revenue predominantly driven by 
Supporta plc acquisition. Operating profit before 
exceptional costs and the amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles increased by 27% to £31.3m (2009: £24.8m); 
operating margin rose from 5.3% to 6.0%. 
Balance Sheet
We maintain a conservative Balance Sheet. All costs relating 
to tender, contract set-up and the initial inefficiencies during 
period of contract mobilisation are written off as incurred. 
T otal shareholders’ equity rose by £35.6m to £141.6m. 
The increase in net assets is primarily due to new share 
capital issued in respect of the Supporta transaction.  
Cash generation
The Group’s conversion of profit for the year before tax 
and pre amortisation to cash in the period was 97% 
(2009: 109%).  
 Read this Financial Review online
 ar10.mearsgroup.co.uk/financialreview Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 15
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Income Statement
Revenue
In the year to 31 December 2010 we grew Group revenue 
to £523.9m (2009: £470.1m), an increase of 11.4%. 
The Social Housing division contributed revenue of £379.4m 
(2009: £355.3m), growth of 6.8% including organic growth 
of 3.2%. The Group has consistently reported organic 
growth in excess of that achieved by the other major 
competitors in the sector, underpinned by our quality of 
service delivery. At no time has or will the Group lower 
its margin expectation to generate turnover. The Social 
Housing business continues its strong performance, 
although its organic growth in 2010 was diluted by the 
reduction in capital works as a number of Decent Homes 
schemes, which as expected, reached their natural 
conclusion. Revenue from Decent Homes works was 
down by £23m compared to 2009. Our core Repairs 
and Maintenance revenues reported underlying organic 
growth in excess of 10%. The reduced dependency on 
Decent Homes works will be mirrored in both 2011 and 
2012 with the revenue stream from this type of work 
expected to reduce by approximately £30m in both years. 
This has been mitigated by the tremendous successes 
in bidding new contract opportunities enjoyed in 2010 
and has provided the Group with unprecedented revenue 
visibility for the coming year and the Group is confident 
of reporting enhanced growth for 2011. New opportunities 
are emerging in the environmental space as landlords 
face the combined challenges of carbon reduction 
and reducing fuel poverty. This in turn will generate 
opportunities for our partnership with British Gas.
The Domiciliary Care division contributed revenue of £100.4m 
(2009: £60.1m). The growth of 67% in Domiciliary Care 
revenue is predominantly driven by the acquisition 
of Supporta plc. The underlying organic growth of 5% 
in the period is pleasing at a time where management 
has been focused upon integrating the two operations. 
The high number of new contract successes over the course 
of the second half year will provide the foundations for 
delivering robust growth in 2011. Given the consolidation 
of what remains a relatively immature market, the Group 
continues to target double digit revenue growth for its 
Domiciliary Care division. The constricting factor to growth 
is not any shortage in new contract opportunities, but 
the availability of carers. 
The other services division, which predominantly comprises 
our M&E operation, reported a 19% reduction in revenue 
to £44.2m compared to last year (2009: £54.8m). This 
was an improvement on our initial forecasts and, in 
a year of continuing economic instability, represents 
a solid achievement for this division.
Operating profit 
At a Group level, operating profit before exceptional 
costs and the amortisation of acquisition intangibles 
increased by 26.5% to £31.3m (2009: £24.8m) with 
the operating margin rising from 5.3% to 6.0%. This 
increase is substantially due to the margin enhancing 
acquisition of Supporta plc.
At a divisional level, operating margin is struck before 
amortisation, exceptional items and share option costs. 
The Social Housing division maintained its operating 
margin above 6.0% which continues to be at the top end 
for the sector. This is a tremendous achievement in a period 
when it has mobilised a large number of new contracts. 
Typically the Group anticipates a low margin from a new 
contract during its mobilisation phase at a time where 
it is critical to ensure that robust processes are put in place 
while focusing on excellent customer service. Mears does 
not capitalise any of these initial inefficiencies and the losses 
associated with new mobilisations are fully expensed 
in the period. At a time of high growth, one would expect 
to see an initial dilution in operating margin. The two 
largest new contract mobilisations in 2010 were the 
existing clients of Brighton and Family Mosaic, both 
of which saw a significantly enhanced scope of works. 
Key Performance Indicators
We operate a balanced scorecard approach. This enables 
the business to be operated on a balanced basis with 
due regard for all stakeholders.
  Turn to page 25 for more
Mears is…
strong in financial management…
Operating margin 
increased from 
5.3% to 6.0% 16 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial review
continued
Income Statement continued
Operating profit continued
The financial performance of those contracts exceeded 
our expectations over the course of their mobilisation 
periods which reduced the originally estimated level of 
margin dilution, highlighting the strength of management 
and efficiencies of mobilisation. It is anticipated that all 
contracts mobilised during 2010 will make a positive 
contribution to 2011, whilst delivering a full operating 
margin by 2012.
Within Care, the operating margin has increased to 7.5% 
(2009: 5.2%) which represents a blend of the higher margin 
Supporta business and the lower margin of our original 
Careforce business. We do believe there are opportunities 
for further margin improvements through system 
enhancements, operating efficiency and economies 
of scale. Our focus remains on maintaining service quality 
whilst continuing to grow our Care offering. Our experience 
from Social Housing is that an enhanced margin will 
naturally follow from this.
The other services division’s operating margin of 3.7% 
(2009: 1.6%) is pleasing as the business has shown 
strong management through difficult trading conditions. 
The other services division is well placed and enters 2011 
with optimism.
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles
A charge of £10.1m (2009: £5.0m) arose in the period. 
The majority of this charge is in respect of the Group’s 
Domiciliary Care division and represents the amortisation 
of the identified intangible assets acquired in relation 
to the acquisition of Careforce Group plc in 2007 and 
Supporta plc in 2010, together with a number of small 
bolt-on acquisitions between those two dates. In addition, 
the Social Housing division has completed a number 
of small acquisitions, typically of distressed businesses, 
over recent years.
The increase in the 2010 charge compared to the 
comparative period is primarily due to the acquisition 
of Supporta plc which contributed a charge of £2.0m 
in the year. In addition to this, the intangible asset 
recognised upon the acquisition of certain trade 
and assets of Connaught Partnership Limited and 
Rok Building Limited were written off entirely in the 
period resulting in a non-recurring charge of £1.5m.
Results of the year
Group revenue
Diluted earnings per share 
Operating profit pre amortisation
Record order book growth 
+8%
+27%
+27%
to £523.9m
to £31.3m
to 23.38p
to £2.7bn Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 17
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Finance costs
The net finance cost for the year was £2.4m (£1.4m). 
Whilst the interest charge in respect of the working 
capital facility was maintained at £0.9m (2009: £0.9m), 
the overall finance cost has increased due to an additional 
interest charge in respect of the hedge arrangement 
of £0.9m (2009: £0.4m) and the net interest charge 
in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme was 
£0.3m (2009: £nil).
Exceptional items
The Group has incurred exceptional costs during the year 
of £2.5m (2009: £nil) relating mainly to the costs of 
acquisitions and the subsequent integration of the Supporta 
business into the Mears Care division. The costs relating 
to the acquisitions would previously have been capitalised 
and included within goodwill.
Pensions
Following the announcement in the June 2010 budget, 
the UK Government has announced it will use the CPI 
measure of inflation rather than RPI to determine statutory 
pension increases for public sector schemes. The move 
to CPI has been treated as a change in benefits recognised 
as a negative past service cost in the Income Statement. 
As a result of this change, a credit of £3.7m has been 
recognised in the Income Statement. The credit is a 
non-cash item. As a result of this, the total credit to the 
result for the year in respect of defined benefit pension 
schemes was £1.0m (2009: £1.5m charge).
The latest full actuarial valuations for the schemes 
as at 31 December 2010 recorded an actuarial loss for 
the period of £3.8m (2009: £7.1m) which was recognised 
in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The opening 
deficit in respect of defined benefit schemes recognised 
in the Balance Sheet at December 2009 amounted 
to £3.2m. The acquisition of Supporta contributed 
a further deficit of £4.9m. The impact of the change 
to CPI together with the actuarial loss resulted in 
a closing deficit of £7.7m.
Tax expense
A tax charge of £1.6m has been provided (2009: £4.4m). 
The effective current Corporation T ax rate recognised in 
the Income Statement before adjustments for deferred 
tax is 14.3% (2009: 25.7%). The significant reduction 
in the Group’s tax charge is due to a number of contributing 
factors, notably:
  a Corporation T ax deduction in respect of the exercise 
of 0.5m (2009: 0.4m) share options;
  a deferred tax credit of £2.8m (2009: £1.4m) in respect 
of the amortisation of acquisition intangibles; and
  a non-taxable pension benefit of £3.7m (2009: £nil) 
resulting from the change from RPI to CPI that 
resulted in a reduced past service cost. 
Earnings per share (EPS)
Normalised basic EPS increased by 10.1% to 24.96p 
(2009: 22.67p). The normalised diluted EPS, which allows 
for the potential diluting impact of outstanding share 
options, was up 8.2% to 23.38p (2009: 21.61p). 
Normalised earnings are stated before exceptional costs 
and exclude the amortisation of acquisition intangibles 
together with an adjustment to reflect a full tax charge 
of 28%. We believe that this normalised diluted EPS 
measure better allows the assessment of operational 
performance, the analysis of trends over time, the 
comparison of different businesses and the projection 
of future performance.
Dividend
These excellent results, combined with our confidence 
in the future opportunities in our growth markets, allow 
the Group to increase the dividend once again ahead 
of earnings. A final dividend of 4.85p per share is proposed 
which combined with the interim dividend, gives a total 
dividend for the year of 6.75p (2009: 5.70p), an 18.4% 
increase. The dividend is payable on 1 July 2011 
to shareholders on the register on 10 June 2011.
“ These excellent results, combined with our confidence in the future 
opportunities in our growth markets, allow the Group to increase 
the dividend once again ahead of earnings.”
Risk management
The Group’s financial risk management is based upon 
sound economic objectives and good corporate practice.
  Turn to pages 27 and 28 for more
Dividends per share (p)
+18%
6.75p
4.75
08
5.70
09
6.75
10
4.00
07
3.30
06 18 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial review
continued
Acquisitions and disposals completed during the period
  Acquisition of the share capital of Supporta plc (“Supporta”)
In January 2010 the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Supporta by way of 
a share-for-share exchange, valuing the equity of Supporta at £26.9m and each Supporta share 
at 31.0p based on a Mears share price of 269.5p at the time of the offer. Mears issued 9.9m new 
shares in respect of this acquisition giving Supporta shareholders approximately 12% of the 
issued share capital of the enlarged Group.
  Acquisition of certain social housing business assets 
of Connaught Partnerships Limited (“Connaught”)
During September 2010, Mears acquired a number of contracts from the administrators 
to Connaught and as a result of the administration, has seen other opportunities for the Group 
to extend its customer base. A cash consideration of £0.5m was paid for a small number 
of contracts.
 Acquisition of the share capital of Jackson Lloyd Limited (“JL”)
During September 2010, Mears acquired the entire share capital of JL for an initial cash consideration 
of £2.1m. JL operates maintenance contracts with customers predominantly in the North West of 
England. An additional deferred consideration is payable up to a maximum of £1.0m, subject to the 
achievement of performance criteria linked to contract retention and profitability. The completion 
balance sheet reported net liabilities in the region of £5.2m, including a net debt of £2.9m which 
was repaid immediately upon acquisition.
  Acquisition of certain social housing business assets 
of Rok Building Limited (“Rok”)
During November 2010, Mears completed the acquisition of the social housing business assets 
of the Bristol social housing division of Rok. The acquisition provides access to five potential new 
customer relationships. The contracts are predominantly frameworks and as such the Group will not 
attribute any value to these within its order book valuation. A cash consideration of £0.5m was paid 
for the contracts themselves. A cash consideration of £1.5m was paid in respect of the working 
capital balances which represented a pound for pound payment against their book value. 
 Disposal of Datacare Business Systems Limited (“Datacare”)
Datacare was acquired in 2010 as part of the Supporta acquisition. It was determined 
that Datacare was not core to the Group’s strategy. The disposal of this business generated 
net proceeds of £1.0m.
>£750m 
record contract 
awards Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 19
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Balance Sheet
Non-current assets
The value of goodwill carried within the Balance Sheet 
is £97.4m, of which over three-quarters relates to the Group’s 
Domiciliary Care division. The opening balance of goodwill 
was £52.4m, with the significant increase primarily due 
to the acquisition of Supporta plc, and to a lesser extent 
Jackson Lloyd Limited. Similarly, these same two acquisitions 
also account for the increase in intangible assets, moving 
from £17.1m to £27.1m. Whilst the acquisition of certain 
business assets of Rok and Connaught also increased 
intangible assets by £1.4m, it was considered prudent 
to write this off in the same period given the short term 
nature of those contracts acquired.
Further detail on all acquisition and disposals completed 
during the period are included in the table on page 18.
All costs relating to tender, contract set-up and the initial 
inefficiencies during the period of contract mobilisation 
are written off as they are incurred. A balance of £1.9m 
(2009: £2.1m) is included within non-current trade and 
other receivables. This relates to sales retentions in relation 
to our M&E activities within our other services division. 
This is normal practice within that sector, where a small 
percentage of the contract sum is withheld for a short 
period. This is typically settled twelve months after 
the completion of works.
The Group capital expenditure of £2.9m (2009: £3.7m) 
relates to IT hardware, other office equipment and the 
refurbishment of new office premises. Given a number 
of the new contract mobilisations were with clients where 
we had an existing presence, the capital expenditure 
for the year was relatively low. Predominantly all our plant 
and machinery is hired and motor vehicles subject to 
operating leases and hence are not included within 
capital expenditure or recognised as an asset within 
the Balance Sheet.
Working capital balances
The efficiency with which the Group manages working capital 
remains a cornerstone of our business. The Group’s conversion 
of profit for the year before tax and pre-amortisation 
to cash in the period was 96.8% (2009: 108.7%). 
The Group has consistently set high standards of working 
capital management and high levels of conversion 
of operating profit into cash with an average conversion 
rate during the last five years of in excess of 90% over 
a period where the size of the business has more than 
doubled through organic growth. Our net debt position 
at 31 December 2010 was £12.2m (2009: net funds £6.5m).
Whilst the year end cash position was pleasing, 
the Group does currently operate with a core debt 
position of approximately £64m (2009: £40m). 
This increase in underlying core debt is primarily 
as a result of a cash outflow of £27.1m in respect 
of acquisitions (net of disposal proceeds). We have 
always been and remain conservative in respect of 
our appetite for debt. 
On the back of the acquisition of Supporta plc, the Group 
took the opportunity to refinance to provide additional 
funding and to take the opportunity to ensure that the facility 
better addressed the future requirements of the Group. 
The new £85m facility is available to fund further 
acquisitions and to provide additional working capital 
to fund the existing business and future organic growth. 
The term was extended to June 2013. Our relationship 
with our banking partners, Barclays and HSBC, remains 
very positive.
Non-current liabilities
Non-current liabilities increased from £9.1m to £15.6m. 
The primary cause of the increase relates to liabilities 
in respect of defined benefit pension schemes which 
reported an increase from £3.2m to £7.7m, predominantly 
due to the acquired liability of £4.9m as a result of the 
acquisition of Supporta plc. In addition, the deferred tax 
liability, again the majority of which related to the Supporta 
acquisition, increased from £4.6m to £7.0m.
Equity
Total shareholders’ equity rose by £35.6m to £141.6m 
at 31 December 2010. The increase in net assets is 
primarily due to the new share capital issued in respect 
of the Supporta transaction together with retained profits.
Andrew Smith
andrew.smith@mearsgroup.co.uk
Finance Director
Working capital 
management
Cash generated from operations as a proportion of 
the profit for the year (before tax and amortisation) 
amounted to 97% (2009: 109%), with a net debt 
position at the year end of £12.2m.
Excellent profit to 
cash conversion
97% 20 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate social responsibility
Mears is…
committed to improving lives
Mears continues to develop and extend its social and 
environmental programmes providing material benefits 
for the communities in which it operates and creating 
opportunities for personal development and experience 
for its employees.
Investors in People (IIP)
Mears has been accredited by IIP since 1994 when 
we employed less than 100 staff. Accreditation 
requires organisations to consistently operate in 
a way that develops employees and to actively engage 
with them to look for ways to improve the running of 
the Company. It is also important that the organisation 
is socially responsible and that people are committed to 
its success. However large we grow, our commitment 
to staff development will never change. Today, Mears 
employs more than 12,000 people who live and work in 
every region of the United Kingdom; their training and 
development lies at the heart of our employment ethos 
– we want every person who works for Mears to have 
access to opportunities and to build a career with us. 
The Group also provides its employees with the skills 
to develop their careers through professional development 
training such as formal accountancy and HR qualifications.
2011 sees the relaunch of the Mears Graduate Management 
Programme which will provide opportunities for the brightest 
and best and help us develop our managers of the future.
An ambitious apprenticeships programme is also being 
rolled out which will increase the number of apprenticeships 
around the Group, develop better local mentoring skills 
and which will also be extended to our Domiciliary 
Care business.
Safety, Health and Environment (SHE)
For the fourth consecutive year, Mears has seen a pro-rata 
reduction in all accident rates. In 2009 our accident 
frequency rate* was 0.43, in 2010 this reduced to 0.41. 
This reduction is thanks to the team effort between branch 
management, staff and the SHE team. The introduction 
of specific objectives set for each member of the SHE team 
has also contributed, alongside the rigorous training regimes 
introduced in 2009 that continued to be effective in 2010.
In 2008 Mears introduced its own in-house training 
course that was accredited by the British Safety Council. 
This has been a great success and without a doubt 
a contributor to the impressive accident reductions 
and improved safety performance. In 2009 Mears was 
presented with the prestigious RoSPA Training Trophy, 
beating off hundreds of other entrants and in 2010 
we retained this award to become one of the few 
companies winning it for two years running. With the 
introduction of new systems, procedures, management 
and operative training we are optimistic that we will 
continue to report further improvements in the 
coming year.
Our four goals:
  to improve the lives of people living within 
our communities;
  to reduce prejudice and improve understanding 
of differences within our diverse communities;
  to provide career and skills development opportunities 
to those needing them the most; and
  to be a positive contributor to our environment.
 Read this CSR report online
 ar10.mearsgroup.co.uk/corporatesocialresponsibility
We have three specific aims alongside our 
service commitments:
 Support
  Support and strengthen the communities   
  in which we work.
 Recruit
  Recruit employees locally whenever we can.
 Encourage
  Encourage employees to volunteer their time   
  and skills to benefit their local community.
* Accident frequency rate is the number of fatalities and reportable incidents divided by 
annual hours worked x 100,000. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 21
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Our communities
In 2010 more than 1,000 staff volunteered to take part 
in a community project and contributed 17,700 hours 
of their time towards 533 projects that made a difference 
in their local communities.
Every year projects are nominated for special recognition, 
categorised by each of the four Mears Corporate Social 
Responsibility goals. In 2010 we received an unprecedented 
number of nominations and the winners were as follows:
To improve the lives of people living in 
our communities:
Mears Projects Greenwich: Men in Sheds. The initiative 
supported Age Concern, fitting out a community building 
to enable isolated retired people to take part in community, 
DIY and repair projects.
To reduce prejudice and improve understanding 
of differences in our diverse communities:
Mears Broadstairs: Viking ship for Bradstow School. 
Employees and apprentices from the joint Mears and client, 
Orbit’s, Future Builders’ scheme built a Viking ship for this 
Special Needs School as part of a week-long celebration 
for the school’s centenary.
To provide career and skills development 
opportunities for those who need them the most:
Mears Eastbourne: Street learning project. Staff 
at Eastbourne supported this initiative by their client, 
Eastbourne Homes, and provided a wide range of training 
and work development sessions, events and opportunities 
for local people of all ages.
To be a positive contributor the environment:
Mears Newcastle: New visitor facilities at Hauxley 
Nature Reserve. Having learned that the nature reserve 
had been targeted by arsonists and lost most of its facilities, 
the Newcastle team converted unused buildings into 
a new visitor reception and information area.
Mears Foundation and overseas volunteering
The Mears Foundation, with six employees appointed 
as Trustees, was established in 2010 to provide us with 
a charitable arm to raise money for projects at home 
and overseas. The aim of the Foundation is to support 
projects for education and training, disaster aid and famine 
relief, sport and recreation, environment, conservation 
and heritage.
In Spring 2010, 20 staff took a convoy of vehicles 
carrying aid, including a fire engine, on a 1,000 mile 
journey to Belarus where the local community is still 
suffering the after effects of Chernobyl. They carried 
out work at Svaryn School to improve hygiene, create 
a medical centre and install IT facilities.
In Autumn 2010, a team of volunteers raised £2,000 
each and travelled to South Africa to carry out major 
refurbishments at Sithabile, a child and youth centre near 
Johannesburg. Following the successful outcome of this 
project, we will return to Sithabile in 2011 to continue 
the work.
Environmental performance
During 2010 we maintained and built on our strong 
environmental performance in 2009. We saved 176 tonnes 
of CO 2 through our commitment to recycle all our paper 
and cardboard. This equates to taking around 220 cars 
off the road for a year. By working closely with our waste 
partner, we have achieved an 80% recycling rate and have 
set a target of 83% waste recycling for 2011. We have 
seen a steady improvement in our recycling rate over the 
last year increasing from 68% in 2009 to 80% in 2010.
To achieve this we will be using a network of recycling 
facilities and transfer stations, selected for their recycling 
capabilities. It is also our intention to use designated 
waste containers on sites, where space allows us, to achieve 
our maximum recycling potential.
Completed community projects
Staff involved
Employee hours contributed
Our year
CSR goals
Every year projects are nominated for special 
recognition, categorised by each of the four 
Mears Corporate Social Responsibility goals. 
In 2010 we received an unprecedented 
number of nominations.
  See below for the winners
“Mears continues to develop and extend its social 
and environmental programmes.” 22 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Board of Directors
Bob Holt (56)
Chairman
Bob had a controlling interest in Mears at the time of flotation in 
October 1996. He has a background in developing support service 
businesses. He has operated in the service sector since 1981, initially 
in a financial capacity then moving into general management.
David J Miles (45)
Chief Executive Officer
David joined Mears in May 1996 and, prior to his appointment to 
the Board in January 2007, was Managing Director of the Mears Social 
Housing division. Prior to joining Mears, David held a senior position 
with the MITIE Group. His background is in electrical engineering.
Michael G Rogers (69) 
Non-Executive Director
Michael founded Careforce in 1999 and has over 30 years’ experience 
in healthcare services and care provision. In 1976 he joined Nestor 
Medical Group Limited as Managing Director and went on to become 
Chief Executive of Nestor Healthcare Group plc from 1986 to 1996. 
From 1996 to 1999 he worked as a consultant to a number of 
healthcare related organisations.
David L Hosein (47)
Non-Executive Director
David has over 17 years’ consulting experience, the last five of which 
have been at OC&C Strategy Consultants Limited where David is a 
Director and Managing Partner. David has worked extensively in the 
support services sector for corporate and private equity clients. Previously, 
he was a partner in Arthur Andersen. He joined Mears in 2008.
Michael A Macario (73) 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Michael is a Chartered Accountant and a Director of a number of 
companies. He joined Mears in 1996 upon flotation and is Chairman 
of the Group’s Audit Committee.
Davida Marston (57)
Non-Executive Director
Davida Marston had a 30 year career in international banking, 
working in the UK, Spain and North and South America. She is a 
Non-Executive Director of several companies including one of the 
largest general insurers in the UK. She chaired the Audit and Risk 
Committee of Midland Heart and its predecessor Keynote Housing 
and was a member of the Audit Committee of Family Mosaic Housing. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 23
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Peter F Dicks (68)
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman
Peter has been active in the venture capital and investments fields for 
a number of years. He is currently a Director of a number of companies. 
He joined Mears in 2008 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Andrew C M Smith (38)
Finance Director
Andrew joined Mears in December 1999 and, prior to his 
appointment to the Board, was Finance Director covering all 
the Mears Group’s subsidiaries. Andrew qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant in 1994 and worked in professional practice prior 
to joining Mears.
Alan Long (48)
Executive Director
Alan joined Mears in 2005 and prior to his appointment to the 
Board in August 2009, he was Managing Director of Careforce, the 
Group’s Care business, having previously held the position of Group 
Sales and Marketing Director. Prior to joining Mears, Alan held senior 
roles for Britannia Building Society, Mars and Smith and Nephew.
Reginald B Pomphrett (67)
Company Secretary
Reg has been involved in corporate finance for over 30 years and 
is Director of a number of companies. He is a Chartered Secretary 
and a member of the Securities Institute. He joined Mears in 1996.
Rory Macnamara (56)
Non-Executive Director
Rory is a Chartered Accountant with a wide range of corporate finance 
transaction experience. He was previously Vice Chairman and Head 
of Mergers and Acquisitions at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell and latterly 
a Managing Director at Lehman Brothers. He is currently a consultant 
to various companies and holds a number of directorships including Izodia Plc, 
Carpathian Plc, Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust Plc and Private 
Equity Investor Plc. He is Chairman of the Group’s Nomination Committee. 24 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Shareholder and corporate information
Internet
The Group operates a website which can be found at www.mearsgroup.co.uk. This site is regularly updated to provide 
information about the Group. In particular all of the Group’s press releases and announcements can be found on the site.
Registrar
Any enquiries concerning your shareholding should be addressed to the Company’s Registrar. The Registrar should 
be notified promptly of any change in a shareholder’s address or other details. 
Investor relations
Requests for further copies of the Annual Report and Accounts, or other investor relations enquiries, should be addressed 
to the registered office.
Financial calendar
 Annual General Meeting 
 8 June 2011
 Record date for final dividend
 10 June 2011
  Dividend warrants posted 
to shareholders
 1 July 2011
 Interim results announced 
 16 August 2011 
Registered office
1390 Montpellier Court 
Gloucester Business Park 
Brockworth 
Gloucester GL3 4AH 
T el: 01452 634600 
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Company registration number
3232863
Company Secretary
Reginald B Pomphrett
1390 Montpellier Court 
Gloucester Business Park 
Brockworth 
Gloucester GL3 4AH 
T el: 01452 634600
Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
Wales and South West  
Business Banking 
PO Box 119 
Park House 
Newbrick Road 
Stoke Gifford 
Bristol BS34 8TN 
T el: 01452 365353
HSBC Bank plc
West & Wales Corporate 
Banking Centre 
3 Rivergate 
T emple Quay 
Bristol BS1 6ER 
T el: 0845 583 9796
Solicitors
BPE
St James’ House 
St James’ Square 
Cheltenham GL50 3PR 
T el: 01242 224433
Auditor
Grant Thornton UK LLP
Registered Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
Hartwell House 
55–61 Victoria Street 
Bristol BS1 6FT 
T el: 0117 305 7600
Joint financial advisers 
and stockbrokers
Investec Bank PLC
2 Gresham Street 
London EC2V 7QP 
T el: 020 7597 2000
Collins Stewart Europe Ltd
88 Wood Street 
London EC2V 7QR 
T el: 020 7523 8000
Advisers
Zeus Capital Ltd
3 Ralli Courts 
West Riverside 
Manchester M3 5FT 
T el: 0161 831 1512
Registrar
Neville Registrars Ltd
Neville House 
18 Laurel Lane 
Halesowen 
West Midlands B63 3DA 
T el: 0121 585 1131
Investor relations
Gable Communications
34 Lime Street 
London ECM 7AT  Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 25 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
Report of the Directors
The Directors present their report together with the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are the provision of a range of outsourced services to the public and private sectors. The principal activity of the Company 
is to act as a holding company.
Business review
The Company is required to set out a fair review of the business of the Group during the reporting period. The information that fulfils this requirement can be found 
in the At a Glance section, the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive Officer’s Review and the Financial Review.
The results of the Group can be found within the Consolidated Income Statement.
Dividend
The final dividend in respect of 2009 of 4.10p per share was paid in July 2010. An interim dividend in respect of 2010 of 1.90p was paid to shareholders in November 2010. 
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.85p per share for payment on 1 July 2011 to shareholders on the Register of Members on 10 June 2011. This has 
not been included within the consolidated financial statements as no obligation existed at 31 December 2010.
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
We operate a balanced scorecard approach. This ensures that the Group targets its resources around its customers, community, employees, operations and finance. 
This enables the business to be operated on a balanced basis with due regard for all stakeholders.
The primary KPIs used by the Group are:
              2010 2009
Social Housing revenue           £379.4m £355.3m
Domiciliary Care revenue           £100.4m £60.1m
Operating profit before exceptional items and pre amortisation of acquisition intangibles      £31.3m £24.8m
Profit cash conversion*           96.8% 108.7%
Normalised diluted earnings per share**          23.38p 21.61p
Percentage of people rating service as excellent         77% 78%
Complaints as a percentage of jobs          0.32% 0.34%
Jobs completed on time           91% 92%
Value success rate on bids           40% 37%
Community projects completed           533 578
Community hours contributed           17,701 18,497
 * Cash flow from operating activities before taxation divided by profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, acquisition costs and taxation.
 ** Before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, exceptional items and adjusted to reflect a full tax charge of 28%.
The Group has continued to develop its contract management system and a number of other secondary KPIs are monitored on a real time basis through what 
is known internally as the Digital Key Performance Indicator Dashboard.
The Social Housing division contributed revenue of £379.4m (2009: £355.3m), growth of 6.8% including organic growth of 3.2%. The Group has consistently 
reported organic growth in excess of that achieved by the other major competitors in the sector, underpinned by our quality of service delivery.
The Domiciliary Care division contributed revenue of £100.4m (2009: £60.1m). The growth of 67.1% in Domiciliary Care revenue is predominantly driven 
by the acquisition of Supporta plc. The underlying organic growth in excess of 5% in the period is pleasing at a time when management has been focused 
upon integrating the existing care operation with Supporta Care under the Mears Care brand.
At a Group level, operating profit before exceptional costs and the amortisation of acquisition intangibles increased by 26.5% to £31.3m (2009: £24.8m) with 
the operating margin rising from 5.3% to 6.0%. This increase is substantially due to the margin enhancing acquisition of Supporta plc.
The Group’s conversion of profit for the year before tax and pre amortisation to cash in the period was 96.8% (2009: 108.7%). The Group has consistently set high 
standards of working capital management and high levels of conversion of operating profit into cash, with an average conversion rate during the last five years 
of in excess of 90% over a period where the size of the business has more than doubled through organic growth. 26 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Report of the Directors
continued
Directors
The present membership of the Board is set out on pages 22 and 23. R Holt, P Dicks and D L Hosein retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves 
for re‑election. M A Macario retires and is not seeking re‑election at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in June 2011.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 are detailed below. The Directors’ emoluments 
are detailed within the Remuneration Report.
 Ordinary shares
              31 December 31 December 
              2010 2009 
              Number Number
R Holt             500,000 500,000
D J Miles             100,000 100,000
A C M Smith            50,000 50,000
A Long             4,108 4,108
M A Macario            — —
R B Pomphrett*             — 25,000
M G Rogers             102,420 102,420
D L Hosein            — —
P F Dicks             23,298 23,298
D Marston            10,500 —
R Macnamara            — —
 * R B Pomphrett retired as a Director on 9 June 2010.
No Director had, during or at the end of the year, a material interest in any contract which was significant in relation to the Group’s business.
The Company has granted options to Directors. Details of these options are given in the Remuneration Report.
Going concern
A review of the Group’s activities during the year and its outlook are set out in the Chairman’s Statement and Chief Executive Officer’s Review on pages 4 to 13. 
The financial position of the Group is described on pages 14 to 19. Our two growth markets, Social Housing and Domiciliary Care, are defensive sectors where spend is 
largely non discretionary and our contracts tend to be long‑term partnerships.
The Group had net debt of £12.2m at 31 December 2010 and total funding headroom at that date of £72.8m which it considers more than sufficient to fund current 
trading plans. The Group renewed and increased its banking facility last year to £85m providing considerable financial resources. During this renewal process the 
Directors were pleased by the willingness of a number of banks to offer facilities.
The Directors consider that, as at the date of approving the financial statements, there is a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
AGM
The AGM will be held at the offices of Collins Stewart Europe Limited, 88 Wood Street, London EC2V 7QR on Wednesday 8 June 2011 at 9.30am and a formal 
Notice of Meeting and Form of Proxy is enclosed. The ordinary business to be conducted will include the re‑appointment of Directors who retire by rotation.
The special business will comprise the following resolutions:
  to authorise the Directors to allot shares within defined limits. The Companies Act 2006 requires Directors to seek this authority and, following changes to 
FSA rules and Institutional guidelines, the authority, as in previous years, will be limited to one‑third of the issued share capital, a total of £283,125 plus an 
additional one‑third of issued share capital (£283,125) that can only be used for a rights issue or similar fundraising;
  to authorise the Directors to issue shares for cash on a non pre‑emptive basis. This authority is limited to 5% of the issued share capital (£42,469) and is required 
to facilitate technical matters such as dealing with fractional entitlements or possibly a small placing; and
  to authorise the convening of General Meetings (other than an AGM) on 14 days’ notice. This results from an European Union Directive which became effective 
on 3 August 2009 and will override Section 307 of the Companies Act 2006 where the requirement to give 21 days’ notice for certain meetings has been amended. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 27
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk is an accepted part of doing business. The Group’s financial risk management is based upon sound economic objectives and good corporate practice. The Board 
has overall responsibility for risk management and internal control within the context of achieving the Group’s objectives. Our process for identifying and managing 
risks is set out in more detail within the Corporate Governance Statement. The key risks and mitigating factors are set out below.
Loss of revenue from publicly funded contracts
The Group is dependent on current UK Government policy regarding expenditure on improving social housing and domiciliary care, which may change. The Group 
is dependent on the policies and expenditure levels of its Local Government customers which follow their own strategies within the context of UK Government policy. 
The UK Government and Local Authorities may decide in future to change their priorities and programmes, including reducing present or future spending and 
investment where the Group would expect to compete for work. Any reduction in such Government investment and funding, or delays in implementing new funding, 
would be likely to adversely affect the Group’s future revenues and profitability in the relevant businesses. In addition, there may be future changes in the structure 
of Government and Local Authorities which could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s businesses.
The Group expects to continue to rely upon the ability and willingness of these publicly funded bodies to pay for its services. There are risks that budgetary changes 
could result in less funds being allocated to the services that the Group provides.
The Group’s Care activities will be affected by the move from block contracts towards individual care budgets allowing the service users to choose their care provider. 
To date the Group has seen very little change in service user choice and considers that it is well placed given the breadth of service that is offered.
Health, safety and the environment
The nature of the businesses conducted by the Group results in exposure to health and safety risks for both employees and third parties. This requires the adoption 
and maintenance of rigorous operational and occupational health and safety procedures. This is critical to the success of all areas of our businesses. Any health and 
safety failure which results in a major or significant health and safety incident is likely to be costly for the relevant business in terms of potential liabilities incurred as 
a result. Furthermore, such a failure could generate significant adverse publicity and have a negative impact on the Group’s reputation and their ability to win new 
business which, in turn, could adversely affect the operating, financial and share price performance of the Group. The markets in which the Group operate are subject 
to numerous health and safety and other regulations. Changes to, and increases in, regulation may adversely affect the Group.
Responsibility for health and safety lies with the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer is supported in this respect by the Group Health and Safety 
Director, by the Board and by the Senior Management Team. A rigorous training programme is in place to develop and improve employee health and safety. 
In 2008, we introduced our own in‑house training course that was accredited by the British Safety Council which, without a doubt, has contributed significantly 
to the impressive accident reductions and improved safety performance.
Failure to comply with regulation and increased regulatory costs
The Group’s operations are subject to laws and regulations. These include, but are not limited to, laws and regulations relating to licensing, conduct of operations, 
payment for services and referrals, benefits payable to staff and taxation. If the Group fails to comply with the laws and regulations that are applicable to its business, 
it could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties or it could be required to cease operations. There can be no assurance that operations will not be subject to increased 
regulations or laws which could have an adverse effect on the Group’s business (including, without limitation, increasing its administrative or regulatory compliance 
costs or by restricting the Group’s operations, in particular the Group’s Care activities). There can be no assurance that the Group will be able to comply with any new 
regulations or laws to which it might become subject.
In particular, the Group’s Care services are subject to a high level of regulation by the Care Quality Commission. In order to retain our contracts, the Group must 
ensure that it continues to operate to high standards of quality and meet the needs of its customers.
New legislation and regulations may result in increased costs to the Group. Whilst the Group would seek to recover such costs from its customers, there can 
be no assurance that regulatory changes will not adversely affect the Group’s business. 28 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Report of the Directors
continued
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Performance and reputational risk
The major part of the Group’s activities involves providing services to residents which are funded by Local Authorities and other public bodies. Any service failure 
or operational incident in any part of the Group could negatively impact upon the reputation of the Group and its operations and financial performance. The negative 
impact of this on the Group’s activities may be increased by the nature of its activities and the profile of its direct or indirect customers, specifically publicly funded 
bodies, social housing residents and recipients of social care.
Many of the Group’s contracts require certain client KPIs to be met. Failure to meet quality thresholds in contracts or complete contracts may affect future profitability 
and the ability to secure new contracts. The Group has in place quality standards and has developed systems to monitor key KPIs and take any action necessary 
as a result of that monitoring.
The work undertaken and services provided by the Group could be subject to additional quality measures imposed by customers and clients. In the event that the 
Group fails to achieve the quality measures imposed upon it, payments due under contracts for work undertaken may not be recovered in full or may not be recovered 
at all. In turn, this could have an adverse impact on the future profitability of the Group and could damage its reputation thereby adversely affecting its ability to 
secure future business, on terms acceptable to it or cause the termination of existing contracts. Even if amounts disputed under a contract are recovered in whole 
or in part, it remains a risk that the time to recover such amounts will be longer than anticipated and, where payments are delayed, cash flow may be adversely 
affected which, in turn, may adversely affect the financial condition of the business and prospects of the Group.
Mears is a market leader in both the social housing repair and domiciliary care markets and, therefore, any damage to Mears’ reputation could have a negative 
impact on the Group’s performance. The Group’s Senior Management T eam closely monitors the Group’s activities to minimise this risk. Additionally, all new employees 
receive the appropriate training applicable to their role to help ensure the quality of work they perform.
Skill shortages
The success of the Group is dependent on recruiting, retaining, developing, motivating and communicating with appropriately skilled, competent people at all levels 
of their respective organisations. There may, at any time, be shortages in the availability of appropriately skilled people, at all levels within the Group, and these 
shortages may have a negative effect on the Group. The Group faces competition for personnel from other companies and organisations. The members of the Group’s 
management team are expected to contribute to its ability to obtain, generate and manage opportunities. If the Group is not able to successfully attract, retain 
and motivate such personnel, it may not be able to maintain standards of service or continue to grow its businesses as anticipated. The loss of such personnel, 
or the inability to attract, retain, motivate and communicate with additional skilled employees required for their activities within an affordable cost base, could have 
an adverse effect on the Group’s business and prospects.
We continually work on initiatives to recruit effectively and retain our workforce.
Liquidity, cash flow and price risk
The Group seeks to manage financial risk to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to fund the needs of the Group. Committed banking facilities of £85.0m are in place 
until 2013. Short‑term flexibility is achieved through the use of the bank overdraft facilities.
The Group does not undertake any trading activity in financial instruments. All activities are transacted in Sterling. The Group has entered into a hedging arrangement 
to manage its interest rate risks. Further information is provided in note 20 to the accounts.
Contracts of significance
The Group is party to significant contracts within each segment of its business. The Directors do not consider that any one of those contracts is essential in its own 
right to the continuation of the Group’s activities.
Payment policy
The Company acts purely as a holding company and as such is non‑trading. Accordingly, no payment policy has been defined. However, the policy for Group trading 
companies is to set the terms of payment with suppliers when entering into a transaction and to ensure suppliers are aware of these terms. Group trade creditors 
during the year amounted to 55 days (2009: 49 days) of average supplies for the year. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 29
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Substantial shareholdings
As at 5 March 2011 the Company has been notified of, or is aware of, the following shareholders holding 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company:
              Number Percentage 
              of issued of issued 
              ordinary ordinary 
              shares shares 
              Number %
Majedie Asset Management           8,116,584 9.57
Artemis Investment Management           6,920,650 8.16
Schroder Investment Management          5,907,350 6.97
Legal & General Investment Management          5,191,170 6.12
Invesco Perpetual            4,803,247 5.67
BlackRock             3,785,674 4.46
Four Capital Partners            2,963,221 3.49
The Group actively encourages wider share ownership by its employees and the Group’s Save As You Earn (SAYE) share schemes have been well received.
Disabled employees
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned. In the event of members 
of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy 
of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Employee information and consultation
The Group has received recognition under the ‘Investors in People’ Award. The Group continues to involve its staff in the future development of the business. 
Information is provided to employees through a quarterly newsletter, the Group website and the intranet to ensure that employees are kept well informed 
of the performance and objectives of the Group. 
CREST
CREST is the computerised system for the settlement of share dealings on the London Stock Exchange. CREST reduces the amount of documentation required 
and also makes the trading of shares faster and more secure. CREST enables shares to be held in an electronic form instead of the traditional share certificates. CREST 
is voluntary and shareholders can keep their share certificates if they wish. This may be preferable for shareholders who do not trade in shares on a frequent basis.
Auditor
Grant Thornton UK LLP offers itself for re‑appointment as auditor in accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006.
On behalf of the Board
R B Pomphrett
Secretary
15 April 2011  30 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
in respect of the Directors’ Report and financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required to prepare financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. The financial statements are required by law to give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the 
Directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the 
Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS regulation. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
In so far as each of the Directors is aware:
 there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
  the Directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor 
is aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the 
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
To the best of my knowledge:
  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
  the management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
A C M Smith
Finance Director
15 April 2011  Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 31
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance statement
Introduction
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of corporate governance and is ultimately accountable for the Group’s activities, strategy and financial performance. 
The Board is dedicated to upholding and achieving good standards of corporate governance, integrity and business ethics for all activities.
The Board continues to be committed to maintaining the Group’s operations in accordance with the highest standards of corporate governance as set out in 
‘The UK Corporate Governance Code’ issued in June 2008 and has complied with it throughout the year except for the following:
  Paragraph A.2.1. The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive were exercised by R Holt until 24 November 2010. On 25 November 2010, D J Miles was appointed 
Chief Executive, at which point the Group complied with this paragraph; and
  Paragraph A.3.1. One out of six Non‑Executive Directors, M A Macario, has served as a Non‑Executive Director for more than nine years. Mr Macario will not be 
standing for re‑election at the AGM in June 2011, at which point the Group will be compliant with this paragraph. In addition R B Pomphrett had served for more 
than nine years as a Non‑Executive Director until June 2010.
The Board of Directors
As at 31 December 2010, the Board of Directors was made up of ten members consisting of four Executive Directors and six Non‑Executive Directors. 
The Board’s prime objective is to ensure on‑going commercial and financial success of the Group. At the beginning of the year, the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive 
were exercised by R Holt. On 25 November 2011, D J Miles was appointed Chief Executive. The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are now separate and are clearly 
defined with the division of responsibilities agreed by the Board. R Holt continues to fulfil the role of Chairman and, in line with best practice, ensures the effectiveness 
of the Board. D J Miles leads and manages the Group as Chief Executive. A central part of his role includes recommending and implementing key strategies, communicating 
to shareholders and managing the business operations. 
Each of the six Non‑Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any relationship which might materially interfere 
with the exercise of independent judgement. The Board does not consider the Non‑Executive Directors’ shareholdings or the number of years served in the case of M A Macario 
to impinge on his independence and he continues to represent the Non‑Executive Directors as Senior Independent Director. The Non‑Executive Directors provide 
a strong independent element to the Board and bring experience at a senior level of business operations and strategy, constructively challenging and helping develop 
proposals on strategy. A summary of the terms and conditions of appointment of the Non‑Executive Directors is available on request from the Company Secretary. 
The Board has been mindful as to the need to position the business for its next stage of growth and, alongside this, reinforce the Group’s corporate governance 
to better reflect its Main List status. The following changes to the Group’s Board have taken place in the last year:
  D Marston was appointed to the Board and the Audit Committee at the AGM in June 2010. She has an excellent background in finance, banking and the public 
sector. It is envisaged that D Marston will be appointed Chair of the Audit Committee on the retirement of M A Macario; and
  R Macnamara was appointed to the Board, the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and Audit Committee at the AGM in June 2010. He has 
an excellent background in finance and public company management. R Macnamara chairs the Nomination Committee.
The following changes to the Group’s Board will take place:
  M A Macario, who joined the Board in 1996, will not be seeking re‑election at the AGM to be held in June 2011. He is currently Chair of the Audit Committee 
and is the Senior Independent Director; and
 the role of Senior Independent Director will be assumed by P F Dicks on the retirement of M A Macario.
The biographical details of the Directors are shown on pages 22 and 23. These indicate the high level and range of business experience which enables the Group to be managed 
effectively. Their mix of skills and business experience is a major contribution to the proper functioning of the Board and its Committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated. 32 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance statement
continued
External appointments and commitments
The Chairman, R Holt, is also Chairman of Green Compliance plc.
Board responsibility
The Board maintains and regularly reviews a full list of matters and decisions which are reserved to, and can only be approved by, the Board. These are reviewed 
annually and include but are not limited to:
 Group strategy and operating plans; 
 corporate governance and risk management;
 compliance with laws, regulations and the Company’s code of business conduct; 
 financing and treasury, including the approval of budgets and major capital acquisitions; 
 appointment, termination and remuneration of Directors and the Company Secretary;
 financial reporting and audit, including interim and full‑year results announcements and dividends; 
 approving significant acquisitions, disposals and new business start‑ups;
 ethics; and
 employee benefits including pensions and share‑based payments.
Evaluation of Board performance
The Board undertakes formal evaluation of its own performance and the Board Committees assess their respective roles, performance and terms of reference and 
report accordingly to the Board. The Board assesses the reviews of each Committee. The Chairman carried out an evaluation of the Board in the summer of 2010 
by holding individual meetings with each Director to discuss their views and to canvass suggestions.
The performance evaluation process included: a review of the areas of Board responsibility; the structure and composition of the Board and its Committees and the 
performance of the Committees; the quantity, quality and scope of information provided to the Board; the content of Board meetings and presentations to meetings; 
and the openness of communications between the Board members and Executive management. The Board members concluded that appropriate actions had been 
identified to address areas that could be improved and that, overall, the Board and its Committees continued to operate effectively.
The performance of the Chairman was reviewed separately in a process led by the Senior Independent Director.
Following the performance evaluation of individual Directors, the Chairman has confirmed that the Non‑Executive Directors standing for re‑election at this year’s AGM 
continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles. In particular the Board is strongly of the opinion that by their actions and conduct they 
demonstrate their independence notwithstanding the number of years they have served as Directors of the Company. It is the Board’s intention to continue to annually 
review its performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors. A decision is taken each year on the performance evaluation process to be used.
Board meetings
The Board meets regularly throughout the year as well as on an ad hoc basis, as required by time critical business needs. The Board receives detailed financial 
information and regular presentations from Executives on Mears’ business performance. Directors are supplied with an agenda and supporting papers for all Board 
meetings on a timely basis along with minutes of previous Board Committee meetings. This enables the Directors to make informed decisions on corporate and 
business issues under consideration. When Directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are advised of the matters to be discussed and given an opportunity 
to make their views known to the Chairman prior to the meeting.
During the year, six scheduled Board meetings were held. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 33
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Board meetings continued
The Non‑Executive Directors meet independently without the Chairman present, and also meet with the Chairman independently of management, on a regular basis. 
The Non‑Executive Directors also independently meet each of the Executive Directors formally twice a year.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed. 
Any Director, on appointment and throughout their service, receives an induction and is entitled to receive any training which is considered necessary to fulfil 
their responsibilities effectively.
The Directors delegate responsibilities for the day‑to‑day operational and financial management of the Group to the Senior Management T eam.
Senior Management Team
The Senior Management T eam, which comprises Senior Executives across each of the Group’s operational divisions and support functions, is the principal forum for 
directing the operational and financial business of the Group and for delivering the strategy set by the Board. All Executive Directors are present at the bi‑monthly 
meetings; all Non‑Executive Directors are invited to attend.
Board Committees
The Board has established three Committees, each with clearly defined terms of reference, procedures, responsibilities and powers. The terms of reference of the 
Committees are available from the Company Secretary.
The Chairman of each Committee provides a report of any meeting of that Committee at the next Board meeting. Each Committee includes Non‑Executive Directors, 
as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code 2008.
The Chairmen of each Committee are present at the AGM to answer questions from shareholders. 
Through the Audit Committee, the Directors ensure the integrity of financial information, the effectiveness of the financial controls and the internal control and risk 
management systems. The Nomination Committee recommends the appointment of Board Directors and has responsibility for evaluating the balance of the Board and for 
succession planning at Board level. The Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and determines their individual remuneration arrangements. 
Meeting attendance
All Directors are encouraged to attend all Board meetings and meetings of Committees of which they are members.
Directors’ attendance at Board meetings and Committee meetings during 2010 is shown on the table on page 35.
Audit Committee
Since 9 June 2010, the Audit Committee has comprised D Marston, R Macnamara and, its Chairman, M A Macario. Prior to 9 June 2010, the Audit Committee 
comprised R B Pomphrett, P F Dicks and M A Macario. The presence of other Senior Executives from the Group may be requested.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing: 
 the integrity of the interim and annual financial statements, including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained in them;
 the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and risk management and control over financial reporting;
 internal audit plans, including the review of significant findings, management action plans and timeliness of resolution;
  the Group’s overall approach to ensuring compliance with laws, regulations and Company policies in areas of risk, accounting standards and generally accepted 
accounting principles;
 the Group’s relationship with the external auditor, including their independence and management’s response to any major external audit recommendations; 
 the Group’s policy in relation to the provision of non‑audit services by the auditor;
 the appointment and review of the Group Risk Officer;
 the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function; and
 the preservation of good financial practices throughout the Group. 
In addition, the fees and objectivity of the Group’s auditor are considered by the Committee.  34 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance statement
continued
Board Committees continued
Audit Committee continued
During the year, the Audit Committee received detailed presentations from the Group’s auditor and reviewed the findings of the external auditor from its audit 
of the annual financial statements. 
The Audit Committee is committed to ensuring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor. During the year the Committee assessed the qualifications, 
expertise, resources and independence of the external auditor, as well as its on‑going effectiveness and considered the audit process on the basis of meetings and 
an internal review with finance, audit staff and other senior management. In reviewing the independence of the external auditor, the Audit Committee considered 
a number of factors, including: the standing, experience and tenure of the external audit partner; the nature and level of services provided by the external auditor; 
and confirmation from the external auditor that it has complied with relevant UK independence standards. This is particularly important in light of the tax compliance 
and advice being performed by the same firm. This is safeguarded through a review of the level of non‑audit work which is given to the audit firm. The Committee also 
reviews the term of office of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee has monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the internal systems and controls in place, taking into account the key business and financial 
risks and mitigation towards these.
The Audit Committee considers the need for an internal audit function annually. After due consideration the Committee has recommended to the Board that a formal 
internal audit function is not considered necessary due to the regular involvement of central functions such as business analysts and the regional finance team in branch 
activities. This position will be re‑considered during 2011. The Committee has recommended to the Board that a small independent team continues to investigate 
any allegations brought to its attention through the Group’s whistleblowing procedure. This team operated throughout 2010 and remains in place.
Nomination Committee
Since 9 June 2010, the Nomination Committee has comprised P F Dicks, M A Macario and, its Chairman, R Macnamara. Prior to 9 June 2010, the Nomination Committee 
comprised R Holt, R B Pomphrett, M A Macario, and its Chairman, P F Dicks.
The Committee meets at least once a year and is responsible for keeping under review the composition of the Board and succession to it and succession planning for 
senior management positions within the Group. It makes recommendations to the Board concerning appointments to the Board, whether of Executive or Non‑Executive 
Directors, having regard to the balance and structure of the Board and the required blend of skills and experience. The Committee also makes recommendations 
to the Board concerning the re‑appointment of any Non‑Executive Director at the conclusion of his/her specified term and the re‑election of any Director by shareholders 
under the retirement provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association.
D J Miles was appointed as Chief Executive during the year after a rigorous process of succession planning which has involved discussions with major shareholders 
and customers. The appointment was approved by the Nomination Committee. The process has been underway internally for some time resulting in a stable and smooth transition.
Remuneration Committee
Since 9 June 2010, the Remuneration Committee has comprised M A Macario, R Macnamara and, its Chairman, P F Dicks. Prior to 9 June 2010, the Remuneration 
Committee comprised M A Macario, P F Dicks and, its Chairman, R B Pomphrett.
The Committee meets twice a year and is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the broad remuneration policy for: 
 the Chairman, the Executive Directors and senior management; and
 the Executive Directors’ remuneration and other benefits and terms of employment, including performance related bonuses and share options.
No Director is involved in determining his own remuneration.
The Committee also approves the service agreements of each Executive Director, including termination arrangements.
All Directors are encouraged to attend all Board meetings and meetings of Committees of which they are members. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 35
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Board Committees continued
Remuneration Committee continued
Directors’ attendance at Board meetings and Committee meetings during 2010 is shown in the following table:
   Audit  Nomination  Remuneration 
 Board  Committee  Committee  Committee
Number of meetings      Potential Actual Potential Actual Potential Actual Potential Actual
R Holt       6 6 — — — — — —
D J Miles       6 6 — — — — — —
A C M Smith      6 6 — — — — — —
A Long       6 6 — — — — — —
M G Rogers      6 6 — — — — — —
M A Macario      6 6 3 3 1 1 3 3
R B Pomphrett*      2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1
P F Dicks       6 6 1 1 1 1 3 3
D L Hosein      6 6 — — — — — —
D Marston*      4 4 2 2 — — — —
R Macnamara*      4 4 2 2 — — 2 2
 * D Marston and R Macnamara were appointed to the Board and R B Pomphrett did not seek re‑election at the AGM on 9 June 2010.
Share capital
At 31 December 2010 the structure of the Company’s capital is as follows:
               Percentage 
             Nominal   of issued 
             value  ordinary 
            Issued per share Total shared 
            Number p £’000 %
Ordinary shares          84,815,470 1 848 100
Rights and obligations
Dividends
The 1p ordinary shares carry the right to discretionary dividends determined by the Company’s Directors.
Voting rights
The 1p ordinary shares carry the right to one vote per share.
Restrictions on transfer of shareholdings
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the 1p ordinary shares in issue.
Special control rights
None of the shares in issue contain any special control rights.
Share schemes
At 31 December 2010, 7,502,411 options over 1p ordinary shares were in place. In addition, 2,500,000 options vested in November 2010 under the terms of the 
Special Incentive Plan approved by shareholders on 16 November 2007. Upon exercise the new 1p ordinary shares have equal rights with regards to the control 
of the Company as the 1p ordinary shares already in issue. Further detail on these options is available in note 6 to the accounts. 36 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
The Company and its shareholders
The Group places a great deal of importance on communication with its shareholders. The Board is committed to maintaining an on‑going dialogue with its shareholders 
through the provision of regular Interim and Annual Reports and regular trading reports. 
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders as well as general presentations after the interim and preliminary results. Throughout the year the Group 
arranged a number of site visits for shareholders and other City commentators with the aim of providing them with increased exposure to our operations and management.
The principal methods of communication with private investors remain the Annual Report and Accounts, the interim statement, the quarterly newsletters and the 
Group’s website (www.mearsgroup.co.uk), where the Group highlights the latest key business developments. 
Internal control and risk management
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that the Directors review the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control. This extends the Directors’ review 
to cover all material controls, including operational, compliance and financial controls and risk management systems. The Directors are satisfied that procedures are 
in place to ensure that the Group complies with the Turnbull Committee guidance published by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and that 
the procedures have been applied during the year.
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The Board has delegated some of these responsibilities to the 
Audit Committee who has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and ensured that any remedial action has or is being taken on any identified 
weaknesses. The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. It includes all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls 
and risk management procedures.
The Board confirms that the Group has in place an on‑going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. The Group 
endeavours to ensure that the appropriate controls, systems and training are in place and has established procedures for all business units to operate appropriate 
and effective risk management. 
The processes used to assess the effectiveness of the internal control systems are on‑going, allowing a cumulative assessment to be made, and include the following:
 delegation of day‑to‑day management to operational management within clearly defined systems of control, including:
	  the identification of levels of authority within clearly identified organisational reporting structures;
	   the identification and appraisal of financial risks both formally, within the annual process of preparing business plans and budgets, and informally, through 
close monitoring of operations;
	   a comprehensive financial reporting system within which actual results are compared with approved budgets, quarterly re‑forecasts and previous years’ figures 
on a monthly basis and reviewed at both local and Group level; and
	   an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate level of approval for all capital and revenue expenditure;
  discussion and approval by the Board of the Group’s strategic directions, plans and objectives and the risks to achieving them, combined with regular reviews by 
management of the risks to achieving objectives and actions being taken to mitigate them;
  review and approval by the Board of annual budgets, combined with regular operational and financial reviews of performance against budget, prior year results 
and regular forecasts by management and the Board;
  the review and approval of all bids, acquisitions and capital expenditure within the Group;
 regular reviews by the Board and Audit Committee of identified fraudulent activity and actions being taken to remedy any control weaknesses;
  regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee of the scope and results of internal and external audit work across the Group and the implementation 
of recommendations; and
  consideration by the Board and by the Audit Committee of the major risks facing the Group and of the procedures in place to manage them and to ensure controls 
react to changes in the Group’s overall risk profile. These include health and safety, legal compliance, quality assurance, insurance and security and reputational, 
social, ethical and environmental risks.
Corporate governance statement
continued Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 37
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Internal control and risk management continued
The Board has reviewed these procedures and considers them appropriate given the nature of the Group’s operations. The system of internal control and risk 
management is embedded into the operations of the Group and the actions taken to mitigate any weaknesses are carefully monitored.
The key controls in place are:
 a defined organisational structure and an appropriate level of delegated responsibility to operational management;
 authorisation limits for financial and non‑financial transactions;
 written operational procedures;
 a robust system of financial budgeting and forecasting;
 a robust system of financial reporting with actual results compared to budget and forecast results; and
 a regular reporting of operational performance and risks to the Board.
Additionally, in line with The UK Corporate Governance Code, the Group has arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its Directors.
This report was approved by the Board and has been signed on its behalf by:
M A Macario
Senior Independent Non‑Executive Director
15 April 2011  38 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Remuneration report
Introduction
This report has been prepared in accordance with SI 2008/410 Schedule 8 (the ‘Regulations’). The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance 
Code (‘Combined Code’) relating to Directors’ remuneration. As required by the Regulations, an advisory resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the AGM 
of the Company at which the financial statements will be approved. 
The auditor is required to report on the ‘auditable’ part of this report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. The report is therefore divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Part 2 of the Regulations – unaudited information
Remuneration Committee
The Directors who were members of the Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’) during the year are shown on page 34.
In 2010, the Committee continued to engage PwC and received wholly independent advice on Executive compensation.
The Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference and its main responsibilities are detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 34.
In summary, the Committee determines the total individual remuneration packages of each Executive Director of the Company and certain other senior employees 
(and any exit terms) and recommends to the Board the framework and broad policies of the Group in relation to Senior Executive remuneration. The Committee 
determines the targets for all of the Group’s performance related remuneration and exercises the Board’s powers in relation to all of the Group’s share and 
incentive plans.
The Committee met three times during 2010 and discussed, amongst others, the issues set out in the table below:
Meeting Key issues discussed Attendees
March – A review of Executive Directors’ and senior management’s base salaries and pension provision All Committee members
  – Consideration and approval of bonus payments for Executive Directors 
  – Approval of the 2009 Directors’ Remuneration Report 
August –  Approval of the performance targets for the Long‑term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Awards granted  
to Executive Directors and associated awards  All Committee members
December – Review of Executive Directors’ base salaries and structure of 2011 bonus All Committee members
Annual overview
R B Pomphrett was Chair of the Remuneration Committee until June 2010 when he did not seek re‑election to the Board at the AGM. P F Dicks assumed this role from 
June 2010.
The Committee has continued to work to build investor confidence with regard to its Executive remuneration policies and is committed to the following actions:
 a commitment to improve the level of openness and transparency in remuneration reporting through a detailed annual Remuneration Report;
  no increase in the Chairman’s salary for 2010, 2011 or 2012 and a commitment to reduce the salary level from October 2010 and to review at regular intervals 
thereafter to reflect the role and responsibilities of the Chairman going forward in accordance with the implementation of the succession planning strategy;
  the introduction of a structured bonus arrangement with clear financial and individual performance targets for each year. This exercise was delayed into 2011 
to take into account the changes to the Board and other corporate and business developments in what has been a transformational year for the Group;
  a strategic review of the remuneration policies for other Executive Directors and other Senior Executives within the Group to ensure that they remain appropriate 
to retain and motivate such individuals. This will be undertaken on an annual basis;
  a commitment to take into account the various changes principles proposed by the Walker Review and other pronouncements by regulatory bodies and institutional 
shareholders and their representative bodies;
  to encourage Executive Directors and Senior Executives to build up a meaningful shareholding in the Company to more closely align the interests of shareholders 
and Executives; and
  to be kept fully aware and informed on developments and best practice in the field of remuneration and corporate governance from both external advisers, 
institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
Notwithstanding the above, the Committee recognises that the success of Mears is down to the efforts of key individuals and that they should be fairly rewarded 
for their efforts and contributions in making Mears the success it is. The following section details how remuneration is structured. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 39
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Part 2 of the Regulations – unaudited information continued
Remuneration policy and philosophy
The Committee has adopted the following remuneration principles in supporting its primary objective of ensuring that the Group has in place a remuneration 
structure that is able to incentivise and retain highly skilled and motivated individuals who are the cornerstone of the continued success of the Group:
 levels of remuneration should be appropriate to retain and motivate the Executive talent required to meet the Group’s objectives;
 incentive arrangements for key individuals should be capable of providing exceptional levels of total payment if outstanding performance is achieved;
 the significant component of each Executive’s total compensation should be delivered through performance related pay and the provision of equity; and
 a commitment to fostering a strong performance culture that aligns individual’s rewards with the key corporate metrics which drive shareholder value creation.
The charts below demonstrate the balance between fixed and maximum variable pay for each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2010:
 Executive Director  Balance between fixed and performance based compensation (variable compensation)
64% 36%
66% 34%
65% 35%
73% 27%
 Fixed compensation 
 Variable compensation
R Holt
D J Miles
A C M Smith
A Long
Salary
The purpose of the base salary is to:
 help recruit and retain key individuals;
 reflect the individual’s experience, role and contribution within the Group; and
 ensure fair reward for ‘doing the job’.
The Committee reviews base salaries annually in order to ensure that Executive Directors remain competitively aligned with external market practices. 
The Committee will retain the discretion to increase an individual’s salary (other than that of the Chairman) where there is a significant differential between current 
levels and a market competitive rate. However, in determining whether to increase levels the Committee will take the following into consideration:
 the performance of the individual Executive Director;
 the individual Executive Director’s experience and responsibilities;
 the impact on fixed costs of any increase; and
 pay and conditions throughout the Group. 40 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Remuneration report
continued
Part 2 of the Regulations – unaudited information continued
Remuneration policy and philosophy continued
Annual bonus
The Group offers Executive Directors and senior management the opportunity to earn performance related bonuses.
The purpose of the annual bonus is to incentivise Executive Directors and senior management to achieve financial, strategic, operational and individual targets during 
a one‑year period and reward on‑going stewardship of the Group and contribution to core values.
Maximum bonus levels and the proportion payable for on‑target performance are considered in the light of market bonus levels for the job in competitors and the quoted 
support services sector.
The maximum bonus potential for the Executive Directors for 2010 was 110% of salary, reducing to 75% in subsequent years. 
The Committee recognises and appreciates the efforts and contributions of the Executive Directors and all employees of the Company in a challenging economic 
environment. There were no bonus payments in respect of 2010.
For 2011, the Committee will set clear objectives for each individual Executive Director relating to Group KPIs plus individual (where relevant) divisional and strategic 
targets taking into account where an individual has particular influence and responsibility. Such targets will include:
 delivery and mobilisation of new contracts;
 delivery of acquisition strategy;
 shaping and development of Domiciliary Care business;
 succession planning; and
 financial performance.
The Committee will set out in its 2011 Remuneration Report further information of what those targets are for each individual and the level of performance attained 
against each of those targets and the resultant level of bonus payment. The Committee will also determine, prior to the payment of bonus, the level of deferral into 
Company shares, if any, which must be held for a period of three years.
It should be noted that all bonus payments are not pensionable.
For 2011 and future years, annual bonuses will be based on a combination of performance measures:
Measure   Proportion Objective
      The Group’s  Profit before T ax and   Threshold Budget Maximum 
      financial   Amortisation (PBTA)     
      performance        
      is measured   Achievement   <100% 100% 110% 
Financial performance 2/3  against annual        
      budgets that        
      drive corporate  Payment – % of salary  0% 26.67% 50% 
      performance       
              
Personal objectives  1/3   Performance  Typical KPIs include:   Below target T arget Maximum  
      is measured  Business development 
       annually against  Bid wins ratios     
       agreed personal  Working capital control  Aggregate Aggregate Aggregate 
      objectives that  Service ratings   payout is payout is payout is 
      will support the Margins    0% 13.33% 25% 
      achievement of  Complaint ratios 
      the Group’s  Jobs completed on time ratios     
      business goals  People development     
        HSE targets      
        Revenue growth
Total bonus (as % of base salary)        — 40% 75%
For the KPIs there will be a balanced scorecard approach applied to each of the Executive Directors. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 41
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Part 2 of the Regulations – unaudited information continued
Remuneration policy and philosophy continued
Benefits and pension
The Executive Directors receive additional benefits including a Company provided car or an allowance in lieu, life assurance and private medical insurance. 
Benefits‑in‑kind are not pensionable.
All Executive Directors receive contributions into their respective defined contribution plans. The Committee is of the opinion that contribution rates are competitive 
against the market.
Full details of pension costs for Executive Directors are set out in the audited section of this report on page 44.
Share awards
Long‑term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
For other Executive Directors and certain members of the Senior Management T eam. The Remuneration Committee’s policy is to provide annual share grants 
to Executives at a market competitive level. The Remuneration Committee believes that share awards under the LTIP enable the Group to provide a competitive 
incentive and retention tool which is also cost effective in respect of both shareholder dilution and income statement expense. This structure demonstrates 
the Remuneration Committee’s desire to correlate incentive arrangements with the achievement of substantial performance. 
The operation of the LTIP and the main terms and conditions are set out in the following table:
Feature T erms and conditions  
Maximum individual limit p.a. 200% of salary p.a. 
 Awards made annually in the form of nil‑cost options.
Performance conditions  For L TIP Awards made in 2010, 75% of the award vests based on the growth in Group EPS performance and a comparative 
TSR underpins whereby the Company’s TSR must at least exceed the return of the FTSE All Share Index.
2008–9 LTIP shares  2010 LTIP shares  
performance level p.a. Level of vesting performance level p.a. Level of vesting
10.0% 10% 8.0% 10%
12.5% 30% 12.5% 30%
15.0% 100% 15.0% 100%
Straight‑line vesting between points. EPS will be calculated pre amortisation.
The other 25% of the LTIP Award relates to the Company’s TSR against the return of the FTSE All Share Support Services Sector as follows: 
Company’s performance level Level of vesting
Below Index return 0%
Equal to Index return 30%
10% outperformance of the Index p.a. 100%
Straight‑line vesting between points.
The two conditions are measured independently. Awards will be released on the third anniversary of the date of grant subject to the achievement of the relevant 
performance conditions over the same period. 42 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Remuneration report
continued
Part 2 of the Regulations – unaudited information continued
Remuneration policy and philosophy continued
Share awards continued
Long‑term Incentive Plan (LTIP) continued
The following table sets out the level of vesting based on performance to date for all outstanding LTIP awards:
         Percentage of award vesting
Year of grant   Performance period     TSR EPS Total
2008   October 2008 – October 2011    0% 30% 15.0%
2009   October 2009 – October 2012    0% 30% 15.0%
2010   August 2010 – August 2013    0% 10% 7.5%
Share options
Although the policy on equity incentivisation is through the provision of the LTIP Awards, Executive Directors and senior management hold share options in the Company.
The tables on pages 45 and 46 set out the number of share awards held by the Executive Directors.
All‑employee share plans
The Group encourages share ownership by employees and, accordingly, it operates an all‑employee share plan.
Under the terms of the Sharesave Plan all UK employees can save up to £250 per month and receive three or five year options to acquire the Company’s shares priced 
at a discount of up to 20%. 
Dilution
In accordance with the Association of British Insurers’ guidelines, the Company can issue a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital (in addition to the SIP) 
in a rolling ten‑year period to employees under all its share plans. In addition, of this 10% the Company can only issue 5% to satisfy awards under discretionary 
or Executive plans. The Company operates all its share plans within these guidelines.
Other remuneration matters
Executive Directors’ contracts
Details of the service contracts of the Executive Directors of the Company are as follows: 
  Company  
  notice Contract  
Name period date
R Holt 6 months 4 June 2008
D J Miles 12 months 4 June 2008
A C M Smith 12 months 4 June 2008
A Long 12 months 18 August 2009
All Executive Directors’ contracts are rolling and, therefore, will continue unless terminated by the written notice set out above. In the event of the termination 
of an Executive’s contract, salary and benefits will be payable during the notice period (there will, however, be no automatic entitlement to bonus payments or share 
incentive grants during the period of notice other than where normal good leaver provisions apply). The Committee will ensure that there have been no unjustified 
payments for performance failure on an Executive Director’s termination of employment. There are no special provisions in the contracts of employment extending 
notice periods on the liquidation of the Company or cessation of employment. The maximum notice period on a change of control is twelve months.
Executive Directors have an obligation to inform the Board, specifically the Remuneration Committee, of any Non‑Executive positions held or being contemplated 
and of the associated remuneration package. The Remuneration Committee will consider the merits of each case and carefully consider the work and time commitment 
required to fulfil the Non‑Executive duties and the potential benefit to the Group, and then determine whether the remuneration should be retained by the Executive 
or passed over to the Group. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 43
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Part 2 of the Regulations – unaudited information continued
Other remuneration matters continued
Non‑Executive Directors’ fee level
The remuneration of the Non‑Executive Directors is determined by the Board and is within the limits set by the Articles of Association. Assistance is also available from 
the Group’s remuneration advisers. 
The Non‑Executive Director fees are set out in the following table:
              2010 2009 
Name             £’000 £’000
R B Pomphrett*            18 42
M A Macario            42 42
D L Hosein            42 42
M G Rogers            42 42
P F Dicks             42 42
D Marston*            23 —
R Macnamara*            23 —
*  D Marston and R Macnamara were appointed to the Board and R B Pomphrett did not seek re‑election at the AGM on 9 June 2010.
The levels of fees for the Non‑Executive Directors are set taking into account the following factors:
 the role and responsibility of the Non‑Executive Director;
 the experience of the Non‑Executive Director; and
 comparative levels using the same comparators as are used for setting the salary levels for the Executive Directors.
Details of the current Non‑Executive Directors’ appointment dates are:
          Effective date of letter of  
Name         appointment or last renewal
M A Macario         4 June 2008
D L Hosein         4 June 2008
M G Rogers         4 June 2008
P F Dicks         4 June 2008
D Marston         9 June 2010
R Macnamara         9 June 2010
Non‑Executive Directors do not participate in any bonus plan or share incentive programme operated by the Company and are not entitled to pension contributions. 
The Non‑Executive Directors do not have service contracts. Letters of appointment run for a rolling six‑month period.
Five‑year TSR performance graph









  

	
��

The graph shows the Group’s performance, measured by TSR, compared with the constituents of the FTSE All Share Support Service Sector over the last five years. 
The Index is the most relevant to compare the Group’s performance against its peers.  44 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Part 3 of the Regulations – audited information
The remuneration of each Director, excluding long‑term, share‑based incentive awards and pensions, during the year ended 31 December 2010 compared with 2009 
is set out in the table below:
           Fees/  Benefits 2010 2009 
           basic salary Bonus in kind Total Total 
Directors’ remuneration         £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive     
R Holt          450 — 15 465 960
D J Miles          230 — 9 239 219
A C M Smith         170 — 4 174 154
A Long          160 — 4 164 153
           1,010 — 32 1,042 1,486
Non‑Executive     
R B Pomphrett*         18 — — 18 42
M A Macario         42 — — 42 42
D L Hosein         42 — — 42 42
M G Rogers         42 — — 42 42
P F Dicks          42 — — 42 42
D Marston*         23 — — 23 —
R Macnamara*         23 — — 23 —
           232 — — 232 210
Total remuneration         1,242 — 32 1,274 1,696
* D Marston and R Macnamara were appointed to the Board and R B Pomphrett did not seek re‑election at the AGM on 9 June 2010.
Executive Directors’ pensions (defined contribution)
              2010 2009 
              Total Total 
              £’000 £’000
R Holt             135 135
D J Miles             31 28
A C M Smith            17 15
A Long             16 15
              199 193
Remuneration report
continued Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 45
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Part 3 of the Regulations – audited information continued
Mears Group PLC Special Incentive Plan (SIP)
The SIP was approved by shareholders on 16 November 2007 and its terms and conditions amended following shareholder approval in July 2009.
Awards under the LTIP are set out in the table below:
      SIP Awards 
   SIP Awards to   held at 
   1 January   31 December  Date of 
Date of grant  2010 Granted Lapsed 2010  release
R Holt
28 September 2009*  2,500,000 — — 2,500,000  November 2010 – 60%
        November 2011 – 20%
        November 2012 – 20%
*  The performance conditions attaching to this award were satisfied in full and therefore the award vested in full in November 2010.
Mears Group PLC Long‑term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The LTIP was approved by shareholders on 1 October 2008. Awards under the LTIP are set out in the table below:
      L TIP Awards   
   LTIP Awards   held at  
   to 1 January   31 December  Date of 
Date of grant  2010 Granted Lapsed 2010  release
D J Miles
13 October 2008  100,000 — — 100,000  October 2011
28 October 2009  100,000 — — 100,000  October 2012
24 August 2010  — 175,000 — 175,000  August 2013
A C M Smith  
13 October 2008  100,000 — — 100,000  October 2011
28 October 2009  100,000 — — 100,000  October 2012
24 August 2010  — 130,000 — 130,000  August 2013
A Long  
13 October 2008  100,000 — — 100,000  October 2011
28 October 2009  100,000 — — 100,000  October 2012
24 August 2010  — 100,000 — 100,000  August 2013
LTIP Awards are in the form of nil‑cost options. If the relevant EPS and TSR performance conditions attaching to the awards are satisfied then the Director has seven years 
in which to exercise the award. 46 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Part 3 of the Regulations – audited information continued
Details of Directors’ interests in shares held under option
Executive Directors hold the following options granted under the Mears Group Share Option Scheme:
    At   At Exercise  
    1 January   31 December price  Exercisable 
Date of grant   2010 Lapsed Exercised 2010 p dates
R Holt  
10 April 2003   129,870 — — 129,870 77 2006 – 2013
10 April 2003   240,642 — — 240,642 1 2006 – 2013
1 April 2004   30,453 — — 30,453 1 2007 – 2014
D J Miles  
1 April 2004   30,453 — — 30,453 1 2007 – 2014
8 April 2005   7,220 — — 7,220 1 2008 – 2015
21 April 2006   10,000 — — 10,000 300 2009 – 2016
21 April 2006   6,087 — — 6,087 1 2009 – 2016
28 September 2007   50,045 — — 50,045 1 2010 – 2017
20 March 2008   151,149 — — 151,149 1 2011 – 2018
A C M Smith  
10 April 2003   50,000 — — 50,000 77 2006 – 2013
1 April 2004   24,363 — — 24,363 1 2007 – 2014
8 April 2005   7,220 — — 7,220 1 2008 – 2015
21 April 2006   10,000 — — 10,000 300 2009 – 2016
21 April 2006   6,087 — — 6,087 1 2009 – 2016
28 September 2007   50,045 — — 50,045 1 2010 – 2017
20 March 2008   100,766 — — 100,766 1 2011 – 2018
A Long  
21 April 2006   10,000 — — 10,000 300 2009 – 2016
21 April 2006   6,087 — — 6,087 1 2009 – 2016
28 September 2007   20,018 — — 20,018 1 2010 – 2017
20 March 2008   75,575 — — 75,575 1 2011 – 2018
Options are exercisable at the prices indicated which are equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date 
of grant. The vesting period is three years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire and are forfeited 
if the Director leaves Mears Group PLC before the option vests.
F or those options with an exercise price of 1p, these options which were previously market‑priced options but were replaced with a lower number of nil‑cost options with the same 
expected value and terms and conditions. These nil‑cost options can only be exercised if the share price is greater than the original exercise price of the market‑priced options.
The agreements covering Directors’ options and LTIP Awards are available for inspection at the Group’s offices. The Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests 
(which is also open to inspection) contains full details of the Directors’ shareholdings and options to subscribe.
This report was approved by the Board and has been signed on its behalf by:
P F Dicks
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
15 April 2011
Remuneration report
continued Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 47
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
We have audited the financial statements of Mears Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Group principal accounting policies, 
Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, related Group notes, Company principal accounting policies, Parent Company Balance Sheet and related 
Company notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation 
of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, 
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 30, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (United Kingdom and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of the Group’s 
profit for the year then ended; 
 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union;
 the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006;
 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
  the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 31 to 37 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation 
to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements. 
Report of the independent auditor
to the members of Mears Group PLC 48 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; 
  the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; 
 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; 
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review:
 the Directors’ statement, set out on page 26, in relation to going concern;  
  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified 
for our review; and
  certain elements of the report to the shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration.
J Geraint Davies
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants
Bristol
15 April 2011
Report of the independent auditor
to the members of Mears Group PLC
continued Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 49 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Group accounts
Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 49
Review of the year  
Directors and corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk 50 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Principal accounting policies – Group
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union. The financial statements 
are prepared under the historical cost convention.
The accounting policies remain unchanged from the previous year except for the adoption of IAS 27 (Revised) ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ 
and IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business Combinations’.
IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business Combinations’ (effective from 1 July 2009) continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations. There is no requirement 
to restate comparative acquisitions made on or before 31 December 2009. The Group has applied IFRS 3 (Revised) prospectively to all business combinations from 
1 January 2010. The most significant change from the Group’s previous policies on business combinations is that any acquisition transaction costs, which would have 
previously been included in the cost of a business combination, are now expensed through the Income Statement as they are incurred.
IAS 27 (Revised) ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ (effective from 1 July 2009), was applied from 1 January 2010, but has not had a material 
impact on the Group.
The Directors consider that as at the date of approving the financial statements, there is a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. The Directors have discussed the principal risks and uncertainties of the business in the report of the Directors on pages 27 and 28.
Basis of consolidation
The Consolidated Balance Sheet includes the assets and liabilities of the Company and its subsidiaries and is made up to 31 December 2010. Entities over which the 
Group has the ability to exercise control over financial and operating policies are accounted for as subsidiaries. Control is obtained and exercised through voting rights 
so as to obtain benefits from its activities. Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition and interests sold are consolidated up 
to the date of disposal.
Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method. The purchase method involves the recognition at fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities, 
including contingent liabilities of the subsidiary at the acquisition date, regardless of whether or not they were recorded in the financial statements of the subsidiary prior 
to acquisition. On initial recognition, the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at their fair values, which are also used 
as the bases for subsequent measurement in accordance with the Group accounting policies. Goodwill is stated after separating out identifiable intangible assets. 
Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
The Company is entitled to the merger relief offered by Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of the consideration received in excess of the nominal 
value of the equity shares issued in connection with the acquisition of Careforce Group plc and Supporta plc.
All significant intercompany transactions and balances between Group enterprises, including unrealised profits arising from intra‑group transactions, are eliminated 
on consolidation; no profit is taken on sales between Group companies. 
Costs relating to acquisitions in the year have been expensed.
Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost, net of depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition 
of the items. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future 
economic benefits associated with the item will flow into the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged 
to the Income Statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated to write down the cost less estimated residual value over their estimated useful economic 
lives. The rates generally applicable are:
Freehold buildings  – 2% per annum, straight‑line 
Leasehold improvements – over the period of the lease, straight‑line 
Plant and machinery – 25% per annum, reducing balance 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment – 25% per annum, reducing balance 
Motor vehicles – 25% per annum, reducing balance 
Assets under construction – nil
Residual values are reviewed annually and updated if appropriate. The carrying value is reviewed for impairment in the period if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. An asset’s carrying value is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount 
is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within administrative expenses in the 
Income Statement. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 51
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Intangible assets
In accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business Combinations’, an intangible asset acquired in a business combination is deemed to have a cost to the Group of its fair 
value at the acquisition date. The fair value of the intangible asset reflects market expectations about the probability that the future economic benefits embodied 
in the asset will flow to the Group. Where an intangible asset might be separable, but only together with a related tangible or intangible asset, the group of assets 
is recognised as a single asset separately from goodwill where the individual fair values of the assets in the Group are not reliably measurable. Where the individual 
fair value of the complementary assets are reliably measurable, the Group recognises them as a single asset provided the individual assets have similar useful lives. 
Intangible assets are amortised over the useful economic life of those assets. 
Development costs incurred on software development are capitalised when all the following conditions are satisfied:
  completion of the software module is technically feasible so that it will be available for use;
  the Group intends to complete the development of the module and use it;
  the software will be used in generating probable future economic benefits; 
  there are adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use the software; and
  the expenditure attributable to the software during its development can be measured reliably.
Costs incurred making intellectual property available for use (including any associated borrowing costs) are capitalised when all of the following conditions are satisfied:
  completion of the data set is technically feasible so that it will be available for use;
  the Group intends to complete the preparation of the data and use it;
  the data will be used in generating probable future economic benefits; 
  there are adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the data set and to use it; and
  the expenditure attributable to the intellectual property during its development can be measured reliably.
Development costs not meeting the criteria for capitalisation are expensed as incurred. Careful judgement by management is applied when deciding whether 
the recognition requirements for development costs have been met. This is necessary as the economic success of any development is uncertain and may be subject 
to future technical problems at the time of recognition. Judgements are based on the information available at each balance sheet date. In addition, all internal 
activities related to the research and development of new software are continuously monitored by management.
The cost of an internally generated intangible asset comprises all directly attributable costs necessary to create, produce and prepare the asset to be capable 
of operating in the manner intended by management. Directly attributable costs include employee costs incurred on software development.
Amortisation commences upon completion of the asset and is shown within other administrative expenses. Until completion of the project, the assets are subject 
to impairment testing only. Development expenditure is amortised over the period expected to benefit.
The identifiable intangible assets and associated periods of amortisation are as follows:
Order book – over the period of the order book, typically three years 
Client relationships – over the period expected to benefit, typically five years 
Development expenditure – 25% per annum, straight‑line 
Intellectual property – over the period of usefulness of the intellectual property, typically five years
Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents any excess of the cost of the acquired entity over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the entity’s 
identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and is capitalised as a separate item. Goodwill is recognised as an intangible asset.
Under the business combinations exemption of IFRS 1, goodwill previously written off direct to reserves under UK GAAP is not recycled to the Income Statement 
on calculating a gain or loss on disposal. 52 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Principal accounting policies – Group
continued
Impairment
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows, Cash‑Generating Units (CGUs). 
As a result, some assets are tested individually for impairment and some are tested at CGU level. Goodwill is allocated to those CGUs that are expected to benefit from 
synergies of the related business combination and represent the lowest level within the Group at which management monitors the related cash flows.
Goodwill, other individual assets or CGUs that include goodwill, other intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and those intangible assets not yet available for use 
are tested for impairment at least annually. All other individual assets or CGUs are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement for the amount by which the asset or CGU’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amount is the higher of fair value, reflecting market conditions less costs to sell, and value‑in‑use based on an internal discounted cash flow evaluation. Impairment 
losses recognised for CGUs, to which goodwill has been allocated, are credited initially to the carrying amount of goodwill. Any remaining impairment loss is charged 
pro rata to the other assets in the CGU. With the exception of goodwill, all assets are subsequently reassessed for indications that an impairment loss previously 
recognised may no longer exist.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is the purchase price of materials.
Work in progress
Work in progress is included in inventories after deducting any foreseeable losses and payments on account not matched with turnover. Work in progress represents 
costs incurred on contracts that cannot be matched with contract work accounted for as turnover. Work in progress is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost comprises materials, direct labour and any subcontracted work which has been incurred in bringing the inventories and work in progress to their present 
location and condition.
Amounts recoverable on contracts
Amounts recoverable on contracts are included in trade and other receivables and represent turnover recognised in excess of payments on account.
Accounting for taxes
Income tax comprises current and deferred taxation.
Current tax assets and/or liabilities comprise those obligations to, or claims from, fiscal authorities relating to the current or prior reporting period that are unpaid 
at the balance sheet date. They are calculated according to the tax rates and tax laws applicable to the fiscal periods to which they relate, based on the taxable profit 
for the year. 
Where an item of income or expense is recognised in the Income Statement, any related tax generated is recognised as a component of tax expense in the 
Income Statement. Where an item is recognised directly to equity or presented within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, any related tax 
generated is treated similarly.
Deferred taxation is the tax expected to be repayable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements 
and corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred taxation liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable temporary differences in full with no discounting. Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. However, deferred tax is not provided on the initial 
recognition of goodwill, nor on the initial recognition of an asset or liability, unless the related transaction is a business combination or affects tax or accounting profit.
Deferred taxation is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, provided they are enacted 
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. The carrying value of deferred taxation assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent 
that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available against which taxable temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is charged or 
credited to the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 53
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Revenue
Revenue is measured in accordance with IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, for goods and services provided in the normal 
course of business, net of rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Social Housing
Revenue is recognised when the outcome of a job or contract can be estimated reliably; revenue associated with the transaction is recognised by reference to the stage 
of completion of work at the balance sheet date. The outcome of the transaction is deemed to be able to be estimated reliably when all the following conditions are satisfied:
  the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
  it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity;
  the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date can be measured reliably; and
  the costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably.
Whilst all Social Housing contracts can fit within the guidelines laid down for revenue and profit recognition as detailed above, the alternative contractual pricing 
mechanisms do result in different methods of assessing the stage of completion. The Group has therefore recognised revenue dependent on the nature of transactions 
in line with IAS 18.
There are numerous contractual pricing mechanisms but one can broadly divide these into three types: 
Schedule of Rates (SOR) contracts 
There is an element of SOR in approximately two‑thirds of contracts. At tender stage we enter a price for each of the numerous tasks carried out in respect to property 
maintenance. Typically we price for uplift or a discount against a pre‑priced schedule. This price will, in some cases, be an all‑encompassing price for the cost of direct 
works, the local site overhead, central overhead and profit contribution. In other instances, the SOR tendered may only recover direct works with an alternative 
mechanism to recover the other elements. Wherever possible, we seek to identify all individual works tickets received individually and capture costs and billing at the 
individual work ticket level. In so doing, this allows revenue to be recognised with a high degree of accuracy. Typically reactive maintenance works are invoiced within 
a month of completion, hence the majority of revenue recognised has already been individually valued at the work ticket level and the significant majority has been 
subsequently settled. The only element of revenue or profit recognition that requires judgement is against those jobs that are part complete or those completed works 
that have not been subject to a final valuation.
For part completed works, it is probable that the Group will recover the transaction costs incurred. Whether the outcome of the transaction can be estimated reliably 
needs to be considered contract by contract based on historic outcomes and knowledge of any events that may affect future job profitability. Where the outcome 
of the transaction cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent that the costs incurred are anticipated to be recovered. Where the outcome 
of the transaction can be estimated reliably, an element of anticipated profit is recognised within revenue to the extent that historic outcomes adjusted for knowledge 
of any events that may affect future job profitability supports such recognition.
For completed but not yet valued works, the outcome of the individual valued work tickets is not reviewed individually for the purposes of profit and revenue recognition. 
However, given the high volume of historical data to provide an accurate indication of underlying contract margin at a particular site, the Group considers that 
the application of an anticipated profit margin on cost to all completed and unbilled works produces a reliable measure.
For completed and valued works, the likely outcome for the individual work ticket can be determined individually for the purposes of profit and revenue recognition. 
The Group considers that the recognition of the anticipated profit for the individual job within revenue is appropriate.
Open book contracts
Typically the open book element of contracts relates to the local site overhead. A priced overhead model is usually provided to a client at tender stage and the client 
pays the Group a fixed sum for maintaining this local site. This is typically an agreed fixed price. Any over or under spends are typically at the risk of the Group. 
The actual overhead spend is often subject to an open book review which is then used as the basis for agreeing future pricing.
On the rare occasions that a contract does recover costs under a pure ‘cost plus’ arrangement, revenue is recognised in line with cost incurred and similarly 
the attributable profit recognised against that cost. 54 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Principal accounting policies – Group
continued
Revenue continued
Social Housing continued
Lump sum contracts
This type of contract is becoming more commonplace. To avoid the onerous burden of administering a high volume, low value activity, the pricing mechanism 
is reduced to either a price per ticket or a price per property. Historically, many gas servicing and breakdown contracts have been procured on a lump sum basis. 
However, it is now becoming increasingly common within the reactive maintenance environment. There is typically an exclusions list for works that are not considered 
repairs and not deemed to fall within the lump sum price. It is normal for this excluded element of the works to be billed under an SOR arrangement.
For practical purposes, in the majority of lump sum contracts, revenue is recognised on a straight‑line basis over the contract term. There is not a material impact 
of seasonality in a client’s reactive maintenance spend (in terms of either volume or value of orders received). In terms of the lump sum element of the contract, 
the revenue is split evenly across the twelve monthly reporting periods. No element of revenue is either advanced or deferred.
There are a small number of lump sum contracts where recognising revenue on a straight‑line basis would be inappropriate. These are contracts where the phasing 
of the works over the contract term varies materially over the period of the contract and there is a mismatch between the delivery of works and the timing of invoicing 
against those works. For these contracts, the Group has historically reverted to recognising profit based on the proportion of costs incurred to date compared with 
the estimated total costs of the contract.
Domiciliary Care
Revenue is recognised when the actual care has been delivered. Revenue relating to care delivered and not invoiced is accrued and disclosed under trade and other receivables 
as amounts recoverable on contracts. Revenue attributable to any unused capacity under block contracts, where the Group is able to invoice for contracted services, not 
provided, is recognised when the recovery of income is considered virtually certain. There is minimal scope for judgement based on the Domiciliary Care process.
Mears Care has two primary rostering systems in use. Both of these systems are used widely by UK‑based domiciliary care providers. These systems allow for planning 
a rota for each staff member, together with the corresponding pay and bill rates for the particular service type, length of service and time of delivery. These results are 
very accurate in the calculation of billable time, income and corresponding employee pay for a particular contract, branch or region.
Accrued income is determined by applying an average historical billing rate to the number of unbilled hours delivered at the balance sheet date. Variances are reviewed 
in the following month once actual billing is known. The rostering systems allow unbilled hours to be calculated based on planned rostered and actual visits along with 
the corresponding pay and bill rates for the particular service type, length of service and time of delivery. These results are very accurate in the calculation of billable 
time, income and corresponding employee pay for a particular contract, branch or region.
Construction contracts
Revenue from the Mechanical & Electrical (M&E) sector reflects the contract activity during the year and is measured at the fair value of consideration received or 
receivable. When the outcome can be assessed reliably, contract revenue and associated costs are recognised as revenue and expenses respectively by reference to the 
stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date. The stage of completion of the contract at the balance sheet date is usually assessed by 
comparing the proportion of costs incurred to estimated total contract costs. Where this is not representative, contract milestones are used as a basis of assessing the 
stage of completion. Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract costs incurred 
that it is probable will be recoverable and contract costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. 
In the case of a fixed price contract, the outcome of a construction contract is deemed to be estimated reliably when all the following conditions are satisfied:
  it is probable that economic benefits associated with the contract will flow to the Group;
   both the contract costs to complete the contract and the stage of completion at the balance sheet date can be measured reliably; and
  the contract costs attributable to the contract can be clearly identified and measured reliably so that actual contract costs incurred can be compared with 
prior estimates.
The gross amount due from customers for contract work is presented as an asset for all contracts in progress for which costs incurred, plus recognised profits (less 
recognised losses), exceed progress billings. The gross amount due to customers for contract work is presented as a liability for all contracts in progress for which 
progress billings exceed costs incurred plus recognised profits (less losses).
Full provision is made for losses on all contracts in the year in which the loss is first foreseen. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 55
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Segment reporting
Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s operating segments based upon the format that the Group reports to its chief operating decision maker.
The Group considers that the chief operating decision makers are the Directors and Senior Executives of the business.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement where these are material and considered necessary to explain the underlying 
financial performance of the Group. They are either one off in nature or necessary elements of expenditure to derive future benefits for the Group which have not 
been capitalised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Costs of restructure are only considered to be exceptional where the restructure is transformational and the resultant cost is significant.
Acquisition costs are only considered to be exceptional where the acquisition is significant and the resultant cost is significant.
Employee benefits
Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes as follows:
i) Defined contribution pensions
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into an independent entity. The Group has no legal obligations to pay 
further contributions after payment of the fixed contribution.
The contributions recognised in respect of defined contribution plans are expensed as they fall due. Liabilities and assets may be recognised if underpayment 
or prepayment has occurred and are included in current liabilities or current assets as they are normally of a short‑term nature.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in an independently administered fund.
ii) Defined benefit pensions
The Group contributes to 13 principal defined benefit schemes which require contributions to be made to separately administered funds.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more 
factors such as age, years of service and salary. The legal obligations for any benefits from this kind of pension plan remain with the Group.
Scheme assets are measured at fair values. Scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and are discounted at appropriate 
high quality corporate bond rates that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related liability. Appropriate adjustments are made for past service 
costs. Past service cost is recognised as an expense on a straight‑line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. To the extent that benefits are 
already vested, the Group recognises past service cost immediately.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately through the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. The net surplus or deficit is presented with 
other net assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Any related deferred tax is shown with other deferred tax balances. A surplus is recognised only to the extent that 
it is recoverable by the Group.
The Group’s contributions to the scheme are paid in accordance with the rules of the schemes and the recommendations of the actuary.
In accordance with IFRIC 14, the asset that is recognised is restricted to the amount by which the IAS 19 service cost is expected, over the lifetime of the scheme, 
to exceed funding contributions payable in respect of accruing benefits.
Where the pension scheme has a contractual right to recover the costs of making good any deficit in the scheme from the Group’s client, the fair value of that asset 
has been recognised and disclosed. The right to recover costs is limited to exclude situations where the Group causes the scheme to incur service costs in excess of 
those which would have been incurred were the members employed within Local Government. The right to recover costs is also limited to situations where the cap 
on employer contributions to be suffered by the Group is not set so as to contribute to reducing the deficit in the scheme. 56 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Employee benefits continued
Share‑based employee remuneration
All share‑based payment arrangements that were granted after 7 November 2002 and had not vested before 1 January 2005 are recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements in accordance with IFRS 2. 
The Group operates equity‑settled share‑based remuneration plans for its employees. All employee services received in exchange for the grant of any share‑based 
remuneration are measured at their fair values. These are indirectly determined by reference to the fair value (excluding the effect of non‑market based vesting conditions) 
of the share options awarded. Their value is determined at the date of grant and is not subsequently remeasured unless the conditions on which the award was granted 
are modified. The fair value at the date of the grant is calculated using the Binomial and Monte Carlo option pricing models and the cost is recognised on a straight‑line 
basis over the vesting period. Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period. For SAYE plans, employees are required 
to contribute towards the plan. This non market‑based vesting condition is built into the estimate of expected forfeitures.
All share‑based remuneration is ultimately recognised as an expense in the Income Statement with a corresponding credit to share‑based payment reserve.
Upon exercise of share options, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs up to the nominal value of the shares issued are allocated 
to share capital, with any excess being recorded as share premium.
Modifications to share‑based payment arrangements are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2. The modifications made by the Group has not increased the fair 
value of the equity instruments granted and, therefore, there has been no change to the share‑based payment charge as a result.
Leases
In accordance with IAS 17 ‘Leases’, the economic ownership of a leased asset is transferred to the lessee if they bear substantially all the risks and rewards related 
to the ownership of the leased asset. The related asset is recognised at the time of inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present 
value of the lease payments plus incidental payments, if any, to be borne by the lessee. A corresponding amount is recognised as a finance leasing liability, irrespective 
of whether some of these lease payments are payable up‑front at the date of inception of the lease.
Subsequent accounting for assets held under finance lease agreements, i.e. depreciation methods and useful lives, correspond to those applied to comparable 
acquired assets. The corresponding finance leasing liability is reduced by lease payments less finance charges, which are expensed to finance costs. Finance charges 
represent a constant periodic rate of interest on the outstanding balance of the finance lease liability.
All other leases are treated as operating leases. Payment on operating lease agreements is recognised as an expense on a straight‑line basis over the lease term. 
Associated costs, such as maintenance and insurance, are expensed as incurred. 
The Group does not act as a lessor.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. The principal 
financial assets and liabilities of the Group are as follows:
Financial assets
When financial assets are recognised initially under IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, they are measured at fair value.
The Group’s financial assets are included in the Balance Sheet as current assets, except for maturities greater than twelve months after the balance sheet date, 
whereupon they are classified as non‑current assets. The Group’s financial assets comprise ‘Trade and other receivables’, ‘Amounts recoverable on contracts’ and 
‘Cash at bank and in hand’ in the Balance Sheet.
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables and amounts recoverable on contracts are non‑derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivables. Trade receivables and amounts 
recoverable on contracts, are initially recorded at amortised cost, being invoiced value less a provisional estimate for impairment. Trade receivables are subsequently 
remeasured at invoiced value, less an updated provision for impairment. Any change in their value through impairment or reversal of impairment is recognised in the 
Income Statement.
Provisions against trade receivables and amounts recoverable on contracts, are made when objective evidence is received that the Group will not be able to collect all 
amounts due to it in accordance with the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the write down is determined as the difference between the asset’s 
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows. Individually significant balances are reviewed separately for impairment based on the credit 
terms agreed with the customer. Other balances are grouped into credit risk categories and reviewed in aggregate.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and bank deposits available at less than 24 hours’ notice. Bank overdrafts are presented as current 
liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances. 
Following initial recognition, financial assets are subsequently remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Principal accounting policies – Group
continued Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 57
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial instruments continued
Financial liabilities
The Group’s financial liabilities are overdrafts, trade and other payables and finance leasing liabilities. They are included in the Balance Sheet line items ‘Short‑term 
borrowings and overdrafts’, ‘Non‑current financial liabilities’ and ‘Trade and other payables’.
All interest related charges are recognised as an expense in ‘Finance cost’ in the Income Statement with the exception of those which are directly attributable to the 
construction of a qualifying asset which are capitalised as part of that asset.
Bank and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of transaction costs. Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise 
cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance revenue and finance costs. Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are 
incurred with the exception of those which are directly attributable to the construction of a qualifying asset which are capitalised as part of that asset.
Finance lease liabilities are initially measured at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments 
as determined at the inception of the lease. The initial value is reduced by the capital element of lease repayments over the period of the lease.
Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their fair value.
Following initial recognition, financial liabilities are subsequently remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. The resulting gain 
or loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising from its financing activities. In accordance with its treasury policy 
the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The Group does not hedge account and recognises gains or losses on derivatives 
at fair value through the Income Statement.
Equity instruments
Share capital is determined using the nominal value of shares that have been issued. 
Share premium represents the difference between the nominal value of shares issued and the total consideration received.
Equity‑settled shared‑based employee remuneration is credited to the share‑based payment reserve until the related share options are exercised. Upon exercise the 
share‑based payment reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
The merger reserve relates to the difference between the nominal value and total consideration in respect of the acquisition of Careforce Group plc and Supporta plc, 
where the Company was entitled to the merger relief offered by the Companies Act.
Dividend distributions payable to equity shareholders are included in ‘Current financial liabilities’ when the dividends are approved in the General Meeting prior 
to the balance sheet date.
Use of judgements and estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and 
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenditure during the reported period. 
The estimates and associated judgements are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, 
the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and underlying judgements are reviewed on an on‑going basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate 
is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
In the preparation of these consolidated financial statements, estimates and judgements have been made by management concerning the selection of useful lives 
of property, plant and equipment, provisions necessary for certain liabilities, when to recognise revenue on long‑term contracts, actuarial judgements, discount rates 
used within impairment reviews, the underlying share price volatility for valuing equity‑based payments and other similar evaluations. Actual amounts could differ 
from those estimates.
Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised based on the stage of completion of job or contract activity. As described in the revenue section above, certain types of social housing pricing 
mechanisms and domiciliary care require minimal judgement, however social housing lump sum contracts and construction contracts do require judgements and 
estimates to be made to determine the stage of completion and the expected outcome for the individual contract. 58 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Use of judgements and estimates continued
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Impairment of goodwill  
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimate of the value‑in‑use of the CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated. The value‑in‑use calculation 
involves an estimate of the future cash flows of the CGUs and also the selection of appropriate discount rates to calculate present values. Future cash flows are 
estimated using the current one‑year budget forecast, extrapolated for a future growth rate. The estimated growth rates are based on past experience and knowledge 
of the individual sector’s markets. Changes in the estimated growth rate could result in variations to the carrying value of goodwill. The Directors consider that the 
estimates and judgements involved in determining the value in use of the Domiciliary Care CGU goodwill are the most significant and have therefore utilised the 
services of an external consultant to undertake this impairment review. The estimated cash flows and future growth rates are based on past experience and 
knowledge of the sector. The value in use is most sensitive to changes in the terminal growth rate, the explicit growth rate and the discount rate. The sensitivity 
to changes in these estimations is detailed in note 11.
Share‑based employee remuneration
The fair values of options granted have been determined using the Binomial and Monte Carlo option pricing models. Significant estimates involved in the calculation 
include share price volatility and the risk‑free interest rate. Details of these judgements are included in the share‑based employee remuneration note.
Defined benefit liabilities 
A number of key estimates have been made, which are given below, which are largely dependent on factors outside the control of the Group:
  expected return on plan assets;
  inflation r at es;
  mort ality;
  discount rate; and
  salary and pension increases.
Details of the particular estimates used are included in the pensions note.
Where the Group has a contractual right to recover the costs of making good any deficit in the scheme, the fair value of that asset has been recognised and disclosed. 
The right to recover costs is limited to exclude situations where the Group causes the scheme to incur service costs in excess of those which would have been incurred 
were the members employed within Local Government. The Directors have made judgements in respect of whether any of the deficit is as a result of such situations.
The right to recover costs is also limited to situations where the cap on employer contributions to be suffered by the Group is not set so as to contribute to reducing 
the deficit in the scheme. The Directors, in conjunction with the scheme actuaries, have made judgements in respect of the predicted future service cost and 
contributions to the scheme to reflect this in the fair value of the asset recognised.
Following the announcement in the June 2010 budget, the UK Government has announced they will use the Consumer Price Index (CPI) measure of inflation rather 
than the Retail Price Index (RPI) to determine statutory pension increases for public sector schemes. The move to CPI has been treated as a change in benefits 
recognised as a negative past service cost in the Income Statement.
In the absence of guidance on accounting for this change under IFRS, management has applied judgement and has referred to guidance on the change issued by the 
Urgent Issued T ask Force (UITF). The UITF issued advice on this matter which noted that the change should be recognised when the “necessary consultations have 
been concluded or employees’ valid expectations have been changed”. As the change was made by Government, and as the announcement made will affect 
the future statutory instruments which up‑rate pensions, no other action, such as consultation, is required in respect of the change. HM Treasury has announced that 
the 2011 pension increase will be 3.1% in line with the September to September CPI increase. The publicity surrounding the change was extensive and the change 
is highlighted in the Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) website and in the newest scheme booklets available to members. Consequently, we consider, in line 
with our actuarial advice, that it is appropriate to recognise the change in the current period.
The UITF issued further guidance on whether to recognise the change in scheme liabilities as a change in benefit giving rise to a negative past service cost or as a change 
in estimated pension increase rate giving rise to an actuarial gain. The Directors, in conjunction with the scheme actuaries, consider that there was a constructive 
obligation to pay benefits based on RPI and have therefore recognised a negative past service cost.
New standards and interpretations not yet applied
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ (effective 1 January 2013) specifies how an entity should classify and measure financial assets, including some hybrid contracts. 
It requires all financial assets to be classified on the basis of the entity’s business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics 
of the financial asset. It requires financial assets to be initially measured at fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, particular 
transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost or fair value. The Group will apply IFRS 9 for the Group’s 31 December 2013 financial statements.
Principal accounting policies – Group
continued Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 59
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
 2010  2009
       Note £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000
Sales revenue      1  523,935  470,146
Cost of sales        (373,402)  (336,848)
Gross profit        150,533  133,298
Other administrative expenses       (119,213)  (108,545)
Operating result before amortisation of acquisition intangibles and exceptional items    31,320  24,753
Exceptional items      7 (2,450)  —
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles      12 (10,119)  (4,980)
Total administrative costs        (131,782)  (113,525)
Operating profit        18,751  19,773
Finance income      4  63  190
Finance costs      4  (2,462)  (1,584)
Profit for the year before tax      2  16,352  18,379
Tax expense      8  (1,588)  (4,423)
Net profit for the year        14,764  13,956
Earnings per share       
Basic       10  17.70p  18.81p
Diluted       10  16.57p  17.94p
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2010 60 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
          2010 2009 
         Note £’000 £’000
Net result for the year         14,764 13,956
Other comprehensive income/(expense):   
– actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme        26 (3,651) (3,634)
– increase in deferred tax asset in respect of defined benefit pension schemes      21 1,022 919
Other comprehensive expense for the year         (2,629) (2,715)
Total comprehensive income for the year         12,135 11,241
Attributable to:   
– equity holders of the parent         12,135 11,241
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2010 Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 61
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
          2010 2009 
         Note £’000 £’000
Assets   
Non‑current   
Goodwill        11 97,405 52,393
Intangible assets        12 27,136 17,072
Property, plant and equipment        13 12,113 12,142
Deferred tax asset        21 8,056 6,098
Trade and other receivables        17 1,929 2,119
          146,639 89,824
Current    
Inventories        15 12,147 17,349
Trade and other receivables        17 109,765 82,933
Cash at bank and in hand         21,757 23,511
          143,669 123,793
Total assets         290,308 213,617
Equity   
Equity attributable to the shareholders of Mears Group PLC   
Called up share capital        22 848 744
Share premium account         33,243 32,505
Share‑based payment reserve         2,905 2,649
Merger reserve         38,243 11,548
Retained earnings         66,315 58,482
Total equity         141,554 105,928
Liabilities   
Non‑current   
Pension and other employee benefits        26 7,693 3,205
Deferred tax liabilities        21 6,983 4,646
Other liabilities        19 959 1,230
          15,635 9,081
Current   
Short‑term borrowings and overdrafts         34,000 17,000
Trade and other payables        18 97,879 77,607
Current tax liabilities         1,240 4,001
Current liabilities         133,119 98,608
Total liabilities         148,754 107,689
Total equity and liabilities         290,308 213,617
The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors and were signed on its behalf on 15 April 2011.
R Holt A C M Smith
Director Director
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December 2010
Company number: 3232863  62 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
          2010 2009 
         Note £’000 £’000
Operating activities   
Result for the year before tax         16,352 18,379
Adjustments        23 17,799 9,368
Change in inventories         5,588 (6,738)
Change in trade and other receivables         (13,835) 8,097
Change in trade and other payables         431 (3,712)
Cash flow from operating activities before taxation         26,335 25,394
Taxes paid         (6,599) (4,814)
Net cash inflow from operating activities         19,736 20,580
Investing activities   
Additions to property, plant and equipment         (2,935) (3,732)
Additions to other intangible assets         (920) (796)
Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment        243 82
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking, net of cash         (28,122) (11,056)
Disposal of business activities, net of cash         986 —
Interest received         2 190
Net cash outflow from investing activities         (30,746) (15,312)
Financing activities   
Proceeds from share issue         743 569
Discharge of finance lease liability         (557) (820)
Interest paid         (2,851) (1,390)
Dividends paid         (5,079) (3,710)
Net cash outflow from financing activities         (7,744) (5,351)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year         6,511 6,594
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents         (18,754) (83)
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year         (12,243) 6,511
Cash and cash equivalents is comprised as follows:   
– cash at bank and in hand         21,757 23,511
– short‑term borrowings and overdrafts         (34,000) (17,000)
Cash and cash equivalents         (12,243) 6,511
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2010 Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 63
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
       Share Share‑based     
      Share  premium payment Merger Retained Total  
      capital  account  reserve reserve  earnings equity 
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2009     740 31,940 3,235 11,548 48,241 95,704
Net profit for the year     — — — — 13,956 13,956
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
– deferred tax on pension obligation     — — — — 919 919
– actuarial loss on pension and other employee benefits     — — — — (3,634) (3,634)
Total comprehensive income for the year     — — — — 11,241 11,241
Deferred tax on share‑based payments     — — — — 1,624 1,624
Issue of shares     4 565 — — — 569
Share option charges     — — 500 — — 500
Exercise of share options     — — (1,086) — 1,086 —
Dividends     — — — — (3,710) (3,710)
At 1 January 2010     744 32,505 2,649 11,548 58,482 105,928
Net profit for the year     — — — — 14,764 14,764
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
– deferred tax on pension obligation     — — — — 1,022 1,022
– actuarial loss on pension and other employee benefits     — — — — (3,651) (3,651)
Total comprehensive income for the year     — — — — 12,135 12,135
Deferred tax on share‑based payments     — — — — 283 283
Issue of shares     104 738 — 26,695 — 27,537
Share option charges     — — 750 — — 750
Exercise of share options     — — (494) — 494 —
Dividends     — — — — (5,079) (5,079)
At 31 December 2010     848 33,243 2,905 38,243 66,315 141,554
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2010 64 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Notes to the financial statements – Group
1. Segment reporting
Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s operating segments. Segments are determined by reference to the internal reports reviewed by the Board.
The Group operated three operating segments during the year:
  Social Housing – services within this sector comprise a full repairs and maintenance service to Local Authorities and other Registered Social Housing Landlords;
  Domiciliary Care – services within this sector comprise personal care services to people in their own homes; and
  Other – services within this sector comprise provision of design and build M&E services.
All of the Group’s activities are carried out within the United Kingdom and the Group’s principal reporting to its chief operating decision maker is not segmented 
by geography.
The principal measures utilised by the chief operating decision maker to review the performance of the business are operating result pre amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles and share‑based payment.
 2010  2009
        Social Domiciliary   Social Domiciliary   
        Housing Care Other Total Housing Care Other Total 
Business segments      £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000
Revenue       379,400 100,358 44,177 523,935 355,260 60,050 54,836 470,146
Operating result pre amortisation of acquisition intangibles,  
exceptional items and share‑based payment   22,896 7,532 1,642 32,070 21,252 3,151 850 25,253
Operating margin pre amortisation of acquisition intangibles,  
exceptional items and share‑based payment    6.0% 7.5% 3.7% 6.1% 6.0% 5.2% 1.6% 5.4%
Share‑based payment     (600) (50) (100) (750) (400) (25) (75) (500)
Operating result pre amortisation of acquisition intangibles  
and exceptional items     22,296 7,482 1,542 31,320 20,852 3,126 775 24,753
All revenue and all non‑current assets arise within the United Kingdom. All of the revenue reported is external to the Group. No revenue in respect of a single customer 
comprises more than 10% of the total revenue reported.
Reconciliation to the Consolidated Income Statement:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Operating result pre amortisation of acquisition intangibles and exceptional items       31,320 24,753
Exceptional items            (2,450) —
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles          (10,119) (4,980)
Finance costs, net             (2,399) (1,394)
Tax expense            (1,588) (4,423)
Net profit for the year           14,764 13,956
In addition the following disclosures have been provided in respect of segmental analysis required by IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’:
 2010  2009
        Social Domiciliary   Social Domiciliary   
        Housing Care Other Total Housing Care Other Total 
Business segments      £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000
Segment assets       209,126 60,178 21,004 290,308 148,562 42,561 22,494 213,617
Segment liabilities      (100,979) (38,029) (9,746) (148,754) (61,557) (32,557) (13,575) (107,689)
Property, plant and equipment acquired    2,314 510 111 2,935 1,907 1,651 175 3,733
Depreciation       1,963 1,013 206 3,182 1,763 245 138 2,146 Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 65
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
2. Profit for the year before tax
Profit for the year before tax is stated after:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Share‑based payments           750 500
Depreciation            3,182 2,146
Amortisation            10,511 5,214
Hire of plant and machinery           2,514 3,488
Other operating lease rentals           14,503 13,364
3. Auditor’s remuneration
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Fees payable to the auditor for the audit of the Group’s financial statements       61 70
Other fees payable to the auditor in respect of:  
– auditing of accounts of subsidiary undertakings pursuant to legislation       107 98
– taxation compliance fees           38 35
– taxation advice fees           30 25
Total auditor’s remuneration           236 228
4. Finance income and finance costs
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Interest charge on overdrafts and short‑term loans         (920) (896)
Interest charge on interest rate swap          (913) (368)
Finance charges in respect of finance leases          (216) (137)
Interest charge on defined benefit obligation          (373) (143)
Unwinding of discounting in deferred consideration         (40) (40)
Finance costs            (2,462) (1,584)
Interest income resulting from short‑term bank deposits         2 74
Interest income resulting from defined benefit obligation         61 116
Finance income            63 190
Net finance charge            (2,399) (1,394)
5. Employees
Staff costs during the year were as follows:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries            189,362 151,007
Social security costs            15,721 12,691
Other pension costs            63 2,013
              205,146 165,711
The average number of employees of the Group during the year was:
              2010 2009 
              Number Number
Site workers            2,508 2,337
Carers             6,090 4,092
Office and management           2,203 1,741
Total             10,801 8,170 66 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Notes to the financial statements – Group
continued
5. Employees continued
Remuneration in respect of Directors was as follows:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Emoluments            1,300 1,700
Pension contributions to personal pension schemes         199 193
              1,499 1,893
The amounts set out above include remuneration in respect of the highest paid Director as follows:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Emoluments             465 960
Pension contributions to personal pension schemes         135 135
During the year contributions were paid to personal pension schemes for four Directors (2009: four).
During the year no Directors (2009: none) exercised share options.
6. Share‑based employee remuneration
As at 31 December 2010 the Group maintained six share‑based payment schemes for employee remuneration.
The Mears Group PLC Long‑term Incentive Plan 2008 (LTIP)
The LTIP was introduced in October 2008 following shareholder approval. The award of options is offered to a small number of key senior management. The principal 
terms of the LTIP are detailed below:
Principal terms of LTIP 
Number of options Maximum award limit under the plan will be 200% of salary per annum.
Exercise price Nil
Performance period 3 years
Performance conditions There are two performance targets attaching to the LTIP Award.
   50% of the LTIP Award will relate to an EPS growth target. The other 50% of the LTIP Award relates 
to the Company’s TSR against the return of the FTSE All Share Support Services Sector.
Expiry conditions Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options have vested.
Performance conditions of LTIP    
 EPS growth target  TSR target
Performance levels Level of vesting Performance levels Level of vesting
10.0% 10% Below index return 0%
12.5% 30% Equal to index  30%
17.5% 100% 10% outperformance of the index per annum 100%
The Mears Group PLC Long‑term Incentive Plan 2009 (LTIP)
The LTIP was introduced in October 2008 following shareholder approval. The award of options is offered to a small number of key senior management. The principal 
terms of the LTIP are detailed below:
Principal terms of LTIP 
Number of options Maximum award limit under the plan will be 200% of salary per annum.
Exercise price Nil
Performance period 3 years
Performance conditions There are two performance targets attaching to the LTIP Award.
   75% of the LTIP Award will relate to an EPS growth target. The other 25% of the LTIP Award relates 
to the Company’s TSR against the return of the FTSE All Share Support Services Sector.
Expiry conditions Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the  options have vested. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 67
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
6. Share‑based employee remuneration continued
The Mears Group PLC Long‑term Incentive Plan 2009 (LTIP) continued
Performance conditions of LTIP    
 EPS growth target  TSR target
Performance levels Level of vesting Performance levels Level of vesting
10.0% 10% Below index return 0%
12.5% 30% Equal to index  30%
17.5% 100% 10% outperformance of the index per annum 100%
The Mears Group PLC Long‑term Incentive Plan 2010 (LTIP)
The LTIP was introduced in October 2008 following shareholder approval. The award of options is offered to a small number of key senior management. The principal 
terms of the LTIP are detailed below:
Principal terms of LTIP 
Number of options Maximum award limit under the plan will be 200% of salary per annum.
Exercise price Nil
Performance period 3 years
Performance conditions There are two performance targets attaching to the LTIP Award.
   75% of the LTIP Award will relate to an EPS growth target. The other 25% of the LTIP Award relates 
to the Company’s TSR against the return of the FTSE All Share Support Services Sector.
Expiry conditions Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options have vested.
Performance conditions of LTIP    
 EPS growth target  TSR target
Performance levels Level of vesting Performance levels Level of vesting
8.0% 10% Below index return 0%
12.5% 30% Equal to index  30%
17.5% 100% 10% outperformance of the index per annum 100%
Approved share option plan
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date of grant. The vesting 
period is three years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee 
leaves the Mears Group before the options vest.
Enterprise management incentive plan
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date of grant. The vesting 
period is three years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee 
leaves the Mears Group before the options vest.
Unapproved share option plan
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date of grant. The vesting 
period is three years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee 
leaves the Mears Group before the options vest. With the introduction of the LTIP in 2008, the Remuneration Committee has decided that no further awards will 
be made under the unapproved share option plan.
In October 2008, shareholders approved a proposal to cancel outstanding unapproved market‑priced options (subject to approval by option holders) and replace 
them with a lower number of nil‑cost options with the same expected value and terms and conditions. The nil‑cost options will only be able to be exercised if the share 
price is greater than the original exercise price of the market‑priced options. This significantly reduced the current levels of dilution and ensures that the Group will 
be able to manage the overall levels of dilution within the accepted limits endorsed by the Association of British Insurers and which are recognised by institutional 
investors as best practice. 68 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Notes to the financial statements – Group
continued
6. Share‑based employee remuneration continued
Save As You Earn (SAYE) scheme
Options are available to all employees. Options are granted for a period of either three or five years. Options are exercisable at a price based on the quoted market 
price of the Company’s shares at the time of invitation, discounted by up to 20%. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Mears Group before the options 
vest which results in an acceleration of the share‑based payment charge.
Special Incentive Plan 2007 (SIP)
The SIP was introduced in 2007 to reward the Chief Executive Officer with premium priced options linked to long‑term performance. The terms and conditions were 
subsequently amended on 3 July 2009. The principal terms of the SIP and performance conditions are detailed below:
Principal terms of SIP 
Number of options 2,500,000
Exercise price Nil
Performance conditions  Average real EPS growth attained over three financial years with the base period for calculating EPS being 31 December 2006. 
EPS was calculated before amortisation and IFRS 2 costs. The performance was measured at the end of the three‑year period. 
The performance conditions relating to this award were satisfied in full.
  
Vesting conditions  The award vested in full in November 2010, 60% became exercisable in November 2010, 20% will become exercisable in 
November 2011 and the remaining 20% will become exercisable in November 2012.
Performance conditions of SIP 
Performance levels Level of vesting
5% + RPI per annum 10%
10% + RPI per annum 50%
15% + RPI per annum 100%
Details of the share options outstanding (excluding those issued under the SIP) are as follows:
 2010  2009
             Weighted   Weighted  
             average  average 
             exercise  exercise 
            Number  price Number price 
            ‘000 p ‘000 p
Outstanding at 1 January         7,142 126 6,850 131
Granted            875 — 995 —
Forfeited           (177) 148 (313) 163
Exercised           (338) 121 (390) 146
Outstanding at 31 December          7,502 75 7,142 126
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 121p. The options outstanding at 31 December 2010, 
excluding the SIP Award, were exercisable at prices between 1p and 300p and had a weighted average remaining contractual life of five years and eleven months. 
The fair values of options granted were determined using the Binomial and Monte Carlo option pricing models. Significant inputs into the calculation include the 
market price at the date of grant and exercise prices. Furthermore, the calculation takes into account the future dividend yield, the share price volatility rate and the 
risk‑free interest rate.  Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 69
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
6. Share‑based employee remuneration continued
The underlying expected share price volatility was determined by reference to historical data. The Company expects the volatility of its share price to reduce as it 
matures. The risk‑free interest rate was determined by the implied yield available on a zero‑coupon Government bond at the date of grant. Adjustments are made 
to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period due to failure to satisfy service conditions. In the case of the SAYE scheme the expected forfeitures 
takes account of the requirement to save throughout the life of the scheme. The inputs into the option pricing model are as follows:
              2010 2009
Share price (p)            275 275
Exercise price (p)            1–300 1–300
Expected volatility (%)           20 20
Expected life (years)            3–5 3–5
Risk‑free rate (%)            1.97 1.97
177,000 options lapsed during the year. The market price at 31 December 2010 was 303p and the range during 2010 was 227p to 315.5p.
At 31 December 2010, 2.9m options had vested and were still exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of 103p.
All share‑based employee remuneration will be settled in equity. The Group has no legal obligation to repurchase or settle the options.
The Group recognises the following expenses related to share‑based payments:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
LTIP             101 11
Approved share option plan           35 52
Unapproved share option plan           108 181
SAYE             20 18
SIP             486 238
              750 500
In total, £0.75m of employee remuneration expense has been included in the Consolidated Income Statement for 2010 (2009: £0.5m), which gave rise to additional 
share‑based payment reserves. No liabilities were recognised due to share‑based payment transactions.
7. Exceptional items
Exceptional items have arisen as a result of acquisition and integration costs in the period. 
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Costs of acquisition            1,289 —
Costs of integration            1,161 —
Exceptional items            2,450 —
The costs of acquisition relate to the acquisition of Supporta plc and Jackson Lloyd Limited in the period.
The costs of integration relate to the integration of the Careforce and Supporta Care businesses and re‑branding as Mears Care.  70 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
8. Tax expense
T ax recognised in the Income Statement:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
United Kingdom Corporation T ax effective rate 14.3% (2009: 25.7%)       3,779 6,001
Adjustment in respect of previous periods          (159) (114)
Total current tax recognised in Income Statement         3,620 5,887
Deferred taxation charge:  
– on defined benefit pension obligations          1,150 157
– on share‑based payments           (418) (227)
– on accelerated capital allowances          69 —
– on amortisation of acquisition intangibles          (2,833) (1,394)
Total deferred taxation recognised in Income Statement         (2,032) (1,464)
Total tax expense recognised in Income Statement         1,588 4,423
Results for the year before tax           16,352 18,379
Result for the year multiplied by standard rate of Corporation T ax in the United Kingdom of 28% (2009: 28%)    4,579 5,146
Effect of:  
– expenses not deductible for tax purposes          350 73
– income not subject to tax           (1,050) —
– capital allowances in excess of depreciation          155 (140)
– tax relief on exercise of share options          (362) (290)
– tax rate difference            (9) (12)
– utilisation of tax losses           (23) (240)
– tax relief on purchased goodwill amortisation         (1,893) —
– adjustment in respect of prior periods          (159) (114)
Actual tax expense, net           1,588 4,423
Deferred tax recognised directly in equity  
Deferred taxation charge:  
– on defined benefit pension obligations          (1,022) (919)
– on share‑based payments           (283) (1,624)
Total deferred taxation recognised in equity          (1,305) (2,543)
Total tax  
Total current tax            3,620 5,887
Total deferred tax            (3,337) (4,007)
9. Dividends
The following dividends were paid on ordinary shares in the year:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Final 2009 dividend of 4.1p (2009: final 2008 dividend of 3.40p) per share       3,469 2,522
Interim 2010 dividend of 1.9p (2009: interim 2009 dividend of 1.60p) per share        1,610 1,188
              5,079 3,710
The proposed final 2010 dividend of 4.85p per share has not been included within the consolidated financial statements as no obligation existed at 31 December 2010.
Notes to the financial statements – Group
continued Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 71
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
10. Earnings per share
 Basic  Diluted
            2010 2009 2010 2009 
            p p p p
Earnings per share          17.70 18.81 16.57 17.94
Effect of amortisation of acquisition intangibles       12.13 6.71 11.36 6.40
Effect of full tax adjustment         (6.98) (2.85) (6.54) (2.73)
Effect of exceptional items (including tax impact)       2.11 — 1.99 —
Normalised earnings per share         24.96 22.67 23.38 21.61
A normalised EPS is disclosed in order to show performance undistorted by amortisation of intangibles. The Group defines normalised earnings as excluding the 
amortisation of acquisition intangibles, exceptional items and adjusted to reflect a full tax charge of 28%. The profit attributable to shareholders before and after 
adjustments for both basic and diluted EPS is:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Profit attributable to shareholders:          14,764 13,956
– amortisation of acquisition intangibles          10,119 4,980
– full tax adjustment            (5,824) (2,118)
– exceptional items (including tax impact)          1,764 —
Normalised earnings            20,823 16,818
The calculation of EPS is based on a weighted average of ordinary shares in issue during the year. The diluted EPS is based on a weighted average of ordinary shares 
calculated in accordance with IAS 33 ‘Earnings per Share’, which assumes that all dilutive options will be exercised. The additional normalised basic and diluted EPS 
use the same weighted average number of shares as the basic and diluted EPS.
              2010 2009 
              Millions Millions
Weighted average number of shares in issue:          83.42 74.20
– dilutive effect of share options           5.66 3.62
Weighted average number of shares for calculating diluted earnings per share       89.08 77.82
11. Goodwill
             Goodwill    
             arising on  Purchased  
             consolidation goodwill Total 
             £’000 £’000 £’000
Gross carrying amount   
At 1 January 2009           49,852 406 50,258
Additions           2,879 — 2,879
Revision            (744) — (744)
At 1 January 2010           51,987 406 52,393
Additions           44,378 — 44,378
Revision            996 — 996
Disposals            (362)  (362)
At 31 December 2010          96,999 406 97,405
Accumulated impairment losses   
At 1 January 2009, at 1 January 2010 and at 31 December 2010       — — —
Carrying amount    
At 31 December 2010          96,999 406 97,405
At 31 December 2009          51,987 406 52,393
At 31 December 2008          49,852 406 50,258 72 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Notes to the financial statements – Group
continued
11. Goodwill continued
Goodwill on consolidation arises on the excess of cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired on purchase of a Company.
Purchased goodwill arises on the excess of cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired on the purchase of the trade and assets of a business.
Additions to goodwill arising on consolidation are detailed within note 24.
Revisions totalling £0.05m relate to reductions in contingent consideration payable in respect of prior year acquisitions and revisions totalling £0.95m relate 
to reductions to the estimated fair value of assets acquired. The reduction in fair value of assets acquired relates to costs not accrued at the time of the acquisition. 
The revisions are not considered sufficiently material to warrant the restatement of the prior year provisional balances.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are any indications that goodwill may be impaired. Goodwill 
acquired in a business combination is allocated to groups of CGUs according to the level at which management monitors that goodwill. Goodwill is carried at cost less 
accumulated impairment losses.
The carrying value of goodwill is primarily comprised of the following CGUs:
             Goodwill    
             arising on  Purchased  
             consolidation goodwill Total 
             £’000 £’000 £’000
Social Housing           18,509 406 18,915
Domiciliary Care           74,159 — 74,159
M&E            4,331 — 4,331
             96,999 406 97,405
An asset is impaired if its carrying value exceeds the unit’s recoverable amount which is based upon value‑in‑use. At 31 December 2010 impairment reviews were 
performed by comparing the carrying value of the CGU with the value‑in‑use of the CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated. The value‑in‑use is calculated based 
upon the cash flow projections of the latest one‑year budget forecast extrapolated for nine years by a growth rate applicable to each unit and an appropriate terminal 
value based on a perpetuity.
The rates used were as follows:
             Growth Growth Terminal 
           Corporation  Discount rates rates growth 
           Tax rate  (years 1–5)  (years 6–10) rate
Social Housing         28% 9.3% 2.5%–5.0% 2.5% 2.5%
Domiciliary Care         28% 10.9% 10% 2.5% 2.5%
The estimated growth rates are based on past experience and knowledge of the individual sector’s markets.
Social Housing
The contracts awarded within the Social Housing area are significant in size and the contract terms are typically three to ten years in duration. The record of Mears in retaining 
contracts on expiry is typically over 90%. The impairment reviews have always taken a particularly prudent stance and incorporated a minimal growth assumption.
Budgeted operating profits during the budget period are estimated by reference to the average operating margins achieved in the period immediately before the start 
of the budget period. There is no inclusion for any anticipated efficiency improvements.
The Directors consider that reasonably possible changes in these key assumptions would not cause a unit’s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount. 
The Directors consider that the Social Housing value‑in‑use calculation is most sensitive to changes in the growth rate. Impairment would result only if negative 
growth of 2.5% was incorporated into the value‑in‑use calculation. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 73
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
11. Goodwill continued
Domiciliary Care
The domiciliary care market is becoming increasingly sophisticated and the expectation of management is for significant consolidation within the sector, offering 
an opportunity to achieve significant organic growth. Each year, Local Authorities spend in excess of £2 billion on domiciliary care. The Directors believe that future 
growth is underpinned by a number of factors including the increasingly ageing population in the United Kingdom and the increased desire of the elderly to lead 
independent lives. Local Authorities’ expenditure on homecare for the elderly has grown rapidly over recent years, averaging 10% per year since 2003. The amount 
outsourced to independent providers has also risen sharply from 59% in 2001 to in excess of 81% today. It is the Directors’ belief that this trend will continue.
The market is highly fragmented with an estimated 4,900 independent providers of homecare services. The increasing regulation in this sector is also expected 
by the Directors to continue, leading to increased consolidation. Furthermore, the Directors believe that the domiciliary care sector will evolve towards a partnership 
approach similar to that of the Social Housing sector and Mears has already begun to see examples of such an approach with its customers. The Directors believe 
that stakeholders at all levels could benefit from this long‑term investment approach.
The Directors believe that there are a number of combined developments in Government thinking that are likely to improve the prospects for business in the 
domiciliary care sector. Most notably these include the Lifetime Homes, Lifetime Neighbourhoods paper in 2008 and the delivery of the Social Care Transformation 
Programme as signalled in the concordat Putting People First. These build on the consensus across the social care sector to put together a social care system based 
on the provision of good quality information, advice and advocacy.
The impairment reviews have incorporated a growth assumption of 10% which the Directors believe to be realistic given the tremendous growth opportunities within 
Domiciliary Care. 
Budgeted operating profits during the budget period are estimated by reference to the average operating margins achieved in the period immediately before the start 
of the budget period. There is no inclusion for any anticipated efficiency improvements.
The Directors consider that the Domiciliary Care value‑in‑use is most sensitive to changes in the terminal growth rate. The sensitivity of the calculated value‑in‑use to changes 
in explicit growth rate, terminal growth rate and discount rate is shown in the table below. The shaded values indicate situations which would result in impairment.
The table below shows the sensitivity to simultaneous changes in the discount rate and the long‑term growth rate.
Discount rate
 
 T erminal growth rate
   1.50%  2.00%  2.50%  3.00%  3.50%
 8.90% 39,346 46,417 54,592 64,154 75,485
 9.40% 31,150 37,210 44,149 52,171 61,553
 9.90% 23,937 29,176 35,123 41,932 49,805
 10.40% 17,541 22,105 27,247 33,084 39,766
 10.90% 11,831 15,834 20,314 25,361 31,090
 11.40% 6,703 10,235 14,165 18,563 23,517
 11.90% 2,073 5,207 8,676 12,534 16,851
 12.40% (2,128) 668 3,745 7,150 10,938
 12.90% (5,956) (3,452) (707) 2,315 5,658
The table below shows sensitivity to simultaneous changes in the explicit growth rate (2011 – 2015) and the long‑term growth rate.
Annual growth rate
 
Annual growth rate
 
 T erminal growth rate
   1.50%  2.00%  2.50%  3.00%  3.50%
 6.00% (514) 2,873 6,664 10,935 15,783
 7.00% 2,445 5,980 9,935 14,392 19,450
 8.00% 5,488 9,174 13,300 17,947 23,223
 9.00% 8,616 12,459 16,759 21,603 27,102
 10.00% 11,831 15,834 20,314 25,361 31,090
 11.00% 15,133 19,302 23,967 29,223 35,189
 12.00% 18,526 22,865 27,720 33,191 39,400
 13.00% 22,010 26,524 31,576 37,267 43,727
 14.00% 25,587 30,281 35,534 41,452 48,170 74 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Notes to the financial statements – Group
continued
12. Other intangible assets
 Acquisition intangibles  Other intangibles
           Total   Total 
         Client Order acquisition Development Intellectual other Total 
         relationships book intangibles expenditure property intangibles intangibles 
         £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Gross carrying amount          
At 1 January 2009       9,902 5,662 15,564 948 224 1,172 16,736
Acquired on acquisition      8,769 1,515 10,284 — — — 10,284
Additions       — — — 788 — 788 788
At 1 January 2010       18,671 7,177 25,848 1,736 224 1,960 27,808
Acquired on acquisition      13,466 6,453 19,919 — — — 19,919
Additions       — — — 920 — 920 920
Disposals        (405) (81) (486) — — — (486)
At 31 December 2010      31,732 13,549 45,281 2,656 224 2,880 48,161
Accumulated amortisation          
At 1 January 2009       3,453 1,902 5,355 167 — 167 5,522
Amortisation charge for period      3,320 1,660 4,980 189 45 234 5,214
At 1 January 2010       6,773 3,562 10,335 356 45 401 10,736
Amortisation charge for period      6,891 3,228 10,119 347 45 392 10,511
Disposals        (184) (38) (222) — — — (222)
At 31 December 2010      13,480 6,752 20,232 703 90 793 21,025
Carrying amount          
At 31 December 2010      18,252 6,797 25,049 1,953 134 2,087 27,136
At 31 December 2009      11,898 3,615 15,513 1,380 179 1,559 17,072
At 31 December 2008      6,449 3,760 10,209 781 224 1,005 11,214
Development expenditure relates to the development of the Group’s Social Housing job management system. This is amortised over its useful economic life of 4.0 years. 
The weighted average remaining economic life of the asset is 4.1 years.
Intellectual property is amortised over its useful economic life of 5.0 years. The weighted average remaining economic life is 3.0 years.
Amortisation of development expenditure is included within other administrative expenses. Amortisation of acquisition intangibles is disclosed individually.
The value placed on the order book is based upon the cash flow projections over the contracts in place when a business is acquired. Due to uncertainties with trying 
to forecast revenues beyond the contract term, the Directors have taken a measure of prudence and value contracts over the contractual term only. The value 
of the order book is amortised over its remaining life.
The value placed on the customer relationships are based upon the non‑contractual expected cash inflows. These cash flow projections assume a customer attrition 
rate of 5% based upon three‑year historic trends.
Additions to intangible assets arising on consolidation are detailed within note 24. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 75
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
13. Property, plant and equipment
              Fixtures,    
            Leasehold Plant and fittings and Motor  
           improvements  machinery  equipment  vehicles Total 
           £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Gross carrying amount      
At 1 January 2009         4,588 2,485 11,877 949 19,899
Additions         540 112 3,062 19 3,733
Acquired on acquisition        226 4 793 3,355 4,378
Disposals          — (183) (461) (653) (1,297)
At 1 January 2010         5,354 2,418 15,271 3,670 26,713
Additions         1,021 163 1,744 7 2,935
Acquired on acquisition        1,061 754 4,152 46 6,013
Disposals          (66) (483) (553) (1,005) (2,107)
Disposal of subsidiary undertaking       — — (914) (29) (943)
At 31 December 2010        7,370 2,852 19,700 2,689 32,611
Depreciation      
At 1 January 2009         1,258 1,827 6,552 745 10,382
Provided in the year         546 103 1,317 180 2,146
Acquired on acquisition        98 1 491 2,554 3,144
Eliminated on disposals        — (161) (409) (531) (1,101)
At 1 January 2010         1,902 1,770 7,951 2,948 14,571
Provided in the year         700 115 2,227 140 3,182
Acquired on acquisition        1,016 733 3,210 46 5,005
Eliminated on disposals        (10) (469) (472) (819) (1,770)
Eliminated on disposals of subsidiary undertaking      — — (461) (29) (490)
At 31 December 2010        3,608 2,149 12,455 2,286 20,498
Carrying amount      
At 31 December 2010        3,762 703 7,245 403 12,113
At 31 December 2009        3,452 648 7,320 722 12,142
At 31 December 2008        3,330 658 5,325 204 9,517
The figures stated above include assets held under finance leases as follows:
               Plant and  
               machinery 
               £’000
Net book amount 
At 31 December 2010            —
At 31 December 2009            1,191
Depreciation provided in the year           1,191 76 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Notes to the financial statements – Group
continued
14. Investments
The principal undertakings within the Group at 31 December 2010 are shown below:
 Proportion held Nature of business
Mears Limited  100% Provision of maintenance services
Haydon Mechanical & Electrical Limited 100% Provision of M&E services
Scion Group Limited 100% Provision of M&E services and grounds maintenance
Laidlaw Scott Limited 100% Provision of maintenance services
3c Asset Management Limited 100% Provision of maintenance services
Careforce Group plc 100% Provision of domiciliary care
Mears Care Limited 100% Provision of domiciliary care
Mears Care (Northern Ireland) Limited 100% Provision of domiciliary care
Mears Care (Scotland) Limited 100% Provision of domiciliary care
T erraquest Solutions Limited 100% Provision of professional services
Mears Insurance Captive Limited 99.99% Provision of insurance services
All material subsidiary undertakings prepare accounts to 31 December. All material subsidiary undertakings are registered in England and Wales with the exception of 
Mears Insurance Captive Limited which is registered in Guernsey, Mears Care (Northern Ireland) which is registered in Northern Ireland and Mears Care (Scotland) and 
Laidlaw Scott Limited which are registered in Scotland.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings is available from the Company Secretary upon request.
15. Inventories 
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Materials and consumables           1,778 1,417
Work in progress            10,369 15,932
              12,147 17,349
The Group consumed inventories totalling £303.3m during the year (2009: £297.8m). No items are being carried at fair value less costs to sell (2009: £nil).
16. Construction contracts
Revenue of £51.4m (2009: £54.8m) relating to construction contracts has been included in the Consolidated Income Statement.
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Contract costs incurred           38,091 41,527
Recognised gross profits           13,344 13,309
Recognised gross losses           — —
              51,435 54,836
Balances outstanding comprise:   
– retentions            3,976 4,003
– due from customers for construction contract work         1,690 3,015
– due to customers for construction contract work         (72) (5,566)
Retentions will be payable upon acceptance of the work performed by the customer. Retentions are included in ‘Trade receivables’. The amounts due to customers for 
construction work are included in ‘Trade and other payables’. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 77
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
17. Trade and other receivables
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Current assets:  
– trade receivables            53,543 46,048
– amounts recoverable on construction contracts         1,690 3,015
– amounts recoverable on non‑construction contracts         50,235 30,704
– prepayments and accrued income          4,297 3,166
              109,765 82,933
Non‑current assets:  
– trade receivables            1,929 2,119
Total trade and other receivables           111,694 85,052
Trade receivables are normally due within 30 to 60 days and do not bear any effective interest rate. All trade receivables are subject to credit risk exposure. Social 
Housing customers are typically Local Authorities and Housing Associations where credit risk is minimal. Domiciliary Care customers are typically County Councils 
where credit risk is minimal. The credit risk within the M&E division is insured. Included in trade receivables is an amount of £1.9m (2009: £2.1m) which is due after 
more than one year and represents retention balances.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Neither impaired nor past due           45,708 40,308
Less than three months past due but not impaired         6,354 5,212
More than three months but not impaired          3,410 2,647
Total trade and other receivables           55,472 48,167
18. Trade and other payables
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Trade payables            56,103 42,941
Accruals and deferred income           19,612 11,648
Social security and other taxes           15,986 12,469
Due to customers for construction contract work         72 5,566
Due to customers for non‑construction contract work         607 132
Other creditors            5,375 4,440
Amounts due under finance lease contracts          124 411
              97,879 77,607
The fair value of trade payables has not been disclosed as, due to their short duration, management considers the carrying amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet 
to be a reasonable approximation of their fair value.
The amounts due under construction contract work will generally be utilised within the next reporting period.
The amounts due under finance lease contracts are secured on the assets to which they relate.
Included in other creditors is £1,861,000 (2009: £1,801,000) relating to deferred consideration on acquisitions.
19. Long‑term financial liabilities
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Other creditors            959 1,230
Included in other creditors is £0.96m (2009: £1.23m) relating to deferred consideration on acquisitions. 78 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Notes to the financial statements – Group
continued
20. Financial instruments
The Group uses a limited number of financial instruments comprising cash and liquid resources, borrowings and various items such as trade receivables and trade payables 
that arise directly from its operations. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Group’s operations. The Group seeks to finance its operations 
through a combination of retained earnings and borrowings and investing surplus cash on deposit. The Group has no interests in the trade of financial instruments.
Categories of financial instruments
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Financial assets  
Loans and receivables  
Trade receivables            55,472 48,167
Amounts recoverable on contracts          51,925 33,719
Cash at bank and in hand           21,757 23,511
              129,154 105,397
Financial liabilities  
Fair value through the Income Statement (level 2)  
Interest rate swaps            (1,030) (209)
Amortised cost  
Short‑term borrowings and overdrafts          (34,000) (17,000)
Deferred consideration in respect of acquisitions         (2,820) (3,031)
Trade payables            (56,103) (42,941)
Accruals             (19,612) (11,528)
Other creditors            (5,375) (4,440)
              (118,940) (79,149)
              10,214 26,248
The interest rate swaps entered into by the Group are not traded in active markets. The fair values of these contracts are estimated using a valuation technique that 
maximises the use of observable market inputs (level 2).
Fair value information
The fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities is as disclosed above and equals the book value with the exception of the deferred consideration in respect 
of acquisitions where the book value is £2.7m.
Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including interest rate risk and price risk); credit risk; and liquidity risk. The main risks faced 
by the Group relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs and the risk of credit default by customers. The Group’s overall risk management programme 
focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance.
Risk management is carried out under policies and guidelines approved by the Board of Directors. 
Interest rate risk management
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings. The fair value of interest rate exposure on financial liabilities of the 
Group as at 31 December 2010 was:
 Interest rate
            Fixed  Floating  Zero  Total  
            £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial liabilities – 2010         26,064 8,060 2,820 36,944
Financial liabilities – 2009         15,451 2,000 3,031 20,482
The floating rate borrowings bear interest at rates based on LIBOR. The fixed rate borrowings relate to loans, where the interest rate has been fixed by an interest rate 
hedging arrangement, and finance leases.  Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 79
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
20. Financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk management continued
At 31 December 2010 the Group had minimal exposure to movement in interest rates as the interest rate risk was offset by the Group’s cash and short‑term deposits.
In addition, the Group has entered into interest rate hedging arrangements with Barclays Bank PLC and HSBC Bank plc. The HSBC Bank plc and Barclays Bank PLC 
arrangement consists of two £7.5m vanilla swaps, which have been in place for the full year. The Group acquired an additional vanilla swap of £12.6m with 
Barclays Bank PLC upon the acquisition of Supporta plc. This reduced to £12.2m in July 2010 and will reduce to £10.9m in January 2011. The Directors consider that 
these arrangements will limit the Group’s interest rate exposure on the Group’s medium‑term core debt. The hedges expire in December 2011, January 2013 and April 
2013 respectively. 
The losses relating to these hedges are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
If the interest rates had been 0.5% higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit before taxation for the year ended 31 December 2010 
and reserves would decrease or increase by £0.1m.
Borrowing facilities
The Group’s borrowing facilities are drawn on as required to manage its cash needs. Banking facilities are reviewed regularly and extended and replaced in advance 
of their expiry.
The Group had total borrowing facilities of £85m with Barclays Bank plc and HSBC plc, of which £34m was utilised at 31 December 2010.
The facilities comprise a committed five‑year £75.0m revolving credit facility and an unsecured overdraft facility of £10.0m. The undrawn amounts at 31 December 2010 
were a £41.0m revolving credit facility and overdraft facility of £10.0m.
The Group’s borrowings are secured by a fixed and floating charge over all of the Group’s assets.
Liquidity risk management
The main financial risks of the Group relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs.
The Group seeks to manage liquidity risk by ensuring sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity reserve (comprising undrawn borrowing facilities and cash and cash equivalents) on the basis 
of expected cash flows. This is generally carried out at a local level in the operating companies of the Group in accordance with practice and limits set by the Group. 
These limits vary by location and take into account the liquidity and nature of the market in which the entity operates. 
The quantum of committed borrowing facilities of the Group is regularly reviewed and is designed to exceed forecasted peak gross debt levels. For short‑term working 
capital purposes, the Group utilises bank overdrafts as required. These facilities are regularly reviewed and are renegotiated ahead of their expiry date.
The table below shows the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Repayable within one year  
Short‑term borrowings           34,000 17,000
Finance lease payable           124 451
Interest rate swaps            1,030 209
Deferred contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions        1,861 1,801
              37,015 19,461
Repayable between one and two years  
Deferred contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions        959 1,230
              959 1,230
              37,974 20,691 80 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Notes to the financial statements – Group
continued
20. Financial instruments continued
Credit risk management
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables, amounts recoverable on contracts and work in progress. The amounts presented in the 
Balance Sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Group’s management based on prior experience and the current economic environment.
Trade receivables are normally due within 30 to 60 days. Trade and other receivables included in the Balance Sheet are stated net of a bad debt provision which 
has been estimated by management following a review of individual receivable accounts. There is no Group‑wide rate of provision and provision made for debts that 
are overdue is based on prior default experience and known factors at the balance sheet date. Receivables are written off against the bad debt provision when 
management considers that the debt is no longer recoverable.
Social Housing customers are typically Local Authorities and Housing Associations. Domiciliary Care customers are typically County Councils. Any credit risk within 
the M&E division is insured. Other trade receivables contain no specific concentration of credit risk as the amounts recognised represent a large number of receivables 
from various customers.
The Group continuously monitors the position of major customers and incorporates this information into its credit risk controls. External credit ratings are obtained 
where appropriate.
Details of the ageing of trade receivables are shown in note 17.
Deferred contingent consideration
The table below shows the movements in deferred contingent consideration:
                Total 
               £’000
At 1 January 2009             2,625
Increase due to new acquisitions in the year           2,130
Paid in respect of acquisitions            (971)
Adjustments to estimated contingent consideration payable         (793)
Unwinding of discounting            40
At 1 January 2010             3,031
Increase due to new acquisitions in the year           1,000
Adjustments to estimated contingent consideration payable         46
Paid in respect of acquisitions            (1,297)
Unwinding of discounting            40
At 31 December 2010            2,820
Deferred contingent consideration represents an estimate of future consideration likely to be payable in respect of acquisitions. Deferred contingent consideration 
is discounted for the likelihood of payment and for the time value of money. Deferred contingent consideration becomes payable based upon the profitability of 
acquired businesses or in the case of one specific acquisition the utilisation of certain timing differences in respect of Corporation T ax. Further details of the current 
year movements are given in note 24 to the accounts.
Information as to the likely timing of payments in respect of these provisions is provided earlier within this note.
Capital maintenance
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are:
  to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders; 
  to provide an adequate return to shareholders by pricing products and services commensurately with the level of risk; and
  to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group sets the amount of capital in proportion to risk. The Group manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic 
conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends 
paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net funds as disclosed below and equity as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity. 
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents is comprised as follows:  
– cash at bank and in hand           21,757 23,511
– short‑term borrowings and overdrafts          (34,000) (17,000)
Cash and cash equivalents           (12,243) 6,511 Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 81
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
21. Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is calculated on temporary differences under the liability method.
Deferred tax asset
The Group asset for deferred tax as at 31 December 2010 is £8.1m (2009: £6.1m).
             Pension Share‑based  
             scheme payments Total 
             £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2009           135 3,350 3,485
(Debit)/credit to Income Statement         (157) 227 70
Credit to Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity        — 1,624 1,624
Credit to Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income       919 — 919
At 1 January 2010           897 5,201 6,098
Acquisition of Supporta plc          1,385 — 1,385
(Debit)/credit to Income Statement         (1,150) 418 (732)
Credit to Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity        — 283 283
Credit to Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income       1,022 — 1,022
At 31 December 2010          2,154 5,902 8,056
In accordance with IFRS 2 ‘Share‑based Payments’, the Group has recognised an expense for the consumption of employee services received as consideration for 
share options granted. A tax deduction will not arise until the options are exercised. The tax deduction in future periods is dependent upon the Company’s share price 
at the date of exercise. The estimated future tax deduction is based on the options’ intrinsic value at the balance sheet date.
The cumulative amount credited to the Income Statement is limited to the tax effect of the associated cumulative share‑based payment expense. The excess has 
been credited directly to equity. This is presented in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The deferred tax asset that arises on pre 7 November 2002 grants, even though the grants themselves are not accounted for within the Income Statement, is credited 
directly to equity.
Unused tax losses totalling £17.3m (2009: £17.3m) have not been recognised as the Directors do not consider that it is probable that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax liabilities
              Accelerated  
             Acquisition capital  
             intangibles allowances  Total 
             £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2009           2,859 300 3,159
On acquisition intangibles acquired         2,877 — 2,877
Released in respect of amortisation         (1,390) — (1,390)
Provided in respect of accelerated capital allowances        — — —
At 1 January 2010           4,346 300 4,646
On acquisition intangibles acquired         5,170 69 5,239
Released in respect of amortisation         (2,833) — (2,833)
Provided in respect of accelerated capital allowances        — (69) (69)
At 31 December 2010          6,683 300 6,983
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of the acquisition and amortised over their useful economic lives. 
The UK tax regime calculates tax using the individual financial statements of the members of the Group and not the consolidated accounts. Hence, the tax base 
of acquisition intangible assets is nil. The estimated tax effect of this nil tax base is accounted for as a deferred tax liability which is released over the period 
of amortisation of the associated acquisition intangible asset. 82 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Notes to the financial statements – Group
continued
22. Share capital and reserves
Classes of reserves
Called up share capital represents the nominal value of shares that have been issued.
Share premium represents the difference between the nominal value of shares issued and the total consideration received.
Share‑based payment reserve represents employee remuneration which is credited to the share‑based payment reserve until the related share options are exercised. 
Upon exercise the share‑based payment reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
The merger reserve relates to the difference between the nominal value and total consideration in respect of acquisitions, where the Company was entitled 
to the merger relief offered by the Companies Act.
Share capital
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid  
74,391,610 (2009: 74,001,851) ordinary shares of 1p each        744 740
Issue of 9,942,323 (2009: nil) shares on acquisition of Supporta plc        99 —
Issue of 481,537 (2009: 389,759) shares on exercise of share options        5 4
84,815,470 (2009: 74,391,610) ordinary shares of 1p each        848 744
9,942,323 ordinary 1p shares were issued in respect of the acquisition of Supporta plc, with the difference between the nominal value of £0.9m and the total consideration 
of £26.7m has been credited to the merger reserve.
481,537 ordinary 1p shares were issued in respect of share options exercised. The difference between the nominal value of £0.01m and the total consideration 
of £0.74m has been credited to the share premium account.
23. Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement
The following non‑operating cash flow adjustments have been made to the pre tax result for the year:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Depreciation             3,182 2,146
Cost of acquisitions            748 —
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment         94 114
Loss on disposal of investments           115 —
Amortisation            10,511 5,214
Share‑based payments           750 500
Finance income            (63) (190)
Finance cost            2,462 1,584
Total             17,799 9,368 Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 83
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
24. Acquisitions
The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Supporta plc, a number of social housing contracts from the administrators of Connaught Partnerships Limited, 
100% of the issued share capital of Jackson Lloyd Limited and the social housing business assets of the Bristol social housing business of Rok Building Limited. 
The effect of the acquisitions on the Group’s assets was as follows:
 Supporta plc  Other
         Book Fair Book  Provisional fair 
         value Adjustments value value Adjustments value Total 
         £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Non‑current
Property, plant and equipment      723 (32) 691 317 — 317 1,008
Intangible assets       2,273 (2,273) — — — — —
Current
Inventories       — — — 386 — 386 386
Trade receivables       5,097 (138) 4,959 5,292 (234) 5,058 10,017
Other receivables       3,628 113 3,741 626 — 626 4,367
Cash at bank and in hand      1,616 — 1,616 1 — 1 1,617
Total assets       13,337 (2,330) 11,007 6,622 (234)  6,388 17,395
Liabilities
Current
Short‑term borrowings and overdrafts     (20,013) — (20,013) (2,934) — (2,934) (22,947)
Trade payables       (1,120) — (1,120) (3,171) — (3,171) (4,291)
Other payables       (1,728) (103) (1,831) (2,392) — (2,392) (4,223)
Accruals        (3,320) (898) (4,218) (1,747) (382) (2,129) (6,347)
Non‑current
Pension liability       (4,493) (434) (4,927) — — — (4,927)
Other non‑current payables      (844) (402) (1,246) — — — (1,246)
Total liabilities       (31,518) (1,837) (33,355) (10,244) (382) (10,626) (43,981)
Net assets acquired       (18,181) (4,167) (22,348) (3,622) (616) (4,238) (26,586)
Intangibles capitalised        10,070   9,848 19,918
Deferred tax liability recognised in respect of intangibles capitalised     (2,820)   (2,350) (5,170)
Goodwill capitalised         42,028   2,350 44,378
           26,930   5,610 32,540
Satisfied by:
– cash          —   4,610 4,610
– deferred contingent consideration       —   1,000 1,000
– shares issued         26,930   — 26,930
           26,930   5,610  32,540
The fair value adjustments above relate to costs not accrued at the time of the acquisition and the alignment of the acquired company accounting policies with those 
of the Group.
In respect of acquired receivables, the gross contractual amounts receivable equate to the fair values shown above.
The fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired in respect of Jackson Lloyd Limited and the social housing business assets of the Bristol social housing business 
of Rok Building Limited are currently considered to be provisional awaiting further information in respect of certain liabilities. The fair value included above is the Directors’ 
best estimate of assets and liabilities acquired.
On 27 January 2010 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Supporta plc for £27.0m which was satisfied by the issue of 9,942,323 ordinary 
1p shares. The fair value of shares issued was determined using the closing share price immediately prior to the offer of 269.5p. The purchase has been accounted 
for by the acquisition method of accounting. Supporta plc’s principal activities were domiciliary care and professional services including provision of planning, project 
management, land management, business process outsourcing, system support, managed services, consultancy, data archiving and scanning services.
On 10 September 2010 the Group acquired a number of social housing contracts from the administrators of Connaught Partnerships Limited for a total consideration of £0.5m. 84 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Notes to the financial statements – Group
continued
24. Acquisitions continued
On 30 September 2010 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Jackson Lloyd Limited for an initial consideration of £2.1m and deferred contingent 
consideration estimated to be £1.0m. The maximum deferred contingent consideration payable is £1.0m. Deferred consideration recognised is based upon contract 
retention and the use of tax losses. The Directors have considered the likelihood of the consideration being payable and consider that £1.0m is the appropriate 
carrying value for the liability.
On 18 November 2010 the Group acquired the social housing business assets of the Bristol social housing division of Rok Building Limited for a total consideration of £2m.
The Supporta plc intangible asset is recognised and valued at £10.1m. The values represent the expected value to be derived from the acquired order book, existing 
customer relationships and software rights:
  the order books represent block contracts (Care) or general order books (Professional Services). The value placed on these order books is based upon the cash flow 
projections over the contract terms. Due to uncertainties with trying to forecast revenues beyond the contract term, the Directors have taken a measure of prudence 
and value contracts over the contract term only. The cash flows were discounted at the weighted average cost of capital of 12.5%, which the Directors consider 
is commensurate with the risks associated with capturing returns from the order book. The order book has been valued over the estimated useful life of three years; 
  the customer relationships represent spot contract (Care) or general customer relationships (Professional Services). The value placed on these customer relationships 
is based on the expected cash inflows. The cash flows are discounted at the segment’s weighted average cost of capital of 12.5% which the Directors consider 
is commensurate with the risks associated with capturing returns from the customer relationships. The cash flow projections assumed a customer attrition rate 
of 5% having considered three‑year historic trends on a branch‑by‑branch basis. The assumptions result in a life, for active customers, of five years; and
  the software rights represent in‑house developed software utilised in the Professional Services operation. The value placed on this software is based on the depreciated 
replacement cost method. The software is expected to be used on existing and future projects for a further five years. On that basis the software is assumed to have 
a remaining life of five years.
The Directors consider that the value assigned to goodwill represents the workforce acquired, the cost synergies available, the new geographical coverage as a result 
of this acquisition and the resultant critical mass.
The Connaught Partnership Limited, Jackson Lloyd Limited and Rok Building Limited intangible assets are recognised and valued at £0.5m, £8.4m and £0.9m 
respectively. The values represent the expected value to be derived from the acquired order book and existing customer relationships:
  the value placed on these order books is based upon the cash flow projections over the contract term. Due to uncertainties with trying to forecast revenues beyond 
the contract term, the Directors have taken a measure of prudence and value contracts over the contract term only. The cash flows were discounted at the 
Social Housing segment’s weighted average cost of capital of 9.3%, which the Directors consider is commensurate with the risks associated with capturing returns 
from the order book. The order book has been valued over the estimated useful life of three years; and
  the value placed on these customer relationships is based on the expected cash inflows. The cash flows are discounted at the Social Housing segment’s weighted 
average cost of capital of 9.3% which the Directors consider is commensurate with the risks associated with capturing returns from the customer relationships. 
The cash flow projections assumed a customer attrition rate of 5% having considered three‑year historic trends on a branch‑by‑branch basis. The assumptions 
result in a life, for active customers, of five years.
In the period ended 31 December 2010, the Supporta plc acquisition contributed revenue of £40.2m and £2.4m operating profit before amortisation of intangibles. 
In the period ended 31 December 2010, the Jackson Lloyd Limited acquisition contributed turnover of £5.8m and £0.2m operating loss before amortisation 
of intangibles.
For the year ended 31 December 2010, had the acquisitions taken place on 1 January 2010, the combined Group full year revenue for the year is estimated at £559.7m 
and the combined Group result for the year before taxation is estimated at £15.3m.
Analysis of net outflow in respect of the purchase of the subsidiary undertakings:
             Supporta plc Other Total 
             £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash at bank and in hand acquired         1,616 1 1,617
Short‑term borrowings and overdrafts         (20,013) (2,934) (22,947)
Cash consideration           — (4,610) (4,610)
Costs paid           (882) (14) (896)
Cash paid in respect of prior year acquisitions         — (1,286) (1,286)
             (19,279) (8,843) (28,122)
During the year the Group paid £1.3m in respect of contingent consideration relating to acquisitions in prior periods.
Subsequent to the balance sheet date, the Group acquired a network of Home Improvement Agencies from Anchor Trust. No book assets or liabilities were acquired 
in regards to the transaction. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 85
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
25. Disposals
Datacare was acquired earlier in the year as part of the Supporta plc acquisition and was not considered core to the Group’s strategy. The Group disposed 
of Datacare Business Systems Limited in September 2010 for £1.0m. The effect of the disposals on the Group’s assets was as follows:
               £’000
Assets 
Non‑current 
Property, plant and equipment            453
Intangible assets             265
Goodwill              362
Current 
Trade receivables             241
Other receivables             75
Cash at bank and in hand            22
Total assets             1,418
Liabilities 
Current 
Trade payables             (105)
Other payables             (190)
Total liabilities             (295)
Net assets disposed of            1,123
Loss on disposal             (115)
               1,008
Satisfied by: 
– cash              1,008
               1,008
Analysis of net inflow in respect of the disposal of the subsidiary undertaking:
               £’000
Cash at bank and in hand             (22)
Cash consideration             1,008
               986
26. Pensions
Defined contribution schemes
The Group operates a defined contribution Group personal pension scheme for the benefit of certain employees. The Group contributes to personal pension schemes 
of certain Directors and senior employees. The Group operates a stakeholder pension plan available to all employees. During the year, the Group contributed £1.4m 
(2009: £0.6m) to these schemes.
Defined benefit schemes
The Group contributes to 13 (2009: 8) principal defined benefit schemes on behalf of a number of employees which require contributions to be made to separately 
administered funds.
These pension schemes are operated on behalf of Mears Limited, Scion Group Limited, Supporta Services Limited, Mears Care Limited and their subsidiary 
undertakings. The assets of the scheme are administered by trustees in a fund independent from the assets of the Group.
Following the transfer of a number of employees in respect of new contracts in the year, the Group has gained Admitted Body status for three defined benefit 
schemes. At the time of admission these schemes had a net deficit of £142m. The initial plan assets and liabilities recognised as a result of these admissions are 
shown as ‘Contract transfers’ on page 87.
In certain cases, the Group will participate under Admitted Body status in the Local Government Pension Scheme. The Group will contribute for a finite period up 
until the end of the particular contract. The Group is required to pay regular contributions as detailed in the scheme’s schedule of contributions. In some cases 
these contributions are capped and any excess can be recovered from the body from which the employees originally transferred. Where the Pension Scheme has a 
contractual right to recover the costs of making good any deficit in the scheme from the Group’s client, the fair value of that asset has been recognised within the 
Group’s share of the scheme assets and disclosed on page 86. Certain judgements around the value of this asset have been made and are discussed in the 
judgements and estimates disclosure within the accounting policies. 86 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Notes to the financial statements – Group
continued
26. Pensions continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
Following the announcement in the June 2010 budget, the United Kingdom Government has announced it will use the CPI measure of inflation rather then RPI 
to determine statutory pension increases for public sector schemes. The move to CPI has been treated as a change in benefits and has been recognised as a negative 
past service cost in the Income Statement. As a result of this change, £3.7m has been recognised in the Income Statement.
The disclosures in respect of the 13 (2009: 8) defined benefit schemes in this note have been aggregated.
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’
Costs and liabilities of the scheme are based on actuarial valuations. The latest full actuarial valuations for the schemes were updated to 31 December 2010 
by qualified independent actuaries using the projected unit method.
The principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date are as follows:
              2010 2009
Rate of increase of salaries           4.2% 4.4%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment          3.2% 3.4%
Discount rate            5.2% 5.7%
Inflation             3.2% 3.4%
Life expectancy for a 65 year old male          21.6 years 20.7 years
Life expectancy for a 65 year old female          23.7 years 22.6 years
Expected rates of return on investments are:
              2010 2009 
              % %
Equities             7.0 7.0
Bonds             4.7 4.8
Property             6.8 6.1
Cash             3.2 3.0
The amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet and major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are:
 2010  2009
            % £’000 % £’000
Equities           62 51,682 62 39,684
Bonds           19 16,251 21 13,267
Guarantee          6 4,728 8 5,092
Property           10 8,798 6 4,115
Cash           3 2,230 3 2,067
Group’s estimated asset share          83,689  64,225
Present value of funded scheme liabilities         (90,837)  (67,006)
Funded status           (7,148)  (2,781)
Asset value not recognised as surplus         (545)  (424)
Pension liability           (7,693)  (3,205)
The amounts recognised in the Income Statement are as follows:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Current service cost            2,357 1,430
Past service cost            (3,718) 12
Total operating charge           (1,361) 1,442
Amount charged to net interest payable:  
– expected return on pension scheme assets          (4,279) (2,950)
– expected return on pension scheme liabilities         4,591 2,977
Interest on obligation           312 27
Total charged to the result for year          (1,049) 1,469 Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 87
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
26. Pensions continued
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ continued
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Present value of obligations at 1 January          67,006 42,778
Current service cost            2,357 1,430
Past service cost            (3,718) 12
Interest on obligations           4,591 2,977
Plan participants’ contributions           784 678
Benefits paid            (1,280) (719)
Contract transfer            4,011 2,981
Acquisitions            10,281 —
Actuarial loss            6,805 16,869
Present value of obligations at 31 December          90,837 67,006
Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January          64,225 45,575
Expected return on plan assets           4,279 2,950
Employers’ contributions           3,041 2,386
Plan participants’ contributions           784 679
Benefits paid            (1,280) (719)
Contract transfer            4,251 3,607
Acquisitions            5,354 —
Actuarial gain            3,035 9,747
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December          83,689 64,225
The movements in the net pension liability and the amount recognised in the Balance Sheet are as follows:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Deficit in schemes at 1 January           (3,205) (488)
Current service cost            (2,357) (1,430)
Past service cost            3,718 (12)
Contributions            3,041 2,386
Other finance income           (312) (27)
Actuarial loss            (3,770) (7,121)
Contract transfer            240 626
Acquisitions            (4,927) —
Reduction in actuarial (gain)/loss due to non‑recognition of scheme surpluses       (121) 2,861
Deficit in schemes at 31 December          (7,693) (3,205) 88 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
26. Pensions continued
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ continued
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity are as follows:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
At 1 January            (4,626) (992)
Actuarial gain on TUPE transfer of employees          (5,152) 626
Actuarial loss recognised in the year          (3,305) (7,121)
              (13,083) (7,487)
Reduction in actuarial gain due to non‑recognition of scheme surpluses       (121) 2,861
Total at 31 December           (13,204) (4,626)
History of experience gains and losses are as follows:
           2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
           £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Fair value of scheme assets        83,689 64,225 45,575 1,411 1,145
Net present value of defined benefit obligations      (90,837) (67,006) (42,778) (1,466) (1,528)
Net (deficit)/surplus         (7,148) (2,781) 2,797 (55) (383)
Asset value not recognised as surplus       (545) (424) (3,285) — —
Net deficit         (7,693) (3,205) (488) (55) (383)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets     
Amount          3,501 9,747 (8,527) (45) 27
Percentage of scheme assets        4.2% 15.2% (18.7%) (3.2%) 2.4%
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities     
Amount          376 1,364 4 88 49
Percentage of scheme assets        0.4% 2.0% — 6.0% 3.2%
The employers’ contributions expected to be paid during the financial year ending 31 December 2010 amount to £3.0m.
27. Operating lease commitments
Non‑cancellable operating lease rentals payable were as follows:
 Land and buildings  Other
            2010 2009  2010 2009  
            £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Expiry date        
Within one year          1,651 1,654 9,143 7,618
Between two and five years         5,107 4,744 9,656 7,013
After more than five years         2,895 2,555 — 86
28. Capital commitments
The Group had no capital commitments at 31 December 2010 or at 31 December 2009.
29. Contingent liabilities
The Group has guaranteed that it will complete the contracts it has commenced with 17 (2009: 15) Local Authorities. At 31 December 2010 these guarantees 
amounted to £5.73m (2009: £5.27m).
The Group had no other contingent liabilities at 31 December 2010 or at 31 December 2009. 
Notes to the financial statements – Group
continued Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 89
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
30. Related party transactions
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its pension schemes, its subsidiaries and with its Directors.
Pension schemes
Details of contributions to pension schemes are set out in note 26 to the financial statements.
Subsidiaries
The Group has a central treasury arrangement in which all subsidiaries participate. The Directors do not consider it meaningful to set out details of transfers made 
in respect of this treasury arrangement between companies, nor do they consider it meaningful to set out details of interest or dividend payments made within the Group.
Transactions with key management personnel
The Group has identified key management personnel as the Directors of Mears Group PLC.
Key management personnel held the following percentage of voting shares in Mears Group PLC:
              2010 2009 
              % %
Directors             0.9 1.1
Key management personnel’s compensation is as follows:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Salaries             1,586 1,700
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes         199 193
Share‑based payments           592 286
              2,377 2,179
Further details of Directors’ remuneration are disclosed within the Remuneration Report.
Transactions with other related parties
No transactions with other related parties occurred in the year. 90 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Company accounts Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 91
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards and under the historical cost convention.
The principal accounting policies of the Company are set out below. The following accounting policies have remained unchanged from the previous year. 
Investments
Investments are included at cost net of any provision for impairment.
The Company was entitled to the merger relief offered by Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of the consideration received in excess of the nominal 
value of the equity shares issued in connection with the acquisition of Supporta plc.
Share‑based employee remuneration
All share‑based payment arrangements that were granted after 7 November 2002 are recognised in the financial statements. 
The Group operates equity‑settled share‑based remuneration plans for its employees. All employee services received in exchange for the grant of any share‑based 
remuneration are measured at their fair values. These are indirectly determined by reference to the fair value of the share options awarded. Their value is determined 
at the date of grant and is not subsequently remeasured unless the conditions on which the award was granted are modified. The fair value at the date of the grant 
is calculated using the Binomial and Monte Carlo option pricing models and the cost is recognised on a straight‑line basis over the vesting period. Adjustments are 
made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period. 
Share‑based remuneration in respect of employees of the Company is ultimately recognised as an expense in the Income Statement with a corresponding credit 
to share‑based payment reserve. Share‑based remuneration in respect of employees of other Group companies is recharged to that subsidiary company.
Upon exercise of share options, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs up to the nominal value of the shares issued are allocated 
to share capital with any excess being recorded as share premium.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the transactions or events that give the Company an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right 
to pay less tax in the future, have occurred by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is more likely than not that they will be recovered. 
Deferred tax is measured using rates of tax that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Retirement benefits
Defined contribution pension scheme
The pension costs charged against profits are the contributions payable to individual policies in respect of the accounting period.
Principal accounting policies – Company 92 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial instruments
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity instrument is any 
contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the entity after deducting all of its financial liabilities.
Where the contractual obligations of financial instruments (including share capital) are equivalent to a similar debt instrument, those financial instruments are classed 
as financial liabilities. Financial liabilities are presented as such in the Balance Sheet. Finance costs and gains or losses relating to financial liabilities are included in the 
profit and loss account. Finance costs are calculated so as to produce a constant rate of return on the outstanding liability.
Where the contractual terms of share capital do not have any terms meeting the definition of a financial liability then this is classed as an equity instrument. 
Dividends and distributions relating to equity instruments are debited direct to equity.
Loans and debtors
Trade debtors are non‑derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They arise when the company provides 
money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the debtors. Trade debtors are initially recorded at invoiced value (less a provisional estimate 
for impairment) and subsequently remeasured at invoiced value, less an updated provision for impairment. Any change in their value through impairment or reversal 
of impairment is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and bank deposits available at less than 24 hours’ notice. Bank overdrafts are presented as current 
liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances. 
Following initial recognition, financial assets are subsequently remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. The method 
of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising from its financing activities. In accordance with its treasury policy the Company 
does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The Company recognises gains or losses on derivatives at f air value through the Profit and Loss Account.
Principal accounting policies – Company
continued Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 93
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
          2010 2009 
         Note £’000 £’000
Fixed assets   
Investments           5 53,345 53,110
Current assets   
Debtors: amounts due in less than one year        6 44,173 34,199
Cash at bank and in hand         402 304
          44,575 34,503
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year        7 (35,107) (18,186)
Net current assets             9,468 16,317
Total assets less current liabilities         62,813 69,427
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year        8 (880) (1,190)
              61,933 68,237
Capital and reserves   
Called up share capital        9 848 744
Share premium account        10 33,243 32,505
Shares to be issued        10 2,905 2,649
Profit and loss account          10 24,937 32,339
Equity shareholders’ funds           61,933 68,237
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 15 April 2011.
R Holt A C M Smith
Director Director
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Parent Company balance sheet
as at 31 December 2010 
Company number: 3232863 94 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Notes to the financial statements – Company
1. Profit for the financial year
The Parent Company has taken advantage of Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not included its own Profit and Loss Account in these financial statements. 
The Group profit for the year includes a loss of £2.8m (2009: £10.1m) which is dealt within the financial statements of the Company. This result is stated after charging 
auditor’s remuneration of £60,800 relating to audit services and £5,000 relating to taxation services.
2. Directors and employees
Employee benefits expense
All staff costs relate to Directors. Staff costs during the year were as follows:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries            1,300 1,700
Social security costs            286 275
Other pension costs            199 193
              1,785 2,168
The average number of employees of the Company during the year was:
              2010 2009 
              Number Number
Office and management           10 7
Details relating to the remuneration in respect of the highest paid Director are detailed in note 5 of the consolidated financial statements.
3. Share‑based employee remuneration
As at 31 December 2010 the Group maintained six share‑based payment schemes for employee remuneration. The details of each scheme are included within note 6 
to the consolidated financial statements.
All share‑based employee remuneration will be settled in equity. The Group has no legal obligation to repurchase or settle the options.
In total, £0.6m of employee remuneration expense has been included in the Company’s Profit and Loss Account for 2010 (2009: £0.4m), which gave rise to additional 
paid‑in capital. No liabilities were recognised due to share‑based payment transactions.
4. Dividends
The following dividends were paid on ordinary shares in the year:
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Final 2009 dividend of 4.10p (2009: final 2008 dividend of 3.40p) per share       3,469 2,522
Interim 2010 dividend of 1.90p (2009: interim 2009 dividend of 1.60p) per share       1,610 1,188
              5,079 3,710
The proposed final 2010 dividend of 4.85p per share has not been included within the financial statements as no obligation existed at 31 December 2010.
5. Fixed asset investments
             Investment in   
             subsidiary   
             undertakings Loans Total 
             £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost   
At 1 January 2010           31,110 22,000 53,110
Additions           235 — 235
At 31 December 2010          31,345 22,000 53,345
Additions to investments in subsidiary undertakings relate to the acquisition of Supporta plc. Details of this acquisition are shown in note 24 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company are shown in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 / 95
Review of the year  
Corporate governance  
Financial statements  
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
6. Debtors
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Amounts owed by Group undertakings          43,192 33,766
Prepayments and accrued income          981 433
              44,173 34,199
7. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Bank loan            34,000 17,000
Corporation Tax            — 2
Other creditors            7 826
Accruals             1,100 358
              35,107 18,186
Included in other creditors is £nil (2009: £0.8m) relating to deferred consideration on acquisitions. Included within accruals is £1.0m (2009: £0.2m) relating to 
an interest rate hedge.
8. Creditors: amounts falling due in more than one year
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Other creditors            880 1,190
Included in other creditors is £0.9m (2009: £1.2m) relating to deferred consideration on acquisitions.
9. Share capital
              2010 2009 
              £’000 £’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid  
74,391,610 (2009: 74,001,851) ordinary shares of 1p each        744 740
Issue of 9,942,323 (2009: nil) shares on acquisition of Supporta plc        99 —
Issue of 481,537 (2009: 389,759) shares on exercise of share options        5 4
84,815,470 (2009: 74,391,610) ordinary shares of 1p each        848 744
9,942,323 ordinary 1p shares were issued in respect of the acquisition of Supporta plc. The Company took advantage of merger relief in respect of the difference 
between then nominal value of £0.09m and the total consideration of £26.7m.
481,537 ordinary 1p shares were issued in respect of share options exercised. The difference between the nominal value of £0.01m and the total consideration 
of £0.74m has been credited to the share premium account. 96 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2010 www.mearsgroup.co.uk
10. Share premium account and reserves
             Share Share‑based Profit  
            Share  premium  payment and loss 
            capital  account  reserve account  
            £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
At 1 January 2010          744 32,505 2,649 32,339
Issue of shares          104 738 — —
Share option charges          — — 750 —
Exercise of share options         — — (494) 494
Loss for the year          — — — (7,896)
At 31 December 2010         848 33,243 2,905 24,937
11. Capital commitments
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2010 or at 31 December 2009.
12. Contingent liabilities
The Company had no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2010 or at 31 December 2009.
13. Pensions
Defined contribution schemes 
The Company contributes to personal pension schemes of the Directors.
14. Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption with FRS 8 not to disclose transactions with companies which are 100% owned by the Group.
During the year the Company purchased insurance cover, via a UK insurance company, of £1.6m (2009: £1.6m) from Mears Insurance Captive Limited, a company 
registered in Guernsey which is 99.99% owned by Mears Group PLC. At 31 December 2010 the Group owed £0.4m (2009: £0.4m) to the Group’s UK insurance 
company, which in turn owed the balance to Mears Insurance Captive Limited.
Notes to the financial statements – Company
continued We are committed to communicating 
with all stakeholders. Our website contains 
a full investor section with news, share 
price information and the latest reports 
and presentations.
Archived reports
Copies of our Annual and Interim 
Reports for the past ten years are 
available in the investor relations 
section of our website. The 2010 
Report is available as an interactive 
microsite or as a downloadable pdf.
Corporate information
For more on our business, our services 
and our stakeholders, visit our corporate 
website at www.mearsgroup.co.uk.
Presentations
Mears publishes full investor 
presentations twice a year, which 
are archived and available for 
download in the investor relations 
section of our website.
Visit us online:
ar10.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate website:
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
The group’s commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this Annual Report which has 
been printed on Cocoon Silk 50, a high quality Silk coated paper and board range made from 
50% de-inked post consumer waste and 50% FSC
®
 certified virgin fibre and Cocoon Pre-Print 
100 a 100% recycled paper made using FSC certified fibres.
This report was printed by Pureprint Group using their environmental print technology which 
minimises the impact of printing on the environment. Vegetable based inks have been used 
and 99% of dry waste is diverted from landfill. Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company. Mears Group PLC
1390 Montpellier Court 
Gloucester Business Park 
Brockworth 
Gloucester GL3 4AH 
Tel: 01453 511 911 
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
