 Making 
a positive 
difference...
Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011 How do we do this? Read more...
By operating a successful and sustainable business model 
that delivers an effective integrated service to the people 
and communities with whom we partner. 
By continuing to see significant growth opportunities 
flowing from our differentiated quality focused 
market position.
By developing a focused strategy based on our core 
values by working towards growing our business, 
expanding our geographic coverage and innovating 
through existing partnerships.
We maintain and improve homes as well as care for the people who 
live in them.
Every day we carry out more than 4,000 repairs to people’s homes. 
We also deliver over 8 million hours of care and support every 
year to vulnerable people, helping them to live in their own homes 
for longer.
 
...through keeping our promises 
and delivering a consistent, 
high quality service.
page 02
page 06
page 10 01 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
Review of the year / Highlights
In this report
Review of the year 
Highlights 01
Our business model  02
Chairman’s statement  04 
Our markets  06
Chief Executive’s review 08
Financial review 22
Risk management 26
Corporate social responsibility 28
Corporate governance 
Board of Directors 30
Shareholder and corporate information 32
Report of the Directors 33
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 36
Corporate governance statement 37
Remuneration report  44
Financial statements
Report of the independent auditor 56
Principal accounting policies – Group 58
Consolidated income statement 68
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 69
Consolidated balance sheet 70
Consolidated cash flow statement  71
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 72
Notes to the financial statements – Group  73
Company accounts 102
Principal accounting policies – Company  103
Parent company balance sheet  105
Notes to the financial statements – Company 106
*  Before exceptional items and before 
amortisation of acquisition intangibles.
**  Based on normalised earnings before 
exceptional items and the amortisation 
of acquisition intangibles together with 
an adjustment to reflect a full tax charge.
Read our Finance review 
in full on page 22
7.50p
Dividend per share (p)
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
7.50
6.75
5.70
4.75
4.00
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
£589.0m
Group revenue (£m)
589.0
523.9
470.1
420.4
304.6
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
26.01p
Diluted earnings per share (p)**
26.01
23.38
21.61
18.99
16.40
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
£33.6m
Group operating profit (£m)*
33.6
31.3
24.8
21.0
17.1
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
£2.9bn
Order book (£bn) 
2.9
2.7
2.0
1.6
1.4 02 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Our business model
How we operate.
Our success is built on strong, 
long-term partnerships with 
Local Authorities and Housing 
Associations, as well as with 
community groups, supply chain 
partners, staff and our investors.
We focus on long-term outcomes 
for people and invest in innovations 
that make a positive impact on 
their quality of life and on their 
communities’ social, economical 
and environmental wellbeing. 
Our focus is on maintaining excellence in service delivery. 
This drives our increasing market share and strong 
financial output.
We focus on people...
...to deliver 
our expertise...
...using an 
ambitious approach...
A developmental approach
Our approach is based on the development 
of outstanding partnerships with employees, 
clients, tenants, service users, their families and 
the wider community. Success enables us to 
create great opportunities for our employees 
and sustainable value for our shareholders.
Mears today employs almost 
1 1,500 people in every region 
of the UK. Health and wellbeing, 
socialisation and community 
integration and homes fit for 
purpose are all key elements 
in keeping people living happily, 
safely and securely at home.
>4,000
Repairs made every day
>8 million
Hours of care delivered per year
Care and repair
Integrating our range of services brings distinct 
advantages: care-services workers are uniquely 
placed to identify potential problems or hazards 
that could cause an accident and giving them 
direct access to a complete range of services 
enables preventative measures to be taken quickly.
Thought leadership
The challenges of delivering service improvements 
at lower costs require innovative thinking and 
extensive consultation between all stakeholders. 
Mears is unique in providing a range of services 
that help address some of the major challenges 
our country faces: quality social housing, 
building communities, caring for the vulnerable 
and sustainability.
Read our CSR review for more on page 28
Read more about our care and repair 
developments on page 16 03 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
Making a positive 
difference to the 
communities 
we serve.
Social Housing Care and Support
Mears is uniquely place to benefit from the expected 
growth in both our core markets of Social Housing and 
Care and Support. As leaders in these sectors, we will 
continue to innovate both in improving service quality 
and in finding long-term value for money solutions. 
We believe the future requires new partnerships to 
be built that link together housing, social care and 
the NHS. These partnerships will provide integrated 
services that improve customer outcomes as well 
as meet the financial challenges that exist.
...across key target markets... ...creating a seamless, integrated service.
£23.9m
Social Housing operating profit*
2010: £22.9m
+4%
£8.7m
Care and Support operating profit
2010: £7.5m
+15%
Learn more about our markets and their opportunities on page 14
With several growth drivers in Social 
Housing, including consolidation of 
Landlords and Housing Associations, 
this trend leads to increasing 
opportunities for organisations 
such as Mears.
The future of care is very positive. 
Demographic changes mean 1.7m 
more adults will require care over 
the next 20 years. A key factor 
is the increasing role of the NHS 
is taking in joint commissioning. Read case studies 
about how we’re actively 
applying our integrated 
services in communities 
on pages 15 and 16
*  Before exceptional items and pre amortisation of acquisition intangibles. 04 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Chairman’s statement
Another year of solid progress.
“ We continue to place great emphasis on winning good quality contracts that can provide 
clear and sustainable margins, whilst at the same time providing a first class service 
and value offering for our clients.”
Bob Holt / Chairman
Both profits and revenue have risen for the 
sixteenth consecutive year. Our Social Housing and 
Care revenues grew by 9% and 8% respectively. 
Profit before tax, amortisation and non-recurring 
items rose to £31.5m (2010: £28.9m) on revenue of 
£589.0m (2010: £523.9m). The normalised diluted 
earnings per share increased by 11% to 26.01p 
(2010: 23.38p). The Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 5.35p per share (2010: 4.85p), making 
7 .50p per share for the year, an increase of 11%.
Cash generated from operations as a proportion of 
the profit for the year (before tax and amortisation) 
amounted to 91% (2010: 97%), reflecting the strength 
of our working capital management.
We are extremely pleased with this robust set 
of results given both the continuing impact of 
the current economic situation and, critically, 
in the wake of the sudden decision by the UK 
Government to accelerate the reduction in the 
Feed-in Tariff subsidy for solar photovoltaic 
(PV) installations.
This year, three things stand out for me in 
particular. First and foremost, our already 
market-leading service delivery performance 
continued to be recognised by tenants and 
customers alike. Second, we demonstrated how 
we can make a real difference in challenging times, 
as we transformed the contracts we have inherited 
from failed businesses. Third, in a support services 
sector, where many well established businesses 
have struggled to deliver significant organic growth, 
we have managed to reap the rewards from our 
investment over the years in high quality customer 
service with strong organic growth.
The PV Tariff decision was reached without 
consultation and has been a disaster for the 
industry that had been heralded as a major 
boost to the economy and the environment. 
The Government has been found to have acted 
unlawfully by the Court of Appeal; consequently, 
the industry is somewhat in ‘limbo’. Pending 
clarification on the longer-term outlook, we took 
the prudent view to mothball our solar panel 
operations and to write off the costs expended to 
date in the 2011 financial year. Whilst PV formed 
only a small add-on to our core Social Housing 
business, the speed of the Government change 
resulted in a disproportionate impact.
As stakeholders begin tackling the underlying 
challenges in social housing and care in a 
sustainable fashion, I am confident that our 
differentiated quality-focused market position 
will see us reap the rewards for which we have 
worked hard.
Record order book
Our order book stands at £2.9 billion. The demand 
for our services continues to be very strong with 
a bid pipeline in excess of £3.0 billion with an 
immediate bidding opportunity for contracts due 
to start in the course of the next twelve months 
in excess of £2.0 billion. We enter the current year 
with visibility of 94% of the £649m consensus 
revenue forecast for 2012. Moreover, we have 
visibility over 80% of the £686m consensus 
revenue forecast for 2013 which demonstrates 
our strong position and reflects the long-term 
nature of our business.
We are well placed to benefit from the immediate 
bid pipeline and the wider contracting opportunity 
in both our core growth markets. Our relationship 
with our customers continues to be strong and our 
partnering ethos is recognised and appreciated 
widely. We are delighted that customers feel able 
to award, as well as renew, contracts to the Group 
across an array of activities.
“ We will grow through 
further contract wins, 
underpinned by our 
market‑leading service 
delivery and, where 
appropriate, regional 
in‑fill acquisitions.”
Social Housing 05 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
Strategic developments
We have been broadening our care and support 
offerings to our clients. The acquisition of the 
Supported Living division of Choices Care brings 
the Group capabilities in providing a supported 
living service to adults with learning disabilities, 
autism and mental health needs, in their own 
homes. These adults tend to require a more 
complex care support package than is often 
offered in the traditional domiciliary care area. 
The acquisition of a group of home improvement 
agencies from Anchor Housing further strengthens 
our capability to help keep people in their own 
homes for longer. Home improvement agencies 
contract with Local Authorities to provide primarily 
home adaptation and handyman services to 
vulnerable owner-occupiers in local communities. 
Together, these two acquired businesses are an 
excellent complement to our existing operations; 
both have reported growth since acquisition.
Progressive social housing customers continue to 
seek innovative solutions to their needs. The Group 
has been active in developing new propositions 
around ‘in-sourcing’ and ‘new homes’. Our unique 
integrated care and housing offering continues to 
resonate with customers. Our first integrated service 
operation is up and running in Wigan. Irrespective 
of the current uncertainty over PV, we will continue 
to strive to provide solutions to our customers and 
clients to address the challenges of fuel poverty.
Committed employees
I commend our employees for their commitment 
and energy throughout another significant year 
for the Group. I continue to be impressed by the 
quality, professionalism and loyalty displayed 
by our people. We will return this faith with 
appropriate investment in our people. Given we 
work in some of the most deprived communities 
in the UK, we take our responsibilities regarding 
employment extremely seriously. We have 
208 people enrolled in Apprenticeship and 
Job Experience programmes within Mears. 
We are proud of the many practical and 
local opportunities we are able to create 
in these challenging times. 
Positive outlook
Both social housing and care are robust defensive 
sectors where spend is largely non-discretionary. 
We continue to place great emphasis on winning 
good quality contracts that can provide clear and 
sustainable margins, whilst at the same time 
providing a first class service and value offering for 
our clients. We will continue to differentiate ourselves 
through financial robustness, tenant-centric 
customer service and proposition innovation 
developed in partnership with our customers. 
We expect our Social Housing business will 
grow through further contract wins, underpinned 
by market-leading service delivery and, where 
appropriate, regional in-fill acquisitions. In our Care 
business we will seek acquisitions that increase 
our ability to respond to growing opportunities 
from health and social care outsourcing and 
implementation of new localised commissioning 
models. We will look to enhance and broaden our 
offering through partnerships and acquisitions.
I look forward to bringing you news of further 
success during the coming year.
Bob Holt
bob.holt@mearsgroup.co.uk
Chairman
27 March 2012
7.50p
Total dividend
2010: 6.75p
+11%
£2.9bn
Order book
2010: £2.7bn
+7%
“ We will seek acquisitions 
that increase our ability 
to respond to growing 
opportunities from health 
and social care outsourcing 
and implementation of new 
localised commissioning 
models. We will look to 
enhance further and 
broaden our offering 
through partnerships 
and acquisitions.”
Care and Support 06 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Our markets
We will continue to differentiate ourselves through financial 
robustness, tenant-centric customer service and proposition 
innovation developed in partnership with our clients.
Growth drivers and opportunities
A unique market position.
Services integration 
and bundling
Landlord/Council 
consolidation
Demographics
Scotland and Wales 
expansion
Reduction in key 
competitors
Rent increases and 
Housing Revenue 
Account reform
Demand for social 
dwellings exceeds supply
More homes being built
Green refurbishments
Social Housing
Care at home 
is usually most 
cost effective
NHS and Social 
Care integration
Prevention agenda
Outsourcing 
in-house services
Importance of scale
Care and 
Support 07 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
How we partner with these markets
Care and Support
£108.5m
Care and Support revenue (£m)
18%
Care and Support revenue (%)
18
Within Care and Support, we see opportunities in the planned reform of 
the health and social care system, in improved commissioning approaches 
and in the general consolidation of the market towards larger, more 
efficient suppliers. We believe the move towards personalisation plays 
to our service quality strength, as does the opportunity created by this 
for more integrated housing and care services.
We will continue to lead this sector through: 
//  Integrating our care and housing services to give a unique and excellent 
service to vulnerable people 
//  Engaging with political stakeholders to ensure that policy creates 
opportunity to improve the service to the vulnerable 
//  Rolling out our new Care IT platform, which will improve the efficiency 
of our service delivery 
//  Maintaining our investment in the training and development of staff 
at all levels 
Social Housing
£415.0m
Social Housing revenue (£m)
70%
Social Housing revenue (%)
70 
Within Social Housing, opportunities for greater local investment in stock 
have been created by the reform of the Housing Revenue Account. The 
Government has also increased the incentives to build new stock to help 
address the huge backlog in demand for Social Homes. We have seen 
weakness in our direct competitors, which has helped improve our already 
good bid win rates, with an increasing demand from Social Landlords for 
innovative solutions given their financial pressures.
We will continue to lead this sector through: 
//  Innovating our services around the customer building on the already 
80% of tenants who rate our service as excellent 
//  Making a positive contribution to local communities in terms of 
employment and training, tackling fuel poverty and building social inclusion 
//  Addressing new opportunities in the environmental space and with 
Social Landlords looking for new ways to meet the financial challenges 
facing them 
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
415.0
379.4
355.3
282.0
205.6
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
108.5
100.4
60.1
54.6
28.7
+9% +8% 08 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Chief Executive’s review
“ We have focused on further enhancing our market‑ leading bidding and service 
delivery capabilities through both senior management recruitment and training 
and process improvement.”
In summary
Social Housing
The Social Housing business has performed well, 
reporting growth of 9%. The Social Housing operating 
margin reported a small reduction to 5.8% (2010: 6.0%).
Care and Support
The Care division reported growth of 8%. The operating 
margin has increased to 8.0% (2010: 7 .5%). The growth 
in margin has been achieved through identifying further 
synergies together with a change in sales mix as the 
division commenced delivering more acute and higher 
margin services.
Other Services
Other Services predominantly comprises the M&E 
operation. This division has experienced a significant 
upturn in activity over the year with revenues increasing 
48%. Whilst the trading environment remains competitive 
and is expected to continue to be so in the short term, 
the division has full visibility of forecast revenues for 
the 2012 year and is already focused at developing 
the order book for 2013. 
David Miles / Chief Executive Officer
Group performance
I am pleased to report a year of significant 
progress across the Group in what has been a 
challenging year. We have seen the Group further 
consolidate its market-leading positions in 
both the Social Housing and Care sectors. The 
continued focus on providing first class value for 
money customer service through our partnership 
ethos has once again been rewarded with 
considerable new contract bidding success. 
Group revenues increased by 12% to £589.0m. 
The Group’s overall operating margin reduced from 
6.0% to 5.7% predominantly driven by a shift in the 
sales mix with our lower margin Other Services 
division having a larger share of the whole. This 
is reviewed in greater detail below.
Social Housing – performance
I am delighted that our Social Housing division 
continues to report improving service delivery 
notwithstanding the high standards already being 
achieved. The proportion of customers rating our 
service as excellent stands at 80% (2010: 79%). 
Typically others in the sector measure only customer 
satisfaction whereas our drive has always been 
for excellence. We also had the lowest ever level 
of complaints as a percentage of work carried 
out at 0.30% (2010: 0.32%). Service quality remains 
our key differentiator. Whilst I am delighted at the 
strong performance delivered in terms of both 
new contract bidding and ultimately the financial 
outputs, it is important to remember that it is service 
quality that has always underpinned our success.
The Social Housing business has performed 
well, reporting revenue growth of 9%. As expected, 
we have seen a reduction of £31.5m in our capital 
projects revenues as the Decent Homes programme 
moves towards its natural conclusion. This masks the 
continued strong growth within our core maintenance 
activities which registered an increase of 14%. We 
would anticipate a final reduction of around £30m 
from Decent Homes revenue in 2012. We remain 
optimistic that we can continue to deliver solid 
double-digit organic growth in both the short 
and medium term.
The Social Housing bid pipeline remains robust, 
which further supports our confidence that 
we will continue to deliver strong growth in our 
core Maintenance business. The impact of the 
acquisitions of Jackson Lloyd and the home 
improvement agencies added £20.3m to our 
Maintenance revenues. The contribution to 
Group revenues through the relationships 
acquired with the Bristol Social Housing 
division of Rok contributed £5.3m to our 
Projects revenue. 
At a divisional level, operating profit is reported 
before amortisation, exceptional items and share 
option costs. The Government’s announcement 
in October 2011 to significantly reduce both the 
level and the timing of the PV feed-in tariff was 
extremely disappointing. The Board considered 
that the prudent course of action was to cease 
these activities immediately. This resulted in 
the write off of costs relating to the site set-up, 
system design and installation amounting 
to £2.0m. This cost has been excluded from 
the Group’s headline financial performance 
indicators and is categorised as exceptional.
Significant growth opportunities.
£m
Social
Housing total
Core
maintenance
Capital
projects
2010 revenue 379.4 289.0 90.4 
Impact of 2011 acquisitions 25.6 20.3 5.3 
Decent Homes expiry (31.5) — (31.5)
Organic growth in core maintenance 41.5 41.5 — 
2011 revenue 415.0 350.8 64.2 
Organic growth 14%  09 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
The Social Housing operating profit increased to 
£23.9m (2010: £22.9m), with the operating margin 
reporting a small reduction to 5.8% (2010: 6.0%). 
The continuing reduction in works relating to 
Decent Homes does inevitably add a challenge 
to margin in both 2011 and 2012, given that these 
contracts generated a solid margin and are being 
replaced by revenues that, through their early 
stages, will generate a reduced margin. Typically 
the Group anticipates a low margin from a new 
contract during its mobilisation phase, a time when 
it is critical to ensure that the necessary processes 
are put in place while at the same time focusing 
on excellent customer service. It is important to 
note that Mears does not capitalise any of these 
start-up costs and the losses associated with 
new mobilisations are fully expensed in the period. 
Whilst there have always been competitors with a 
greater appetite for revenue growth at the expense 
of margin, we remain highly selective and there 
is no shortage of opportunities where potential 
clients are willing to focus on quality and not 
simply the price paid to Mears. The high number 
of recent contract successes will provide the 
foundations for delivering robust growth in 2012. 
The first quarter of 2012 will see the most intense 
period of new contract mobilisation in our history 
with five significant new contracts due to start 
on or around 1 April 2012 with an annual value 
of £50m. We continue to invest heavily in our 
infrastructure to ensure that we can deliver on 
these new contracts whilst maintaining the high 
quality of our overall service delivery.
£589.0m
Group revenue
2010: £523.9m
+12%
Significant growth opportunities.
In the last twelve months we have been awarded new social housing contracts valued 
at £590m (including extensions) representing 43% by value of all contracts bid in the last 
twelve months. The key contract awards, which are all due to commence in 2012, are 
detailed below: 
Barnet Homes 
A ten-year contract with Barnet Homes. The contract is valued at £69m over the 
ten-year period to provide responsive repairs, void maintenance and cleaning services 
to approximately 11, 100 properties.
Waverley Borough Council
A seven-year contract valued at £52m over the initial seven-year period to provide 
responsive repairs, voids, capital works, aids and adaptations services. There is an 
option to extend the contract for a further seven years, taking the total opportunity 
to £104m. Waverley owns and manages in excess of 5,000 properties in Surrey. 
Home Group
A seven-year contract with Home Group to cover properties in their South West region. 
The contract is worth £35m for the initial seven-year term and there is an option to extend 
for a further two years. We will be providing responsive repairs, voids, gas servicing and 
planned maintenance services. Home Group owns and manages circa 3,200 properties 
in their South West region.
Tamworth Borough Council
A five-year contract to provide responsive repairs and void maintenance, together with 
a range of reinvestment works. The contract is valued at £40m over the initial five-year 
period and includes an option to extend for a further two years, giving a total contract 
value of £56m including extensions. We have been appointed as sole partner to deliver 
these services to 4,500 properties.
Gateshead Council
A three-year partnership contract to provide responsive repairs, void services, gas 
servicing, cyclical maintenance and adaptations services. The contract is valued at 
£60m for the initial three-year period, with an option to extend for a further two years, 
giving a total contract value of £100m including extensions. We have been appointed 
as sole partner to deliver these services to 21,000 properties.
Our new contract successes have increased our Social Housing order book to £2.4 billion. 
Our bid pipeline remains robust and in excess of £3.0 billion, with the immediate bidding 
opportunity for contracts due to start over the course of the next twelve months in 
excess of £2.0 billion.
Social Housing – new contract bidding 10 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Chief Executive’s review: Our strategy
Our strategic goals.
We have a clear and effective strategy to strengthen and 
leverage our two existing growth platforms of Social Housing 
and Care and Support.
Our mission is to be the market 
leader in transforming the social 
housing and care and support 
services environment, improving 
homes, improving neighbourhoods 
and improving people’s lives.
Making a positive 
difference through 
our differentiated, 
tenant‑centric 
service delivery.
Quality leadership
A customer ‑ 
centric model
Secure market‑ leading performance
Quality service yields 
competitive advantage 
The success of Mears is 
intrinsically linked to maintaining 
quality leadership in both our 
markets. For us, quality is a 
factor not only of direct customer 
satisfaction but also of the broader 
contributions we make to the 
communities in which we work 
Putting our residents first 
All our services will be designed 
around the direct input of tenants 
and service users. Whether it’s the 
services we offer or the training we 
give to staff, our first thought will 
be the needs of our customers
Integrated in‑ house IT and 
financial management for 
optimum performance  
Mears robust and sustainable 
performance is built on a bedrock 
of first-rate, in-house developed 
IT management systems, robust 
financial controls and an experienced 
management team  
What this means 11 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
How we’re doing it Our goals moving forward Key measures
//  Gaining external and internal recognition 
//  Creating trusted partnerships for the long term 
//  Being willing to share value 
//  Focusing on quality with sustainable margins 
//  Benchmarking ourselves versus other sectors 
as well as our own
//  Continuing to deliver a Serving Communities 
plan in every locality in which we work 
//  Integrating our care and repair services 
//  Creating apprenticeships and work 
opportunities 
//  Putting residents at the front end of our 
service design 
//  Ensuring timely and focused KPI management 
and reporting 
//  Providing strong in-house IT development 
team giving market-leading IT capability 
//  Managing supply chain through 
key partnerships 
//  Focusing on fast and efficient contact 
mobilisation capability 
//  To achieve stretch customer satisfaction 
target that 80% of tenants regard our 
service as excellent 
//  To exceed regulatory expectations 
within Care and Support as defined 
by Care Quality Commission (CQC) 
//  To have market-leading contract 
retention levels 
//  To further develop our leading approach 
to Serving Communities 
//  To demonstrate and deliver the benefits 
of integrating Repairs and Care services 
//  To build networks of residents across 
the country to ensure best practice 
is transferred to the benefit of all
//  To continue to establish our 
market-leading position 
//  To maintain our longstanding delivery 
on margin and cash 
//  To successfully roll out Mears Care IT system 
//  To continue excellent compliance with 
regulatory frameworks 
Percentage of people rating 
service as excellent 
Customer complaints 
New contract bidding success rate 
Contract retention levels 
Customer satisfaction 
levels where our services 
are integrated 
Number of community projects 
carried out 
Number of apprenticeships and 
job experience opportunities 
Levels of waste recycled 
Revenue growth
Operating margins
Profit to cash conversion 
Normalised diluted earnings 
per share  12 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Chief Executive’s review continued
Care and Support – performance
The Care division reported growth of 8% with 
revenues increasing to £108.5m (2010: £100.4m). 
This growth in Care revenues includes the full-year 
impact of the acquisition of Supporta plc, which 
was acquired in January 2010, and the revenues 
acquired from Choices Community Care (in 
administration) which came online in August 2011. 
The underlying organic growth was 2%. Whilst the 
level of organic growth is well below our stated 
target of double-digit growth, the continuing 
improvement in operating margin is particularly 
pleasing in a sector which continues to see such 
an important service procured predominantly on 
price. The operating margin has increased to 8.0% 
(2010: 7.5%). The growth in margin has been 
achieved through identifying further synergies 
together with a change in sales mix as the division 
has commenced delivering more acute and 
higher-margin services. I am delighted at the 
performance of our Care division in terms of 
the quality of service delivery together with 
its strong financial performance.
Care remains an environment where services 
continue to be purchased predominantly on price. 
We remain optimistic that this will change over 
the medium term. It is a fine balance between 
growing our top line whilst at all times protecting 
our operating margin. I do believe at times we have 
been a little too risk averse when bidding for new 
Care contract opportunities and this is an area that 
is under constant review. Certainly as we start to 
offer more acute services, this will provide more 
flexibility in terms of a growth and margin trade-off. 
I continue to believe that double-digit organic 
growth in Care is a very achievable target. 
In Care, our new contract bidding success rate (by value) is 70% of all contracts bid 
for in the last twelve-month period amounting to a total value of £70m.
This once again reflects the ongoing trends in awarding consolidating contracts to 
providers with an excellent quality reputation and a capability to deliver against the 
emerging personalisation agenda. The most significant new contract awards include 
the following:
Wirral Council
The most significant single award has been with Wirral Council. The contract has an 
expected value of £14m with a term of five years. Wirral Council is an existing Mears 
Care client and, having retained our existing business, we added further specialist 
services, which is representative of our strategy to increase work in the higher-end 
care areas.
Sefton Council
The five-year contract with Sefton Council has an estimated value of £7m with 
an estimated volume of 2,300 hours per week with Mears being named one of 
four providers.
Liverpool City Council
The three-year contract with Liverpool City Council has an estimated value of £3.5m. 
Of the eight existing main providers for Liverpool, Mears is one of only three that have 
been retained. The estimated volume is 1,900 hours per week, which represents an 
increase on existing work levels. 
Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council
The three-year contract with Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council has an estimated 
value of £5.8m. This contract award represents a key existing contract retention.
South Gloucestershire Council
A contract with South Gloucestershire Council for the provision of extra care and support 
services at a newly built extra care scheme which will be home to older people and those 
with learning disabilities, physical disabilities, mental health, sensory impairment, dementia, 
alcohol/substance misuse issues and those with HIV. The five-year contract is valued 
at £3m.
Care and Support – new contract bidding 13 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
“ Whilst I am delighted at the strong performance delivered 
in terms of both new contract bidding and ultimately the 
financial outputs, it is service quality that has always 
underpinned our success.”
Our current focus is to complete the roll-out of 
our new Care IT platform. The IT development 
was completed during 2011 using the skills and 
experience learnt from the Social Housing division 
to generate opportunities for efficiencies for both 
ourselves and our clients and provide significant 
competitive advantage. We remain determined to 
reinvest those savings into our care workforce who 
provides quality care services for a relatively low 
wage and remain undervalued when considering 
the responsibility and social contribution of 
their roles.
Equally important is Mears new partnership with 
Tunstall for the implementation of telecare and 
telehealth systems within the home environment. 
Telecare and telehealth, when combined with 
effective personal care and support, can both 
improve service and reduce costs. The results 
of the Department of Health study into the use 
of telecare and telehealth were extremely positive. 
Through the Mears partnership with Tunstall, we 
are already implementing the largest telecare 
project in the UK in Birmingham, across an 
anticipated 24,000 homes, and we see an 
acceleration of these opportunities through 
2012 and 2013.
Other Services – performance
Mears’ Other Services predominantly comprises its 
Mechanical & Electrical (M&E) operation. This division 
has experienced a significant upturn in activity over 
the year with revenues increasing 48% to £65.4m. 
Whilst the trading environment remains competitive 
and is expected to continue to be so in the short 
term, the division does have full visibility of forecast 
revenues for the 2012 year and is already focused 
on developing the order book for 2013. Whilst it is 
pleasing to report this significant increase in new 
works, the M&E environment is currently highly 
competitive and pricing is keen. I am delighted at the 
performance of the M&E operation and it is a credit 
to the quality of the team that it has continued to 
generate profits and meet budget expectations 
in what has been a challenging period.
Management team 
Since my appointment as Chief Executive, I have 
focused on further enhancing our market-leading 
operational capabilities through both senior 
management recruitment and training and process 
improvement. We have the right management team 
in place to take our business forward and capitalise 
on the many opportunities in our growth markets. 
Safety, health and environment (SHE)
Another great year for Mears: accidents rates 
down, recycling rates increased, waste costs 
reduced and quality standards introduced across 
the group to improve standards further. This has 
been complemented with improved training and 
committed management teams. This has been 
further affirmed by RoSPA with 2012 being the 
tenth consecutive year in which Mears have been 
awarded the Gold Award and also achieved the 
18001 accreditation.
Our environmental performance continues to 
improve. In 2011 we teamed up with our waste 
partner Network Waste and in the last 10 months 
we reduced our overall cost for disposing of waste by 
10% and improved our recycling from 76% to 88%. 
I hope to be able to report further improvements 
in a year from now.
Our environmental performance continues to 
improve. In 2011 we teamed up with our waste 
partner Network Waste and in the last ten months 
we reduced our overall cost for disposing of waste by 
10% and improved our recycling from 76% to 88%. 
I hope to be able to report further improvements 
in a year from now.
Our training commitments continued in 2011 
including further refresher training for all operatives 
and carers. Specific on-the-job training included 
scaffold, lifting and working at height training 
and these are all contributing to our improved 
safety performance.
Training and development
We are delighted that through periods of employee 
growth we have retained our accreditation with 
Investors in People. We have opted for annual 
assessment and our 2011 report provided very 
positive feedback. In addition to this we now carry 
out annual employee satisfaction surveys which 
provide valuable information.
In 2011 our apprentice and trainee numbers 
increased by 95, 13 of which transferred from 
other companies as a result of contract wins and 
the remaining were newly created opportunities. 
At the end of 2011 we launched our apprentice 
programme in Care. During the same year we 
retained 85% of apprentices and trainees that 
had completed their training programme.
In January 2011 we launched a new leadership 
training programme, which 76 senior managers 
completed. The results have been positive with 
all managers stating that they felt more confident, 
particularly in respect of people management 
and presentations. On average every employee 
receives five days of training per year in areas 
of people management, health and safety, 
customer services and trade skills.
Our communities
We have operations throughout the UK and all 
our branches are dedicated to helping to improve 
people’s lives. We work in some of the most socially 
deprived areas of the country and so we feel a 
strong sense of responsibility toward the wider 
community. Helping a community thrive increases 
the quality of life for residents and supports 
community cohesion and development.
David Miles
david.miles@mearsgroup.co.uk
Chief Executive Officer
27 March 2012
£33.6m
Group operating profit*
2010: £31.3m
+7%
*  Before exceptional items and pre 
amortisation of acquisition intangibles. 14 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Market development review
“ Changes in both our core growth sectors of Social Housing and Care continue to be driven 
by Government legislation, demographics and austerity measures. We see these changes 
as extremely positive and believe they will provide further growth opportunities.”
Changes in both our core growth sectors of 
Social Housing and Care continue to be driven 
by Government legislation, demographics and 
austerity measures. We see these changes as 
extremely positive and believe they will provide 
further growth opportunities.
Social Housing
Social Housing has several key growth drivers 
including the continued consolidation both in 
terms of the number of contractors and in the 
number of Registered Social Landlords. This 
trend is observed within Housing Associations 
and Councils and in turn leads to increasing 
opportunities for organisations such as Mears 
who operate at a local level but who bring the 
economies of a national player.
The public services white paper, published by 
the Cabinet Office in July last year, re-affirmed 
the Government’s guiding principles for public 
services as being choice for public service users, 
decentralised decision making, diversity of supply, 
fair access to services and that public services 
should be accountable to users and taxpayers. 
We support fully this development as it plays to our 
strengths of working with clients and service users 
alike to maximise the positive impact of what we do 
whilst managing our costs very tightly. For Local 
Authorities 2012 will see the management and 
finance of council house operations being brought 
onto a similar footing as housing associations. This 
decentralised decision making, which applies from 
April 2012, will put Local Authorities be in the driving 
seat for determining the future of the local housing 
offer they will make to their community. For housing 
associations we see 2012 as a year of consolidation 
in respect of the application of the new affordable 
rent regime which allows uplift in rents on new 
tenancies to 80% of market rents to assist in 
the finance of new, much-needed social housing. 
Most landlords appear to be implementing rental 
increases of around 8% for this year. For all social 
landlords and for the majority of tenants the 
changes to the housing benefit arrangements, 
still being finalised, will require careful consideration 
as they come on stream. As in previous years we 
will be very careful which opportunities we pursue 
to ensure that we maintain our commitment to 
high quality, reliable services to both existing 
and new clients and residents alike. 
The ongoing mortgage lending constraints 
and the broader pressures on the economy 
are reinforcing the demand for affordable rented 
accommodation whether in the social or the private 
sector. Everywhere we work, demand for social 
housing outstrips supply especially where the 
costs of buying, or sometimes renting privately, 
are well beyond local wage levels.
This year will see the first of the new affordable rent 
homes become available as the Government’s new 
scheme for the production of new social housing 
comes into being. It will also see, we believe, more 
social housing landlords looking to add to the supply 
of affordable homes through new and innovative 
approaches being adopted by Local Authorities and 
Housing Associations alike. The review commissioned 
by the Government into the prospects of increased 
institutional investment in the private rented sector, 
chaired by Sir Adrian Montague, will also be 
worth following.
The service provision connections between housing 
supply, housing management and maintenance, 
personal social care and the provision of health 
services at a local level will all be examined in 
greater detail as everyone strives to minimise waste 
and maximise effectiveness within and between 
each of these service streams. We at Mears will 
ensure that our service complements, wherever 
possible, this new and necessary approach that 
we are beginning to see develop at a local level. 
In line with the Government’s approach to public 
services as set out in its white paper in July we 
expect more diversity in how service packages 
are put together. The financial pressures on public 
service bodies at an individual service, organisation 
or locality level will mean that not only will there be 
traditional opportunities for service provision but an 
increasingly wide range of bespoke arrangements.
The Government will finalise its approach to tackling 
fuel poverty and carbon reduction challenges in 
housing in the first quarter of 2012. The flagship 
policy for this is the Green Deal, which will include 
a new Energy Company Obligation (ECO), to replace 
the existing CESP and CERT schemes. ECO for social 
housing will largely focus on hard-to-treat properties, 
Responding to the needs of our markets. 15 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
for example where the property has solid walls. 
The broader Green Deal enables householders 
to receive loans to fund a wide range of energy 
efficiency improvement measures. The energy 
savings from the improvements made have to 
exceed the cost of the improvements. No up front 
investment is made by the householder/tenant, 
with the cost of the improvements being paid 
back directly through future energy bills. Uniquely, 
the loan is linked to the property and will pass to 
the next resident if the initial resident moves on. 
Social Landlords are being encouraged by central 
Government to become Green Deal providers. 
Mears will look closely at opportunities when 
the details of the scheme are finalised.
We will be careful in our selection of opportunities, 
as we have been in past years, but will also want 
to expand our repertoire where we can add to our 
portfolio of approaches. On occasion we can see 
this being joint approaches with other strategic 
partners, especially where we have strong working 
arrangements in place and there is a clear synergy in 
our long-term view for a sustainable service provision.
Although some of these opportunities will 
continue to be single-entity arrangements at local, 
regional and national levels, we anticipate more 
opportunities being multi-service, multi-client based 
which may be predominantly locally co-located as 
service commissioners work on an increasingly 
collaborative basis. 
Our community approach: Wirral Care and healthcare partnership 
Making a 
positive 
difference 
to each 
individual we 
work with.
Before they are discharged 
Mears assessors visit the patient in 
hospital to ensure all the necessary 
information and paperwork is in 
place. This also serves to establish 
understanding and communication 
between the care teams, the ward 
managers and the PCT . The success 
of this scheme is facilitating a more 
integrated service between local 
care and healthcare services.
Mears Wirral is running a Rapid Access contract with Wirral PCT to provide 
an emergency cover care service to get people who are fit for discharge 
home from hospital without delay. The service is for older people or those 
with a physical or mental disability. Mears commits to providing emergency 
care calls within 24 hours of discharge and for a period of up to two weeks 
until permanent care provision is in place. 16 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Market development review continued
Care and Support 
The long-term opportunities for Mears within Care 
and Support continue to be excellent. The ageing 
population and the fundamental desire of people 
to stay in their own home remain the foundations 
for this sector. Economic necessity is of course the 
third driver, which has led to never-seen-before 
levels of political activity in 201 1, which will continue 
into 2012 with the anticipated publishing of the 
Government’s white paper on the future of social 
care in the spring of 2012.
The reform of social care is also being set during 
a period of continuing political turmoil around the 
future of the NHS. There is all-round agreement 
that there needs to be shift from primary care to 
care in the community, but the pathway for the 
implementation of this policy remains disputed. 
We are now seeing greater joint working and 
commissioning between NHS Authorities and 
social care at a local level but the pace of this 
has been slower than hoped. Through acquisitions 
such as Choices in 2011, Mears is increasing its 
capability to handle more complex cases as a 
means to be well positioned for emerging 
opportunities in this area.
The Dillnot Review commissioned by the 
Department of Health last year to look at the 
future funding of adult care reported in the 
autumn. If accepted in full, this would lead to an 
additional initial spend on Care and Support of 
£1.3 billion, rising to as much as £3 billion in future 
years. Realistically, the Government may well scale 
back on this ambition within the Spring white 
paper but the direction of travel should be positive. 
The Government faces significant lobbying from 
numerous organisations concerning the state of 
care, most recently from the Equality and Human 
Rights Commission report of November 2011. 
Each of the scheme’s 56 residents has 
their own tenancy with light and airy 
rooms that are purpose-designed 
with, for example, wheelchair-friendly 
doorways and wet rooms. Communal 
facilities include a hairdresser, a 
restaurant and social areas for 
clubs and events.
Colebrooke House is the first 
scheme of its kind in the borough 
and is designed to allow its residents 
to live independently in their own 
homes with different levels of care 
support from Mears depending 
on each individual’s needs.
Colebrooke House, which is situated in the grounds of the Royal Military 
Academy in Greenwich, is a groundbreaking Extra Care Housing Scheme 
(ECHS) with its care and repair services both delivered by Mears. 
Mears provides the on-site care with the building maintenance being 
undertaken by our London and Quadrant operation based in Greenwich.
Making a 
positive 
difference 
through the 
provision of 
an integrated 
service.
Our community approach: Greenwich ECHS Care and Repair 17 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
“ The care and support system, as well as the whole healthcare system, is going through 
a period of change, the like of which has never been seen before. This does of course 
present short‑ term challenges to Mears but we have built a capability that is unique 
in the market and one that is very well placed to meet the longer ‑ term opportunities 
that exist.” 
Proposals to replace previous quality rating 
systems and new advice mechanisms are in 
development. Mears has been active in providing 
practical suggestions to all political parties on how 
to cost effectively improve the quality of care, in 
particular around opportunities to link together the 
care of the individual with the care of the home in 
which they live.
One of these opportunities is for utilising more 
technology in the support of care delivery within 
the home. Mears’ new integrated Care 
management system will speed up work 
allocation, provide better controls and reduce the 
significant amount of unnecessary paperwork 
within the system. Equally important is Mears’ 
new partnership with Tunstall, for the implementation 
of telecare and telehealth systems within the 
home environment. Telecare and telehealth, 
when combined with effective personal care and 
support, can both improve service and reduce 
costs. The results of the Department of Health 
study into the use of telecare and telehealth were 
extremely positive indicating that a 14% reduction 
in A&E admissions through to a startling 45% 
reduction in mortality rates could be achieved. 
Through the Mears partnership with Tunstall, 
we are already implementing the largest 
telecare project in the UK in Birmingham, 
across an anticipated 24,000 homes, and we 
see an acceleration of these opportunities 
through 2012 and 2013. 
The connection between housing quality and 
speed at which care requirements develop is 
strong and one which we observe through all of 
our operations. Whether that be a care worker 
noticing a faulty kettle plug or a joiner being told 
about an older neighbour who has not been seen 
for a couple of days, our front line staff are at this 
interface every day.
We, in response, take our responsibilities seriously, 
using our knowledge, experience and technology 
to bring added value to our work with the elderly 
whether in a repair, care or home improvement 
agency setting. Mears has a unique proposition to 
support people remaining independent in their 
own homes for longer. No other care company is 
also able to provide advice, home adaptations, 
handyperson services, telecare and personal care 
under one roof. Integrated services have real 
potential to save money and help vulnerable 
people to make an informed and better choice as 
to which products and services will help them the 
most.
In summary, the care and support system, as well 
as the whole healthcare system, is going through a 
period of change, the like of which has never been 
seen before. This does of course present short-term 
challenges to Mears but we have built a capability 
that is unique in the market and one that is well 
placed to meet the longer-term opportunities 
that exist.
David Miles
david.miles@mearsgroup.co.uk
Chief Executive Officer
Alan Long
alan.long@mearsgroup.co.uk
Executive Director
27 March 2012 18 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Chief Executive’s review: Key performance indicators
Measuring our progress.
We use the following KPIs to monitor our performance. 
Our strong financial performance is a result of our 
differentiated service delivery.
Service delivery
Delivering to our promises is at the heart of Mears. 
Each of our contracts has specific targets around 
job completion time based on the nature of the 
work. Emergency jobs are typically undertaken 
same day while routine work will be scheduled 
in into overall work plans. Having agreed the 
standards by type of work, it is obviously 
important that we stick to them. 
Jobs completed on time
>92%
92%
Whilst we achieve high levels of service excellence, 
it is important that we monitor carefully the number 
of poor service incidents, that we deal effectively 
with each individual complaint and that we learn 
from underlying trends. We measure the number of 
complaints as a percentage of repair jobs delivered 
in the period.
The sector in general collects customer 
satisfaction data and reports on the percentage 
of customers who rate the service as satisfactory. 
Given that we are service leaders, it is not 
sufficient to benchmark ourselves by these 
standards. Our measurement is based on the 
percentage of people who rate the service as 
excellent. We conduct around 80,000 surveys 
per year by phone and directly with the customer 
via our operatives’ hand-held device (PDAs). 
Percentage of people rating our 
service as excellent
Customer complaints
Why we measure it
>80% <0.30%
Our aim for 2012
80% 0.30%
Outcome
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
80%
77%
78%
75%
72%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
0.30%
0.32%
0.34%
0.37%
0.41%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
92%
91%
92%
89% 88%
We have the best service delivery 19 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
Contract bidding
We tender between £1–2 billion of new opportunities 
each year. The average contract length is around 
six years in length. In order to achieve our organic 
growth forecasts, we monitor the proportion of 
new contracts secured as a proportion of total 
tendered works. 
Included in this performance measure are contract 
retentions on re-bid whilst being awarded contracts 
from new customer relationships are key in order 
to achieve sustained growth.
Social Housing new contract 
success rate
33%
43%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
43%
29%
30%
31%
42%
We typically secure long-term contracts with 
our clients. Typically our Social Housing contract 
average six years in duration. Our Care contracts 
are typically shorter at around three years. Our 
order book places an aggregate value of the future 
revenues that have been secured relating to services 
that will be delivered over future financial years. 
We only place a value against orders which are 
contractually secure and where the delivery of the 
works are highly probable. We do not include Social 
Housing framework arrangements within our order 
book as the value is considered uncertain. The order 
book valuation excludes indexation. The order book, 
which includes contract extensions, stretches 
to 2032.
Order book growth (£bn)
+10%
+7%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
2.9%
2.7%
2.0%
1.6%
1.4%
Why we measure it
Our aim for 2012
Outcome
We are recognised as being better, which drives our contract bidding success 
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
93% 93% 
88%
92%
97%
We typically secure long-term contracts with our 
clients, with Social Housing and Care contracts 
on average six years and three years in duration 
respectively. Typically there is a period of around 
three months between the notification of the award 
and commencement. It is therefore imperative that 
at the start of any financial year, a significant 
proportion of that year’s orders are already secured. 
Revenue secured (%)
95%
93% 20 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Chief Executive’s review: Key performance indicators continued
Our strong financial performance 
is a result of our differentiated 
service delivery.
Social Housing operating margin gives a strong 
indication of profitability. We continually monitor 
our operating margin and manage our costs base 
to ensure that our services are delivered efficiently. 
Operating margin is struck before amortisation, 
share-based payment charges and exceptional 
items. We have consistently delivered a higher 
margin than our competitors. This has been due 
in part to being selective as to which new contract 
opportunities we tender. Our desire is to work with 
clients who focus on quality and value for money, 
and not simply the base price. The margin is also 
an indication as to the quality of our people and 
the quality of our systems.
Social Housing – operating margin
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
+14% +14%
+18%
+29%
+11%
Revenue represents the amounts due for services 
provided during the year. In order to measure 
organic growth, we deduct revenue derived from 
assets that have been acquired. Whilst acquisitions 
form part of our growth aspirations in Social 
Housing, we believe that organic growth gives a 
better indication of business performance, as it 
is a purer aggregation of market growth, success 
in new contract bidding and contract retention. 
We also exclude the impact of revenues from 
the Decent Homes initiative as this area of the 
business is short term in nature. Our key focus 
continues to be our long-term, non-discretionary, 
maintenance revenues. 
Social Housing maintenance revenue 
– organic revenue growth
Why we measure it
+10%
Our aim for 2012
+14%
Outcome
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
5.8%
6.0% 6.0%
6.1% 6.1%
5.8%
5.8%
Financial outputs
Revenue represents the amounts due for goods 
and services provided during the year. Our strategy 
in Care is to grow our existing business organically 
whilst making further strategic acquisitions to 
increase the services that we can offer to our 
clients. Our ambition is to be in a position to provide 
a complete solution for our service users. Typically, 
we look to acquire a small, regional operation that 
possesses a required specialism. We then look to 
use that acquisition as a platform to tender more 
contracts of this nature across the rest of the UK. 
We believe that the revenue growth and operating 
margin performance indicators cannot be considered 
singularly. It is a fine balance between growing the 
top line whilst maintaining our operating margin. 
Whilst revenue growth is a key performance 
measure, the quality of our service delivery and 
our operating margin will always take precedence.
Care and Support – revenue growth
+10%
+8%
2011 2010 2009
+8%
+67%
+10% 21 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
The Care operating margin gives a strong indication 
of profitability. We continually monitor our operating 
margin and manage our costs base to ensure that 
our services are delivered efficiently. Operating 
margin is struck before amortisation, share-based 
payment charges and exceptional items. Care 
remains an environment where services continue 
to be purchased predominantly on price. We believe 
therefore that the revenue growth and operating 
margin performance indicators cannot be considered 
singularly. It is a fine balance between growing the 
top line whilst at all times protecting our operating 
margin. The acquisition of the Supported Living 
division of Choices Care provides the Group the 
capabilities to deliver more acute services that 
typically command a higher margin. 
Care and Support – operating margin
8.5%
8.0%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
11.2%
8.2%
13.8%
15.5%
20.3%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
85%
89%
103%
43%
93%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
8.0%
7.5%
5.2%
5.6%
6.4%
Why we measure it
Our aim for 2012
The efficiency with which the Group manages 
working capital remains a cornerstone of our 
business. The Group closely monitors the conversion 
of profit into cash. The key measure is cash inflow 
from operating activities as a proportion of EBITA.
Profit to cash conversion
80%
85%
Normalised earnings are stated before exceptional 
costs and exclude the amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles together with an adjustment to reflect 
a full tax charge. We believe that a normalised 
diluted EPS measure gives a true assessment of 
operational performance, the analysis of trends 
over time, the comparison of different businesses 
and the projection of future performance. The 
number of shares in issue allows for the potentially 
diluting impact of outstanding share options.
Normalised diluted EPS
+8%
+11%
Outcome 22 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Financial review
Robust financial control and risk management.
Andrew Smith / Finance Director
“ The Group has completed a refinancing of its banking facilities. This provides significant additional 
funding capacity, lower debt pricing and higher operational flexibility. Our ability to achieve such 
a refinancing in the current economic environment is a testament to the continued strong 
performance of the business and the strength of the longstanding banking relationship.”
Financial performance
This Financial Review provides further key 
information in respect of the financial performance 
and financial position of the Group, to the extent 
that this is not already covered within the Chief 
Executive’s Review. See table opposite.
Exceptional items
Costs of £3.1m (2010: £2.5m) were considered to 
be non-recurring and exceptional in nature. Notably:
//  The Government announced a significant 
reduction to both the level and timing of the 
PV Feed-in Tariff. The Board took the swift 
decision to terminate those activities resulting 
in the write off of costs relating to the site 
set-up, system design and installation 
amounting to £2.0m. This cost has been 
identified as a non-recurring item and as such 
has been adjusted for within the Group’s 
headline financial performance indicators.
//  During the year, the Group completed a 
refinancing of its bank facilities. The costs 
attributed to the arrangement of the new facility 
of around £1.6m were capitalised and are to 
be amortised over the life of the facility. The 
exceptional cost of £1. 1m relating to the carrying 
value of the transaction costs of the previous 
facility together with the costs relating to its 
termination will be treated as a non-recurring 
item and expensed in the current year.
Amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles
A charge for amortisation of acquisition intangibles 
of £7 .8m (2010: £10.1m) arose in the period. The 
majority of this charge is in respect of the Group’s 
Care division and represents the amortisation of 
the identified intangible assets acquired in respect 
of a number of Care acquisitions. In addition, the 
Social Housing division has completed a number 
of small acquisitions, typically of distressed 
businesses, over recent years. The decrease in 
the charge in the year reflects the Group’s prudent 
approach in respect of identifying intangibles and 
their subsequent release. In 2010, the intangibles 
identified in respect of the acquisition of certain 
trade and assets of Connaught Partnership Limited 
and Rok Building Limited were written off entirely 
in the period resulting in a particularly high charge 
in that year.
Net finance costs
The finance cost in respect of bank borrowings 
was £2.4m (2010: £2.0m). The increase in interest 
cost reflects an increase in the average core debt 
following the acquisitions of Supporta plc, Jackson 
Lloyd Limited and Choice Care. The net interest 
credit in respect of the defined benefit pension 
scheme was £0.3m (2010: £0.3m charge).
Tax expense
A tax charge of £3.7m has been provided 
(2010: £1.6m). The effective current corporation 
tax rate recognised in the income statement 
before adjustments for deferred tax is 22.1% 
(2010: 14.3%). The effective current corporation 
tax rate was unusually low in the prior year 
due to a deferred tax credit in respect of the 
amortisation of acquisition intangibles of £2.8m 
and a non-taxable pension benefit of £3.7m. 
Historically the Group’s effective tax rate is lower 
than the headline rate of corporation tax, which 
for 2011 is 26.5%, given the Group receives 
a corporation tax deduction in respect of the 
exercise of share options. It is anticipated that 
this trend will continue.
Earnings per share (EPS)
Normalised basic EPS increased by 8.8% to 27 . 16p 
(2010: 24.96p). The normalised diluted EPS, which 
allows for the potential diluting impact of outstanding 
share options, was up 1 1.3% to 26.01p (2010: 23.38p). 
Normalised earnings are stated before exceptional 
costs and exclude the amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles together with an adjustment to reflect 
a full tax charge of 26.5% (2010: 28.0%). We believe 
that this normalised diluted EPS measure better 
allows the assessment of operational performance, 
the analysis of trends over time, the comparison 
of different businesses and the projection of 
future performance. See table opposite.
“ The Board remains confident 
in the future opportunities 
in its growth markets and 
consequently expects to be 
able to continue to follow a 
progressive dividend policy.”
Dividend 23 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
Dividend policy
The Board remains confident in the future 
opportunities in its growth markets and consequently 
expects to be able to continue to follow a progressive 
dividend policy. The Board has recommended a final 
dividend of 5.35p per share which, combined with the 
interim dividend, gives a total dividend for the year of 
7 .50p (2010: 6.75p), an 11.1% increase. The dividend 
is payable on 3 July 2012 to shareholders on the 
register on 15 June 2012. The dividend is covered 
3.5 times by underlying earnings per share.
Cash performance
The efficiency with which the Group manages 
working capital remains a cornerstone of our 
business. The Group’s conversion of profit for the 
year before tax and pre amortisation to cash in 
the period was 91.1% (2010: 96.7%). The Group has 
consistently set high standards of working capital 
management and high levels of conversion of profit 
before tax into cash with an average conversion rate 
during the last five years of 84.3% against its stated 
target of 80%. Over the same period, the business 
has more than doubled through organic growth. 
Our net debt position at 31 December 2011 was 
£13.4m (2010: £12.2m). Whilst the year end cash 
position was pleasing, typically the accounting 
period end reports a low debt balance when 
compared to the rest of the year. A far more 
important metric is the Group’s daily net debt 
balances which provide a better indication 
of working capital management. The average 
net debt over the year amounted to £58.5m 
(2010: £48.5m). This increase is predominantly 
due to the acquisitions completed during 2010 
and 2011 which increased net debt by in excess 
of £35m over the last two years. Given the timing 
of the non-trading outflows, the true underlying 
core debt at the year end is in the region of 
£60m (2010: £59m). We have always been and 
remain conservative in respect of our appetite for 
debt and, whilst the Group has ambitions for making 
acquisitions through 2012, our expectation would be 
to work to a net debt to EBITDA ratio of no greater 
than two times. See table opposite.
£589.0m
Group revenue 
£33.6m
Group operating profit*
Financial performance
2011
£m
2010
£m
Change
%
Group revenue 589.0 523.9 +12%
Operating profit before exceptional items* 33.6 31.3 +7%
Profit before tax and before exceptional items* 31.5 28.9 +9%
Profit before tax* 28.4 26.5 +7%
* Pre amortisation of acquisition intangibles.
Earnings per share (EPS)
2011
p
2010
p
Change
%
Normalised diluted earnings per share* 26.01 23.38 +11%
Dividend per share 7 .50
**
6.75 +11%
* Before exceptional items and pre amortisation of acquisition intangibles and based on a normalised tax charge of 26.5%. 
** Including a proposed final dividend of 5.35p per share.
Cash performance
2011 2010
Cash conversion (PBT)* 91.1% 96.7%
Cash conversion (EBITA)* 84.7% 88.9%
Net debt at balance sheet date £13.4m £12.2m 
Average daily net debt £58.5m £48.5m 
* Cash inflow from operating activities before taxation and before the effect of acquired contracts.
Balance sheet
2011
£m
2010
£m
Change
%
Goodwill and intangible assets 127 .5 124.5
Property, plant and equipment 12.7 12.1 +5%
Inventories 12.5 12.1 +3%
Trade receivables 127 .5 111.6 +14%
Trade payables (104.0) (95.8) +8%
Net debt (13.4) (12.2)
Deferred consideration (2.9) (2.8)
Cash flow hedge (1.7) —
Pension (5.8) (7 .7)
Taxation (0.6) (0.2) 
Total assets 151.8 141.6 
*  Before exceptional items and pre 
amortisation of acquisition intangibles. 24 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Financial review continued
“ The efficiency with which the Group manages working 
capital remains a cornerstone of our business. The Group has 
consistently set high standards of working capital management 
and high levels of conversion of profit into cash.”
Treasury facilities 
The Group has completed a refinancing of its 
banking facilities with a new £120m unsecured 
revolving credit facility and an additional accordion 
mechanism allowing the facility to be increased to 
a maximum of £160m. This provides significant 
additional funding capacity for the Group. The new 
facility will mature in July 2016 and its terms 
include lower debt pricing and higher operational 
flexibility than under the previous facility. This new 
arrangement replaces the Group’s previous £85m 
secured bank facility. Our ability to achieve such a 
refinancing in the current economic environment is 
a testament to the continued strong performance of 
the business and the strength of the longstanding 
relationship we have with both Barclays and HSBC.
Other trading balances
The Group capital expenditure of £4.0m (2010: £2.9m) 
relates to IT hardware, other office equipment 
and the refurbishment of new office premises. 
Predominantly all our plant and machinery is hired 
and motor vehicles are subject to operating leases 
and hence are not included within capital expenditure 
or recognised as an asset within the balance sheet.
A balance of £2.4m (2010: £1.9m) is included within 
non-current trade and other receivables. This relates 
to sales retentions in relation to our M&E activities 
within our Other Services division. This is normal 
practice within that sector, where a small percentage 
of the contract sum is withheld for a short period. 
This is typically settled twelve months after the 
completion of works.
Acquisitions and intangible assets
The value of goodwill and other identified intangibles carried within the balance sheet 
is £127 .5m, of which over three quarters relates to the Group’s Care division. A balance 
of £7 .8m of amortisation was charged to the Income Statement during the period. 
Two acquisitions were completed during the year adding a further £6.3m to intangibles 
and are detailed below:
Acquisition 
Acquisition of certain business assets of Anchor Housing relating 
to its Home Improvement Agencies division
During the period January to April 2011, Mears completed the acquisition of a 
group of home improvement agencies from Anchor Housing for a nominal fee. 
Home improvement agencies are currently contracted by Local Authorities to provide 
primarily home adaptation and handyman services to vulnerable owner-occupiers 
in local communities. We consider this purchase to be an excellent complement 
to our existing operations and one which extends our geographic footprint into 
a number of Local Authorities where we previously had no presence.
Acquisition 
Acquisition of the Supported Living division of Choices Care 
Community Services Limited (‘Choices’), a leading provider 
of social care services in Scotland and the North of England 
The main business of Choices is the provision of a supported living service to adults 
with learning disabilities, autism and mental health needs, in their own homes. Service 
recipients tend to have a more complex care support package than can be seen in the 
more traditional domiciliary care area, due to the higher acuity needs of the individual.
The Board’s strategy is to broaden the diversity of Mears’ care offering and to begin 
supplying services to individuals with higher acuity needs in their own homes. The 
acquisition of Choices fits well with these criteria and is consistent with our strategy 
of targeting growth in higher need care areas.
Mears acquired the trade and certain assets of the Supported Living division for an 
initial cash consideration of £7 .40m, which included a significant refundable deposit 
dependent upon the successful novation of the acquired contracts. Since completion, 
the Group has been repaid a sum of £2.1m in respect of two contracts that were not 
novated, leaving a net consideration paid of £5.3m. 25 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
26.01p
Diluted earnings per share*
7.50p
Dividend per share*
84.7%
Cash conversion (EBITA)*
Trade receivables have increased by 14% to 
£127 .5m (2010: £111.6m), slightly ahead of our 
top-line growth of 12%. Whilst cash inflows within 
our two core sectors are consistent with historical 
sales cycle, cash conversion has been slower within 
our M&E division, in particular in relation to the 
Athletes’ Village project in support of London 2012 
which is now at a practically complete stage. 
Trade payables have increased by 10% to £104.0m 
(2010: £95.8m), which is slightly behind the growth 
in top-line growth. This is in line with our expectations 
given the entire provision of Care services is 
self-delivered, which inevitably means that whilst 
revenue growth is mirrored with an increase in 
trade receivables, it is not supported by a similar 
increase in its outstanding creditor balances.
All costs relating to tender, contract set-up and the 
initial inefficiencies during the period of contract 
mobilisation are written off as they are incurred. 
Total shareholders’ equity rose by £10.2m to 
£151.8m at 31 December 2011. The increase in 
net assets is primarily due to retained profits.
Pensions
The Group participates in a principal Mears Group 
pension scheme together with a further 14 
individual defined benefit schemes where the 
Group has received Admitted Body Status in a 
Local Government pension scheme. At the point 
of tendering for new contract opportunities, the 
Group seeks to minimise its exposure to future 
changes in the required pension contribution rates 
and to future liabilities resulting from scheme deficits.
Net pension charges amounting to £2.4m have 
been made to the income statement (2010: £1.0m 
credit). The current service cost has increased due 
to an increase in membership on the back of new 
contract awards. In the previous year, past service 
cost included a credit relating to the change in the 
measurement of future pension increases being 
linked to CPI rather than RPI. The reduced interest 
charge on the obligation reflects the higher 
expected return on scheme assets.
The latest actuarial valuations for the schemes as 
at 31 December 2011 reported a reduction of the 
pension deficit by £1.9m reducing the carrying 
value of the liability from £7 .7m to £5.8m. This 
reduction is caused by a reduction in the anticipated 
future pension payments. The Group has also 
agreed a repayment plan with the trustees of the 
Mears Group scheme at £0.9m per annum for a 
period of seven years with a view to the scheme 
being fully funded by 2020. See table above.
Mears has reported strong growth over its sixteen 
years as a listed company. Fundamental to this 
success has been our ability to identify and manage 
both risks and opportunities in a constantly changing 
environment. Over the course of 2011, significant 
resource has been directed towards corporate 
governance, with particular focus being given to 
significantly enhancing the Group risk management 
process that will ensure a uniform approach across 
all our businesses to identify and mitigate risk. 
This is covered in greater detail in pages 26 and 27 . 
Andrew Smith
andrew.smith@mearsgroup.co.uk
Finance Director
27 March 2012
Pensions
2011
£m
2010
£m
Income statement – pension costs
Current service cost 2.7 2.4
Past service cost — (3.7)
Interest on obligation (0.3) 0.3
Total defined benefit pension cost charged to the result for year 2.4 (1.0)
Balance sheet – pension liability 5.8 7.7
*   Before exceptional items and pre amortisation 
of acquisition intangibles and based on a 
normalised tax charge of 26.5%.
*  Including a proposed final dividend 
of 5.35p per share.
 *  Cash inflow from operating activities 
before taxation and before the effect 
of acquired contracts. 26 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Risk management
Risk and description
Macroeconomy
Mears’ primary markets are subject to Government legislation and are dependent on 
the political environment, local or national, including public sector policy and funding.
Any changes in policy or legislation that reduce expenditure during the life of contracts 
could have a detrimental affect on the Company’s business. Also other market factors 
could damage business, e.g. economic failures, stock levels.
Reputation
The ultimate success of the Mears Group relies upon maintaining a positive reputation 
in the public and amongst all stakeholders.
Negative actions, behaviour, service and results will damage the business reputation 
and will affect the future of the Mears Group. This includes risk of negative publicity 
from actions of employees and suppliers. 
This could arise, amongst other reasons from inappropriate communications, 
inaccurate client reporting or poor care and poor attention to vulnerable customers.
People
The Mears Group is dependent on the management team and a skilled and motivated 
workforce, otherwise the delivery of business objectives will be jeopardised. 
Mears Group sees sound commercial management of contracts and the business 
as a whole as essential to our objectives.
Management expertise is retained to maintain the right balance between our 
customer-centric culture and our commercial requirements. We always want to provide 
value for money as well as legitimately bill our clients and at the same time achieve 
operating efficiency drawing from best practice.
How we manage risk.
The effective management of risks is a key feature in the continuing 
success of the Mears Group. Our approach is to identify principal 
risks and robustly mitigate the impact of these risks through a Group 
risk management process.
Mitigation
//  Awareness of and responsiveness to market developments, e.g. developing 
managed in-sourcing and JV products to give choice to clients
//  Business strategy – diversity of markets expanding from the original social 
housing sector business
//  Innovation around Government policy, e.g. proactive on tenants’ cash back scheme
//  Pensions policy including client risk share
//  Strong corporate governance
//  Clear communications policy and strategy including cascading team brief and 
Mears Matters
//  Internal auditing of KPI reporting
//  Care risk plan for dealing with vulnerable customers
//  Comprehensive health and safety policy and safe systems of working
//  Compliance management of bribery and corruption legislation, whistleblowing 
policy, internal audit resources
//  Recruitment and selection criteria for all appointments
//  High quality people to be secured and retained in key positions
//  Training programmes supplied and we have Investor in People certification
//  Formal assessment/capability testing for key management appointments
//  Succession planning for key positions
//  Appointment of additional Executive Directors to increase the capacity of the 
Group’s senior management team to cope with existing and new business
//  Business unit budgets and regular monitoring of profit and loss performance and 
cash conversion 
//  Group and divisional risk mitigation plans showing branch and region lines of defence
Liquidity
There is a noticeable increase in client and market focus in the financial strength 
of the companies trading within the Group’s core business sectors due to a number 
of main peer contractors going into liquidation. 
Various stakeholders require reassurance that the Company has strong liquidity risk 
management including a long-term funding facility and the generation of sufficient 
cash from trading. Risks arise from short-term cash flow movements and renewal risk 
on maturity of facilities.
//  New funding facility secured in 2011 to service the Group’s needs until 2016, 
target refinance one year before maturity
// Business unit budgets and regular monitoring of financial performance
//  Long-term liquidity – annual cash flow forecasts for visibility of funding and 
compliance with banking covenants
//  Short-term liquidity – weekly three-month rolling cash flow forecast and detailed 
variance analysis
//  Robust management of work in progress and debt
//  Proactive identification of potential bad debt and management plans put 
in place between operations and finance teams 27 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
The Board is committed to a strong process 
of risk identification and management process.
Learn about our risk identification and management 
process in our governance section on pages 42 to 43
Risk and description Mitigation
Business retention and new business
A strong bid pipeline and order book are both essential to the success of the business. 
Risk management planning is needed to ensure new tenders are won and existing 
contracts are retained. Successful re-tendering requires a combination of competitive 
pricing and client confidence in quality proposals based on evidence of historical delivery.
//  Strong Group Business Development team
//  Bid project management process with assigned bid leader
//  Expanding bid governance process under consolidated scheme of delegated 
authority including audits
//  Risk plan to respond to sub-optimal market pricing
//  Commercial review of efficiency of delivery model for re-tendering and a plan 
to achieve best efficiency rates 
//  Regional Managing Directors’ performance review and client/management relationships
//  Contract development/improvement plans 
Health and safety
Mears’ services and operations involve a series of high risk activities ranging from 
dealing with vulnerable customers in need of care to our building related services, 
e.g. working at heights, working with gas and electricity and dealing with asbestos. 
Failure to have robust and safe systems of work could lead to serious personal 
injury or fatality.
//  Strong Group and regional safety, health and environmental teams
//  Comprehensive safe systems of work and risk mitigation plans
//  Internal SHE auditing and third party external validation 
// Regular SHE communication and a national conference
//  Training of operations staff and the involvement of subcontractors
//  Annual Group SHE strategy and plan
//  Close involvement with regional and branch management 
Business continuity
Mears Group recognises that there are considerable risks of business continuity in 
certain locations within our markets which could be caused by rioting, terrorism and 
natural catastrophe. In addition there are geographical risks that could threaten our 
business infrastructure, e.g. telecommunications failures.
Vulnerable people depend upon our services; hence we must have disaster recovery 
and business continuity plans.
//  IT disaster recovery plan and back-up systems facility remote to business units
//  Business continuity plans for each regional/business unit in progress
//  Disaster scenario management training 
//  Data back-up facility and protocol
// Disaster recovery and business continuity plans to be tested annually
Legal and regulatory
The Group is subject to numerous tax, legal and regulatory requirements. 
A breach of any of these could result in legal proceedings, imposition of financial and 
other penalties or investigations, taking management focus away from core business 
and therefore disrupting the business.
//  Provision of information across the business about new laws and regulations
//  Head of legal services remit with an expanded team and external support
//  Induction of staff 
//  Training of key staff on developments including the Bribery Act 2010
// Policies and procedures issued and controls to comply with laws and regulations
//  R i s k a ss ess me n t s 
// Internal governance control and audits
Integrity, ethics, anti‑ bribery and corruption
There are inherent risks of bribery, fraud and corruption in some of the sectors 
we work in. It is important that we have an internal control framework and means 
of communication to be proactive where any risks materialise.
//  Group internal audit team
//  Confidential whistleblowing policy
//  Regular communication about policy in Company – monthly journal (Mears Matters) 
and team briefings and use of intranet
//  Comprehensive investigations and robust action on any negative findings
//  Business ethics code of conduct
//  Auditing of legitimate work valuation/billing from subcontractors and to our clients
//  Risk plan to implement controls for the anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation  28 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / Corporate social responsibility
Improving the lives of the people 
living within our communities. 
Reducing prejudice and 
improving the understanding 
of differences within our 
diverse communities. 
Providing career and skills 
development to those needing 
them the most. 
Being a positive contributor 
to our environment.
Minimising our environmental impact
In 2011, Mears can again reported continued 
improvements in its environmental performance. 
A successful partnership with Network Waste 
has helped Mears to achieve 88% recycling rates 
and more than a 10% reduction in waste costs. 
In order to achieve this we have invested in 
new compactors to reduce the cost of waste 
transportation, re-negotiated costs with 
suppliers and implemented better waste 
management processes. 
We continue to be active in supporting a range of 
activities to help address fuel poverty and reduce 
carbon emissions within the communities in which 
we work and this will remain a priority for us in 2012.
Investing in people
Mears has once again retained its Investors 
in People accreditation (IIP). We have held this 
accreditation since 1994. Our annual employee 
survey highlighted the pride our staff have in 
the business with staff morale being significantly 
ahead of that within the majority of UK businesses. 
During 2011 our apprentice and trainee numbers 
increased by 95. Importantly the Group has been 
able to retain 85% of apprentices and trainees 
who completed their training programme. This 
is a statistic which is well ahead of the industry 
norm. We currently have 213 apprentices and 
trainees in our repair and maintenance business, 
of which 20 are female. A similar programme has 
been launched in our care business.
In 2011 we launched a leadership training 
programme, which 76 of our senior managers 
completed. The feedback from this was highly 
positive with all managers stating that the 
course gave them more confidence in their people 
management and presentations skills. On average 
each employee receives five days of training per year 
covering areas such as people management, health 
and safety, customer services and trade skills.
The Mears Foundation
The Mears Foundation was established in 
2010 to help improve the lives of vulnerable 
or disadvantaged people in the UK and abroad 
by offering practical support and intervention. 
The Foundation works with groups and individuals 
who share Mears’ values and aims to empower 
and assist them to develop skills and maximise 
their potential.
During 2011 The Mears Foundation supported 
projects and charities both in the UK and 
abroad, including:
//  The Rainbow Centre for Children, Bristol by 
providing funding and hands-on assistance 
with repairs and refurbishment in the art room 
and garden.
//  Sithabile Child and Youth Care Centre, 
Johannesburg, South Africa, where a team 
of Mears volunteers carried out extensive 
improvement works to the centre including 
the creation of an IT suite. We also funded 
a visit to the UK by a student from Sithabile, 
equipping him with invaluable practical work 
and life experiences.
//  Supporting the Disaster Emergency 
Committee (DEC) following the East Africa 
Crisis Appeal to help provide food 
and supplements.
//  Supporting The Salfordian Hotel, a social 
enterprise hotel in Salford, by providing respite 
and mini-breaks for deserving Mears’ residents.
Serving our communities
In 201 1 staff volunteered 18,087 hours and delivered 
424 projects in their communities around the UK. 
CO Poisoning Awareness Week – a national 
project delivered locally by our operations
This national campaign, endorsed and supported 
by the Carbon Monoxide Awareness charity, both 
raised awareness and gave people practical advice 
on what to do should they suspect they are at risk 
from CO poisoning. During the week staff from Mears, 
supported by clients, British Gas and people in its 
Making a positive difference by:
Committed to improving lives.
424 projects were undertaken by volunteering 
Mears staff in 201 1 to help improve the 
communities in which we work. 29 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Review of the year / 01–29
Measuring our progress: CSR key performance indicators
Providing our employees with a safe working 
environment is paramount. In 2008, Mears 
introduced its own in-house training course 
that was accredited by the British Safety 
Council and has been a major factor in 
achieving the impressive reduction in 
accidents. Our AFR is calculated as the 
number of fatalities or reportable incidents 
divided by the number of hours works 
multiplied by 100,000. Over the last five years, 
Mears has seen year-on-year improvement. 
Target – Year-on-year improvement.
Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) 
Why we measure it
0.36%
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
0.36%
0.41%
0.43%
0.38%
0.58%
Garden regeneration bridges generation gap
Bowmont House, an extra care housing scheme in Newcastle where 
Mears provides care for the residents, had its garden transformed by 
Mears in a local volunteering initiative by the care and home improvement 
teams. The scheme has links with a local school, Brunton First. Mears 
invited a team of Year One students to help residents plant hanging 
baskets and raised beds with flowers and vegetables. For many of the 
children this was their first experience of gardening and this gave the 
older residents the opportunity to pass on their knowledge and 
experience to the interested children. 
As well as work done on the garden, including putting up trellis, building 
raised beds and installing seating, bird tables and boxes, Mears donated 
a Wii Fit to Bowmont House which the children are showing the residents 
how to use.
communities, took the message out to the public 
with a series of events held in public places across 
the UK. Staff distributed 27 ,000 leaflets to the public 
and door-to-door to tenants and care service users 
and the campaign was widely publicised using 
social networks such as Twitter and local media.
The initiative was widely applauded and throughout 
the week our events were visited by people who had 
personal experience and had suffered bereavements 
as a result of CO poisoning. 
Teaming up to deliver Christmas cheer 
Staff from Mears care in Brighton raised money 
throughout 2011 to put on a Christmas party for 
the residents of an extra care housing scheme 
where they provide care services. The local Brighton 
maintenance team also supported this initiative. 
The money raised covered the cost of a three-course 
Christmas lunch and prizes for a raffle. Teams from 
both care and repair and maintenance served lunch, 
entertained the residents and also arranged for other 
care service users living in the community to join 
them for the day.
Passing on practical skills to young 
people in Peterborough
Operatives Mo Danji and Kevin Larrington, 
who are employed on the Cross Keys contract in 
Peterborough, are teaching bricklaying to a group 
of 15 local students who had been at risk of being 
excluded from school. With the support of Mears 
the school set up a construction skills course for 
children who were not engaging in the classroom. 
Mo and Kevin spend three hours at the school 
every week working with the youngsters and 
passing on valuable skills.
Teacher Stuart Lawrence from Thomas Deacon 
Academy says, ‘It soon became evident that the 
students were not only learning some valuable skills 
and a trade, but also learning essential life skills 
and qualities that have helped them to get them 
back on track in their school work. Mo and Kevin 
have made a real impact in these students’ lives’.
Serving communities in practice 30 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance / Board of Directors
An experienced Board.
Bob Holt / 57
Chairman
Bob had a controlling interest in Mears at the 
time of flotation in October 1996. He has a 
background in developing support service 
businesses. He has operated in the service 
sector since 1981, initially in a financial capacity 
then moving into general management.
David J Miles / 46
Chief Executive Officer
David joined Mears in May 1996 and, prior to his 
appointment to the Board in January 2007, was 
Managing Director of the Mears Social Housing 
division. Prior to joining Mears, David held a senior 
position with the MITIE Group. His background 
is in electrical engineering.
Andrew C M Smith / 39
Finance Director
Andrew joined Mears in December 1999 and, 
prior to his appointment to the Board, was 
Finance Director covering all the Mears Group’s 
subsidiaries. Andrew qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant in 1994 and worked in professional 
practice prior to joining Mears.
Peter F Dicks / 69
Non‑ Executive Deputy Chairman
Peter has been active in the venture capital and 
investments fields for a number of years. He is 
currently a Director of a number of companies. 
He joined Mears in 2008 and is Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.
David L Hosein / 48
Non‑ Executive Director
David has over 17 years’ consulting experience, 
the last five of which have been at OC&C Strategy 
Consultants Limited where David is a Partner. 
David has worked extensively in the support 
services sector for corporate and private equity 
clients. Previously, he was a partner in Arthur 
Andersen. He joined Mears in 2008.
Davida Marston / 58
Non‑ Executive Director
Davida had a 30 year career in international 
banking, working in the UK, Spain and North and 
South America. She is a Non-Executive Director 
of several companies including one of the largest 
general insurers in the UK. She chaired the Audit 
and Risk Committee of Midland Heart and its 
predecessor Keynote Housing and was a member 
of the Audit Committee of Family Mosaic Housing. 31 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance / 30–54
Alan Long / 49
Executive Director
Alan joined Mears in 2005 and, prior to his 
appointment to the Board in August 2009, he was 
Managing Director of Careforce, the Group’s Care 
business, having previously held the position of 
Group Sales and Marketing Director. Prior to joining 
Mears, Alan held senior roles for Britannia Building 
Society, Mars and Smith and Nephew.
Michael G Rogers / 70
Non‑ Executive Director
Michael founded Careforce in 1999 and has over 
30 years’ experience in healthcare services and 
care provision. In 1976 he joined Nestor Medical 
Group Limited as Managing Director and went on 
to become Chief Executive of Nestor Healthcare 
Group plc from 1986 to 1996. From 1996 to 1999 
he worked as a consultant to a number of healthcare 
related organisations.
Rory Macnamara / 57
Non‑ Executive Director
Rory is a Chartered Accountant with a wide range 
of corporate finance transaction experience. He 
was previously Vice Chairman and Head of Mergers 
and Acquisitions at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell and 
latterly a Managing Director at Lehman Brothers. 
He is currently a consultant to various companies 
and holds a number of directorships including 
Izodia Plc, Carpathian Plc, Dunedin Income 
Growth Investment Trust Plc and Private Equity 
Investor Plc. He is Chairman of the Group’s 
Nomination Committee.
Reginald B Pomphrett / 68
Company Secretary
Reg has been involved in corporate finance for 
over 30 years and is Director of a number of 
companies. He is a Chartered Secretary and 
a member of the Securities Institute. He joined 
Mears in 1996. 32 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance / Shareholder and corporate information
Registered office
1390 Montpellier Court 
Gloucester Business Park 
Brockworth 
Gloucester GL3 4AH 
Tel: 01452 634600 
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Company registration number
3232863
Company secretary
Reginald B Pomphrett
1390 Montpellier Court 
Gloucester Business Park 
Brockworth 
Gloucester GL3 4AH 
Tel: 01452 634600
Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
Wales and South West  
Business Banking 
PO Box 119 
Park House 
Newbrick Road 
Stoke Gifford 
Bristol BS34 8TN 
Tel: 01452 365353
HSBC Bank plc
West & Wales Corporate Banking Centre 
3 Rivergate 
Temple Quay 
Bristol BS1 6ER 
Tel: 0845 583 9796
Solicitors
BPE
St James’ House 
St James’ Square 
Cheltenham GL50 3PR 
Tel: 01242 224433
Auditor
Grant Thornton UK LLP
Registered Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
Hartwell House 
55–61 Victoria Street 
Bristol BS1 6FT 
Tel: 0117 305 7600
Joint financial advisers 
and stockbrokers
Investec Bank PLC
2 Gresham Street 
London EC2V 7QP 
Tel: 020 7597 2000
Canaccord Genuity Limited
88 Wood Street 
London EC2V 7QR 
Tel: 020 7523 8000
Registrar
Neville Registrars Ltd
Neville House 
18 Laurel Lane 
Halesowen 
West Midlands B63 3DA 
Tel: 0121 585 1131
Investor relations
Gable Communications
34 Lime Street 
London ECM 7AT
Internet
The Group operates a website which can be found 
at www.mearsgroup.co.uk. This site is regularly 
updated to provide information about the Group. 
In particular all of the Group’s press releases 
and announcements can be found on the site.
Registrar
Any enquiries concerning your shareholding 
should be addressed to the Company’s Registrar. 
The Registrar should be notified promptly of any 
change in a shareholder’s address or other details. 
Investor relations
Requests for further copies of the Annual Report 
and Accounts, or other investor relations enquiries, 
should be addressed to the registered office.
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting
6 June 2012
Record date for final dividend
15 June 2012
Dividend warrants posted to shareholders
3 July 2012
Interim results announced
14 August 2012  33 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance / Report of the Directors
The Directors present their report together with the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are the provision of a range of outsourced services to the public and private sectors. The principal activity of the Company 
is to act as a holding company.
Business review
The Company is required to set out a fair review of the business of the Group during the reporting period. The information that fulfils this requirement can be 
found in the At a Glance section, the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive Officer’s Review, the Market Development Review and the Financial Review. 
The results of the Group can be found within the Consolidated Income Statement.
Dividend
The final dividend in respect of 2010 of 4.85p per share was paid in July 2011. An interim dividend in respect of 2011 of 2.15p was paid to shareholders in 
November 2011. The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.35p per share for payment on 3 July 2012 to shareholders on the Register of Members 
on 15 June 2012. This has not been included within the consolidated financial statements as no obligation existed at 31 December 2011.
Corporate governance
A statement on the Group’s Corporate Governance is set out on pages 37 to 43.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
We focus on a range of key indicators to assess our performance. Our performance indicators are both financial and non-financial and ensure that the Group 
targets its resources around its customers, employees, operations and finance. Collectively they form an integral part of the way that we manage the business 
to deliver our strategic goals. Our primary performance indicators are detailed on pages 18 to 21.
Directors
The present membership of the Board is set out with the biographical detail on pages 30 and 31. 
D J Miles, A C M Smith and M G Rogers retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in June 2012.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 are detailed within the Remuneration 
Report on pages 50, 52 and 53.
The process governing the appointment and replacement of Directors is detailed within the Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 and 4 1.
Going concern
A review of the Group’s activities during the year and its outlook are set out in the Chairman’s Statement and Chief Executive Officer’s Review on pages 4 to 21. 
The financial position of the Group is described on pages 22 to 25. Our two growth markets, Social Housing and Care, are defensive sectors where spend 
is largely non-discretionary and our contracts tend to be long-term partnerships.
The Group had net debt of £13.4m at 31 December 2011 and total funding headroom at that date of £106.6m which it considers sufficient to fund current 
trading plans. The Group has completed a refinancing of its banking facilities with a new £120m unsecured revolving credit facility with an additional accordion 
mechanism allowing the facility to be increased to a maximum of £160m. This provides significant additional funding capacity for the Group and will mature in 
July 2016. Our ability to achieve such a refinancing in the current economic environment is a testament to the continued strong performance of the business 
and the strength of the longstanding relationship we share with both Barclays and HSBC.
The Directors consider that, as at the date of approving the financial statements, there is a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements.
Corporate governance / 30–54 34 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance / Report of the Directors continued
Amendment to Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association can be amended only by a special resolution of the members, requiring a majority of not less than 75% of such 
members voting in person or by proxy.
Share capital authorisations
The 2010 AGM held in June 2011 authorised:
//  the Directors to allot shares within defined limits. The Companies Act 2006 requires Directors to seek this authority and, following changes to FSA rules 
and Institutional guidelines, the authority is limited to one third of the issued share capital, a total of £283,125 plus an additional one third of issued share 
capital £283,125 that can only be used for a rights issue or similar fund raising; and
//  the Directors to issue shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis. This authority is limited to 5% of the issued share capital £42,469 and is required to 
facilitate technical matters such as dealing with fractional entitlements or possibly a small placing.
Further details of these authorisations are available in the notes to the 2010 Notice of AGM. Shareholders are also referred to the 2011 Notice of AGM which 
contains similar provisions in respect of the Company’s equity share capital as detailed below.
AGM
The 2011 AGM will be held at the offices of Investec Bank PLC, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP on 6 June 2012 at 9.30am and a formal Notice of Meeting 
and Form of Proxy are enclosed. The ordinary business to be conducted will include the re-appointment of Directors who retire by rotation.
The special business will comprise the following resolutions:
//  to authorise the Directors to allot shares within defined limits. The Companies Act 2006 requires Directors to seek this authority and, following changes 
to FSA rules and Institutional Guidelines, the authority, as in previous years, will be limited to one third of the issued share capital, a total of £291,389 
plus an additional one third of issued share capital £291,389 that can only be used for a rights issue or similar fund raising;
//  to authorise the Directors to issue shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis. This authority is limited to 5% of the issued share capital £43,708 and 
is required to facilitate technical matters such as dealing with fractional entitlements or possibly a small placing; and
//  to authorise the convening of general meetings (other than an AGM) on 14 days’ notice. This results from a European Union Directive that became 
effective on 3 August 2010 and will override Section 307 of the Companies Act 2006 where the requirement to give 21 days’ notice for certain meetings 
has been amended.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk is an accepted part of doing business. The Group’s financial risk management is based upon sound economic objectives and good corporate practice. 
The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and internal control within the context of achieving the Group’s objectives. Our process for identifying 
and managing risks is set out in more detail within the Corporate Governance Statement. The key risks and mitigating factors are set out on pages 26 and 27 . 
Details of financial risk management is given in Note 21 on pages 90 to 93.
Contracts of significance
The Group is party to significant contracts within each segment of its business. The Directors do not consider that any one of those contracts is essential 
in its own right to the continuation of the Group’s activities.
Payment policy
The Company acts purely as a holding company and as such is non-trading. Accordingly, no payment policy has been defined. However, the policy for Group 
trading companies is to set the terms of payment with suppliers when entering into a transaction and to ensure suppliers are aware of these terms. Group 
trade creditors during the year amounted to 64 days (2010: 55 days) of average supplies for the year. 35 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Capital structure
The Group is financed through both equity share capital and debt. Details of changes to the Company’s share capital are given in note 23 to the financial 
statements. The Company has a single class of shares – ordinary 1p shares – with no right to any fixed income and with each share carrying the right to 
one vote at the general meetings of the Company. Under the Company’s Articles of Association, holders of ordinary shares are entitled to participate in any 
dividends pro-rata to their holding. The Board may propose and pay interim dividends and recommend a final dividend for approval by the shareholders at 
the AGM. A final dividend may be declared by the shareholders in a general meeting by ordinary resolution, but such dividend cannot exceed the amount 
recommended by the Board.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 2 March 2012 the Company has been notified of, or is aware of, the following shareholders holding 3% or more of the issued share capital 
of the Company:
Holding 
(millions) %
Majedie Asset Management 8.29 9.7%
Artemis Investment Management 7 .91 9.2%
Legal & General Investment Management 5.42 6.3%
Invesco Perpetual 4.59 5.3%
Schroder Investment Management 4.47 5.2%
Heronbridge Investment Management 3.79 4.4%
Four Capital Partners 2.79 3.3%
Highclere International Investors 2.61 3.0%
Disabled employees
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned. In the event 
of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training 
is arranged. It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical 
to that of other employees.
Employee information and consultation
The Group has received recognition under the ‘Investors in People’ award. The Group continues to involve its staff in the future development of the business. 
Information is provided to employees through a quarterly newsletter, the Group website and the intranet to ensure that employees are kept well informed of 
the performance and objectives of the Group. 
CREST
CREST is the computerised system for the settlement of share dealings on the London Stock Exchange. CREST reduces the amount of documentation 
required and also makes the trading of shares faster and more secure. CREST enables shares to be held in an electronic form instead of the traditional share 
certificates. CREST is voluntary and shareholders can keep their share certificates if they wish. This may be preferable for shareholders who do not trade in 
shares on a frequent basis.
Auditor
Grant Thornton UK LLP offers itself for re-appointment as auditor in accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006.
On behalf of the Board
R B Pomphrett
Secretary
27 March 2012 
Corporate governance / 30–54 36 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance / Statement of Directors’ responsibilities / in respect of the Directors’ Report and financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required to prepare Group 
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. Under company law the 
Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs and profit or loss 
of the Group and the Company for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
//  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
//  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
//  state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; and
//  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
In so far as each of the Directors is aware:
//  there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
//   the Directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
auditor is aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation 
in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
To the best of my knowledge:
//   the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
//   the management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
A C M Smith
Finance Director
27 March 2012 37 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance / Corporate governance statement
Introduction
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of corporate governance and is ultimately accountable for the Group’s activities, strategy and financial 
performance. The Board is dedicated to upholding and achieving good standards of corporate governance, integrity and business ethics for all activities.
The Board continues to be committed to maintaining the Group’s operations in accordance with the highest standards of corporate governance as set out 
in The UK Corporate Governance Code issued in June 2010 and has complied with it throughout the year.
The Board of Directors
As at 31 December 2011, the Board had nine members, comprising the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Executive Director, and five 
independent Non-Executive Directors. P F Dicks is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. The Directors’ biographical details are set out on 
pages 30 and 31. These indicate the high level and range of business experience which enables the Group to be managed effectively. Their mix of skills 
and business experience is a major contribution to the proper functioning of the Board and its committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated.
The Board’s prime objective is to ensure ongoing commercial and financial success of the Group. The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership of the Group 
within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed. The Board sets the Group’s strategic aims, ensures that 
the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives and reviews management performance. The Board sets the 
Group’s values and standards and ensures that the Group’s obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
The Board considers that each of the Non-Executive Directors who served during the year are independent in terms of judgement and character and free 
from any relationship which might materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement. Notwithstanding this opinion and for the sake of 
completeness, below is a summary of relationships which may appear to affect their judgement:
// D L Hosein is a Director of OC&C Strategy which in the past (not in the last three years) has received fees for work carried out for the Group;
//  M G Rogers became a Director of the Group in April 2007, on the acquisition of Careforce, where he continued as CEO until 2008 when he became 
a Non-Executive Director; and
// P F Dicks and R P Macnamara are Non-Executive Directors of Sportingbet PLC.
The Non-Executive Directors provide a strong independent element to the Board and bring experience at a senior level of business operations and strategy, 
constructively challenging and helping develop proposals on strategy. A summary of the terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors 
is available on request from the Company Secretary.
All Directors act in what they consider to be the best interests of the Company, consistent with their statutory duties.
Board responsibility
The Board maintains and regularly reviews a full list of matters and decisions which are reserved to, and can only be approved by, the Board. These are reviewed 
annually and include but are not limited to:
//  Group strategy and operating plans; 
//  corporate governance and risk management;
//  compliance with laws, regulations and the Company’s code of business conduct; 
//  financing and treasury, including the approval of budgets and major capital acquisitions; 
//  appointment, termination and remuneration of Directors and the Company Secretary;
//  financial reporting and audit, including interim and full-year results announcements and dividends; 
//  approving significant acquisitions, disposals and new business start-ups;
//  e t h i c s; an d
//  employee benefits including pensions and share-based payments.
Whilst the Board has specific responsibility for those matters reserved for its consideration, in certain areas, specific responsibility is delegated to committees 
of the Board within defined terms of reference. The activities of these committees are discussed in more detail later in this report.
Corporate governance / 30–54 38 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance / Corporate governance statement continued
Leadership
The Chairman, R Holt, is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role. The Chairman sets the Board’s 
agenda and ensures that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues. The Chairman promotes a culture of 
openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors, in particular ensuring constructive relationships between Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive is clearly established and agreed by the Board. The Chief Executive, D J Miles, 
manages the day-to-day business operations of the Group as Chief Executive. A central part of his role includes recommending and implementing key 
strategies as agreed with the Board, communicating to shareholders and allocating decision making and responsibilities accordingly. He takes a leading role, 
with the Chairman, in the relationship with all external agencies and in promoting Mears Group PLC.
As part of their role, the Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and develop proposals on strategy. The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the 
performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance. They satisfy themselves on the integrity 
of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible. They determine appropriate levels of 
remuneration of Executive Directors and have a prime role in appointing and, where necessary, removing Executive Directors, and in succession planning.
Board meetings
The Board meets regularly throughout the year as well as on an ad hoc basis, as required by time critical business needs. The Board receives detailed 
financial information and regular presentations from Executives on Mears’ business performance. Directors are supplied with an agenda and supporting 
papers for all Board meetings on a timely basis along with minutes of previous Board and Committee meetings. This enables the Directors to make informed 
decisions on corporate and business issues under consideration. When Directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are advised of the matters to be 
discussed and given an opportunity to make their views known to the Chairman prior to the meeting.
During the year, six scheduled Board meetings were held.
The Non-Executive Directors meet independently without the Chairman present, and also meet with the Chairman independently of management, 
on a regular basis. The Non-Executive Directors also independently meet each of the Executive Directors formally once a year.
The Directors delegate responsibilities for the day-to-day operational and financial management of the Group to the Senior Management Team, which 
comprises Senior Executives across each of the Group’s operational divisions and support functions and is the principal forum for directing the operational 
and financial business of the Group and for delivering the strategy set by the Board.
Board membership and Board and committee meeting attendance:
Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee
Number of meetings Potential Actual Potential Actual Potential Actual Potential Actual
R Holt 6 6 — — — — — —
D J Miles 6 6 — — — — — —
A C M Smith 6 6 — — — — — —
A Long 6 6 — — — — — —
M G Rogers 6 6 — — — — — —
M A Macario 2 2 2 2 — — 2 2
P F Dicks 6 6 4 4 2 2 3 3
D L Hosein 6 6 — — — — — —
D Marston 6 6 4 4 — — — —
R Macnamara 6 5 4 3 2 2 3 3
All Directors are expected to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively and, where possible, attend all Board 
meetings. Any time commitment matters would be addressed by the Chairman and the Director concerned. 39 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Evaluation of Board performance
Performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual Directors takes place on an annual basis with the support of the Company Secretary. 
The Board undertakes formal evaluation of its own performance and the Board committees assess their respective roles, performance and terms 
of reference and report accordingly to the Board. The Board assesses the reviews of each Committee. 
The performance evaluation process included: a review of the areas of Board responsibility; the structure and composition of the Board and its committees 
and the performance of the committees; the quantity, quality and scope of information provided to the Board; the content of Board meetings and presentations 
to meetings; and the openness of communications between the Board members and Executive management. The Board members concluded that appropriate 
actions had been identified to address areas that could be improved and that, overall, the Board and its committees continued to operate effectively.
The performance of the Chairman was reviewed separately in a process led by the Senior Independent Director.
Following the performance evaluation of individual Directors, the Chairman has confirmed that the Non-Executive Directors standing for re-election at this 
year’s AGM continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles. In particular the Board is strongly of the opinion that by their actions 
and conduct they demonstrate their independence. It is the Board’s intention to continue to annually review its performance and that of its committees and 
individual Directors. A decision is taken each year on the performance evaluation process to be used.
Senior Management Team
The Senior Management Team, which comprises Senior Executives across each of the Group’s operational divisions and support functions, is the principal 
forum for directing the operational and financial business of the Group and for delivering the strategy set by the Board. 
Director development
Any Director, on appointment and throughout their service, receives an induction and is entitled to receive any training which is considered necessary to fulfil 
their responsibilities effectively. The Chairman regularly meets with each Director to review and agree any training and development needs.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
Board committees
The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its principal committees. The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial information, the effectiveness 
of the financial controls and the internal control and risk management systems. The Nomination Committee recommends the appointment of Directors and 
conducts a review of succession planning at Board and Operating Board levels. The Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration policy for Executive 
Directors and determines their individual remuneration arrangements. 
The Chairperson of each Committee provides a report of any meeting of that Committee at the next Board meeting. Each Committee comprises 
Non-Executive Directors, as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code 2008.
The Chairperson of each Committee is present at the AGM to answer questions from shareholders. 
Corporate governance / 30–54 40 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance / Corporate governance statement continued
Board committees continued
Audit Committee
Chair D Marston from 8 June 2011 following retirement by M A Macario.
Membership P F Dicks and R Macnamara.
The Audit Committee is comprised of financially literate members having the necessary ability and experience to understand 
financial statements.
The committee has access to the financial expertise of the Group and its auditor and can seek further professional advice 
at the expense of the Group, if required. 
Role The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing: 
//  the integrity of the interim and annual financial statements, including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements 
contained in them;
//  the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and risk management and control over financial reporting;
//  the Group’s overall approach to ensuring compliance with laws, regulations and Company policies in areas of risk, accounting 
standards and generally accepted accounting principles;
//  the Group’s relationship with the external auditor, including its independence and management’s response to any major 
external audit recommendations; 
//  the Group’s policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditor;
//  the fees and objectivity of the Group’s auditor are considered by the Committee;
//  the appointment and review of the Group Risk Officer; and
//  the preservation of good financial practices throughout the Group. 
During the year, the Audit Committee received detailed presentations from the Group’s auditor and reviewed the findings of the external auditor from its audit 
of the annual financial statements. 
The Audit Committee is committed to ensuring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor. During the year the Committee assessed the 
qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the external auditor, as well as its ongoing effectiveness and considered the audit process on the 
basis of meetings and an internal review with finance, audit staff and other senior management. In reviewing the independence of the external auditor, the 
Audit Committee considered a number of factors, including: the standing, experience and tenure of the external audit partner; the nature and level of services 
provided by the external auditor; and confirmation from the external auditor that it has complied with relevant UK independence standards. This is particularly 
important in light of the tax compliance and advice being performed by the same firm. This is safeguarded through a review of the level of non-audit work 
which is given to the audit firm. The Committee also reviews the term of office of the external auditor. The Audit Committee is satisfied with the performance 
of the external auditor and, after due consideration, has recommended the re-appointment of Grant Thornton UK LLP.
The Audit Committee has monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the internal systems and controls in place, taking into account the key business and 
financial risks and mitigation towards these.
The Audit Committee considers the need for an internal audit function annually. After due consideration the Committee has recommended to the Board that 
a formal internal audit function is not considered necessary due to the regular involvement of central functions such as business analysts and the regional 
finance team in branch activities. This position is subject to an ongoing review. The Committee has recommended to the Board that the independent team 
which continues to investigate any allegations brought to its attention through the Group’s whistleblowing procedure is enlarged. This team operated 
throughout 2011 and remains in place.
Nomination Committee
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board. The search for Board candidates is conducted, and 
appointments made, on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of Diversity on the Board, including gender. All Directors are able 
to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities. The Board has plans in place for orderly succession for appointments to the 
Board and to Senior Management. These plans aim to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and on the Board and 
ensure progressive refreshing of the Board. 41 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Board committees continued
Nomination Committee continued
Chair R Macnamara.
Membership P F Dicks, M A Macario (until his retirement in June 2011) and D L Hosein (appointed December 2011).
Role The Nomination Committee’s responsibilities include: 
//  keeping under review the composition of the Board and succession to it and succession planning for senior management 
positions within the Group;
//  making recommendations to the Board concerning appointments to the Board, whether of Executive or Non-Executive Directors, 
having regard to the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board;
//  making recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of  
his/her specified term and the re-election of any Director by shareholders under the retirement provisions of the Company’s 
Articles of Association; 
// managing a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for any appointments of new Directors to the Board;
//  prior to the appointment of a Director, requires that the proposed appointee discloses any other business interests that may result 
in a conflict of interest and report and future business interests that could result in a conflict of interest; and
//  ensures that on appointment to the Board, Non-Executive Directors receive a formal letter of appointment setting out clearly what 
is expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside of Board meetings.
The committee met twice during the year and all members of the committee were present at each meeting. During the year, the committee considered the 
membership of each sub-committee of the Board, updated its succession planning and confirmed its previous recommendations to the Board in respect 
of memberships of sub-committees following the retirement of M A Macario.
Remuneration Committee
There is a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on Executive remuneration and for determining the remuneration of individual Directors.
Chair P F Dicks
Membership R Macnamara, M A Macario (until his retirement in June 2011) and M G Rogers (appointed in December 2011)
Role The Remuneration Committee is responsible for:
//  determining and agreeing with the Board the broad remuneration policy for: 
 //  the Chairman, the Executive Directors and senior management; and
 //  the Executive Directors’ remuneration and other benefits and terms of employment, including performance related bonuses 
and share options; and
//  approving the service agreements of each Executive Director, including termination arrangements.
No Director is involved in determining his/her own remuneration.
Full details of the remuneration committee’s activities during the year are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 54.
The Company and its shareholders
The Group places a great deal of importance on communication with its shareholders. The Board is committed to maintaining an ongoing dialogue with its 
shareholders through the provision of regular Interim and Annual Reports and regular trading reports. 
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders as well as general presentations after the interim and preliminary results. Throughout the 
year the Group arranged a number of site visits for shareholders and other City commentators with the aim of providing them with increased exposure to our 
operations and management.
The principal methods of communication with private investors remain the Annual Report and Accounts, the interim statement, the quarterly newsletters and 
the Group’s website (www.mearsgroup.co.uk), where the Group highlights the latest key business developments. 
Corporate governance / 30–54 42 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance / Corporate governance statement continued
Internal control and risk management
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that the Directors review the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control. This extends the Directors’ 
review to cover all material controls, including operational, compliance and financial controls and risk management systems. The Directors are satisfied that 
procedures are in place to ensure that the Group complies with the Turnbull Committee guidance published by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in 
England and Wales and that the procedures have been applied during the year.
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The Board has delegated some of these responsibilities 
to the Audit Committee who has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and ensured that any remedial action has or is being taken on 
any identified weaknesses. The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and 
can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. It includes all controls including financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management procedures.
The Board confirms that the Group has in place an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. 
The Group endeavours to ensure that the appropriate controls, systems and training are in place and has established procedures for all business units 
to operate appropriate and effective risk management. 
The processes used to assess the effectiveness of the internal control systems are ongoing, allowing a cumulative assessment to be made, and include 
the following:
//  delegation of day-to-day management to operational management within clearly defined systems of control, including:
 //  the identification of levels of authority within clearly identified organisational reporting structures;
 //  the identification and appraisal of financial risks both formally, within the annual process of preparing business plans and budgets, and informally, 
through close monitoring of operations;
 //  a comprehensive financial reporting system within which actual results are compared with approved budgets, quarterly re-forecasts and previous 
years’ figures on a monthly basis and reviewed at both local and Group level; and
 //  an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate level of approval for all capital and revenue expenditure;
//  discussion and approval by the Board of the Group’s strategic directions, plans and objectives and the risks to achieving them, combined with regular 
reviews by management of the risks to achieving objectives and actions being taken to mitigate them;
//  review and approval by the Board of annual budgets, combined with regular operational and financial reviews of performance against budget, prior year 
results and regular forecasts by management and the Board;
//  regular reviews by the Board and Audit Committee of identified fraudulent activity and actions being taken to remedy any control weaknesses;
//  regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee of the scope and results of internal and external audit work across the Group and the 
implementation of recommendations; and
//  consideration by the Board and by the Audit Committee of the major risks facing the Group and of the procedures in place to manage them and to ensure 
controls react to changes in the Group’s overall risk profile. These include health and safety, legal compliance, quality assurance, insurance and security 
and reputational, social, ethical and environmental risks.
The Board has reviewed these procedures and considers them appropriate given the nature of the Group’s operations. The system of internal control and risk 
management is embedded into the operations of the Group and the actions taken to mitigate any weaknesses are carefully monitored.
 The key controls in place are:
//  a defined organisational structure and an appropriate level of delegated responsibility to operational management;
//  authorisation limits for financial and non-financial transactions;
//  written operational procedures;
//  a robust system of financial budgeting and forecasting;
//  a robust system of financial reporting with actual results compared to budget and forecast results; and
//  a regular reporting of operational performance and risks to the Board. 43 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Internal control and risk management continued
During 2011, the Audit Committee commissioned a review of risk governance to ensure that it met the FRC guidance on best practice. The Mears Senior 
Management Team members, together with the assistance of external advisers, all played an integral part in this review. The key outcomes included:
//  identification of the principal risks, weighting their impact on the business and likelihood of each risk occurring;
//  determination of Group risk owners together with preparation of risk mitigation plans;
//  appointment of a Chief Risk Officer (CRO);
//  risk ratings and mitigation plans will be updated and challenged periodically. Risk owners are required to produce evidence of current mitigation and plans 
to increase mitigation;
//  each key risk will have key ‘lines of defence’ to build in practical tiers of detection and protection to either avoid a risk occurring or prevent the escalation 
of a risk exposure;
//  a consolidated scheme of delegated authority is being produced to ensure greater consistency and uniformity of corporate governance for 
implementation in early 2012;
//  formal monthly risk review is held between the Chief Executive Officer and CRO; and 
// external validation will take place periodically. 
The principal risks and uncertainties are detailed further on pages 26 and 27 . 
Additionally, in line with The UK Corporate Governance Code, the Group has arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against 
its Directors.
Financial reporting risk management
The Company has in place internal control and risk management systems in relation to the Company’s financial reporting process and the Group’s process 
for the preparation of consolidated accounts. The consolidated financial statements are produced by the Group finance function which is responsible for 
the review and compilation of reports and financial results from each of the operating subsidiaries in accordance with the Group reporting procedures. 
The consolidated financial statements are supported by detailed workings papers. The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing and monitoring 
these processes, which are designed to ensure that the Company complies with relevant regulatory reporting and filing provisions. As at the end of the 
period covered by this report, the Audit Committee, with the participation of the Chief Executive and Finance Director, evaluated the effectiveness of the 
design and operation of disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in financial reports is recorded, 
processed, summarised and reported within specified time periods.
This report was approved by the Board and has been signed on its behalf by:
P F Dicks
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
27 March 2012
Corporate governance / 30–54 44 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance / Remuneration report 
Introduction
This report has been prepared in accordance with SI 2008/4 10 Schedule 8 (the ‘Regulations’). The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing 
Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the 2011 UK Corporate 
Governance Code (‘Combined Code’) relating to Directors’ remuneration. As required by the Regulations, an advisory resolution to approve the report will be 
proposed at the AGM of the Company at which the financial statements will be approved. 
The auditor is required to report on the ‘auditable’ part of this report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. The report is therefore divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Part 2 of the Regulations – unaudited information
Remuneration Committee
The Directors who were members of the Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’) during the year are shown on page 4 1.
In 2011, the Committee continued to engage PwC and received wholly independent advice on Executive compensation.
The Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference and its main responsibilities are detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 4 1.
In summary, the Committee determines the total individual remuneration packages of each Executive Director of the Group and certain other senior 
employees (and any exit terms) and recommends to the Board the framework and broad policies of the Group in relation to Senior Executive remuneration. 
The Committee determines the targets for all of the Group’s performance related remuneration and exercises the Board’s powers in relation to all of the 
Group’s share and incentive plans.
The Committee met three times during 2011 and discussed, amongst others, the issues set out in the table below:
Meeting Key issues discussed Attendees
April – A review of Executive Directors’ and senior management’s base salaries and pension provision All Committee members
– Consideration of bonus payments for Executive Directors
– Approval of the 2010 Directors’ Remuneration Report
August –  Structure and performance targets of LTIP All Committee members
–  Deferral of 2011 LTIP awards pending outcome of review in conjunction with advisers
December – Review of Executive Directors’ bonus structure for 2012 All Committee members
– Review of pension contributions made in respect of Executive Directors
– Executive Directors’ base salaries to be reviewed annually in April 
Annual overview
The Committee has continued to work to build investor confidence with regard to its Executive remuneration policies and is committed to the following actions:
//  improve the level of openness and transparency in remuneration reporting through a detailed annual Remuneration Report;
//  provide no increase to the Chairman’s salary for 2010, 2011 or 2012, which resulted in a reduced salary level for 2011 and a further proposed reduction 
for 2012, and to review at regular intervals the role and responsibilities of the Chairman going forward in accordance with the implementation of the 
succession planning strategy;
//  operate a structured bonus arrangement with clear financial and individual performance targets for each year; 
//  undertake a regular review of the remuneration policies for Executive Directors and other Senior Executives within the Group to ensure that they remain 
appropriate to retain and motivate such individuals;
//  take into account the changes to principles proposed by the Walker Review and other pronouncements by regulatory bodies and institutional 
shareholders and their representative bodies;
//  consider pay policies within the Group as a whole when determining Executive Directors’ remuneration packages;
//  encourage Executive Directors and Senior Executives to build up a meaningful shareholding in the Company to more closely align the interests 
of shareholders and Executives; and
//  to be kept fully aware and informed on developments and best practice in the field of remuneration and corporate governance from external advisers, 
institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
Notwithstanding the above, the Committee recognises that the success of the Group is down to the efforts of key individuals and that they should be fairly 
rewarded for their efforts and contributions in making Mears the success it is. The following section details how remuneration is structured. 45 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Part 2 of the Regulations – unaudited information continued
Remuneration policy and philosophy
The Committee has adopted the following remuneration principles in supporting its primary objective of ensuring that the Group has in place a remuneration 
structure that is able to incentivise and retain highly skilled and motivated individuals who are the cornerstone of the continued success of the Group:
Remuneration policy How is this achieved?
Levels of remuneration should be appropriate to 
retain and motivate the Executive talent required 
to meet the Group’s objectives.
Provide threshold level of remuneration which reflects the individual’s experience, role and contribution 
within the Group. 
Remuneration levels are reviewed annually with due consideration afforded to the Mears’ 
remuneration policy and external benchmarks and market practices.
Incentive arrangements for key individuals should 
be capable of providing exceptional levels of total 
payment if outstanding performance is achieved.
The Executive Directors’ remuneration package is designed to ensure that variable components of an 
Executive Director’s remuneration package amounts to one third for target performance and half for 
stretching performance.
The significant component of each Executive’s 
total compensation should be delivered through 
performance related pay and the provision of equity.
Around half of the Executive Directors’ remuneration package is based on long-term performance. 
The Group operates a long-term incentive scheme in which awards vest subject to the achievement 
of challenging EPS and TSR growth targets.
A commitment to fostering a strong performance 
culture that aligns an individual’s rewards with the 
key corporate metrics which drive shareholder 
value creation.
Performance targets are set which are motivating and directly aligned to the Group’s strategic KPIs 
and underlying performance.
The Committee also ensures that the remuneration package does not lead to irresponsible 
behaviours and that it takes appropriate account of risk.
The charts below indicate the target remuneration as a percentage of total remuneration for each Executive Director’s remuneration package in line with the 
current policy.
R Holt D J Miles A C M Smith  A Long
. Salary 77% 
. Annual bonus  
. LTIP  
. Pension 23%
. Salary 38% 
. Annual bonus 15% 
. LTIP 42% 
. Pension 5%
. Salary 38% 
. Annual bonus 15% 
. LTIP 42% 
. Pension 4%
. Salary 38% 
. Annual bonus 15% 
. LTIP 42% 
. Pension 4%
The charts below demonstrate the balance between fixed and variable pay for target and maximum performance for Executive Director’s remuneration in 2012 
in line with the current policy:
. Fixed 
. Maximum
Target
Maximum
57%
47% 53%
43%
Corporate governance / 30–54 46 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance / Remuneration report continued
Part 2 of the Regulations – unaudited information continued
Remuneration policy and philosophy continued
Salary
The purpose of the base salary is to:
//  help recruit and retain key individuals;
//  reflect the individual’s experience, role and contribution within the Group; and
//  ensure fair reward for ‘doing the job’.
The Committee reviews base salaries annually in order to ensure that Executive Directors remain competitively aligned with external market practices. In 2012 
and future years, with the exception of the Chairman, salaries will be reviewed in April, which is in line with when salaries are reviewed throughout the Group.
The Committee will retain the discretion to increase an individual’s salary (other than that of the Chairman) where there is a significant difference between 
current levels and a market competitive rate. However, in determining whether to increase levels the Committee will take the following into consideration:
//  the performance of the individual Executive Director;
//  the individual Executive Director’s experience and responsibilities;
//  the impact on fixed costs of any increase; and
//  pay and conditions throughout the Group.
As communicated in last year’s Remuneration Report, the Committee is committed to reducing the salary level for the Chairman, which historically reflected 
his combined role of Chairman and Chief Executive. Since the separation of roles in late 2010, the Committee has progressively reduced his base salary 
to levels which are aligned with salaries received by Executive Chairmen at similar size companies. In 2011 his base salary was reduced from £450,000 
to £350,000. A further reduction to £250,000 is proposed for 2012. The Committee will continue to regularly review the Chairman’s salary level and ensure 
that it remains appropriate based on his ongoing role and responsibilities.
As a result of David Miles’ appointment to CEO, a re-assessment of the duties of Andrew Smith and Alan Long and following a consultation process with 
major shareholders and other bodies, the Committee adjusted the salary levels in 2011 from £230,000 to £330,000 for David Miles, £170,000 to £220,000 for 
Andrew Smith and £160,000 to £180,000 for Alan Long. The consultation process included a benchmarking calculation using a peer group and companies of 
similar size and the increases reflected the lower of these two comparator groups. The net effect when taking into account the reduction in the Chairman’s 
salary was an increase of 7% for 2011. This should be considered in the context of the pending salary review for Executive Directors and a further reduction 
in the Chairman’s salary for 2012, which is likely to show no increase in total Executive Directors’ salaries over a two-year period.
The table below shows the Executive Directors’ salaries for 2011. As indicated above, with the exception of the Chairman, salaries will be reviewed 
in (and changes, if any, will be effective from) April 2012: 
Base salary
2012
Base salary
2011
R Holt £250,000 £350,000
D J Miles £330,000 £330,000
A C M Smith £220,000 £220,000
A Long £180,000 £180,000
The Chairman’s base salary for 2012 will be £250,000.
External appointments
R Holt is a Non-Executive Director of Green Compliance PLC and Inspired Energy PLC and receives fees totalling £61,000. 47 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Part 2 of the Regulations – unaudited information continued
Remuneration policy and philosophy continued
Annual bonus
The Group offers Executive Directors and senior management the opportunity to earn performance related bonuses.
The purpose of the annual bonus is to incentivise Executive Directors and senior management to achieve financial, strategic, operational and individual 
targets during a one-year period and reward ongoing stewardship of the Group and contribution to core values.
Maximum bonus levels and the proportion payable for on-target performance are considered in the light of market bonus levels for similar roles among 
our competitors and in the quoted support services sector.
The maximum bonus potential for the Executive Directors for 2012 and subsequent years will continue to be limited to 75% of salary (reduced from 110% 
in 2010). It should be noted that bonus payments are not pensionable. With effect from 2012, it is the intention that a significant portion of any bonus 
payments due to Executive Directors will be paid in shares rather than cash.
In 2011, the Committee set clear objectives for each individual Executive Director relating to Group KPIs, plus individual (where relevant) divisional and strategic 
targets, taking into account where an individual has particular influence and responsibility. The performance against the Group KPIs is measured using a 
balanced scorecard approach which is applied to each of the Executive Directors. 
Such targets included:
//  delivery and mobilisation of new contracts;
//  delivery of acquisition strategy;
//  shaping and development of Care business;
//  succession planning; and
//  f in an ci a l p e r f o rm a n c e.
For 2011 and future years, annual bonuses will be based on a combination of performance measures:
Measure Proportion Objective
Financial performance 2/3
The Group’s financial performance 
is measured against annual 
budgets that drive corporate 
performance
Profit before tax and amortisation 
(PBTA)
Achievement
Payment – % of salary
Threshold
<100%
0%
Budget
100%
26.67%
Maximum
110%
50%
Personal objectives 1/3
Performance is measured annually 
against agreed personal objectives 
that will support the achievement 
of the Group’s business goals
Typical KPIs include: 
Business development 
Bid wins ratios 
Working capital control 
Service ratings 
Margins 
Complaint ratios 
Jobs completed on time ratios 
People development 
HSE targets 
Revenue growth
Below target Target Maximum
Aggregate
payout is
0%
Aggregate
payout is
13.33%
Aggregate
payout is
25%
Total bonus (as % of base salary) — 40% 75%
The proportion of the bonus awarded that is based on an individual’s personal objectives is conditional upon the achievement of the budget performance 
target, at which point this part of the award will be subject to the performance targets indicated in the table above.
In respect of the 2011 financial year, as a result of the financial performance (PBTA) budget target not being achieved, no bonus payments were made 
to Executive Directors. The Committee recognises and appreciates the efforts and contributions of the Executive Directors and all employees of the Group 
in a challenging economic environment. 
No changes are being proposed to the annual bonus arrangements in 2012, subject to the intention to pay a significant portion of any payments due 
to Executive Directors in shares going forward.
Corporate governance / 30–54 48 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance / Remuneration report continued
Part 2 of the Regulations – unaudited information continued
Remuneration policy and philosophy continued
Benefits
The Executive Directors receive additional benefits including a company provided car or an allowance in lieu, life assurance and private medical insurance. 
Benefits-in-kind are not pensionable.
Pensions
All Executive Directors receive a contribution into their respective defined contribution plans which are subject to periodic review to ensure that they 
remain in line with rates applicable in the market. Only the base salary is pensionable. The Committee reviewed the pension contribution rates paid in 
respect of Executive Directors at its meeting in December 2011 and agreed to increase these rates to 15% per annum, which is in line with the current 
market. This increase became effective from January 2012. 
The contribution rates, together with the amounts paid into the defined contribution plans, are set out in the audited section of this report on page 52.
Share awards
Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The Committee’s policy is to provide market competitive annual share grants to Executives Director and certain members of the Senior Management Team. 
The Committee believes that share awards under the LTIP enable the Group to provide a competitive incentive and retention tool which is also cost effective in 
respect of both shareholder dilution and Income Statement expense. This structure demonstrates the Committee’s desire to correlate incentive arrangements 
with the achievement of sustained performance. 
The main terms and conditions of the LTIP are set out in the following table:
Feature Terms and conditions
Maximum individual limit 200% of salary p.a. 
Awards made annually in the form of 1p options.
Performance conditions 75% of the award vests based on the growth in Group EPS performance over a three-year performance period. 
EPS targets are set by reference to consensus analyst forecasts with maximum payout at a significant stretch to 
this level. Awards are underpinned by a comparative TSR measure whereby the Group’s growth in TSR must at least 
exceed the return of an appropriate comparator group.
25% of the award is subject to the Group’s TSR growth against the return of an appropriate comparator group over 
a three-year performance period. 
The two conditions are measured independently. Awards will be released on the third anniversary of the date of grant subject to the achievement of the 
relevant performance conditions over the same period.
Pending a review of the structure and performance targets of the LTIP, the Committee did not grant LTIP awards to the Executive Directors during the 2011 
financial year. However, the Committee intends to grant LTIP awards in respect of the 2011 financial year as soon as possible and in line with the principles 
set out above. 
The Committee has undertaken a detailed review of the LTIP structure and, as a consequence of this review, has concluded that the LTIP structure is still fit 
for purpose and is an effective tool with which to motivate its Executive Directors and members of the Senior Management Team and to focus on the long 
term strategic performance of the Group and, in line with its terms of reference, will review this on an annual basis. 49 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Part 2 of the Regulations – unaudited information continued
Remuneration policy and philosophy continued
Share awards continued
Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP) continued
The following table sets out the level of vesting based on performance to date for all outstanding LTIP awards:
Percentage of award vesting
Year of grant Performance period TSR EPS Total vesting
2008 October 2008–October 2011* — 53% 27%
2009 October 2009–October 2012** — — —
2010 August 2010–August 2013** — 10% 8%
* Actual. 
** Projected given performance to date.
Share options
Although the policy on equity incentives is through the provision of the LTIP Awards, Executive Directors and Senior management hold share options in the 
Company which were granted prior to adoption of the LTIP.
The tables on pages 52 and 53 set out the number of share awards held by the Executive Directors. There were no share option awards in 2011.
All-employee share plans
The Group encourages share ownership by employees and, accordingly, it operates an all-employee share plan.
Under the terms of the Sharesave Plan all UK employees can save up to £250 per month and receive three or five-year options to acquire the Company’s 
shares priced at a discount of up to 20%. In December 2011 invitations were issued to all eligible employees (other than Directors) at an option price of 178p 
which resulted in applications for 1,357,977 options from 664 employees, all of which were accepted in full.
Dilution
In accordance with the Association of British Insurers’ guidelines, the Company can issue a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling ten-year 
period to employees under all its share plans. In addition, of this 10% the Company can only issue 5% to satisfy awards under discretionary or Executive 
plans. The Company operates all its share plans within these guidelines.
Other remuneration matters
Executive Directors’ contracts
Details of the service contracts of the Executive Directors of the Company are as follows: 
Name
Notice
period
Contract
date
R Holt 6 months June 2008
D J Miles 12 months June 2008
A C M Smith 12 months June 2008
A Long 12 months August 2009
All Executive Directors’ contracts are rolling and, therefore, will continue unless terminated by the written notice set out above. In the event of the termination 
of an Executive’s contract, salary and benefits will be payable during the notice period (there will, however, be no automatic entitlement to bonus payments 
or share incentive grants during the period of notice other than where normal good leaver provisions apply). The Committee will ensure that there have been 
no unjustified payments for performance failure on an Executive Director’s termination of employment. There are no special provisions in the contracts of 
employment extending notice periods on the liquidation of the Company or cessation of employment. The maximum notice period on a change of control 
is twelve months.
Executive Directors have an obligation to inform the Board, specifically the Remuneration Committee, of any Non-Executive positions held or being 
contemplated and of the associated remuneration package. The Remuneration Committee will consider the merits of each case and carefully consider the 
work and time commitment required to fulfil the Non-Executive duties and the potential benefit to the Group and then determine whether the remuneration 
should be retained by the Executive or passed over to the Group.
Corporate governance / 30–54 50 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance / Remuneration report continued
Part 2 of the Regulations – unaudited information continued
Other remuneration matters continued
Non-Executive Directors’ fee level
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Board and is within the limits set by the Articles of Association. Assistance is also 
available from the Group’s remuneration advisers. 
Each Non-Executive Director was paid an annualised fee of £42,000 for 2010 and 2011. These fees are subject to review in 2012. No additional fees are paid 
for committee membership or other normal duties and Non-Executive Directors do no participate in any incentive, pension or bonus arrangements.
Details of the current Non-Executive Directors’ appointment dates are:
Name
Effective date of letter of 
appointment or last renewal
D L Hosein June 2008
M G Rogers June 2008
P F Dicks June 2008
D Marston June 2010
R Macnamara June 2010
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts. Letters of appointment run for a rolling six-month period.
Directors’ interests
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 are detailed below: 
Ordinary shares
31 December
2011
Number
31 December
2010
Number
R Holt 500,000 500,000
D J Miles 110,000 100,000
A C M Smith 50,000 50,000
A Long 4,108 4,108
M G Rogers 102,420 102,420
D L Hosein — —
P F Dicks 23,298 23,298
D Marston 15,324 10,500
R Macnamara — — 51 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Part 2 of the Regulations – unaudited information continued
Five-year TSR performance graph
The graph shows the Group’s performance, measured by TSR, compared with the constituents of the FTSE All Share Support Service Sector over the last 
five years. The Index is the most relevant to compare the Group’s performance against its peers. 
Part 3 of the Regulations – audited information
The remuneration of each Director, excluding long-term, share-based incentive awards and pensions, during the year ended 31 December 2011 compared with 
2010 is set out in the table below:
Directors’ remuneration
Fees/
basic salary
£’000
Bonus
£’000
Benefits
-in-kind
£’000
2011
Total
£’000
2010
Total
£’000
Executive
R Holt 350 — 15 365 465
D J Miles 330 — 9 339 239
A C M Smith 220 — 6 226 174
A Long 180 — 10 190 164
1,080 — 40 1,120 1,042
Non-Executive
R B Pomphrett* — — — — 18
M A Macario* 21 — — 21 42
D L Hosein 42 — — 42 42
M G Rogers 42 — — 42 42
P F Dicks 42 — — 42 42
D Marston 42 — — 42 23
R Macnamara 42 — — 42 23
231 — — 231 232
Total remuneration 1,311 — 40 1,351 1,274
* M A Macario did not seek re-election at the AGM on 8 June 2011. R B Pomphrett did not seek re-election at the AGM on 9 June 2010.







 

	
�

Corporate governance / 30–54 52 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance / Remuneration report continued
Part 3 of the Regulations – audited information continued
Executive Directors’ pensions (defined contribution)
2011
£’000
2011
%
2010
£’000
2010
%
R Holt 105 30 135 30
D J Miles 45 14 31 14
A C M Smith 22 10 17 10
A Long 18 10 16 10
190 199 
Mears Group PLC Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The LTIP was approved by shareholders on 1 October 2008. Awards under the LTIP are set out in the table below:
Date of grant
LTIP Awards
to 1 January
2011
 
Granted Lapsed
LTIP Awards
held at
31 December
2011
Date of
release
D J Miles
13 October 2008
1
100,000 — (73,450) 26,550 October 2011
28 October 2009
2
100,000 — — 100,000 October 2012
24 August 2010
3
175,000 — — 175,000 August 2013
A C M Smith
13 October 2008
1
100,000 — (73,450) 26,550 October 2011
28 October 2009
2
100,000 — — 100,000 October 2012
24 August 2010
3
130,000 — — 130,000 August 2013
A Long
13 October 2008
1
100,000 — (73,450) 26,550 October 2011
28 October 2009
2
100,000 — — 100,000 October 2012
24 August 2010
3
100,000 — — 100,000 August 2013
LTIP Awards are in the form of 1p options. If the relevant EPS and TSR performance conditions attaching to the awards are satisfied then the Director has 
seven years in which to exercise the award.
 As explained above awards in respect of the 2011 financial year were not granted during 2011, but the Remuneration Committee intends to grant these 
awards to the Executive Directors as soon as possible and their grant will be reported in the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts.
1
  The performance applicable to 2008 awards is subject to EPS growth (50% of the award) of 10%, 12.5% and 17.5% p.a. for 10%, 30% and 100% vesting and TSR performance against 
the FTSE All Share Support Services Sector (50% of the award) where 30% vest for performance equal to the Index and full vesting for outperforming the Index by 10%.
2
  The performance applicable to 2009 awards is subject to EPS growth (75% of the award) of 10%, 12.5% and 15% p.a. for 10%, 30% and 100% vesting and TSR performance against 
the FTSE All Share Support Services Sector (25% of the award) where 30% vest for performance equal to the Index and full vesting for outperforming the Index by 10%.
3
  The performance applicable to 2010 awards is subject to EPS growth (75% of the award) of 8%, 12.5% and 15% p.a. for 10%, 30% and 100% vesting and TSR performance against 
the FTSE All Share Support Services Sector (25% of the award) where 30% vest for performance equal to the Index and full vesting for outperforming the Index by 10%. 53 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Part 3 of the Regulations – audited information continued
Details of Directors’ interests in shares held under option
Executive Directors hold the following options granted under the Mears Group Share Option Scheme or Special Incentive Plan:
Date of grant
At
1 January
2011 Lapsed Exercised
At
31 December
2011
Exercise
price
p
Exercisable
dates
R Holt
10 April 2003 129,870 — (129,870)
1
— 77 —
10 April 2003 240,642 — (240,642)
1
— 1 —
1 April 2004 30,453 — (30,453)
1
— 1 —
28 September 2009 2,500,000 — — 2,500,000 1 2010–2019
D J Miles
1 April 2004
2
30,453 — — 30,453 1 2007–2014
8 April 2005
2
7 ,220 — — 7 ,220 1 2008–2015
21 April 2006 10,000 — — 10,000 300 2009–2016
21 April 2006
2
6,087 — — 6,087 1 2009–2016
28 September 2007
2
50,045 — — 50,045 1 2010–2017
20 March 2008
2
151,149 — — 151,149 1 2011–2018
A C M Smith
10 April 2003 50,000 — — 50,000 77 2006–2013
1 April 2004
2
24,363 — — 24,363 1 2007–2014
8 April 2005
2
7 ,220 — — 7 ,220 1 2008–2015
21 April 2006 10,000 — — 10,000 300 2009–2016
21 April 2006
2
6,087 — — 6,087 1 2009–2016
28 September 2007
2
50,045 — — 50,045 1 2010–2017
20 March 2008
2
100,766 — — 100,766 1 2011–2018
A Long
21 April 2006 10,000 — — 10,000 300 2009–2016
21 April 2006
2
6,087 — — 6,087 1 2009–2016
28 September 2007
2
20,018 — — 20,018 1 2010–2017
20 March 2008
2
75,575 — — 75,575 1 2011–2018
1 
 On the 17 August 2011 R Holt, Chairman of Mears, exercised share options (granted in 2003 and 2004 with a condition of continued employment) over 400,965 ordinary shares in the Company. 
The resulting shares were sold on the same day at an average price of 271.77p per share. 
2 
 For those options with an exercise price of 1p, these options which were previously market-priced options but were replaced with a lower number of 1p options with the same expected value 
and terms and conditions. These 1p options can only be exercised if the share price is greater than the original exercise price of the market-priced options.
Corporate governance / 30–54 54 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Corporate governance / Remuneration report continued
Part 3 of the Regulations – audited information continued
Details of Directors’ interests in shares held under option continued
 Options are exercisable at the prices indicated which are equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to 
the date of grant. The vesting period is three years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire and 
are forfeited if the Director leaves Mears Group PLC before the option vests.
The agreements covering Directors’ options and LTIP Awards are available for inspection at the Group’s offices. The Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests 
(which is also open to inspection) contains full details of the Directors’ shareholdings and options to subscribe.
This report was approved by the Board and has been signed on its behalf by:
P F Dicks
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
27 March 2012 55 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
Financial statements / Group accounts
Financial statements
Report of the independent auditor 56
Principal accounting policies – Group 58
Consolidated income statement 68
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 69
Consolidated balance sheet 70
Consolidated cash flow statement  71
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 72
Notes to the financial statements – Group  73 56 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Report of the independent auditor / to the members of Mears Group PLC
We have audited the financial statements of Mears Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Group principal accounting policies, 
Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, related Group notes, Company principal accounting policies, Parent Company Balance Sheet and related 
Company notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has 
been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other 
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 36 the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (United Kingdom and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
//  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the 
Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
// the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union;
// the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
//  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
// the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006;
//  the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial 
statements; and
//  the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 37 to 43 with respect to internal control and risk management systems 
in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.  57 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
//  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 
visited by us; 
//  the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns; 
// certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; 
// we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
// a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review:
// the Directors’ Statement, set out on page 33, in relation to going concern; 
//  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code 
specified for our review; and
// certain elements of the report to the shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration.
J Geraint Davies
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants
Bristol
27 March 2012 58 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Principal accounting policies – Group
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union. The financial statements 
are prepared under the historical cost convention.
The accounting policies remain unchanged from the previous year except for the adoption of IAS 24 (Revised) ‘Related Party Disclosures’ and the adoption 
of the May 2010 Annual Improvements to IFRS.
IAS 24 (Revised) ‘Related Party Disclosures’ (effective from 1 January 2011) which introduced certain exemptions for disclosing transactions with government 
or government related entities. IAS 24 has had no material impact on the Group.
May 2010 Annual Improvements to IFRS (effective 1 January 2011) have been applied but have had no material impact on the Group.
The Directors consider that as at the date of approving the financial statements, there is a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. The Directors have discussed the principal risks and uncertainties of the business in the Report of the Directors on pages 26 and 27 .
Basis of consolidation
The Consolidated Balance Sheet includes the assets and liabilities of the Company and its subsidiaries and is made up to 31 December 2011. Entities over 
which the Group has the ability to exercise control over financial and operating policies are accounted for as subsidiaries. Control is obtained and exercised 
through voting rights so as to obtain benefits from its activities. Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition and 
interests sold are consolidated up to the date of disposal.
All significant intercompany transactions and balances between Group enterprises, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, 
are eliminated on consolidation; no profit is taken on sales between Group companies. 
Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method. The purchase method involves the recognition at fair value of all identifiable assets and 
liabilities, including contingent liabilities of the subsidiary at the acquisition date, regardless of whether or not they were recorded in the financial statements 
of the subsidiary prior to acquisition. On initial recognition, the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at their 
fair values, which are also used as the bases for subsequent measurement in accordance with the Group accounting policies. Goodwill is stated after separating 
out identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets of 
the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Where applicable the consideration for an acquisition includes any assets of liabilities arising from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at fair 
value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they result from additional information 
obtained up to one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date. All other subsequent changes in the fair 
value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are recognised in accordance with IAS 39, either in the Income Statement or Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Costs relating to acquisitions in the year have been expensed.
Any business combinations prior to 1 January 2010 were accounted for in accordance with the standards in place at the time, which differ in the following 
respects: transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition formed part of the acquisition costs; contingent consideration was recognised if, and only if, 
the Group had a present obligation, the economic outflow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate was determinable; and subsequent adjustments 
to the contingent consideration were recognised as part of goodwill.
Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost, net of depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable 
to the acquisition of the items. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when 
it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow into the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other 
repairs and maintenance are charged to the Income Statement during the financial period in which they are incurred. 59 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
Property, plant and equipment continued
Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated to write down the cost less estimated residual value over their estimated useful 
economic lives. The rates generally applicable are:
Freehold buildings  – 2% per annum, straight-line 
Leasehold improvements – over the period of the lease, straight-line 
Plant and machinery – 25% per annum, reducing balance 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment – 25% per annum, reducing balance 
Motor vehicles – 25% per annum, reducing balance 
Assets under construction – nil
Residual values are reviewed annually and updated if appropriate. The carrying value is reviewed for impairment in the period if events or changes 
in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. An asset’s carrying value is written down immediately to its recoverable amount 
if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within administrative expenses 
in the Income Statement.
Intangible assets
In accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business Combinations’, an intangible asset acquired in a business combination is deemed to have a cost to the Group of 
its fair value at the acquisition date. The fair value of the intangible asset reflects market expectations about the probability that the future economic benefits 
embodied in the asset will flow to the Group. Where an intangible asset might be separable, but only together with a related tangible or intangible asset, the 
group of assets is recognised as a single asset separately from goodwill where the individual fair values of the assets in the Group are not reliably measurable. 
Where the individual fair value of the complementary assets are reliably measurable, the Group recognises them as a single asset provided the individual 
assets have similar useful lives. Intangible assets are amortised over the useful economic life of those assets. 
Development costs incurred on software development are capitalised when all the following conditions are satisfied:
//  completion of the software module is technically feasible so that it will be available for use;
//  the Group intends to complete the development of the module and use it;
//  the software will be used in generating probable future economic benefits; 
//  there are adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use the software; and
//  the expenditure attributable to the software during its development can be measured reliably.
Costs incurred making intellectual property available for use (including any associated borrowing costs) are capitalised when all of the following conditions 
are satisfied:
//  completion of the data set is technically feasible so that it will be available for use;
//  the Group intends to complete the preparation of the data and use it;
//  the data will be used in generating probable future economic benefits; 
//  there are adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the data set and to use it; and
//  the expenditure attributable to the intellectual property during its development can be measured reliably.
Development costs not meeting the criteria for capitalisation are expensed as incurred. Careful judgement by management is applied when deciding whether 
the recognition requirements for development costs have been met. This is necessary as the economic success of any development is uncertain and may be 
subject to future technical problems at the time of recognition. Judgements are based on the information available at each balance sheet date. In addition, 
all internal activities related to the research and development of new software are continually monitored by management.
The cost of an internally generated intangible asset comprises all directly attributable costs necessary to create, produce and prepare the asset to be 
capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Directly attributable costs include employee costs incurred on software development.
Amortisation commences upon completion of the asset and is shown within other administrative expenses. Until completion of the project, the assets are 
subject to impairment testing only. Development expenditure is amortised over the period expected to benefit. 60 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Principal accounting policies – Group continued
Intangible assets continued
The identifiable intangible assets and associated periods of amortisation are as follows:
Order book  – over the period of the order book, typically three years 
Client relationships  – over the period expected to benefit, typically five years 
Development expenditure – 25% per annum, straight-line 
Intellectual property – over the period of usefulness of the intellectual property, typically five years
Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents any excess of the cost of the acquired entity over the Group’s interest in the fair value 
of the entity’s identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and is capitalised as a separate item. Goodwill is recognised as an intangible asset.
Under the business combinations exemption of IFRS 1, goodwill previously written off direct to reserves under UK GAAP is not recycled to the Income 
Statement on calculating a gain or loss on disposal.
Impairment
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows: cash-generating units 
(CGUs). As a result, some assets are tested individually for impairment and some are tested at CGU level. Goodwill is allocated to those CGUs that are expected to 
benefit from synergies of the related business combination and represent the lowest level within the Group at which management monitors the related cash flows.
Goodwill, other individual assets or CGUs that include goodwill and those intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least 
annually. All other individual assets or CGUs are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount 
may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement for the amount by which the asset or CGU’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value, reflecting market conditions less costs to sell, and value-in-use based on an internal discounted cash 
flow evaluation. Impairment losses recognised for CGUs, to which goodwill has been allocated, are credited initially to the carrying amount of goodwill. 
Any remaining impairment loss is charged pro-rata to the other assets in the CGU. With the exception of goodwill, all assets are subsequently reassessed 
for indications that an impairment loss previously recognised may no longer exist.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is the actual purchase price of materials.
Work in progress
Work in progress is included in inventories after deducting any foreseeable losses and payments on account not matched with turnover. Work in progress 
represents costs incurred on contracts that cannot be matched with contract work accounted for as turnover. Work in progress is stated at the lower of cost 
and net realisable value. Cost comprises materials, direct labour and any subcontracted work which has been incurred in bringing the inventories and work in 
progress to their present location and condition.
Amounts recoverable on contracts
Amounts recoverable on contracts are included in trade and other receivables and represent revenue recognised in excess of payments on account.
Accounting for taxes
Income tax comprises current and deferred taxation.
Current tax assets and/or liabilities comprise those obligations to, or claims from, fiscal authorities relating to the current or prior reporting period that are 
unpaid at the balance sheet date. They are calculated according to the tax rates and tax laws applicable to the fiscal periods to which they relate, based on 
the taxable profit for the year. 
Where an item of income or expense is recognised in the Income Statement, any related tax generated is recognised as a component of tax expense in the 
Income Statement. Where an item is recognised directly to equity or presented within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, any related tax 
generated is treated similarly.
Deferred taxation is the tax expected to be repayable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. 61 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
Accounting for taxes continued
Deferred taxation liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable temporary differences in full with no discounting. Deferred taxation assets are recognised 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. However, deferred tax is 
not provided on the initial recognition of goodwill, nor on the initial recognition of an asset or liability, unless the related transaction is a business combination 
or affects tax or accounting profit.
Deferred taxation is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, provided they are enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. The carrying value of deferred taxation assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that 
it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available against which taxable temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is charged or credited 
to either the Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income or equity to the extent that it relates to items charged or credited.
Revenue
Revenue is measured in accordance with IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, for goods and services provided 
in the normal course of business, net of rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Social Housing
Revenue is recognised when the outcome of a job or contract can be estimated reliably; revenue associated with the transaction is recognised by reference 
to the stage of completion of work at the balance sheet date. The outcome of the transaction is deemed to be able to be estimated reliably when all the 
following conditions are satisfied:
//  the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
//  it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity;
//  the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date can be measured reliably; and
//  the costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably.
Whilst all Social Housing contracts can fit within the guidelines laid down for revenue and profit recognition as detailed above, the alternative contractual 
pricing mechanisms do result in different methods of assessing the stage of completion. The Group has therefore recognised revenue dependent on the 
nature of transactions in line with IAS 18.
There are numerous contractual pricing mechanisms but one can broadly divide these into three types: 
Schedule of Rates (SOR) contracts 
There is an element of SOR in approximately two thirds of contracts. At tender stage we enter a price for each of the numerous tasks carried out in respect 
to property maintenance. Typically we price for uplift or a discount against a pre-priced schedule. This price will, in some cases, be an all-encompassing price 
for the cost of direct works, the local site overhead, central overhead and profit contribution. In other instances, the SOR tendered may only recover direct 
works with an alternative mechanism to recover the other elements. Wherever possible, we seek to identify all individual works tickets received individually 
and capture costs and billing at the individual work ticket level. In so doing, this allows revenue to be recognised with a high degree of accuracy. Typically 
reactive maintenance works are invoiced within a month of completion, hence the majority of revenue recognised has already been individually valued at 
the work ticket level and the significant majority has been subsequently settled. The only element of revenue or profit recognition that requires judgement 
is against those jobs that are part complete or those completed works that have not been subject to a final valuation.
For part completed works, it is probable that the Group will recover the transaction costs incurred. Whether the outcome of the transaction can be estimated 
reliably needs to be considered contract by contract based on historic outcomes and knowledge of any events that may affect future job profitability. Where 
the outcome of the transaction cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent that the costs incurred are anticipated to be recovered. 
Where the outcome of the transaction can be estimated reliably, an element of anticipated profit is recognised within revenue to the extent that historic 
outcomes adjusted for knowledge of any events that may affect future job profitability supports such recognition.
For completed but not yet valued works, the outcome of the individual valued work tickets is not reviewed individually for the purposes of profit and revenue 
recognition. However, given the high volume of historical data to provide an accurate indication of underlying contract margin at a particular site, the Group 
considers that the application of an anticipated profit margin on cost to all completed and unbilled works produces a reliable measure.
For completed and valued works, the likely outcome for the individual work ticket can be determined individually for the purposes of profit and revenue 
recognition. The Group considers that the recognition of the anticipated profit for the individual job within revenue is appropriate.
Open book contracts
Typically the open book element of contracts relates to the local site overhead. A priced overhead model is usually provided to a client at tender stage 
and the client pays the Group a fixed sum for maintaining this local site. This is typically an agreed fixed price. Revenue is recognised in line with cost incurred 
and similarly the attributable profit recognised against that cost.  62 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Principal accounting policies – Group continued
Revenue continued
Social Housing continued
Open book contracts continued
Any over or underspends are typically at the risk of the Group. The actual overhead spend is often subject to an open book review which is then used 
as the basis for agreeing future pricing.
On the rare occasions that a contract does recover costs under a pure ‘cost plus’ arrangement, revenue is recognised in line with cost incurred and similarly 
the attributable profit recognised against that cost.
Lump sum contracts
This type of contract is becoming more commonplace. To avoid the onerous burden of administering a high volume, low value activity, the pricing mechanism is 
reduced to either a price per ticket or a price per property. Historically, many gas servicing and breakdown contracts have been procured on a lump sum basis. 
However, it is now becoming increasingly common within the reactive maintenance environment. There is typically an exclusions list for works that are not 
considered repairs and not deemed to fall within the lump sum price. It is normal for this excluded element of the works to be billed under an SOR arrangement.
For practical purposes, in the majority of lump sum contracts, revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the contract term. There is not a material 
impact of seasonality in a client’s reactive maintenance spend (in terms of either volume or value of orders received). In terms of the lump sum element 
of the contract, the revenue is split evenly across the twelve monthly reporting periods. No element of revenue is either advanced or deferred.
There are a small number of lump sum contracts where recognising revenue on a straight-line basis would be inappropriate. These are contracts where the 
phasing of the works over the contract term varies materially over the period of the contract and there is a mismatch between the delivery of works and the 
timing of invoicing against those works. For these contracts, the Group has historically reverted to recognising profit based on the proportion of costs incurred 
to date compared with the estimated total costs of the contract.
Care
Revenue is recognised when the actual care has been delivered. Revenue relating to care delivered and not invoiced is accrued and disclosed under trade and 
other receivables as amounts recoverable on contracts. Revenue attributable to any unused capacity under block contracts, where the Group is able to invoice 
for contracted services not provided, is recognised when the recovery of income is considered virtually certain. There is minimal scope for judgement based 
on the Care process.
Mears Care utilises rostering systems to manage Care. These systems allow for planning a rota for each staff member, together with the corresponding pay 
and bill rates for the particular service type, length of service and time of delivery. These results are very accurate in the calculation of billable time, income 
and corresponding employee pay for a particular contract, branch or region.
Accrued income is determined by applying an average historical billing rate to the number of unbilled hours delivered at the balance sheet date. Variances 
are reviewed in the following month once actual billing is known. The rostering systems allow unbilled hours to be calculated based on planned rostered and 
actual visits along with the corresponding pay and bill rates for the particular service type, length of service and time of delivery. These results are very 
accurate in the calculation of billable time, income and corresponding employee pay for a particular contract, branch or region.
Construction contracts
Revenue from the Mechanical & Electrical (M&E) sector reflects the contract activity during the year and is measured at the fair value of consideration received 
or receivable. When the outcome can be assessed reliably, contract revenue and associated costs are recognised as revenue and expenses respectively by 
reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date. The stage of completion of the contract at the balance sheet date is 
usually assessed by comparing the proportion of costs incurred to estimated total contract costs. Where this is not representative, contract milestones are used 
as a basis of assessing the stage of completion. Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised only to the 
extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable and contract costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. 
In the case of a fixed price contract, the outcome of a construction contract is deemed to be estimated reliably when all the following conditions are satisfied:
// it is probable that economic benefits associated with the contract will flow to the Group;
// both the contract costs to complete the contract and the stage of completion at the balance sheet date can be measured reliably; and
//  the contract costs attributable to the contract can be clearly identified and measured reliably so that actual contract costs incurred can be compared 
with prior estimates.
The gross amount due from customers for contract work is presented as an asset for all contracts in progress for which costs incurred, plus recognised 
profits (less recognised losses), exceed progress billings. The gross amount due to customers for contract work is presented as a liability for all contracts 
in progress for which progress billings exceed costs incurred plus recognised profits (less losses).
Full provision is made for losses on all contracts in the year in which the loss is first foreseen. 63 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
Segment reporting
Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s operating segments based upon the format that the Group reports to its chief operating 
decision makers.
The Group considers that the chief operating decision makers are the Executive Directors and Senior Executives of the business.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement where these are material and considered necessary to explain 
the underlying financial performance of the Group. They are either one off in nature or necessary elements of expenditure to derive future benefits 
for the Group which have not been capitalised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Costs of restructure are only considered to be exceptional where the restructure is transformational and the resultant cost is significant.
Acquisition costs are only considered to be exceptional where the acquisition is significant and the resultant cost is significant.
Employee benefits
Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes as follows:
i) Defined contribution pensions
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into an independent entity. The Group has no legal obligations 
to pay further contributions after payment of the fixed contribution.
The contributions recognised in respect of defined contribution plans are expensed as they fall due. Liabilities and assets may be recognised if underpayment 
or prepayment has occurred and are included in current liabilities or current assets as they are normally of a short-term nature.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in an independently administered fund.
ii) Defined benefit pensions
The Group contributes to 15 principal defined benefit schemes which require contributions to be made to separately administered funds.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one 
or more factors such as age, years of service and salary. The legal obligations for any benefits from this kind of pension plan remain with the Group.
Scheme assets are measured at fair values. Scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and are discounted at 
appropriate high quality corporate bond rates that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related liability. Appropriate adjustments are 
made for past service costs. Past service cost is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. 
To the extent that benefits are already vested, the Group recognises past service cost immediately.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately through the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. The net surplus or deficit is presented 
with other net assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Any related deferred tax is shown with other deferred tax balances. A surplus is recognised only to 
the extent that it is recoverable by the Group.
The Group’s contributions to the scheme are paid in accordance with the rules of the schemes and the recommendations of the actuary.
In accordance with IFRIC 14, the asset that is recognised is restricted to the amount by which the IAS 19 service cost is expected, over the lifetime of the 
scheme, to exceed funding contributions payable in respect of accruing benefits.
Where the pension scheme has a contractual right to recover the costs of making good any deficit in the scheme from the Group’s client, the fair value of that 
asset has been recognised and disclosed. The right to recover costs is limited to exclude situations where the Group causes the scheme to incur service costs 
in excess of those which would have been incurred were the members employed within Local Government. The right to recover costs is also limited to 
situations where the cap on employer contributions to be suffered by the Group is not set so as to contribute to reducing the deficit in the scheme. 64 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Principal accounting policies – Group continued
Employee benefits continued
Share-based employee remuneration
All share-based payment arrangements that were granted after 7 November 2002 and had not vested before 1 January 2005 are recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS 2. 
The Group operates equity-settled share-based remuneration plans for its employees. All employee services received in exchange for the grant of any 
share-based remuneration are measured at their fair values. These are indirectly determined by reference to the fair value (excluding the effect of non-market 
based vesting conditions) of the share options awarded. Their value is determined at the date of grant and is not subsequently remeasured unless the 
conditions on which the award was granted are modified. The fair value at the date of the grant is calculated using the Binomial and Monte Carlo option 
pricing models and the cost is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures 
during the vesting period. For SAYE plans, employees are required to contribute towards the plan. This non-vesting condition is taken into account in 
calculating grant date fair value.
All share-based remuneration is ultimately recognised as an expense in the Income Statement with a corresponding credit to share-based payment reserve.
Upon exercise of share options, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs up to the nominal value of the shares issued are 
allocated to share capital, with any excess being recorded as share premium.
Modifications to share-based payment arrangements are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2. The modifications made by the Group in previous years did 
not increased the fair value of the equity instruments granted and, therefore, there was been no change to the share-based payment charge as a result.
Leases
In accordance with IAS 17 ‘Leases’, the economic ownership of a leased asset is transferred to the lessee if they bear substantially all the risks and rewards 
related to the ownership of the leased asset. The related asset is recognised at the time of inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, 
if lower, the present value of the lease payments plus incidental payments, if any, to be borne by the lessee. A corresponding amount is recognised as 
a finance leasing liability, irrespective of whether some of these lease payments are payable up front at the date of inception of the lease.
Subsequent accounting for assets held under finance lease agreements, i.e. depreciation methods and useful lives, correspond to those applied to comparable 
acquired assets. The corresponding finance leasing liability is reduced by lease payments less finance charges, which are expensed to finance costs. Finance 
charges represent a constant periodic rate of interest on the outstanding balance of the finance lease liability.
All other leases are treated as operating leases. Payment on operating lease agreements is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease 
term. Associated costs, such as maintenance and insurance, are expensed as incurred. 
The Group does not act as a lessor.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. 
The principal financial assets and liabilities of the Group are as follows:
Financial assets
When financial assets are recognised initially under IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, they are measured at fair value, 
net of transaction costs other than for financial assets carried at fair value through the Income Statement.
The Group’s financial assets are included in the Balance Sheet as current assets, except for maturities greater than twelve months after the balance sheet 
date, whereupon they are classified as non-current assets. The Group’s financial assets comprise ‘Trade and other receivables’, ‘Amounts recoverable on 
contracts’ and ‘Cash at bank and in hand’ in the Balance Sheet.
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables, amounts recoverable on contracts and cash at bank and in hand are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments 
that are not quoted in an active market. They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the 
receivables. Trade receivables and amounts recoverable on contracts are initially recorded at fair value net of transaction costs, being invoiced value less a 
provisional estimate for impairment. Trade receivables are subsequently remeasured at invoiced value, less an updated provision for impairment. Any change 
in their value through impairment or reversal of impairment is recognised in the Income Statement. 65 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
Financial instruments continued
Financial assets continued
Loans and receivables continued
Provisions against trade receivables and amounts recoverable on contracts are made when objective evidence is received that the Group will not be able 
to collect all amounts due to it in accordance with the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the write down is determined as the difference 
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows. Individually significant balances are reviewed separately for 
impairment based on the credit terms agreed with the customer. Other balances are grouped into credit risk categories and reviewed in aggregate.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and bank deposits available at less than 24 hours’ notice. Bank overdrafts are presented 
as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances. 
Following initial recognition, financial assets are subsequently remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Financial liabilities
The Group’s financial liabilities are overdrafts, trade and other payables and finance leasing liabilities. They are included in the Balance Sheet line items 
‘Short-term borrowings and overdrafts’, ‘Non-current financial liabilities’ and ‘Trade and other payables’.
All interest related charges are recognised as an expense in ‘Finance cost’ in the Income Statement with the exception of those which are directly attributable 
to the construction of a qualifying asset which are capitalised as part of that asset.
Bank and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of transaction costs. Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise 
cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance revenue and finance costs. Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which 
they are incurred with the exception of those which are directly attributable to the construction of a qualifying asset which are capitalised as part of that asset.
Finance lease liabilities are initially measured at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments 
as determined at the inception of the lease. The initial value is reduced by the capital element of lease repayments over the period of the lease.
Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their fair value.
Following initial recognition, financial liabilities are subsequently remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Derivative financial statements
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising from operational and financing activities.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value, with mark-to-market movements recognised in the Income Statement 
except where cash flow hedge accounting is applied (see below).
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into 
account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, derivatives that do not 
qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments. Mark-to-market movements on these derivatives are shown in the Income Statement.
Hedge accounting for interest rate swaps
Where an interest rate swap is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of an existing or highly probably forecast loan interest payment, the 
effective part of any valuation gain or loss on the swap instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income in the hedging reserve. The cumulative gain 
or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Income Statement at the same time as the hedged transaction. The ineffective part of any gain or loss 
is recognised in the Income Statement immediately.
When a hedging instrument or hedge relationship is terminated but the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point 
remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer probable, the 
cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the Income Statement immediately. 66 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Principal accounting policies – Group continued
Nature and purpose of each reserve in equity
Share capital is determined using the nominal value of shares that have been issued. 
Share premium represents the difference between the nominal value of shares issued and the total consideration received.
Equity-settled shared-based employee remuneration is credited to the share-based payment reserve until the related share options are exercised. 
Upon exercise the share-based payment reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
The hedging reserve represents the effective part of any gain or loss on a cash flow hedge which has not been removed from equity and recognised 
in the Income Statement.
The merger reserve relates to the difference between the nominal value and total consideration in respect of the acquisition of Careforce Group plc 
and Supporta plc, where the Company was entitled to the merger relief offered by the Companies Act.
Dividend distributions payable to equity shareholders are included in ‘Current financial liabilities’ when the dividends are approved in a general meeting prior 
to the balance sheet date.
Use of judgements and estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and 
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenditure during the reported period. 
The estimates and associated judgements are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, 
the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and underlying judgements are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the 
estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
In the preparation of these consolidated financial statements, estimates and judgements have been made by management concerning the selection of useful 
lives of property, plant and equipment, provisions necessary for certain liabilities, when to recognise revenue on long-term contracts, actuarial judgements, 
discount rates used within impairment reviews, the underlying share price volatility for valuing equity-based payments and other similar evaluations. Actual 
amounts could differ from those estimates.
Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised based on the stage of completion of job or contract activity. As described in the Revenue Section on page 61, certain types of social 
housing pricing mechanisms and care require minimal judgement; however, social housing lump sum contracts and construction contracts do require 
judgements and estimates to be made to determine the stage of completion and the expected outcome for the individual contract.
Effectiveness of hedged transactions
Determining whether hedge accounting is appropriate in respect of a cash flow hedge requires an assessment of the effectiveness of the cash flow hedge. 
The purpose of the hedge is to eliminate the income statement effect of interest rate volatility in connection with a portion of forecast borrowings from 
HSBC/Barclays under the revolving credit facility. The Group wishes to hedge against an increase in LIBOR between now and August 2016. The Directors test 
the effectiveness of the Group’s cash flow hedges on a quarterly basis and consider them to be effective.
Capitalisation of development expenditure
Development expenditure is capitalised to the extent that is meets the criteria described in the Intangible assets section on page 59. Careful judgement is 
exercised by management when deciding whether the recognition requirements for development costs have been met. This is necessary as the economic 
success of any development is uncertain and may be subject to future technical problems at the time of recognition. Judgements are based on the 
information available at each balance sheet date.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Impairment of goodwill 
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimate of the value-in-use of the CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated. The value-in-use 
calculation involves an estimate of the future cash flows of the CGUs and also the selection of appropriate discount rates to calculate present values. Future 
cash flows are estimated using the current one-year budget forecast, extrapolated for a future growth rate. The estimated growth rates are based on past 
experience and knowledge of the individual sector’s markets. Changes in the estimated growth rate could result in variations to the carrying value of goodwill. 
The Directors consider that the estimates and judgements involved in determining the value-in-use of the Care CGU goodwill are the most significant and have 
therefore utilised the services of an external consultant to undertake this impairment review. The estimated cash flows and future growth rates are based on 
past experience and knowledge of the sector. The value-in-use is most sensitive to changes in the terminal growth rate, the explicit growth rate and the 
discount rate. The sensitivity to changes in these estimations is detailed in note 11. 67 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
Use of judgements and estimates continued
Key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
Defined benefit liabilities 
A number of key estimates have been made, which are given below, which are largely dependent on factors outside the control of the Group:
// expected return on plan assets;
// inflation rates;
// mortality;
// discount rate; and
// salary and pension increases.
Details of the particular estimates used are included in the pensions note.
Where the Group has a contractual right to recover the costs of making good any deficit in the scheme, the fair value of that asset has been recognised and 
disclosed. The right to recover costs is limited to exclude situations where the Group causes the scheme to incur service costs in excess of those which would 
have been incurred were the members employed within Local Government. The Directors have made judgements in respect of whether any of the deficit is as 
a result of such situations.
The right to recover costs is also limited to situations where the cap on employer contributions to be suffered by the Group is not set so as to contribute to 
reducing the deficit in the scheme. The Directors, in conjunction with the scheme actuaries, have made judgements in respect of the predicted future service 
cost and contributions to the scheme to reflect this in the fair value of the asset recognised.
New standards and interpretations not yet applied
Amendments to IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ – transfers of financial assets (effective 1 July 2011). The Group will apply this amendment from 
1 January 2012.
IAS 19 (revised) ‘Employee Benefits’ (effective 1 January 2012). The Group will apply this revised standard for the Group’s 31 December 2012 financial 
statements. The revised standard combines interest on obligation and expected return on plan assets and requires the disclosure of the net interest on 
liability; it also requires the separate disclosure of expenses for running the plan. As a result asset returns will be based on the discount rate instead of 
the expected rate of return on assets. This is expected to result in a lower expected return in the Income Statement and a higher gain in the Statement 
of Comprehensive Income. The revised standard will require the restatement of the prior year comparative.
IAS 27 (revised) ‘Separate Financial Statements’ (effective 1 January 2013). The Group will apply this revised standard for the Group’s 31 December 2013 
financial statements.
IAS 28 (revised) ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’ (effective 1 January 2013). The Group will apply this revised standard for the Group’s 
31 December 2013 financial statements.
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ (effective 1 January 2015) specifies how an entity should classify and measure financial assets, including some hybrid contracts. 
It requires all financial assets to be classified on the basis of the entity’s business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual cash flow 
characteristics of the financial asset. It requires financial assets to be initially measured at fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value 
through profit or loss, particular transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost or fair value. The Group will apply this standard for 
the Group’s 31 December 2015 financial statements.
IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ (effective 1 January 2013) establishes principles for the presentation and preparation of consolidated financial 
statements when an entity controls one or more other entities. The Group will apply this standard for the Group’s 31 December 2013 financial statements.
IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ (effective 1 January 2013) establishes principles for financial reporting by parties to a joint arrangement. The Group will apply 
this standard for the Group’s 31 December 2013 financial statements.
IFRS 12 ‘Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities’ (effective 1 January 2013) requires an entity to disclose information that enables users of financial 
statements to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, its interests in other entities and the effects of those interests on its financial position, 
financial performance and cash flows. The Group will apply this standard for the Group’s 31 December 2013 financial statements.
IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ (effective 1 January 2013) explains how to measure fair value for financial reporting. The Group will apply this standard 
for the Group’s 31 December 2013 financial statements.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of these standards and amendments will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group 
in future periods. 68 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Consolidated income statement / for the year ended 31 December 201 1
2011 2010
Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Sales revenue 1 588,971 523,935
Cost of sales (414,207) (373,402)
Gross profit 174,764 150,533
Other administrative expenses (141,156) (119,213) 
Operating result before amortisation of acquisition intangibles and exceptional items 33,608 31,320 
Exceptional items 7 (3,094) (2,450) 
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 12 (7 ,783) (10,119) 
Total administrative costs (152,033) (131,782)
Operating profit 22,731 18,751
Finance income 4 484 63
Finance costs 4 (2,633) (2,462)
Profit for the year before tax 2 20,582 16,352
Tax expense 8 (3,668) (1,588)
Net profit for the year 16,914 14,764
Earnings per share
Basic 10 19.87p 17 .70p
Diluted 10 19.03p 16.57p
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.  69 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
Financial statements / Consolidated statement of comprehensive income / for the year ended 31 December 201 1
Note
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Net result for the year 16,914 14,764
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Cash flow hedges:
– losses arising in the year (1,463) —
– reclassification to Income Statement 204 —
Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit pension scheme 26 846 (3,651)
(Decrease)/increase in deferred tax asset in respect of defined benefit pension schemes 22 (479) 1,022
Other comprehensive expense for the year (892) (2,629)
Total comprehensive income for the year 16,022 12,135
Attributable to:
– equity holders of the parent 16,022 12,135
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 70 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Consolidated balance sheet / as at 31 December 201 1 / Company number: 3232863
Note
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Assets
Non-current
Goodwill 11 101,030 97 ,405
Intangible assets 12 26,449 27 ,136
Property, plant and equipment 13 12,681 12,113
Deferred tax asset 22 7 ,379 8,056
Trade and other receivables 17 2,384 1,929
149,923 146,639
Current 
Inventories 15 12,541 12,147
Trade and other receivables 17 125,095 109,765
Cash at bank and in hand 46,571 21,757
184,207 143,669
Total assets 334,130 290,308
Equity
Equity attributable to the shareholders of Mears Group PLC
Called up share capital 23 857 848
Share premium account 33,554 33,243
Share-based payment reserve 2,965 2,905
Hedging reserve (1,259) —
Merger reserve 38,243 38,243
Retained earnings 77 ,425 66,315
Total equity 151,785 141,554
Liabilities
Non-current
Pension and other employee benefits 26 5,840 7 ,693
Deferred tax liabilities 22 5,297 6,983
Financing liabilities 19 1,325 —
Other liabilities 20 879 959
13,341 15,635
Current
Short-term borrowings and overdrafts 60,000 34,000
Trade and other payables 18 105,916 97 ,879
Financing liabilities 19 403 —
Current tax liabilities 2,685 1,240
Current liabilities 169,004 133,119
Total liabilities 182,345 148,754
Total equity and liabilities 334,130 290,308
The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors and were signed on its behalf on 27 March 2012.
R Holt  A C M Smith
Director  Director
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements.  71 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
Financial statements / Consolidated cash flow statement / for the year ended 31 December 201 1
Note
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Operating activities
Result for the year before tax 20,582 16,352
Adjustments 24 14,046 17 ,799
Change in inventories (394) 5,588
Change in trade and other receivables (13,340) (13,835)
Change in trade and other payables 5,026 431
Cash flow from operating activities before taxation before effect of acquired contracts 25,920 26,335
Change in working capital from acquired contracts (2,820) —
Cash flow from operating activities before taxation 23,100 26,335
Taxes paid (4,615) (6,599)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 18,485 19,736
Investing activities
Additions to property, plant and equipment (3,991) (2,935)
Additions to other intangible assets (1,419) (920)
Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment 208 243
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking, net of cash (5,771) (28,122)
Disposal of business activities, net of cash — 986
Interest received — 2
Net cash outflow from investing activities (10,973) (30,746)
Financing activities
Proceeds from share issue 320 743
Discharge of finance lease liability (86) (557)
Interest paid (2,970) (2,851)
Dividends paid (5,962) (5,079)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (8,698) (7 ,744)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year (12,243) 6,511
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (1,186) (18,754)
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year (13,429) (12,243)
Cash and cash equivalents is comprised as follows:
– cash at bank and in hand 46,571 21,757
– short-term borrowings and overdrafts (60,000) (34,000)
Cash and cash equivalents (13,429) (12,243)
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 72 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Consolidated statement of changes in equity / for the year ended 31 December 201 1
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
 account
£’000
Share-based
payment
 reserve
£’000
Hedging
reserve
£’000
Merger
reserve
£’000
Retained
 earnings
£’000
Total
equity
£’000
At 1 January 2010 744 32,505 2,649 — 11,548 58,482 105,928
Net profit for the year — — — — — 14,764 14,764
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
– deferred tax on pension obligation — — — — — 1,022 1,022
– actuarial loss on pension and other employee benefits — — — — — (3,651) (3,651)
Total comprehensive income for the year — — — — — 12,135 12,135
Deferred tax on share-based payments — — — — — 283 283
Issue of shares 104 738 — — 26,695 — 27 ,537
Share option charges — — 750 — — — 750
Exercise of share options — — (494) — — 494 —
Dividends — — — — — (5,079) (5,079)
At 1 January 2011 848 33,243 2,905 — 38,243 66,315 141,554
Net profit for the year — — — — — 16,914 16,914
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
– cash flow hedge — — — (1,259) — — (1,259)
– deferred tax on pension obligation — — — — — (479) (479)
– actuarial gain on pension and other employee benefits — — — — — 846 846
Total comprehensive income for the year — — — (1,259) — 17 ,281 16,022
Deferred tax on share-based payments — — — — — (349) (349)
Issue of shares 9 311 — — — — 320
Share option charges — — 200 — — — 200
Exercise of share options — — (140) — — 140 —
Dividends — — — — — (5,962) (5,962)
At 31 December 2011 857 33,554 2,965 (1,259) 38,243 77 ,425 151,785
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 73 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Group 
1. Segment reporting
Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s operating segments. Segments are determined by reference to the internal reports reviewed 
by the Board.
The Group operated three operating segments during the year:
// Social Housing – services within this sector comprise a full repairs and maintenance service to Local Authorities and other Registered Social Landlords;
// Care – services within this sector comprise personal care services to people in their own homes; and
// Other – services within this sector comprise provision of design and build M&E services.
All of the Group’s activities are carried out within the United Kingdom and the Group’s principal reporting to its chief operating decision maker is not 
segmented by geography.
The principal financial measures used by the chief operating decision maker and the Board to review the performance of the operating segments is that 
of revenue growth and operating margins in both the core divisions of Social Housing and Care. The operating result utilised within the key performance 
measures is stated before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, exceptional items and share-based payments.
2011 2010
Business segments
Social
Housing
£’000
Care
£’000
Other
 £’000
Total
£’000
Social
Housing
£’000
Care
£’000
Other
 £’000
Total
£’000
Revenue 415,000 108,518 65,453 588,971 379,400 100,358 44,177 523,935
Operating result pre amortisation of 
acquisition intangibles, exceptional items 
and share-based payment 23,866 8,674 1,268 33,808 22,896 7 ,532 1,642 32,070
Operating margin pre amortisation of  
acquisition intangibles, exceptional items  
and share-based payment 5.8% 8.0% 1.9% 5.7% 6.0% 7 .5% 3.7% 6.1%
Share-based payment (150) (25) (25) (200) (600) (50) (100) (750)
Operating result pre amortisation of 
acquisition intangibles and exceptional items 23,716 8,649 1,243 33,608 22,296 7 ,482 1,542 31,320
All revenue and all non-current assets arise within the United Kingdom. All of the revenue reported is external to the Group. No revenue in respect of a single 
customer comprises more than 10% of the total revenue reported.
Reconciliation to the Consolidated Income Statement
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Operating result pre amortisation of acquisition intangibles and exceptional items 33,608 31,320
Exceptional items (3,094) (2,450)
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles (7 ,783) (10,119)
Finance costs, net (2,149) (2,399)
Tax expense (3,668) (1,588)
Net profit for the year 16,914 14,764 74 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
1. Segment reporting continued
Reconciliation to the Consolidated Income Statement continued
In addition the following disclosures have been provided in respect of segmental analysis required by IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’:
2011 2010
Business segments
Social
Housing
£’000
Care
£’000
Other
 £’000
Total
£’000
Social
Housing
£’000
Care
£’000
Other
 £’000
Total
£’000
Segment assets 199,416 109,248 25,466 334,130 209,126 60,178 21,004 290,308
Segment liabilities (120,289) (46,383) (15,673) (182,345) (100,979) (38,029) (9,746) (148,754)
Property, plant and equipment acquired 3,308 270 413 3,991 2,314 510 111 2,935
Depreciation 2,217 806 215 3,238 1,963 1,013 206 3,182
2. Profit for the year before tax
Profit for the year before tax is stated after:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Share-based payments 200 750
Depreciation 3,238 3,182
Amortisation 8,404 10,511
Hire of plant and machinery 3,339 2,514
Other operating lease rentals 19,586 14,503
3. Auditor’s remuneration
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Fees payable to the auditor for the audit of the Group’s financial statements 62 61
Other fees payable to the auditor in respect of:
– auditing of accounts of subsidiary undertakings pursuant to legislation 167 161
– taxation compliance fees 59 38
– taxation advice fees 1 30
Total auditor’s remuneration 289 290
4. Finance income and finance costs
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Interest charge on overdrafts and short-term loans (1,994) (920)
Interest charge on interest rate swap (205) —
Changes in mark to market of interest rate swaps (ineffective hedges) (103) (913)
Other interest (86) (216)
Finance costs on bank loans, overdrafts and finance leases (2,388) (2,049)
Interest charge on defined benefit obligation (205) (373)
Unwinding of discounting on deferred consideration (40) (40)
Total finance costs (2,633) (2,462)
Interest income resulting from short-term bank deposits — 2
Interest income resulting from defined benefit obligation 484 61
Finance income 484 63
Net finance charge (2,149) (2,399)
Interest recognised in other comprehensive income
Changes in mark to market of interest rate swaps (effective hedges) (1,679) — 75 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
5. Employees
Staff costs during the year were as follows:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Wages and salaries 205,462 189,362
Social security costs 17 ,758 15,721
Other pension costs 3,818 63
227 ,038 205,146
The average number of employees of the Group during the year was:
2011
Number
2010
Number
Site workers 2,926 2,508
Carers 5,983 6,090
Office and management 2,408 2,203
11,317 10,801
Remuneration in respect of Directors was as follows:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Emoluments 1,351 1,300
Gains made on the exercise of share options 987 —
Pension contributions to personal pension schemes 190 199
2,528 1,499
The amounts set out above include remuneration in respect of the highest paid Director as follows:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Emoluments and gains made on the exercise of share options 1,468 465
Pension contributions to personal pension schemes 105 135
During the year contributions were paid to personal pension schemes for four Directors (2010: four).
During the year one Director (2010: none) exercised share options. 76 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
6. Share-based employee remuneration
As at 31 December 2011 the Group maintained six share-based payment schemes for employee remuneration.
Details of the share options outstanding (excluding those issued under the Special Incentive Plan (SIP)) are as follows:
2011 2010
Number
‘000
Weighted 
average
exercise
 price
p
Number
‘000
Weighted 
average
exercise
price
p
Outstanding at 1 January 7 ,502 75 7 ,142 126
Granted — — 875 —
Forfeited/lapsed (817) 34 (177) 148
Exercised (843) 37 (338) 121
Outstanding at 31 December 5,842 85 7 ,502 75
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 37p. The options outstanding at 31 December 2011, 
excluding the SIP Award, were exercisable at prices between 1p and 300p and had a weighted average remaining contractual life of five years. 
The fair values of options granted were determined using the Binomial and Monte Carlo option pricing models. Significant inputs into the calculation include 
the market price at the date of grant and exercise prices. Furthermore, the calculation takes into account the future dividend yield, the share price volatility 
rate and the risk-free interest rate. 
The underlying expected share price volatility was determined by reference to historical data. The Company expects the volatility of its share price to reduce 
as it matures. The risk-free interest rate was determined by the implied yield available on a zero-coupon Government bond at the date of grant. Adjustments 
are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period due to failure to satisfy service conditions. In the case of the SAYE scheme the 
expected forfeitures takes account of the requirement to save throughout the life of the scheme. There were no options granted during the year. 0.8m options 
lapsed during the year. The market price at 31 December 2011 was 220p and the range during 2011 was 205p to 323p.
At 31 December 2011, 4.0m options had vested and were still exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of 123p.
All share-based employee remuneration will be settled in equity. The Group has no legal obligation to repurchase or settle the options.
The Group recognises the following expenses related to share-based payments:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
LTIP 120 101
Approved share option plan 1 35
Unapproved share option plan 40 108
SAYE 39 20
SIP — 486
200 750
In total, £0.2m of employee remuneration expense has been included in the Consolidated Income Statement for 2011 (2010: £0.75m), which gave rise 
to additional share-based payment reserves. No liabilities were recognised due to share-based payment transactions. 77 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
6. Share-based employee remuneration continued
The Mears Group PLC Long-term Incentive Plan 2008 (LTIP)
The LTIP was introduced in October 2008 following shareholder approval. The award of options is offered to a small number of key senior management. 
The principal terms of the LTIP are detailed below:
Principal terms of LTIP
Number of options Maximum award limit under the plan will be 200% of salary per annum.
Exercise price 1p
Performance period 3 years
Performance conditions There are two performance targets attaching to the LTIP Award.
50% of the LTIP Award will relate to an EPS growth target. The other 50% of the LTIP Award relates to the Company’s 
TSR against the return of the FTSE All Share Support Services Sector.
Expiry conditions Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options have vested.
Performance conditions of LTIP 
EPS growth target TSR target
Performance levels Level of vesting Performance levels Level of vesting
10.0% 10% Below index return 0%
12.5% 30% Equal to index 30%
17.5% 100% 10% outperformance of the index per annum 100%
The Mears Group PLC Long-term Incentive Plan 2009 (LTIP)
The LTIP was introduced in October 2008 following shareholder approval. The award of options is offered to a small number of key senior management. 
The principal terms of the LTIP are detailed below:
Principal terms of LTIP
Number of options Maximum award limit under the plan will be 200% of salary per annum.
Exercise price 1p
Performance period 3 years
Performance conditions There are two performance targets attaching to the LTIP Award.
75% of the LTIP Award will relate to an EPS growth target. The other 25% of the LTIP Award relates to the Company’s 
TSR against the return of the FTSE All Share Support Services Sector.
Expiry conditions Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options have vested.
Performance conditions of LTIP 
EPS growth target TSR target
Performance levels Level of vesting Performance levels Level of vesting
10.0% 10% Below index return 0%
12.5% 30% Equal to index 30%
15.0% 100% 10% outperformance of the index per annum 100% 78 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
6. Share-based employee remuneration continued
The Mears Group PLC Long-term Incentive Plan 2010 (LTIP)
The LTIP was introduced in October 2008 following shareholder approval. The award of options is offered to a small number of key senior management. 
The principal terms of the LTIP are detailed below:
Principal terms of LTIP
Number of options Maximum award limit under the plan will be 200% of salary per annum.
Exercise price 1p
Performance period 3 years
Performance conditions There are two performance targets attaching to the LTIP Award.
75% of the LTIP Award will relate to an EPS growth target. The other 25% of the LTIP Award relates to the Company’s 
TSR against the return of the FTSE All Share Support Services Sector.
Expiry conditions Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options have vested.
Performance conditions of LTIP 
EPS growth target TSR target
Performance levels Level of vesting Performance levels Level of vesting
8.0% 10% Below index return 0%
10.0% 30% Equal to index 30%
12.5% 100% 10% outperformance of the index per annum 100%
Approved share option plan
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date of grant. 
The vesting period is three years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire. Options are forfeited 
if the employee leaves the Mears Group before the options vest.
Enterprise management incentive plan
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date of grant. 
The vesting period is three years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire. Options are forfeited 
if the employee leaves the Mears Group before the options vest.
Unapproved share option plan
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date of grant. 
The vesting period is three years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire. Options are forfeited 
if the employee leaves the Mears Group before the options vest. With the introduction of the LTIP in 2008, the Remuneration Committee has decided that no 
further awards will be made under the unapproved share option plan.
Save As You Earn (SAYE) scheme
Options are available to all employees. Options are granted for a period of either three or five years. Options are exercisable at a price based on the quoted 
market price of the Company’s shares at the time of invitation, discounted by up to 20%. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Mears Group before 
the options vest which impacts on the number of options expected to vest. If an employee stops saving but continues in employment, this is treated as a 
cancellation which results in an acceleration of the share-based payment charge. 79 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
6. Share-based employee remuneration continued
Special Incentive Plan 2007 (SIP)
The SIP was introduced in 2007 to reward the Chief Executive Officer with premium priced options linked to long-term performance. The terms and conditions 
were subsequently amended on 3 July 2009. The principal terms of the SIP and performance conditions are detailed below:
Principal terms of SIP
Number of options 2,500,000
Exercise price 1p
Performance conditions Average real EPS growth attained over three financial years with the base period for calculating EPS being 
31 December 2006. EPS was calculated before amortisation and IFRS 2 costs. The performance was measured 
at the end of the three-year period. The performance conditions relating to this award were satisfied in full.
Vesting conditions The award vested in full in November 2010, 60% became exercisable in November 2010, 20% became exercisable 
in November 2011 and the remaining 20% will become exercisable in November 2012.
Performance conditions of SIP
Performance levels Level of vesting
5% + RPI per annum 10%
10% + RPI per annum 50%
15% + RPI per annum 100%
7. Exceptional items
Exceptional items are costs incurred in the period which are considered non-trading or non-recurring in nature. 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Costs of acquisitions 224 1,289
Costs of refinancing 890 —
Costs relating to PV 1,980 —
Costs of integration — 1,161
Exceptional items 3,094 2,450
The costs of acquisition in the period relate to the acquisition of the Supported Living division of Choices Care Community Services Limited and the acquisition 
of the trade of the Home Improvement Agency division of Anchor Trust Limited in the period. The costs of acquisition in the previous period relate to the 
acquisitions of Supporta plc and Jackson Lloyd Limited.
The costs of refinancing relate to the write off of costs relating to the Group’s previous facility.
As a direct result of the Government’s decision to substantially reduce the Photovoltaic (PV) Feed-in Tariff (FIT) subsidy, the Board took the decision to cease 
these activities immediately, as the commercial attractions that led us to explore the PV space, in the short term, no longer exist. The Board has written off 
costs relating to the site set-up, system design and installation amounting to £1.98m which are now considered irrecoverable.
The costs of integration in the previous period relate to the integration of the Careforce and Supporta Care businesses and re-branding as Mears Care. 80 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
8. Tax expense
Tax recognised in the Income Statement:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
United Kingdom Corporation Tax effective rate 22.1% (2010: 14.3%) 6,266 3,779
Adjustment in respect of previous periods (206) (159)
Total current tax recognised in Income Statement 6,060 3,620
Deferred taxation charge:
– on defined benefit pension obligations 215 1,150
– on share-based payments 54 (418)
– on accelerated capital allowances — 69
– on amortisation of acquisition intangibles (2,661) (2,833)
Total deferred taxation recognised in Income Statement (2,392) (2,032)
Total tax expense recognised in Income Statement 3,668 1,588
Results for the year before tax 20,582 16,352
Result for the year multiplied by standard rate of Corporation Tax in the United Kingdom for the period of 26.5% (2010: 28%) 5,454 4,579
Effect of:
– expenses not deductible for tax purposes 162 350
– income not subject to tax (679) (1,050)
– capital allowances in excess of depreciation 168 155
– tax relief on exercise of share options (423) (362)
– statutory tax rate changes (749) —
– tax rate difference (7) (9)
– utilisation of tax losses — (23)
– tax relief on purchased goodwill amortisation (52) (1,893)
– adjustment in respect of prior periods (206) (159)
Actual tax expense, net 3,668 1,588
Deferred tax recognised directly in equity
Deferred taxation charge:
– on defined benefit pension obligations 479 (1,022)
– on share-based payments 349 (283)
– on cash flow hedges (420) — 
Total deferred taxation recognised in equity 408 (1,305)
Total tax
Total current tax 6,060 3,620
Total deferred tax (1,984) (3,337) 81 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
9. Dividends
The following dividends were paid on ordinary shares in the year:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Final 2010 dividend of 4.85p (2010: final 2009 dividend of 4.10p) per share 4,123 3,469
Interim 2011 dividend of 2.15p (2010: interim 2010 dividend of 1.90p) per share 1,839 1,610
5,962 5,079
The proposed final 2011 dividend of 5.35p per share has not been included within the consolidated financial statements as no obligation existed 
at 31 December 2011.
10. Earnings per share
Basic Diluted
2011
p
2010
p
2011
p
2010
p
Earnings per share 19.87 17 .70 19.03 16.57
Effect of amortisation of acquisition intangibles 9.14 12.13 8.75 11.36
Effect of full tax adjustment (4.52) (6.98) (4.33) (6.54)
Effect of exceptional items (including tax impact) 2.67 2.11 2.56 1.99
Normalised earnings per share 27 .16 24.96 26.01 23.38
A normalised EPS is disclosed in order to show performance undistorted by amortisation of intangibles. The Group defines normalised earnings as excluding 
the amortisation of acquisition intangibles, exceptional items and adjusted to reflect a full tax charge of 26.5%. The profit attributable to shareholders before 
and after adjustments for both basic and diluted EPS is:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Profit attributable to shareholders: 16,914 14,764
– amortisation of acquisition intangibles 7 ,783 10,119
– full tax adjustment (3,848) (5,824)
– exceptional items (including tax impact) 2,274 1,764
Normalised earnings 23,123 20,823
The calculation of EPS is based on a weighted average of ordinary shares in issue during the year. The diluted EPS is based on a weighted average of ordinary 
shares calculated in accordance with IAS 33 ‘Earnings per Share’, which assumes that all dilutive options will be exercised. The additional normalised basic and 
diluted EPS use the same weighted average number of shares as the basic and diluted EPS.
2011
Millions
2010
Millions
Weighted average number of shares in issue: 85.14 83.42
– dilutive effect of share options 3.75 5.66
Weighted average number of shares for calculating diluted earnings per share 88.89 89.08 82 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
11. Goodwill
Goodwill 
arising on
consolidation
£’000
Purchased
goodwill
£’000
Total
£’000
Gross carrying amount
At 1 January 2010 51,987 406 52,393
Additions 44,378 — 44,378
Revision 996 — 996
Disposals (362) — (362)
At 1 January 2011 96,999 406 97 ,405
Additions 3,593 — 3,593
Revision 32 — 32
At 31 December 2011 100,624 406 101,030
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 January 2010, at 1 January 2011 and at 31 December 2011 — — —
Carrying amount 
At 31 December 2011 100,624 406 101,030
At 31 December 2010 96,999 406 97 ,405
Goodwill on consolidation arises on the excess of cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired on purchase of a company.
Purchased goodwill arises on the excess of cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired on the purchase of the trade and assets of a business 
by the Company.
Additions to goodwill arising on consolidation are detailed within note 25.
Revisions totalling £0.03m relate to reductions to the estimated fair value of assets acquired. The reduction in fair value of assets acquired relates to costs not 
accrued at the time of the acquisition. The revisions are not considered sufficiently material to warrant the restatement of the prior year provisional balances.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are any indications that goodwill may be impaired. 
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to groups of CGUs according to the level at which management monitors that goodwill. Goodwill 
is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The carrying value of goodwill is primarily comprised of the following CGUs:
Goodwill 
arising on
consolidation
£’000
Purchased
goodwill
£’000
Total
£’000
Social Housing 22,840 406 23,246
Care 77 ,784 — 77 ,784
Other Services — — —
100,624 406 101,030
An asset is impaired if its carrying value exceeds the unit’s recoverable amount which is based upon value-in-use. At 31 December 201 1 impairment reviews were 
performed by comparing the carrying value of the CGU with the value-in-use of the CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated. The value-in-use is calculated 
based upon the cash flow projections of the latest one-year budget forecast extrapolated for nine years by a growth rate applicable to each unit and an 
appropriate terminal value based on a perpetuity. 83 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
11. Goodwill continued
The rates used were as follows:
Post tax
discount
rate
Pre tax
discount
rate
Growth
rates
 (years 1–5)
Growth
rates
 (years 6–10)
Terminal
growth
rate
Social Housing 10.5% 13.2% 5.0% 2.5% 2.5%
Care 10.7% 13.4% 5.0% 2.5% 2.5%
The estimated growth rates are based on past experience and knowledge of the individual sector’s markets.
Social Housing
The contracts awarded within the Social Housing area are significant in size and the contract terms are typically three to ten years in duration. The record 
of Mears in retaining contracts on expiry is typically over 90%. The impairment reviews have always taken a particularly prudent stance and incorporated 
a minimal growth assumption.
Budgeted operating profits during the budget period are estimated by reference to the average operating margins achieved in the period immediately before 
the start of the budget period. There is no inclusion for any anticipated efficiency improvements.
The Directors consider that reasonably possible changes in these key assumptions would not cause a unit’s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount. 
The table below shows the sensitivity to simultaneous changes in the discount rate and the long-term growth rate.
Terminal growth rate
Discount rate 1.50% 2.00% 2.50% 3.00% 3.50%
8.5% 170,075 183,242 198,602 216,753 238,533
9.0% 153,649 164,770 177 ,601 192,569 210,257
9.5% 139,284 148,769 159,607 172,112 186,699
10.0% 126,618 134,776 144,020 154,583 166,771
10.5% 115,367 122,436 130,387 139,397 149,693
11.0% 105,308 111,473 118,363 126,114 134,897
11.5% 96,261 101,671 107 ,681 114,398 121,954
12.0% 88,081 92,854 98,128 103,988 110,536
12.5% 80,651 84,882 89,535 94,678 100,391
The table below shows sensitivity to simultaneous changes in the explicit growth rate (2012–2016) and the long-term growth rate.
Terminal growth rate
2012–2016 annual growth rate 1.50% 2.00% 2.50% 3.00% 3.50%
1.0% 95,768 101,819 108,626 116,340 125,155
2.0% 100,469 106,763 113,844 121,868 131,037
3.0% 105,301 111,846 119,208 127 ,551 137 ,085
4.0% 110,266 117 ,069 124,721 133,393 143,303
5.0% 115,367 122,436 130,387 139,397 149,693
6.0% 120,607 127 ,949 136,207 145,565 156,260
7.0% 125,988 133,611 142,185 151,902 163,005
8.0% 131,513 139,425 148,324 158,409 169,934
9.0% 137 ,185 145,393 154,627 165,090 177 ,048
Care
The care market is becoming increasingly sophisticated and the expectation of management is for significant consolidation within the sector, offering an 
opportunity to achieve significant organic growth. Each year, Local Authorities spend in excess of £2 billion on care. The Directors believe that future growth 
is underpinned by a number of factors including the increasingly ageing population in the United Kingdom and the increased desire of the elderly to lead 
independent lives. Local Authorities’ expenditure on homecare for the elderly has grown rapidly over recent years, averaging 10% per year since 2003. The amount 
outsourced to independent providers has also risen sharply from 59% in 2001 to in excess of 81% today. It is the Directors’ belief that this trend will continue. 84 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
11. Goodwill continued
Care continued
The market is highly fragmented with an estimated 4,900 independent providers of homecare services. The increasing regulation in this sector is also 
expected by the Directors to continue, leading to increased consolidation. Furthermore, the Directors believe that the care sector will evolve towards a 
partnership approach similar to that of the Social Housing sector and Mears has already begun to see examples of such an approach with its customers. 
The Directors believe that stakeholders at all levels could benefit from this long-term investment approach.
The Directors believe that there are a number of developments in Government thinking which are likely to improve the prospects for the Care sector. Most notably, 
the Dillnot Review commissioned by the Department of Health last year to look at the future funding of adult care reported in the autumn of 201 1. If accepted in 
full, this would lead to an additional initial spend on Care and Support of £1.3 billion, rising to as much as £3 billion in future years. Realistically, the Government 
may well scale back on this ambition within the Spring White Paper but the direction of travel should be positive. The Government faces significant lobbying from 
numerous organisations, concerning the state of care, most recently from the Equality and Human Rights Commission report of November 201 1. 
The impairment reviews have incorporated a growth assumption of 5.0% which the Directors believe to be realistic given the tremendous growth 
opportunities within Care. 
Budgeted operating profits during the budget period are estimated by reference to the average operating margins achieved in the period immediately 
before the start of the budget period. There is no inclusion for any anticipated efficiency improvements.
The Directors consider that the Care value-in-use is most sensitive to changes in the terminal growth rate. The sensitivity of the calculated value-in-use to changes 
in explicit growth rate, terminal growth rate and discount rate is shown in the table below. The shaded values indicate situations which would result in impairment.
The table below shows the sensitivity to simultaneous changes in the discount rate and the long-term growth rate.
Terminal growth rate
Discount rate 1.50% 2.00% 2.50% 3.00% 3.50%
8.7% 30,346 37 ,269 45,310 54,760 66,028
9.2% 22,145 28,045 34,826 42,700 51,955
9.7% 14,948 20,022 25,801 32,442 40,153
10.2% 8,581 12,980 17 ,951 23,611 30,115
10.7% 2,909 6,750 11,060 15,928 21,473
11.2% (2,175) 1,200 4,963 9,184 13,954
11.7% (6,759) (3,776) (470) 3,217 7 ,353
12.2% (10,913) (8,263) (5,340) (2,100) 1,513
12.7% (14,693) (12,328) (9,732) (6,868) (3,692)
It is only when a simultaneous unfavourable change of greater than 0.5% occurs in both the terminal growth rate and the discount rate that the headroom falls below zero.
The table below shows sensitivity to simultaneous changes in the explicit growth rate (2012–2016) and the long-term growth rate.
Terminal growth rate
2012–2016 annual growth rate 1.50% 2.00% 2.50% 3.00% 3.50%
1.0% (8,824) (5,575) (1,931) 2,187 6,877
2.0% (6,014) (2,624) 1,180 5,477 10,370
3.0% (3,122) 414 4,380 8,862 13,966
4.0% (149) 3,538 7 ,673 12,345 17 ,666
5.0% 2,909 6,750 11,060 15,928 21,473
6.0% 6,053 10,054 14,542 19,612 25,387
7.0% 9,284 13,449 18,121 23,400 29,412
8.0% 12,604 16,938 21,800 27 ,293 33,549
9.0% 16,015 20,522 25,579 31,293 37 ,800
It is only when a simultaneous unfavourable change of greater than approximately 1.0% occurs in both the terminal growth rate and the explicit forecast 
period growth rate that the headroom falls below zero. 85 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
12. Other intangible assets
Acquisition intangibles Other intangibles
Client
relationships
£’000
Order
book
£’000
Total
acquisition
intangibles
£’000
Development
expenditure
£’000
Intellectual
property
£’000
Total
other
intangibles
£’000
Total
intangibles
£’000
Gross carrying amount
At 1 January 2010 18,671 7 ,177 25,848 1,736 224 1,960 27 ,808
Acquired on acquisition 13,466 6,453 19,919 — — — 19,919
Additions — — — 920 — 920 920
Disposals (405) (81) (486) — — — (486)
At 1 January 2011 31,732 13,549 45,281 2,656 224 2,880 48,161
Acquired on acquisition 4,214 — 4,214 — — — 4,214
Revision 2,084 — 2,084 — — — 2,084
Additions — — — 1,419 — 1,419 1,419
At 31 December 2011 38,030 13,549 51,579 4,075 224 4,299 55,878
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2010 6,773 3,562 10,335 356 45 401 10,736
Amortisation charge for period 6,891 3,228 10,119 347 45 392 10,511
Disposals (184) (38) (222) — — — (222)
At 1 January 2011 13,480 6,752 20,232 703 90 793 21,025
Amortisation charge for period 5,535 2,248 7 ,783 577 44 621 8,404
At 31 December 2011 19,015 9,000 28,015 1,280 134 1,414 29,429
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2011 19,015 4,549 23,564 2,795 90 2,885 26,449
At 31 December 2010 18,252 6,797 25,049 1,953 134 2,087 27 ,136
Development expenditure relates to the development of the Group’s Social Housing job management system and the Group’s Care management system. 
This is amortised over its useful economic life of 5.0 years. The weighted average remaining economic life of the asset is 4.1 years (2010: 4.1 years).
Intellectual property is amortised over its useful economic life of 5.0 years. The weighted average remaining economic life is 3.0 years.
Amortisation of development expenditure is included within other administrative expenses. Amortisation of acquisition intangibles is disclosed individually.
The value placed on the order book is based upon the cash flow projections over the contracts in place when a business is acquired. Due to uncertainties with 
trying to forecast revenues beyond the contract term, the Directors have taken a measure of prudence and value contracts over the contractual term only. 
The value of the order book is amortised over its remaining life.
The value placed on the customer relationships are based upon the non-contractual expected cash inflows. These cash flow projections assume a customer 
attrition rate of 5% based upon three-year historic trends.
Additions to intangible assets arising on consolidation are detailed within note 25.
Revisions totalling £2.1m relate to reductions to the estimated fair value of assets acquired in the previous year. A reduction in fair value of assets acquired in 
respect of the acquisition of Jackson Lloyd Limited of £1.8m relates to provisions and costs not accrued at the time of the acquisition. A reduction of fair value 
of assets acquired in respect of the acquisition of the social housing business assets of the Bristol social housing division of Rok Building Limited of £0.3m 
relates to costs not accrued at the time of the acquisition. The revisions are not considered sufficiently material to warrant the restatement of the prior year 
provisional balances. 86 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
13. Property, plant and equipment
 
Leasehold
improvements
£’000
Plant and
machinery
£’000
Fixtures,
fittings and
equipment
£’000
 
Motor 
vehicles
£’000
 
Total
£’000
Gross carrying amount
At 1 January 2010 5,354 2,418 15,271 3,670 26,713
Additions 1,021 163 1,744 7 2,935
Acquired on acquisition 1,061 754 4,152 46 6,013
Disposals (66) (483) (553) (1,005) (2,107)
Disposal of subsidiary undertaking — — (914) (29) (943)
At 1 January 2011 7 ,370 2,852 19,700 2,689 32,611
Additions 1,407 336 2,231 17 3,991
Disposals (564) — — (1,335) (1,899)
At 31 December 2011 8,213 3,188 21,931 1,371 34,703
Depreciation
At 1 January 2010 1,902 1,770 7 ,951 2,948 14,571
Provided in the year 700 115 2,227 140 3,182
Acquired on acquisition 1,016 733 3,210 46 5,005
Eliminated on disposals (10) (469) (472) (819) (1,770)
Eliminated on disposals of subsidiary undertaking — — (461) (29) (490)
At 1 January 2011 3,608 2,149 12,455 2,286 20,498
Provided in the year 916 168 2,085 69 3,238
Eliminated on disposals (564) — — (1,150) (1,714)
At 31 December 2011 3,960 2,317 14,540 1,205 22,022
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2011 4,253 871 7 ,391 166 12,681
At 31 December 2010 3,762 703 7 ,245 403 12,113
The figures stated above include assets held under finance leases as follows:
Plant and 
machinery
£’000
Net book amount
At 31 December 2011 —
At 31 December 2010 —
Depreciation provided in the year — 87 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
14. Investments
The principal undertakings within the Group at 31 December 2011 are shown below:
Proportion held Nature of business
Mears Limited 100% Provision of maintenance services
Haydon Mechanical & Electrical Limited 100% Provision of M&E services
Scion Technical Services Limited 100% Provision of M&E services
Scion Estates Limited 100% Provision of grounds maintenance
Jackson Lloyd Limited 100% Provision of maintenance services
Mears Home Improvements Limited 100% Provision of maintenance services
Mears Care Limited 100% Provision of care and support
Mears Care (Northern Ireland) Limited 100% Provision of care and support
Mears Care (Scotland) Limited 100% Provision of care and support
Terraquest Solutions Limited 100% Provision of professional services
Mears Insurance Captive Limited 99.99% Provision of insurance services
All material subsidiary undertakings prepare accounts to 31 December. All material subsidiary undertakings are registered in England and Wales with 
the exception of Mears Insurance Captive Limited which is registered in Guernsey, Mears Care (Northern Ireland) which is registered in Northern Ireland 
and Mears Care (Scotland) which is registered in Scotland.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings is available from the Company Secretary upon request.
15. Inventories 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Materials and consumables 2,411 1,778
Work in progress 10,130 10,369
12,541 12,147
The Group consumed inventories totalling £4 14.2m during the year (2010: £303.3m). No items are being carried at fair value less costs to sell (2010: £nil).
16. Construction contracts
Revenue of £74.2m (2010: £51.4m) relating to construction contracts has been included in the Consolidated Income Statement.
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Contract costs incurred 59,368 38,091
Recognised gross profits 14,829 13,344
Recognised gross losses — —
74,197 51,435
Balances outstanding comprise:
– retentions 4,965 3,976
– due from customers for construction contract work 5,799 1,690
– due to customers for construction contract work (750) (72)
Retentions will be payable upon acceptance of the work performed by the customer. Retentions are included in ‘Trade receivables’. The amounts due 
to customers for construction work are included in ‘Trade and other payables’. 88 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
17. Trade and other receivables
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Current assets:
– trade receivables 56,940 53,543
– amounts recoverable on construction contracts 5,799 1,690
– amounts recoverable on non-construction contracts 57 ,880 50,235
– prepayments and accrued income 4,476 4,297
125,095 109,765
Non-current assets:
– trade receivables 2,384 1,929
Total trade and other receivables 127 ,479 111,694
Trade receivables are normally due within 30 to 60 days and do not bear any effective interest rate. All trade receivables are subject to credit risk exposure. 
Social Housing customers are typically Local Authorities and Housing Associations where credit risk is minimal. Care customers are typically County Councils 
where credit risk is minimal. Included in trade receivables is an amount of £2.4m (2010: £1.9m) which is due after more than one year and represents 
retention balances.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Neither impaired nor past due 49,831 45,708
Less than three months past due but not impaired 6,246 6,354
More than three months but not impaired 3,247 3,410
Total trade and other receivables 59,324 55,472
18. Trade and other payables
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Trade payables 67 ,898 56,103
Accruals and deferred income 14,502 19,612
Social security and other taxes 17 ,464 15,986
Due to customers for construction contract work 750 72
Due to customers for non-construction contract work 684 607
Other creditors 4,580 5,375
Amounts due under finance lease contracts 38 124
105,916 97 ,879
The fair value of trade payables has not been disclosed as, due to their short duration, management considers the carrying amounts recognised in the 
Balance Sheet to be a reasonable approximation of their fair value.
The amounts due under construction contract work will generally be utilised within the next reporting period.
The amounts due under finance lease contracts are secured on the assets to which they relate.
Included in other creditors is £1.98m (2010: £1.86m) relating to deferred consideration on acquisitions. 89 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
19. Financing liabilities
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Current liabilities:
– cash flow hedge 403 —
403 —
Non-current liabilities:
– cash flow hedge 1,325 —
Total financing liabilities 1,728 —
20. Long-term other liabilities
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Other creditors 879 959
Included in other creditors is £0.88m (2010: £0.96m) relating to deferred consideration on acquisitions.
21. Financial instruments
The Group uses a limited number of financial instruments comprising cash and liquid resources, borrowings and various items such as trade receivables and 
trade payables that arise directly from its operations. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Group’s operations. The Group seeks 
to finance its operations through a combination of retained earnings and borrowings and investing surplus cash on deposit. The Group uses financial 
instruments to manage the interest rate risks arising from its operations and sources of finance but has no interests in the trade of financial instruments.
Categories of financial instruments
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Financial assets
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables 59,324 55,472
Amounts recoverable on contracts 63,679 51,925
Cash at bank and in hand 46,571 21,757
169,574 129,154
Financial liabilities
Fair value (level 2)
Interest rate swaps – ineffective — (1,030)
Interest rate swaps – effective (1,728) —
Amortised cost
Short-term borrowings and overdrafts (60,000) (34,000)
Deferred consideration in respect of acquisitions (2,861) (2,820)
Trade payables (67 ,898) (56,103)
Accruals (14,502) (19,612)
Other creditors (2,598) (3,514)
(149,587) (117 ,079)
19,987 12,075
The IFRS 7 level categorisation relates to the extent the fair value can be determined by reference to comparable market values. The classifications range 
from level 1, where instruments are quoted on an active market, through to level 3, where the assumptions used to arrive at fair value do not have comparable 
market data. The fair values of interest rate swaps have been calculated by a third party expert discounting estimated future cash flows on the basis of 
market expectations of future interest rates (level 2). There have been no transfers between levels during the year. 90 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
21. Financial instruments continued
Fair value information
The fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities is as disclosed above and equals the book value with the exception of the deferred consideration 
in respect of acquisitions where the book value is £2.7m.
Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including interest rate risk and price risk); credit risk; and liquidity risk. The main risks 
faced by the Group relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs and the risk of credit default by customers. The Group’s overall risk management 
programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance.
Risk management is carried out under policies and guidelines approved by the Board of Directors. 
Borrowing facilities
The Group’s borrowing facilities are drawn on as required to manage its cash needs. Banking facilities are reviewed regularly and extended and replaced 
in advance of their expiry.
The Group had total borrowing facilities of £120m with Barclays Bank plc and HSBC plc, of which £60m was utilised at 31 December 2011.
The facilities comprise a committed five-year £110.0m revolving credit facility and an unsecured overdraft facility of £10.0m. The undrawn amounts 
at 31 December 2011 were a £50.0m revolving credit facility and overdraft facility of £10.0m.
The Group’s borrowings are secured by a fixed and floating charge over all of the Group’s assets.
Interest rate risk management
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings from major banking institutions at floating rates of interest 
based on LIBOR. The Group’s exposure to interest rates fluctuations on borrowings is managed through the use of interest rate swaps; hence the fixed rate 
borrowings relate to floating rate loans where the interest rate has been fixed by a hedging arrangement. The fair value of interest rate exposure on financial 
liabilities of the Group as at 31 December 2011 was:
Interest rate
Fixed 
£’000
Floating 
£’000
Zero 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Financial liabilities – 2011 55,038 5,000 2,860 62,898
Financial liabilities – 2010 26,064 8,060 2,820 36,944
The Group’s policy is to accept a degree of interest rate risk, provided the effects of the various potential changes in rates remain within certain 
prescribed parameters.
Accordingly, the group has hedged the first £55m of the £120m revolving credit facility by entering into interest rate swap arrangements with Barclays 
and HSBC. This consists of two £27 .5m swap contracts expiring in August 2016 with quarterly maturity, matching the underlying facility. The Group has 
designated this as two separate hedges of £45m and £10m respectively of the underlying borrowing for the purpose of hedge accounting under IAS 39.
The maturity of the interest rate swap contracts is as follows:
2011 2010
Nominal
amount
hedged
£’000
Applicable
interest rates
%
Nominal
amount
hedged
£’000
Applicable
interest rates
%
Within one year — — 12,200 5.45%
1–2 years — — — —
2–5 years 55,000 1.95% 15,000 2.95%
More than five years — — — — 91 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
21. Financial instruments continued
Effective interest rates
Interest rate swaps with fair value liabilities of £1.7m (2010: £1.0m) and remaining lives of four years eight months have been accounted for in creditors.
The Group’s overall average cost of debt, including effective and ineffective interest rate swaps, is 3.6% as at 31 December 2011 (2010: 6.0%). Excluding these 
swaps the average is 2.8% (2010: 3.2%).
Cash flow hedging reserve
The cash flow hedging reserve comprises all gains and losses arising from the valuation of interest swap contracts which are effective hedges and mature after 
the year end. These are valued on a mark-to-market basis, are accounted for through the Statement of Comprehensive Income and are recycled through the 
Consolidated Income Statement when the hedged item affects the Consolidated Income Statement. The interest rate swap contract has quarterly maturity 
and expires in August 2016.
Movements during the year were:
£’000
At 1 January 2010 —
Amounts transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement —
Revaluations during the year —
Deferred tax movement —
At 1 January 2011 —
Amounts transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement 204
Revaluations during the year (1,883)
Deferred tax movement 420
At 31 December 2011 1,259
At 31 December 2011 the Group had minimal exposure to movement in interest rates as the remaining interest rate risk was offset by the Group’s cash 
and short-term deposits.
If the interest rates had been 0.5% higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit before taxation for the year ended 
31 December 2010 and reserves would decrease or increase by £0.2m.
Liquidity risk management
The main financial risks of the Group relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs.
The Group seeks to manage liquidity risk by ensuring sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity reserve (comprising undrawn borrowing facilities and cash and cash equivalents) on the basis 
of expected cash flows. This is generally carried out at a local level in the operating companies of the Group in accordance with practice and limits set by the 
Group. These limits vary by location and take into account the liquidity and nature of the market in which the entity operates. 
The quantum of committed borrowing facilities of the Group is regularly reviewed and is designed to exceed forecasted peak gross debt levels. For short-term 
working capital purposes, the Group utilises bank overdrafts as required. These facilities are regularly reviewed and are renegotiated ahead of their expiry date. 92 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
21. Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk management continued
The table below shows the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities:
Within
1 year
£’000
1–2
years
£’000
2–5
years
£’000
Over 5
years
£’000
Total
£’000
2011
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
Short-term bank borrowings 60,000 — — — 60,000
Finance leases 38 — — — 38
Deferred contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions 1,861 879 — — 2,740
Derivative financial liabilities:
Interest rate swaps – effective 403 354 971 — 1,728
Interest rate swaps – ineffective — — — — —
2010
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
Short-term bank borrowings 34,000 — — — 34,000
Finance leases 124 — — — 124
Deferred contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions 1,861 959 — — 2,820
Derivative financial liabilities:
Interest rate swaps – effective — — — — —
Interest rate swaps – ineffective 1,030 — — — 1,030
Credit risk management
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables, amounts recoverable on contracts and work in progress. The amounts presented 
in the Balance Sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Group’s management based on prior experience and the current 
economic environment.
Trade receivables are normally due within 30 to 60 days. Trade and other receivables included in the Balance Sheet are stated net of a bad debt provision 
which has been estimated by management following a review of individual receivable accounts. There is no Group-wide rate of provision and provision made 
for debts that are overdue is based on prior default experience and known factors at the balance sheet date. Receivables are written off against the bad debt 
provision when management considers that the debt is no longer recoverable.
Social Housing customers are typically Local Authorities and Housing Associations. Care customers are typically County Councils. Any credit risk within the 
M&E division is insured. Other trade receivables contain no specific concentration of credit risk as the amounts recognised represent a large number of 
receivables from various customers.
The Group continually monitors the position of major customers and incorporates this information into its credit risk controls. External credit ratings are 
obtained where appropriate.
Details of the ageing of trade receivables are shown in note 17 . 93 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
21. Financial instruments continued
Deferred contingent consideration
The table below shows the movements in deferred contingent consideration:
 Total
£’000
At 1 January 2010 3,031
Increase due to new acquisitions in the year 1,000
Adjustments to estimated contingent consideration payable (1,297)
Paid in respect of acquisitions 46
Unwinding of discounting 40
At 1 January 2011 2,820
Increase due to new acquisitions in the year 400
Paid in respect of acquisitions (399)
Unwinding of discounting 40
At 31 December 2011 2,861
Deferred contingent consideration represents an estimate of future consideration likely to be payable in respect of acquisitions. Deferred contingent 
consideration is discounted for the likelihood of payment and for the time value of money. Deferred contingent consideration becomes payable based upon 
the profitability of acquired businesses or in the case of one specific acquisition the utilisation of certain timing differences in respect of Corporation Tax. 
Information as to the likely timing of payments in respect of these provisions is provided earlier within this note.
Capital maintenance
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are:
//  to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders; 
// to provide an adequate return to shareholders by pricing products and services commensurately with the level of risk; and
// to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group sets the amount of capital in proportion to risk. The Group manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in 
economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the 
amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net funds as disclosed below and equity as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity. 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents is comprised as follows:
– cash at bank and in hand 46,571 21,757
– short-term borrowings and overdrafts (60,000) (34,000)
Cash and cash equivalents (13,429) (12,243) 94 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
22. Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is calculated on temporary differences under the liability method.
Deferred tax asset
The Group asset for deferred tax as at 31 December 2011 is £7 .4m (2010: £8.1m).
Pension
scheme
£’000
Share-based
payments
£’000
Cash flow
hedges
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2010 897 5,201 — 6,098
Acquisition of Supporta plc 1,385 — — 1,385
(Debit)/credit to Income Statement (1,150) 418 — (732)
Credit to Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity — 283 — 283
Credit to Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 1,022 — — 1,022
At 1 January 2011 2,154 5,902 — 8,056
Debit to Income Statement (215) (54) — (269)
(Debit)/credit to Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity — (349) 420 71
Debit to Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (479) — — (479)
At 31 December 2011 1,460 5,499 420 7 ,379
In accordance with IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payments’, the Group has recognised an expense for the consumption of employee services received as consideration 
for share options granted. A tax deduction will not arise until the options are exercised. The tax deduction in future periods is dependent upon the Company’s 
share price at the date of exercise. The estimated future tax deduction is based on the options’ intrinsic value at the balance sheet date.
The cumulative amount credited to the Income Statement is limited to the tax effect of the associated cumulative share-based payment expense. 
The excess has been credited directly to equity. This is presented in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The deferred tax asset that arises on pre 7 November 2002 grants, even though the grants themselves are not accounted for within the Income Statement, 
is credited directly to equity.
Unused tax losses totalling £25.3m (2010: £17 .3m) have not been recognised as the Directors do not consider that it is probable that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax liabilities
Acquisition
intangibles
£’000
Accelerated
capital
allowances
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2010 4,346 300 4,646
On acquisition intangibles acquired 5,170 69 5,239
Released in respect of amortisation (2,833) — (2,833)
Provided in respect of accelerated capital allowances — (69) (69)
At 1 January 2011 6,683 300 6,983
On change in tax rate (717) (32) (749)
On acquisition intangibles acquired 978 — 978
Released in respect of amortisation (1,947) — (1,947)
Provided in respect of accelerated capital allowances — 32 32
At 31 December 2011 4,997 300 5,297
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of the acquisition and amortised over their useful 
economic lives. The UK tax regime calculates tax using the individual financial statements of the members of the Group and not the consolidated accounts. 
Hence, the tax base of acquisition intangible assets is £nil. The estimated tax effect of this £nil tax base is accounted for as a deferred tax liability which 
is released over the period of amortisation of the associated acquisition intangible asset. 95 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
23. Share capital and reserves
Classes of reserves
Called up share capital represents the nominal value of shares that have been issued.
Share premium represents the difference between the nominal value of shares issued and the total consideration received.
Share-based payment reserve represents employee remuneration which is credited to the share-based payment reserve until the related share options 
are exercised. Upon exercise the share-based payment reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
The merger reserve relates to the difference between the nominal value and total consideration in respect of acquisitions, where the Company was entitled 
to the merger relief offered by the Companies Act.
Share capital
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
At 1 January 84,815,470 (2010: 74,391,610) ordinary shares of 1p each 848 744
Issue of nil (2010: 9,942,323) shares on acquisition of Supporta plc — 99
Issue of 843,293 (2010: 481,537) shares on exercise of share options 9 5
At 31 December 85,658,763 (2010: 84,815,470 ) ordinary shares of 1p each 857 848
843,293 (2010: 481,537) ordinary 1p shares were issued in respect of share options exercised. The difference between the nominal value of £0.01m and the 
total consideration of £0.32m has been credited to the share premium account.
During 2010 9,942,323 ordinary 1p shares were issued in respect of the acquisition of Supporta plc, with the difference between the nominal value of £0.9m 
and the total consideration of £26.7m being credited to the merger reserve.
24. Notes to the Consolidated cash flow statement
The following non-operating cash flow adjustments have been made to the pre tax result for the year:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Depreciation 3,238 3,182
Cost of acquisitions 79 748
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (24) 94
Loss on disposal of investments — 115
Amortisation 8,404 10,511
Share-based payments 200 750
Finance income (485) (63)
Finance cost 2,634 2,462
Total 14,046 17 ,799 96 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
25. Acquisitions
The Group acquired the trade of Home Improvement Agency division of Anchor Trust Limited and the Supported Living division of Choices Care Community 
Services Limited. The acquisitions are disclosed in aggregate as the effect on the Group’s assets is not considered to be material. The effect of the 
acquisitions on the Group’s assets was as follows:
Book
value
£’000
Adjustments
£’000
Provisional 
fair
value
£’000
Liabilities
Current
Accruals — (1,136) (1,136)
Total liabilities — (1,136) (1,136)
Net assets acquired (1,136)
Intangibles capitalised 4,214
Deferred tax liability recognised in respect of intangibles capitalised (978)
Goodwill capitalised 3,593
5,693
Satisfied by:
– cash 5,293
– deferred contingent consideration 400
5,693 
The fair value adjustments above relate to costs not accrued at the time of the acquisition.
The fair value of the liabilities acquired in respect of the Supported Living division of Choices Care Community Services Limited are currently considered to 
be provisional awaiting further information in respect of certain liabilities. The fair value included above is the Directors’ best estimate of liabilities acquired.
On 4 January 2011 the Group acquired the Home Improvement Agency division of Anchor Trust for a nominal fee.
On 4 August 2011 the Group acquired the Supported Living division of Choices Care Community Services Limited for an initial consideration of £5.3m and 
deferred contingent consideration estimated to be £0.4m. The maximum deferred contingent consideration payable is £0.4m. Deferred consideration is based 
upon future rental payments. The Directors have considered the likelihood of the consideration being payable and consider that £0.4m is the appropriate 
carrying value for the liability.
The Supported Living intangible asset is recognised and valued at £3.9m. The values represent the expected value to be derived from the acquired customer 
relationships. The value placed on these customer relationships is based on the expected cash inflows. The cash flows are discounted using a rate of 16% 
which the Directors consider is commensurate with the risks associated with capturing returns from the customer relationships. The estimated life is 
assumed to be the average remaining period of the framework agreements over which earnings from the customer relationships are expected to be 
generated of three years.
The Directors consider that the value assigned to goodwill represents the workforce acquired and the access to wider geographical supported living services 
in the UK as a result of this acquisition.
The Home Improvement Agency intangible asset is recognised and valued at £0.3m. The value represents the expected value to be derived from the acquired 
order book and existing customer relationships. The estimated life is assumed to be the average remaining period of the customer contracts of two years. 97 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
25. Acquisitions continued
In the period ended 31 December 2011, the Supported Living acquisition contributed revenue of £4.2m and £0.9m operating profit before amortisation 
of intangibles.
In the period ended 31 December 2011, the Home Improvement Agency acquisition contributed turnover of £6.7m and £0.5m operating loss before 
amortisation of intangibles.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, had the acquisitions taken place on 1 January 2011, the combined Group full-year revenue for the year is estimated 
at £594.9m and the combined Group result for the year before taxation is estimated at £21.5m.
Analysis of net outflow in respect of the purchase of the subsidiary undertakings:
Total
£’000
Cash consideration (5,293)
Costs paid (79)
Cash paid in respect of prior year acquisitions (399)
(5,771)
During the year the Group paid £0.3m in respect of contingent consideration relating to acquisitions in prior periods.
26. Pensions
Defined contribution schemes
The Group operates a defined contribution Group personal pension scheme for the benefit of certain employees. The Group contributes to personal pension 
schemes of certain Directors and senior employees. The Group operates a stakeholder pension plan available to all employees. During the year, the Group 
contributed £1.7m (2010: £1.4m) to these schemes.
Defined benefit schemes
The Group contributes to 15 (2010: 13) principal defined benefit schemes on behalf of a number of employees which require contributions to be made to 
separately administered funds.
These pension schemes are operated on behalf of Mears Limited, Scion Group Limited, Mears Care Limited and their subsidiary undertakings. The assets 
of the scheme are administered by trustees in funds independent from the assets of the Group.
In certain cases, the Group will participate under Admitted Body status in the Local Government Pension Scheme. The Group will contribute for a finite period 
up until the end of the particular contract. The Group is required to pay regular contributions as detailed in the scheme’s schedule of contributions. In some 
cases these contributions are capped and any excess can be recovered from the body from which the employees originally transferred. Where the Pension 
Scheme has a contractual right to recover the costs of making good any deficit in the scheme from the Group’s client, the fair value of that asset has been 
recognised within the Group’s share of the scheme assets and disclosed on page 98. Certain judgements around the value of this asset have been made 
and are discussed in the judgements and estimates disclosure within the accounting policies.
Following the transfer of a number of employees in respect of new contracts in the year, the Group has gained Admitted Body status for three defined benefit 
schemes. At the time of admission these schemes had a net deficit of £0.5m. The initial plan assets and liabilities recognised as a result of these admissions 
are shown as ‘Contract transfers’ on page 99.
On 1 July 2011 the assets and liabilities of one of the Group’s defined benefit schemes, the Scion Group Pension Scheme, were transferred into one of the 
Group’s other defined benefit schemes, the Mears Group Pension Scheme.
The disclosures in respect of the 15 (2010: 13) defined benefit schemes in this note have been aggregated. 98 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
26. Pensions continued
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’
Costs and liabilities of the scheme are based on actuarial valuations. The latest full actuarial valuations for the schemes were updated to 31 December 2011 
by qualified independent actuaries using the projected unit method.
The principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date are as follows:
2011 2010
Rate of increase of salaries 3.0% 4.2%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2.6% 3.2%
Discount rate 4.9% 5.2%
Inflation 3.0% 3.2%
Life expectancy for a 65 year old male 21.4 years 21.6 years
Life expectancy for a 65 year old female 23.6 years 23.7 years
Expected rates of return on investments are:
2011
%
2010
%
Equities 7.75 7.00
Bonds 4.70 4.70
Property 7 .25 6.80
Cash 3.20 3.20
The amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet and major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are:
2011 2010
% £’000 % £’000
Equities 65 53,448 62 51,682
Bonds 24 19,657 19 16,251
Guarantee — 126 6 4,728
Property 8 7 ,290 10 8,798
Cash 3 2,094 3 2,230
Group’s estimated asset share 82,615 83,689
Present value of funded scheme liabilities (81,925) (90,837)
Funded status 690 (7 ,148)
Scheme surpluses not recognised as assets (6,530) (545)
Pension liability (5,840) (7 ,693)
The amounts recognised in the Income Statement are as follows:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Current service cost 2,665 2,357
Past service cost — (3,718)
Total operating charge 2,665 (1,361)
Amount charged to net interest payable:
– expected return on pension scheme assets (5,205) (4,279)
– interest on obligations 4,926 4,591
(279) 312
Total charged to the result for year 2,386 (1,049) 99 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
26. Pensions continued
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ continued
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Present value of obligations at 1 January 90,837 67 ,006
Current service cost 2,665 2,357
Past service cost — (3,718)
Interest on obligations 4,926 4,591
Plan participants’ contributions 865 784
Benefits paid (1,474) (1,280)
Contract transfer 3,948 4,011
Acquisitions — 10,281
Actuarial (gain)/loss (19,842) 6,805
Present value of obligations at 31 December 81,925 90,837
Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 83,689 64,225
Expected return on plan assets 5,205 4,279
Employers’ contributions 3,393 3,041
Plan participants’ contributions 865 784
Benefits paid (1,474) (1,280)
Contract transfer 3,407 4,251
Acquisitions — 5,354
Actuarial (loss)/gain (12,470) 3,035
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 82,615 83,689
The movements in the net pension liability and the amount recognised in the Balance Sheet are as follows:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Deficit in schemes at 1 January (7 ,693) (3,205)
Current service cost (2,665) (2,357)
Past service cost — 3,718
Contributions 3,393 3,041
Other finance income 279 (312)
Actuarial gain/(loss) 7 ,372 (3,770)
Contract transfer (541) 240
Acquisitions — (4,927)
Reduction in actuarial (gain)/loss due to non-recognition of scheme surpluses (5,985) (121)
Deficit in schemes at 31 December (5,840) (7 ,693) 100 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Group continued
26. Pensions continued
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ continued
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity are as follows:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
At 1 January (13,204) (4,626)
On TUPE transfer of employees (541) (4,687)
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the year 7 ,372 (3,770)
(6,373) (13,083)
Reduction in actuarial gain/(loss) due to non-recognition of scheme surpluses (5,985) (121)
Total at 31 December (12,358) (13,204)
History of experience gains and losses are as follows:
2011 
£’000
2010
£’000 
2009
£’000
2008
£’000
2007
£’000
Fair value of scheme assets 82,615 83,689 64,225 45,575 1,411
Net present value of defined benefit obligations (81,925) (90,837) (67 ,006) (42,778) (1,466)
Net surplus/(deficit) 690 (7 ,148) (2,781) 2,797 (55)
Asset value not recognised as surplus (6,530) (545) (424) (3,285) —
Net deficit (5,840) (7 ,693) (3,205) (488) (55)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets
Amount (12,470) 3,501 9,747 (8,527) (45)
Percentage of scheme assets (15.2%) 4.2% 15.2% (18.7%) (3.2%)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities
Amount 8,500 376 1,364 4 88
Percentage of scheme assets 10.3% 0.4% 2.0% — 6.0%
The employers’ contributions expected to be paid during the financial year ending 31 December 2012 amount to £3.1m.
27. Operating lease commitments
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals payable were as follows:
Land and buildings Other
2011
£’000
2010 
£’000
2011
£’000
2010 
£’000
Payable
Within one year 2,543 1,651 9,842 9,143
Between two and five years 6,556 5,107 14,798 9,656
After more than five years 2,948 2,895 — —
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties, the hire of vehicles and the hire of other equipment. 
These leases have durations ranging from three to 15 years. No arrangements have been entered into in respect of contingent rental payments. 101 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
28. Capital commitments
The Group had no capital commitments at 31 December 2011 or at 31 December 2010.
29. Contingent liabilities
The Group has guaranteed that it will complete certain contracts that it has commenced. At 31 December 2011 these guarantees amounted 
to £8.6m (2010: £5.73m).
The Group had no other contingent liabilities at 31 December 2011 or at 31 December 2010. 
30. Related party transactions
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its pension schemes, its subsidiaries and with its Directors.
Pension schemes
Details of contributions to pension schemes are set out in note 26 to the financial statements.
Subsidiaries
The Group has a central treasury arrangement in which all subsidiaries participate. The Directors do not consider it meaningful to set out details of transfers made in 
respect of this treasury arrangement between companies, nor do they consider it meaningful to set out details of interest or dividend payments made within the Group.
Transactions with key management personnel
The Group has identified key management personnel as the Directors of Mears Group PLC.
Key management personnel held the following percentage of voting shares in Mears Group PLC:
2011
%
2010
%
Directors 0.9 0.9
Key management personnel’s compensation is as follows:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Salaries 1,560 1,586
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 190 199
Share-based payments 60 592
1,810 2,377
Further details of Directors’ remuneration are disclosed within the Remuneration Report.
Transactions with other related parties
During the year the Group purchased customer care related services from Asert LLP, a company in which Mears Group PLC is a 50% partner, totalling 
£0.01m (2010: £nil). At 31 December 2011 the Group was owed £0.02m (2010: £nil) by Asert LLP. The Group also purchased call centre related services from 
Mears 24/7 LLP, a company in which Mears Limited is a 50% partner, totalling £0.3m (2010: £nil). At 31 December 2011 the Group was owed £nil (2010: £nil) 
by Mears 24/7 LLP. 102 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Company accounts
Financial statements
Principal accounting policies – Company  103
Parent company balance sheet  105
Notes to the financial statements – Company 106 103 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
Financial statements / Principal accounting policies – Company 
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards and under the historical cost convention.
The principal accounting policies of the Company are set out below. The following accounting policies have remained unchanged from the previous year. 
Investments
Investments are included at cost net of any provision for impairment.
Share-based employee remuneration
All share-based payment arrangements that were granted after 7 November 2002 are recognised in the financial statements. 
The Group operates equity-settled share-based remuneration plans for its employees. All employee services received in exchange for the grant of any 
share-based remuneration are measured at their fair values. These are indirectly determined by reference to the fair value of the share options awarded. 
Their value is determined at the date of grant and is not subsequently remeasured unless the conditions on which the award was granted are modified. 
The fair value at the date of the grant is calculated using the Binomial and Monte Carlo option pricing models and the cost is recognised on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period. Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period. 
Share-based remuneration in respect of employees of the Company is ultimately recognised as an expense in the Income Statement with a corresponding 
credit to share-based payment reserve. 
Upon exercise of share options, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs up to the nominal value of the shares issued are 
allocated to share capital with any excess being recorded as share premium.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the transactions or events that give the Company an obligation to pay more tax in the future, 
or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is more likely than not that 
they will be recovered. Deferred tax is measured using rates of tax that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Retirement benefits
Defined contribution pension scheme
The pension costs charged against profits are the contributions payable to individual policies in respect of the accounting period. 104 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Principal accounting policies – Company continued
Financial instruments
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity instrument is any 
contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the entity after deducting all of its financial liabilities.
Where the contractual obligations of financial instruments (including share capital) are equivalent to a similar debt instrument, those financial instruments are 
classed as financial liabilities. Financial liabilities are presented as such in the Balance Sheet. Finance costs and gains or losses relating to financial liabilities 
are included in the profit and loss account. Finance costs are calculated so as to produce a constant rate of return on the outstanding liability.
Where the contractual terms of share capital do not have any terms meeting the definition of a financial liability then this is classed as an equity instrument. 
Dividends and distributions relating to equity instruments are debited direct to equity.
Loans and debtors
Trade debtors are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They arise when the Company 
provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the debtors. Trade debtors are initially recorded at invoiced value (less a 
provisional estimate for impairment) and subsequently remeasured at invoiced value, less an updated provision for impairment. Any change in their value 
through impairment or reversal of impairment is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and bank deposits available at less than 24 hours’ notice. Bank overdrafts are presented as 
current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances. 
Following initial recognition, financial assets are subsequently remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. 
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature 
of the item being hedged.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising from its financing activities. In accordance with its 
treasury policy the Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The Company recognises gains or losses on 
derivatives at fair value through the profit and loss account except where cash flow hedge accounting is applied.
Hedge accounting for interest rate swaps
Where an interest rate swap is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of an existing or highly probable forecast loan interest payment, 
the effective part of any valuation gain or loss on the swap instrument is recognised in equity in the hedging reserve. The cumulative gain or loss is removed 
from equity and recognised in the profit and loss account at the same time as the hedged transaction. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised 
in the profit and loss account immediately.
When a hedging instrument or hedge relationship is terminated but the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that 
point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer probable, 
the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the Income Statement immediately. 105 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
Financial statements / Parent company balance sheet / as at 31 December 201 1 / Company number: 3232863
Note
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Fixed assets
Intangible assets:
Goodwill 5 3,876 —
Investments 6 57 ,048 53,345
60,924 53,345
Current assets
Debtors 7 77 ,141 44,173
Cash at bank and in hand — 402
77 ,141 44,575
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 (62,547) (35,107)
Net current assets 14,594 9,468
Total assets less current liabilities 75,518 62,813
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 9 (879) (880)
Provisions for liabilities
Pension liability 14 (3,594) —
71,045 61,933
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 10 857 848
Share premium account 11 33,554 33,243
Share-based payment reserve 11 2,965 2,905
Hedging reserve 11 (1,259) —
Profit and loss account 11 34,928 24,937
Equity shareholders’ funds 71,045 61,933
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 March 2012.
R Holt  A C M Smith
Director  Director
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 106 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Company
1. Profit for the financial year
The Parent Company has taken advantage of Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not included its own profit and loss account in these financial 
statements. The Group profit for the year includes a profit of £16.2m (2010: loss of £2.8m) which is dealt with in the financial statements of the Company. 
This result is stated after charging auditor’s remuneration of £62,000 relating to audit services and £5,000 relating to taxation services.
2. Directors and employees
Employee benefits expense
All staff costs relate to Directors. Staff costs during the year were as follows:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Wages and salaries 1,351 1,300
Social security costs 209 286
Other pension costs 190 199
1,750 1,785
The average number of employees of the Company during the year was:
2011
Number
2010
Number
Office and management 11 10
Details relating to the remuneration in respect of the highest paid Director are detailed in note 5 of the consolidated financial statements.
3. Share-based employee remuneration
As at 31 December 2011 the Group maintained six share-based payment schemes for employee remuneration. The details of each scheme are included 
within note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
All share-based employee remuneration will be settled in equity. The Group has no legal obligation to repurchase or settle the options.
In total, £0.1m of employee remuneration expense has been included in the Company’s profit and loss account for 2011 (2010: £0.6m), which gave rise 
to additional paid-in capital. No liabilities were recognised due to share-based payment transactions.
4. Dividends
The following dividends were paid on ordinary shares in the year:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Final 2010 dividend of 4.85p (2010: final 2009 dividend of 4.10p) per share 4,123 3,469
Interim 2011 dividend of 2.15p (2010: interim 2010 dividend of 1.90p) per share 1,839 1,610
5,962 5,079
The proposed final 2011 dividend of 5.35p per share has not been included within the financial statements as no obligation existed at 31 December 2011. 107 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
5. Goodwill
Goodwill
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2011 —
Transfer from investments 6,196
At 31 December 2011 6,196
Amortisation
At 1 January 2011 —
Charge for the year 2,320
At 31 December 2011 2,320
Net book value 
At 31 December 2011 3,876
At 31 December 2010 —
The transfers from investments into goodwill represent the cost of investments made in previous years in a number of subsidiary companies which are 
no longer trading following the transfer of the trade and assets into fellow subsidiary companies.
6. Fixed asset investments
Investment in
subsidiary
undertakings
£’000
Loans
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2011 31,345 22,000 53,345
Additions 10,249 — 10,249
Disposals (350) — (350)
Transfer to goodwill (6,196) — (6,196)
At 31 December 2011 35,048 22,000 57 ,048
Additions to investments in subsidiary undertakings relate to the acquisition of Terraquest Solutions Limited. The entire share capital of Terraquest Solutions 
Limited was transferred from Supporta Limited, a subsidiary of Mears Group PLC, at book value as part of a Group reorganisation.
The transfers from investments into goodwill represent the cost of investments made in previous years in a number of subsidiary companies which are no 
longer trading following the transfer of the trade and assets into fellow subsidiary companies. The disposal relates to M&T Group Limited which was struck 
off during the year, the trade and assets having been previously transferred at net book value into a fellow subsidiary.
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company are shown in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. 108 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Company continued
7. Debtors
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 75,574 43,192
Prepayments and accrued income 1,147 981
Deferred tax asset 420 —
77 ,141 44,173
The deferred tax asset above of £0.4m is due after more than one year. The recoverability of the deferred tax asset is dependent on future taxable profits. 
The Company expects to realise sufficient profits to enable the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
8. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Bank loan 60,000 34,000
Bank overdraft 588 —
Corporation Tax — —
Other creditors 2 7
Accruals 1,957 1,100
62,547 35,107
Included within accruals is £2.0m (2010: £1.0m) relating to an interest rate hedge.
9. Creditors: amounts falling due in more than one year
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Other creditors 879 880
Included in other creditors is £0.9m (2010: £0.9m) relating to deferred consideration on acquisitions.
10. Share capital
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
84,815,470 (2010: 74,391,610) ordinary shares of 1p each 848 744
Issue of nil (2010: 9,942,323) shares on acquisition of Supporta plc — 99
Issue of 843,293 (2010: 481,537) shares on exercise of share options 9 5
85,658,763 (2010: 84,815,470) ordinary shares of 1p each 857 848
843,293 (2010: 481,537) ordinary 1p shares were issued in respect of share options exercised. The difference between the nominal value of £0.01m and the 
total consideration of £0.32m has been credited to the share premium account.
During 2012 9,942,323 ordinary 1p shares were issued in respect of the acquisition of Supporta plc. The Company took advantage of merger relief in respect 
of the difference between the nominal value of £0.09m and the total consideration of £26.7m. 109 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
11. Share premium account and reserves
Share 
capital 
£’000
Share
premium
account 
£’000
Share-based
 payment
reserve
£’000 
Hedging
reserve
£’000
Profit
and loss
account 
£’000
At 1 January 2011 848 33,243 2,905 — 24,937
Issue of shares 9 311 — — —
Share option charges — — 200 — —
Exercise of share options — — (140) — 140
Cash flow hedge — — — (1,259) —
Profit for the year — — — — 16,208
Equity dividends — — — — (5,962)
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme net of deferred tax — — — — (395)
At 31 December 2011 857 33,554 2,965 (1,259) 34,928
12. Capital commitments
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2011 or at 31 December 2010.
13. Contingent liabilities
The Company had no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2011 or at 31 December 2010.
14. Pensions
Defined contribution schemes
The Company contributes to personal pension schemes of the Directors.
Defined benefit scheme
The Company operates a defined benefit pension scheme for the benefit of certain employees of its subsidiary companies. The assets of the schemes are 
administered by trustees in a fund independent from the assets of the Company.
Costs and liabilities of the scheme are based on actuarial valuations. The actuarial valuations were reviewed and updated to 31 December 2011 by a qualified 
independent actuary using the projected unit method.
The principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date are as follows:
2011 2010
Rate of increase of salaries 3.0% —
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2.6% —
Discount rate 4.9% —
Inflation 3.0% —
Life expectancy for a 65 year old male 22.4 years —
Life expectancy for a 65 year old female 23.9 years —
Expected rates of return on investments are:
2011
%
2010
%
Equities 7.75 —
Bonds 4.7 —
Property 7 .25 —
Cash 3.2 — 110 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Company continued
14. Pensions continued
Defined benefit scheme continued
The amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet and major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are:
2011 2010
% £’000 % £’000
Equities 76 6,279 — —
Bonds 20 1,661 — —
Property — 17 — —
Cash 4 348 — —
Group’s estimated asset share 8,305 —
Present value of funded scheme liabilities (13,097) —
Funded status (4,792) —
Related deferred tax asset 1,198 —
Pension liability (3,594) —
The amounts recognised in the profit and loss account are as follows:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Current service cost 109 —
Past service cost — —
Total operating charge 109 —
Amount charged to net interest payable:
– expected return on pension scheme assets (454) —
– interest on obligations 609 —
155 —
Total charged to the result for year 264 —
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Present value of obligations at 1 January — —
Current service cost 109 —
Past service cost — —
Interest on obligations 609 —
Plan participants’ contributions 35 —
Benefits paid (315) —
Change of principal employer 10,591 —
Transfer in 2,525 —
Actuarial loss (457) —
Present value of obligations at 31 December 13,097 — 111 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / 55–112
14. Pensions continued
Defined benefit scheme continued
Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January — —
Expected return on plan assets 454 —
Employers’ contributions 884 —
Plan participants’ contributions 35 —
Benefits paid (315) —
Change of principal employer 5,494 —
Transfer in 2,384 —
Actuarial gain (631) —
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 8,305 —
The movements in the net pension liability and the amount recognised in the Balance Sheet are as follows:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Deficit in schemes at 1 January — —
Current service cost (109) —
Past service cost — —
Contributions 884 —
Other finance income (155) —
Actuarial loss (174) —
Change of principal employer (5,097) —
Transfer in (141) —
Deficit in schemes at 31 December (4,792) —
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity are as follows:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
At 1 January — —
Change of principal employer (5,097) —
Transfer in (141) —
Actuarial loss recognised in the year (174) —
Total at 31 December (5,412) — 112 / Mears Group PLC / Annual report and accounts 2011
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
Financial statements / Notes to the financial statements – Company continued
14. Pensions continued
Defined benefit scheme continued
History of experience gains and losses are as follows:
2011 
£’000
2010
£’000 
2009
£’000
2008
£’000
Fair value of scheme assets 8,305 — — —
Net present value of defined benefit obligations (13,097) — —  
Net deficit (4,792) — — —
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets
Amount (631) — — — 
Percentage of scheme assets (4.8%) — — — 
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities
Amount — — — —
Percentage of scheme assets — — — —
The employer’s contributions expected to be paid during the financial year ending 31 December 2012 amount to £1.1m.
15. Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption with FRS 8 not to disclose transactions with companies which are 100% owned by the Group.
During the year one of the Company’s subsidiaries, Mears Limited, purchased customer care related services from Asert LLP, a company in which 
Mears Group PLC is a 50% partner, totalling £0.01m (2010: £nil). At 31 December 2011 Mears Limited was owed £0.02m (2010: £nil) by Asert LLP. 
Mears Limited also purchased call centre related services from Mears 24/7 LLP, a company in which Mears Limited is a 50% partner, totalling 
£0.3m (2010: £nil). At 31 December 2011 Mears Limited was owed £nil (2010: £nil) by Mears 24/7 LLP. The group’s commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this Annual Report 
which has been printed on Cocoon Silk 50, a high quality Silk coated paper and board 
range made from 50% de-inked post consumer waste and 50% FSC® certified virgin 
fibre and Cocoon Pre-Print 100 a 100% recycled paper made using FSC certified fibres.
This report was printed by Pureprint Group using their environmental print technology 
which minimises the impact of printing on the environment. Vegetable based inks 
have been used and 99% of dry waste is diverted from landfill. Pureprint Group 
is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company. Mears Group PLC
1390 Montpellier Court 
Gloucester Business Park 
Brockworth 
Gloucester GL3 4AH 
Tel: 01452 634 600
www.mearsgroup.co.uk
