 06
Mediterranean Oil & Gas Plc Annual Report 2011 www.medoilgas.com
MOG’s subsidiary, Medoilgas Italia SpA, 
has entered into a gas sales contract with 
Repower Italia SpA, covering all of the 
Company’s net gas production from the 
Guendalina gas field, effective from 1 April 
2012. As a result of the strong revenues 
from Guendalina and our onshore Italy 
assets, the Company is now in a much 
more favourable position to develop our 
key commercial objectives and growth 
strategy. 
In May, the Company agreed an 18 month 
extension of the first exploration phase 
under the Malta offshore Area 4 (MOG W.I. 
90% and Operator) Production Sharing 
Contract. On 14 December 2011, the 
Company, through its subsidiary Malta Oil 
Pty Ltd contracted with Fugro-Geoteam Pty 
Ltd to acquire 1,012 sq km of long offset 3D 
seismic exploration data in relation to its 
licence commitment. The processing of this 
data has been completed, the 
interpretation is underway to identify 
potential prospects within the licence area, 
and the results of this study are expected 
early in the 3rd Quarter of 2012. 
Keith Henry
Non-Executive Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
Mediterranean Oil & Gas Plc (‘MOG’, or the 
‘Company’), is pleased to announce the 
Company’s 2011 results. 
Although I became Chairman of the 
Company in January 2012 and was 
therefore not involved with the Company 
during 2011, on behalf of the Board I am 
pleased to be able to report on what was 
undoubtedly a transformational year for 
the Company. 
As a result of the Company’s restructuring 
in May 2011, MOG’s financial position was 
materially strengthened with £19.1m in new 
equity (post transaction expenses) being 
raised and the Company being left free 
of debt.
The key development for the year was the 
commencement of gas production from the 
offshore Guendalina gas field (MOG W.I. 
20%) on 25 October 2011. The field is 
performing in line with our expectations, 
with an average gross production of 
580,000 scm/day for the 1st Quarter of 2012 
(MOG 116,000 scm/day). 
Chairman’s statement
The Board remains focused and committed to 
growing the Company and we are actively seeking 
opportunities to expand our current portfolio 07
Mediterranean Oil & Gas Plc Annual Report 2011 www.medoilgas.com
BUSINESS
REVIEW
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
“ The Company continues  
to build up a very 
experienced technical  
and management  
team highly capable  
of exploring  
and developing oil  
and gas assets.”
 Keith Henry 
 Non-Executive Chairman
The Company’s Ombrina Mare oil and gas 
project (MOG W.I. 100% and Operator) in 
20m water depth, 7km offshore Italy, 
remains subject to the restrictions imposed 
by Legislative Decree no. 128, dated 29 June 
2010 which amends the earlier Italian 
Environmental Code (Decree no. 152/2006). 
MOG is in active dialogue with the Italian 
Government with regard to lifting the 
imposed restrictions. We were pleased to 
receive a 3 year extension to our 
exploration permit BR269 GC in May of this 
year and see this as a positive sign in our 
ongoing discussions with the Italian 
authorities regarding the issuance of a 
production concession for our proposed 
development of the Ombrina Mare field, 
which is located in the permit area. We are 
working with external legal counsel on the 
analysis and implementation of alternative 
courses of action should discussions with 
the Italian authorities fail to progress. 
Although there is no certainty on either the 
timing or the results of our request for a 
production concession, the Company is 
optimistic of a positive outcome.
During 2011, a number of changes were 
made to the membership of the Board  
and the Executive Management Team. 
Following the restructuring in May, Peter 
Clutterbuck retired from the Board and 
Miles Donnelly and Michael Seymour 
joined the Board as Non-Executive 
Directors. In October, Andrew Cochran 
stepped down from the Board as 
Non-Executive Chairman to be replaced, on 
a temporary basis, by Matthew Clarke and 
Michael Bonte-Friedheim stepped down 
from the Board as Chief Executive, to be 
replaced on a temporary basis by Sergio 
Morandi. The Board wishes to thank 
Michael, Andrew and Peter for their 
contributions to the Company.
Jake Ulrich and I joined the Board in 
January 2012 as Non-Executive Directors, 
and Dr. William ‘Bill’ Higgs joined the Board 
as MOG’s Chief Executive in March. Bill has 
over 23 years of global exploration, 
development and operations experience 
working with Chevron Corporation. Bill is a 
qualified geologist with extensive expertise 
in all engineering and other technical and 
commercial aspects of hydrocarbon 
exploration, development and production.  
I am delighted to welcome someone with 
such international experience and industry 
knowledge to the MOG Board.
Outlook
2011 was a difficult year, but one that saw 
the Company transform both its financial 
and commercial position, with considerably 
enhanced revenues now coming from the 
Guendalina gas sales. During 2012, we will 
work with the Italian authorities to achieve a 
positive solution to allow us to restart our 
suspended work on Ombrina Mare. The 
Competent Persons Report interpreting the 
results of the 3D survey for Malta Area 4 is 
due to be completed during the 3rd 
Quarter, enabling the Company to review 
its potential development options. 
MOG continues to build up a very 
experienced technical and management 
team highly capable of exploring and 
developing oil and gas assets. To that end, 
the Board remains focused and committed 
to growing the Company and we are 
actively seeking opportunities to expand 
our current portfolio. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
our shareholders and employees for their 
continued support of the Company.
Keith Henry
Non-Executive Chairman
24 May 2012
