 3 Chairman’s statement
Oxford University’s Said Business School. 
The Meggitt Production System, the 
Group’s wide-ranging continuous 
improvement initiative, embodies a faculty 
of operational excellence for the large 
number of employees touched by it. 
As a leading employer of engineers and 
manufacturing experts, we are naturally 
committed to maintaining the industry 
pipeline of expertise. This will undoubtedly 
be stimulated by the opportunities arising 
from the UK government’s commitment to 
co-funding investment in the aerospace 
and defence industry. As a business we  
are picking up the baton, developing  
young talent, sponsoring students with 
engineering aspirations through the 
Arkwright Scholarship Trust. In turn,  
they are benefiting from mentoring by 
engineering graduates from our own 
highly successful international graduate 
development programme in which we take 
care to engage bright minds early in very 
challenging engineering projects. 
We are also enhancing the professional 
development of established Meggitt 
engineers. As an integrated Group, 
careers can now develop beyond business 
units and divisions; we have entered into  
a partnership with the Institution of 
Mechanical Engineers to provide 
continuous training, management and 
leadership development; and we are taking 
care of our subject matter experts, 
ensuring that those who wish to remain 
expert in their fields have career paths as 
promising as those who move into 
management roles. This includes plans  
for a Technical Fellowship programme  
to reward those at the pinnacle of 
achievement in their chosen field.
Doing business the right way
We have grown Meggitt with great 
determination, based on clear-cut 
principles and practice. There is zero 
tolerance for anything other than the fair 
and impartial conduct of business that is 
fully compliant with applicable laws and 
regulations worldwide and integrity in 
every business relationship. 
Meggitt was one of the first companies  
to commit to comprehensive integrity 
policies, programmes and practice within 
its aerospace and defence business 
operations when we signed a Statement  
of Adherence to the Global Principles of 
Business Ethics for the Aerospace and 
Defense Industry. As Chairman of the 
Group’s Ethics and Trade Compliance 
Committee, I am proud to say our 
programmes lead the industry.
Board of directors
In May, Meggitt Group Finance Director 
Stephen Young succeeded Terry Twigger 
as Chief Executive. Terry spent 12 years—
nine with Stephen—quadrupling Group 
revenue and increasing profitability 
fivefold. Doug Webb, who succeeds 
Stephen, has held senior financial 
positions across a broad range of 
industries. Before joining Meggitt, Doug 
was Chief Financial Officer of London 
Stock Exchange Group plc. 
David Robins will be retiring from the 
Board following the AGM on 7 May 2014 
after 12 years of service as a non-
executive director, during which time  
he acted as Senior Independent Director 
and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee.
Looking ahead
Meggitt delivered a creditable set of 
results in 2013 despite some operational 
challenges and weakness in some 
markets, most notably the highly profitable 
civil aftermarket. 
Sequestration of US defence funding 
continues to generate uncertainty. 
However, our flexible manufacturing base 
enables us to redirect activity where 
demand remains strong, while retrofit, 
upgrade and outsourcing opportunities 
continue for Meggitt, as in the past, from 
greater utilisation and extension of 
existing programmes.
We look forward to making further 
progress in 2014 and beyond, driven by a 
highly resourceful workforce, underpinned 
by a resilient installed base of equipment, 
highly cash-generative business model 
and robust balance sheet. 
Sir Colin Terry Chairman
It is more than a decade since I joined 
Meggitt as a non-executive director, 
becoming Chairman in 2004. Since then, 
the Group has become progressively 
integrated, revenue has increased 
threefold and employee numbers have 
doubled. We have enjoyed growth 
organically and by acquisition, which has 
brought new capabilities and reinforced 
Meggitt’s smart engineering for extreme 
environments. 
Investing for growth
Meggitt continues to expand its market 
positions and capabilities through 
investment in research and development, 
facilities and, most important of all, its 
people. They are the backbone of our 
business and I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank them for their hard 
work in a challenging year. 
We benefit from a talented workforce 
across all disciplines, which we build on 
with Group-wide career opportunities and 
training at all levels. We place special 
emphasis on leadership development—
executive influencing, training in vital 
front-line supervision, plus strategy 
development work for future Meggitt 
leaders within programmes tailored by 
We have grown Meggitt with 
great determination, based on 
clear-cut principles and 
practice—the fair and impartial 
conduct of business that is 
fully compliant with applicable 
laws and regulations 
worldwide and integrity in 
every business relationship. 
3
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORTS
