 “
”
6 MEGGITT PLC          REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
Superior performance, 
defined by quality, cost 
and on-time delivery, is 
key to realising our 
growth potential and we 
are determined to make 
operations excellence  
a core competitive 
strength.
Group strategy
Meggitt aims to be a leading provider  
of smart engineering for extreme 
environments. We invest in developing 
high-technology components and sub-
systems which play mission or safety-
critical roles over long operating lives. 
We seek to improve our operational 
performance continuously to offer 
industry-leading levels of quality, 
on-time delivery and competitiveness, 
enabling us to reinvest in new capabilities 
and technologies while generating 
attractive returns for shareholders.
Technology 
We focus on targeted investment to 
drive future growth. We seek to grow 
organically by investing in the product 
and manufacturing technologies 
that count across a broad range of 
platforms and customers. To secure 
positions on specific platforms, we 
align our development focus with our 
customers’ technology roadmaps. 
We look to supplement organic growth 
with acquisitions that enhance our 
capabilities and routes to market. 
In 2014, we continued to refine our 
complete ATA26 fire protection 
systems for aircraft as we progressed 
our development of innovative 
environmentally-sound suppression 
technology. We continued to invest in fluid 
control and thermal management products 
capable of operating at the ever-higher 
temperatures required to enable the latest 
generation of jet engines to deliver the 
efficiencies demanded by their operators. 
To deliver these and many other 
capabilities competitively, we maintained 
our investment in cutting-edge 
manufacturing technologies such as 
additive layer manufacturing, which we 
now employ in the production of some 
in-service components, and Meggitt 
Modular Modifiable Manufacturing (M
4
), 
our pioneering approach to the factories 
of the future. M
4
 is designed to enable 
operators to manufacture a broader 
range of low-volume, highly complex 
components through greater deployment 
of technology through the factory. This 
includes the real-time monitoring of  
key parameters including product weight 
and touch-time and the provision of 
instant-access support to the operator 
if required. The result is greater 
optimisation of all aspects of the 
manufacturing process from machining 
and assembly to machine utilisation and 
traceability, enabling our businesses to 
invest in state-of-the-art equipment in 
the knowledge that it will be fully utilised 
in ‘smart’ facilities. 
Our acquisition of Precision Engine 
Controls Corporation (PECC) in December 
2014 exemplifies targeted, value-added 
portfolio enhancement. PECC, now 
a Meggitt Control Systems product range, 
builds on our existing thermal management 
and fluid control capabilities in the 
aero-derivative gas turbine market, 
broadening our reach into small-frame 
gas turbines in the 1-30MW power range 
and widening our actuation technology 
offering for the combined customer base. 
Operations excellence
Superior performance, defined by quality, 
cost and on-time delivery, is another key 
to realising our growth potential and we 
are determined to make operations 
excellence a core competitive strength. 
With meaningful improvements in 
operating performance such as Defective 
Parts Per Million down 84% and on-time 
delivery up 10%, the Meggitt Production 
System—our single, global approach to 
continuous improvement—has progressed 
well since its inception. We have launched 
the system across two thirds of our 
manufacturing estate and expect to see 
it adopted at all primary sites by the end of 
2015. Several sites have entered the second 
phase in the six-phase programme, 
extending the reach of the system beyond 
the factory floor and supply chain into 
functions and leadership. 
We have undertaken considerable work 
optimising our manufacturing footprint 
over the last few years, consolidating six 
sites into three and investing in low-cost 
manufacturing centres in China, Vietnam 
and Mexico. In 2014, we made good 
progress in enhancing the level of 
manufacturing capability of our facility 
in Querétaro, Mexico, with the start of 
a substantial transfer of product lines 
from our Control Systems businesses 
in North America. In China, we increased 
the scope of our Xiamen facility, 
responding to customers’ global sourcing 
requirements with the successful 
replication of a high-tech process from 
one of our European facilities involving 
the printing of sensors onto printed 
circuit boards. We will continue to evolve 
our manufacturing estate in response to 
the requirements of our customer base.
Chief Executive’s review
93987_p06-07.indd   6 04/03/2015   16:52 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REPORTS STRATEGIC REPORT 7
Renewing our customer focus
Making ourselves easy to do business 
with while responding to the dynamic 
markets in which we operate is core to 
our business philosophy for original 
equipment (OE) and aftermarket 
customers alike. To enhance our 
customer focus, we have recently 
appointed two senior executives 
dedicated to the requirements of our  
OE customers and the aftermarket 
respectively. 
The manufacturers of aircraft and 
engines will see a renewed focus on their 
interests as we strengthen key account 
relationship management and bring 
together cross-group product packages 
that simplify their supply chains. 
The aftermarket is central to the Meggitt 
business model. We will improve service 
through the Meggitt Production System 
and focus on the development of innovative 
support solutions for our OE customers 
as they seek to maintain more of their 
products in service. 
Cradle-to-grave programme 
management underpins Original 
equipment manufacturer (OEM) and 
aftermarket relationships. We are 
strengthening this function, shortening 
the lines of communication between 
OEMs and operators, championing their 
interests inside Meggitt and allowing 
closer collaboration than ever before. 
This is how we will achieve specific 
programme success, insights into 
customer’s technology aspirations over 
the longer term and opportunities to 
create better products from our  
existing portfolio. 
Performance in 2014
Performance in our end-markets was 
mixed. Good growth in civil aerospace 
was driven by a rise in aircraft deliveries 
from the major manufacturers, greater 
Meggitt content on newer platforms 
and a continued recovery in 
aftermarket revenues.
There were, however, challenges in our 
military market, particularly during the 
first half of the year. The effect of the US 
military drawdown from Afghanistan was 
compounded by the completion of two 
large retrofit contracts in the first half 
of the prior year. Both issues constituted 
a significant headwind to military 
aftermarket performance, although our 
overall military revenues stabilised on an 
organic basis in the second half of 2014. 
In energy, we continued to make good 
progress on the issue highlighted in 2013 
concerning the lack of availability of 
tourmaline, a key raw material. This is 
now behind us—we have migrated a 
number of customers onto alternative 
in-house materials and we are receiving 
positive customer feedback on product 
performance. Energy performance in the 
second half was hampered by lower 
revenues at Heatric, our printed circuit 
heat exchanger business. Its local content 
provider in Brazil is experiencing financial 
challenges, causing revenue to be 
deferred from 2014. 
Against this background, we have 
delivered flat organic revenues in 2014, 
with a decrease in underlying earnings 
per share of 5.1p to 32.4p reflecting 
currency movements, business mix, 
disposals and the investment being made 
in new aircraft programmes. Net debt to 
EBITDA at the end of the year was 1.2x. 
In November we announced a share 
buyback with the intention of increasing 
this ratio to 1.5x by the end of 2015 to 
maintain an efficient balance sheet. 
Outlook
The outlook for our civil aerospace 
markets remains encouraging. 
Production rates of large jets are 
expected to continue to grow and the 
relatively high shipset values we enjoy 
on the latest generation of widebody 
aircraft, together with our positions on 
the re-engined narrowbodies, should 
underpin organic civil OE revenue growth 
of 7 to 8% over the medium term. 
Reflecting recent inventory build at 
aircraft manufacturers ahead of new 
product launches and production rate 
increases, 2015 will be moderately 
below this level. 
Available seat kilometres, the key driver 
of our large and regional jet aftermarket, 
are growing at above the long-term trend, 
and lower oil prices should see this 
continue. However, we are seeing 
month-to-month volatility in revenues 
and a continuing impact from surplus 
parts. We therefore expect civil 
aftermarket growth in mid-single 
digits for 2015.
In the military market, we look to be 
entering a more benign phase, with 
military budgets seeing lower rates of 
decline than in recent years and even 
some suggestion of growth in the 
all-important US budget from 2016. 
Order intake in 2014 has been strong, with 
book to bill of 1.03 covering a number of 
short-term and multi-year contracts. 
On this basis we expect a return to 
modest growth in 2015 driven by good 
growth in military training, partially 
offset by a decline in MABS following the 
completion of the B1-B and Taiwanese 
upgrade programmes. We maintain our 
medium-term expectation of an average 
of 2% growth per annum excluding the 
effects of sequestration. 
Our energy businesses, driven by 
heightened demand for our printed circuit 
heat exchangers and increasing market 
share in condition-monitoring equipment, 
should continue to deliver revenue growth 
averaging greater than 10% over the 
medium term. However, in 2015 we expect 
good organic growth in energy control 
valves and condition monitoring to be 
largely offset by a decline at Heatric 
reflecting the impact of capital 
expenditure deferrals by our major 
oil and gas customers. 
On the basis of the above, the 
Group continues to expect organic 
revenue growth in 2015 of low to 
mid-single digit percentage points, 
in line with the guidance given in our 
interim management statement in 
November 2014.
Stephen Young Chief Executive
93987_p06-07.indd   7 04/03/2015   16:52
