 4
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
Chief Executive’s review
We have emerged from an 
intensive bid cycle resulting  
in technology sales into a 
significant number of new 
aircraft programmes, many 
involve a full suite of Meggitt 
capabilities, exceeding the 
shipset content of their 
predecessors. This is a very 
strong indicator of future 
revenue growth. 
Group strategy
In my first Annual Report and Accounts 
since becoming Meggitt’s Chief Executive, 
I am delighted to reaffirm my 
commitment to the strategy I was integral 
in developing since joining the Group as 
Finance Director in 2004. 
Meggitt’s strategy comprises four 
elements.
 Delivering innovation
We focus on highly-engineered 
components and sub-systems capable  
of withstanding increasingly harsh 
environments, such as in the next-
generation aero-engines. Our products 
must operate in extremes of pressure, 
temperature, impact, vibration and 
contamination in applications where 
certification requirements are 
demanding. 
We invest in manufacturing technologies 
such as automation and additive 
manufacturing, targeting product 
technology investment in areas where we 
see the greatest growth potential. Our 
power business, for example, continues to 
provide more electric solutions for our 
customers and we are embedding this 
capability increasingly across a broad 
range of Meggitt products. 
At the same time, we seek to leverage 
shipset content by combining the Group’s 
capabilities. Most recently, we deployed 
our sensing systems in tyre pressure 
monitoring for brake control systems and 
integrated polymers and composites with 
fluid control technology valves to create 
complete airborne fuel systems.
We supplement organic* growth with 
targeted acquisitions, increasing our 
range of capabilities and improving our 
market position.
  Securing positions on new 
platforms
Our leading-edge capabilities, intellectual 
property and longstanding track record of 
delivering reliable products, enable us  
to secure strong positions on new 
programmes, including the recently 
announced wheels and brakes contract 
on the Dassault 5X long-range business 
jet.
Because our products span multiple 
platforms across civil aerospace, military 
and energy markets, we are not 
dependent on single programmes, 
customers, regions or segments. 
We target specialist applications within 
these markets, generating revenue from 
original equipment and maintenance, 
overhaul, spares and repair services for 
the life of programmes, which can last  
for decades. 
Our customers’ technology roadmaps 
guide our investments. This is 
underpinned by rigorous product 
development, programme management, 
increased manufacturing capacity and 
regional support for original equipment 
manufacturers and their operators. 
We have longstanding relationships with 
major customers. Whether creating a 
critical component or sub-system for an 
aircraft engine or a heat exchanger for a 
floating offshore gas storage and 
processing vessel, we work together at 
the start of design phases to ensure 
demonstrable early-stage solutions.
  A c h i e v i n g o p er a ti o n a l 
excellence
Because superior performance on quality, 
cost and delivery are the building blocks 
of future growth, we are intensifying our 
investment in facilities, production 
systems, programme management  
and people. 
* Organic excludes the effect of acquisitions, 
disposals and foreign exchange. 5
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORTS
During 2013, we consolidated six factories 
into three larger, more efficient facilities. 
We moved a further two businesses to 
new, expanded sites to meet growth 
requirements. We also launched the 
Meggitt Production System (MPS) at 16 of 
our facilities, with a further 16 scheduled 
for 2014 and the remainder during 2015. 
MPS—our single, global approach to 
continuous improvement—will create the 
sustainable delivery and quality culture 
that confers competitive advantage 
beyond our technological expertise. It 
reinforces our commitment to developing 
our people and doing business the right 
way, further strengthening our customer 
partnerships. At the same time, Meggitt 
will become more cost-competitive. We 
will reduce working capital. We will 
reduce the cost of poor quality and, as 
MPS requires close relationships with 
suppliers who share our management 
standards and continuous improvement 
philosophy, our supply chain will become 
leaner and more effective. We have 
already seen significant operational 
improvements, with on-time delivery up 
by 10% and defective parts per million 
(our key performance indicator for 
quality) down by 54%.
  P r o v i d i ng t h r o ug h -l if e  
product support 
Once selected on a new platform, Meggitt 
often becomes the sole source for a given 
component for the life of the programme. 
Our equipment typically operates in harsh 
environments, generating a regular 
requirement for spares and repairs. This 
produces an annuity-like income stream 
over the life of the programme—often 
several decades.
We continue to invest in our product 
support capability. In 2013, we opened our 
new repair and overhaul centre in 
Singapore, doubling our capacity and 
introducing more Meggitt product lines, 
and launched a major review of the best 
way to deploy Meggitt’s growing 
aftermarket capability to our global 
customer base.
After the bid cycle
We have emerged from an intensive bid 
cycle resulting in technology sales into a 
significant number of new aircraft 
programmes, many involve a full suite of 
Meggitt capabilities, exceeding the 
shipset content of their predecessors. 
This is a very strong indicator of future 
revenue growth.
This accounts for R & D spend in 2013 
which, at 8.2% of revenue, was at a record 
level as we convert these new contracts 
into sustainable revenue streams. 
We are now moving into a major execution 
phase, which requires us to deliver new 
programmes on time and to specification 
and to meet new, tougher requirements in 
terms of quality, cost and delivery. The 
necessary improvement in operational 
performance will be supported by MPS  
and the recent appointment of a Chief 
Operating Officer. 
Performance in 2013
Revenue growth in 2013 was weaker than 
anticipated a year ago. This was due, 
mainly, to currency movements, a slower 
than expected recovery in civil aftermarket 
revenue and uncertainties around defence 
spending, particularly in the US. Supply 
chain and operational issues, while now 
under control, had an impact on revenues 
and costs in the second half, offset by good 
progress made in resolving legacy 
contract issues. Against this challenging 
background, total revenue rose 2% in the 
year (organic: +1%) with underlying 
earnings per share up 3% to 37.5p. Net 
debt decreased further to 564.6m (2012: 
642.5m) and net debt to EBITDA reduced to 
1.2x (2012: 1.3x). The recommended final 
dividend of 8.80p per share (2012: 8.20p) 
takes the full year dividend to 12.75p (2012: 
11.80p), an increase of 8%. 
Outlook
The outlook for our civil markets remains 
good, with further growth in aircraft 
deliveries anticipated in 2014 and beyond. 
During the latter half of 2013, air traffic 
growth accelerated to above the long term 
trend rate of 5% and we believe that the 
destocking seen over the last couple of 
years is coming to an end. We therefore 
maintain our view that civil original 
equipment and aftermarket revenues will 
grow at an average of 7 to 8% and 8 to 9% 
respectively, both on an organic basis, over 
the medium term. Aftermarket revenue 
will likely grow at less than this rate in 
2014 as the gradual recovery continues.
We anticipate a modest decline in military 
revenue in 2014, reflecting the substantial 
completion of the Bradley fighting vehicle 
and KC135 fuel tank retrofit contracts. 
Looking further ahead, uncertainty around 
military budgets, notably in the US, 
persists. As such, while we remain 
confident in delivering an average 
compound organic revenue growth rate of 
2% in our military markets over the 
medium term, this will be subject to 
modest reductions if sequestration 
impacts future budget cycles as initially 
envisaged. 
Energy, driven by continued strong 
demand for our printed circuit heat 
exchangers and new product introductions 
in the condition-monitoring market, should 
deliver organic revenue growth averaging 
greater than 10% over the medium term. 
Other markets should continue to see 
modest growth.
On this basis, we expect to make further 
good progress by delivering mid-single 
digit organic revenue growth in 2014, 
weighted towards the second half, and 6 to 
7% average organic revenue growth in the 
medium term.
 
Stephen Young Chief Executive
