 Chairman’s statement
Growing the Group
It’s been over a decade since I joined 
Meggitt as a non-executive director, 
becoming Chairman in 2004. During that 
time, Meggitt has evolved from a group 
of individually-run industrial businesses 
into an increasingly integrated 
international enterprise focusing 
on aerospace, defence and energy.  
We have grown revenue threefold, 
organically and by acquisition, increased 
our market capitalisation five-fold and 
doubled our workforce to over 10,500. 
A brand-new braking systems business 
has emerged from two significant 
acquisitions, both of which also boosted 
our existing thermal management and 
polymers and composites capabilities. 
An industry leader in aircraft fire protection 
and control emerged from another. 
In 2009, we restructured our business  
into capability-based divisions with 
streamlined management that made us 
easier to do business with. In 2013, we 
launched our continuous improvement 
initiative, the Meggitt Production System 
(MPS), which is already having a marked 
impact on our operational performance 
with much more to come.   
Talent
Meggitt has a strong focus on talent 
development, sponsoring aspiring 
engineers through successive Arkwright 
Scholarship Trust awards; entering into 
a long-term partnership with the 
Institution of Mechanical Engineers to 
provide training, management and 
leadership development for Meggitt 
engineers; appointing technical fellows; 
and creating a world-class biannual 
executive training programme with Oxford 
University’s Saïd Business School. 
In the last three years we have launched  
a hugely successful graduate training 
programme. We have attracted the best 
recruits from leading engineering 
faculties worldwide. Participants have 
been given the time and resources to 
focus on specific projects with excellent 
results, exemplified most recently by 
development work on a critical component 
for a major engine manufacturer using 
Meggitt’s growing capability in additive 
layer manufacturing.
Doing business the right way
Meggitt’s growth has been based on fair 
and impartial conduct of business, fully 
compliant with applicable laws and 
regulations worldwide and integrity in 
every business relationship. 
Meggitt was one of the first UK companies 
to commit to comprehensive ethics 
policies, programmes and practice when 
we signed the Statement of Adherence to 
the Global Principles of Business Ethics 
for the Aerospace and Defense Industry. 
As Chairman of the Group’s Ethics and 
Trade Compliance Committee, I take great 
pride in the strength of our programmes.
Capital deployment 
Meggitt’s capital allocation policy focuses 
on investing in organic growth, increasing 
ordinary dividends in line with earnings 
through the cycle and, where appropriate, 
enhancing capability in its core markets 
through targeted, accretive acquisitions. 
As the year closed, we acquired Precision 
Engine Controls Corporation (PECC). This 
leading supplier of actuation systems and 
fuel metering valves to manufacturers of 
small-frame gas turbines complements 
Meggitt Control Systems’ capability, further 
extending its reach in the oil and gas and 
power generation sectors.      
Demonstrating our commitment to 
maintaining an efficient balance sheet, 
we launched a share buyback programme 
for the first time in 2014. This is already 
improving shareholder returns and will 
deliver gearing at or slightly above  
1.5 times net debt to EBITDA (earnings 
before interest, taxes, depreciation and 
amortisation) by the end of 2015. 
Board of directors 
Alison Goligher was appointed non-executive 
director to the Board in October. Alison, an 
Executive Vice President in Shell’s Upstream 
International Division, brings a wealth of 
experience in technology deployment and 
integrated project management in the 
energy sector.   
In December, non-executive director, 
Philip Cox resigned to take up a new role 
as chairman of Drax Group plc. We thank 
Philip for his outstanding contribution to 
the Board. 
I will be retiring at April’s AGM and will  
be succeeded by Sir Nigel Rudd, whose 
extensive international business and 
boardroom experience spans many 
industries including those in which 
we specialise. 
I have enjoyed my time at Meggitt 
immensely and I am proud to have played 
my part in its transformation into a 
FTSE-100 global engineering group 
delivering critical products and solutions 
in its chosen markets. I look forward to 
seeing even greater success as Meggitt 
continues to evolve and grow. 
I would like to take this opportunity to extend 
my heartfelt thanks to all Meggitt employees 
for their outstanding work during my tenure 
as Chairman, particularly after a challenging 
year in some of our key markets.
Sir Colin Terry  Chairman
Meggitt was one of the first UK 
companies to commit to 
comprehensive ethics policies. 
As Chairman of the Group’s 
Ethics and Trade Compliance 
Committee, I take great pride in 
the strength of our programmes.
“
”
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REPORTS STRATEGIC REPORT 5
93987_p05.indd   5 04/03/2015   16:23
