 I am pleased to report Melrose’s second set of results since the
acquisition of the Dynacast Group and the McKechnie Group in
May 2005 for £429m.
RESULTS
These accounts cover the full twelve months to 31 December 2006
although the comparatives for 2005 include only seven months of
trading of Dynacast and McKechnie.
Revenue for the year was £507.0 million (2005: £269.9 million).
Headline profit before tax and headline earnings per share (both
before exceptional costs, exceptional income, intangible asset
amortisation other than computer software and profit on disposal
of businesses. Exceptional costs and exceptional income are those
costs of a significant and non-recurring nature or those associated
with significant restructuring programmes) were £43.9 million
(2005: £20.9 million) and 12.3p (2005: 9.1p) respectively.
After these items the profit before tax was £37.0 million
(2005: £1.5 million) and the basic earnings per share were
14.7p (2005: loss of 2.4p).
These results are outstanding and are the culmination of much
dedication and hard work from employees at all our businesses.
On behalf of shareholders I would like to thank them all.
In his Chief Executive’s Review, on pages 6 to 7 , David Roper describes
in more detail the successes of our Group companies, particularly
Aerospace OEM, as well as the challenges they faced in the year.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
“We have achieved much in the last 21 months with the businesses we own and
while it continues to be our strategy to realise value at the appropriate time, we
are now turning our thoughts to acquisitions.”
4 MELROSE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006
Christopher Miller Executive Chairman “These results are outstanding and are the culmination of much dedication
and hard work from employees at all our businesses.”
A significant part of the highly satisfactory outturn in 2006 was the
early result of actions taken by Melrose to improve the underlying
quality of these businesses. I mentioned in my report last year that
we have strengthened management, initiated restructuring programmes
and invested heavily where appropriate. Twelve months on, the fruits
of these actions are starting to flow through as forecast and there is
more to come. We never take our eye off the ball in this regard and
work continues to deliver operational improvement wherever possible.
At acquisition we also introduced cash management systems
which have led to much improved cash generation.
DIVIDENDS
The Board intends to propose a final dividend of 3.75p per share
(together with an interim dividend announced on 13 September
2006, a total of 6.0p per share) (2005: 3.0p per share) at the
Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2007. The dividend is payable
on 18 May 2007 to shareholders on the register at 20 April 2007.
BOARD APPOINTMENTS
As previously announced we were extremely pleased to welcome
John Grant as our third non-executive Director in August 2006.
His experience in the manufacturing sector is particularly valuable
to us and his appointment completes our Board for the time being.
AEROSPACE OEM
We announced in November 2006 that we had appointed
N M Rothschild to advise on a sale of our Aerospace OEM Division.
This process continues and we are hopeful of a satisfactory outcome
for shareholders in the near future.
Shareholders should understand, however, that we would be happy
to continue to own these businesses for a longer period and we will
only proceed if we receive a price that reflects their inherent quality
and future prospects.
In the event that the sale of Aerospace OEM is successful, it is our
intention to return a significant part of the proceeds to shareholders.
STRATEGY
We have achieved much in the last 21 months with the businesses
we own and while it continues to be our strategy to realise value at
the appropriate time, we are now turning our thoughts to acquisitions.
Although no activity should be expected in the near term, we will
actively pursue opportunities which we believe would respond to
our type of management skills and which would add substantial
value. Shareholders should be reassured that we will be as careful
as ever in our selection criteria.
In the meantime the Board believes the outlook for our businesses
in 2007 is very encouraging.
MELROSE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5
