 04
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report Melrose’s sixth set of annual results since
flotation in October 2003.
Results for the Group
These accounts report the results for the Group for the year to
31 December 2008 and the relevant comparatives for the previous
year. FKI plc was acquired on 1 July 2008 and its results have been
included from that date.
Revenue for the year was £938.3 million (2007: £288.6 million).
Headline profit before tax (before exceptional costs, exceptional
income and intangible asset amortisation other than computer
software) was £75.4 million (2007: £28.1 million).
Headline Earnings Per Share, which the Board considers to best
represent the true underlying performance of the Group, increased
15% to 16.8p compared with Proforma Earnings Per Share of 14.6p
(as defined in the Finance Director’s review) in 2007.
Further explanation of these results is provided in the Finance
Director’s review.
Much hard work and dedication, from our employees, has gone
into producing these highly satisfactory results and on behalf of
shareholders I would like to thank and congratulate them.
FKI plc
On 1 July 2008 we completed the acquisition of FKI plc for a total
consideration, including debt, of just under £1 billion. As I said at the
time of our interim results last August, a substantial opportunity exists
for improving the performance of FKI’s businesses over the next few
years, principally through an increased focus on profitability and much
has already been achieved. We are confident that FKI will prove to be
an excellent acquisition and produce significant value for shareholders
within our original time frame of three to five years. We are ahead of
our plans to improve profitability and generate cash.
CHRISTOPHER MILLER EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
2008 was a very active
year for Melrose and many
actions were taken,
particularly as regards FKI,
to further strengthen our
underlying performance. 05
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008
INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION & BUSINESSES
These results demonstrate that 2008 was a good trading year for
the Group as a whole. However, it will be no surprise to learn that
some of our businesses began to feel the effect of the global
downturn in the final quarter of the year and this, of course, has
continued into 2009. However, our managers have been quick to
respond to this changed environment, where appropriate, by reducing
manpower and other costs to align their businesses with current and
expected order books. It is important to emphasise that not all of our
businesses have been equally affected by the downturn and in many
of our businesses order books remain at a good level.
Cash generation, which was an excellent £60.0 million (after
dividends) in 2008, will remain a key priority in 2009. We will
however continue to invest in those businesses with demonstrable
growth prospects. It is important to maintain a balance between short
term cost reduction and the need to be positioned for resumed
growth when the upturn comes.
2008 was a very active year for Melrose and many actions were
taken, particularly as regards FKI, to further strengthen our underlying
performance. More information on these actions together with a
detailed review of our businesses and financial position are contained
in the reviews of the Chief Executive and Finance Director on the
following pages.
Dividends
The Board intends to propose a final dividend of 4.25p per share, the
same level as last year. Together with the interim dividend of 2.75p
per share paid on 14 November 2008 this gives a total for the year of
7p per share (2007: 6.75p per share), an increase of 3.7%. If
approved, the dividend will be payable on 15 May 2009 to
shareholders on the Register at 17 April 2009.
This total dividend would be covered 2.4 times by Headline
Earnings Per Share. Your Board recognises the importance of dividends
particularly during difficult economic times and regards the maintenance
of the dividend, at the very least, as an important objective.
Strategy
Melrose’s strategy is to acquire businesses it understands, improve
them by a mixture of investment and changed management focus
and, in a three to five year time frame, realise the value created and
return it to shareholders in the most efficient way possible. Although
current economic and stock market conditions suggest the latter end
of the time frame is most likely to be appropriate for realisations, the
strategy remains unchanged. Indeed we believe our competitive
advantage in pursuing this strategy has never been better and we
would expect there to be exciting opportunities to make further
acquisitions when the time is right.
Outlook
Certain things are clear: we have within our Group, businesses which
are able to withstand the worst of the downturn; we have substantial
potential, particularly within the FKI businesses; we have excellent
cash generation; and we have a strong management team. Although
this year promises to be the most difficult for some time, we have full
confidence in the long term prospects for your Company.
CHRISTOPHER MILLER
11 March 2009
15%
Increase in Headline
Earnings Per Share
Your Board recognises the
importance of dividends
particularly during difficult
economic times and regards
the maintenance of the
dividend, at the very least,
as an important objective.
£60m
Cash generated during
2008 (after dividends)
