 06
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008
Chief Executive’s review
I am particularly pleased with the results of the Group in 2008.
The highlight of the year was the acquisition of FKI which was
completed on 1 July 2008. Although global financial and economic
conditions have deteriorated since then, the rationale behind the
acquisition remains valid. We are ahead of our plans for FKI. Our
operational improvement plans have not yet had a material effect on
these results in the short time since acquisition but we have been
very successful in permanently generating cash through better
management of working capital. We are hopeful that we can generate
a further £50 million of cash in 2009 from continued improvements.
FKI was a major international diversified engineering group with
four divisions, including some businesses with very good market
positions. In general terms, at the head office level, FKI was unfocused
with a weak balance sheet and borrowings due to be refinanced in
the near term. The financing terms of Melrose’s acquisition enabled
the balance sheet issues to be resolved and the putting in place of
a more appropriate Group borrowing structure with lower overall debt
leverage and a maturity date of 2013. Further details are set out in the
Finance Director’s review.
In the case of the Energy division, where end-market demand is
forecast to remain firm, capital expenditure to improve capacity and
efficiency remains a priority. However, in the Lifting division, where
lower commodity prices have resulted in a softening in demand,
capital for capacity expansion has been pared back until the markets
stabilise. Nevertheless, opportunities to improve efficiency and cash
generation in this division remain.
The following specific points relating to the acquisition of FKI
should be noted:
– Following strategic reviews at each of the FKI business units,
management implemented measures to achieve operational
improvements through capital investment and efficiency gains.
– FKI’s central costs have been reduced by £10 million per annum.
DAVID ROPER CHIEF EXECUTIVE
There are substantial
opportunities to continue
the operational and cash
generational improvements to
the acquired FKI companies. 07
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008
INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION & BUSINESSES
– Cash generated in the six month period from a reduction in working
capital was £79.2 million. Net debt to EBITDA has been reduced
from 2.7x on acquisition to 2.25x at the year end exchange rates,
which is significantly better than our expectation at acquisition.
– Hickory’s businesses (formerly part of FKI’s Hardware division) have
either been sold or closed. This has resulted in a net inflow of cash
of approximately £10.2 million, significantly higher than our
estimates at the time of acquisition.
– We remain hopeful that a sale of Logistex North America will be
concluded soon. Protracted negotiations continue concerning the
disposal, reflecting the economic climate and difficult financing
conditions. In its field Logistex is a world class business with a
strong position in its market. There are actions that are being taken,
and will continue to be taken were it not to be sold, which will
significantly improve profit. In any event, we would expect Logistex
as a whole to remain profitable in 2009.
After a strong first nine months of trading in 2008, Dynacast saw a
significant decline in sales in the final quarter of the year. Early action
by the experienced management team to reduce costs and conserve
cash mean that the company is well placed to meet these challenging
conditions and will be in a strong position when markets improve.
In the Interim Statement it was stated that a fundamental review
of MVC had been instigated as a result of the deteriorating conditions
in the US automotive industry. We were pleased to report the sale of
the company in November 2008. Whilst this business has produced
an unsatisfactory result in a very tough trading environment it should
not detract from the success of the acquisition of McKechnie.
Outlook
The breadth of the end markets that the Melrose Group companies
sell into, both sectorally and geographically, means that although
some companies will face more difficult trading conditions this year,
others operate in markets with favourable prospects. The fall in the
value of Sterling has also resulted in significant translation benefits and
a competitive advantage for our UK based businesses. In addition to
this, and most importantly, there are substantial opportunities to
continue the operational and cash generational improvements to the
acquired FKI companies.
In addition to the strong underlying cash generation within the
Group and the operational improvement plans being put in place, we
are fortunate to have operational management that have been
proactive, where necessary, in taking action to cut costs and conserve
cash. Recently implemented cost savings initiatives across the Group
should yield annual savings of at least £25 million at a cost of around
£2 million.
These factors, allied to the solid financial base of the Group and
the operational improvement plans being put in place, give us
confidence that Melrose will successfully trade through this difficult
period and position us to be able to benefit from the exciting
opportunities that undoubtedly lie ahead.
DAVID ROPER
11 March 2009
£10m
Reduction in FKI’s
central costs per annum
The highlight of the year
was the acquisition of FKI
which was completed on
1 July 2008.
We are ahead for our plans
for FKI.
