 06 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2010 
I am very pleased with the trading performance of the Group  
in 2010. As we move back into a period of sales growth though, 
it is worth noting that profits have increased in the Group 
notwithstanding the severe global downturn of the last  
few years.
In the first half of the year, the profit increase was achieved 
largely through lower costs on flat sales, whereas in the second 
half the profit growth was driven by increasing sales as the 
order books, particularly from our later cycle businesses,  
started to kick in. This has resulted in a steady and gratifying 
improvement in headline operating profit margins (a key Melrose 
performance indicator) to 14.9% in the second half of the year. 
This is significant in that it demonstrates the transition to 
increasing revenue driving profit growth rather than cost 
reduction. The Group is well placed to benefit from this in that 
many of its businesses operate in industries and regions with 
strong long term growth characteristics. As a result, during the 
second half of 2010 the Group has stepped up its capital 
expenditure programme significantly.
Whilst there are concerns about the effect of raw material price 
increases on the global economy, individually our businesses  
all benefit from strong positions in their markets and we are 
confident that, absent to an overall decline in the global 
economy, the Group will not be adversely affected.
The Energy division had an excellent year in 2010. Although the 
global power generation market started to recover during the 
year, it was not until well into the second half of the year that 
Brush Turbogenerators’ generator sales started to gather 
momentum, reflecting the later cycle nature of its business.  
In addition, the acquisition of GMS in the year has greatly 
boosted Brush Turbogenerators’ presence in the higher margin 
aftermarket business and this represents a major strategic 
opportunity for Brush. We continue to target growth in higher 
margin aftermarket sales and are confident that we will continue 
to see further success in this area over the months to come. 
“ The Energy division had an excellent 
year in 2010. Although the global 
power generation market started to 
recover during the year, it was not until 
well into the second half of the year 
that Brush Turbogenerators’ generator 
sales started to gather momentum, 
reflecting the later cycle nature of 
its business.”
Chief 
Executive’s 
review
Revenue 
(Full year)
£1 ,379.5m
2009: £1,298.5m
Headline operating profit margin  
(Second half)
14.9%
2009: 13.0%
Headline basic earnings per share growth 
53%
2010: 25.4p versus 2009: 16.6p Melrose PLC 07
Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information
Annual Report 2010 
The continuing strength of the order book, allied to the efficiency 
gains being achieved, especially in relation to the absorption of 
Brush Transformers’ operations, gives us confidence that 2011 
will be another good year.
In the Lifting division, Bridon’s profit in 2010 fell marginally short 
of its record profit in 2009. Whilst a number of Bridon’s markets 
saw some recovery in the year, the offshore oil and gas industry 
remained subdued, exacerbated by the moratorium on 
deepwater drilling following the Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of 
Mexico. During the year Bridon launched a number of exciting 
new products designed to meet the increasingly demanding 
applications required by its customers and continued to invest  
in the upgrading of its manufacturing and research and 
development facilities. With general market conditions 
continuing to improve and the expectation that the offshore oil 
and gas market will start to recover in the second half of 2011, 
allied to the benefits from the new products and higher capital 
spending, Bridon looks forward to a year of progress. Crosby 
recovered sharply in 2010 following a difficult 2009. Both sales 
and profit grew strongly, partly as a result of a general pick up  
in market conditions, but also as a result of the hard work put in 
during 2009 to work closely with its well established distributor 
base and continue to focus on developing new products, 
thereby resulting in gains in market share. With major advances 
being made in expanding in the Far East and increasing orders 
in its established North American and European markets, 
Crosby looks forward to a successful outcome in 2011.
Dynacast performed exceptionally well in 2010 with revenue and 
profit recovering strongly after a difficult 2009. Some of the cost 
savings made during the downturn have been retained as sales 
have recovered and this has resulted in a highly encouraging 
return on sales in the year of over 15 per cent. Sales in all three 
of Dynacast’s main geographic regions grew strongly in the year 
and new tool sales, a key indicator of future growth, reached  
a record high in Asia during the year. As market conditions 
continue to show improvement, Dynacast is confident of a 
further year of progress.
The Other Industrial division performed well in 2010 – profit  
was up substantially on the back of a modest increase in sales. 
MPC in particular had an exceptional year as the benefits of a 
focused programme of technically differentiated new products 
supported by capital investment started to come on stream.  
This has led to a strong business relationship with Jaguar Land 
Rover which we have been pleased to support with capital 
investment. We look forward to another year of progress from 
this division.
In February 2011, Brush Traction, Logistex UK and Madico  
were sold for a total consideration of £20.7 million.
Outlook
Melrose group companies operate in markets that are forecast 
to continue to expand and to have good medium and long term 
growth characteristics. This, combined with an ongoing benefit 
from tight cost control, gives us confidence that we will continue 
to see progress over the years to come.
On the back of healthy order books, supported by an aggressive 
capital investment programme and a healthy pipeline of exciting 
new product introductions, we look forward to a further year of 
progress for the Group in 2011.
David Roper 
9 March 2011
“ On the back of healthy order 
books, supported by an aggressive 
capital investment programme and 
a healthy pipeline of exciting new 
product introductions, we look forward 
to a further year of progress for the 
Group in 2011 .”
