 I am very pleased with the results of the Group in 2007. A lot
happened during the year and the make-up of the Group is markedly
different from this time last year.
The sale of the McKechnie Aerospace division and PSM in May,
resulting in a profit to Melrose of over £190 million after only two
years in our ownership, was very gratifying. This enabled us to return 
£220 million to shareholders in August. This means that shareholders
have received by way of distribution or return of capital 95% of the
equity capital raised since Melrose floated in October 2003.
In addition, the trading result for the Group in 2007 was good. I set
out below the reports on the divisions and would mention the
following highlights:
■
At Dynacast a major investment programme in South China is
underway to take advantage of the continuing strong trading
conditions in the Far East. Having completed the restructuring of its
operational base and turned its attention to bolt-on acquisitions, it is
pleasing to report that Dynacast has successfully completed two
such acquisitions in the second half of the year – the search
continues for more.
■
At MVC, although market conditions remain extremely challenging,
operational improvements continue to be made and the new
chrome plating line was successfully introduced, which assisted the
launch of MVC’s new plasticlad product.
■
At MPC the benefits of operational restructuring and of focusing on
higher margin value added products are coming through well. New
product introductions, supported by targeted capital investment,
were notable achievements.
Having successfully sold
businesses and returned capital 
to our shareholders, we have been
able to show how our business
model works in practice.
DAVID ROPER CHIEF EXECUTIVE
06 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive’s review
08_1022_Melrose_R&A:12736_Melrose_RA  26/3/08  18:22  Page 06 Outlook
Dynacast continues to show the quality of its business franchise by
reporting increased profits and margins, even in the face of large raw
material price rises. In addition to its active ongoing capital investment
programme, particularly in the Far East, the company is looking to 
make further value-enhancing bolt-on acquisitions. 
At both MVC and MPC the strategy is to exploit the high level of
technical engineering and design expertise in the businesses,
supported by bold but highly focused capital investment, to deliver
improved returns.
As Chris Miller says in his Chairman’s statement, having successfully
sold businesses and returned capital to our shareholders, we have
been able to show how our business model works in practice. Our
strong financial condition and solid trading performance position us
well to take advantage of the current market conditions to pursue
acquisition opportunities.
I am most encouraged by the trading performance of the Group 
and I look forward to further achievements in the year ahead.
DAVID ROPER
5 MARCH 2008
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2007  07
08_1022_Melrose_R&A:12736_Melrose_RA  27/3/08  19:41  Page 07
