 08 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009
Melrose owns a group of businesses with strong market positions 
serving different sectors and operating in different parts of the 
world, which has provided the Group with a considerable degree 
of protection from the economic downturn.
During the year there have been many positive operational 
achievements in the Group, but the highlight has been the 
excellent cash generation. Although this was achieved partly  
on the back of lower capital expenditure in the year, it was largely 
as a result of profit and greatly reduced levels of working capital. 
Indeed, during the year 149% of headline operating profit was 
converted into cash, resulting in net debt at the year end of  
£321.7 million compared with £543.1 million at the beginning of 
the year. Net working capital of the Group was 8.8% of sales at  
31 December 2009 compared with over 16% for the FKI group 
prior to its acquisition by Melrose. This has been achieved as a 
result of the consistent application of focused cash management 
disciplines throughout the year, rather than by the use of temporary 
period end squeezes on working capital.
Chief  
Executive’s  
review
“ During the year there have  
been many positive operational 
achievements in the Group,  
but the highlight has been the 
excellent cash generation.”
Headline operating profit 
conversion to cash
149%
Annualised payroll savings
£80m
Headline operating profit 
margin (second half)
13% 09 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009
Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information
Outlook
The fragile signs of global economic recovery that emerged in the 
second half of 2009 have continued to build and as we enter the 
new year there is undoubtedly a much improved feeling of confidence, 
albeit tinged with some caution.
In our early cycle businesses this upturn has already been reflected 
in higher sales, whilst in our later cycle businesses order books 
have been improving, which will translate into higher sales as 
appropriate. On the back of operational efficiency gains in our 
manufacturing plants and lower costs, this should feed through 
strongly into better performance.
Barring any unforeseen events, we are very positive about the 
potential of the Group for this year.
David Roper
10 March 2010
In addition, timely action by operating management to reduce 
costs in their businesses greatly limited the impact of the downturn 
in sales on profit. Since the downturn began, in excess of  
£80 million of payroll related costs on an annualised basis have 
been taken out of the businesses. It is estimated by management 
that approximately 70% of these costs are volume related and  
will therefore return as sales recover, with the remaining 30% 
being of a more permanent nature.
The Energy division as a whole had a very satisfactory year. 
Although sales in the year at Brush Turbogenerators were down 
on the previous year, profit was maintained. This was achieved by 
substantial operational efficiency gains at the three manufacturing 
plants, cost reductions and an increasing proportion of higher 
margin aftermarket sales. With signs of a gradual upturn in orders 
in this business going into the new year and with a lower and more 
efficient cost base, we are confident that 2010 will be a good year.
In the Lifting division although Bridon had a record profit year in 
2009, Crosby had a difficult year. Bridon benefited from a very 
strong opening order book with a good mix of high margin offshore 
oil and gas sales. Although this line of business is projected to 
decline in 2010 it will be counterbalanced by higher levels of 
activity in other sectors such as the bridge and stadia business. 
On the back of the continuing improvements in operational 
efficiency Bridon is well positioned to grow strongly as the upturn 
in the global economy develops. Crosby suffered a significant 
decline in sales in 2009 on the back of the fall in the gas price in 
late 2008, yet still managed to achieve a return on sales in excess 
of 10%, reflecting the intrinsic quality of the business. On the back 
of a significantly lower cost base and with signs of the distributors 
restocking, 2010 should see an improvement in the trading result.
As another of Melrose’s early cycle businesses, Dynacast was 
quick to feel the effect of the economic downturn and as a result 
sales were significantly lower in 2009 than in the previous year. 
However, actions to reduce costs limited the impact on profit.  
With positive signs of Dynacast’s markets improving, there is 
confidence that 2010 will be a year of recovery.
