 06 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009
Chairman’s  
statement
I am pleased to report Melrose’s seventh set of annual results 
since flotation in 2003.
Results for the Group
These accounts report the results for the Group for the year  
to 31 December 2009 and comparatives for the previous year.  
FKI plc was acquired on 1 July 2008 and these accounts include 
its first full year contribution.
Revenue for the year was £1,298.5 million (2008: £895.3 million). 
Headline profit before tax (before exceptional costs, exceptional 
income and intangible asset amortisation) was £118.6 million 
(2008: £73.1 million) and headline basic earnings per share were 
16.6p (2008: 16.1p). Profit before tax was £82.0 million (2008: 
£23.5 million) and the basic earnings per share were 11.0p  
(2008: 4.1p).
Further explanation of these results is provided in the Finance 
Director’s review.
FKI plc
Our first full year of ownership of FKI has exceeded our expectations. 
The quality of its major businesses has been demonstrated in  
their resilience during the severe downturn in 2009. Changes  
in management and strategies as well as targeted capital 
expenditure have reaped early rewards. The geographic and 
sector spread of these businesses when added to their inherent 
strengths gives us confidence that there is more to come over  
the next few years. At the same time continued focus by our 
management teams on permanent cash generation has  
produced excellent results. 
Headline profit before tax
£118.6m
Total 2009 dividend
7 .7p
Headline
 
basic EPS
16.6p
“ Our first full year of ownership  
of FKI has exceeded our 
expectations. The quality of  
its major businesses has been 
demonstrated in their resilience 
during the severe downturn  
in 2009.” 07 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009
Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information
Outlook
Across the Group, sales are now beginning to increase and order 
books are reviving. For the moment it appears recovery which has 
been noticeable for several months in the East, may be on the way 
to the West – although caution must be the watchword until this 
becomes established. Government debt reduction programmes 
which need to be carried out in many countries have not yet been 
implemented and it is very difficult to prejudge the timing and the 
effects of these.
In the mean time we are confident of the short and long-term 
prospects of our businesses and satisfied that the actions we 
have taken in the downturn have left them very well placed for  
the incipient recovery.
Christopher Miller
10 March 2010
2009 was an extraordinarily difficult year. The severe downturn 
which started in autumn 2008 was the starting point for substantial 
cost reductions in nearly all our businesses across the world.  
Our management teams are to be congratulated on their speed  
of reaction and the accuracy of their targeting. The result can be 
seen in improved Group profit margins, even in the face of lower 
sales. Employees too must be thanked for their willingness to 
embrace sometimes painful change brought on by economic 
circumstances.
Operational cash generation, always a focus for Melrose, has again 
been exceptionally strong. At the Group level, after all items including 
exchange movements and disposals, net debt has been reduced 
by £221 million to £322 million, an extremely satisfying performance.
Capital expenditure, held back in 2009 in the face of the uncertain 
outlook, will rise again in 2010. It is also likely that the initial strong 
improvement in FKI’s net working capital levels will now stabilise 
as an appropriate level is reached. These two factors will mean 
that 2010 is more normalised for cash generation although we still 
fully expect a strong performance at the operating level.
A more detailed review of Melrose’s businesses and financial 
position is contained in the reviews of the Chief Executive and 
Finance Director on the following pages.
Dividends
The Board intends to pay a second interim dividend of 4.8p per 
share (2008: final dividend of 4.25p) on 1 April 2010 to shareholders 
on the register on 19 March 2010 in lieu of a final dividend. This 
gives a total for the year of 7.7p (2008: 7.0p), an increase of 10% 
reflecting the Board’s confidence in the future.
Strategy
Melrose’s strategy is by now well understood. We continue to look 
for businesses where our combination of increased management 
focus and strong but selective investment is likely to produce above 
average returns for investors. This strategy will include the sale of 
these businesses at the appropriate time, normally in a three to 
five year period, with proceeds being returned to shareholders in 
the most efficient way possible.
We continue to believe that market and economic conditions favour 
acquisitions over disposals at present and so we continue to look 
for the right opportunity. Fortunately, the strong growth potential 
of our existing businesses over the next few years gives us the 
ability to be patient and we will exercise our customary caution  
in our selection process.
