 APG01 | AR13 | 31/03/2014 | FRONT proof 13
STRATEGIC REPORT 
Chief Executive Officer’s 
statement
I am pleased to be joining Anglo Pacific at an important stage in the Company’s 
development. We believe we are well positioned to lead the Company into  
its next phase of growth.
I was encouraged by our maiden set of results for 2013. The Company was able to maintain a steady 
royalty income, at £14.7m for 2013 only slightly down from £15.2m for 2012, despite continued 
difficulties in the mining sector. The Company’s ability to withstand the current macro-economic 
backdrop is further reflected in a resilient adjusted earnings after tax number (refer to page 30), which  
has in turn encouraged us to maintain our total dividend at 10.2p.
Since my appointment in October 2013, the team has been hard at work on a number of fronts.  
Our primary focus has been on sourcing viable royalty transactions and I am pleased to say that our 
pipeline continues to grow. Our current focus is on diversifying our existing asset portfolio and securing 
near-term, cash-producing royalties in base metals and bulk materials projects, providing the Company 
with a clearly differentiated strategy from its North American listed precious metals peer group. 
Furthermore, we have sought to provide a fair and balanced picture of the Group’s assets in these 
accounts and believe our results reflect this. Updates during the year in relation to some of our royalties 
resulted in impairment charges as there is some uncertainty as to if and when these royalties will  
come into production. We believe these impairment charges are accurate in the context of long-term 
commodity prices and the challenges facing those operations. We believe we now have a robust 
balance sheet and this should serve as a good base for future growth.
In February 2014, we also took on a new US$15m twelve-month unsecured revolving credit facility. 
Together with our net cash position, this gives availability of between US$35m and US$40m and 
provides additional funding flexibility for the next 12 months.
We were also pleased to welcome BMO Capital Markets (‘BMO’) to work alongside Liberum Capital  
as Joint Corporate Broker in January 2014. BMO will play an increasingly important role as we look to 
grow the Company and increase our profile internationally. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to 
thank Brian Wides for his contribution to the Company as Acting Chairman over the past 15 months and 
in particular for his wise, thoughtful leadership and guidance since my appointment in October 2013.
We look forward to 2014 and are confident of the opportunity to provide our shareholders with growth and 
income from our dividend, through the existing assets in our portfolio and the acquisition of new royalties. 
The following section of our Annual Report, up to and including page 34 is our strategic report for  
the year ended December 31, 2013 and outlines amongst other things, our business model and new 
strategic objectives along with an overview of the market and how we performed in the period. 
J.A. Treger
Chief Executive Officer 
March 31, 2014
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 09
STRATEGIC REPORT
