 The last six months have seen good progress in our
plan to maximise the value inherent in Mentmore for
shareholders.
We announced in December 2002 our intention to
focus on our personal storage and records management
businesses and sell the serviced business space
(“SBS”) division. That business has now been sold
subject to shareholder approval for £189.0 million to
Ashtenne Holdings plc. Completion is scheduled for
31st July. The sale allows us to focus on increasing
the value of our two higher growth, higher return
businesses.
Whilst the proceeds from the disposal will
substantially reduce gearing and interest charges,
there are some other financial consequences.
• SBS contributed operating profit before goodwill
amortisation of £17.5 million in 2003 and earnings
per share of 2.86p in 2003 on a pro forma basis,
which will not be repeated in 2004; 
• Provision for impairment and exceptional costs of
disposal of £61.7 million together with the write off
of other costs of £3.8 million relating to the
disposal are included in the 2003 results;
• We are not able to pay any dividends, although we
are initiating a capital reorganisation to address 
this situation. 
4 Mentmore plc Annual Report 2003
Chief  executive’s statement 
Turnover 
£82.1m
an increase of 6.1% on last year
Profit before tax 
£18.7m
before goodwill amortisation and
exceptionals, reduced by 5.7% on 
last year
Martin Nye
Chief executive Mentmore plc Annual Report 2003 5
We also announced last December that my first priority
as group chief executive was to develop a plan to
take the group forward. With the completion of the
sale of SBS, Mentmore is focused on two valuable
businesses with good prospects for long term
growth. You will see from the operating review that
follows that we have clear strategies for each
business to increase its value. The highlights of our
strategy are as follows:
• to improve the operational performance of personal
storage before further investments are made to
take advantage of the attractive growth
opportunities;
• to continue to support the successful growth of Iron
Mountain Europe (“IME”) whilst ensuring that the
value of our 49.9% shareholding in IME is fully
recognised;
• to optimise the group’s capital structure, including
an intention to return cash to shareholders when
appropriate;
• to resume the payment of dividends as soon as
possible, including making a special one-off interim
dividend of 0.89p per share in lieu of the 2003 final
dividend; and
• to review the group’s cost structure further when
the level of corporate activity diminishes to ensure
we have the appropriate overheads for the
restructured group.
With this framework in place, I am confident that we
can develop the business to deliver value for
shareholders.
Martin Nye
Chief Executive
9 July 2003
This is my first report to you as chief executive. I am pleased to tell you
that we have developed the detail of the group's future structure and
strategy to maximise shareholder value. Records management is
progressing well and although personal storage has not met its
ambitious growth targets we believe both businesses are well
positioned to build on their strong market positions.
