 Overview
The year has seen a major change in the group’s
strategic direction, with the announcement in
December 2002 that the group planned to focus on
its personal storage and records management
operations and to sell its serviced business space
division (“SBS”). 
We are pleased to announce that we have
conditionally agreed to sell SBS to Ashtenne
Holdings plc for a consideration of £189.0 million.
The sale is conditional on shareholder approval and
this is the subject of a circular to shareholders issued
today.  
The SBS disposal gives rise to provisions for
impairment and exceptional costs which, before tax,
amount to £61.7 million and lead to the company
having a deficit on its distributable reserves.
We are therefore also asking for shareholder approval
for a capital reorganisation as a part of our strategy
to optimise the group’s capital structure, including
the resumption of the payment of dividends and an
intention to return cash to shareholders when
appropriate. 
Your Board strongly recommend that you vote in
favour of both resolutions. 
Group turnover from continuing operations increased
by 9.1% to £82.1 million (2002: £75.3 million) and
profit on ordinary activities before interest, goodwill
amortisation and exceptionals increased by 5.7% to
£31.1 million (2002: £29.4 million). 
Martin Nye joined us as group chief executive in mid
January and is making a major contribution to the
group. His priority has been to develop the group’s
future strategy; details of our plans are included in 
his report.
Strategic developments
Our review of the group’s strategic options concluded
that notwithstanding significant investment in SBS
over a number of years, returns would not meet
those originally anticipated and that the group should
focus on its personal storage and records
management operations; these offer stronger market
positions and higher future returns than SBS. Your
Board, therefore, decided to take advantage of
beneficial market conditions for industrial properties
of the type comprising SBS by disposing of the
division.
We have taken an important first step in
implementing our strategy by entering into a
conditional agreement to sell the SBS business. 
The sale process has been comprehensive and your
Board believes that this transaction optimises value
for shareholders. The net cash proceeds of the
disposal will immediately be used to reduce the
group’s debt.
There will be a loss to the group on the disposal of
£61.7 million, primarily as a result of the write-off of
goodwill arising on the acquisition of Birkby plc in
1999. The company will have a deficit on its
distributable reserves of £28.5 million. Your Board
therefore today announces a capital reorganisation,
which, subject to certain approvals, will eliminate this
deficit, enabling dividend payments and a return of
capital to shareholders when appropriate.
Following the sale of SBS, the significance of Iron
Mountain Europe (“IME”), our joint venture records
management company, within the group will increase.
We have started discussions with Iron Mountain
Incorporated as to how we best recognise the value
of our investment in IME. We are discussing many
options and there is a commitment from both parties
to finding a solution that benefits all. The discussions
will continue over the coming months but we are
more concerned with finding the right solution rather
than a quick solution.
2 Mentmore plc Annual Report 2003
Chairman’s statement
Nick Smith 
Chairman Trading
Results for the year are overshadowed by pre tax
exceptional costs of £66.4 million of which £65.5
million relates to losses arising as a result of the
disposal.
Group turnover from continuing operations increased
by 9.1% to £82.1 million (2002: £75.3 million) and
profit on ordinary activities before interest, goodwill
amortisation and exceptionals grew by 5.7% to 
£31.1 million (2002: £29.4 million). EBITDA before
exceptional costs increased by 11.3% to 
£39.4 million (2002: £35.4 million).
Against a difficult economic and competitive
environment personal storage operating profit before
goodwill amortisation increased 5.6% to £8.0 million
(2002: £7.6 million). This was a result of market
pressures, to which we were slow to react. We are
addressing the issues of management in this division
and expect to see improvements over coming
periods.
The group’s share of the operating profit before
goodwill amortisation of IME grew by 57.0% to 
£5.6 million (2002: £3.5 million) and EBITDA by
49.8% to £7.7 million (2002: £5.1 million). These
results demonstrate the strength of this business 
and the fact that our investments in management,
systems and infrastructure are now paying off.
Serviced business space operating profits before
goodwill amortisation declined 3.7% to £17.5 million
(2002: £18.2 million).
Capital reorganisation and dividend
There will be no final dividend this year as the
company does not have sufficient distributable
reserves. If shareholders support the capital
reorganisation proposals, we shall seek the required
approval from the High Court. Assuming all consents
are received, this will put us in to a position from
which we shall be able to return funds to
shareholders when appropriate.
It would be our intention to resume dividend
payments and to pay a special one-off interim
dividend of 0.89p per ordinary share in lieu of this
year’s final dividend as soon as the requisite
approvals for the capital reorganisation are obtained.
The capital reorganisation will also allow the
company to initiate a programme of returning cash to
shareholders. 
Amended banking arrangements have been
negotiated for the continuing group which will
support general working capital requirements and
growth. This may involve proceeds being used to
fund organic growth and if the directors consider
such investments appropriate, acquisitions within the
personal storage and records management sectors.
In addition, at the annual general meeting, the
company intends to seek an authority from
shareholders for the power to purchase up to 10% of
its own ordinary shares for subsequent cancellation.
The directors will only use this authority if, in the light
of market conditions prevailing at the time, they
believe that the effect of any purchase would be to
enhance earnings per share and be in the interests of
shareholders as a whole.
People
In thanking our staff for their loyalty and support I
recognise that it was a year when the business
environment was difficult and where a great many of
our people were affected by the uncertainties
surrounding the SBS sale. In these circumstances
their contribution has been exceptional.
Martin Nye is now firmly established as group chief
executive and he has already taken on full
responsibility for the group’s trading. He has led the
development of our ongoing strategy and will be
responsible for its delivery.  Following the annual
general meeting I shall move to the role of non-
executive chairman. I look forward to this change,
which will be in line with plans announced this time
last year. 
Trading update and outlook
All of our businesses have made an encouraging start
to the new financial year and are trading in line with
our plans.  Investments in management and
processes are being made but we are not
anticipating a return on this investment until later in
the financial year. The directors are confident of the
prospects and outlook for the continuing group in the
current financial year and are encouraged by the
prospects of the markets served by our two
continuing operations.
As previously announced, IME is participating in the
sale process for the records management business of
Hays plc. 
By focusing on personal storage and records
management, businesses with strong market
positions and growth prospects, we are providing a
firm base on which to implement a strategy of
delivering value to shareholders.  
Nick Smith
Chairman
9 July 2003 
Mentmore plc Annual Report 2003 3
