 APG01 | AR13 | 31/03/2014 | FRONT proof 13
GROUP OVERVIEW 
Chairman’s statement
Despite the current challenges facing the global mining industry, Anglo Pacific 
continued its underlying profitability during the period. We have maintained our total 
dividend for the year, despite the headline loss reported, as we view the potential 
outlook for the business as being one where we expect to see future growth. 
We are pleased to welcome Julian Treger and Mark Potter as the Company’s new Chief Executive 
Officer and Chief Investment Officer respectively. Julian and Mark joined late in 2013 from Audley 
Capital Advisors LLP, an investment advisory firm managing value-orientated, special situations 
investment strategies through hedge fund and co-investment vehicles. Both have a strong track record  
of investing in the mining sector and a level of financial expertise that we believe will be of considerable 
benefit to Anglo Pacific’s current portfolio of royalty investments and also to future acquisitions.  
In particular, they bring with them new avenues for acquiring and creating royalties and opportunities 
for a wider spectrum of new investors in the Company. Julian and Mark invested £2.5m in new Anglo 
Pacific shares and the expectation is for them to increase their shareholding as the Company grows. 
We believe that there is increasing demand for alternative financing in the base metals and bulk 
materials sector. This should provide many opportunities to acquire value-accretive royalties, increasing 
and diversifying the Group’s revenue sources.
Our ambitions to expand are underpinned by our cornerstone asset, the Kestrel royalty. The completion 
of Rio Tinto’s US$2bn capex program on its new Kestrel South mine underlines its commitment to  
the Kestrel operations. Rio Tinto’s production update for Q4 2013 reflects substantial increases across 
both its coking coal and thermal coal operations and further strengthens our conviction in Kestrel’s 
ability to meaningfully contribute to EBITDA growth for the Group in the medium-term.
Our adjusted profit (refer to page 30) of £9.1m (2012: £9.4m (restated)), which excludes non-cash 
impairment and valuation items and their associated tax impact, demonstrates that the underlying 
business of the Group remains profitable. The Group’s strategic equity investments, currently 
representing 7.7% of its assets, amount to £20.1m as at December 31, 2013. Despite difficulties in  
the junior mining markets during the year, the Group realised £5.3m in cash from the sale of equities 
where a royalty was no longer considered achievable. The Group plans to retain a select group of 
strategic equity investments, which is hoped will enable future royalty discussions.
In November 2013, the Group was pleased to announce the signing of a co-investment agreement  
with FlowStream Commodities Ltd (‘FlowStream’), an oil & gas streaming and royalty company.  
Anglo Pacific was also a founding shareholder in this venture. The agreement entitles the Group to 
participation in FlowStream’s first five investments. 
Appointment of Julian Treger  
and Mark Potter as CEO and CIO
Total dividend for 2013 maintained  
at 10.2p 
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 06 APG01 | AR13 | 31/03/2014 | FRONT proof 13
Cornerstone asset commences production  
at Kestrel South following completion  
of Rio Tinto US$2bn capex program 
Impairment has been widespread across the international mining industry amidst falling commodity 
prices and continued tightening in the capital markets. We believe that Anglo Pacific is well placed to 
endure these challenges and the underlying business of the Group has remained profitable. We have  
not escaped our own impairments, particularly in our strategic equity investments, most of which  
are junior mining equities. However, as these are carried at market value at each reporting date, this  
has had little impact on the balance sheet. There have also been impairment charges in relation to  
some of the Group’s long dated royalties where macro-economic conditions may delay the eventual 
production expected from them.
The Company is pleased to recommend a final dividend for 2013 of 5.75p per share, maintaining a total 
dividend of 10.2p per share, equalling the level paid out to shareholders for the year ended December 
31, 2012. This reflects our confidence in future production from Kestrel and our other producing royalties 
as well as our ability to acquire additional cash-producing royalties in the near-term.
Board
It was with great sadness that on January 7, 2014 Peter Boycott passed away. Peter had served as 
Chairman of the Board of the Company since 1997. He stepped down as Chairman in August 2012  
for health reasons but was still able to participate actively at Board meetings and to chair the Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’) in May 2013. With his tireless energy and business skills, Peter made an 
enormous contribution to the Company’s recovery and growth over the past decade, transforming it  
into the successful mining royalty company it is today. As I took on the role of Acting Chairman due to 
Peter’s ill health, I will be stepping down from this intermediary position and will not be offering myself 
for re-election at the next AGM. I will be handing over to Mike Blyth, who will succeed me as Non-
Executive Chairman with effect from April 1, 2014. John Whellock and Michael Atkinson will also be 
stepping down from the Board at the next AGM. I would like to thank both John and Michael for their 
contribution to the Company over the years and have every confidence in Mike, and the rest of the  
team, in leading Anglo Pacific through a new period of growth.
Finally, I am pleased to welcome Robert Stan onto the Board. Robert is a Canadian national with a 
prominent background in the mining industry, most recently serving as CEO for Grande Cache Coal 
Corporation until the company was sold in 2012 for US$1bn. His extensive knowledge and experience  
in the mining industry makes him a strong addition and his particular focus on the coal sector should 
provide valuable insights to the Group’s bulk materials royalties. His considerable network of contacts 
within the Canadian investment community will also prove beneficial as the Company seeks to  
expand its North American investor base.
Renewed focus on near-term,  
cash-producing royalties
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 07
GROUP OVERVIEW APG01 | AR13 | 31/03/2014 | FRONT proof 13
Outlook
The Group enters 2014 with cautious optimism. The mining majors appear to be focused on increasing 
returns to their shareholders, which they are trying to achieve through renewed focus on the efficiency  
of their existing operations. Cutbacks have been announced for many new projects, which over  
the medium and long-term should positively affect the supply/demand balance across commodities.
In the meantime, opportunities continue to arise for alternative financing in the base metals and bulk 
materials sector. The Group is currently assessing a number of suitable opportunities and we look 
forward to updating shareholders as and when these materialise. 
In conclusion, I would like to thank all my colleagues for their considerable energy and unstinting 
dedication to the running of our Company throughout the year. 
On behalf of the Board
B.M. Wides 
Acting Chairman
March 31, 2014
GROUP OVERVIEW 
Chairman’s statement
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 08
