 Chief Executive’s 
review
Divestments during the year
Realising value in businesses at the 
appropriate time and returning all or part 
of this value to shareholders has been 
a fundamental part of the “buy, improve, 
sell” strategy that Melrose has followed 
since being founded 10 years ago. 
2013 has been another highly successful 
year for Melrose as we continue to 
“improve” elements of the portfolio and 
have implemented the “sell” phase of 
our strategy. In the second half of the year, 
we completed the disposals of five of our 
“FKI” businesses for a total consideration 
of approximately £950 million, having 
more than tripled the shareholder value 
in respect of these businesses in five 
years of Melrose ownership. In July 2013, 
Melrose sold Truth Hardware to Tyman 
PLC for £135 million. In the following 
month, we completed the disposal of 
Marelli Motori to an affiliate of The Carlyle 
Group, for a total consideration of 
£177 million. In November 2013, the 
disposal of Crosby and Acco to an affiliate 
of KKR & Co LP, was completed for 
a consideration of £633 million. Finally 
in December 2013, Melrose disposed of 
Harris Waste Management Group to Avis 
Industrial Corporation.
Return of capital
Following these divestments, and in 
accordance with our strategy, we 
announced in January 2014 our intention 
to use part of the proceeds of the 
disposals to return approximately 
£600 million in cash to shareholders 
and to undertake a share consolidation 
on an 11 for 13 basis. The balance of the 
net sale proceeds have been used to 
pay down Melrose’s existing borrowings.
Improving the portfolio
Elster
Following the sale of Crosby and Acco, 
the three Elster businesses represent two 
thirds of the revenue of the continuing 
Group. In the 18 months since their 
acquisition, the improvement programmes 
implemented within the Elster businesses 
are yielding significant results. 
The Gas business has benefited from 
strategic and operational initiatives including 
the closure of uneconomic facilities, new 
product launches and the rationalisation 
and relocation of manufacturing operations. 
The Gas business is well positioned to 
benefit from a continued growth in gas 
usage across the world. 
Operating profits in the Electricity business 
have improved significantly as a result of 
the relocation, reorganisation and 
consolidation of operational and functional 
activities both in North America and Europe. 
New products and technologies have 
been launched, enhanced quality control 
processes implemented and improvements 
to the supply chain initiated. Across the 
global market, regulatory frameworks are 
being put in place to upgrade the metering 
infrastructure from traditional metering to 
Smart meter solutions, providing significant 
growth opportunities.
In the Water business, operating profit has 
also improved substantially following the 
completion of a restructuring programme, 
product and business rationalisation and 
new product launches. Water is well 
positioned for growth.
(1) Restated to include the Truth, Marelli, 
Crosby, Acco and Harris results within 
discontinued operations.
(2) Before exceptional costs, exceptional 
income and intangible asset amortisation.
(3) Assuming a full year’s ownership of  
Elster in 2012, as explained in the  
Finance Director’s review.
Headline
(2)
 operating profit
£274.9m
2012
2013
£228.5m
(1), (3)
£274.9m
Revenue
£1,732.8m
2012
2013
£1,791.9m
(1), (3)
£1,732.8m
12
 Melrose Industries PLC 
Annual Report 2013
Strategic Report Bridon
Turning to the rest of the Group, Bridon’s 
trading results in 2013 were marginally 
down on 2012. Reductions in operating 
expenditure in the mining industry 
continued to impact demand for mining 
ropes and this has offset improved trading 
conditions in other core sectors such as 
the oil & gas, commercial construction  
and industrial markets. The difficult trading 
circumstances in the mining sector are 
expected to continue for at least the first 
half of 2014. 
Bridon’s strategy is to be a global 
technology leader for demanding rope 
applications. Bridon’s new factory in 
Newcastle, UK, is fully operational and the 
Bridon Technology Centre, providing state 
of the art product design, development 
and testing facilities, was opened in 
early 2013. During the year, 19 product 
development and enhancement projects 
were completed resulting in higher 
performance ropes for the mining,  
oil & gas and industrial sectors. 
Looking ahead, while the outlook for the 
mining sector remains uncertain, demand 
from the oil & gas sector is expected 
to be solid in 2014. At the same time, 
commercial construction and industrial 
activity continue to grow in China, 
and signs of recovery are also visible 
in the US. To mitigate the effects of the 
downturn in the mining sector, Bridon  
has focused on implementing operational 
efficiency improvements and strong 
working capital control.
Brush
Market dynamics for new generators  
are likely to remain subdued in 2014. 
However, Brush has outperformed the 
turbogenerator market with operational 
efficiency gains, a strong return on  
capital investment and growth in the 
aftermarket business. 
We are investing £30 million in a new 
manufacturing plant in China to meet the 
rapid growth in demand for gas turbines  
in the region. 
A key priority for Brush is the growth and 
development of the aftermarket business 
which, during 2013, was consolidated  
into a single focused global business  
unit. This restructuring, together with 
capital investment in an aftermarket 
workshop facility in the US and new 
service offerings, has driven order intake 
up 34%, on the previous year. 
Hawker Siddeley Switchgear had another 
strong year with sales and operating  
profit achieving gains of 6% and 37% 
respectively. Performance at the 
Transformers business also improved,  
with revenue up 6%, year-on-year. 
The medium to long-term outlook for 
power generation and the gas turbine 
market is positive and Brush is well placed 
to benefit from this and the additional 
growth opportunities in China and the 
aftermarket business.
“ 2013 has been another highly successful  
year for Melrose as we continue to 
‘improve’ elements of the portfolio and 
have implemented the ‘sell’ phase of  
our strategy.” 
Outlook
Overall market conditions remain 
challenging and sales growth in 2014 is 
not going to be easy to achieve. We are 
confident that we will see further progress 
in our Elster businesses in 2014. However, 
Bridon and Brush will find it more difficult 
to improve their performance. Foreign 
exchange rates have continued to become 
an increasing headwind into 2014.
We are actively looking for our next 
acquisition and are hopeful of progress 
this year although, as ever, we remain 
disciplined in applying our criteria.
Simon Peckham
Chief Executive
5 March 2014
Business strategy
Buy
Melrose aims to acquire good 
manufacturing businesses that are 
underperforming their potential. 
Businesses are targeted that have 
strong headline fundamentals, such  
as high quality products, or a leading 
market share, to generate sustainable 
cash flows, achieve profit growth  
and create value for shareholders.
Improve
The Melrose Directors are actively 
involved within each of the businesses, 
to agree strategy and targets, drive 
operational improvements, invest in  
the businesses it purchases and 
oversee change management.
Sell
At the appropriate time, each  
business will be disposed of, in order  
to return value that has been created  
to shareholders. The Directors are 
experienced in being able to recognise 
the appropriate time in the business 
cycle for disposal, in order to provide 
funding for acquisitions and return  
funds to investors.
13
 Melrose Industries PLC
Annual Report 2013
Strategic Report
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information
