 STRATEGIC REPORT 
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Starting to deliver on our strategy
The Narrabri acquisition, and associated  
fundraise, achieved several objectives at once: 
• We should significantly enhance our income 
for 2015, a year during which we expect 
Kestrel’s royalties to recover year on year but 
during which our income will still be below  
its ultimate expected run rate. 
• We diversified our dependence away from  
a sole asset, from coking coal and from one 
operator, whilst maintaining our focus on  
high-quality jurisdictions like Australia.  
• We brought a number of significant new 
institutional shareholders on to the shareholder 
register who we hope will be supportive for 
future opportunities.  
• We acquired a very long-life and high-quality 
royalty which should be generating royalty 
income until close to 2040, well after mining 
moves permanently outside our private royalty 
lands at Kestrel.
• We have also bolstered our financial resources 
such that we now have significant capacity  
in order to continue to deliver on our strategy 
to acquire new royalties, which in turn will 
support our dividend policy.
The Strategic Report includes a case study on  
 page 18  which illustrates the strategic criteria 
achieved by the acquisition of the Narrabri royalty.
The Narrabri acquisition came on the back of the 
smaller Maracás royalty acquisition in the middle 
of last year, which itself was followed by the 
retention of a royalty over the assets of Atrum 
Coal in Canada in the third quarter following the 
sale of our Panorama coal licences.
I am pleased to report that, following the 
completion of the Narrabri royalty acquisition, 
the Group will have six royalties which are in 
production compared to just three when I joined 
18 months ago. Thus the transformation strategy 
is beginning to bear fruit, though there are many 
more steps on the road ahead.
Challenging environment
Despite this achievement, 2014 as a year was  
a challenging one for our Company and for  
the natural resources sector. The continued 
weakening of growth in emerging economies, 
together with a slower than expected recovery 
in the world economy, saw further softening in 
the demand for commodities. As a result, there 
were sharp declines in the prices for most of  
the commodities the Group’s royalties are 
generated from.
Even with the Group’s derisked royalty model, 
which limits our direct exposure to operating  
or capital cost inflation of the underlying mine 
operations, the effects of such a difficult macro-
economic climate on the mine operators meant 
the Group was not immune to challenges. During 
the year, London Mining PLC, the operator of the 
Isua project, entered administration, whilst Zamin 
Group fell behind in their efforts to reconstruct  
the Santana port, essential for exporting their iron 
ore from the Amapá mine. These developments 
resulted in the Group recognising £24.6m in 
impairment charges against the carrying value  
of the royalties connected to these, and other, 
projects.
In addition to the reduced income at Amapá, 
production at Kestrel remained largely outside 
the Group’s private royalty area for much of  
the year which, when combined with lower 
metallurgical coal prices, resulted in royalty 
related income falling from £14.7m in 2013 to 
£3.5m in 2014. Despite supplementing the 
reduced income levels with some £8.7m in cash 
generated through the disposal of non-core 

ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 14
APG11 | AR14 | 24.03.15 | FRONT - Proof 9
Although it came after the year end, undoubtedly  
the highlight of the past 12 months was the successful 
acquisition and fundraising for the Narrabri royalty. equity interests, together with monetising the 
Panorama coal assets, with Kestrel performing 
well below expectations in the last quarter of 
2014, it was appropriate to revisit the Group’s 
dividend policy as described by your Chairman  
in his report. 
The dividend should be protected by the gradual 
return to mining within our royalty lands in 2015 
at Kestrel. We estimate, based on Rio Tinto’s 
forecast, that 20-25% of mining at Kestrel will 
be within our royalty lands in the first half of 
2015, increasing to 70-75% in the second half 
and, longer term, over 90% by 2017.
Positioned to take advantage  
of opportunities
The acquisition of the Maracás royalty during  
the year and the Narrabri royalty subsequent to 
the year end, both of which are in production, 
support the Group’s ability to deliver on its 
revised dividend policy.
We also entered into a new $30.0m revolving 
credit facility in March 2015, as part of the 
Narrabri transaction which replaced the existing 
$15.0m, shorter-term facility. This has a three-
year term, is secured on certain of the Group’s 
assets and has a margin of 250 basis points over 
LIBOR. Although large amounts of structured 
debt is not something which we consider 
appropriate for our assets, we do need to take 
advantage, prudently, of low-cost financing 
opportunities available to us. 
We are pleased to announce today the 
appointment of Macquarie Bank and Peel Hunt  
as brokers to work alongside BMO Capital 
Markets. We believe the three of them provide  
us with good coverage in the major mining and 
financial centres of the world.
Outlook
We are optimistic for the long-term outlook of 
coking coal, produced by Kestrel, and thermal 
coal, produced by Narrabri. We are not calling  
the bottom but the risk is now to the upside.  
The global power and steel industries rely on coal, 
but roughly half the industry is uncompetitive at 
current prices. This is an unsustainable situation 
and prices will likely recover in the years ahead  
as high cost production capacity is closed.
Whilst we are very comfortable with our current 
coal exposure, we will focus in the months ahead 
on diversifying the portfolio away from coal and 
other bulk commodities. In this respect, base 
commodities like copper will be where we hope 
to put more capital to work and we have several 
interesting opportunities currently in the pipeline.  
Anglo Pacific is well placed to make countercyclical 
investments at prices which are now well below 
the recent norm. Acquiring royalties that exceed 
our minimum internal return targets should provide 
shareholders with confidence in the Group’s ability 
to meet its revised dividend policy, along with  
the potential for upside should commodity prices 
recover in the medium term.  
Following the payment of the interim dividend in 
February along with the completion of the Narrabri 
acquisition, the Group currently has over £3.5m 
in cash and $24m undrawn on our revolving 
credit facility. With the additional income which 
Narrabri and Kestrel should bring in 2015, we are 
well funded to maintain our dividend payments 
and to take advantage of opportunities which 
may present themselves in the short term. 
We look forward to building on our recent 
progress in the months ahead.
J.A. Treger
Chief Executive Officer 
March 24, 2015
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 15
STRATEGIC REPORT
APG11 | AR14 | 24.03.15 | FRONT - Proof 9
Anglo Pacific is well placed to make countercyclical 
investments at prices well below the recent norm.
