 GROUP OVERVIEW 
Chairman’s statement
2014 has been a challenging year  
for Anglo Pacific and its shareholders.  
We have suffered, not just from the 
wider travails of the mining sector, but 
also from an over-reliance on one asset, 
our Kestrel royalty, where, during the 
year, mining took place mostly outside 
our royalty lands. While this trend at 
Kestrel is expected to reverse during  
the current year and beyond, in 2014  
it resulted in a fall of £11.2m in royalty 
income to £3.5m and an operating  
loss of £2.8m (2013: operating profit 
£10.6m).
Non-cash impairments and revaluations totalling 
£43.4m (2013: £56.9m) led to an overall loss 
before tax of £42.4m (2013: loss £52.9m).
Dividends
One direct consequence of the fall in our royalty 
income was our decision to review our dividend 
policy. As stated in our announcement of 
February 4, 2015, we, as a Board, are committed 
to a progressive dividend policy but one that is 
affordable and appropriate. We are, therefore, 
recommending a final dividend for the year ended 
December 31, 2014, of 4p per share. Longer term, 
we intend to adopt a policy of paying dividends  
of at least 65% of adjusted earnings, with an 
expectation that there will be a minimum annual 
total dividend of 8p per share per annum.
The over-reliance on Kestrel has reinforced  
the need to diversify our royalty portfolio. It was, 
therefore, with great pleasure that we were able 
to announce the acquisition of the Narrabri royalty 
in February 2015, which is a first major step down 
the diversification route and will hopefully provide 
a springboard for further progress down that path 
in the months and years ahead. Increased 
diversification will help smooth our income flow 
year on year and enable us to pay maintainable 
and progressive dividends to our shareholders.
Share price
In the fundraising associated with the Narrabri 
royalty acquisition, it was encouraging to see  
the level of support from existing shareholders.  
We are very grateful for the confidence shown 
to both the Company and its strategy, particularly 
given the performance of the Company’s share 
price, which has more than halved during the 
year. The Board is confident that as soon as 
there is a more positive sentiment towards the 
mining sector there should be a recovery in our 
share price, underpinned as it is by a healthy 
dividend yield and the current discount to net 
asset value. The Board demonstrated this 
confidence by committing significant sums  
to the recent fundraising.
Narrabri 
Acquisition of the Narrabri royalty  
in March 2015, a first major step  
down the diversification route 
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 06
APG11 | AR14 | 24.03.15 | FRONT - Proof 9 Board
2014 has seen significant changes to the Board. 
The sad death of Peter Boycott, the retirements  
of Brian Wides, John Whellock and Michael 
Atkinson, the appointment of Robert Stan and 
my appointment as Non-Executive Chairman 
were dealt with in last year’s Annual Report.  
I should like, however, to pay a particular tribute  
to Brian Wides. Brian joined the Board in 1997 
and held many positions including Finance 
Director, Chief Executive and finally Acting 
Chairman. The Anglo Pacific of today is the 
result of Brian’s energy, industry knowledge  
and commercial acumen, working in tandem 
with Peter Boycott, with whom he formed a 
formidable partnership.
Since then Paul Cooke has stepped off the Board 
and I should like to thank him for his contribution 
to the Group during his time with us. We have 
appointed Rachel Rhodes and David Archer as 
Non-Executive Directors. Rachel is a chartered 
accountant and has over 15 years of mining 
experience including time with Anglo American 
PLC and London Mining PLC. David has over  
34 years of resources industry experience 
covering most parts of the world. He is currently 
chief executive of AIM-listed Savannah Resources 
PLC with involvement in a mineral sands project  
in Mozambique and a copper project in Oman. 
Rachel and David have already made significant 
contributions to the deliberations of the Board.
Anthony Yadgaroff has advised that he intends 
to step down from the Board on December 31, 
2015 after almost 13 years’ service. I should  
like to take the opportunity now to thank him for 
his hard work, diligence and sage advice during 
that period.
Our Strategic Report
Our 2014 Strategic Report, from pages 8 to 35, 
was reviewed and approved by the Board of 
Directors on March 24, 2015.
Outlook
While the mining sector continues to have its 
challenges, that in itself brings opportunities for 
Anglo Pacific. With the addition of the Narrabri 
royalty and the associated fundraising, we have 
demonstrated our ability to source and conclude 
significant acquisitions. We, therefore, see 
ourselves as ideally placed to take advantage of 
future opportunities as they present themselves.
In conclusion, I should like to thank all Directors 
and staff for their diligence and hard work during 
what has been a challenging year.
On behalf of the Board
W.M. Blyth
Chairman
March 24, 2015
Opportunities 
We see ourselves as ideally placed to  
take advantage of future opportunities as  
they present themselves
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 07
GROUP OVERVIEW
APG11 | AR14 | 24.03.15 | FRONT - Proof 9
