 Stock Code: MRX Metalrax Group PLC  Annual Report 2008
06
16043 12/06/2009 Proof 10
Strategy, objectives and actions
The key strategic objectives for the year announced by the Group 
were: to stop losses and exit non-core businesses; to turnaround 
and strengthen the strategic focus of existing core businesses and 
to further progress the acquisition strategy on businesses in target 
growth sectors.
Though the current economic situation has not fundamentally 
altered the underlying strategy, it has impacted the Group’s tactics 
and approach in a number of ways. Most apparent has been the 
acceleration of the closure and disposal programme for non-core 
businesses, which has moved apace. However, the inability to 
maximise asset sales, caused by weak market conditions, has brought 
challenges of its own. The overall result has been a significantly 
increased focus on cash conservation and cost reduction in lieu of 
business acquisitions. 
Despite the factors described above, the overall strategic goals of the 
Group remain to:
n Be a specialist engineering Group;
n Focus on businesses that operate in niche markets, have 
significant growth potential and barriers to entry, and that can 
each be expected to contribute meaningful profits; and
n Pursue organic growth and increased margins by focussing on 
innovation in products, services and distribution.
Chief Executive’s Review
Andrew Richardson
Chief Executive
“Current economic conditions reafﬁ rm 
the need for the Group’s repositioning 
into growing defensible niche sectors 
in line with the January 2008 strategic 
review”
Strategic achievements to date include the acquisition of US based 
PGL, a world leading manufacturer of isolated electrical power 
systems and electric raceways for the medical, laboratory and 
educational sectors. Acquired in January 2008 for £3.2m, PGL has 
exceeded management’s expectations and significantly enhanced its 
operating profit in the year ended December 2008. 
The Group has also successfully refocused its Consumer Durables 
division through the consolidation of its RTA Wineracks business into 
GW International, and by relocating its Samuel Groves operation to 
reduce costs and altering the focus of its business model. 
Specific accomplishments of the Specialist Engineering division 
include the streamlining of the Group’s coating operation through 
the consolidation of its Fabricote businesses into Cooper Coated 
Coil; the closure of three construction sector dependent businesses, 
Makespace Mezzanine Floors, Down and Francis, and Stackright 
Building Systems; and the stabilisation of the remaining construction 
sector reliant Premier Stairways business. 
All high volume automotive operations were exited during 2008, 
including the sale of Bacol Fine Blanking, MRX Automotive, and the 
Welland distribution businesses. As well as this, the Group ceased 
automotive manufacturing in Romania.
Alongside all these activities the Group’s net borrowings at the end of 
the year were £12.5m (2007: £12.6m) despite having acquired PGL 
for £3.2m. Cash generated in 2009 from business and property sales 
amounted to £1.2m.
The Group also transferred its listing from the Main Market to 
AIM on the 25 June 2008, thereby lowering compliance costs 
and enabling the more efficient and cost-effective execution of 
restructuring activities.
16043METALRAX A.indd   06 17/06/2009   05:13 Metalrax Group PLC  Annual Report 2008 www.metalraxgroup.co.uk
}niche }innovative }customer focused
07
Our Business Our Governance Our Accounts
16043 12/06/2009 Proof 10
Case Study
COOPER COATED COIL
During 2008 the relocation and fit out of Cooper Coated Coil 
(CCC) began in earnest. The £5.0m expansion project, which was 
agreed upon following the integration of the former Fabricote 
business in 2006, involved the commission of what is believed to 
be the world’s widest and fastest high temperature coil coating 
line, providing additional speed and flexibility as well as the ability 
to handle much larger coils. 
 
The new line has been installed at the company’s 32,000 sq.ft 
fully refurbished and reorganised premises at Wednesfield in 
Wolverhampton where operations have already been transferred.  
A further relocation and upgrading of CCC’s finishing operation 
to an additional building on the Wolverhampton site is also under 
consideration.
 
The integration and expansion of the business is expected to lead 
to cost savings, space consolidation, reduction of manufacturing 
lead times and improvement in operating efficiencies. The 
ISO14001 accredited business has also ensured that a state-of-
the-art environmental abatement scheme is in place in the form 
of an innovative heat recycling process. What’s more energy 
consumption is expected to be reduced once the commissioning 
process is fully complete.
 
The investment has reinforced the capital intensive equipment 
and intellectual property, of a process that already possesses high 
barriers to entry. As a result the company has begun to develop a 
broad range of new and existing markets, including the export of 
product to China and its predominantly housewares and kitchen 
appliance-based markets. 
16043METALRAX A.indd   07 17/06/2009   05:13 Stock Code: MRX Metalrax Group PLC  Annual Report 2008
08
16043 12/06/2009 Proof 10
Chief Executive’s Review
Review of 2008 performance
2008 was a year of substantial change and also saw the onset of the 
current financial crisis. Despite this, for the year ended 31 December 
2008 the Group reports revenues of £74.8m (2007: £70.2m) from 
continuing activities.
Adjusted operating profit before exceptional items, goodwill 
impairment and share-based payments was £2.0m (2007: £2.6m). 
After exceptional items, the Group incurred a loss before tax and 
discontinued operations of £2.2m (2007: Loss of £5.2m). Losses 
from discontinued operations amounted to £13.1m (2007: £4.8m), 
reflecting losses in the year and write-down in asset values as 
explained in the Financial Review, resulting in a Group loss for the 
year of £16.2m (2007: Loss of £7.0m).
Group adjusted earnings per share before exceptional items were 
1.10p (2007: 4.36p) and basic losses per share were 13.55p (2007: 
Losses of 5.83p). Further details are shown in note 8.
Net debt at 31 December 2008 stood at £12.5m (31 December 2007: 
£12.6m) representing gearing of 40.1% (2007: 24.8%).
The 2008 results are reported in line with the simplified divisional 
structure implemented during the year which comprises two divisions 
— Consumer Durables and Specialist Engineering.
During 2008 significant operational progress was made across both 
divisions through the strengthening of management competencies 
and through the restructuring of the Executive Board and the 
divisional organisation. We have also focused on developing and 
strengthening subsidiary managing Directors, which will facilitate 
the Group’s ongoing progress and further development of other 
senior staff has commenced. Focused investment is now being 
undertaken in Sales and Marketing to drive local growth initiatives. 
The repositioning of the Group, as outlined in my strategic review in 
January last year has made great strides with the acquisition of Post 
Glover LifeLink and the disposal, by closure or sale, of six trading 
entities during the year and one since the year end.
Consumer Durables
Revenues from continuing activities were down 0.8% to £25.5m 
(2007: £25.7m).
Operating profit before exceptional items was down 25.0% to £1.5m 
(2007: £2.0m). Operating profit after exceptional items has increased 
to £0.5m (2007: Loss of £0.2m) as a result of lower exceptional items 
in the period.
Businesses in this division are market leaders in bakeware and 
microwave cookware sold in the UK. The division’s major brands 
are Mermaid, Long Life, Progress, RTA and Microwise. In November 
2008, RTA won a trade award — “Innovative Product of the Year” 
for RTA Eco Chef Chopping Boards, made from recycled cardboard. 
Financial performance of this division was adversely affected by the 
weakening of Sterling against the US Dollar in the second half of the 
year. Increased steel prices in the latter part of 2008 and the start of 
2009 also affected short-term margins. This division also has potential 
exposure to retail business failures evidenced by the rapid demise of 
Woolworths, which was a major customer. However, management 
has minimised the risks of bad debts through careful credit control. 
In addition, the professional catering market has been affected by 
the downturn in investment by hotels, pubs and restaurants across 
the UK. 
However, the largest part of the division’s sales and margin comes 
from bakeware. This market has remained strong as European 
consumers choose to eat at home rather than eat out. As well as 
being motivated by the economic conditions, an increased awareness 
of healthy eating is encouraging consumers to return to home 
cooking instead of convenience foods. These products are ‘need 
to have’ rather than ‘nice to have’. The main adverse impact of the 
recession on bakeware products is in the UK where retailers have 
focused on lower margin promotions. Our response to this includes 
operational efficiency improvements enabled by the higher volume 
nature of such promotions.
A number of structural changes and investments were made to our 
Consumer Durables businesses during the year:
n Samuel Groves, our catering equipment business was relocated 
at the end of the year to new premises and remodelled, reducing 
operating and logistics costs. The relocation was completed in 
January 2009, enabling its management now to concentrate 
on sales growth, based around a more clearly focused product 
range, with high levels of service already being delivered to the 
customer. 
n Our wine rack business, RTA has transferred its administration, 
warehousing and distribution functions to the GW International 
site, reducing costs and improving economies of scale in terms of 
customer support. 
n GW International 69%
n Samuel Groves 19%
n RTA Wine Racks 12%
Consumer Durables
Revenue 2008
16043METALRAX A.indd   08 17/06/2009   05:13 Metalrax Group PLC  Annual Report 2008 www.metalraxgroup.co.uk
}niche }innovative }customer focused
09
Our Business Our Governance Our Accounts
16043 12/06/2009 Proof 10
The sales team across the division now has a wider range of products 
to sell to the existing customer base, to create more opportunities. 
We introduced exclusive Teflon
®
 bakeware made in China, in a 
worldwide exclusive arrangement negotiated with Du Pont, with 
the first shipments made to Lakeland Limited in September 2008. 
Further new product developments included the introduction of 
the Annabel Karmel licensed children’s bakeware range. Annabel 
Karmel is a world renowned specialist in advice and re-assurance 
to parents with children under 10. Moving into 2009 we plan to 
continue with further investment on automated processes in our 
bakeware manufacture to improve our competitive position. Tooling 
developments are underway in China to meet international customer-
specific demands for bakeware development.
2009 has begun with margins in this division still under pressure from 
the effects of the weakened Sterling and the impact of rising steel 
prices, although actions are ongoing to pass on these price increases 
wherever possible, whilst retaining the goodwill of our customers 
who are increasingly focused on promotions to create market share.
The medium-term outlook is favourable, as our investments and 
actions are aimed at producing progressive improvements to take 
advantage of the current trading climate and establish future profit 
improvements.
Specialist Engineering
Revenues from continuing activities were up 10.8% to £49.3m 
(2007: £44.5m).
Operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill impairment 
was up 81.0% to £3.8m (2007: £2.1m). Operating profit after 
exceptional items and goodwill impairment has increased to £2.2m 
(2007: loss of £2.5m) as a result of lower exceptional items in the 
period.
Investment in the key businesses, the acquisition of Post Glover 
LifeLink, divestment and consolidation of non-core businesses 
provided the focal point for the progress made in Specialist 
Engineering during 2008. 
Investment in new capital equipment at Cooper Coated Coil (CCC) 
allowed the consolidation of CCC with its sister company Fabricote 
to be completed. This investment programme has given us the most 
efficient coil coating bakeware line in the world. CCC now has the 
largest market share of pre-coated metal for the bakeware market 
within the European Community. Aggressive financial targets were 
met, allowing the business to double its profitability compared with 
the previous year. The business commenced the supply of coil coated 
products to China for resale back to Europe during 2008. The market 
for this business has remained reasonably strong during 2008 and 
early 2009, as European consumers move towards home cooking, 
motivated by the economic conditions and increased awareness of 
healthy eating benefits.
Post Glover Lifelink, which was acquired by the Group for £3.2m in 
January 2008 performed ahead of management expectations. PGL, 
which is based in Northern Kentucky, supplies medical electrical and 
safety equipment and is an increasingly strong force within its domestic 
and export markets. The business was successfully integrated into the 
Group and showed strong sales and profit growth under Metalrax’s 
first year of ownership. Investments have been made in new product 
development, restructuring of manufacturing operations and export 
growth. Whilst some of the benefits of these investments were seen in 
2008, further benefits will come through in 2009. These benefits will 
help counteract the effects of the US recession, from which PGL and its 
market are sheltered but not unaffected.
Weston Body Hardware is a specialist full service light assembly 
business focused on access control systems. It was impacted by 
the recession from Q4 2008 and this has continued into early 
2009. However, management are forecasting recovery in the 
second half of 2009 following new trading agreements in Europe, 
and will focus on developing opportunities in ‘green energy 
generating systems’ and medical assembly.
Toolspec is recognised as a specialist fabricator to the global vehicle 
market. Although the customer base is dominated by off-highway 
and specialist vehicle manufacturers, management dealt swiftly and 
effectively with the sudden downturn within this sector in late 2008. 
The business also secured orders to provide chassis components for 
the new Jaguar XJ vehicle to be launched in Q4 2009. The business is 
now well placed for a recovery in vehicle volumes.
Metalrax Storage launched a major drive in 2008 to increase market 
share through more focused marketing and sales activity. This 
culminated in securing two prestigious projects as well as a major 
UK government framework agreement. The market for its products 
declined sharply in Q4 2008 and underlying market demand in early 
2009 remains poor. However, the business has retained its major 
retail customers, some of which are continuing to increase the 
number of store refits during 2009. 
n Copper Coated Coil 35%
n Advance Handling 5%
n Commercial Bearings 3%
n Metalrax Storage 10%
n Premier Stairways 6%
n Sections & Tubes 5%
n Toolspec 12%
n Weston Body Hardware 14%
n Post Glover Lifelink 8%
n MRX Romania 2%
Specialist Engineering 
Revenue 2008
16043METALRAX A.indd   09 17/06/2009   05:14 Stock Code: MRX Metalrax Group PLC  Annual Report 2008
10
16043 12/06/2009 Proof 10
Sections & Tubes manufactures rolled steel sections for UK 
manufacturers including Metalrax Storage. Such manufacturers were 
impacted by the recessionary climate during 2008 and early 2009. 
Management has concentrated on reducing costs, whilst developing 
the skills of the workforce to increase flexibility and make the 
changes demanded by the marketplace.
Advanced Handling offers bespoke materials handling solutions, 
mainly to the UK market. It launched a significant new product 
during 2008 — a specialist elevator for mezzanine floors. The 
business enjoyed growth in its niche products and new market 
sectors, offsetting the decline in the sales of standard products due to 
price pressures, which have continued into 2009. As a result of this 
change in product mix, sales remained static in 2008, with increased 
margins. The business is increasing its marketing emphasis to 
generate further sales into the healthcare, nuclear, military and food 
processing applications.
Premier Stairways, which was loss making in 2008, is now half way 
through a recovery programme. Its market for specialist architectural 
metalwork declined in the second half of 2008, specifically in the 
private housing, public housing, office and industrial sectors. Premier 
appointed a new Managing Director in late 2008 and now has a 
growing order bank and consistent factory throughput. It is focussing 
on building a solid and sustainable key customer base and improving 
factory productivity and customer service. 
A decline in demand at our Commercial Bearings business led to 
restructuring activity to reduce costs. This has proved insufficient 
to offset the drop in sales. The business is being run for cash 
while attempts are made to secure a sale of the business as a 
going concern.
Discontinued businesses
The strategy of the Group since January 2008 has been to stop 
losses and exit all non-strategic businesses. This strategy has proven 
even more appropriate as the economic environment has continued 
to deteriorate. A number of closures and disposals have been 
accelerated where markets have turned down very sharply or where 
there has been risk of significant cash costs (such as bad debts or 
future closure costs) arising from continuing operations.
Revenues for discontinued businesses for year ended 31 December 
2008 were £30.0m, 38.0% behind the prior year (2007: £48.4m). 
Losses after exceptional items and goodwill impairment relating to these 
businesses amounted to £13.1m (2007: £4.8m).
Bacol Fine Blanking traded in Metalrax ownership until February 
2008, when it was sold to Rical Limited. The business generated an 
operating profit of £1.0m from the beginning of the year until the 
point of sale, as a result of innovative management actions taken 
prior to transferring ownership. 
Down & Francis traded until June 2008 when it was closed. The 
operating loss in 2008 prior to closure was £0.2m. 
MRX Automotive (formerly Bacol Industries, Kenham Tools and 
Pressings and Prescott Powell) traded under Metalrax ownership until 
December 2008, when it was sold to Sertec Birmingham Limited. It 
generated an operating profit of £1.9m until the point of sale. We 
do not believe that it would have traded profitably in 2009. The 
significant costs of future closure were avoided by the disposal of 
this business. 
Stackright Building Systems suffered dramatically as a result of the 
downturn in the construction sector. It started the year strongly but 
was heavily exposed to price sensitive rental markets. The business 
traded until December 2008, when it was closed. The operating 
loss in 2008 was £0.9m, which rose to £5.0m, primarily goodwill 
impairment of £3.6m and closure costs of £0.5m.
Welland traded under Metalrax ownership until December 2008, 
when it was sold to a local businessman. The business generated a 
small operating profit until the point of sale, but exceptional costs on 
disposal reduced this to a loss of £0.2m. 
Makespace Mezzanine Floors was hit by cost pressures and bad debts 
within the construction downturn. It traded until December 2008, 
when it was closed. The operating loss in 2008 was £0.3m, which 
rose to £0.6m with closure costs.
BSC Diecasting was hit by the downturn in volumes within 
automotive and brewery trades. It traded until April 2009, when it 
was sold. The operating profit was £nil in 2008 with exceptional asset 
impairment charges of £0.6m. Potential closure costs of £0.5m were 
avoided by the disposal.
The Group retained the freehold properties from the business 
operations of Bacol Fine Blanking, MRX Automotive, Welland and 
BSC Diecasting. These properties are expected to generate rental 
incomes and will be available for disposal as and when appropriate. 
We have subsequently sold the freehold property relating to 
Makespace Mezzanine Floors and Stackright Building Systems. The 
freehold property formerly occupied by Samuel Groves has been 
retained and is currently being marketed for sale along with other 
vacant properties.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items in 2008 totalled £17.6m (2007: £12.2m), and 
were predominantly associated with the restructuring programme 
described above, with £14.2m (2007: £5.4m) relating to discontinued 
operations. Of the £17.6m charge, £11.6m is non-cash relating to 
goodwill and asset impairment. Further details about exceptional 
items is given in the Financial Review and in note 3 to the accounts. 
Chief Executive’s Review
16043METALRAX A.indd   10 17/06/2009   05:14 Metalrax Group PLC  Annual Report 2008 www.metalraxgroup.co.uk
}niche }innovative }customer focused
11
Our Business Our Governance Our Accounts
16043 12/06/2009 Proof 10
Case Study
POST GLOVER LIFELINK
Post Glover LifeLink (PGL), which became part of Metalrax Group 
PLC at the beginning of 2008, is a world leading manufacturer of 
isolated electrical power systems and electrical raceways for the 
medical, laboratory and educational sectors and is the number two 
supplier in each of its primary product markets.
In 2008 PGL shipped or installed over 1270 orders, whilst achieving 
an exemplary overall on-time delivery performance of 98%. PGL’s 
quality rating during this period was also an impressive 95%. 
With statistics like these achieved post acquisition and during the 
integration period, PGL is already proving to be a valued member 
of the Metalrax Group of companies. The business is recognised as 
“one of the best in its field” by the American Society of Healthcare 
Engineers (ASHE), National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) and 
the National Electrical Code authority (NEC). During 2008 PGL 
again achieved Preferred Supplier standing from General Electric, 
a well deserved achievement for the company’s highly dedicated 
team of employees and a great source of pride for Metalrax Group. 
President, Judy Kathman, is relentlessly committed to the pursuit 
of excellence at PGL. Her team is also dedicated to providing the 
highest quality customer service, the reward for which is a loyal 
customer base including the top four electrical packagers in North 
America – General Electric, EATON, Siemens and Square D and the 
largest hospital purchasing organizations in the US.
As well as supporting existing patient critical environments 
with their renowned suite of products, the company recognises 
continuous innovation in power safety is essential for long 
term growth. In 2008 PGL released a number of new products, 
expanding their Laboratory Power System (LPS) product line; 
enhancing their Line Isolation Monitor suite of products and 
introducing Lim-Connect® software to provide true connectivity 
of all Line Isolation Monitors over a facility’s standard Ethernet 
network infrastructure. 
16043METALRAX A.indd   11 17/06/2009   05:14 Stock Code: MRX Metalrax Group PLC  Annual Report 2008
12
16043 12/06/2009 Proof 10
People 
Since the Company embarked on implementing its new strategy, 
substantial management changes have taken place and we have 
invested significantly in people development amongst our continuing 
and new employees. This programme includes in-depth reviews of 
personal strengths, development opportunities, goals and objectives. 
Future development in 2009 will focus on commercial skills and 
strategies designed to support growth of profitable sales during 
the recession. All efforts are focused on building a strong and 
decentralised Group of companies.
During 2008 the number of Divisional Chief Executives was reduced 
from four to two, reflecting the restructuring of our businesses and 
the reduced number of operating subsidiaries.
The Executive Committee now comprises four executives: Group 
Chief Executive, Andrew Richardson; Group Finance Director, Michael 
Stock; Chief Operating Officer, Mike Smith, who is now responsible 
for both our Specialist Engineering and Consumer Durables 
Divisions; and Director of Corporate Development, Caroline Green, 
who is responsible for implementing business and asset disposals, 
acquisitions and corporate finance.
Working capital
Working capital remains a key area of focus for management. 
Throughout 2008, inventory reduced by £2.1m and trade and other 
receivables reduced by £5.8m, primarily as a result of the business 
closure and sale programme. Working capital in the continuing 
businesses declined slightly, notwithstanding the growth achieved by 
those businesses. Further detail is provided in the Financial Review. 
Current trading and prospects
Current economic conditions reaffirm the need for the Group’s 
repositioning into growing, defensible niche sectors in line with 
the January 2008 strategic review and we anticipate 2009 being a 
challenging year.
The Directors announced in March 2009 that trading in the first two 
months of 2009 was significantly below the levels experienced in 
2008 although subsequent trading has shown a slight improvement. 
However, against the current economic backdrop, visibility of future 
trading levels remains very limited and, in the Directors’ opinion, 
there remains a wide range of potential outcomes for the Group in 
the current financial year. Although trading has improved slightly 
during the course of 2009, if this trend does not improve further over 
coming months, the Directors would expect the Group’s performance 
in the current year to fall below current market expectations.
The Group has the benefit of having significantly reduced its exposure 
to the automotive and construction markets since the beginning of 
2008. However, parts of the Group remain exposed to these sectors. 
The Group has also moved into some market sectors related to British 
government spending. These market sectors now pose new risk 
due to the state of public finances in the UK. The lower technology 
businesses face continuing pressures on top line and margins. Our 
commercial catering business remains under pressure due to the lack 
of investment in hotels, restaurants and pubs.
However, there are a number of bright spots within our portfolio 
of businesses. The technology-led businesses within the Specialist 
Engineering division, such as Cooper Coated Coil and Post Glover 
LifeLink, possess proprietary technology and supply into defensible 
market sectors. The market for Post Glover LifeLink’s medical 
products in North America is defensible, as are its export markets, 
mainly in the Middle East. The European domestic bakeware market 
also remains strong, as consumers have switched from dining out to 
lower cost and healthier home cooking options. This is the largest 
market for our Consumer Durables business and it is also a significant 
sales driver for Cooper Coated Coil’s specialist steel coating products. 
Central and legacy costs have been a financial burden to the Group. 
However, as the Group reduces in complexity and reaches the final 
stages of its restructuring processes, it will be possible to reduce 
many of these costs. The benefits of these savings will start to appear 
in 2009 and will take on greater significance in 2010. 
Bank borrowings and overdrafts at the end of 2008 were at £12.5m 
(2007: £12.0m). During the first quarter of 2009 borrowings 
increased, as announced in March 2009. However, the Directors 
have instituted measures to preserve cash, which have resulted in 
borrowings reducing to a seasonal norm. 
The Group has enjoyed the benefit of an unencumbered balance 
sheet and well-priced borrowing facilities for many years. However, 
the current financing climate means that it is necessary for the Group 
to negotiate new, secured and committed refinancing. The Directors 
look forward to announcing progress with these negotiations in 
due course. Further details are provided in the Financial Review and 
note 1 to the financial statements.
In the short-term, the priority of the Board is to focus assiduously on 
cash conservation and cost reduction, creating the financial stability 
that will enable us to press ahead with our strategic plans.
AJ Richardson
Chief Executive
15 June 2009
Chief Executive’s Review
16043METALRAX A.indd   12 17/06/2009   05:14 Metalrax Group PLC  Annual Report 2008 www.metalraxgroup.co.uk
}niche }innovative }customer focused
13
Our Business Our Governance Our Accounts
16043 12/06/2009 Proof 10 16043METALRAX A.indd   13 17/06/2009   05:14
