 04
Chairman’s Statement
Annual Report 2007 Stock Code: MRX Metalrax Group PLC
Introduction
It has been a year of considerable change, culminating in the
appointment of our new Chief Executive, Andrew Richardson,
in October. The Board has empowered Andrew, who has
successfully managed turnarounds and growth during his 20
years in manufacturing industry, to lead Metalrax through a
time of necessary strategic and structural change. 
Following the year end the conclusions of his initial strategic
review were announced and we have started to implement the
resultant actions. Further details are set out in his Review of
Strategy which follows this statement.
Results
For the year ended 31 December 2007 Metalrax Group PLC
achieved revenue of £118.6 million (2006: £120.2 million).
Adjusted profit before exceptional items and tax was 
£2.3 million (2006: £6.5 million). After exceptional items, the
Group incurred a loss before tax of £9.9 million. Adjusted
earnings per share before exceptional items were 1.26p 
(2006: 3.72p) and basic (loss)/earnings per share were (5.83p)
(2006: 3.83p) (note 7).
Net debt at 31 December 2007 stood at £ 12.5 million 
(31 December 2006: £10.7 million) representing gearing 
of 24.8% (2006: 19.7%).
Dividend
As indicated in our trading update of 16 January 2008, the
Board has resolved to implement a new, progressive and
sustainable policy whereby dividends payable by the 
Company will be covered between 2.0 and 2.5 times by its
earnings. Accordingly, following the interim dividend of 1.65
pence per share which was paid in October 2007, there will be
no final dividend payable in respect of the year ended 
31 December 2007.
Acquisitions and disposals
Following the year end, we acquired Post Glover LifeLink, Inc
(PGL), from Halma p.l.c. for a cash consideration of £3.0
million. PGL, which is based in Erlanger, Kentucky, USA, is a
world leading manufacturer of isolated electrical power
systems and electrical raceways for the medical, laboratory and
educational sectors. The acquisition is in line with Metalrax’s
new stated strategy to supplement organic growth through
selective acquisitions of complementary technologies and
companies. It is immediately earnings enhancing and has been
funded from Metalrax’s existing cash and debt facilities.
In addition, we subsequently disposed of the net assets of the
Fine Blanking business, excluding its property, debtors and
creditors, for a cash consideration of approximately £0.5
million, to Rical Limited. This sale represented an important
step in the reorganisation of our existing operations and the
elimination of loss makers.
We expect to make further acquisitions and disposals in the
future. In terms of the latter we are reviewing our remaining
high volume, low margin automotive businesses and our 
loss-making Romanian business. 
Alternative Investment Market (AIM)
In light of our plans to make acquisitions and disposals and of
the Company’s market capitalisation, the Board is proposing to
move the Company’s shares from the Main Market to AIM.
The background to this proposal is set out in my letter
accompanying this Annual Report.
The Board and Management
We have made further changes to the Board structure during
2007, consistent with our Board succession planning referred
to at the time of the interim results. 
Richard Arbuthnot resigned as Group Chief Executive on 
12 October 2007, having announced his retirement plans in
May 2007. He was succeeded by Andrew Richardson. 
“It has been a year of considerable change,
culminating in the appointment of our new 
Chief Executive, Andrew Richardson, in October.”
John Crabtree Annual Report 2007 05 Metalrax Group PLC
Following the year end William Kelly resigned as Group
Finance Director and Company Secretary by mutual consent.
The Board implemented robust interim arrangements to
manage the Company’s financial reporting and controls 
while seeking a replacement and are pleased that, with effect
from 2 April 2008, Michael Stock joins as the new Group
Finance Director. 
Reg Fort, a non-executive Director, retired after the 2007
Annual General Meeting in May. The Board is delighted that Ian
Paling joins as a new Non-Executive Director from 4 April 2008. 
In addition to these changes, since the appointment of
Andrew Richardson as Chief Executive, fourteen senior
managers have left, and nine new senior managers have been
appointed to, the Group.
People
2007 has seen continued significant change throughout the
Group and this has been well supported by our people. On
behalf of the Board I would like to express our gratitude for
their continued endeavours.
Executive Benefits
The Board believes that it is appropriate to bring the various
executive incentive plans up to date and in line with current
best practice. Mercer Limited was appointed during 2007 to
review the exisiting provisions and changes arising from that
review are explained in the accompanying letter.
Pensions
The deficit in the Metalrax defined benefit pension scheme has
increased from £3.2 million last year to £3.4 million. This
scheme has been closed to new members since 1999. The
Board remains comfortable with the current funding
arrangements for the scheme.
Advisers
Following the year end we appointed Arden Partners plc as the
Company’s stockbroker and, in conjunction with NM
Rothschild and Sons Limited who were appointed in 2007,
financial adviser. A fresh team brings new energy and expertise
that is enormously helpful in a turnaround situation and both
firms are specialists in advising companies of Metalrax’s size
and nature. 
Outlook
The Board believes that the Group is in a very sound financial
position and has significant scope for improving its financial
performance. The Group’s balance sheet remains strong with
significant property assets and headroom within its current
banking facilities to underpin recovery and growth. Cash being
generated from operations will support the financial position,
allowing appropriate investments in organic and, where
appropriate, acquisitive growth.
Within the Group’s existing varied portfolio there are a number
of good quality businesses from which to build. Management
changes, together with a strategy focused on products that
can offer improved returns and profitable growth, will allow
Metalrax to take advantage of the potential that exists within
the Group.
I am pleased to report that we have had a satisfactory start to
the current financial year and view our prospects in 2008 with
confidence. A further update on current trading will be
provided at the time of the Company’s AGM in May. 
JRA Crabtree
Chairman
14 April 2008
