 Annual Report 2011
02
20660-04 03/10/2011 Proof 6
Chairman’s Statement
Introduction
The Group has been operating for nearly a full year uniquely 
as a companion animal veterinary supplies business, having 
divested itself of the agricultural supplies businesses of 
Ritchey, Fearing and Travik in the first half of the financial 
year. This has allowed your Group to focus and concentrate 
all its resources on growing the more profitable and stable 
veterinary medicines and Identichip ranges. We can now 
plan for acceleration in the introduction of new licensed 
pharmaceutical products for our growing veterinary medicine 
portfolio. These divestures, combined with continued strong 
cash generation in the companion animal supplies business, 
means that your Group is debt free at the year end; indeed 
it had cash balances of c£1.2 million at 30 June 2011 as 
opposed to net debt of c£2.9 million at the previous year end.
Financial Trading
In a flat veterinary market our “new” Animalcare business 
achieved record sales, margins and profits during this 
financial year. Sales increased by approximately 5 per 
cent and margins by 1 per cent, whilst overheads were 
well controlled being 1 per cent lower than last year. This 
has meant fully diluted earnings per share from continuing 
operations have risen from 8.5p to 11.2p, a full 31 per cent. 
This is a good performance. Unlike previous years, there 
are few exceptional or other items during this financial year. 
The Company announced, in our pre-close trading update 
issued in July, that following an extended period of poor 
supplies performance that had already damaged sales in 
the 2010–11 financial year Recipharm, the supplier of one of 
our important veterinary medicines Buprecare, had closed 
their sterile production unit in the UK and had ceased supply 
with immediate effect from 30 June 2011. As we had already 
taken steps to introduce a new supplier, we expect that we 
will be reintroducing Buprecare to our range during the last 
quarter of the coming financial year. The expected loss of 
turnover at the time was estimated to be up to £450K for 
2011/2012. The Board is confident that once supplies are 
available again we can soon win back lost sales and market 
share and the temporary loss of supply will not have a long-
term financial effect on your business.
“In a flat veterinary market our ‘new’ 
Animalcare business achieved record 
sales, margins and profits during this 
financial year.” www.animalcaregroup.co.uk
Stock code: ANCR
Our Business
20660-04 03/10/2011 Proof 6
03
Dividend 
With the increase in cash and the underlying cash flow of 
your business, the Company paid its maiden interim dividend 
of 1.0 pence per share on 6 June 2011. With this in mind 
your Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.0 pence 
per share. This total dividend for the year of 4.0p 
(2010 — 3.0p) represents an annual increase of 33 per cent 
and is covered 2.9 times by earnings. The dividend is subject 
to shareholders’ approval at our Annual General Meeting to 
be held 28 October 2011 and is proposed to be paid on 
7 November 2011 to shareholders on the register on 
14 October 2011.
The Board
During the financial year Peter Warner joined the Board 
as Chief Financial Officer. Dr Iain Menneer, the Director of 
Marketing of Animalcare Limited, also joined the Board 
on 1 July 2011. I welcome them both as they will help to 
contribute to the growth of your business enormously. During 
the course of the year Geoff Rhodes, one of the original 
founders of the Ritchey business, resigned from his role as 
non-executive director. I wish to record the appreciation 
of the Board and my own personal thanks to Geoff for his 
service to the company over many years. It is intended that 
a new non-executive director with experience in life sciences 
businesses will join your Board this calendar year. On 
behalf of your Board I would like to thank all the employees, 
customers and suppliers that have helped make the financial 
year such a success.
Prospects
During the past financial year and now in the current 
one, there has been little or no growth in the veterinary 
medicines market in the UK. However, with the launch of 
several new veterinary drugs in the first quarter building 
on those introduced during the last financial year, and with 
the reintroduction of Buprecare, your Board believes that 
we will continue to grow the business markedly faster than 
the market overall and increase our market share. Trading 
in the year to date has started in line with your Board’s 
expectations.
James Lambert
Chairman
