 Annual Report 2011
04
20660-04 03/10/2011 Proof 6
Chief Executive’s Review
Introduction 
The past year has seen significant change in the structure 
of the Animalcare Group. After a careful strategic review we 
divested the Ritchey, Fearing and Travik businesses that 
comprised the old Livestock Division. As previously reported, 
the underlying reason for the sale of these businesses was 
the clear recognition that the time and resource required to 
revitalise the Livestock Division in a market sector that was 
showing few signs of sustainable, profitable growth could 
be better focussed and used in our rapidly growing and 
profitable Companion Animal Division. 
Our focus now is fully on the Companion Animal Division 
with its strategy of growth through the introduction of 
branded generic versions of selected veterinary medicines 
in key markets in Europe. This strategy is supported by 
the distribution in the UK of other professional goods and 
services to veterinary professionals where we have or can 
build a sustainable complementary product offering. The 
Companion Animal Identification and Infusion Accessories 
ranges are good examples of this approach.
Market Overview
The National Office of Animal Health, NOAH, the trade 
association which represents approximately 90 per cent of 
the distributors of veterinary medicines in the UK, in its latest 
published figures for the year ended March 2011 announced 
that the ex manufacturer sales, net of all discounts of 
all veterinary medicines, were flat at £467.2 million 
(2010 — £469.0 million) and 2.1 per cent up on 
2009 (£452.0 million). In comparison, sales of Animalcare 
veterinary medicines in the UK in the financial year grew by 
7.6 per cent. Sales of our established range of veterinary 
medicines in the UK grew by 5.6 per cent whilst UK sales of 
more recently launched generic veterinary medicines grew by 
22.7 per cent. This result is all the more pleasing in the light 
of the supply problems we had throughout the year with one 
of our key brands Buprecare. These supply problems 
ensured that we could not achieve the growth targets we set 
for the Buprecare brand in the UK but we endured a slight 
reduction in sales revenue of 2.1 per cent. A programme is in 
place to introduce an alternative supplier of Buprecare 
ampoule during the second half of the financial year.
Sales via our distribution network in Europe were 
4.0 per cent lower than the previous financial year. Although 
we experienced strong sales in some markets, notably 
Germany, this was offset by the loss of our distributor in 
Belgium and a particularly weak market in Spain. We are in 
discussions with an alternative distributor for our products in 
Belgium and will give our other European markets additional 
focus in the coming year.
“Sales of our established range of 
veterinary medicines in the UK grew by 
5.6% whilst UK sales of more recently 
launched generic veterinary medicines 
grew by 22.7%.” www.animalcaregroup.co.uk
Stock code: ANCR
Our Business
05
20660-04 03/10/2011 Proof 6
Sales in the Companion Animal Identification products group 
were strong despite the market experiencing increased 
competitive pressure on prices. The amalgamated sales of 
all other product groups were ahead of expectations and 
overall market growth as our continued penetration with new 
veterinary medicines presents the opportunity to sell other 
parts of our range.
During the course of the year we continued to develop the 
sales of Enrocare, a later generation fluoroquinalone antibiotic, 
and Phenoleptil, a treatment for epilepsy in dogs, which 
were launched at the end of the final quarter of the previous 
financial year. We launched Florgane, a patented formulation 
of a well established cattle antibiotic; Anivac, a vaccine against 
viral haemorrhagic disease (“VHD”) in rabbits; and Sedastart 
and Sedastop, a sedative and reversing agent used in cats 
and dogs. Whilst the sales of the two large animal products, 
Enrocare and Florgane, have been slow to take off additional 
product introductions in the autumn will give renewed impetus 
to these products. In contrast the sales of Anivac in particular 
but also Sedastart and Sedastop have been very good, 
comfortably surpassing the early sales targets set for them. 
We believe this momentum will be sustained.
Overall Animalcare Group grew revenue from continuing 
operations 5.4 per cent in the year to £11.8 million 
(2010 — £11.2 million), ahead of market rates. The 
improvement in mix of products in the range continued, 
and despite the pressure on selling prices seen in some 
product groups, overall gross profit grew by 7.3 per cent 
to £6.4 million (2010 — £6.0 million). Although we again 
strengthened the UK sales team during the course of the 
year, cost savings as a result of the divestitures and good 
overall cost control saw the administrative expenses 
for continuing operations decline to £3.2 million 
(2010— £3.5 million). Underlying operating profit for continuing 
operations once more saw very good growth in the year of 
17.6 per cent to £3.1 million (2010 — £2.6 million).
Future Developments 
We anticipate that the market for companion animal 
veterinary products in UK and in our target European 
markets will remain difficult in the coming year. We are 
however confident that through the efficient execution of our 
strategy of the registration, marketing and sale of selected 
veterinary generic medicines we will continue to deliver rates 
of growth significantly better than the market.
It was our intention to launch four new generic veterinary 
medicines during the course of the year and this was 
achieved through the launch of Anivac VHD, Florgane, 
Sedastart and Sedastop. As the new veterinary generics 
launched in the previous years approach the mature market 
share targets we set for them in the UK, we will continue 
to develop the recently launched products. At the same 
time we already have finished packed goods on hand for 
two new products that we will launch to the market in the 
first half of October 2011 along with a third complementary 
product. These will be supplemented by a very important 
addition to our range that is finishing its regulatory passage in 
September 2011. It will be launched in the UK and with our 
European partners in the coming months. Our knowledge 
of our existing new product development pipeline and that 
of our European development partners is such that, for the 
foreseeable future, we can be confident that we can continue 
to bring our target of four new products to the market each 
year. At the same time the focus and concentration that the 
evolved business structure brings will allow us to improve 
the quality and profitability of our future development pipeline 
through the introduction into the veterinary medicines we 
develop protected technology and innovation. We are already 
working in some novel areas of formulation development that 
have significant commercial promise.
We have already reorganised the structure of our UK sales 
force and we will continue to develop its capabilities. We 
are in the process of recruiting to strengthen other areas 
of the business and these, along with the addition of Iain 
Menneer to the Main Board as Director of Marketing and our 
anticipated move to new premises during the course of the 
year, will see us well placed to perform well in what may be a 
difficult year. Importantly it will lay the foundations of the next 
steps in the development of Animalcare.
Stephen Wildridge
Chief Executive Officer
