 06
Animalcare Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.animalcaregroup.co.uk
Stock code: ANCR
Chief Executive’s Review
Introduction
The Animalcare Group is now fully focused on 
serving the professional veterinary industry through 
its expanding Licensed Veterinary Medicines portfolio 
and highly proﬁtable Companion Animal Identiﬁcation 
range. At a time when temporary supply difﬁculties 
with one key product strongly affected the 
business, our proven strategy of growth through the 
introduction of generic licensed veterinary medicines 
has meant that our performance in this key segment 
has been signiﬁcantly better than the overall market 
(see below).
Our pipeline for new products remained productive 
with our target of four new licensed generic 
veterinary medicines launched in the year being 
surpassed with the introduction of ﬁve new 
products. The remainder of our development 
programme continued on track with other products 
in development meeting their milestones and other 
target products being brought forward into the 
pipeline.
It is clear, however, that the competition in licensed 
generic veterinary medicines will accelerate and 
intensify over the short-term and although we remain 
very well placed to continue to compete and grow 
we have been adapting our strategy to deliver even 
more durable success in the future. Our efforts in 
this regard, referred to as Project Sustain, focus 
on accelerating our development activities beyond 
differentiated generics initially in enhanced generics. 
The work we have been doing during 2011-12 on 
Project Sustain is designed to provide the sustained, 
protected growth of the Animalcare Group. Project 
Sustain will become a more evident and important 
part of the business from here on in.
Business Overview
The Animalcare business was strongly affected by 
the abrupt loss for the whole year of one of our 
key products, Buprecare ampoules. At the same 
time rationalisation of lower margin products and 
a downturn in sales within our Companion Animal 
Identiﬁcation products negatively affected the 
business. Overall revenues were down £0.9m 
(8.2 per cent) and gross proﬁt was down £0.5m 
(8.3 per cent) on last year. Although it will take a little 
longer than we had initially hoped to reintroduce 
Buprecare ampoules we are now signiﬁcantly 
along the way to achieving this in the current 
ﬁnancial year. We have made signiﬁcant progress in 
strengthening our Companion Animal Identiﬁcation 
segment through cost of goods and cost to serve 
reductions and the implementation of improved data 
handling capabilities which lead to increased selling 
opportunities.
It is very encouraging that in a period when the 
overall economic climate has been troubled the 
resilience of the market for licensed veterinary 
medicines in key markets has been notable and 
our growth in the segment has been strong. In the 
UK, which remains the Animalcare Group’s largest 
market (92.2 per cent of revenue and 91.9 per cent 
of GP), excluding Buprecare ampoules, the growth 
in revenue from our Licensed Veterinary Medicines 
was 16.8 per cent. Even when Buprecare ampoules 
are included growth was still 3.3 per cent year on 
year.
2011 2012 % change
UK market* £272.6m £269.1m -1.3%
Animalcare
†
£5.1m £5.9m +16.8%
*  NOAH website — NOAH members 12 months to March 2012 
net of all discounts.
†
  Animalcare results — ﬁnancial years 2011 and 2012 excluding 
Buprecare ampoules.
“Animalcare Group is well placed to deliver a strong 
performance in the year moving back to the growth 
levels recently experienced.” Our Governance Our Financials Our Business
07
Animalcare Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Revenue from our sales outside the UK were 
1.3 per cent lower than the previous ﬁnancial year, 
affected by the loss of Buprecare ampoules and the 
continued poor market conditions in Spain. Gross 
proﬁt was, however, 29.5 per cent higher as a result 
of increased sales in higher value markets.
It is our target to launch four new licensed generic 
veterinary medicines in course of each ﬁnancial year, 
a rate which is at the forefront for the market. During 
the course of ﬁnancial year 2011–12 we launched a 
total of ﬁve new licensed veterinary medicines:
 Torphosol, a sedative and short-term analgesic 
for use in horses
 Detonervin, a deep sedative and mild analgesic 
for use in horses
 Emdocam, an anti-inﬂammatory for use in 
horses, cattle and pigs
 Tilmodil, an antibacterial for use in cattle and 
sheep
 Buprecare MDV, a multidose vial version of our 
successful severe pain analgesic for cats and 
dogs
In addition, our currently marketed range of 
companion animal licensed generic medicines 
continued to perform well.
Sales revenue from the Companion Animal 
Identiﬁcation products group was £0.9 million 
(27.7 per cent) below last year principally due to the 
one-off effect of ending the low margin distribution 
of Sureﬂap cat ﬂaps (-£0.51m) and the reduced 
sales of Identichip our pet identiﬁcation microchips 
(-£0.25m). Gross proﬁt in the segment was 
£0.38 million (18.8 per cent) lower than last year. 08
Animalcare Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.animalcaregroup.co.uk
Stock code: ANCR
During the course of the year we took the important 
step of reorganising the senior management team 
to meet the needs of the business now and for the 
future. Chris Brewster joined the Group as Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer and Dr Iain Menneer took over the 
role of Managing Director for Animalcare Ltd with the 
primary responsibility of managing the UK business 
to achieve its short-term operational targets. This 
concentration of the UK business with Iain has 
allowed other members of the senior management 
team to concentrate on another three key areas of 
the business:
 increased penetration of our current products in 
existing markets
 controlled expansion of the geographic reach of 
the business
 driving the development programme, notably 
project Sustain.
Future Developments
In the short-term, licensed generic medicines for 
companion animals in our main target markets 
(UK, France and Germany) will provide the engine 
for growth of the Animalcare Group. This growth 
will be supplemented by better penetration of our 
existing products in markets outside the UK where 
we currently operate. We will improve sales through 
the selective geographic expansion of the markets 
we address.
In early September we launched Vitofyllin in the 
UK and Ireland in a market worth approximately 
£1.5 million per annum. It is a product which ﬁts 
well into our growing portfolio of products to treat 
chronic diseases and conditions of old age, in 
this case a central nervous system stimulant for 
older dogs. Our next two products are in the ﬁnal 
stages of development and have almost completed 
regulatory review. We expect to be able to launch 
both products in the UK in Q3 of the ﬁnancial year. 
A fourth product has just entered regulatory review 
and should be available for launch in Q4 of the 
ﬁnancial year. We are therefore conﬁdent of once 
more achieving our target of the launch of four new 
licensed generic veterinary medicines in ﬁnancial 
year 2012–13.
We have moved two projects to the next phase in 
development and remain conﬁdent that through 
our own product development pipeline and that 
of our development partners this rate of product 
innovation and introduction can be maintained for 
the foreseeable future.
Outlook
In my CEO’s statement last year I commented 
that 2011–12 “may be a difﬁcult year”. It was. 
Although challenging, the difﬁculties were, however, 
uncomplicated market issues which have been 
recognised and addressed or are well in the course 
of resolution. 2012–13 will not be without its 
challenges but the Animalcare Group is well placed 
to deliver a strong performance in the year, in line 
with expectations moving back to the growth levels 
recently experienced. Current trading is in line with 
expectations and comfortably above last year.
The Group has moved away from its previous 
position as an undifferentiated supplier of low 
value animal welfare products into a predominantly 
veterinary pharmaceutical based business. That 
trend must continue and intensify. I believe that 
with the support it needs in terms of product 
development expenditure and leadership evolution 
that we are well positioned to move to the next level 
and provide even higher levels of sustained,  
IP protected growth in the future.
Stephen Wildridge
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Chief Executive’s Review continued
