 04
Animalcare Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.animalcaregroup.co.uk
Stock code: ANCR
Chairman’s Statement
Introduction
This has been a difﬁcult year for Animalcare but I 
believe the measures the Board has taken will see it 
beginning to grow again during the current ﬁnancial 
year. Animalcare is currently made up of three 
product groups, Licensed Veterinary Medicines, 
Companion Animal Identiﬁcation and Animal Welfare 
products that are all sold mainly through veterinary 
practices. Whilst the Licensed Veterinary Medicines 
have continued to grow, albeit slower than 
anticipated, there has been a marked reduction in 
sales of both Identichip and Animal Welfare products 
during the year. Your Board is refocusing the 
management on these two areas, plus the continued 
development of new licensed veterinary products 
and this should return your Company to growth 
during the current year.
Financial trading
Sales during the ﬁnancial year fell by 8.2 per cent 
from £11.8 million to £10.9 million. This resulted 
in a reduction in underlying proﬁt before tax from 
£2.3 million to £1.8 million and fully diluted 
earnings per share from continuing operations fell 
18 per cent from 11.2p to 9.2p. However, your 
Company continues to be strongly cash generative 
and the year-end cash position has grown from 
£1.18 million to £2.31 million which helps improve 
the strength of our balance sheet. The reduction of 
sales was mainly caused by the delay to relaunch 
a replacement “single dose Buprecare ampoule” 
in the veterinary medicine market, a 28 per cent 
fall in sales in our Companion Animal Identiﬁcation 
business, and a 9 per cent reduction in sales in 
Animal Welfare products. To reverse this trend your 
Board promoted Dr Iain Menneer from Marketing 
Director to Managing Director Animalcare Ltd in 
charge of all sales and marketing in the UK. This 
allows Stephen Wildridge, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, to 
concentrate on increasing and delivering our product 
development pipeline and sales of our Licensed 
Veterinary Medicines through our European partners.
Dividend
With the increase in cash and the strong underlying 
cash ﬂow of your business the Company increased 
the interim dividend from 1.0 pence per share to 
1.5 pence per share which was paid on 4
th
 May 
2012. With this in mind the Board proposes to 
maintain the ﬁnal dividend at 3 pence per share. 
This gives a total dividend for the year of 4.5 pence 
per share, an increase of 12.5 per cent over the 
previous ﬁnancial year and is covered 2.1 times 
by earnings. The dividend, which is subject to 
shareholders’ approval at our Annual General 
Meeting, to be held on 6
th
 November 2012, will be 
paid on 16
th
 November 2012 to the shareholders on 
the register on 19
th
 October 2012.
“This has been a difﬁcult year for Animalcare but I believe 
the measures the Board has taken will see it beginning to 
grow again during the current ﬁnancial year.”
Buprecare Multi Dose 
Vial launched during 
the financial year Our Governance Our Financials Our Business
05
Animalcare Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The Board
Your Board has been considerably strengthened 
during the year with the appointment to the Board of 
Dr Iain Menneer, Managing Director of Animalcare Ltd 
and also Ray Harding as a Non-Executive Director. 
Until 2010 Ray was an owner and Managing Director 
of Cyton Bioscience Ltd, a leading company in 
multi-service consultancy to both the animal health 
and pharmaceutical industries, and he remains as a 
part-time consultant to it. Chris Brewster also joined 
the Board towards the end of the ﬁnancial year as 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and Company Secretary. 
He gained considerable commercial experience as 
Group Accounting Manager at Findus Group. Prior to 
this Chris was a senior manager in the KPMG audit 
department in the Leeds ofﬁce. I would like to thank, 
on behalf of the Board, all our customers, suppliers 
and colleagues who have helped support and develop 
Animalcare during the year.
Prospects
The Board believes with the focus on growing our 
Companion Animal Identiﬁcation business, the 
resumption of supply of Buprecare ampoules, and 
the planned launch of four new licensed veterinary 
products during the ﬁnancial year Animalcare should 
return to growth. 
Your Board is encouraged by current trading for the 
beginning of the ﬁnancial year.
James Lambert
Chairman
