 Chairman’s Statement
James Lambert Chairman
Introduction
Animalcare is made up of three product groups: Licensed 
Veterinary Medicines, Companion Animal Identification 
and Animal Welfare products that are sold mainly through 
veterinary practices. I am pleased to announce that all three 
product areas have continued to show solid performance 
during the 2014 financial year. The Licensed Veterinary 
Medicines group, which is the main focus of our investment, 
has grown strongly in the current year by 9.5%.
Financial Trading
Group revenues increased by 6.3% from £12.1m to a 
record £12.9m, driven by increasing our market share in the 
Licensed Veterinary Medicines market and continuing to 
grow in the animal identification market. This performance 
has resulted in pre tax profits increasing by 14.7% from 
£2.3m to £2.7m and basic earnings per share increased 
from 9.1 pence per share to 10.3 pence per share, or 
13.2%. Year end cash increased by £0.1m to £3.8m, with 
the decision taken during the year to increase stock levels of 
certain licensed veterinary medicines with long lead times.
“I am pleased to announce that all three 
product areas have continued to show 
solid performance during the 2014 
financial year.”
People
Under Chief Executive Iain Menneer’s leadership, we 
invested in increasing the quality and strength of the 
senior management team to position your Company for 
much increased product development in future years. 
I am therefore delighted that we have a new Head of 
Sales, Director of Business Development and several new 
colleagues across the business to support their work. This 
as we announced with our interim results will allow a step 
change in our ability to bring an increased number of new 
and important generic veterinary medicines to market from 
2016-2017 onwards. This should make a real difference to 
Animalcare’s future prospects.
Dividend
Your Board proposes, subject to shareholder approval, an 
increased final dividend of 4.0 pence per share (2013: 3.8 
pence). With 1.5 pence per share being paid as the interim 
dividend, this brings the total dividend for 2014 to 5.5 pence 
per share, representing growth over the prior year of 4%, in 
line with our underlying earnings.
Prospects
Your Board, I believe, has totally repositioned Animalcare 
over the past year or so to allow the use of the Company’s 
cash to rapidly grow the business organically from 2016 
onwards. We are working to develop a high quality, 
experienced senior management team to deliver this growth 
plan. With the new share incentive scheme that has been 
introduced during the year for both executive directors, 
the interests of shareholders and colleagues are aligned 
to deliver an exciting and profitable growth phase for your 
business.
James Lambert 
Chairman
Animalcare Group plc Annual Report 2014
8
www.animalcaregroup.co.uk
Animalcare Annual Report 2014 - Proof 3.indd   8 10/27/2014   12:11:04 PM
