 Chief Executive’s Review
Iain Menneer Chief Executive Officer
Introduction
Animalcare has again delivered record sales, up 6.3% to 
£12.9m, continuing its track record of top line growth.
This result has been achieved against a backdrop of a 
veterinary market that is very slowly responding to the 
strengthening economy.
Activities in the period can be split into the following three 
main areas: revenue delivery, product development pipeline 
and business infrastructure. I am very pleased with the 
progress we have made in all these areas.
Animalcare has changed significantly in the last decade 
and achieved much; as we move into the next stage of the 
journey the business must change further for it to achieve 
even more.
The veterinary market is evolving and consolidating; it 
is imperative therefore that Animalcare develops a new 
approach too, whilst not losing sight of its core strengths that 
set it apart from its competitors.
Our objective is to deliver further growth from the current 
core business and to accelerate that growth with the 
introduction of enhanced generic veterinary medicines. In 
response to the number of opportunities available, we have 
developed a more structured approach for managing and 
monitoring progress in our development pipeline.
Market Review
Whilst surveys have shown consumers are generally feeling 
better off now than a year ago, this nascent confidence has 
been slow to flow through to veterinary practices. Results 
from a survey carried out annually show that 37% of UK 
veterinary practices believe that “things are still the same”, 
with 35% saying things had improved and 29% that they had 
got worse. (CM Research July 2014)
In contrast, according to the latest available data, the pet 
medicines market reportedly grew by 10.7% for the year 
ending December 2013 (National Office of Animal Health 
www.noah.co.uk).
The veterinary industry has seen further consolidation during 
the period under review on two fronts: veterinary practices 
and pharmaceutical manufacturers and suppliers.
Listed and private equity backed consolidators have 
continued to swell their estates with double digit percentage 
acquisition growth. These key accounts offer an opportunity 
for Animalcare to negotiate significant revenues and 
buy-in from the centre; though of course this comes at a 
cost. Buying groups have also grown during the period, 
however as this model matures this growth has been 
mainly in member numbers and inter-group switching rather 
than number of buying groups. The crowded space has 
prompted an increasing number of buying groups to seek to 
differentiate themselves through premium service offerings 
which gives Animalcare an opportunity to engage more.
There has been a 9% growth in the number of independent 
small animal practices in the UK over the last three years, 
with a 25% increase in the number of corporate and charity 
practices. The number of practices joining a buying group 
has grown by 74% over the same period (Veterinary Record, 
January 2014).
The European animal health (AH) sector has experienced 
unprecedented merger and acquisition activity during the 
past 12 months, most notably with the sale of Novartis AH to 
Elanco (Ely Lilly) for $5.4bn. Within the UK, one competitor, 
Alstoe AH, was purchased by the French company 
Sogeval, only for the latter to be purchased itself by Ceva 
Santé Animale (Fr). There are unlikely to be many product 
acquisition possibilities from this activity but the industry 
consolidation and distraction does give Animalcare other 
opportunities in the marketplace as a result.
9
Stock Code: ANCR
Our Financials Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
Our Performance / Chairman’s Statement / Chief Executive’s Review
Animalcare Annual Report 2014 - Proof 3.indd   9 10/27/2014   12:11:04 PM Business Review
Licensed Veterinary Medicines
Our Licensed Veterinary Medicines product group grew 
by 9.5% to £7.9m and gross profit by 6.2% to £4.4m 
representing a strong result against the prior period and in 
line with the companion animal pharmaceutical market.
The proportion of total Group revenue from veterinary 
pharmaceuticals has grown again in the year, up almost 2%, 
to 61.2%. Sales of products from our development pipeline 
grew in the period and importantly the group of older, lower 
margin legacy medicines has experienced strong growth too.
The change in sales mix as a result of the strength of our 
lower gross margin older products has had a modest effect 
on the gross profit of the product group compared to the 
prior period. The consolidation in our customer base has 
also meant that margins are under some pressure from the 
increased buying power.
Our strategy of progress through new products has 
continued with three launches in the period.
The first, early in the period, was an extension to the range 
of Phenoleptil tablets, the epileptic treatment for dogs. The 
addition of 25mg and 100mg tablet strengths to the existing 
range launched previously and gives veterinary surgeons 
a range of options to fine tune the dosing of patients. As 
expected, Phenoleptil sales have been increasing slowly 
as patients must be transferred very carefully from other 
therapies.
“In response to the number of opportunities 
available, we have developed a more 
structured approach for managing and 
monitoring progress in our development 
pipeline.”
In January, Animalcare launched Thiafeline, a treatment 
for hyperthyroidism in cats, a chronic disease affecting 
an estimated 12% of the UK cat population. Thiafeline is 
the first generic to be launched in this therapy area in the 
UK. Sales are growing steadily and we believe there is 
good potential for the product as hyperthyroidism is under-
diagnosed, which gives Animalcare the opportunity to 
penetrate the existing market and also grow the total market 
through education and technical support.
The third launch of the year was Marbocare tablets, the 
associated in-house development of Marbocare injection 
launched last period. Marbocare contains an antibiotic for 
the treatment of infections in dogs and cats. Restrictions on 
the use of antibiotics in production animals are having an 
impact on their use in companion animals too. Several other 
generic products were also launched in the year having an 
impact on the anticipated growth of Marbocare.
Companion Animal Identification
Cat Health Check
Our Companion Animal Identification group sales and 
marketing strategy has started to deliver results with revenue 
growth of 7.8% to £2.4m, and gross profit up by 6.0% to 
£1.7m, an even more pleasing result against the backdrop 
of uncertainty over new legislation and the Dogs Trust free 
microchipping campaign through veterinary practices.
Microchip sales grew by 8.2% whilst our database of 
pet owners, Anibase, has now grown to 4.0 million. The 
revenues derived from services sold to these owners also 
grew in line with microchip sales revenues, at 7.1%.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Animalcare Group plc Annual Report 2014
10
www.animalcaregroup.co.uk
Animalcare Annual Report 2014 - Proof 3.indd   10 10/27/2014   12:11:05 PM In February 2013, the English Parliament announced that it 
would be compulsory for all dogs in England to be implanted 
with a microchip and have up-to-date owner contact details 
on a database from April 2016 onwards. This was soon 
followed by the Welsh Assembly announcing the same 
legislation would be introduced in March 2015 for dogs in 
Wales. It is already compulsory in Northern Ireland and the 
Scottish Parliament is reviewing the situation.
At the same time as the English Parliament’s announcement 
the Dogs Trust announced it would fund a million free 
microchips in a year-long campaign leading up to April 2016.
As a result of this activity the microchip market has seen 
some price pressure in the short-term.
The lack of clarity and disruption in the market around both 
announcements has now settled and we better understand 
how both will be implemented, however uncertainty 
remains as to what extent owners and veterinary practices 
will engage in either the legislation or free microchipping 
campaign respectively.
Animal Welfare Products
We further rationalised some of our lower margin, 
commoditised lines in the Animal Welfare Products group 
resulting in a fall in revenue of 3.6% to £2.6m but gross 
profit increasing by 0.5% to £1.1m. Approximately half of 
the revenue from this group is generated from our growing 
infusions accessories range which complements our 
intravenous fluids portfolio.
 Operational Overview
As one of the three focus areas over the past twelve months, 
a lot of work has gone into building a strong foundation to 
underpin our investment phase over the next three to five 
years.
These infrastructure improvements outlined below have all 
been implemented in a planned and measured way, keeping 
control of our cost base whilst not restricting our growth.
People
Sales
Our sales team is a rare asset in the animal health sector 
and vital for our success. Our new Head of Sales, Samantha 
Williamson, joined us from a senior sales role in Novartis 
human health and has had an immediate impact on the 
shape and culture of the team. The UK sales team has 
been split into two geographic territories with stronger 
management support and coaching. In addition, Animalcare 
has embarked on a long-held plan and is introducing a 
telesales team. The breadth of products across all three 
product groups means we need to identify new channels 
to better address our market. The new structure has 
allowed our Head of Sales to invigorate our approach to 
key accounts, the corporate, charity and buying groups 
mentioned earlier. All three elements of our rejuvenated 
sales operations will take time to show full effect, however 
the early signs in all areas are promising.
Our Performance / Chief Executive’s Review
Vitofyllin
11
Stock Code: ANCR
Our Financials Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
Animalcare Annual Report 2014 - Proof 3.indd   11 10/27/2014   12:11:06 PM Chief Executive’s Review continued
Technical and Business Development
Karolyn Tapper, Director of Business Development, was 
appointed at the start of August 2013, allowing for a 
thorough hand over of projects and responsibilities from 
Stephen Wildridge, Animalcare’s previous Director of 
Strategy and Business Development who left the Company 
in October 2013. Karolyn joined Animalcare from Catalent, 
the global pharmaceutical manufacturer, with a wealth 
of formulation, project management and development 
experience. At the same time, Torben Orskov was promoted 
to Director of Technical and Regulatory Affairs. Torben was a 
practising large and small animal veterinary surgeon for ten 
years before joining Animalcare in 2007. It became clear that 
the number of opportunities available to Animalcare meant 
more resource was required in our Technical and Business 
Development departments. In the second half of the period 
both departments were enlarged. These appointments have 
not only increased the capacity of both teams but this has 
in turn allowed both senior managers more time to drive our 
product development strategy.
Moreover, the addition of more veterinary qualified staff 
across technical, marketing and sales functions means our 
expertise and service to our customers will improve further 
still.
General
Animalcare recognises the dedication and calibre of its 
employees. The growth in the business has opened up 
internal promotions and career progression opportunities; 
hard earned expertise being retained, complemented by the 
freshness of a ‘new’ career.
Underpinning our growing business, our suite of personnel 
systems and policies has been brought up-to-date to further 
reinforce commitment to our valued team.
IT
We have carried out upgrades to our computing 
infrastructure during the period to both the core business 
and the microchip database, Anibase. Virtualised servers, 
which provide smooth and uninterrupted operation, have 
drastically reduced the risk of downtime.
In the second half of the period we started the roll out of 
a new sales Customer Relationship Management (CRM) 
software system. This is now implemented and beginning to 
add value to many areas of the business.
Inventories
During the period Animalcare increased its inventory levels 
of certain key products. The increase applied particularly to 
two product lines, microchips and Buprecare. In the case of 
the former, this was in readiness for an anticipated surge in 
demand following the announcement of planned compulsory 
microchipping by the English Parliament and Welsh 
Assembly. Now that we understand more of the dynamics 
of this legislation and the activities of the Dogs Trust we will 
manage stock levels accordingly. Buprecare ampoules were 
reintroduced into the market in January 2013 and we have 
built stock of this key product line to ensure continuity of 
supply.
We will continue to balance having sufficient stocks to meet 
demand and contingency to protect us from unexpected 
eventualities in our supply chain, whilst at the same time, 
keeping our working capital at an acceptable level. The 
nature of a highly regulated industry with prescribed batch 
sizes, and prohibitively expensive regulatory costs to 
maintain a second supplier, means that this process has to 
be managed carefully.
Vetasept in use
Animalcare Group plc Annual Report 2014
12
www.animalcaregroup.co.uk
Animalcare Annual Report 2014 - Proof 3.indd   12 10/27/2014   12:11:07 PM Future Developments
Vet Examines Dog
Animalcare will be launching two new veterinary medicines 
in the second half of the new financial year on distribution 
from one of our key European partners. These complement 
existing products within the range very well. A third 
distribution product may be launched towards the end of the 
second half of the current financial year dependent on exact 
timing of regulatory packaging approvals.
Development of new non-pharmaceutical products and 
services is still commercially attractive where this can build 
on our core strengths and improve profitability; where this 
is not possible we will continue to review and potentially 
remove more products from our Animal Welfare Products 
range.
Outlook
In the short-term there is still great potential in our existing 
product range and imminent launches to keep our 
momentum and grow further. Moreover, there is capacity 
for Animalcare to grow sales through building better 
relationships with the key account market.
The strength of our business will continue to generate the 
necessary cash to meet our development and dividend 
targets, particularly through our investment phase.
I am confident that we can keep our pipeline well stocked 
with new product candidates into the medium-term.
I have outlined above the dynamics in the European 
animal health space, leading to a more crowded medicines 
market and pressure on margins from veterinary channel 
consolidation. Our strategy to complement (un)differentiated 
generic medicine launches with enhanced generic product 
development will enable us to grow market share and 
protect margin.
Additions we have made to our team and improved structure 
to our development process will ensure we are on course to 
meet our objectives.
Iain Menneer 
Chief Executive Officer
13
Stock Code: ANCR
Our Financials Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
Our Performance / Chief Executive’s Review
Animalcare Annual Report 2014 - Proof 3.indd   13 10/27/2014   12:11:07 PM
