 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s statement
Business review
Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 13
Execution
Over the past year, we delivered a strong set of ﬁnancial results
and made another acquisition to further our strategic aims.
We have successfully executed ahead of our initial expectations.
Since the year end, the management team has been further
strengthened with the appointment of Paul Rodgers as Worldwide
Human Resources Director in May 2008 and Marc Andrews as
Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing in June 2008.
Both individuals are highly experienced in the software industry.
The sales team has been further strengthened and we will
continue to invest to drive the business forward. It has been
particularly encouraging to see the improved performance in
our North American operation as well as continued excellent
performances from our Europe and Rest of World operations.
We continue to reﬁne our marketing and delivery capabilities
with a ﬁrm focus on developing senior level contacts within our
target customers. With signiﬁcant momentum building around
the “modernisation message” it has been encouraging to see
the Company establish itself as a thought leader in this area.
While organic revenue growth is our primary focus, our strategy
review, carried out in the six months to October 2006,
highlighted the potential for further proﬁtable revenue growth
through acquisitions. On 4 May 2007, we acquired Acucorp
for $40.9 million. Acucorp provides technology that is highly
complementary to Micro Focus’ core business in the COBOL
Development Tool space as well as providing the opportunity for
Micro Focus to expand its reach into the small and medium-sized
enterprise (“SME”) markets.
On 18 June 2008 we acquired NetManage, a software provider
of technologies to transform core applications into new
web-based business solutions. Combining the businesses of
Micro Focus and NetManage will further strengthen Micro Focus’
For over 30 years, Micro Focus has inﬂuenced and innovated
in the Enterprise Applications market and we have built up
a leading position in the Application Modernisation market.
Major corporations are increasingly becoming aware that it is
possible to obtain all of the required business beneﬁts through
modernising existing applications, as opposed to implementing
the high risk and costly alternative of rewriting these applications
or replacing them with a packaged solution with little additional
business beneﬁt.
Micro Focus technologies and solutions are a driving force
behind the day-to-day business success of many of the largest
companies in the world, helping these organisations achieve
competitive differentiation through modern, efﬁcient and low
cost platforms. This proposition is particularly relevant against
the backdrop of the uncertain economic outlook. 14 Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008
Business review
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s statement
Continued future revenue growth is largely dependent on driving
licence sales. Our strategy review, undertaken in the six months
to October 2006, identiﬁed the major growth opportunity
around larger value licence fee transactions into the Global 2000
(“G2000”) companies. It was encouraging that we again signed
a number of these transactions in the year, including Boeing,
Wal-Mart and RBS, carrying on from our success last year.
Our solutions reduce cost, lower risk, and provide clear and
compelling returns on investment for our customers. Whilst we
recognise the current uncertain macro economic conditions, the
defensive characteristics of our business model, combined with
the relevance and compelling nature of our solutions, lead us to
view the current year with conﬁdence. Our ambition is to achieve
double digit organic growth, at constant currencies, over the
longer term whilst maintaining our EBITDA margin.
A robust and sustainable market exists to support our growth
strategy. Our key focus remains on organic growth although
we continue to review the potential for further acquisitions to
enhance the value of our business, as evidenced by the recent
acquisition of NetManage in June 2008 and Liant Software
Corporation in July 2008.
Stephen Kelly Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
position as a leading player in the growing Application
Modernisation market and provide the enlarged Group with
further opportunities for growth through a more comprehensive
and broader product offering. Due to the complementary nature
of the two businesses from a market, product and ﬁnancial
perspective, we are well placed to deliver value from this
acquisition and look forward to implementing the integration
of the NetManage business.
We continue to invest in expanding our solution set as well
as extending our partnerships with other technology companies,
system integrators and outsourcers to take advantage of the
considerable market opportunity open to us.
Summary and outlook
We are encouraged by the progress made over the past year
reﬂecting the strong fundamentals of the business.
Micro Focus beneﬁts from having a business model with a high
proportion of predictable and recurring revenue. Of licence
revenues, which made up 49.7% of Group revenues in the year,
the majority comes from high volume, low value transactions
which are supplemented by larger value transactions, the size
and volume of which we are seeing increase. Approximately one
third of licence revenues come from royalties from other software
companies, which provides additional predictability.
Maintenance revenues, which made up 45.6% of Group revenues
in the year, are secure and robust. Maintenance revenue growth
is driven by the retention of existing customers as well as the
addition of new maintenance revenue associated with the sale
of new licences. An encouraging performance in both of these
areas in the year provides high levels of revenue visibility going
forward. The smallest proportion of our revenue is derived from
our consultancy services and it is intended that this revenue will
remain a similar proportion of total revenue in the coming year. Business review
Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 15
Penetrating international markets
with a ground-breaking application
strategy
Tesco’s competitiveness in retail depends in no small part on its highly effective IT systems. This is
especially true for its innovative Continuous Replenishment (“CR”) system, which drives store
ordering. This highly sophisticated system resides on an IBM z/OS mainframe in the UK and Tesco
needed to make it available to the rest of its group.
A platform-independent common operating model (Retail)
Micro Focus Application Migration and Modernisation offering was
chosen to port the CR application to the IBM System p server running
the AIX operating system and integrate it with the existing Oracle Retail
solution. Elements of Tesco’s Common Operating Model are already in
place and beneﬁting some of its businesses. Micro Focus modernisation
expertise is not only helping Tesco maintain the momentum behind this
strategic IT project, but is also playing a key role in the development of
its presence in the United States.
Product solution
Micro Focus Application
Migration and Modernisation
Micro Focus Studio
Micro Focus Server
TESCO 16 Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008
Business review
Extracting more value from
legacy assets
CSC’s Financial Services Group wanted to create a new, economical package to help its financial
services customers run critical mainframe-based applications on a lower-cost environment, such
as a desktop or server. It was already providing Micro Focus Mainframe Express, Enterprise Edition,
to those customers using its VANTAGE-ONE
®
solutions who wanted to do their own development
work. To create the new package it supplemented this with Micro Focus Server to enable
deployment to new platforms.
The new solution enables thousands of programmes that would
normally run on a mainframe environment under CICS and JCL to run
in a lower-cost Windows server environment. The server-based solution
reduces deployment charges and increases runtime. Clients are
impressed to see an industrial strength application running so quickly
with the server-based solution. Micro Focus Mainframe Express enables
CSC to deliver more system capability to its clients. It also saves the
Company cost and improves its own productivity. It estimates overall
cost savings from improved productivity to be 40%.
Product solution
Micro Focus Mainframe
Express Edition
Micro Focus Server
A new solution at lower cost (Finance)
