 I am delighted to welcome shareholders to this, the first annual
report of Micro Focus International Plc. 
On 17 May 2005, the share capital of Micro Focus International
Limited (“Operating Company”) was acquired by Micro Focus
International Plc (“Company”) in a share-for-share exchange with
the previous shareholders of the Operating Company. On 17 May
2005, the ordinary shares of the Company were admitted to the
Official List and to the London Stock Exchange to be traded on 
its main market for listed securities. This annual report concentrates
on providing shareholders with consolidated information on the
Operating Company and its subsidiaries.
Whilst the Operating Company traces its origins back to 1976 
the current strategy has evolved since 2001, when the business
was acquired by Golden Gate Capital, a US-based private equity
fund. Since that time we have refocused the business on legacy
development and deployment, a strategy which has formed the
basis of our success over the past four years. We have increased
revenues from $79 million for the nine months ended April 2002,
to $110 million for the comparable nine months ended January
2005, and further to $151 million for the full year ended 
30 April 2005.
Our strategy
Our strategy is to help our customers leverage their legacy
assets. We do this by expanding the market for mainframe
migration, strengthening existing customer relationships,
extending leveraged sales channels, continuing to develop
innovative technology and by pursuing selected opportunities for
acquisition. This is covered in more detail in the Chief Executive
Officer’s review of operations on pages 7 to 11.
The IPO
The Company raised $122 million in the IPO, the net proceeds
being used to repay the full balance of the debt outstanding
under facilities with Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc. and DB Zwirn
Special Opportunities Fund (including early payment fees). 
This has left the Company with a strong balance sheet to 
pursue its strategy.
Our people
Our board comprises two executive and five non-executive directors.
Dr Anthony Hill, who has been with the Operating Company or
one of its antecedents since 1987, became Chief Executive Officer
and President of the Operating Group in August 2001. Richard Lloyd,
who has been with the Operating Company or one of its
antecedents since 1991, became Chief Financial Officer of the
Operating Group in August 2001. I was pleased to accept the role
of non-executive Chairman on 4 April 2005. Our other non-
executive directors are David Dominik and Prescott Ashe, who are
founders and Managing Directors of Golden Gate Capital, David
Maloney, who has extensive experience in finance at a number of
leading companies, and John Browett who was appointed as a non-
executive director on 1 July 2005 (biographies of the board members
are shown on page 15).
We are fortunate to have a highly skilled, experienced and loyal
family of employees, including a senior management team four
of whom have been with the Company for more than 20 years.
I thank my fellow directors, the members of the management
team and, indeed, all employees for their energy, commitment
and contribution during the past year, which has been a time 
of immense change and demanding deadlines.
The future
Our business model is continuing to prove its value. Over the past
year we have achieved greater penetration of our target markets
and, following the IPO and the repayment of loans, we are
financially well positioned to maintain profitable growth and 
to generate cash. I am confident that Micro Focus will continue 
to prosper and will deliver good value to all its stakeholders.
Kevin Loosemore Chairman
3 August 2005
4 Micro Focus International Plc Annual report 2005
Chairman’s statement
