 Chief Executive Officer’s business review
5
Initial thoughts from the Chief Executive Officer 
In the short time since joining Micro Focus, I have been
impressed by the quality of our employees and our technical
expertise as well as our very strong customer and partner base. 
While the full year results were disappointing and below
those of the previous year, the Company is financially strong
and has generated strong cash flow from operating activities.
The cash balance at 30 April 2006 stood at $56.1 million.
The Company has an enviable customer base with 50% 
of turnover being derived from secure and predictable
maintenance revenues. A significant proportion of licence fee
revenues are from our channel partners. During the year we
continued to successfully conduct direct sales business with
many of the worlds leading companies.
The primary focus of the new management team is to
continue to restore the business to achieve significant,
sustainable, profitable growth and to enhance shareholder
confidence over time.
The fundamentals of the business are strong – great
customers benefiting from strong returns on investment, 
high-quality products and committed and talented people. 
We have broadly arrested the decline and have the foundations
for a future of profitable growth. FY2007 will be a transition
year and driving the initial recovery of the licence business 
to deliver revenue growth will be a key focus.
In a short space of time, tough action has been taken in
regard to costs and we have made many changes to drive
alignment and operational excellence, as well as initiating 
a broader review of the market and opportunities for growth.
Markets
A view of our market is set out on pages 6 and 7.
Outlook 
Our business model dictates that revenue growth will be
largely dependent on achieving increased licence sales. 
While we anticipate that a proportion of these will be 
larger deals, this revenue stream is inherently lumpy. 
The smallest proportion of our revenues is derived from
consultancy and it is anticipated that these revenues will
remain a minor proportion of total revenues for the year
ahead. Given the lower licence fee sales in the year to April
2006, as compared to those achieved in the prior year, we
anticipate that maintenance revenues for the current year will
be about the same as those reported in the year to 30 April
2006 (assuming that the retention rate of existing customers
remains constant).
Returning to sustainable revenue growth is the key factor
that will determine the long term success of the Company.
Thus, management’s emphasis will be on licence fee sales 
to drive growth in the year to 30 April 2007. Whilst our
foundations are solid and we have made good progress 
in addressing the operational issues identified in the last
financial year, our revenue outlook remains cautious as 
we stabilise and focus the business.
Licence revenues in the second half of the year to 30 April
2006 were $32.8 million and our run rate currently reflects a
similar level for the first half of 2007. Our ability to return to
revenue growth will depend primarily on the development
and execution of larger licence deals in the pipeline as we
move through the year. We will provide a further update on
progress at the half year.
Expenses are expected to reduce following the restructuring,
the benefits of which we expect to flow through to operating
profits in FY2007. Interest income is expected to increase as 
a result of increasing the Company’s cash reserves.
Summary
The fundamentals of the business are strong, with committed
customers, leading products and our talented people. We have
taken tough actions quickly and we have broadly arrested the
decline. We are focused on building the platform for growth
and increasing shareholder value.
Stephen Kelly Chief Executive Officer
