 04 Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Chairman’s statement
The board continues to adopt a progressive dividend policy
reﬂecting the long-term earnings and cash ﬂow potential of
Micro Focus and I am pleased to announce a proposed ﬁnal
dividend of 9.4 cents per share, giving a full year dividend
of 13.0 cents per share. This represents a 30% increase when
compared to a full year dividend of 10.0 cents last year.
We ﬁnished the year with cash of $92.4 million, and generated
$96.2 million of cash from continuing operations during the year.
Our business model has low ongoing capital requirements and
delivers strong cash generation. During the year, $47.4 million
of cash was used to fund the acquisition and restructuring of
Acucorp. Since the year end we have announced the acquisition
of NetManage for $73.3 million. NetManage’s cash balance
immediately prior to closing was $27.9 million. In addition,
we announced on 11 July 2008 the acquisition of Liant Software
Corporation for $5 million.
The board would like to thank all of our employees for their
continued hard work and commitment throughout the year.
Our foundations are well established and we continue to build
for the future.
We remain focused on proﬁtable revenue growth and I am
conﬁdent in the Company’s ability to continue to deliver value
to all of its stakeholders. Micro Focus is well positioned for the
future and we look forward to the year ahead with conﬁdence.
Kevin Loosemore Chairman
Micro Focus has delivered another year of strong ﬁnancial results,
achieving signiﬁcant organic revenue growth whilst improving
our proﬁt margins. Our acquisition also delivered very positive
results. We successfully integrated Acucorp, Inc., a company
acquired in May 2007. Revenue and proﬁts from this acquisition
were both ahead of our initial expectations. On 18 June 2008,
we completed the acquisition of NetManage, Inc.
Our ambition is to maintain double digit organic revenue growth,
at constant currencies, over the long term. We will complement
our organic growth plan with compelling acquisitions that
provide a positive impact on shareholder value when the right
opportunities arise.
The performance achieved over the past year continues to reﬂect
well on the entire Micro Focus team and highlights the strong
fundamentals of the business. We have ﬁrst rate technology
solutions, a loyal and satisﬁed customer base and a leading
position in a substantial, sustainable and growing market place.
