 The 12 months to April 2005 have been excellent for Micro Focus
with revenues up 19.3% to over $150 million. At the same time
we have substantially improved both profit margins and the cash
flows from our operations.
We believe that our success is driven by the need for companies 
to increase their agility while, at the same time, reducing costs 
and minimising risk. This imperative has led many to look for ways
to capitalise on their investment in legacy technology. As much 
as 80% of an organisation’s software budget may be used to
maintain and operate legacy applications which have traditionally
been too inflexible to integrate with one another or with newer
technologies. The lower cost of contemporary platforms combined
with technical advances, such as security, flexibility and scalability,
and the emergence of enabling technologies, such as Web Services
and service-oriented architectures, has driven many organisations
to look for ways to re-use their legacy investments.
Organisations seeking to modernise their IT infrastructure
broadly have the following alternatives:
l Improve the development infrastructure for their current
applications and platforms by increasing developer productivity
and lowering development costs. We refer to this as Leverage
and Extend;
l Extend critical legacy applications and services on current
platforms to new internal and external user communities by
using the Internet and contemporary architectures, also part 
of Leverage and Extend;
l Move legacy applications from current high-cost or end-of-
life platforms, such as the mainframe, to more contemporary,
open and flexible platforms, such as Windows, UNIX and Linux.
We refer to this as Lift and Shift™; and
l Replace legacy applications on mainframes with new
packages or new custom-built applications which run on more
contemporary, open and flexible platforms, such as Windows,
UNIX and Linux, often referred to in the industry as Rip 
and Replace.
Our legacy application development and deployment software,
described in the technology review on pages 5 to 6, enables 
our customers to improve their development infrastructure, 
to extend legacy applications to new users and to move them 
to contemporary platforms. We believe that the high costs and
risks associated with large-scale replacement projects are rarely 
viable in today’s climate of tight cost and risk management 
and are, in most instances, unnecessary.
Customers
We sell our software through three channels:
l Direct customers buy our software to maintain and 
operate core legacy business applications and pay licence 
and maintenance fees direct to us;
l Indirect customers buy our software and pay licence and
maintenance fees through packaged application providers 
and systems integrators; and
l Resellers sell Micro Focus software in geographic areas
where Micro Focus does not have a presence.
Micro Focus International Plc Annual report 2005 7
Chief Executive Officer’s review of operations
Micro Focus in education
“We were able to preserve our investment 
in COBOL at low cost and risk because our
programmers were able to become productive
so quickly. Leveraging and extending our 
legacy system was the best option for us, 
and Micro Focus helped us preserve the 
value of our legacy investment.”
John Elliott, Director of Information Technology, Campus Partners Strengths
Our technology and resources enable businesses to extract 
value from legacy applications, platforms and architectures 
in a continually, and rapidly changing, IT environment. Below 
I highlight the key strengths of the Company which I believe
place Micro Focus in a unique position to help IT organisations
across the globe to reduce costs, increase agility and minimise
risk by leveraging their legacy assets.
We have deep technical understanding of legacy technologies
(for example, CICS, IMS, PL/I, Assembler, COBOL, DB2, Rexx, 
JCL and TSO) combined with that of contemporary platforms,
(Windows, UNIX and Linux) and architectures (.NET, J2EE and
Web Services). Our collaboration with specialist technology
partners supplements this knowledge, giving us and our
customers access to expertise in legacy technologies, such 
as Natural, Adabas, IDMS and RPG.
Our expertise, developed over 30 years, with a strong record of
technology innovation in legacy development and deployment
solutions, has resulted in more than one million licensed users 
of our software around the world. Our customers include more 
than 70 of the Fortune Global 100 companies. They include
companies who operate in a wide range of industry sectors,
including financial services, insurance and government, of
varying sizes and over a wide geographic area. Approximately
49% of our turnover is derived from North America, 38% from 
Europe and the Middle East, and 13% from the rest of the
world. No single customer dominates. Because our products 
are deeply integrated into our customers’ core IT systems, 
we have been able to create and maintain long-term
relationships with them. 
We have developed a strong platform, technology, service and
application partner ecosystem to expand our ability to develop,
market and distribute our products, and to further support our
customers’ legacy modernisation initiatives. For example: 
l Micro Focus is a member of the IBM Partnerworld
programme. We are a Microsoft Gold Certified Partner and 
a premier member of Microsoft’s Visual Studio Industry Partner
programme. In 2004, we jointly announced the formation of 
the MMA with Microsoft;
l We founded the Migration and Transformation Consortium,
a global network of companies which specialises in modernising
legacy systems with a combination of our software, specialist
technology and legacy expertise;
l Systems integrators such as Accenture, CSC and EDS work
with us to provide migration and deployment services which 
use our Lift and Shift™ software to minimise the risk of moving
customers’ applications to a contemporary platform; and
l Our application partners offer a range of packaged
applications which feature the latest technology innovations and
which can be implemented across a wide range of mainframe
and contemporary platforms.
8 Micro Focus International Plc Annual report 2005
Chief Executive Officer’s review of operations
Innovative
We have a strong record, based on
30 years’ experience, of developing
legacy and deployment solutions to
enable customers to evolve, rather
than replace, their technology.
Micro Focus in financial services
“With Net Express, CNB has shown that they
can easily exchange data across legacy and
new systems, minimising the disruption of
acquisitions while gaining agility to meet 
new business requirements as they emerge.”
Ed Proud, Vice President Information Systems, County National Bank Long-term customer relationships have resulted in a relatively
stable stream of revenue from recurring maintenance fees, as
well as from licence fees from packaged application providers. 
Around 44% of our revenue is derived from maintenance
contracts and, in the year ended 30 April 2005, around 90% of
our customers in the US, the UK and Germany (which together
accounted for approximately 75% of our total maintenance 
fee revenue) renewed their contracts with us. 
Our senior management team has more than 110 years’
combined experience in the software industry. Our technical
teams, who come from diverse backgrounds, are application,
platform and software engineering experts, and often choose 
to stay with us for many years. This stability, combined with our
expertise, gives us a strong basis on which to execute our strategy.
Strategy
Our objective is to be the leading global provider of legacy
development and deployment software. We believe we will
achieve this with the strategies outlined below.
We will endeavour to strengthen relationships with existing
customers by promoting our complementary Leverage and 
Micro Focus International Plc Annual report 2005 9
Micro Focus in energy 
“As we move proprietary credit card
programmes to a services-based
technology environment, Valero needed
a solution that would allow for a phased
low-risk approach. One that took
advantage of existing COBOL assets.”
Steve DiPaola, Vice President of Administrative Systems
and Production Support, Valero Energy Corporation
Global diversity
More than one million users
around the world are 
licensed to use our software: 
our customers include more 
than 70 of the Fortune
Global 100 companies.
85% OF ALL TRANSACTIONS
ARE PROCESSED BY LEGACY
APPLICATIONS. Extend and Lift and Shift™ solutions. We believe that
opportunities also exist to help systems integrators develop 
and deploy their own legacy applications.
The market for mainframe migration is expanding rapidly. 
We have been involved in more than 20 Lift and Shift™ projects
since we launched the software in April 2004. We aim to 
increase awareness of this solution through marketing and 
by establishing alliances with large systems integrators, and
software and hardware vendors, including members of the
MMA. The increasing level of interest from customers and the
growth in the average size of projects is, we believe, evidence
that the market for mainframe migration continues to grow.
We aim to increase indirect sales through packaged application
providers, systems integrators and resellers by strengthening
existing relationships with key industry players, such as
Accenture, EDS and CSC, and by developing new relationships
with other industry leaders. We intend to continue to 
10 Micro Focus International Plc Annual report 2005
Focused
Our objective is to become
the leading global provider
of legacy and deployment
software. Our common-
sense approach to upgrading
customers’ IT drives the
realisation of this ambition.
Micro Focus in retail
“The migration to a Micro Focus environment
under Windows has enabled us to re-allocate
the $150,000 we saved by slashing our IT
budget into business development.
We expect to experience a dramatic rise 
in productivity due to the enhanced
capabilities and increased efficiencies of 
the system, which has already enabled 
us to boost customer service and create 
better methods to market our products.”
Léo Théberge, CIO, Québec Loisirs
$1 TRILLION INVESTMENT IN 
LEGACY OVER LAST 30 YEARS. focus on selling software licences, and the associated
maintenance, and to rely on our systems integrator partners 
for professional services. 
We endeavour to continue to develop innovative technology
and we will further invest in expanding the features and
functionality of our technology and products. We intend to
maintain a leading position in our market for legacy application
development and deployment software by co-operating with 
our partners to expand the coverage of our technologies 
and products.
We intend to pursue selected technology-based acquisitions 
to take advantage of the growing mainframe migration market.
This will enable us to ensure that our technologies cover all the
necessary legacy and contemporary architectures, platforms and
applications. Any acquisition will be incremental and will be
selected to supplement existing products and to expand our
customer base.
Helping customers compete in a global economy
We help customers meet new industry regulations (such as 
Basel II and Sarbanes-Oxley) and add value to their businesses 
by enabling them to re-use and extend their legacy investments
to new internal and external user communities. Our software
increases the agility of their systems and the effectiveness of
their employees with minimum risk.
Micro Focus Leverage and Extend reduces development costs 
by using available skills and platforms efficiently, and increases
agility through the use of development tools, based on Windows,
to extend legacy applications to J2EE, .NET or Web Services.
Micro Focus Lift and Shift™ lowers hardware and software 
costs by migrating legacy applications to modern, open and
extensible platforms. Lift and Shift™ is underpinned by 
extensive support for mainframe applications on contemporary
Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms. Because of this, many
applications can be migrated in a fraction of the time it would
take to build a new application or to implement a new
commercial package.
We are committed to helping organisations protect their
investment in legacy applications. With the help of our
technology and over 50 active partners, more than 5,000
customers have already leveraged their legacy assets.
Dr Anthony Hill Chief Executive Officer
3 August 2005
Micro Focus International Plc Annual report 2005 11
Chief Executive Officer’s review of operations
Partnerships
We have developed an application
partner system to expand 
our ability to develop, market 
and distribute our products and 
to support our customers’ legacy
modernisation.
Micro Focus in partnership
“Micro Focus and Microsoft have helped
us position INGENIUM to a wider 
range of customers without sacrificing 
the security or scalability we enjoy on the
mainframe version, which many of our
customers continue to use. It truly is the
best of both worlds.”
Blair Goulet, Senior Vice President, Strategy and Global Initiatives,
SOLCORP
