 Chairman’s statement
4
The past year has been very disappointing for the business. 
In September 2005 and February 2006 we revised downwards
our expectations for growth for the year ahead.  We have 
since made solid progress in addressing the operational issues
that lay behind our performance, restructured the Company 
to reduce fixed costs and put a strong new management 
team in place. As we reached the end of the financial year,
it was encouraging that we marginally exceeded our revised 
fourth-quarter revenue expectations.
At the beginning of the second quarter, we reported that
trading for August had been weaker than usual for two
principal reasons: firstly, the rate of revenue contribution from
our larger, global Systems Integrator (SI) partners had been
slower than anticipated, and secondly, disruptions within the
sales force had delayed a planned expansion of the sales team.
As announced at the interim results, significant incremental
revenue from our global SI partners was not anticipated in 
the second half of the year to 30 April 2006, given the size 
and nature of these organisations. However, we continue 
to focus on strengthening and expanding these relationships.
We have also maintained a strong focus on strengthening our
sales force as a priority for the business. There is still some work
to do but we are pleased to say we are making progress.
A further update on trading was announced at the beginning 
of the fourth quarter due to a number of changes in trading
which had occurred since the half-year end. These included
delays in customer decisions and failure to close larger
opportunities; the knock-on impact on maintenance revenues
due to lower licence sales; and a reduction in the rate of
closure of smaller deals. 
Since then, we have successfully completed a small number 
of larger deals. While this portion of our revenues remains
inherently lumpy, we continue to focus on it as an important
element in improving our overall sales performance.
On 6 April 2006 the Company announced a cost reduction
programme to improve overall returns while maintaining 
the fabric of the business and the Company’s sales capability.
We have made solid progress in this respect.
The board is delighted to welcome Stephen Kelly as Chief
Executive Officer and Nick Bray as Chief Financial Officer.
Stephen joined Micro Focus on 1 May 2006. He has over 
20 years experience in the software sector and was previously
CEO of NASDAQ-listed Chordiant Software Inc. Nick joined
Micro Focus on 3 January 2006. He has broad experience in
the IT sector, both in the US and Europe and was previously
Group Finance Director of London-listed Fibernet Group plc. 
The board would like to thank all of Micro Focus’ employees
for their continued hard work and commitment throughout
the last year.  The board would also like to thank investors
during a difficult trading year for their continued support.
In 2006 the business underperformed. However, the board
took decisive action to recruit a new, experienced management
team which has implemented a rapid restructuring of the
business. In Q4, it was encouraging to see that we exceeded
our revised fourth-quarter expectations. Micro Focus is
focused on growth and I remain confident that the Company
will deliver good value to all its stakeholders. 
Kevin Loosemore Chairman
