 Micro Focus 
International plc
10
Chairman’s statement 
Kevin Loosemore
Chairman
Annual Report and 
Accounts 2009 Micro Focus 
International plc
Annual Report and 
Accounts 2009
11
Micro Focus has delivered another year of strong ﬁ nancial results, 
achieving signiﬁ cant organic revenue growth and improving proﬁ t 
margins, in spite of tough economic conditions. We successfully 
integrated NetManage, Liant and Relativity, companies acquired 
in June 2008, July 2008 and December 2008 respectively. 
While we remain conscious of the current challenging economic 
conditions, our long-term ambition remains to achieve signiﬁ cant 
growth in revenue and proﬁ ts through both organic and 
acquired means. 
The performance achieved over the past year continues to reﬂ ect 
well on the entire Micro Focus team and highlights the strong 
fundamentals of the business. We have ﬁ rst rate technology 
solutions, a loyal customer base and a leading position in a 
substantial, sustainable and growing marketplace. Market 
conditions for all companies are challenging but our revenue 
and EBITDA margin growth underlines the relevance of our 
customer proposition and the resilience of our business model. 
The board continues to adopt a progressive dividend policy reﬂ ecting 
the long-term earnings and cash ﬂ ow potential of Micro Focus and 
I am pleased to announce a proposed ﬁ nal dividend of 11.1 cents 
per share, giving a full year dividend of 15.6 cents per share. This 
represents a 20% increase when compared to a full year dividend 
of 13.0 cents last year and reﬂ ects the board’s conﬁ dence in both 
the relevance of our solutions and the prospects of Micro Focus. 
We ﬁ nished the year with cash of $71.6 million, and generated 
$105.0 million of cash from continuing operations during the year. 
Our business model has low ongoing capital requirements and 
delivers strong cash generation. During the year, $78.6 million 
of cash was used to fund the acquisitions and restructuring of 
NetManage, Liant and Relativity. This ﬁ gure comprises the purchase 
cost of $92.1 million, restructuring costs incurred of $14.9 million 
less cash acquired of $28.4 million. 
Since the year end we have completed the acquisition of the Testing 
and Automated Software Quality (‘ASQ’) business of Compuware 
for a gross consideration of $80 million. In addition, we have 
announced the acquisition of Borland Software Corporation for 
a gross consideration of approximately $113 million. To fund our 
acquisition and integration plans we have put in place a three-year 
revolving credit facility of $215 million provided through a syndicated 
loan consortium comprising Barclays, HSBC, Lloyds and RBS. 
As we build our Company to address new growth opportunities, we 
have added a signiﬁ cant number of employees to the business and 
I am pleased with their rapid integration, and the strong contribution 
they are making. The board would like to thank all of our employees 
for their continued hard work and commitment throughout the year. 
We continue to build for the future. 
We remain focused on proﬁ table revenue growth and I am conﬁ dent 
in the Company’s ability to continue to deliver value to all of its 
stakeholders. Through both dividend and capital growth we aim 
to deliver superior total shareholder returns. 
We look forward to the year ahead with conﬁ dence. 
Kevin Loosemore 
Chairman
 
WHAT WE DO 
TO DELIVER 
SHAREHOLDER 
VALUE
Delivering 
Shareholder 
Value
Resilient
Business 
Model
Compelling
Customer
Proposition
Effective 
Cost 
Management
Growth
Strategy
