 “DURING THE PAST YEAR, 
WE MADE SIGNIFICANT
PROGRESS IN ACHIEVING
OUR AMBITION OF BEING
THE LEADING SUPPLIER 
OF INDUSTRY-SPECIFIC 
IT SOLUTIONS TO THOSE
SECTORS IN WHICH WE
HAVE CHOSEN TO OPERATE.”
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Anite Group plc Review
Chief Executive’s review
A combination of investing in our products, making acquisitions
to strengthen our position, and disposals to sharpen our focus,
enabled us to make considerable progress in achieving our
ambition to be the leading supplier of industry-specific IT
solutions in the sectors in which we operate. We intend to
continue transforming Anite into a software-based company. 
As part of that, we will maintain our focus on our existing
markets, expand the products and services we offer our customers
and seek to grow our geographic footprint and customer base. 
Objectives
The key elements of our strategy to enable us to deliver
long-term shareholder value are to:
> realign the business to put the Wireless business at its heart;
> deliver organic growth in all our operations;
> continue to focus on revenue and earnings growth,
maintaining and improving margins, and maintaining 
strong operational cash flow;
> improve the quality of our business by increasing the
proportion of long-term recurring revenue; and 
> continue to look for businesses to acquire in our core
markets to enable us to increase our geographic coverage,
range of products and technology offers.
Strategic progress
The two acquisitions in our Wireless division are the first 
we have made for many years. They are an indication of how
central the Wireless business is to the company as a whole, 
and of our determination to continue to be a market leader.
In November 2006, we bought Nemo, a Finland-based
company which provides specialist systems and software for
testing mobile phone networks. Nemo originated within Nokia
in the 1990s. Nokia continues to be a key partner for both
technology, and sales and marketing. Adding network testing 
to our existing handset testing capability, has enabled us to
enter a market which is complementary to our existing
Wireless business. Where we had previously sold our
technology to mobile phone manufacturers and their suppliers,
to enable them to test the viability of new products, we now
also sell a range of solutions to the world’s leading mobile
phone operators. The introduction of new technologies creates
increasing complexity in the way mobile phones communicate
with cellular base stations; now we are able to supply the
software which enables operators to measure and analyse 
the quality of the interface between the mobile devices they
are developing and the radio access infrastructure. 
In January 2007, we made an additional positive step in our
Wireless business when we acquired Invenova. This small, 
but fast-growing, company was chosen by the WiMAX Forum 
– the industry body which promotes and certifies mobile
equipment for this wireless broadband technology – as the 
first certified protocol conformance test provider for the new
mobile WiMAX standard. The acquisition of Invenova created
the opportunity to establish Anite in the wireless broadband
test systems market, to diversify its product portfolio across 
a range of wireless technologies, and to add all the major
WiMAX developers to its customer base.
We believe there will be further opportunities to acquire
businesses to strengthen our wireless test business to the
benefit of our customers and our shareholders.
6
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Steve Rowley
Chief Executive Review
Chief Executive’s review
Anite Group plc
7
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Accelerating time-to-market for WiMAX mobile products
During 2007, Anite entered into a collaboration with
Beceem Communications, the leading provider of
semiconductor solutions for the wireless broadband market,
to enable customers to use their respective products more
effectively. Beceem – the first company to make terminal
chipsets for the IEEE 802.16e Mobile WiMAX standard
commercially available – was already using Anite solutions
to verify its reference designs.
In addition to collaborating on the WiMAX standard, 
the two companies are introducing a customer support
programme to give Beceem customers working with 
its chipset products, access to configuration information 
and testing tools which are proven to work with the 
latest versions of its software and firmware. CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Anite Group plc Review
Chief Executive’s review
8
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Cost-effective analysis of early product designs
Anite has been working with InterDigital – which designs,
develops and provides advanced wireless technologies 
and products that drive voice and data communications –
for several years. InterDigital, a leading contributor to 
global wireless standards, licenses its technologies to
manufacturers of 2G, 2.5G, 3G and 802 products
worldwide. 
Anite’s wireless test solutions have enabled InterDigital to
analyse product designs early in the development process
and to resolve issues before they become problems. 
Our innovative software and collaborative approach help
InterDigital to prove that its architecture meets the
demands of real-world users. We, in turn, benefit from
gaining valuable insights into the wireless product
development process, enabling us to continue to improve
our best-in-class tools for the development, conformance
and inter-operability markets. Review
Chief Executive’s review
Anite Group plc
9
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
International expansion
Another important part of our strategy is to expand
internationally – to increase our geographic reach – to respond
to the nature of our core markets and the needs of our
customers. Our Wireless business has, for many years, been
increasing its international presence, but our Travel business
has been predominantly UK based.
For the past three years we have been developing a new travel
reservation system in internet-based technologies and, as a
result, have created a product that can be sold internationally.
We can now offer the global tour operator industry a full
enterprise solution, from booking hotels and airlines to posting
booked holidays to the sales ledger. As a result, our Travel
division has not only had a record year for orders, having won
very large international clients, but is also confident that it 
will be the market leader for the future.
There is no doubt that the larger opportunities for Travel 
are outside the UK. Our strategy is to increase the division’s
international sales, in a similar way to the Wireless division,
which now earns around 90% of its revenue from outside
the UK.
Our markets
Anite operates in three clearly-defined markets: Wireless, 
Travel and Public Sector.
Wireless Anite provides specialist systems and software for
testing mobile phone handsets and networks. Over the past
three years, we have increased our share of the wireless testing
market which, according to industry analysts, is expected 
to continue to grow at 12% a year. The drivers for this are
constant innovation and the multitude of wireless standards 
– many of which are incorporated into a single device – the
frequency with which mobile users change their devices and the
effect developing markets will have on the industry as a whole.
The pressure on manufacturers to bring devices to market
faster and cheaper, and for network operators to retain the
loyalty of their subscribers, provides further opportunities 
for growth. Our customers are:
> mobile technology developers who use our systems 
to test new chipsets and protocol software at a 
pre- and post-silicon stage of their development process;
> mobile phone manufacturers who use our systems 
to test newly-developed handsets before they go
into production;
> test houses who carry out formal “type approval” tests 
on phones and devices that have similar technology; and
> mobile phone operators who are concerned about
validating new technologies, such as HSDPA, and which 
use our air interface testing solutions.
The opportunities for our Wireless business emanate from 
a number of factors in what is a fast-evolving industry:
> continuing growth in worldwide mobile telephone sales;
> improved geographic coverage of our sales operations;
> roll-out of new technologies, such as 3G, HSPA, WiMAX
and the long-term evolution of 3G;
> continuing development spend to stay at the forefront 
of changes in technology;
> increased proliferation of wireless devices; and
> increased demand from operators to improve the quality
and efficiency of the network.
Our Wireless division already holds many leading positions 
in its chosen fields, worldwide, but we will continue to invest 
in research and development to ensure that it maintains, and
improves, its market position. The acquisitions of Nemo and
Invenova have added new products to our portfolio, and will
enable us to strengthen our customer relationships and expand
our geographic reach.
Travel Anite is a leading provider of travel technology solutions
for tour operators, air fare consolidators, and cruise, ferry, motor
and rail inclusive operators in the UK and Europe. We are
developing our products to help our customers adapt to the
increasing effect the internet is having on their markets. 
Our customers can license our products, and operate the
system themselves, or buy a complete managed service
package, under which we run the service – including looking
after hardware and software – at one of our data centres.
Depending on the size of their operations, we have the 
ability to tailor our service to meet customers’ specific needs.
Our flexible pricing model enables smaller customers 
to pay on a per-transaction basis.
The travel market has changed dramatically in recent years: 
the majority of the growth is now in short breaks and specialist
holidays, for which customers go on-line to build their own
packages of flights, hotels and car hire. Consolidation in the 
UK market has resulted in the top four tour operators merging
into two larger competing companies. 
The principal factors which will affect the development of our
Travel business are:
> market consolidation in the UK;
> growing demand for short-breaks and specialist holidays
is increasing the size of the market; CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Anite Group plc Review
Chief Executive’s review
10
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
“WE INTEND TO CONTINUE WITH THE TRANSFORMATION 
OF ANITE INTO A SOFTWARE-BASED COMPANY. AS PART 
OF THAT, WE WILL MAINTAIN OUR FOCUS ON OUR EXISTING
MARKETS, WHILE EXPANDING THE RANGE OF PRODUCTS
AND SERVICES WE OFFER OUR CUSTOMERS.”
> the internet providing a do-it-yourself approach, which 
is changing the nature of holiday booking, and has resulted
in an increased demand for tailor-made travel booked
on-line. Our browser-based @comRes solution combines
content management, reservations and customer
relationship management systems for direct on-line
bookings, call centre reservations, fast-search facilities, 
and improved marketing activity – which can all be
supported by a 24x7 managed service; and
> recent world events, such as unrest in the Middle East,
avian flu and terrorism, have affected the pattern of
customer demand for holidays.
During the year, we increased our investment in our @comRes
reservation system, the scaleability of which was proved by a
successful benchmarking test, and secured orders from leading
UK and international companies. Enabling users of legacy
systems to migrate to our internet-based technology will help
us to maintain our market-leading position while, at the same
time, enabling us to increase our international sales efforts. 
Public Sector Anite is a market leader in software and
solutions to key parts of local government, including local tax
collection, benefits payments, housing management and social
care solutions – as well as an important supplier of Secure
Information Solutions (SIS) to the criminal justice markets.
More than 400 public sector organisations, including all UK
police forces and 75% of local authorities use our solutions.
Our customers are:
> local authorities who use our workflow, tax, social care,
benefits and housing solutions;
> central Government and criminal justice agencies who
use our surveillance, intelligence gathering, recognition,
biometric, security and fraud solutions.
Our public sector customers are affected by a number
of imperatives:
> the need to improve efficiency and effectiveness as the
result of legislative and political drivers. These continue to
put pressure on public sector organisations to make cost
savings year-on-year and to improve return on investment;
> the call for increased accessibility and transparency from
the Government, which is focused on transforming citizen
services and improving corporate performance; and
> the ability to share information by working together 
to protect vulnerable people and provide cleaner and 
safer streets.
Many shareholders will be familiar with the multi-year
programme of work on the Pericles product and the associated
legacy customer contracts. I am delighted to report that our
Pericles customers are all now successfully using the software
in a live environment and that all contracted customer
implementations for all Pericles modules are complete. 
This enables us to bid for new contracts with confidence.
The investment we have made in developing new products; 
in document management; in our integrated children’s and
adults’ systems; and in addressing the changing housing
market, will contribute positively to our business in the current
year. While we believe this market will continue to be tough,
we anticipate further improvement in our operating margins.
Outlook
We will continue to focus investment in our growth markets 
to respond to customer demand and to maximise opportunities
from advances in technology. This will be evidenced in a further
increase in development spending this year, principally
in Wireless.
Our Wireless division, which now includes Nemo and Invenova,
will continue to take advantage of growth in its underlying
markets, in emerging regions and new technologies. We expect
increased investment in development, combined with currency
movements, however, to temper the rate of profit growth
despite rising revenues.
We expect our Travel division to benefit from delivering 
its significant order book. It will continue to invest in the
transition to @comRes and in international opportunities. 
As the leading UK supplier, we intend to take advantage of 
the rapidly consolidating UK tour operating market.
Public Sector’s markets will be adjusting to the recent changes
in the Government, at a time of generally tight control of
public spending and strong competition between suppliers.
Demand in Local Government has stabilised and there are
good sales opportunities in some of the niche markets we
address, and we continue to see good opportunities in SIS.
Although public spending pressures will undoubtedly continue,
we are well placed to capitalise on the opening up of new
markets for the services that SIS offers. 
We have had a satisfactory start to the current financial year,
when our customary seasonality is taken into account, and look
ahead with cautious optimism about our progress and prospects.
Steve Rowley Chief Executive Review
Chief Executive’s review
Anite Group plc
11
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
A new route to creating holiday packages
Anite’s browser-based @comRes solution is proving to be 
a hit with travel operators. It combines Content Management
(CMS), and reservation and customer-relationship management
systems for on-line and call centre bookings, with faster-
searching facilities and improved marketing facilities.
Suntours, Finnair’s leisure travel division, is one of the many 
UK and European companies to adopt @comRes. The Finnish
operation has enhanced its investment by implementing
Anite’s dynamic cache, which enables users to create and find
holiday packages quickly without increasing the load on the
system. Four branded websites will run off the new system,
where the sites will be configured, built and implemented 
by Anite. The systems will be then hosted and managed by
Anite at its secure data centre in Berkshire.
