 I am pleased to present the Company’s
Annual Report & Financial Statements for
the year ended 31 December 2014. 
Delivering on our strategic aims
We established a number of business objectives for 2014 to
underpin our ambitions and I am pleased to announce
progress in all areas as follows.
An increased investment in marketing and communications
has been undertaken to promote your Company, its
products, technologies and core brand values. This has led
to an increasing amount of in-bound interest in our
products from potential partners and customers. We
anticipate this continuing as we move forward.
In 2014 we signed two further OEM agreements. One is
with Gilson Inc. for our single quadruple unit (the 4000
MiD®) and a second with a leading global scientific
Company for our triple quadrupole mass spectrometry
technology.
In addition, we signed an important agreement with Plexus
Corp. for the manufacture of the 4000 MiD
®
. This will
facilitate the scaling up of our production capabilities to
meet increasing demand. It will enable your Company to
optimise its potential now and in the future.
Our R&D programmes remain key areas in which we
continue to invest, and we were pleased to announce early
in 2014 the launch of the MiDas™, a compact interface
module. This new product is intended to extend the use of
the 4000 MiD
®
more widely throughout the scientific
research community. Further exciting R&D programmes are
in various stages of planning and development to ensure
your Company remains at the forefront of its chosen fields.
Financial results 
Microsaic generated revenues of £1.20 million in 2014, an
increase of 32% over 2013 revenues (£0.91 million). The
growth in consumable revenue is particularly noteworthy.
The loss before tax of £3.16 million (2013: loss of
£2.40 million), is a result of a larger cost base and is a
reflection of our continued investment in the future of your
Company as we lay the foundations and structures for a
successful commercial enterprise.
Shareholders 
The board is grateful for the ongoing support of
shareholders which allowed your board to raise further
funds of £4.1 million (after expenses) in October. These will
provide the essential working capital required by your
Company to finance its continuing growth and evolution.
Staff
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express my gratitude
to our staff for their hard work, loyalty and for continuing to
innovate, which is vital to the future success of the
Company.
In addition, I am pleased to announce the appointment of
Glenn Tracey as Chief Operating Officer. This is a new and
important role given the increasing number of opportunities
now available to your Company. Glenn will join the
management team and report directly to Colin Jump.
The Board
As previously announced, Andrew Darby joined as our
Finance Director in April, taking over from Malcolm
Bateman. Peter Edwards, Technical Director, retired from the
Board and Company in July. We thank both Malcolm and
Peter for their important contributions to the business and
wish them every success in the future.
Outlook
With the progress that the Company made in 2014 and the
new announcements in 2015, the Board remains confident
that Microsaic is well-positioned to capitalise on its
leadership in its chosen fields and grow the business over
the coming years. 
Colin Nicholl
Chairman
20 March 2015
2 Microsaic Systems plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Chairman’s statement
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Microsaic_pp01_07  26/03/2015  15:49  Page 2
