 Colin Jump
Chief Executive Officer
It is with great pleasure that I provide my
first report as Chief Executive of Microsaic
Systems. Since joining in November 2012,
I have had the opportunity to better
understand the business, its technology, its
people, its customers and the markets in
which it operates. I am very excited about
the opportunities that are opened up by the
Company’s technology in the field of
chemical analysis, and the high level of
market interest.
I would like to report on last year’s achievements, including
those before my appointment, and also provide a summary
of ongoing activities and our intended direction for the
business. 
Microsaic’s chip-based technology has allowed us to
miniaturise the mass spectrometer (MS) – the gold
standard for chemical analysis – far beyond any other
product on the market. This miniaturisation greatly
simplifies deployment, drastically cuts power consumption
and other running costs, and makes MS practical for a
wide range of new users and applications. 2012 saw the
first regular shipments of our breakthrough compact MS
product, the 3500 MiD
®
, following its launch in 2011.
This is the only MS on the market for liquid analysis
that requires no external pumps, being completely
self-contained within the size of a desktop computer. 
Our main route to market for the MiD
®
is to partner with
companies that have established sales channels and
complementary products, with an initial focus on the areas
of pharma and biotechnology. A key milestone in this
strategy was reached in May 2012 with the signing of an
OEM arrangement with Biotage AB. Biotage, listed on the
NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, is a well-established supplier
in the areas of analytical and medicinal chemistry, with a
global sales and service capability. Biotage is a leader in
the supply of flash chromatography, a widely used
separation and purification method in chemical synthesis.
In collaboration with Microsaic, Biotage is introducing a
fully integrated system incorporating the MiD
®
with its flash
systems, which will greatly increase the power and
effectiveness of flash, allowing, for example, automated
mass-directed separation. This will be the first such
product on the market, and early feedback from customers
has been positive.
Since signing of the agreement, the ‘Isolera Dalton’
integrated system has been developed by Biotage in
collaboration with Microsaic, and initial marketing has
begun, with presentations having been given at
international trade shows of the American Chemical
Society in the USA and JASIS in Japan. Interest in this new
Microsaic Systems plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 5
Chief Executive’s statement
for the year ended 31 December 2012 integrated system has been extremely encouraging and
has exceeded our initial expectations.
A key technical milestone in 2012 was our development of
an enhanced version of the 3500 MiD
®
, namely the 4000
MiD
®
. To ensure that MiD
®
s and the integrated Biotage
systems can fit comfortably within fume hoods – an
important capability for flash as well as other applications –
the 4000 has a significantly reduced footprint compared to
the 3500. Other enhancements were also incorporated,
and the first system was shipped to Biotage to support the
development programme in Q3 2012. Since then we have
taken the 4000 through final development stages, including
outsourcing of major sub-components, and continue to
prepare the system for volume manufacture so we can
benefit from economies of scale. Regular shipments of the
4000 MiD
®
have been made, and in March 2013 we
launched the 4000 MiD
®
officially at Pittcon, the major
international trade fair focused on scientific and laboratory
equipment, which took place in Philadelphia, USA. 
In addition to Biotage, we have been continuing to
develop our relationships with a range of other potential
commercial partners in the pharma, biotech and related
sectors. Two major analytical instrument suppliers have
conducted evaluations of 3500 systems; these led to
proposed enhancements in hardware and software which
have recently been implemented. Two other major
scientific instrument suppliers contracted with us to
develop versions of the MiD
®
with extended measurement
capability to meet the requirements of their specific
applications, and in both cases key technical targets have
been met. These partner discussions and collaborations
continue to advance towards the goal of OEM agreements
to supply the MiD
®
in combined products. We are also
pursuing funded development opportunities in other
industry sectors. For example, our interest in security
applications continues, where we have recently been
awarded a grant to develop advanced MS instruments
for on-site analysis of explosives and narcotics.
Our strategy for direct sales is to focus on new application
areas and to ensure we have direct contact with users, so as
to inform our product development and R&D programmes.
To further build this channel in 2013 we are enhancing our
business development and customer support functions with
a number of key hires in these areas.
Technical progress continued in 2012 including significant
enhancements to our production capability. Production of
the key chip-based components is retained in-house and
our productivity levels have been significantly increased.
Sub-systems have been transferred to external suppliers
and full system assembly will also be out-sourced later this
year. Further enhancements have also been made to the
user-replaceable components to make handling of these
increasingly simple, as part of our ‘Plug & Play’ approach. 
A further major technical milestone for the Company was
the first demonstration of a working prototype of a triple
quadrupole MS system that can analyse more complex
materials such as medical samples, for example, blood or
saliva. This system will give us the capability needed for our
next generation of MS products and further broaden the
range of applications that our miniaturised MS instruments
can address.
The importance of our products and their breakthrough
capabilities were acknowledged by several external agencies
in 2012. In June, the 3500 MiD
®
received a prestigious
R&D 100 award, given to the most significant technological
advances of the year across all sectors. We also published
results in collaboration with a prestigious laboratory at
Cambridge University in a leading peer-reviewed journal
(Browne, D.L. et al., Rapid Communications in Mass
Spectrometry 26, pp 1999-2010, 2012) on new capabilities
in continuous reaction monitoring facilitated by the 3500
MiD
®
.
6 Microsaic Systems plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Chief Executive’s statement (continued) Financial results
Revenues in 2012 rose to £606,281 (2011: £267,999)
having benefited from sales of our MiD
®
products on top of
grant income streams funding future product development.
We expect sales volumes to significantly grow in 2013 as
our joint product with Biotage is rolled out internationally
and market interest in our product increases.
Research and development expenditure in the year amounted
to £1,298,129 (2011: £1,314,851) reflecting continuing
investment in product development including enhancements
to our existing products and future products.
The Company’s manufacturing, sales and after-sales
capabilities are being steadily built up. Operating
expenses reported for the year increased to £1,179,516
(2011: £1,090,718), however this includes a one-off write
back of £81,901 of prior year share-based payment
charges following the lapsing of unexercised share
options.
In June the Company placed 3,867,248 ordinary shares
with existing and new shareholders. This represented a 10%
increase in the Company’s issued share capital and we
gratefully acknowledge the on-going support shown by our
investors. The net proceeds raised from the issue amounted
to £1.45 million. These funds have enabled us to enhance
our capability in several areas, particularly software
development, production and applications development.
We have made hires in each of these areas and these new
employees are already adding to our capability to address
market requirements and opportunities.
The loss for the year after tax was £1,867,069 (2011:
£1,899,253) and the cash position at 31 December 2012
of £1,788,579 was at a similar level to a year previous
(2011: £1,818,319), as the net cash used in operating
activities was offset by that raised through the share issue.
As with previous years, the going concern basis has
continued to be adopted in preparing the financial
statements. Following the progress made by the Company
to date and the progress anticipated in the near term, the
Directors have a reasonable expectation of securing
suitable additional funding as may be required to continue
operations and provide for future expansion.
Outlook 
Since the end of the financial year we have signed a
second OEM agreement to provide the Microsaic 4000
MiD
®
as a stand-alone instrument on a non-exclusive
basis. This agreement resulted directly from expressions of
interest from customers and represents the first of what we
anticipate will be a number of sales channels of this type,
which will add significantly to our overall sales.
This new agreement together with good progress across
other areas of our business and a growing profile within the
scientific analytical instrumentation market, gives us
confidence as we address three distinct business strategies
that underpin our ambitions for 2013 and beyond:
• Developing OEM partnerships with synergistic
companies, which can provide Microsaic with access
to enhanced sales distribution channels alongside our
own direct sales channel.
• Stepping up our marketing communications and the
promotion of the core brand values of Microsaic.
• Outsourcing the manufacture of the main product
ensuring high quality build, reliability and high
volume capacity.
We will continue discussions with interested OEM partners
who have established global sales distribution channels, in
order to advance those relationships towards commercial
agreements. 
Further innovations around the concept of ‘Plug & Play’
components are planned. Within the MS market, our ‘Plug
& Play’ designs are unique and will largely dispense with the
need for highly technical operators or support/service staff,
therefore increasing the operational use of system (reducing
system down-time) and reducing cost to the user. This
concept will provide a clearer differentiator between us and
any other current vendors of MS instrumentation.
The Company has a wealth of committed expertise in its
people. They have built a solid platform for growth and
gained invaluable experience introducing new technology
within an established, naturally conservative market. It is my
and my fellow Directors’ belief that these strengths and our
shared vision can make Microsaic Systems a highly
successful company moving forward.
Colin Jump
Chief Executive Officer
12 April 2013
Microsaic Systems plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 7
