 I am pleased to present the Company’s
Annual Report & Financial Statements for
the year ended 31 December 2013. 
2013 was a year where Microsaic
achieved a number of key milestones, most
notably the launch of the 4000 MiD
®
.
It also saw the launch of the first OEM
product to contain the 4000 MiD
®
, the
Biotage Isolera™ Dalton. The Company’s
product development program continued
apace with the more recent release of the
MiDas™, which will extend the reach of
Microsaic’s technology into a wider range
of applications and environments.
The 4000 MiD
®
and the MiDas™ together
form the core technologies behind our
successful recent signing of a further
commercial agreement for the detection of
proteins. We are excited by the opportunity
to work with a major global healthcare
equipment company. The opportunities
provided by our ‘chip’ based technologies
and ‘plug and play’ offering will continue
to grow, as we extend the capabilities of
our technology and product range over the
years to come.
Our relationship with Biotage AB has moved forward and
we continue to work closely with them. In addition to this
relationship, we are excited by the size and quality of
companies that continue to approach us to discuss
commercial opportunities. These relate to opportunities for
our single quad technology, but also our in development
triple quad where a number of major global companies are
expressing a keen interest. This product has undergone
successful prototype demonstrations and continues to make
positive progress towards completion. 
Over the last few years there has been a tangible
transformation in the nature of our business. The evolution
from a university spinout into a quoted commercial
enterprise is evident. The Company’s strategy, structure,
culture, and infrastructure have all developed significantly
which has led to a growing level of public and industry
recognitions. 
In the past 12 months there have been two changes to the
Board. Last summer Eric Yeatman stood down from the role
of Chairman. I would like to thank Eric for his invaluable
input during his nine year tenure as Chairman. During this
time the Company has achieved a growing reputation in
pioneering mass spectrometry miniaturisation. We are
pleased that Eric continues to serve as a member of the
Board and brings expertise to bear on the advancement
of our unique technology. 
More recently we announced the resignation of Malcolm
Bateman who has stepped down as Finance Director and
will leave the Company at the end of April 2014 to pursue
his other interests. Malcolm joined Microsaic in 2006 as
Financial Controller and was appointed to the Board in
2011. He played a major part in the 2011 IPO and has
been an important member of the management team over
the past eight years. We would like to thank him for his
contribution in securing Microsaic’s development, and wish
him well in the next stage of his career. We are pleased to
welcome Andrew Darby ACA as our new Finance Director.
I would again like to thank our shareholders for their
support during the last year. Over 2014 we shall continue
to build upon the achievements already made and continue
to capitalise on the opportunities that are becoming
increasingly evident. 
Colin Nicholl
Chairman
29 April 2014
2 Microsaic Systems plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Chairman’s statement
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Microsaic_pp01_07_Microsaic_01_07  07/05/2014  10:38  Page 2
