 The last three financial years have been transformational for
Anite with the current management team delivering increased
strategic momentum, enhanced by their being able to focus
wholly on Anite’s core businesses and growth strategy
following the resolution of various historic issues which had
affected the Group.
Two acquisitions and three disposals, one since the year end,
were further milestones in Anite’s continuing transformation
into a leading global software business with a stronger focus
on wireless telecoms, from a UK-centric, public sector and IT
consulting and services business.
Acquisitions and disposals
In the second half of the financial year we made two important
acquisitions, our first for some years. The first and larger of the
two was Nemo Technologies Limited, a leading Finland-based,
global provider of specialist systems and software for mobile
phone network testing. The second acquisition was of Invenova
Corporation, a California-based provider of software and
systems for WiMAX* (wireless broadband) device testing.
These acquisitions represent important further steps in the
development of Anite’s Wireless business, which we have put
firmly at the heart of the Group. Both acquisitions were in 
line with our strategy of entering adjacent telecoms markets
through either internal investment or acquisition, whilst
enhancing customer penetration and global presence.
Following these acquisitions, our Wireless business as a whole
now represents around 40% of Group revenue and 65% of
Group underlying operating profit on an annualised basis. 
* “WiMAX” is a trademark of the WiMAX Forum®.
We also successfully disposed of two small non-core
businesses, respectively based in Germany (GMO Management
Consulting) and Italy (Anite Opentur). Since the year end we
have also disposed of our remaining German IT services
business, Anite Deutschland. 
We will continue to review selective acquisition opportunities
that would help achieve our aim of being number one or two
in our chosen markets and to dispose of businesses for which
we see little prospect of achieving critical mass in the short to
medium term. Our overriding objective in all cases is to create
shareholder value.
Divisional overview
We made good progress in all our businesses during the year. 
A full account of the Group’s activities is included later on in
this report, but I set out some highlights of the year below.
Wireless, which holds many leading global positions in its
chosen fields, had another successful year, continuing to invest
in research and development whilst maintaining its leading
market position. The acquisitions of Nemo and Invenova, which
operate in adjacent and complementary areas of the wireless
telecoms markets, add new products to our existing portfolio,
deepen our customer relationships and broaden our
geographical reach.
Our market leading Travel division had an excellent year. 
We invested further in its exciting new reservation system,
@comRes, which is at the forefront of helping its tour 
operator customers meet the challenges of internet-based
competition. It has a record order book boosted by significant
international growth.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Anite Group plc Overview
Chairman’s statement
“I AM PLEASED TO REPORT 
A STRONG PERFORMANCE 
BY ANITE IN THE YEAR 
UNDER REVIEW, WITH 
GOOD RESULTS FROM 
OUR WIRELESS AND 
TRAVEL BUSINESSES 
AND AN IMPROVED 
OVERALL RESULT FROM
PUBLIC SECTOR.”
4
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Clay Brendish
Chairman Overview
Chairman’s statement
Anite Group plc
5
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Our Public Sector division, which is a market leader in a
number of its key activities, reported improved overall results. 
A good performance by Secure Information Solutions (SIS) 
and a reduction in Pericles losses helped counterbalance the
continued softness in the Local Government market.
Group results
Underlying profit before tax from continuing operations was
£27.9m (2006: £25.8m), giving basic earnings per share of 
5.8p (2006: 5.3p). Underlying Group revenue amounted to
£171.7m (2006: £166.2m). 
Nemo contributed £6.9m of revenue and £2.0m of underlying
profit. Revenues and profits were also impacted by significantly
lower third party hardware revenues (down £14.9m), and the
weakness of the US dollar. The currency impact affected
Wireless in particular, and reduced revenues by £2.6m and
profits by £2.0m on a constant currency basis. Group
development spending in the period rose to £18.0m 
(2006: £14.5m), of which increase £2.8m was in the Wireless
division; net capitalised development was £3.0m (2006: £2.1m).
Good cost control and a better mix benefited underlying
operating margins, which were 16.7% (2006: 15.2%) in the
period. Unallocated Group corporate costs increased by £1.1m,
including £0.5m of additional share-based payments, additional
professional fees, interim Finance Director costs and the impact
of having established a central project management resource
overseeing major contract bids and project governance.
Group profit after tax including discontinued operations was
£20.3m (2006: £8.9m), with basic earnings per share of 5.8p
(2006: 2.5p), and diluted earnings per share of 5.7p (2006: 2.5p).
Pericles losses reduced substantially during the period and
there has been no addition to the related contract provisions.
All outstanding customer disputes have now been either
agreed or settled within the provision.
Dividend and share buyback 
Following the resumption of dividend payments last year with
the first dividend since 2000, the Board adopted a progressive
dividend policy with an intended split of approximately one
third at the half year and two thirds at the full year. 
For 2007 the Board is recommending a final dividend of 
0.55p per share (2006: 0.5p) which, together with the interim
dividend paid of 0.25p per share, makes a total dividend
payable for the year of 0.80p (2006: 0.5p). The final dividend
will be payable on 16 November 2007 to shareholders on 
the register on 19 October 2007. 
A resolution to renew the authority to buy back shares was
approved at the Group’s AGM held on 3 October 2006. 
During the year 0.8m shares were bought back for cancellation
at a cost of £0.6m and an average price of 71.5p per share.
People
We were pleased to welcome Christopher Humphrey, our
Group Finance Director, back to the business in January, 
having taken a leave of absence on health grounds. We thank
Geoff Bicknell who stood in as Interim Group Finance Director
in Chris’s absence.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all employees 
for their contribution, hard work and support during the year.
Change of name
In order to recognise the changing nature of the Group and 
to enable simplified marketing, shareholders will be asked 
to approve a resolution to change the name of the Company 
to “Anite plc” at the AGM to be held on 3 October 2007.
Conclusion 
Over the course of the last year the transformation of the Group
through investment, acquisitions and disposals has continued. 
The Board is cautiously optimistic about Anite’s prospects and
progress for the current financial year. 
Clay Brendish Chairman
2002/03
Wireless
Notes: 1  From continuing operations including International and excluding SoV.
2  Wireless shows enlarged Wireless group, incorporating Nemo revenues for 12 months to 30 April 2007.
Other
Other
Wireless
2006/07 Proforma
2
81%
19%
60%
40%
Revenue transition
1
Operating profit transition
1
FY 2002/03
Wireless
Notes: 1  From continuing operations including International and excluding SoV.
2  Wireless shows enlarged Wireless group, incorporating Nemo profit for 12 months to 30 April 2007.
Other
Other
Wireless
FY 2006/07 Proforma
2
57%
43% 33%
67%
