 4 Microsaic Systems plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Microsaic has enjoyed a highly productive
year in 2013, making notable progress in
our on-going evolution into a successful
commercial business. We continue to
execute our strategy of developing
commercial partnerships, whilst at the
same time growing direct sales to end
users. In parallel, we have continued to
make significant technological advances
that will in time give us the capability
needed for our next generation of
products. This will further broaden the
range of applications that our miniaturised
mass spectrometry (MS) instruments can
address.
Microsaic’s chip-based technology has allowed us to
miniaturise the mass spectrometer – the gold standard for
chemical analysis – far beyond any other product on the
market. This miniaturisation greatly simplifies deployment,
drastically cutting power consumption and other running
costs, and makes MS much more accessible to lab scientists
than it has ever been before. 
Our lead MS instrument, the Microsaic 4000 MiD
®
, was
officially launched in March 2013 at Pittcon, the major
annual international trade fair focused on scientific and
laboratory equipment, which took place in Philadelphia,
USA. The market’s response and subsequent acceptance
of the 4000 MiD
®
has been enthusiastic and through
a combination of direct sales and shipments to our OEM
partner we achieved a near doubling of our revenue for
the full year 2013 to £1.17 million (£0.61 million in 2012). 
Commercial strategy
Our main route to market for our product is as an original
equipment manufacturer (OEM) through partnerships with
companies that have established global sales channels.
These companies also have complementary products that
when combined with our product can deliver synergistic
benefits for the end users. During the year, we strengthened
our relationship with our existing OEM partner, Biotage AB.
In June Biotage AB launched its fully integrated system for
flash chromatography and mass identification which
incorporated our core MS instrument, the 4000 MiD
®
.
Demand for the integrated product, the Isolera™ Dalton,
has been good and shipments of the 4000 MiD
®
to Biotage
are in line with expectations.
We continue to develop relationships with new potential
commercial partners in the pharma, biotech and other
related sectors. In this regard we were pleased to announce
in April 2013 the signing of an OEM agreement for the
global, non-exclusive marketing and sale of the 4000 MiD
®
as a stand-alone instrument for use in direct and rapid MS
analysis. Successful trials have also been completed with
a number of other potential partners and discussions are
advancing with several of these aimed at securing
commercial agreements. 
Strategic report – Chief Executive’s review
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Microsaic_pp01_07_Microsaic_01_07  07/05/2014  10:38  Page 4 Microsaic Systems plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 5
We were pleased to announce on 14 April 2014 the
signing of a pre-contract commercial agreement to provide
the miniature mass spectrometer – the Microsaic 4000
MiD
®
– as an Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM).
The agreement is for the global, exclusive marketing and
sale of the 4000 MiD
®
, along with the recently released
MiDas™ interface unit, as a stand-alone instrument for use
in protein separation applications. The partner is a major
international healthcare equipment company.
The agreement is focused on the use of the 4000 MiD
®
in conjunction with protein separation, a major application
that is used globally and has increasing market demand.
It follows a period of R&D collaboration in which Microsaic
has successfully adapted and enhanced the 4000 MiD
®
to address this new application. 
We will work towards completion and signing of a full
commercial contract, which is anticipated to include a
commitment to purchase up to 50 units and consumables
of the 4000 MiD
®
in the first year, increasing to over
200 units and consumables from the fourth year onwards.
The initial period of the contract is expected to be
48 months. The selling price is in line with the Board’s
expectations. Shipments under the agreement are
anticipated to commence in Q1 2015.
In addition to OEM agreements for our products in the
major MS application areas, we achieved a number of
direct sales to customers in new and high-value application
areas. Direct contact with users is proving to be valuable as
a means of prioritising future product development and
R&D programmes. A number of key direct sales have
already been achieved and a pipeline has been established
for the coming year.
The 4000 MiD
®
is currently manufactured at our facility in
Woking, but in line with our commercial strategy, and as
sales increase in 2014, we will be outsourcing the
production of the units to an accredited third-party supplier.
New technologies
Our marketing plan for 2013 has been directed towards
positioning Microsaic as a solution provider for chemical
analysis, rather than simply as a mass spectrometer vendor.
In line with this plan, we have been leveraging our technical
expertise to develop next-generation products that we
believe will significantly expand the range of applications
that our innovative MS instruments can address and that
end-users will increasingly demand.
In January 2014, we launched the MiDas™ compact
interface module. The MiDas™ unit has been designed to
extend the use of MS in the laboratory from specialist
analytical chemists to the wider research community.
It connects to the 4000 MiD
®
and offers automated sample
preparation and injection for direct MS analysis in real-time
at the lab bench or in the fume hood.
Our strategy is to commercialise MiDas™ alongside the
4000 MiD
®
through partnerships with well-established
suppliers in the areas of analytical and medicinal chemistry,
and directly to customers in niche application areas.
In June 2013, we presented a working prototype of our
chip-based triple quadrupole mass spectrometer for the first
time, at the American Society of Mass Spectrometry (ASMS).
This new technology can analyse more complex materials,
such as medical (e.g. blood or saliva) or environmental
samples, and is an important achievement that has the
potential to further extend Microsaic’s leading position in
miniaturised MS instrumentation. We recently exhibited our
latest progress with this system at the major trade fair
Pittcon in March 2014, where the reception from delegates
was very encouraging. Negotiations are on-going with
a number of possible key MS instrument partners to develop
the triple quadrupole into a fully commercial product, with
an expected launch date in 2015. 
At the same event, we displayed our concept product, 4500
MiD
®
instrument for the first time. This system is an
extension of the 4000 MiD
®
and has been designed for the
mass identification of larger molecules in sample mixtures,
such as proteins and peptides. We intend to launch this
product in the next twelve months and are already engaged
in discussions with potential OEM partners to develop this
system further for commercialisation in several areas.
Microsaic_pp01_07_Microsaic_01_07  07/05/2014  10:38  Page 5 Financial results
Revenues increased 92% to £1,165,235 in 2013 (2012:
£606,281). OEM sales volumes of the 4000 MiD
®
have
been the principal contributor to this rise, with regular
monthly shipments being made. Sales of consumables are
also rising, and will become more significant over time as
the installed base grows. 
Research and development revenue streams are becoming
a less significant proportion of the total company income,
but continue to make a contribution. Spending on R&D
amounted to £927,379 and was focused on product
enhancements in order to open up new application
opportunities for the MiD
®
and on our triple quadrupole
mass spectrometer.
The total comprehensive loss for the year was £2,285,158
compared to £1,867,069 in the previous year. Excluding
the effects of share-based payments accounting, the
operating expenses for 2013 and 2012 were £1,462,395
and £1,228,084 – the increase arising from business
development and marketing activities and augmenting the
business infrastructure as commercial operations ramp up.
In May, the Company placed 9,951,443 ordinary shares
with new and existing shareholders. This represented a 23%
increase in the Company’s issued share capital. We wish to
thank our investors for supporting this placing, which will
enable the Company to execute its organic revenue growth
plans, as well as allow investment in the development and
production of instruments and technologies. The gross
proceeds raised from the issue amounted to £4.28 million.
Cash in hand at 31 December 2013 was £3.24 million.
As with previous years, the going concern basis has
continued to be adopted in preparing the financial
statements. Following the progress made by the Company
to date and the progress anticipated in the near term, the
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company
will have access to adequate funds to continue operations
for at least twelve months. Further details are provided in
the notes to the financial statements.
Enhancing the team
To ensure the Company is equipped with the necessary skills
and personnel to drive continuing revenue growth and to
support the transition into a successful commercial business,
we have made a number of new hires during the year.
We have created a new business development team, whose
objective is to grow direct sales and establish new
commercial relationships and routes to market. Our
customer services team has been enhanced significantly and
the engineering team has been expanded in order to ensure
our OEM and direct customers have the technical support
they require. I am now confident that we have the
commercial and technical personnel in place to support
senior management as we look to drive the growth of the
business in the years ahead.
I am delighted to report the appointment of Andrew Darby
as Finance Director. Andrew Darby has over 17 years of
experience in senior finance, strategic and operational roles
within quoted companies in the information technology
sector. He joins Microsaic from Active Risk Group plc,
formerly an AIM-listed company specialising in enterprise
risk management software solutions. 
In October, we announced the formation of the Company’s
first Scientific Advisory Group. Members of the Group have
impressive credentials across a wide range of areas in
industry and research, and will be able to advise us on
future applications for our chip-based technology.
6 Microsaic Systems plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report – Chief Executive’s review (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Microsaic_pp01_07_Microsaic_01_07  07/05/2014  10:38  Page 6 Outlook 
I am very pleased with the progress that Microsaic made
across all areas of its business in 2013. We have built
a strong foundation around the 4000 MiD
®
though our
OEM partnerships and are confident of signing further
agreements with other interested OEM partners who have
established global sales distribution channels. Sales are
building and we are gaining increasing recognition for the
potential of our innovative MS technologies and new
products within the scientific analytical instrumentation
market, where we believe we have an opportunity to make
MS accessible across a broader range of applications and
to a much larger number of lab scientists than ever before.
We now have the team in place needed to support the
expected growth and development of our business.
We are focused on three business strategies that underpin
our ambitions for 2014 and beyond:
• Developing OEM partnerships with synergistic
companies, which can provide Microsaic with access
to enhanced sales distribution channels alongside our
own direct sales channel.
• Stepping up marketing communications and the
promotion of the core brand values of Microsaic.
• Outsourcing the manufacture of the main product
ensuring high-quality build, reliability and high volume
capacity.
All our activities are aligned to these three priorities. Our
‘plug & play’ usability designs remain unique and the
increasing market acceptance of our chip-based technology
will provide the platform for further growth and
differentiation from competitors. We remain intent on
broadening the application base and enhancing user
experience of the MiD
®
in order to make it the benchtop
analytical tool of choice for chemists. It is my belief that
these strengths, and focused strategy puts Microsaic
Systems in a strong position to capitalise in an evolving
market.
Microsaic Systems plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 7
Microsaic_pp01_07_Microsaic_01_07  07/05/2014  10:38  Page 7
