 4 Microsaic Systems plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Microsaic has enjoyed another highly
productive year in 2014, making good
progress in our on-going evolution into a
successful commercial business. We
continued to execute our strategy of
developing commercial partnerships with
international suppliers of complementary
equipment so that we can sell our products
through their existing sales channels. In
parallel, we made significant technological
advances that will in time give us the
capability needed for our next generation
of products. These will further broaden the
range of applications that our miniaturised
mass spectrometry (MS) instruments can
address.
Our technology and our products
Microsaic’s chip-based technology has allowed us to
miniaturise the mass spectrometer – the gold standard for
chemical analysis – far beyond any other product on the
market. This miniaturisation greatly simplifies deployment,
drastically reducing the overall cost of ownership and
makes MS much more accessible to lab scientists than it
has ever been before. 
Today we market two products. Our lead MS instrument is
the Microsaic 4000 MiD
®
, officially launched in March
2013. Sales of this product increased during the year,
mainly through our OEM partner, Biotage AB, which
features the 4000 MiD
®
as a core component of its
Isolera™ Dalton instrument. In January 2014, we launched
the MiDas™ compact interface module. This unit has been
designed to extend the use of MS in the laboratory from
specialist analytical chemists to the wider research
community. The MiDas™ unit connects to the 4000 MiD
®
and offers automated sample preparation and handling for
direct MS analysis in real-time at the lab bench or in the
fume hood
Commercial strategy
The main route to market for our product is as an original
equipment manufacturer (OEM) through partnerships with
companies that have established global sales channels.
These companies also have complementary products that
when combined with our product can deliver synergistic
benefits for the end users. 
We signed additional agreements during 2014 with Gilson
Inc. and with a leading global scientific company.
Our agreement with Gilson is for our 4000 MiD
®
to be
combined with Gilson’s high performance liquid
chromatography instruments. I am pleased to report that
initial units were shipped during January 2015 to Gilson
where further development of the final combined product is
being conducted.
Our agreement with a leading global scientific company is
for our triple quadrupole technology for use in applied
markets. Triple quadrupole technology provides us with an
opportunity to extend the application of MS to the analysis
of more complex materials, such as food, medical or
environmental samples.
Since the year-end we have signed a further OEM
agreement with GE Healthcare for a customised version of
our 4000 MiD
®
to be deployed, together with the MiDas™,
in combination with GE Healthcare’s instruments as an
innovative new analytical instrument for use in research and
healthcare applications.
Strategic report – Chief Executive’s review
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Microsaic_pp01_07  26/03/2015  15:49  Page 4 Microsaic Systems plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 5
While commercial sensitivities prevent us disclosing more
detail on the agreements we have signed or specific
applications being targeted, we can state that we are
delighted with the high quality of our partners and the
strong working relationships we have established. This gives
us confidence that resulting products have the best
opportunity to fulfil their commercial potential. 
Outsourcing the manufacture of the non-chip based
components of the 4000 MiD
®
in preparation for
production scale up was a key strategic aim during 2014.
We were delighted therefore to sign an agreement in
September 2014 with Plexus, a leading manufacturer to
technology companies. The handover process is complete
and the first finished units were delivered to us in early
2015.
Furthermore, since the year-end we have signed a
distributor agreement with Kinesis, a leading international
supplier of analytical consumables and equipment, for the
distribution of the Microsaic-branded 4000 MiD
®
in the UK,
Europe and India. Demonstration units have already been
ordered and delivered.
We will continue to develop relationships with new potential
commercial partners in the pharma, biotech and other
targeted sectors.
Finally, to support our commercial strategy, we achieved
ISO 9001 accreditation during 2014.
R&D
Our marketing plan for 2014 continued to be directed
towards positioning Microsaic as a solution provider for
chemical analysis, rather than simply as a mass
spectrometer vendor. 
In line with this plan, we have been leveraging our technical
expertise to develop next-generation products that we
believe will significantly expand the range of applications
that our innovative MS instruments can address and that
end-users will increasingly demand.
In January 2014, we launched the MiDas™ compact
interface module, described earlier.
Our R&D in 2015 will be directed towards achieving
technical milestones in our OEM partnership opportunities,
as well as developing next-generation products to expand
our range of applications.
Microsaic maintains a large portfolio of patents, of which
52 are granted.
People
We have made significant investment in our business
development, customer services and engineering teams
over the last 18 months to position the Company for future
commercial growth. The emphasis over the next 12 months
will be to apply these teams in the execution of the business
we have already won. We will continue to recruit new talent
where it will complement the existing team in order to
maintain a market-leading position.
The Company’s Scientific Advisory Group, formed in 2013,
met a number of times during the year and has made
valuable contributions to the product marketing plan going
forward.
Performance Measurement
The ongoing performance of the Company is managed and
monitored using a number of key performance indicators. 
The Company’s revenues are monitored as follows:
Year to Year to 
31 December 31 December 
2014 2013 Inc/(Dec)
Revenue metrics £ £%
Products 1,010,062 835,770 21%
Consumables 102,333 59,232 73%
Revenues comprise sales of products, consumables thereon
and service income associated with delivering the products.
The growth in consumables income reflects the growing
user base.
The Company’s profit and cash are monitored as follows:
Year to Year to 
31 December 31 December 
2014 2013 Inc/(Dec)
Profit & cash metrics £ ££
Loss before share 
based payments, 
interest & tax (3,108,280) (2,339,514) –33%
Cash used in 
operating and 
investing activities (2,878,993) (2,552,302) –13%
Cash and cash 
equivalents 4,548,545 3,239,283 40%
The Company’s profitability is monitored through monthly
forecasting, which tracks where the business is and where it
is forecast to be at a certain date. The cash position is
monitored on a daily basis and re-forecast monthly.
The progress of the Company’s research and development
programmes is reviewed on a monthly basis by the senior
management team. Progress is summarised for the board.
Microsaic_pp01_07  26/03/2015  15:49  Page 5 Financial Results
In line with the Company’s transition from grant-generated
revenues to product sales, an accounting policy change
has been made to make the financial information more
relevant. This will also make it easier for users to
understand the financial statements. Accordingly,
non-product sales are now presented under ‘Other
operating income’ and cost of sales and operating
expenses have been re-categorised so that cost of sales
now includes only the raw materials cost of products sold.
Operating expenses represents the cost base of the
business. As a result of this accounting policy change,
comparative figures have been restated. 
Revenues increased 32% to £1,203,636 (2013:
£908,442). Product sales increased by 21%, with a full in
year contribution from Biotage, and consumables increased
by 73%, reflecting the growing user base. In line with the
Company’s transition from being reliant on income from
EU grants and prototype sales, other operating income was
lower at £102,145 (2013: £256,793). Gross margins were
42% (2013: 36%) and, accordingly gross profit was
£503,456 (2013: £326,919). 
We have noted that one distribution channel has delivered
softer than expected product sales in early 2015. The
causes of this issue have been identified and management
is taking steps to address this. The recently signed OEM
agreements will begin contributing to sales growth as
further new products are launched, anticipated in H2 2015
and 2016.
Operating expenses (excluding share-based payments) were
£3,713,881 (2013: £2,923,226). The increase in
operating expenses was mainly due to the Company’s
investment in the building of OEM partnerships, all of which
are located overseas, and the investment in the
manufacturing process to make it capable of being
outsourced and ready for mass production. 
Therefore, the loss for the period, before share-based
payments, tax and interest, was £3,108,280 (2013:
£2,339,514). 
In October, the Company placed 10,500,000 ordinary
shares with new and existing shareholders. This represented
a 20% increase in the Company’s issued share capital. The
gross proceeds raised from the issue amounted to
£4.4 million. The cash position at 31 December 2014 was
£4.55 million (2013 £3.24 million).
As with previous years, the going concern basis has
continued to be adopted in preparing the financial
statements. Following the progress made by the Company
to date and the progress anticipated in the near term, the
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company
will have access to adequate funds to continue operations
for at least 12 months. Further details are provided in the
notes to the financial statements.
Outlook 
The Board is pleased with the progress that Microsaic has
made across all areas of its business in 2014. We have
signed a further three OEM agreements targeting specific
applications, a manufacturing agreement that provides
capacity to meet expected commercial demand and a
distributor agreement for our own branded instruments in
key markets. Together, this provides Microsaic with a strong
base for the business to move forward and is a significant
step forward from our position 12 months ago. 
We are continuing to gain increasing recognition for the
potential of our innovative MS technologies and new
products within the scientific analytical instrumentation
market, where we believe we have an opportunity to make
MS accessible across a broader range of applications and
to a much larger number of lab scientists than ever before.
We are focused on three business objectives that underpin
our ambitions for 2015 and beyond:
• Executing on our existing OEM agreements and
distributor agreement
• Developing further OEM partnerships with synergistic
companies, which can provide Microsaic with access to
enhanced sales distribution channels alongside our
own direct sales channel, and
• Furthering innovation and maintaining a leadership
position in the field of miniaturised MS, which
continues to be a core driver of our ongoing
commercial strategy
All our activities are aligned to these priorities. Our ‘plug &
play’ usability designs remain unique and the increasing
market acceptance of our chip-based technology will
provide the platform for further growth and differentiation
from competitors. We remain intent on broadening the
application base and enhancing user experience of the
MiD
®
in order to make it the benchtop analytical tool of
choice for chemists. It is my belief that these strengths and
focused strategy continue to put Microsaic Systems in a
strong position to capitalise in an evolving market.
6 Microsaic Systems plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Strategic report – Chief Executive’s review (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Microsaic_pp01_07  26/03/2015  15:49  Page 6 Risk Management 
The Company manages risk and opportunity from an
operational basis, where it assesses and weighs up the
financial effect of risk and opportunity on the goals of the
Company. The Company has set a risk tolerance level of
£50,000 and reviews on a monthly basis those risks above
this level.
The Company’s top five risks/opportunities at 31 December
2014 were:
Risks
Risk rating Risk rating 
Description Risk pre-mitigation Mitigating action post-mitigation
HIGH MEDIUM/LOW
HIGH MEDIUM/LOW
MEDIUM LOW
MEDIUM/LOW LOW
Opportunity
Opportunity rating Opportunity rating
Description Opportunity pre-mitigation Mitigating action post-mitigation
HIGH MEDIUM/LOW
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of
Directors on 20 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Colin Jump
Chief Executive Officer
Failing to deliver on
customer expectations
The risk is that
Microsaic would lose
an important customer
Investment in R&D and
service teams to ensure
customer expectations
are met
Losing competitive
advantage
The risk that a new
entrant to the market
might capture market
share
Investment in strong
commercial presence
and R&D
The theft of intellectual
property
The loss of IP could
lead to a competitor
developing competing
products
The action would
require both physical
product and domain
knowledge, the latter
being protected
contractually
The rate of cash burn in
the commercialisation
phase
That existing cash
resources and access to
cash resources would be
insufficient to cover the
commercialisation
phase and cash runs out
The Company has
good controls in place
to monitor cash
management and
performs long-term
forecasting 
A new OEM
opportunity is missed
The risk that the
Company does not
identify a valuable new
OEM opportunity
Investment in
marketing, promotion
of brand, attendance at
trade shows,
executives’ knowledge
of the market
Microsaic Systems plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 7
Microsaic_pp01_07  26/03/2015  15:49  Page 7
