 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Review
Chief Executive’s review 6
Anite plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
OUR DETERMINATION TO TRANSFORM ANITE INTO
A SOFTWARE-BASED COMPANY IS UNCHANGED –
TECHNOLOGY IS, AND WILL CONTINUE TO BE,
AT THE HEART OF EFFICIENT BUSINESS AND OUR
AMBITION IS, AND WILL CONTINUE TO BE, TO MAKE
ANITE THE LEADING SUPPLIER OF INDUSTRY-SPECIFIC
IT SOLUTIONS IN OUR CHOSEN MARKETS.
We made further progress during the year in our strategy of
transforming Anite into a software-based company which is the leading
supplier of industry-speciﬁc IT solutions in its chosen markets.
This progress was made despite a disappointing performance in
Wireless Handset Testing business.
On the positive side, however, our network testing business, Nemo,
performed strongly, and in November 2007, our handset testing
business entered into a strategic partnership with Agilent Technologies
to deliver market-leading test solutions for the new LTE (4G)
standard. This will result in the launch of a new LTE hardware
platform later this year.
The Travel division performed extremely well and, in the Public
Sector division, Pericles is now proﬁtable and acknowledged to be
a functional revenue and beneﬁts system.
On the minus side, the weakness in handset testing, which we
highlighted at the half year, has continued. Handset testing is
a cyclical business and after several years of strong growth, the
market is currently in a natural lull created by the transition from
3G to 4G technology. That has coincided with a general dip in the
market, particularly in the United States, although the severity
of the downturn was greater than we had initially anticipated.
As a result we undertook a restructuring of the business, including
senior management changes, created ﬁve market-facing business
units, increased use of offshore development facilities and imposed
rigorous cost controls.
I am, however, conﬁdent that the reduction in revenue and
operating proﬁt resulting from the weakness in the handset
testing market is temporary, and that our strategy is sound.
Our determination to transform Anite into a software-based
company is unchanged – technology is, and will continue to be, at the
heart of efﬁcient business and our ambition is, and will continue to
be, to make Anite the leading supplier of industry-speciﬁc IT
solutions in our chosen markets.
Strategic objectives
The longer-term strategic objectives which I set out in our 2007
annual report are also unchanged.
Our commitment to putting Wireless at the heart of our business
continues to be our main strategy. While development and growth
in that business has, for the time being, changed pace a little, the
market is still growing and has great potential. In readiness for 4G,
the Wireless division is currently focusing the majority of its
investment on the R&D phase to enable it to meet the requirements
of what is expected to be the dominant 4G standard, LTE (Long
Term Evolution). In conjunction with this we have signed
agreements with the early developers of LTE and, to date, have
four collaborative arrangements in place, including those with
NXP Semiconductors (NXP) and LG Electronics (LG), which will
strengthen the development of our new LTE products. Meanwhile,
our network testing business continues to beneﬁt from operators’
technical upgrades and a broader geographic spread.
Clearly, we will continue to drive organic growth in all our operations,
to focus on increasing our revenue and earnings, improving margins,
and maintaining strong operational cash ﬂow. As part of our dedication
to achieving that, we are becoming more of a global business.
While operating in other economies brings some challenges – such
as ﬂuctuations in exchange rates – which affect our business and
which are outside our control, they are outweighed by the tremendous
opportunities that being an international business creates.
The success of our more recent acquisitions, Nemo and Invenova,
encourages us to continue to look for businesses in our core markets
– particularly in network testing – which will enable us to increase
our geographic presence, as well as adding to the range of products
and technology we offer. Fixed-line operators are adopting
WiMAX technology to give users of
laptops easier access to high-speed
broadband. WiMAX complements the
services provided by mobile operators
and existing wireless networks and
eliminates the need to ﬁnd a hotspot.
Review
Chief Executive’s review 7
Anite plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Strategic progress
During the past year, we sharpened our focus on the transformation
of our business into a software-based company when we disposed
of two non-core businesses, began to reap beneﬁts from the two
businesses we had bought in the second half of the previous
ﬁnancial year, and signed a collaboration agreement with Agilent
Technologies, which enabled us to cease development of our own
hardware platform (Nevis).
Disposals In july 2007, we sold the last of our European IT services
businesses, Anite Deutschland, for £8m, and in February 2008 a
small Finnish business, Anite Travel Systems (Carus), for £1m.
Acquisitions Invenova, a smaller business acquired in january 2007,
brought WiMAX testing into the group. Now fully integrated into
the Wireless division, it has given us a foothold in the wireless
broadband test systems market and enabled us to add many of the
major WiMAX developers to our customer base.
Nemo, which we acquired in November 2006, and which added
network testing to our Wireless business, is also helping to increase
our geographic presence – its biggest potential growth areas are
Asia, particularly India, the Middle East (where we opened an ofﬁce
in Dubai in August 2007), Latin America, the CIS countries and
Africa. Nemo tools enable network operators to check the quality
of their networks regularly, to verify coverage, and to deal with
problems such as dropped calls and poor voice quality. They also
enable the effectiveness of new services, such as video streaming,
to be tested and measured.
Our markets
Anite operates in three clearly-deﬁned markets: Wireless, Travel
and Public Sector.
Wireless Anite provides specialist systems and software which
enable manufacturers of mobile phones and network equipment to
bring their new products to market quickly, WiMAX providers to test
their coverage, and service providers to optimise their networks.
Handset testing works in three stages: our software enables
manufacturers ﬁrst, to test the viability of new products; second,
to test products’ conformance – to prove that they meet the
rigorous standards set by the network operators and industry
regulators; and third, to test their interoperability – their ability to
communicate with other devices and networks. Our partnership
with Agilent Technologies gives us the ability to supply customers
with a scalable platform to test all three stages, rather than having
to use a variety of different hardware platforms to do the same job.
The Wireless business is driven by innovation (new technology,
the proliferation of new types of handset, and new devices).
The next generation 4G (LTE), will offer huge beneﬁts to consumers
by providing high-speed access to data and a true mobile
broadband experience. It will offer equally big beneﬁts to operators
by enabling them to make more efﬁcient use of the spectrum –
and bring new and existing services to consumers more rapidly.
Several of the leading operators have already committed to LTE, and
have asked to see engineering samples by the end of 2008. In the
early days of a new technology, such as LTE, developers of user
equipment need to work with a test solution partner to verify their
designs. This collaboration involves alignment of standards,
advanced test tools, and the provision of early test capability. In
effect, through these relationships, Anite is pioneering the eco-
system needed to make LTE happen. We have already signed up four
agreements with leading operators/equipment manufacturers as
collaboration partners – including NXP and LG to help us to develop
our LTE test solutions in conjunction with Agilent Technologies.
We expect our WiMAX business to grow, as ﬁxed-line operators
adopt the technology to enable them to offer subscribers easier
access to high-speed broadband on laptops – rather than having
to rely on hotspots – thereby complementing the services provided
by mobile operators and existing wireless networks. The world’s
leading chip maker, Intel, is now integrating WiMAX capability
into many of its products. Review
Chief Executive’s review 8
Anite plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Our network testing business provides measurement tools that
enable network operators to verify the initial radio plan and network
coverage during roll-out, to troubleshoot problem areas, including
dropped calls, poor voice quality and indoor coverage during
operation, and to test the effect of new services, such as video
streaming, on existing networks. Investment in R&D is, therefore,
essential to ensure that it is ﬁrst-to-market with the latest
technologies. As a leading vendor of test-drive solutions, we have
global agreements in place with several large mobile operators
and network vendors. A focus on after-sales support, through
49 local distributors on three continents, makes our test-drive
solutions product a compelling choice in the market.
Travel Anite is a leading provider of travel technology solutions for
tour operators, low cost airlines, and ferry and holiday park operators
in the UK and Europe. Customers can choose to license our
products, manage the system themselves, or – as many do – take
advantage of our transaction fee based service where we provide
hosting and 24x7 system availability from our secure data centre.
In last year’s annual report, we said we had increased our
investment in our @comRes reservation system. A browser-based
solution, @comRes combines content management, reservations
and customer relationship management for internet bookings, call
centre reservations and fast-search facilities. In addition, we have
successfully developed the capabilities of @comRes to offer further
applications, such as supplier connectivity and procurement
facilities, which form part of our @com eBusiness suite.
During this ﬁnancial year, our belief in the value of the system has
been justiﬁed. At the beginning of April 2008, @comRes went live at
TUI AG, the largest tour operator in Germany, on time and on
budget – completing the ﬁrst phase of this project. Anite’s software
enables TUI AG to manage bookings through more than 9,400 retail
outlets to 180 destinations throughout the world. Once all the TUI
AG brands are live, @comRes will manage several million passengers
per year.
Superbreak Mini Holidays is one of the latest customers to adopt
@comRes. With more than 1million bookings a year, Superbreak is
the market leader in the provision of UK and European short breaks.
The implementation of @comRes will enable this specialist tour
operator to run its operations on new technology, providing a more
ﬂexible solution to offer improved marketing services to its
customers and sell holidays faster and more effectively
The consolidation in the UK travel market conﬁrms the wisdom of
us looking to expand internationally and we have already opened an
ofﬁce in Cologne, Germany, to aid us in that endeavour. We focus on
providing excellent service to our customers, maintaining
relationships with them and delivering solutions which meet their
needs. We are now marketing @comRes and the @com eBusiness
suite, which are constantly developing, together with the services
we offer, to this market.
Superbreak Mini Holidays, the market leader in UK
and European short breaks, has recently adopted our
@comRes reservation system to enable them to sell
holidays more effectively.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
We entered into a strategic
partnership with Agilent Technologies
in November 2007 . As a result,
a new LTE hardware platform will be
launched later this year. Review
Chief Executive’s review 9
Anite plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Public Sector
Anite is a market leader in software and solutions for local
government, including document management, social care, housing
management and the collection of local taxes and beneﬁts. We work
with 70% of local authorities, and also supply software and services
to the police and a number of national government departments
through our Secure Information Solutions division (SIS).
Local authorities are constantly under pressure to provide better,
and better value-for-money, services. Our transformation products,
such as document management and mobile working, help the public
sector to cut costs by improving efﬁciency and effectiveness. Our
solutions also help them to make information more accessible and
transparent, and to share information with other services where
necessary. SIS supplies security solutions to all UK police forces. In
October 2007, it was awarded a three-year £3.6m contract to
support the national Automatic Number Plate Recognitions (ANPR)
system, which positions Anite as a major supplier of national police
information systems.
In the past ﬁnancial year, we continued our response to the
separation of local government services for adults and children
with the launch of our new adults solution supporting the central
government drive towards personalisation and social care.
Within Public Sector, the year’s greatest success was the successful
implementation of Pericles, our browser-based revenues and
beneﬁts solution, at 35 local authorities. Front-line staff and
management are reporting that Pericles is streamlining the process
of delivering more co-ordinated services.
In what is generally considered to be a tough market, the Public
Sector division is performing well.
Looking ahead
In our drive to continue creating long-term shareholder value, we
will maintain our focus on investing in growth markets, on meeting
customers’ needs and on maximising opportunities from advances
in technology.
In our Wireless division, we will continue to take advantage of
growth in emerging regions and from advances in technology, will
maintain our investment in development and focus on increasing
our sales to network operators. We believe that the current negative
trends in demand for 2G and 3G systems will continue throughout
the current year. We will commence shipments of our 4G(LTE)
systems towards the end of 2008, although we do not expect
to see the full beneﬁts come through to the bottom line until
the 2009/2010 ﬁnancial year. We will also continue to look for
acquisitions, particularly in the network testing market, which
is fragmented and is likely to consolidate.
A strong order book indicates that the Travel division will continue
to make good progress, although the price of fuel and the risk of
recession is of increasing concern to tour operators. @comRes is
making the progress we predicted, and we are conﬁdent that it will
build on its initial success. We expect the division to increase its
business outside the UK in the coming year, particularly in Germany
and northern Europe.
The Public Sector division is now in good shape. It is expected
to continue to improve its overall performance led by our Local
Government business.
Taking the seasonality of our Wireless business into account, the
current year has had a satisfactory start with trading ahead of the
same period last year.
Steve Rowley Chief Executive
Anite’s @comRes reservation system
enables Tui Deutschland to manage
bookings through more than 9,400
retail outlets, to 180 destinations
throughout the world.
70% of local authorities use Anite’s
software and solutions to collect local
taxes, to manage the payment of beneﬁts,
and to manage housing and social care.
Our browser-based revenues and beneﬁts
solution, Pericles, streamlines the process
of delivering co-ordinated services at 35
local authorities.
