 Midatech Pharma plc | Annual report & Accounts 2014 06
Overview
Chairman’s Review
“ 2014 was a transformational  
year for Midatech.”
Rolf Stahel 
Non-executive Chairman
2014 was a transformational year for Midatech. Since the 
inception of Midatech Limited in 2000, the Company has 
tested its gold nano-particle technology in a broad range of 
therapeutic areas. In 2013, the Board decided that the Company 
would benefit from building on the significant experience gained 
and brought in Dr Jim Phillips to set the strategy going forward.
The first step was to strengthen the management team by 
bringing in a new Chief Operating Officer, Dr Craig Cook, and 
a new Finance Director, Nick Robbins-Cherry, both joining 
early in 2014. Jim had worked with both Craig and Nick in 
the past and knew they would help him execute on the new, 
commercially focussed strategy.
This strategy was developed during the course of the first 
quarter of 2014 and combined a focus on just three therapeutic 
areas, diabetes, oncology, and ophthalmology/neuroscience with 
a push to expand the Company’s product pipeline through the 
acquisition of later stage assets.
At the beginning of 2014 the Company’s most advanced 
programme was its trans-buccal insulin product, Midaform
TM
, 
developed through a joint venture with the US pharmaceutical 
company Monosol Rx LLC. The highly promising Phase 1 clinical 
data made continuation of this programme a lead focus and this 
is now ready to commence its Phase 2 development in patients 
in 2015.
The second area of focus is in the field of oncology. Earlier 
experimental data had indicated that Midatech’s gold 
nanoparticles (“GNPs”) had the potential to transport 
chemotherapeutics to tumour sites with a high degree of 
specificity. Pre-clinical studies further indicated that GNPs 
would also reach the brain, passing the blood brain barrier. 
The enormous benefits this would bring to cancer patients 
made this an obvious area to develop further. Midatech’s 
oncology programme is working on using its GNP technology 
to transport active ingredients that already exist in the market, 
thereby benefitting the regulatory path and improving the risk 
profile of the projects.
The ever-increasing demand for highly specific drugs and the 
growth into personalised medicine are opening the market 
need for drug delivery that can be precisely targeted and 
released. The potential for Midatech in this market is clear, 
whether in diabetes, oncology or ophthalmology/neuroscience.
Right place and right time
Regardless of its huge potential, many of Midatech’s nano-
technology projects are at an early stage of development 
and are therefore still somewhat risky. The other arm of the 
strategy therefore is to lower the risk profile by acquiring later 
stage assets within the areas of therapeutic focus and that offer 
a good strategic fit.
Cardiff based Q Chip Limited (“Q Chip”) had a number of 
later stage products in its pipeline built around that Company’s 
controlled release technology platform. This product portfolio 
included a number that aligned with Midatech’s chosen 
therapeutic focus areas.
The combination of Q Chip with Midatech has created a well-
balanced and diverse product pipeline that gives the combined 
shareholder base multiple shots on goal and a reasonable 
expectation of having products in the market within the next 
five years.
IPO
Perhaps the most significant development in the year was 
the listing on AIM. The successful roadshow culminated in an 
oversubscribed IPO that allowed the Board to increase the size 
of the funds raised from the £30m targeted to £32m.
2014 has been a very successful year. Aside from the significant 
strategic and operational achievements, financial results have 
ended ahead of expectation in terms of revenue, loss before 
tax and cash expenditure. The Company’s twin technology 
platforms offer a unique combination of highly targeted delivery 
and controlled release of existing therapeutics, and looking 
forward, the highly significant product milestones on the near 
horizon have the potential to make 2015 a very exciting year  
for Midatech.
I would like to thank our shareholders for their support and the 
Board, management and staff for their continuing hard work and 
commitment to Midatech.
Rolf Stahel
Chairman
16 April 2015
