 Midatech Pharma plc | Annual report & Accounts 2014 07
Chief Executive’s Statement
“ 2014 was also a good year for revenue, with 
our current service partnerships helping to 
generate £0.73m pro forma revenue.”
Dr Jim Phillips
Chief Executive Officer
Dear Shareholder 
The exciting year under review has seen Midatech make great 
strides in advancing the Group towards becoming a specialty 
pharmaceutical business, progressing a development portfolio 
of multiple programmes towards commercialisation. There 
has been a significant expansion of the Senior Management 
team’s capabilities, the successful AIM IPO in December and 
the focussing of the Group’s pipeline strategy into the three 
core areas of diabetes, oncology and neuroscience including 
ophthalmology. The Group has two routes to commercialisation: 
licensing out and own product sales, which offers multiple shots 
on goal, a de-risked strategy and a significant amount of value 
potential for shareholders and patients.
The year also saw the acquisition of Q Chip Limited, bringing 
a complementary technology and two advanced product 
candidates within two of the three core areas described above. 
This demonstrated Midatech’s continuing hunger to enhance 
value and deliver results as a dynamic management team. 
The Company ended 2014 with £30.33m of cash, having raised 
£32.00m in the IPO process where we were able to attract key 
new investors resulting in an oversubscribed IPO and extension of 
funds raised.
2014 was also a good year for revenue, with our current service 
partnerships helping to generate £0.73m pro forma revenue in 
aggregate for the Midatech and Q Chip businesses for the year 
(£0.57m was pre acquisition), ahead of market expectations,  
as the Group booked more work through the second half of 
the year.
The Group’s two technologies which enable the targeted 
delivery of currently marketed and approved drugs to “the right 
place at the right time” have the potential to transform many 
areas of medical treatment; by reducing toxic doses required to 
kill cancer cells, the ability to move drugs more efficiently into 
the brain and, via our diabetes joint venture MidaSol, enabling 
needle free insulin (or other hormone) delivery via a strip in 
the mouth (which is similar to a breath freshener strip). Our 
projects are, so far, all on track to potentially deliver substantial 
value over the coming years and they all use existing, well 
understood pharmaceutical ingredients – so reducing the risk of 
products failing.
The Group also completed a major upgrade to its 
manufacturing plant in Bilbao, Spain, on time and on budget, 
meaning we can now start to produce sterile products. In 
addition to this we were selected by the European Union’s 
Horizon 20:20 programme to lead a consortium of our 
existing partners with €7.9m of European grant funding to 
develop the commercial scale manufacturing operations for 
our “nano” products. 
Outlook
During 2015, we will continue to execute on our three-
pronged strategy of driving early revenue growth through the 
service partnership model, whilst driving forward the clinical 
development of our own pipeline, further developing our 
technology and continuing to look for attractive acquisition 
targets to enable us to more rapidly build our revenues and 
presence in key geographies. 
I believe that the prospects for our business are good for the 
coming year and I am grateful for the exceptional contribution 
of all our employees and international collaborators that has 
helped transform Midatech over the last 12 months into a leading, 
international, emerging specialty pharmaceutical business.
Dr Jim Phillips
Chief Executive Officer 
16 April 2015
