 6
Anite
Annual report and accounts 2009 Chief Executive’s review
Section B
Review
Overview of the year
In my ﬁrst review as Chief Executive, I am delighted to be able to
report that Anite is in a robust condition. In what was an extremely
challenging economic environment, our Wireless and Travel Divisions
both performed well in the year, while the sale of our Public Sector
Division was a further demonstration of our commitment to
refocusing our business.
The divisional results were achieved despite the ongoing
consolidation among our customers in the travel industry and the
long development phase of 4G – the next-generation mobile phone
technology – having an impact on our revenue. In addition, the sale
of our Public Sector Division enabled us to reduce our bank
borrowings, to focus our resources on our core businesses, and to
pay a special dividend to our shareholders. As a result of the sale the
Group now employs fewer people and has lower sales, but margins
and proﬁts are higher than they were ﬁve years ago and our balance
sheet is much stronger.
Our revenue and operating proﬁt beneﬁted from signiﬁcant currency
movements during the year, volatility which directly resulted from the
global economic crisis. Currency and interest changes also, however,
had an impact on the value of the Company’s investments and
hedging liabilities. In short, the sterling value of our underlying
euro-denominated asset – represented by our Network Testing
business – increased, but was matched by a rise in the total value of
our derivative ﬁnancial liabilities taken out at the time of its purchase.
Delivering shareholder value continues to be imperative: during the
year we returned cash to shareholders through a special dividend,
increased the ordinary dividend, cancelled shares through a share
consolidation and began buying back shares.
Our markets
Anite is structured into two market-facing divisions: Wireless and
Travel. Wireless is further structured into two operations: Handset
Testing and Network Testing. Handset Testing provides specialist
systems and software to enable mobile phone manufacturers to
bring new handsets and data cards to market quickly. Network Testing
provides a range of systems which enable mobile phone operators
to test the efﬁciency and effectiveness of their networks, as well as
of different makes of handset, in live situations. Travel provides
industry-leading reservation systems to tour operators, airline
consolidators, and cruise, ferry and rail companies.
Wireless
Handset Testing
Our Handset Testing business, based in Fleet, Hampshire, provides
customers with a single expandable platform to test new handsets’
viability, conformance with industry standards and ability to
interoperate with multiple networks and other devices.
The main drivers of growth in Handset Testing are the constant
changes and improvements in mobile phone technology and the
number of new handset models which are launched each year.
These, combined with the different conﬁgurations used by network
operators, mean that before mobile phones are ready to be sold they
must go through development testing to ensure functionality;
conformance testing to ensure they meet industry standards; and
interoperability testing (IOT) to ensure they are able to communicate
with multiple networks and other devices. Older technologies do not
become redundant when new generations are introduced and any
new testing regime must also incorporate the means to test them.
Our strongest market has historically been in conformance testing,
but we have recently strengthened our position in IOT and are
working with our hardware partner, Agilent, on the development of
our new system for 4G (LTE) testing. Our initial system, which has
secured early market position with key LTE customers, will be
replaced by an Agilent hardware-based system in due course.
Full functionality will be progressively introduced during 2009
and enhanced during 2010. In common with all our competitors,
the very nature of this leading-edge development programme
means that risks remain around the timing and delivery of the
completed products.
Performance
We achieved a growth in proﬁts this year, despite a minor decline in
revenue from legacy products and an increase in development costs
for our 4G testing solutions. Since a large proportion of Handset
Testing’s revenue is in US dollars and euros – while the majority of its
cost base is in sterling – the business beneﬁted from the appreciation
of the US dollar and the euro against sterling.
During the year, we made good progress in the development of
our software for testing 4G devices and are already supplying key
customers with our own initial systems. We also restructured the
business: new management and sales executives have resulted in the
business becoming more market facing and we have now established
regional Directors in each major geographic area: Europe and the
Middle East, Asia and the Americas.
“We continue to execute our strategy and I am confident
that the work we will undertake during the current financial
year will help us to build foundations for future growth,
to ride out the prevailing economic storm and to deliver
shareholder value.”
Christopher Humphrey
Chief Executive 7
Anite
Annual report and accounts 2009
Section B
Review
Our wireless
customers include:
LTE (Long Term Evolution)
The introduction of next-generation devices (such as smart
phones and data dongles) has created a rapidly increasing demand
for data services: it is predicted that over the next ﬁve years mobile
data trafﬁc will increase 100-fold. Network operators face a limit
on how much trafﬁc existing networks can support, yet competition
from WiFi hotspots and wired broadband limits their ability to
charge for data transmission at rates comparable to those for voice
calls. This clearly represents a long-term threat to their proﬁtability.
As a result, the network operators are constantly seeking faster,
more efﬁcient, and cheaper ways to deliver data.
By the end of 2007 , it was clear that 4G LTE (Long Term Evolution)
had gained wide acceptance as the most effective and universal
technology to deliver the high data capacity that is needed.
LTE enables network operators to support more subscribers on
their spectrum allocations at a reduced cost per bit. To date,
31 major operators around the globe, including industry giants
AT&T, Verizon and Vodafone, have committed to LTE for their
4G networks from 2010.
Anite has backed LTE since its inception and continues to invest
strongly in products to support its introduction. Working with key
mobile equipment manufacturers, our initial LTE testing solution is
already being used to test around ten devices. We expect to be able
to supply our customers with our proprietary testing system during
the current ﬁnancial year and for LTE to begin to make a signiﬁcant
impact on our revenue during 2010/2011.
Trafﬁc volume Network cost
(existing technologies)
Revenue
Proﬁtability
Network cost
(LTE)
Time
Data dominated Voice dominated
The case for LTE
Network operators
require low cost/bit
technologies to
remain profitable 8
Anite
Annual report and accounts 2009 Chief Executive’s review
Section B
Review
We also strengthened the Handset Testing management team with
a number of senior appointments, including Mike Bonin, formerly
Managing Director of TEMS, the network testing division of Ericsson,
as Managing Director.
Strategy
Our objective is to complete our basic products for testing 4G
devices and to supply customers with a common platform which has
been customised to their particular needs for development testing,
conformance testing and interoperability testing.
Outlook
The current year will be affected by the continuing cyclical lull
between testing different generations of handsets and by a one-off
customer-led additional £4m investment that we are making in our
LTE solutions. Following the strong take-up of smart phones and the
consequent growth of data revenues there is undoubtedly a very
strong case for LTE rather than any other technology and, by the end
of the current ﬁnancial year, we expect to have made further
signiﬁcant progress in the development of our offer and to have
generated additional revenues from LTE in the ﬁnal quarter.
It is currently not possible to predict the rate of growth and
customers’ take-up of next-generation devices, but we are conﬁdent
that our proprietary testing equipment will be in demand. While we
do not expect to see a signiﬁcant return on our investment in the
technology until 2010/201 1,it will ultimately broaden our market and
will conﬁrm our position as one of the leaders in testing 4G devices.
Network Testing
Our Network Testing business (Nemo), based in Oulu, Finland, provides
the measurement tools to enable mobile network operators to verify,
test and improve coverage and quality; to test the effect of new services
on existing networks; and to compare the performance of different
manufacturers’ mobile phones in the same environments to enable
mobile network operators to choose the best handsets to endorse.
Performance
In a challenging market, we deﬁed the general trend and improved
our market position and proﬁtability by winning new customers.
The introduction of 3G in China brought new business, and we also
increased our market share elsewhere in Asia and in other emerging
markets. Nevertheless, following the general decline in economic
conditions, the second half of the year was characterised by
customers reducing their operating budgets and making short-term
deferrals of expenditure.
We ﬁnished the year with an increase in proﬁts, which, as elsewhere in
Anite’s business, was helped by the translation of euro-denominated
proﬁts into sterling.
Strategy
We focus on winning and retaining customers by being ﬁrst with
new technology, by providing excellent after-sales service and
technical support, and by maintaining strong relationships direct
with customers or through local distributors on three continents.
Outlook
In the short term, we predict that the visibility of sales and
customers’ budgets will become more uncertain and this, combined
with the recent trend of a weakening euro, is likely to result in the
current ﬁnancial year being more challenging than that of 2008/2009.
In the longer term, we expect growth to continue in developing
countries, particularly in the emerging markets of Africa, India and
Latin America.
In common with Handset Testing, each evolution of technology
creates a demand for new testing and, as mobile phone use
expands around the world and technology continues to develop, the
longer-term prospects for our Network Testing business are positive.
Travel
Our Travel Division, based in Slough, Berkshire, is a leading supplier
of reservation, content management and Customer Relationship
Management (CRM) software for holiday companies, airline
consolidators and packaged holiday operators.
Performance
We continued to make good progress in our relationship with TUI
Germany, now Europe’s leading travel group, during the year. We are
putting into live operation the second phase of our contract with the
company – implementing @comRes reservations software across
its operations in central Europe – and have recently been contracted
by TUI to build the third phase. In addition, since the year end we
have signed an initial contract for @comRes with REWE, Germany’s
third-largest tour operator.
Signiﬁcant projects in this business tend to come in uneven
blocks and our results for the year should be viewed against the
exceptionally high value multi-year orders taken in the previous year.
Revenue and proﬁt in 2008/2009 were better than expected, but
were inﬂuenced by a number of one-off events. Balkan Holidays has successfully completed its
migration to Anite’s @comRes booking platform.
“We believe the system offers us the ﬂexibility to
further grow our business in the challenging and
changing market that faces us. The transactional
cost structure of Anite’s @com bureau service also
allows us to accurately manage costs and relate
them to our actual business volumes.”
9
Anite
Annual report and accounts 2009
Section B
Review
@comRes
Anite’s browser-based @comRes software is redeﬁning
technology for the travel market and supporting two
key developments.
First, the change in the way people take and book their holidays
which means that travel operators need a technology platform
which can offer both the traditional package holidays and support
the trend towards bespoke short breaks.
As a result, travel companies are demanding an increasingly
sophisticated technology platform which can deliver personalised
offers with relevant up-sell and cross-sell capabilities consistently
delivered across a range of their distribution channels, including
travel agents, call centres and, increasingly, the internet.
Many consumers now use the internet to seek a wide range
of offers, comparing prices and creating their own holidays
on-line. These changes have placed increasing pressure on travel
operators’ margins which, in turn, has led to recent
consolidation across the industry.
Now, the combination of the economic downturn and high
fuel costs is encouraging holidaymakers to return to the
security of holidays, organised by the major ATOL
licensed holiday brands. This supports Anite’s strategy of
positioning @comRes for the mid to upper tier of global
travel companies.
Second, the major vertically-integrated groups (VIGs),
who own their own ﬂights, accommodation and
distribution need to reduce costs by streamlining their
end-to-end process from product contracting through to
distribution. Anite has invested heavily in this area in the
last 12months tightly integrating @comRes with its
mobile contracting (MCS) and Brochure Pricing (BPS)
solutions. This combination of technology is increasingly
supporting the business case for change in these VIGs.
TUI Travel plc’s Central European Source
Market is undertaking a three-year
migration programme onto the Anite
Travel @comRes platform. It is being
implemented in three phases for a
number of countries, including Germany,
Switzerland and Austria.
RESERVATIONS
CRM
CONTENT MANAGEMENT
FINANCE
@com eBusiness Suite
@com eBusiness Suite
PROCUREMENT
SCHEDULED FLIGHT NET DEALS
PRICE MODELLING
CONTRACTING
DISTRIBUTION
WEB SERVICES IN-HOUSE
WEB
SUPPLIER GATEWAY
GDS • LCC ACCOMMODATION
FERRY & TRAIN
MISCELLANEOUS
CREDIT CARD AUTHORISATION
RESORT MANAGEMENT
@comRes
We believe we have secured a market-leading position in
terms of functionality, performance and scalability, allowing
lower cost mainstream technology hardware and power to
be deployed, while enabling access to computer resources over
the internet (cloud computing) and charging for software on a
usage basis (SaaS). This has been borne out by our system’s
enthusiastic take-up by leading travel operators, including
Europe’s largest travel group, TUI.
We continue to design reﬁnements to the software and, in looking
at travel as part of a larger leisure market, are considering what
other types of transactional based opportunities might beneﬁt
from our technology and its ﬂexibility. “I expect the current trading year to be challenging,
particularly in the first half, given the impact of our additional
investment in LTE and the effect of customer changes in
Travel. The longer-term outlook for our new travel system
and its international market, and for the growing adoption
of LTE technology is, however, very positive.”
Christopher Humphrey
Chief Executive
10
Anite
Annual report and accounts 2009 Chief Executive’s review
Section B
Review
The economic climate put pressure on end consumers’ disposable
incomes with the result that travel operators were also under
pressure. In September 2008 our customer XL, which had been
the UK’s third-largest tour operator, went into administration.
In 2007, major consolidation took place in the UK when Thomson
(TUI) and First Choice merged, and Thomas Cook acquired MyTravel.
TUI achieved synergies by bringing Thomson and First Choice
together and moving them onto the reservations system which was
already in use at Thomson, and Thomas Cook moved the MyTravel
business to the Thomas Cook system. Since First Choice and MyTravel
were both our customers these changes had an impact on our results.
The termination of the MyTravel contract added £2.3m to proﬁt, but
the loss of the two companies as clients will affect future revenues.
Since 2004 the Travel business unit had supplied managed IT services
to Norwich Union (NU) for one of its ﬁnancial services products; this
was non-core business for us which had grown from a small, initial
contract. At the end of the ﬁnancial year, NU moved this product
platform to another ﬁnancial services provider. This, too, will reduce
revenue and proﬁt in 2009/2010.
We re-energised our Travel business when we strengthened its
management team during the year and appointed Mike Kingswood,
formerly Managing Director of our Public Sector business,
as Managing Director. This has not only improved leadership,
but has also revitalised the division’s strategic direction.
Strategy
Over the past three years we have invested heavily in @comRes,
our comprehensive and versatile browser-based reservations system.
Our objective is to capitalise on its ability to handle ﬁxed and ﬂexible
packaging, component-based travel, dynamic packaging and all
specialist operations from a single system, to enable us to continue
our overseas expansion. In the short term, we foresee our growth
as being in Germany, and central and eastern Europe. We already
operate a sales ofﬁce in Cologne, Germany, and are strengthening
our resources in that country.
In addition, we plan to migrate customers who use our legacy ATOP
system to @comRes, and also to change our revenue model to one
in which we license the system to customers on an annual basis. This
will have beneﬁts on both sides: it will reduce the initial capital cost
for customers and will augment our recurring revenue in the future.
Outlook
Business failures and consolidation are undoubtedly putting the travel
industry under pressure. On a pro-forma basis, we estimate that the
effect of the one-off customer events detailed above has reduced
Travel’s revenues by £11m,and operating proﬁts by £6m on an
annualised basis. We aim partly to mitigate this reduction through
new business and the migration of existing customers from ATOP
to @comRes.
In the medium term we are conﬁdent that we will be able to
accelerate the installation rate of our increasingly conﬁgurable
and feature-rich @comRes product at customers in the UK and
overseas. It is scalable and robust, and we have a proven reputation
for developing and installing software that works. We believe that
customers’ increasing conﬁdence in our @comRes software will
enable us to maximise the shareholder value that is inherent in
this product.
Group strategy
Our longer-term strategy is unchanged – to put Wireless at the heart
of our business – but we are currently committed to operating two
successful divisions: Wireless and Travel. We will continue to look at
world markets for the organic growth of both businesses, to improve
margins and to maintain strong operational cash ﬂow.
Equally, we will continue to invest in the development of our market-
leading software, and will take advantage of our strong balance sheet
and ﬁnancial position to invest in carefully-considered complementary
acquisitions, particularly in the network testing market.
Group outlook
I expect the current trading year to be challenging, particularly in the
ﬁrst half, given the impact of our additional investment in LTE and the
effect of customer changes in Travel. The longer-term outlook for our
new travel system and its international market, and for the growing
adoption of LTE technology is, however, very positive.
We continue to execute our strategy and I am conﬁdent that the work
we will undertake during the current ﬁnancial year will help us to
build foundations for future growth, to ride out the prevailing
economic storm and to deliver shareholder value.
Christopher Humphrey
Chief Executive
30 June 2009
