 5 Business review
Anite is well positioned to grow as  
our markets continue to improve
Christopher Humphrey
Chief Executive’s review
Overview
Our business has emerged strongly from the economic downturn, 
both operationally and financially. 
The economic environment – which, particularly in the first half  
of last year, had restricted customers’ spending – continued to 
improve. Following a strong end to the year, revenue and adjusted 
operating profit were both well ahead of market expectations. While 
we are not complacent about the economic outlook, the market has 
undoubtedly improved. We have an advantage in that our business 
is geographically diversified: our Wireless customers are based 
throughout the world, from the US to China, and Travel’s principal 
customers are throughout Europe.
In the Wireless division, there was not only an increase in what 
customers were prepared to spend on legacy – 2G and 3G – 
products, but there was also increased investment in LTE. 
Handset Testing revenue growth came from our core product area  
of Conformance Testing (CT) and also the newer product areas of 
Development Testing (DT) and Interoperability Testing (IOT). In our 
2010 Annual Report, I explained how we had decided to develop our 
own LTE hardware platform, the Anite 9000 Mobile Test Accelerator 
– this product was launched in December 2009. It has been 
subsequently upgraded in the current year and has been well received 
by our customers. This, combined with other R&D investment over 
the year, means we are well positioned for future growth.
In our Network Testing business we acquired a new product line, 
thereby extending both our product portfolio and customer base.
Our Travel business, which over recent years had lost customers through 
business failures and continuing market consolidation, has weathered 
the storm and is now in much better shape. It is now firmly 
established with TUI, Europe’s largest travel operator. This relationship 
was further strengthened when Travel signed a contract with the UK 
and Ireland division of the TUI business at the end of the year.
Strategy
Group strategy
Our overall goal is to deliver shareholder value by concentrating  
on our Wireless division which exhibits good long-term growth 
potential due to strong growth drivers and market position.
Our Travel business is in the middle of a transition between older 
legacy technology and a new more flexible and scalable platform. 
We look to build further value in this business through this transition.
Travel strategy
Travel provides reservation systems for tour operators, ferry and 
cruise companies. The systems we provide are complex, substantial 
and provide functionality that is critical to our customers’ operations. 
Once implemented they generally remain in situ for many years 
requiring continued support and enhancement to cope with the 
customers’ changing business requirements. Each implementation 
typically includes a considerable bespoke element to enable it  
to meet specific requirements. As a result our relationships with 
customers are generally very long-term and built on our deep 
industry (or domain) knowledge.
In the past we have supplied, hosted and maintained systems for 
customers. As the leisure travel industry has become more complex 
and companies have consolidated, there is an increasing trend for 
operators to run their own systems in-house. We are, therefore, 
adapting our business towards a more traditional software and 
support model. Our @comRes product is the only leisure travel 
reservation system with the flexibility and capability to cope  
with the volume of enquiries and bookings experienced by the  
large tour operators.
Our strategy in Travel is, in part, to maintain and develop our 
products to exploit our technological leadership in leisure travel 
reservation systems, which service the mid- and upper-tier tour 
operators in international markets. To this end, most of the 
additional product functionality that will accelerate growth can  
be developed in-house. There are, however, certain small product 
extensions that could be acquired in order to save time and expense, 
creating a faster delivery to market.
The nature of the leisure travel industry and the products we now 
provide, offer us the opportunity to expand our market from our historic 
UK focus to other markets in Europe, in particular, Germany. We will 
build on our success in creating UK and central European versions  
of @comRes for TUI and will continue with our long-term plans for 
migrating customers from our legacy ATOP system to @comRes.
