 ANITE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
06
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
of Handset Testing revenue. Here, customers 
invested in LTE 4G equipment to support the 
early stages of the mandatory testing phase 
of LTE 4G devices. In addition, they bought 
2G/3G products to test the backwards 
compatibility of devices, rather than using 
existing systems which they have tended to 
keep exclusively for 2G/3G devices. Growth 
also came from our second major growth 
driver, Interoperability Testing (IOT), which 
also covers 2G/3G and LTE 4G. Overall sales 
of LTE 4G technology products grew by 
102%, to 44% of Handset Testing revenue, 
helping drive overall Handset Testing revenue 
growth of 54% and more than doubling 
its operating proﬁts.
In a highly technological market, we further 
established our proprietary LTE 4G hardware 
platform, Anite 9000, and continued to 
develop our products and strategy to support 
the next generation of mobile technology, 
beyond LTE 4G to LTE-Advanced (LTE-A), 
which we expect to accelerate over the 
next few years.
Although Network Testing’s operating proﬁt 
was below that of last year, its order intake 
and revenue increased – particularly in 
the second half of the year – in what are 
extremely competitive markets. With the 
exception of the US – which was an early 
adopter of LTE 4G – network roll-outs  
are expected to take off around the world 
over the next few years. Last year’s 
acquisition of the Invex product lines 
expanded our portfolio of scanner and 
benchmarking products, although the 
later-than-planned launch of the updated 
benchmarking platform pushed sales into 
the second half of the year and that, in turn, 
held back proﬁts.
OVERVIEW
Anite had an exceptional year – revenue and 
proﬁt both increased substantially – and  
we made good operational progress in all 
three businesses. 
While the continuing uncertainties 
surrounding the global economy are likely  
to result in a more challenging economic 
environment over the next few years, the 
underlying drivers for our Wireless division – 
the inexorable increase in mobile data and 
smartphones and in the complexity of devices 
and networks as new technology is introduced 
– will continue, and will undoubtedly create 
more requirements for testing. To ensure that 
we will be ready to take advantage of the 
opportunity this offers, our total R&D spend 
during the year was a record £17m, a 32% 
increase year-on-year.
That investment, combined with the 
commitment and quality of our people, our 
credibility and long-standing relationships 
with major customers, and our rapid response 
to changes in customer and market demand 
will, we believe, ensure that we are well 
placed to deliver sustainable growth over 
the long term.
PERFORMANCE
The principal driver of the growth in revenue 
and proﬁt that resulted in our improved 
margins was the strong demand in the 
Handset Testing business for LTE 4G systems, 
as well as a higher-than-expected demand for 
2G/3G products.
Growth in Handset Testing came from two 
product areas. First from Conformance 
Testing (CT), which continues to be our key 
product area and accounted for around half  
The past year was an exceptional one for the Group, driven by the 
growth in revenue and proﬁts in the Handset Testing business.
CHRISTOPHER HUMPHREY 
Chief Executive
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Our Travel business continued to make good 
progress and successfully negotiated the 
difﬁcult market conditions that existed across 
Europe. During the year, it diversiﬁed its 
customer base when it won another major 
order for @com – from one of the world’s 
largest tour operators, Thomas Cook Group 
– with the result that @com was further 
endorsed in the eyes of other major 
international tour operators. That is resulting 
in an encouraging sales pipeline across 
Europe and farther aﬁeld. The business  
has increased its order book to £89.6m  
of contracted revenue, has signiﬁcant 
longer-term opportunities with TUI and 
Thomas Cook, and is better positioned  
for future growth.  07
OUR STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
set and executing our product strategy to 
support the next generation of technology.
In addition, we expect to build further value 
into our Travel business. We will achieve this 
by continuing to evolve its business model: 
ﬁrst, by transitioning customers from legacy 
technology to its new, more ﬂexible and 
scalable platform; and second, by delivering 
more large implementations with associated 
multi-year support contracts that will provide 
long-term recurring revenue, proﬁt visibility 
and growth.
OUTLOOK
The past year was an exceptional one for the 
Group, driven by the growth in revenue and 
proﬁts in the Handset Testing business. 
Looking ahead, the fundamental drivers 
for all of our businesses continue to be 
favourable. This gives us conﬁdence in our 
ability to achieve future growth although, 
given that the Wireless pipeline visibility is 
inherently low, we remain conservative with 
our guidance.
The sustained growth in the mobile 
telecommunications market will undoubtedly 
create more requirements for testing, and  
our focus and continued investment in R&D 
will, we believe, enable us to maintain our 
technology leadership in Handset Testing.  
In the current year, we expect to beneﬁt 
from both of our key growth engines: the 
continued development of the Conformance 
Test market and also an increase in demand 
for Interoperability Testing. These factors 
are expected to lead to revenue growth 
in Handset Testing in the low to mid teen 
percentage range.
OUR MARKETS
Anite is structured into two market-facing 
divisions: Wireless, which comprises two 
separately managed businesses – Handset 
Testing and Network Testing – and Travel: 
 ● Handset Testing provides specialist 
laboratory-based systems, hardware  
and software to enable manufacturers  
to design new chipsets and devices 
effectively, to bring high-quality devices 
to market quickly, and to enable network 
operators to meet end-customers’ needs 
by ensuring that devices meet their 
quality expectations in real-life situations; 
 ● Network Testing provides the technology 
that enables operators of mobile phone 
networks to test their networks’ 
efﬁciency and effectiveness – and to 
ensure consistently high quality for users 
of mobile devices – by carrying out live 
testing with a wide range of devices; and 
 ● Travel provides reservation and 
administration systems that help 
companies, primarily in the leisure sector, 
to run their businesses more efﬁciently 
and to reduce back ofﬁce costs.
GROUP STRATEGY 
Our overriding objective is to continue to 
deliver shareholder value by focusing on our 
Wireless division where we seek to maintain 
our position as market leader in testing 
solutions. This division has strong growth 
drivers, an equally strong market position and 
exhibits good potential for long-term growth. 
We will continue to grow the Wireless 
division by maintaining technological and 
market leadership, broadening our product 
35%
LTE 4G
In a highly technological market, we further 
established our proprietary LTE 4G hardware 
platform and continued to develop our 
products and strategy  
to support the next  
generation of mobile 
technology, beyond  
LTE 4G to LTE-Advanced. 
£
@com
A major order from Thomas Cook Group, 
one of the world’s largest tour operators, 
further endorsed 
@com in the eyes 
of other major 
international
tour operators.
In Network Testing, we expect mid single 
digit percentage growth in revenue at 
constant currency. We expect the success 
of our benchmarking product to offset any 
impact from competitive pressures and we 
are well positioned to take advantage of 
LTE 4G roll-outs as they accelerate.
We have been transitioning our Travel 
business over the past few years, with the 
objective of building on its strong market 
position and optimising the value of its 
long-term product life cycle. Around 75%  
of our expected revenue for the current year 
is already contracted and the pipeline of 
additional opportunities is encouraging. 
Performance in the current year – in which  
we will focus on delivering the major @com 
implementations that we have contracted  
for over the past two years – is expected 
to be similar to the one just completed, with 
low single digit percentage revenue growth. 
Our businesses have good market positions, 
products and people to pursue multiple 
growth opportunities. We have started  
the current year well, ahead of last year, 
and are well placed to deliver sustainable 
organic growth. 
CHRISTOPHER HUMPHREY
Chief Executive 
2 July 2012
