 02 | Misys plc Annual report 2008
CHAIRMAN’S  
STATEMENT
chAirMAn’s stAteMent
We have seen 12 months of good 
performance from all of our 
businesses and the Company 
is now in much better shape to 
compete and win more.
Sir Dominic Cadbury, Chairman
Is Misys now moving in the right direction?
Absolutely. We have completed the first 
phase of the turnaround successfully and 
the Company is entering a new phase, 
establishing a platform for growth.
Q
A
02 |  Misys plc Annual report 2008 | 03
t his year Misys generated Group revenue  
of £492m up 6% on a like-for-like basis and 
adjusted operating profit of £81m up 37%  
on the prior year . On a statutory basis Group 
revenue is up 5% and operating profit is 
£52m. Adjusted basic earnings per share 
from continuing operations were 12.6p.  
the Board recommends a final dividend  
of 4.95p per share, bringing the full year 
dividend to 7.91p.
Fit to compete
last year’s Annual report reflected the rapid 
and far-reaching changes going on within the 
company. My chairman’s message focused 
on the significant Board and management 
changes we had made, our new strategy and 
our immediate objectives.
this year i am pleased to report that Misys 
has moved forward and has made the 
changes required quickly and successfully. 
we have seen 12 months of good 
performance from all of our businesses 
and the company is now in much better 
shape to compete and win more.
last year we announced six strategic 
imperatives in order to deliver on our vision 
to be the leading application software and 
services provider to the most important 
industries in the world. i am pleased to 
report good progress against each of the 
strategic imperatives.
highlights this year included progress on 
the development of fundamentally 
important platforms and solutions, such as 
Misys Bankf usion in Banking, where we 
announced that standard Bank of south 
Africa will be the first bank to implement 
Misys Bankf usion universal Banking.
in our healthcare business, we filled a 
major portfolio gap with the launch of Misys 
Myway™. we also saw strong growth in our 
services business, and with the launch of 
strategic partnerships we increased our 
access to opportunities in growth 
geographies such as china, india, the 
Middle east and eastern europe. 
throughout the year the company 
maintained a clear focus on meeting the 
needs of our clients and this has played a 
major role in our progress.
this year we also saw the enduring value of 
the company’s global reach and expanded 
our presence in two important sectors, 
financial services and healthcare. while we 
are conscious of the effects of the economic 
and financial issues affecting north 
America and western europe, we have 
benefited from the rapid growth in financial 
services across Asia, eastern europe and 
elsewhere. Meanwhile, the mission-critical 
nature of the financial systems we provide 
continues to stimulate strong demand, and 
in the us long-term government 
investment in healthcare is helping to 
increase demand for our services and 
solutions. Our global reach and strong 
recurring revenues means that the credit 
crisis to date has not affected our 
expectations for Misys.
Accelerating growth
with the company in better shape our 
challenge now is to accelerate growth 
significantly. we must take our commitment 
to customers to the next level, introducing 
more innovative solutions and services.  
we must ensure that we continue to focus 
on the most valuable market areas within 
financial services and healthcare while 
growing the opportunity for Misys in 
emerging areas. we must continue to 
strengthen our presence in growth 
geographies. we must also further enhance 
our processes and systems, so the revenue 
growth we achieve is translated into 
improved margins and enhanced 
shareholder value.
t he proposed merger of our healthcare 
business with Allscripts is a particularly 
exciting prospect. the combined business 
would be a leader in its chosen markets and 
a strong platform from which to accelerate 
growth. Achieving faster levels of growth is 
also the rationale for our proposed change 
in dividend policy. f rom 2009 the c ompany 
will retain funds that would otherwise have 
been issued as dividends to shareholders, 
and we will reinvest these funds in the Misys 
businesses. we believe this capital structure 
will help increase our rate of growth, 
creating greater long-term value for 
shareholders.
A strong leadership team
the Board comprises five experienced 
non-executive directors together with the 
chief executive, Mike lawrie, and the chief 
financial Officer, Jim Malone. the Board 
has worked together very effectively this 
year and acted quickly and decisively over 
the proposed merger with Allscripts. 
valueAct capital Master f und l.P. provided 
an underwriting commitment for the equity 
financing for the cash portion of the 
transaction.
the executive team has performed 
extremely well this year, leading the 
company through the first phase of the 
turnaround and achieving levels of growth 
ahead of expectations. the matrix structure 
of the company requires collaborative 
working between the senior leaders of our 
five businesses and this is operating well.
I congratulate and thank the whole team at 
Misys for their dedication and hard work in 
transforming Misys.
we believe the rewards offered to the 
executive team must continue to be aligned 
with shareholder return but their targets 
must also relate to aspects of performance 
they can influence directly. with this in 
mind, we propose to introduce a number of 
changes to our executive remuneration 
policies, and these proposed changes to 
long-term incentives will be presented for 
shareholder approval at the Annual General 
Meeting.
Looking ahead
i am pleased by the progress made this 
year. the inclusion of major global financial 
institutions on our share register suggests 
there is recognition of the strength and 
vitality of the transformed Misys. i believe 
we are heading in the right direction and  
i look forward to reporting on a year of 
growth and significant progress in  
12 months’ time.
Sir Dominic Cadbury
Chairman
