 CHIEF  
EXECUTIVE’S  
REVIEW
chief executive’s review
Why do you describe this as a year of 
transformation?
In last year’s Annual Report I set out a new 
strategy. This year I can report good progress.  
We enhanced the value we deliver for customers, 
and we entered a new phase focused on building 
a growth platform. This is a remarkable business 
transformation.
Q
A
04 | Misys plc Annual report 2008 Misys plc Annual report 2008 | 05
We promised to align Misys with 
the needs of customers and the 
expectations of shareholders 
– we are executing ahead of 
schedule and our performance 
shows that we are moving in the 
right direction.
Mike Lawrie, Chief Executive
We are getting fit
in March 2007 we set out the Misys strategy 
to turn around and improve the financial  
and operating performance of the 
company. Our vision is to become the 
leading application software and services 
provider to the most important industries  
in the world, by providing customers with 
integrated, comprehensive solutions.
i am pleased to report good progress 
executing against the strategy.
we have completed the sale and disposal  
of non-core operations, including sesame 
and two healthcare businesses. we have 
repositioned our portfolio around high-
growth market areas.
we have taken costs out of the organisation 
through a range of productivity 
improvements, procurement savings, 
reorganisation and back office offshoring 
– which has helped move us from a net 
debt position to a positive cash position.
since we announced the strategy we have 
built a new leadership team which is now 
well established and has shown its ability 
to execute against our strategy.
Misys is fitter, sharper and more 
competitive as a result of our actions and 
our key performance indicators underline 
this. we have improved margins by three 
percentage points and have delivered 
revenue growth of 6% which were ahead  
of plan and expectations.
Our customer satisfaction levels are 
improving across all areas of the business, 
and while there is still a lot more to do i am 
encouraged with the early indicators. we 
achieved these improvements despite a 
challenging macro-economic environment 
and tough competition in our markets.
Launched innovative solutions and services
Over the last year, in Banking we saw the 
much anticipated launch of Misys 
Bankf usion, a new universal Banking 
platform which is able to host an array of new 
and exciting applications and services. we 
started the implementation of our first Misys 
Bankf usion solution in spring 2008 with our 
first customer standard Bank of south Africa.
in t reasury & capital Markets (tcM) all  
of our key applications are now available,  
or due for launch as hosted solutions and 
extend the asset classes they cover.
in healthcare we launched Misys Myw ay™, 
which provides small physician practices 
with practice management, electronic 
medical records and claims management 
applications in one solution. we also 
announced our proposed merger with 
Allscripts. combining Misys healthcare’s 
strengths in Practice Management and 
Allscripts strengths in electronic health 
records (ehr) we will create a true leader 
in the fast growing ehr market, which is 
forecast to be worth us$5 billion by 2015. 
the combined company will have an 
installed base of around 150,000 physicians. 
this merger will transform our healthcare 
business to a leadership position.
we launched a new Open source division 
during the year to help drive innovation in 
the market place. t wo market opportunities 
have been identified; carbon trading and 
connecting healthcare communities.  
Open source is working towards launching 
the first revenue generating solution  
during 2008.
in Global services the business has grown 
significantly by increasing the breadth and 
depth of support we provide and enabling 
customers to maximise their return on 
investment in solutions. Our training 
solution Misys Academy grew and we 
launched the innovative online training 
portal Misys learning suite.
Developed a more resilient business model
the past year has witnessed a shift in 
economic sentiment which has brought  
with it a new and different set of challenges. 
whilst we will continue to closely monitor 
the needs of our customers, demand for  
our solutions and service support has been 
largely unaffected, most notably in Africa, 
Asia, the Middle east, r ussia and the cis . 
within our established markets of north 
America and western europe, many 
customers are seeking solutions and service 
support to help address cost, compliance 
and risk issues. t his inherent geographic 
strength of our business model, combined 
with 58% of our revenues being recurring 
and our growing services business, means 
that not only can we take confidence in our 
ability to meet our expectations across the 
cycle, but also that the credit crisis to date 
has not changed our expectations for Misys. 
however, we have appropriate contingency 
plans in place. 06 | Misys plc Annual report 2008
chief executive’s review
Established winning partnerships in new 
high-growth markets
we increased our presence and capabilities 
in the fastest growing geographic markets 
– including the Middle east, china, india 
and eastern europe. w e launched strategic 
partnerships that further strengthen our 
offering and open up new markets. As an 
example our partnership with digital china 
will open up a market of 30,000 small and 
medium sized banks in china.
Increased efficiency and productivity
we are establishing common systems and 
processes within Misys to drive 
performance, cost efficiency and 
productivity improvements. during the year 
we adopted and implemented world-class 
business processes such as salesforce.
com, supportforce.com, cognos, clarity 
and others, and these will help us achieve 
significant run-rate savings, enhanced 
development processes and faster 
response time for customers.
Increasing targets for the next phase
Misys has delivered ahead of schedule on 
the targets for phase one of the turnaround 
that we outlined in our March 2007 strategy 
presentation. we are now entering the 
second phase and in light of the progress we 
have made, we think it appropriate to update 
the strategic goals for this new phase.
f or the next phase of the turnaround, which 
we expect will take around two years to 
execute, Misys is aiming to:
+  Grow revenue at around 5-8%, up from 
the 2-4% targets originally set out in 2007
+  Grow our Global services business at 
around 15-18%, up from the 3-5% targets 
originally set
+  Over this same period we aim to grow 
revenue in tcM by 10-13% up from the 
previous growth rates
+  Build on the 16% we achieved for Group 
margins in phase one and seek an 
additional 1-2% margin improvement in 
the second phase of the turnaround.
none of these targets reflect the expected 
positive impact of the Allscripts merger 
with Misys healthcare.
Getting the company fit for the future was 
just the start. As we move into the next 
phase of our turnaround strategy, we are 
sharpening our focus on competing harder, 
winning more and increasing the long-term 
value we create for customers and 
shareholders.
We are transforming the Misys culture
the changes we introduced this year have 
made a positive impact due to the talent 
and commitment of our employees. we 
asked our people to deliver and they did. 
they responded to change with a terrific 
attitude, hard work and the achievement  
of tangible results.
i am delighted that our latest employee 
survey shows we are making progress on 
employee engagement. it takes time to 
transform an organisation but we are 
moving in the right direction, led by a 
strong and accountable leadership team, 
compelling values and a high performance 
culture. wherever we operate Misys people 
now share a clear vision and values, and 
that is having a powerful effect on how we 
work together.
i have been impressed by the loyalty our 
people feel towards the customers they 
support. employees tell me that the wider 
effects of our work are also important to 
them. f rom helping to improve the quality of 
healthcare for millions of people to playing 
an active role in meeting the challenge of 
climate change – what we do can benefit our 
customers and the wider world.
We are taking Misys to the next level
t he good progress we made in executing our 
strategy ahead of plan allows us to improve 
our strategy goals. the principles we set out 
at the start of our turnaround remain true 
today. everything we do must be focused 
around meeting the changing needs of our 
customers. we must keep driving costs 
down and efficiency up. we must keep 
investing in our most valuable markets and 
launching new and better solutions and 
services. Our competitors are not standing 
still and we need to deliver more than ever 
before if we are to compete successfully.
we have performed well this year and go 
into the second phase of our turnaround in 
good shape, but there is no complacency 
here. Our absolute priority is clear – we 
must find more and more ways to increase 
the value we deliver to customers. that is 
what will drive us forward in the future.
Mike Lawrie
Chief Executive
This year we took an enormous 
step towards leadership in 
Healthcare when we announced 
our proposed merger with 
Allscripts.
Mike Lawrie, Chief Executive
Group revenue
*
6% growth
Operating profit
*
 improvement
37% growth
Total order intake
7% growth
Operating margin
*
13% growth
*
  financial performance measures 
reported on a like-for-like basis.  
see page 27 for reconciliation to  
statutory measures.
2008
2007
£492m
£464m
2008
2007
£81m
£59m
2008
2007
£259m
£242m
2008
2007
16%
13%
