 Driving innovation
This year has been a turning point  
as many of our new solutions hit the 
marketplace and gained signiﬁcant 
traction. We saw a big increase in  
licence orders from our new solutions 
which contributed 41% of our total 
licence revenues. We are pleased to  
see that our hard work and commitment 
to BankFusion is starting to pay off. 
Our development teams are using the 
BankFusion architecture to unlock the 
depth and breadth of ﬁnancial services 
functionality that we have embedded 
within our different products and make  
it available to all our customers. With 
BankFusion we can build a component  
or application once and re-use it many 
times – for example, enabling the treasury 
capabilities within our Opics solution  
to be made available within BankFusion 
Universal Banking. This makes our 
development processes more efﬁcient  
and effective but, more importantly, it 
enables us to deliver more comprehensive, 
integrated solutions to our customers  
and accelerate time to market.
With clear development principles ﬁrmly 
in place, we have been able to construct 
the building blocks for our new solutions 
and foster innovation within the ﬁnancial 
services technology sector.
Improving quality and service levels
This year, we launched a major quality 
initiative to improve customer service 
levels and new code quality for all our 
new solutions. As part of the programme, 
we are introducing new, improved 
service level agreements to give 
customers greater certainty over when 
they can expect problems to be resolved. 
We are also committing resources to 
drive down customer defect backlogs 
thus ensuring that when customers raise 
problems, they are dealt with quickly. 
Finally, we are strengthening our testing 
practices to improve the quality of our 
new code releases. Speciﬁcally, we  
are increasing the coverage of our test 
cases, introducing continuous integration 
and automated testing. We are also using 
customer test cases in our own testing; 
this not only improves the coverage of 
our testing processes but it means that 
customers can shorten their own testing 
cycles.
Delivering the next generation of 
banking systems
We are delivering much needed 
innovation in the core banking systems 
space with our BankFusion solutions, the 
foundation of which is the BankFusion 
Platform – a process-centric graphical 
development environment that enables 
business processes to be created or 
re-conﬁgured quickly and easily. We 
used the BankFusion Platform to build 
BankFusion Universal Banking (UB) –  
a completely new retail banking solution. 
In addition, we are building out a set  
of shared applications starting with  
Teller, Loan Origination and Islamic 
Banking to extend the functionality  
of BankFusion UB, as well as other  
Misys and third party banking systems. 
We plan to make the BankFusion 
Platform available to banks to extend 
their own banking systems, utilising 
pre-conﬁgured common banking 
services and shared applications  
from Misys as well as in-house and 
third-party applications. This is a 
completely new approach that enables 
banks to maximise the value of their 
existing assets.
Maximising functionality,  
minimising disruption
Many banks need to add new capabilities 
to their core banking systems without the 
disruption of a major system replacement. 
BankFusion banking solutions meet this 
requirement by enabling clients to extend 
the life of their existing systems. Since its 
general release in September 2010, the 
rapid take-up of BankFusion Equation 
has demonstrated the demand for  
a new approach within our own client 
base. We will also extend this capability  
to non-Misys customers who can use 
BankFusion to incorporate new 
functionality into their in-house or  
legacy core banking systems.


For more information on our Banking 
business, please go to page 30
Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
16 Annual Report 2011 Harnessing the power of the portal
Our customers are shifting from highly-
geared lending to fee-earning activities. 
Misys is providing integrated transaction 
banking services to banks who seek  
to improve and expand these services  
for their corporate clients. Our portal 
technology means that banks can run 
trade ﬁnance and cash management 
applications on the same platform, 
beneﬁt from more efﬁcient systems 
management and reduced cost of 
ownership, and leverage a ﬂexible 
platform to expand into new  
geographies and banking services. 
Unlocking the value of our capital 
markets solutions
Our BankFusion service-oriented 
architecture (SOA) strategy is also being 
implemented across our capital markets 
solutions to make it easier for ﬁnancial 
institutions to implement, consume and 
scale our solutions according to their 
speciﬁc business requirements. Our 
componentisation project will extend  
to the recently acquired Misys Sophis 
solutions to provide even greater 
cross-asset class coverage, portfolio 
management and risk management 
capabilities to both sell-side and  
buy-side clients.
Responding to market requirements
The fast pace of change in the capital 
markets means that our solutions must 
be kept up-to-date with market and 
regulatory changes as well as local 
requirements. Our teams are constantly 
working with clients to ensure that we 
deliver the capabilities they need to run 
their businesses.
Risk management
We have a wealth of risk management 
capabilities within our solutions that 
address the needs of the Capital Markets 
sector, even more so with the addition  
of Misys Sophis. Our intention is to 
consolidate the best of breed components 
from the Misys Sophis Risk Management 
Solution, Misys Eagleye, Misys Risk Vision 
and Misys Opics Risk Plus into a global 
enterprise risk management solution that 
will be available on a single platform. 
Phase 1 of this project will create a 
comprehensive market risk solution so  
that clients can monitor and measure  
the full range of market risks, including VAR 
calculations (Value at Risk) and implement 
stress testing scenarios direct from their 
front ofﬁce application. Phase 2 will extend 
the solution to include credit risk. 
Technology trends
While much of our development effort 
is focused on delivering solutions that 
meet banks’ short-to-medium term 
requirements, we actively track trends  
to determine the future development of 
our solutions. We are seeing increased 
demand for our hosted services across 
many of our solutions and, in the longer 
term, we believe cloud computing 
represents a signiﬁcant opportunity to 
deliver our solutions on a self-service, 
pay-as-you-go basis. We are working 
actively with Microsoft and other partners 
to ensure our solutions are ready for the 
cloud when customer demand emerges. 
Pioneers in Open Source
Misys Open Source Solutions,  
dedicated to the development and 
distribution of open source solutions,  
is growing into a major player in the 
rapidly emerging carbon and healthcare 
markets. Our pioneering healthcare 
information exchanges and carbon 
registry systems have attracted the 
attention of government and voluntary 
agencies and major corporations 
worldwide.
Innovative ideas from our employees  
help to create new solutions that enable our 
customers to achieve competitive advantage 
and position Misys as an industry leader. 
Our inventors work tirelessly to ensure  
that their ideas will succeed. In 2010,  
we launched our Intellectual Property 
Programme to help encourage and protect 
the value of our innovation.
We ﬁled our ﬁrst patent application in  
the US for BankFusion in 2010. This was 
followed by two further applications in 2011, 
a second for BankFusion and another for 
mobile banking. We expect to ﬁle additional 
patent applications in the coming year 
relating to additional BankFusion features, 
new Misys Open Source offerings and new 
Trade Portal features.


“ Patents are core assets that uniquely 
secure company innovation and will 
play a key role in realising the long 
term business goals of Misys. We will 
continue to encourage our innovators 
and work to develop our Intellectual 
Property Programme even further.” 
Robin Crewe,  
Chief Technology Ofﬁcer

of orders came from new solutions
For more information on our Capital 
Markets business, please go to  
pages 26 to 29
Overview
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 17
