 Transformation
This has been a year of transformation 
for Misys. We completed three signiﬁcant 
transactions; the sale of Allscripts, the 
capital return to shareholders and the 
acquisition of Sophis. Together, these 
repositioned Misys as a pure play 
ﬁnancial services software company. 
More importantly, strong market 
positions and compelling products for 
both the capital markets and banking 
sectors mean that Misys is now well 
positioned for future growth.
Shareholder value
In June 2010, we announced our plan  
to sell the majority of our stake in 
Allscripts and the intention to return  
the majority of the net proceeds to 
shareholders through a tender offer.  
With the overwhelming support of our 
shareholders, we sold the entire stake 
and completed the return of £670m to 
shareholders by way of a tender offer 
and B Share scheme. 
The stake in Allscripts was acquired 
in late 2008 through a signiﬁcant 
investment that involved purchasing 
shares in, and merging Misys’ US 
healthcare business with, Allscripts.  
In just two years this investment yielded  
a return of around 130%.
The divestiture of our stake in Allscripts 
and the capital return to shareholders 
were complex transactions and in many 
ways without precedent. They involved  
a complicated, three-way transatlantic 
set of transactions with many US and  
UK legal and regulatory requirements 
and the distribution of four shareholder 
circulars. 
Robust performance
Last year, Misys delivered robust 
operating performance, with a good  
end to the ﬁnancial year as revenue 
growth improved to 8% in the second 
half. Group revenue for the whole year 
was £370m, an increase of 4% on the 
previous year on a pro-forma, constant 
currency basis. Adjusted operating proﬁt 
was up 12% with the adjusted operating 
margin 1.3 percentage points higher as 
management made further savings in  
the back-ofﬁce whilst sustaining our 
investment in product development and 
customer-facing resources. Adjusted 
pro-forma basic earnings per share rose 
by 22% to 15.1p.
Strengthening our position in  
ﬁnancial services
As a newly focused ﬁnancial services 
software provider we see acquisitions  
in our chosen markets as a key way of 
reinforcing Misys’ prospects for future 
growth. In November, we announced  
the proposed acquisition of Sophis,  
a leading provider of portfolio and risk 
management solutions which are largely 
complementary to our existing offerings. 
We see Sophis as an exciting engine  
for growth, in particular through its 
leadership position in the buy-side; 
providing solutions to organisations 
ranging from global asset managers  
to start-up hedge funds.
The ﬁrst post acquisition revenue 
contribution from the Misys Sophis 
division for the fourth quarter, included  
in our ﬁnancial results, was encouraging, 
showing impressive growth of 32% on 
the previous year. We are very pleased 
with the energy and enthusiasm of the 
Misys Sophis employees.
Together, the Treasury and Capital 
Markets and Misys Sophis divisions 
occupy a leading position within the 
capital markets and Misys is now ideally 
placed to win more deals in this sector, 
as well as being able to take advantage 
of cross-selling opportunities and more 
immediate cost synergies. 
In our Banking business we continued  
to invest in the development of our 
innovative BankFusion platform. This  
was rewarded both by sales success 
that exceeded our expectations and  
the emerging consensus amongst 
market commentators as to the special 
capabilities BankFusion can unlock  
for its customers.
Improving customer satisfaction
Nothing demonstrates the power  
of Mike Lawrie’s turnaround strategy  
for Misys more than the dramatic 
improvement in customer satisfaction 
achieved each year. Last year was no 
exception with signiﬁcant improvements 
across the business, with the strongest 
scores recorded in product reliability  
and customer relationships.




Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation 
18 Annual Report 2011 Rewarding the creation of  
shareholder value 
Last year, a series of major and complex 
corporate transactions challenged 
our remuneration committee to make 
changes to incentive arrangements  
that struck the right balance between 
fairly rewarding management for their 
achievements and securing value for 
money for shareholders. Throughout the 
year, we actively consulted shareholders 
on matters as diverse as recalibrating 
existing long-term incentives, resetting 
dilution limits and the creation of a new 
incentive arrangement for our Chief 
Executive. We were particularly grateful 
for shareholders’ consistent support,  
all the more so as our remuneration 
committee had to be innovative in  
its proposals.
Board succession
I am pleased to welcome Stephen  
Wilson and Timothy Tuff to the Board as 
executive and independent non-executive 
Directors respectively. Together, they bring 
greater international and direct experience 
of our industry to the Board.
Conﬁdence in our future
The strength of Misys’ prospects for 
future growth recently prompted an 
approach with a potential bid for the 
Company. We will evaluate any and  
all such approaches thoroughly to  
ensure the best possible outcome for our 
employees, customers and shareholders. 
Your Board believes that Mike Lawrie  
and the Misys team can justiﬁably  
be very proud of the Company’s 
transformation. Aside from creating 
signiﬁcant shareholder value, they  
have undoubtedly made Misys a more 
attractive place to work and a better 
company to do business with. The  
Board has great conﬁdence in Misys’ 
on-going strategy and its ability to 
continue to generate signiﬁcant growth 
and value for shareholders. 
It traditionally falls to the Chairman to 
record the Board’s thanks to the CEO 
and their entire team. Rarely can such 
thanks be more richly deserved than in 
respect of last year’s achievements by 
the Misys team. Throughout the year, 
their effort and persistence has been 
extraordinary. I would also like to thank 
our shareholders for their active interest 
and consistent support, without which 
this very critical year in Misys’ 
transformation simply wouldn’t  
have happened.
James Crosby
Chairman
James Crosby Chairman
For more information on our approach 
to Corporate Governance please go 
to pages 50 to 61
Business review
Misys Leading technology and innovation
Annual Report 2011 19 Business review
20 Annual Report 2011
Misys Leading technology and innovation  “ This has been a year of great progress with our strategy and corporate 
structure. We completed the acquisition of Sophis to create the leading 
capital markets platform and delivered signiﬁcant value to shareholders  
from the divestment of Allscripts. We have great conﬁdence in the future 
opportunities for Misys to continue its path to leadership in our industry.” 
 
Mike Lawrie 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Business review
Annual Report 2011 21
Misys Leading technology and innovation
