 Chief Executive’s market  
and business review
We are the UK’s largest 
operator of managed 
restaurants and pubs,  
with a high quality freehold 
estate, some of the best 
known brands in the industry, 
substantial scale and 
committed retail teams. 
This year, we have delivered a strong set of 
financial results, with sales and margin growth, 
adjusted EPS up 17% and debt continuing to 
fall. At the same time we have made good 
progress with our business transformation 
programme which is on track and aimed at 
focusing the business on four key priority areas: 
our people, our practices, our guests and our 
profits. We are confident this will help to drive 
our future growth and our ability to create 
additional shareholder value.
Market review
2013 has not been an easy year for UK 
consumers. With wage rises not keeping pace 
with the general level of inflation in the 
economy, discretionary income has remained 
tight. This economic backdrop continues to 
drive a challenging consumer environment  
and ever greater expectations when people  
do choose to spend their money. It is in this 
context that we are especially pleased with  
our financial progress this year. A number of 
factors are impacting our market’s evolution 
and we believe will continue to do so:
• The market is large but fragmented.  
The eating and drinking-out market is worth 
£75bn a year and we are one of the largest 
players in that market with sales of around 
£2bn, approximately 3% of the total. Our 
largest brand by sales, Harvester, has just 
210 outlets in the UK compared to around 
125,000 eating and drinking-out venues in 
total. The opportunity for scale operators to 
grow by taking market share with leading 
brands is significant in a market of this size.
• The importance of brands is increasing. 
Although the majority of the industry is 
unbranded, the branded restaurant and  
pub sector has consistently grown at a faster 
rate than the unbranded sector and this  
has accelerated in the downturn as guests 
seek the guarantee of quality that a brand 
can offer. We expect that this trend  
will continue.
• Leisure spending has been protected. 
Through the downturn, families have 
tended to protect low ticket leisure 
spending. Average weekly family spending 
on leisure increased 4% from 2007 to 2011, 
whereas overall weekly family expenditure 
was down 6% over the same time  
(source: ONS family spending survey 2012).
• Food remains the primary long-term 
route to sustainable growth in this sector. 
We benefit from being principally focused 
on eating-out, with around three quarters of 
our turnover generated from guests eating 
in our restaurants and pubs. We expect the 
eating-out market to grow at least in line 
with overall consumer spending in future. 
Even in the structurally declining drinking-
out market, brands and formats with strong 
locations, a clear brand proposition and 
customer focus should outperform.
• There are significant economic disparities 
by region and by economic grouping. 
Between 2006 and 2012, London, the East 
and the South East achieved substantially 
higher economic growth than the rest 
of the country and this trend is forecast 
to continue. 45% of our revenues are 
generated in these areas and we are 
well placed to benefit from this improving 
trend. Different economic groups have 
also been impacted to varying degrees by 
the economic slowdown and subsequent 
austerity measures. Baby boomers and 
more affluent economic groups have been 
relatively well protected whereas 18 to 34 
year olds and the lower income deciles 
have been the hardest hit. Our brand 
portfolio is targeted at guests from across 
a wide spectrum, so it is increasingly 
important that we focus the business to 
benefit from these dynamics. We have 
invested heavily in this area in FY 2013 
and our brand teams are now highly 
focused on the specific market trends 
which impact their guests.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
22 Our priorities  
in action
59% 
Our measure of guest recommendation,  
net promoter score, was up 4 percentage 
points to 59%
23
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Company overview 01 – 05 Governance 35 – 64 Financial statements 65 – 106 Shareholder information 107 – 108 Strategic and business review 07 – 34 Chief Executive’s market  
and business review continued
Brand positioning, operating strategies 
and expansion opportunities
We operate a wide range of scale brands and 
formats which offer food and drink across a 
broad spectrum of price points and occasions, 
from a casual meeting with friends to special 
occasion dining. We have identified five  
‘market spaces’ through our extensive 
consumer research on which to focus: 
upmarket social, special, family, everyday social 
and heartland*. These spaces cover about half 
of the £75bn eating and drinking-out market  
and are impacted by a wide range of market 
dynamics. We are increasing the efficiency  
of our capital allocation and maximising our 
returns on investment through three broad 
operating and expansion strategies.
Invest & expand: The upmarket social,  
special and family spaces, together worth 
£35bn, currently benefit from the most 
attractive market trends and our businesses  
in these areas were the strongest performers  
in FY 2013. We have strong brands in these 
segments and we expect them to deliver good 
organic sales and profit growth in the future.  
In addition, we will be expanding our footprint 
in these areas and are currently focusing on 
Harvester, Toby Carvery, Miller & Carter and 
All Bar One, where we can deliver attractive 
returns on investment. We opened 13 new 
sites in these brands over the financial year. We 
will also expand our other businesses in these 
market spaces on an opportunistic basis and 
we opened one Browns and two Alex sites in 
the year. We expect the rate of new openings 
to accelerate in this segment over the medium 
term towards 50 each year.
Optimise & invest: The everyday social space, 
currently worth £2bn, is a market focused on 
drinking and eating-out in relaxed, comfortable, 
community pubs. We expect to grow in this 
area through optimising the sites we already 
have rather than expanding site numbers. 
To this end, we have reallocated a proportion 
of our maintenance capital to improve amenity 
levels in certain brands and ensure the 
brand positioning is suitable for their target 
customers. As an example, we are planning 
to invest in Ember Inns over the next two 
years, with a clear focus on driving both drink 
and food volumes in warm and welcoming 
suburban pubs, firmly embedded in their 
local communities.
Protect & compete: The heartland space, 
worth £4bn, is a market characterised by the 
need to offer value to consumers who have 
been most exposed to the economic downturn. 
The effects of the recession and austerity have 
hit this consumer group more than other 
segments and the market dynamics are the 
most difficult of the market spaces in which  
we operate. Our strategy is based around  
local flexibility and working hard to deliver 
exceptional value for our guests while 
generating cash. New menus in Sizzling Pubs 
and Oak Tree Pubs resulted in an improved 
volume performance in the second half of the 
year. We have extended our sports coverage 
with both Sky Sports and BT Sport and we are 
focusing on improved staff recruitment and 
induction. As a further example of this strategy, 
we recently launched new autumn menus in 
Crown Carveries which featured great value 
main courses at £3.69, compared to the main 
carvery price of £4.19. These products satisfy  
a guest need for great value, traditional meals 
at a price point less than £4, whilst protecting 
our cash margins per dish. We have also 
restructured our operations in this area, with  
a more efficient structure now in place to 
reduce travel time for regional management.
Business transformation programme
In the half year results, we discussed how  
we are transforming the business to deliver 
long-term growth in shareholder value by 
addressing some core questions: how we 
attract, develop and retain outstanding and 
engaged people; how we operate scale  
brands and formats effectively; and how we 
consistently delight our guests and therefore 
achieve market leadership.
2013 is the first full year of the transformation 
programme. In FY 2012, we successfully 
restructured our central functions and 
modernised our core IT infrastructure, 
delivering annual savings of £10m. This year,  
we have been building on these foundations 
and undertaking a more wide ranging change 
programme, aimed at focusing the business on 
four priority areas: our people, our practices, 
our guests and our profits. We are pleased that 
we have been able to grow sales, margins and 
EPS whilst making progress in each of our 
priority areas.
 £75bn 
The eating and drinking-out market  
is worth £75bn a year
 4% 
Average weekly family spending on 
leisure increased 4% from 2007 to 2011
 45%
45% of our revenues are generated in  
London, the East and the South East
*  The list of brands within each market space is as  
follows. Upmarket social includes All Bar One, Castle, 
Nicholson’s and Alex. Special includes Miller & Carter, 
Country Pubs and Browns. Family includes Harvester 
and Toby Carvery. Everyday social includes Ember Inns 
and O’Neill’s. Heartland includes Crown Carveries, Oak 
Tree Pubs and Sizzling Pubs. See the Half Year Results 
2013 for further discussion of these spaces.
24
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our priorities  
in action
25.4% 
Employment costs broadly maintained at 
25.4% of sales while improving service, 
especially at peak times
25
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Company overview 01 – 05 Governance 35 – 64 Financial statements 65 – 106 Shareholder information 107 – 108 Strategic and business review 07 – 34 Our priorities  
in action
78% 
Staff turnover has decreased from  
82% to 78%
26
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our people: We consider the key measure  
of success in relation to our people to be staff 
turnover, which has decreased from 82% in 
FY 2012 to 78% in FY 2013. We believe that 
when we successfully engage our people, 
they stay with us for longer, become more 
efficient, provide better service to our guests 
and in turn drive like-for-like sales. Further 
reductions in staff turnover are therefore  
a key focus going forward. We are also 
committed to providing career opportunities 
to young people through our apprenticeship 
schemes, with approximately 1,600 
employees completing a programme at our 
year end. We are particularly proud of our 
Browns apprenticeship programme, which is 
now in its second year, and our Management 
Development Apprenticeship, which began 
in Country Pubs and is now expanding across 
many of our other brands.
Our practices: Practices refer to the 
professional and efficient way that we run  
our operations. We continue to focus on 
improving our already high scores in the FSA’s 
Food Hygiene Ratings. This year, we have 
broadly maintained outlet level employment 
costs as a percentage of sales at 25.4% whilst 
improving service, especially at peak times. 
Our purchasing teams have continued to 
restrict cost increases, especially in food, 
where overall inflation has been kept to below 
1% over the year compared to market inflation 
of approximately 5% (sources: ONS, Prestige 
Purchasing). As a result of these actions, 
together with lower pre-opening and closure 
costs and the residual savings from the 
restructuring in FY 2012, operating expenses 
have marginally decreased and operating 
margins increased by 0.5 percentage points.
Our guests: We have chosen not to drive 
short term like-for-like sales through 
increased and unfocused promotional 
activity. We aim to improve our relative  
like-for-like performance through delivering 
consistently excellent guest experiences, 
leading to increased revisits and 
recommendation. The key driver of this will 
be the willingness of guests to recommend 
our businesses to their friends and family 
which we measure through our net promoter 
score*. This year, the net promoter score 
across the business has increased by  
4 percentage points to 59%. All of our 
restaurants and pubs now have access to  
a live dashboard which lets them see how 
they are scoring against the most critical 
measures that drive guests to revisit and 
recommend our business to their friends, as 
well as seeing comments from TripAdvisor 
and Facebook reviews. 
Our profits: This year, adjusted earnings  
per share were up 17% based on higher  
sales, improved operating margins and  
lower interest charges, as described in  
the Financial Review. The 50 basis point 
operating margin improvement is a good 
result and in line with our previously stated 
aim to protect our operating margins and  
seek incremental opportunities to expand 
them in the medium term.
Outlook
The transformation programme is designed to 
deliver the key building blocks of sustainable 
growth. Informed by guest insight, we will 
make further progress next year through 
investment into service, training and 
development, systems improvements and 
improved capital allocation.
 
In particular, a variety of projects will start to 
benefit the business. In our Retail Support 
Centre, these include investment into new 
central systems in payroll and finance. In our 
restaurants and pubs, we are in the early 
stages of a project to replace our till, payment, 
table management and kitchen management 
systems. The new systems will enable the 
delivery of significantly improved guest 
service, measured both in quality and speed, 
and allow improvements in menus and 
promotional activity to manage our gross 
margins better. The new systems are being 
rolled out at pace across the business, with 
125 sites live at the year end and 320 sites by 
the end of November.
We are cautious about the strength of the 
economic recovery over the next year and 
expect ongoing variation by geography and 
consumer group. Like-for-like sales were up 
0.1% in the first eight weeks of the new 
financial year. We are pleased with the 
progress we are making on our transformation 
programme and, as a result, we are well 
placed to deliver sustainable profit growth 
and shareholder value in the future.
Alistair Darby
Chief	 Executive
 +1 7 % 
Increase in Adjusted EPS
 1
,
600 
Employees completing apprenticeships
*  We ask our guests how likely they are to recommend 
our restaurants and pubs to their friends, families  
and colleagues, scored out of 10. Each year we obtain 
around 700,000 responses. The net promoter score for 
a pub is defined as the percentage of responses where 
we score 9 or 10 out of 10 (‘brand promoters’) less the 
percentage of responses where we score 0 to 6 out of  
10 (‘brand detractors’). Responses scoring 7 or 8 
(‘passives’) are ignored in the calculation. The periodic 
pub scores are averaged to calculate the overall score.
27
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Company overview 01 – 05 Governance 35 – 64 Financial statements 65 – 106 Shareholder information 107 – 108 Strategic and business review 07 – 34
