 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 2
Chairman’s Statement I am pleased to be
able to report that MITIE’s 2003 results show a
sixteenth consecutive year of profitable growth
and very positive cash flow. 
DAVID M TELLING CHAIRMAN
“I know that these positive results have only been
possible because of the hard work, dedication
and motivation of our people, who are
achieving considerable success.”
MITIE Group PLC (“MITIE”) has made
good progress and our Support Services
Division has had a particularly strong
year despite changing economic
conditions that have tightened our
markets over the past twelve months.
Our commitment to delivering service
levels that enable customers to achieve
their own objectives underpins this
continuing success.
Results
Turnover rose to £565.8 million, an increase of
9%, and profit before tax, goodwill amortisation
and impairment rose by 10% to £34.1 million.
Earnings per share (pre-goodwill amortisation and
impairment) rose by 8% to 7.3p (Note 7). We
have increased our cash balance by £29.9 million
to £55.0 million. Your Board is recommending a
final dividend of 1.1p per share, making a total
of 1.9p for the year, an increase of 19%.
Corporate Developments
Development of the MITIE business model has
continued strongly throughout the financial year.
We have started eight new companies. Managed
Services and Engineering Maintenance have
increased their national coverage. We have
introduced our Engineering discipline into niche
markets such as social housing, utilities and
technology and in the South East of England, we
have started a landscape business and an interior
contracting business. 
In January 2003, we signed our biggest ever
contract, worth over £100 million. The contract
with Rolls-Royce provides opportunities for all
of our businesses and is the first major example
of how MITIE companies, working together, can
benefit our customers on a national basis.
We have continued our strategy of reducing 
our exposure to capital-intensive businesses. 
We sold our Access contracting companies in
June 2002 and we are closing both MITIE Lindsay
Ltd and MITIE HydroCat Ltd.
Since the year end, we have completed the
acquisitions of Trident Safeguards Ltd, a manned
guarding security company, and Eagle Pest
Control Services UK Ltd. These acquisitions will
accelerate our development in markets where
we see good potential. MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 3
People
These positive results have only been possible
because of the hard work, dedication and
motivation of our people, who are achieving
considerable success in difficult times. I would
like to thank all of them for their efforts this year.
MITIE people understand that their own success
comes from satisfying their customers. In order 
to achieve this, they take the time to understand
their customers’ goals and the contribution that
MITIE can make towards reaching them. 
Our management team has been strengthened 
by the appointment of Ruby McGregor-Smith
as Group Finance Director in December 2002
and she has already added considerable value.
We have also increased the number of Non-
Executive Directors. Manish J Chande was
appointed in July 2002, David C Ord in October
2002 and Cullum McAlpine in April 2003.
Between them they have a wide range of skills
and experience that will add considerably 
to the strength of the Board.
Three people who have contributed greatly to
MITIE’s success have retired during the year.
Nigel Swiffen retired as a Non-Executive Director
after 11 years; John Urquhart as Head of
Corporate Affairs after enthusiastically
representing the Company for 10 years; and
Marshall Thomas as Group Chief Accountant
who joined MITIE shortly after its formation in
1987. I thank them all for their period of loyal
service and wish them well in their retirement.
Outlook
MITIE has enjoyed success for over fifteen years
and will, I believe, deliver further profitable
growth over the years to come. The current year
has started in line with expectations and we will
develop by building on the many unique
qualities that MITIE can offer and by continually
seeking to enhance Shareholder value. 
The strength in depth of our management puts us
in a position where, even in the most challenging
of market conditions, we are able to make
progress. We have 23,000 highly talented and
motivated people who understand the MITIE
philosophy of putting customers first. Our capacity
to deliver services nationally ensures that we are
well placed to benefit from the continuing trend
towards outsourcing and the bundling of services.
Our companies are realising significant benefits
from working together and this is a trend I expect
to continue. These attributes, combined with the
extra growth of our start-up companies, mean
that we are well placed for the future.
MITIE is known for quality in services, customers
and earnings. Your Company will remain focused
on its core activities and continue to grow the
business by putting its customers first.
David M Telling
Chairman
