 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
02 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004
“The Board is confident that MITIE is
well placed for the future.”
MITIE Group PLC (“MITIE”) has had a
successful year. It has been a year
of change but it has also been a
year of progress. The Company
continues to achieve a good rate
of growth and is consolidating its
position as a leader in the provision
of Building and Support Services.
David C Ord
CHAIRMAN
Working together as a team MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 03
Results
Turnover rose to £694.5 million, an increase of 22.7%, and
profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and impairment*
rose by 18.3% to £40.3 million. Profit before tax rose by
20.1% to £38.2 million. Headline earnings per share rose by
14.1% to 8.3p (Note 7). 
*See Group Profit and Loss Account
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.4p per
share, making a total of 2.5p for the year, an increase of
31.6%. We will continue to review our dividend policy on a
regular basis.
Share Buyback Programme
The Board today announces that it intends to make market
purchases of shares in the Company pursuant to the
authority granted to it by Shareholders at the last Annual
General Meeting of up to 30 million shares. 
Board Changes
MITIE’s founding Chairman, David Telling, died on 31
October 2003 after a long struggle with cancer. David was
the inspiration behind MITIE and it was his drive and
personal philosophy that created the conditions for MITIE’s
success. David was passionate about providing opportunities
for people to realise their full potential. The ‘Management
Incentive Through Investment Equity’ business model
enabled MITIE to grow rapidly. He attracted a large number
of the high calibre people into MITIE and they have grown
the business into a major UK support services group.
I was appointed to succeed David as your Non-Executive
Chairman on 25 September 2003. I was delighted to accept
this challenge and I am determined to reinforce his vision
and values, while taking MITIE forward. I believe that there
is still considerable potential in the MITIE model and we have
continued to initiate new start-ups. This will be accompanied
by select strategic acquisitions, where appropriate.
People
In the past six months I have had the privilege of meeting
many members of the MITIE management team and I have
been impressed with their commitment and enthusiasm.
They are united by a determination to grow the business. I
am confident that they have the vision that will enable
MITIE to continue to achieve its growth targets.
MITIE employees are passionate about providing quality
services to their customers and this attitude is apparent at all
levels of the Group. 
I would like to thank each and every employee for their
considerable efforts during the past year. I also owe a debt to
my Non-Executive colleagues, Sir John Jennings, Manish
Chande and Cullum McAlpine, and thank each of them for
their support. During the year, Donald Macpherson, our
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, retired after 11
years’ service. Donald brought immense experience to the
MITIE Board and I would like to thank him for his valuable
contribution to the Company during its formative years.
Corporate Governance
An effective system of Corporate Governance is fundamental
to fulfilling the Group’s corporate responsibilities. By its
statements and actions, the Board emphasises a culture of
integrity, competence, fairness and responsibility. The
policy of the Board of MITIE is to manage its affairs in
accordance with the Principles of Good Governance and the
Code Provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code
on Corporate Governance incorporated into the UK Listing
Authority Listing Rules issued by the Financial Services
Authority. 
Outlook
MITIE has thrived on a spirit of entrepreneurial energy. That
spirit burns brightly throughout the Group. We have a team
of Directors who bring considerable experience, knowledge
and skill to the decision making process.
We will continue to expand the business by making further
strategic acquisitions and by maintaining the culture of
starting new businesses to provide opportunities for quality
people.
The Board is confident that MITIE is well placed for the future.
David C Ord CHAIRMAN
