 Corporate Governance
We endeavour to achieve the highest standards of
Corporate Governance in the furtherance of our
business and achievement of corporate objectives,
which is clearly detailed in the Annual Report. 
Our difference
W e provide a range of skilled and semi-skilled services
to a wide variety of customers in both the private and
public sectors. Our people are focused on working
hard together, supporting our customers, listening to
them and making sure that the services we provide
connect with their needs.
I would like to thank all of our employees for 
their hard work and dedication over the year.
Without their efforts we would not be able to satisfy
our customers and produce results like these. 
Every one of our 30,000 employees has made an
important contribution.
The Executive Directors have experienced a year of
change; they have successfully integrated the newly
acquired companies and have discharged their
responsibilities admirably. 
I would also like to thank my fellow Non-Executive
Directors for the contribution they have made this
year. The Non-Executive Directors are faced with
increased responsibility and the Company is fortu-
nate to have Directors of such calibre and experience.
Success is never easy, but MITIE has been able to
achieve consistently high levels of performance
because our people are passionate about the quality
of service we provide and because of their finan-
cial interest in the result. That motivation makes 
the difference.
Outlook
We have a clear strategy. We will continue to look
for opportunities where it is viable to start new 
companies. We will continue to grow organically
within our chosen markets and look to expand 
our range of services within our skill base. We will
look for opportunities to make bolt-on acquisitions 
provided our criteria are met.
MITIE operates in a market that, although it is 
competitive, has plenty of opportunities for growth.
We are in the business of continuing to grow in
order to provide better services for our customers,
more opportunities for our employees and improving
returns for our shareholders. 
This Company is well positioned for further success.
I am excited about our prospects for the future.
David C Ord Chairman
I am pleased that I am able to report that we have
produced another good set of results for this financial
year, achieving growth in all of our businesses.
I believe that as Chairman my role is to maintain the
environment for the executive team to manage the
Company successfully and to motivate our employees
so that we can maintain our unequalled record of
providing excellent services to our customers and
achieving consistent growth. These results clearly
demonstrate that we have succeeded again.
I am determined that we will maintain our excellent
performance. 
“Success is never easy, but MITIE has
been able to achieve consistently
high levels of performance because
our people are passionate about the
quality of service we provide and
because of their financial interest 
in the result. That motivation makes
the difference.”
Results
Turnover rose to £818.6 million, an increase of 
17.9 % and profit before tax, goodwill amortisation
and impairment and exceptional items* rose by
16.3% to £46.9 million. Profit before tax after 
goodwill (£2.8 million, 2004: £2.2 million) and
exceptional items (£8.2 million, 2004: £nil) fell by
5.9% to £35.9 million.
Basic earnings per share before goodwill and excep-
tional items rose by 15.0% to 9.6p. Basic earnings per
share fell by 20.8% from 7.6p to 6.0p. The impact of
the exceptional items was to reduce earnings per
share by 2.7p in the current year.
*See Group Profit and Loss Account.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.8p
per share making a total of 3.4p for the year, an
increase of 36.0%. As stated in previous reports we
will continue to review our dividend policy.
Share buyback programme
We commenced a share buyback programme in
June 2004 and in the period under review pur-
chased 10,310,006 MITIE Group PLC ordinary
shares of 2.5p at an average price of 144.6p. The
highest and lowest prices paid were 165.0p and
131.0p respectively. All shares purchased have been
cancelled. We will be seeking to renew the authority,
granted by Shareholders, to purchase up to 10% of
the issued share capital of the Company at the
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) on 28 July 2005.
Chairman’s Statement
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 03 04 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005
By working 
together with 
our customers…
we allow them 
to focus on their
core business.
Ian R Stewart, Chief Executive
This review of our operations has been 
prepared to enable our Shareholders 
and others to have a balanced and 
comprehensive understanding of our 
business and our performance for the 
year under review.
The review provides a wide range of information. For ease of 
reference, we have included the following list of contents 
within this section.
Overview
The business, its markets, values and strategy
The MITIE start-up model
Our major markets
Our structure and services
Our values
Our strategy
Operating Review
Performance in the period
Support Services
Building Services
Dynamics of the business
Cash
Future prospects
