  “The market in which we 
operate remains challenging 
and competitive, but we  
feel well-placed to continue  
to grow given the solid 
foundations of our business.”
Bob Ivell
Chairman
This year has seen us continue to  
deliver earnings growth while remaining 
on track with our priorities. We have taken 
steps to drive long-term growth in the 
business by focusing on increasing food 
volumes, improving our infrastructure and 
allocating our capital in the most effective 
manner. We also completed the exciting 
acquisition of 173 pubs from the Orchid 
Group, which gives us a great opportunity 
to grow further in the forthcoming years. 
The market in which we operate remains 
challenging and competitive, but we feel 
well-placed to continue to grow given  
the solid foundations of our business.
The last year has been full of activity for 
Mitchells & Butlers. I am delighted that  
we were successful in completing the 
acquisition of 173 sites from the Orchid  
Group. The opportunity to purchase this 
largely freehold, managed estate presented 
the type of acquisition unlikely to arise  
again in the near future, and is fully in line  
with our clear strategy of growing our share  
of the UK eating-out market. We are able  
to create value by converting the sites to  
our existing brands and formats, reducing 
central overheads and realising purchasing 
synergies. We welcome the Orchid team  
into our business.
In May we successfully concluded 
negotiations with the Pension Trustees 
regarding the triennial valuation of our 
schemes. Negotiations had been progressing 
since before the last valuation in March  
2013, and we reached a settlement whereby 
company contributions increase at a 
manageable level to reduce the deficit over  
the agreed recovery period. I am delighted 
that we reached a positive agreement for  
both the Company and the Trustees.
I would like to praise and thank our people, 
now at more than 43,000, for their ongoing 
hard work in driving this business forward.  
We aim to delight every guest that eats  
and drinks with us, which we simply cannot 
achieve without the support and hard work  
of our people.
We continue to operate in a challenging 
market. It is clearly very encouraging to see 
the economic recovery taking place, however 
consumers have undoubtedly retained their 
focus on value and quality which developed 
during the recession. We therefore need to 
continue to perform at the top of our game  
to make every guest visit worthwhile. 
Reflecting on the last year, we have achieved  
a great deal and generated further value for 
our shareholders. This has been achieved 
while continuing to set solid foundations  
for our long-term success.
Bob Ivell
Chairman
173
largely freehold, managed sites 
acquired from the Orchid Group  
in June 2014
43,000 
employees delighting our guests  
on a daily basis
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3
Strategic report 2–33 Governance  34–66 Financial statements  67–111 Shareholder  information  112
Chairman’s statement
