 Chairman’s  
statement
Right 
size
This has been a year of good 
progress within your business. 
We have strengthened the 
Board with three independent 
Non-Executive Directors, 
continued to make the changes 
necessary to transform the 
business from good to great, 
and delivered a 17% increase  
in adjusted earnings per share* . 
Whilst a number of challenges 
remain, we can look to the 
future with confidence.
Balanced  
transformation
We are now reshaping the business so 
that we can consistently deliver great 
service to our guests to drive repeat 
visits and recommendation, while 
delivering good financial results.
In FY 2012 we restructured our  
Retail Support Centre to reduce 
bureaucracy, speed up decision 
making and start the cultural  
change journey.
The value creation journey
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
02 This time last year, I wrote that my key focus  
for 2013 would be to enhance the balance, 
skills and compliance of the Board through  
the selection of appropriately qualified 
independent Non-Executive Directors.  
I am delighted therefore that during the  
last year we have appointed three Board 
Directors of exceptional capability.
Imelda Walsh has brought excellent people 
management and retailing skills to the Board 
and is therefore an ideal person to fill the role  
of our Remuneration Committee Chair. She has 
held senior executive roles at J Sainsbury plc, 
where she was Group HR Director from 2004 
to 2010, Barclays Bank plc and Coca-Cola & 
Schweppes Beverages Limited. She is a  
Non-Executive Director and Remuneration 
Committee Chair of both William Hill plc and 
Mothercare plc.
Colin Rutherford’s corporate finance and 
accountancy skills are already proving highly 
valuable to the Board, particularly in his role  
as our Audit Committee Chair. He was 
Executive Chairman of MAM Funds plc,  
a quoted fund management business from  
2009 to 2011, is a member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Scotland and  
has relevant experience in various public  
and private companies in the leisure and  
hospitality industries. He is currently  
Chairman of Brookgate Limited, European  
Care Group Limited and Teachers Media 
International Limited.
Stewart Gilliland’s senior management 
experience predominantly in the brewing 
sector is highly relevant to many of the 
challenges that our business faces. He was 
Chief Executive Officer of Muller Dairy (UK) 
Limited until 2010 and prior to that held senior 
management positions in InBev SA, Interbrew 
UK Limited and Whitbread plc. He is currently 
a Non-Executive Director of Booker Group plc, 
Sutton and East Surrey Water Co, Tulip Group 
Limited, Nature’s Way Foods Limited, C&C 
Group and Vianet Plc.
Since I was appointed Executive Chairman  
in October 2011, we have made significant 
improvements to our corporate governance. 
Over the past two years, the Board has 
recruited a strong leader in Alistair Darby  
and has strengthened the Board through the 
appointments of Eddie Irwin, Imelda, Colin and 
Stewart as Non-Executive Directors. In July, we 
finalised the membership of our Remuneration, 
Audit and Nomination Committees and have 
updated their terms of reference, which are 
now in line with current best practice. My focus 
will continue to be on further improvements  
in this area. An example is this Annual Report 
itself, which we have attempted to make  
more useful and understandable for our 
shareholders. Among other improvements,  
we have included a new remuneration report, 
provided more information on our market and 
our brands, extended our key performance 
indicators and included many of the new 
requirements of the revised UK Corporate 
Governance Code, a year earlier than required. 
I hope these changes prove helpful.
Balanced  
transformation
Accelerating
forward
As this transformation gains traction, 
the performance of the business will 
start to accelerate as we achieve our 
vision that guests love to eat and 
drink with us.
For further information go to the  
Chief Executive’s Market and  
Business Review on pages 22 to 27.
The Company is in discussions with the Trustee 
of the group pension schemes regarding the 
triennial actuarial valuation which is dated as  
at 31 March 2013, in order to agree the funding 
shortfall and schedule of contributions. We 
hope to conclude these discussions as quickly 
as possible whilst balancing the interests of all 
stakeholders.
Lastly, I would like to praise the efforts of  
our 40,000 employees. Our vision is that our 
guests love to eat and drink with us, and we  
are indebted to all of our people, from our 
restaurants, pubs and Retail Support Centre  
in Birmingham, as we work towards this.
We are now in the balanced transformation 
stage of our value creation journey. Over the 
last 12 months we have bedded in the 
organisational changes announced last year 
and refined our brand strategies in light of 
changing consumer and market dynamics.  
All this has been achieved whilst still growing 
sales, improving operating margin and growing 
adjusted EPS by 17%*. There remains a lot to  
do, but the progress we have already made 
gives me great confidence in the future.
Bob Ivell
Chairman
*  Adjusted EPS is stated before exceptional items  
and other adjustments. Growth against last year is 
compared to the 52 week adjusted EPS as detailed  
in the Financial Review.
03
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic and business review 07 – 34 Governance 35 – 64 Financial statements 65 – 106 Shareholder information 107 – 108 Company overview 01 – 05
