 10 MITIE Group PLC
Support Services has achieved strong organic
growth. Engineering Services has continued to
experience some difficulties in achieving an
acceptable margin within a highly competitive
market and, as we indicated in our Interim Report, 
a certain amount of restructuring has taken place
which produced a better outcome for the business
in the second half of the year. Property Services has
had an excellent year developing our position in the
social housing market, and we announced at the
end of March their success in gaining a substantial
repair and maintenance contract with Birmingham
City Council.
The performance of our individual operating
companies during the year is covered in more 
detail in the Chief Operating Officer’s Review. 
Strategy
MITIE has had a consistent strategy for a number of
years and we are confident that it is appropriate for
the challenging environment we face. The strategy
covers all aspects of MITIE including the markets in
which we operate, our customers, the people and
resources that we need, and our impact in terms of
corporate responsibility.
1. Organic growth
We operate in markets that are growing and are
fragmented. This enables MITIE to achieve good
levels of organic growth by taking market share
from competitors and benefiting from the increasing
trend towards the outsourcing of non-core services.
We are able to increase market share because of
the excellence of our services and the passion of
our employees, who are committed to supporting
our customers and helping them to achieve their
business goals. It is our aim to grow all of our
businesses to a level where our position in the
market is in the top five by size. 
2. Bundled services
There is a distinct movement towards bundled
services. We define a bundle as when a customer
has chosen to take more than one MITIE service 
on the same site rather than a full facilities
management service. This typically occurs when a
customer wishes to maintain an active involvement
in the management of their facilities but is looking 
to rationalise its supply chain. Bundles can start from
any of our MITIE businesses, particularly when we
have an excellent relationship with a customer on
site. Recent Building Services Research and
Information Association data shows that between
2002 and 2005 the proportion of contracts that are
run as bundles has increased from 20.0% to 30.0%. 
3. Acquisitions
We are continuing to look for acquisitions that 
fit with our range of services. When making 
an acquisition we pay particular attention to 
three issues:
a) Cultural fit – MITIE has a strong entrepreneurial
culture that has been built over the past 19 years.
We carefully evaluate whether the business
culture of any acquisition is similar to ours. This 
is primarily related to the approach at an
operational level, and to an obsession with
customer service, which involves listening to
customers’ needs, providing excellent services,
having a determination to succeed and a desire
to work closely with other MITIE businesses.
b) Opportunity for growth – The markets in which 
an acquisition takes place must have growth
potential. The majority of our recent acquisitions
have been in the manned guarding market. 
We believe that with the increasing awareness of
security matters and the impact of the licensing
of the security industry, there will be ongoing
changes in this sector which will create
opportunities for us. 
c) Quality of management – The success of MITIE
has come from the strength and motivation of 
its management teams. We always consider the
abilities of the management when looking at
potential acquisitions, to ensure they will fit with
the rest of the Group and have the ability to run
and grow their business independently.
4. The ‘MITIE model’
This year we have started three companies in the
Property Services, Business Services and Catering
divisions. Start-up companies tend to have very high
rates of growth, but their impact on the Group’s
growth rates will be progressively reduced. We
believe that the opportunities provided to the
managers of our start-up companies should also 
be available to those in our more mature businesses
where they have not had an equity stake. It is our
intention to extend the ethos of the ‘MITIE model’
through our Second Generation Equity Plan. We
recapitalised our Cleaning business with Shareholder
approval in 2004 and we intend to seek Shareholder
approval to recapitalise Property Services in 2006. 
Chief Executive’s
Review
It has been a year of great progress within MITIE. We were particularly
delighted to acquire the manned guarding business of Rentokil Initial
towards the end of the year. This acquisition will transform our security
business and after integration with our existing security companies, 
it will have revenue in excess of £200m. 
Strategy
1. Organic growth
2. Bundled services
3. Acquisitions
4. The ‘MITIE model’
5. Invest in our people
6. New markets
7. Corporate responsibility
Organic growth by service
Support Services     11.7%
Engineering            11.2%
Property Services                      26.6% 1
2
3
4
5
6
13
7
8
9
10
11
12
MITIE Group PLC 11
5. Invest in our people
To ensure that our customers receive quality service,
and that we have the right skills in the business
going forward, we regularly evaluate the abilities of
our employees and provide them with appropriate
training and development. We have also expanded
our core skills competency, so that we are able to
offer additional services. We prepare for growth and
change within MITIE by maintaining succession plans
for all of our businesses.
6. New markets
There are some customers that prefer to work with
businesses who specialise in their sector, such as
retail, transport and social housing. We have structured
our businesses to ensure that we meet the needs of
those customers and have achieved good results to
date. We will establish additional specialist
businesses where appropriate and anticipate that
this strategy will produce strong profitable growth.
7. Corporate responsibility
It is becoming increasingly important for a business
to be able to demonstrate that it behaves in a way
that is responsible in terms of how it treats its
employees, interacts with customers and suppliers,
relates to the community and charities, and manages
relationships with other stakeholders. MITIE is a
responsible business and is producing a separate
Corporate Responsibility Report for the first time this
year, which will be published with our Annual Report
and Accounts. This report will also be available on
our website, www.mitie.co.uk
Forward order book
MITIE has benefited from the longer term nature 
of many of our contracts. The contracts in Support
Services have an average term of three years and
this is now lengthening, with several extending to
five years or more. Property Services has an order
book that is increasing rapidly, as a consequence 
of its success in winning social housing partnering
contracts, and Engineering Services has a high level
of its revenue secured for 2006. The overall percentage
of budgeted Group revenue secured for 2007 is
72.0%, compared to 70.0% last year. 
Markets
We have always maintained that MITIE benefits 
from having a broad mix of customers, and that 
this spread reduces our risk in terms of potential
downturns in a sector. We also believe that a good
balance between public and private sector work
provides protection from any particular changes in
government policy. 
People
We place great emphasis on the development 
of our people. Without a motivated workforce to
satisfy customers, we do not have a business. We
now employ over 39,000 people and are immensely
proud of their achievements. The management of
such a large and diverse, skilled and semi-skilled
workforce is our core competency and we have
very robust processes in place to manage both 
the efficiency and development of our employees. 
We have a range of training and management
development programmes in place across the
Group. These vary from very specific training, such
as the usage of chemicals for our pest control
operatives, to customer service training for our
receptionists in Business Services, to senior
management strategy courses. We also recognise
the achievements of our employees with several
award schemes, which cover all our employees
across the Group.
MITIE is aware that as the economy grows there will
be skills shortages in some of the trades we need.
We are therefore establishing a network of MITIE Skills
Centres in secondary schools across the UK, where
we are supporting vocational skills training. We
established four in 2005 and will be opening another
four in 2006. We are also working closely with
regional development agencies, such as the East
London Business Alliance, to recruit apprentices into
MITIE businesses.
I would like to thank our employees personally for
their hard work and dedication over the past year
and their contribution towards this very good set 
of results.
Future prospects
MITIE is in excellent shape for future growth. 
We have a very strong management team, a
substantial customer base in growing markets, 
a motivated and passionate workforce, and 
a business model that is sufficiently flexible to 
react to market changes. Our markets will 
remain competitive, but the agility of our
management and their leadership will enable 
MITIE to continue growing.
There is an energy and spirit in MITIE that is 
very rare and this makes me very positive about 
our prospects. 
Ian R Stewart
Chief Executive Officer
Forward order book
Revenue by market sector
03 64.0%
04 67.0%
05 70.0%
06 72.0%
Forward order book is the
percentage of revenue
secured for the following
financial year as at 31 March.
1. Commercial
2. Finance and professional
3. Leisure and entertainment
4. Manufacturing
5. Retail
6. Science and technology
7. Utilities
8. Social housing
9. Local authority
10.Healthcare
11.Government
12.Education
13.Defence
