 12 MITIE Group PLC
Chief Operating
Officer’s Review
M MITIE SUPPORT SERVICES
Support Services encompasses a number of
complementary services including Cleaning,
Catering, Landsc cape, Pest Control, Security,
Managed Services, Business Services and
Engineering Maintenance.
It has had an excellent year with major single and
bundled service contract awards for Engineering
Maintenance and Security, and with key
acquisitions in Security and Landscape.
2006 2005 Growth
£m £m £m %
Revenue 516.0 440.2 75.8 17.2
Segment  
operating profit 32.8 29.1 3.7 12.7
MITIE CLEANING
Cleaning provides services to offices, industrial
buildings, transport, healthcare facilities and retail
premises. Services include window cleaning,
computer cleaning, food hygiene, recycling and
waste management.
Cleaning has performed in line with expectations
and has had a good year, achieving organic
growth of 7.9%. 
During the year Cleaning reviewed its customer
base and, in response to customers’ changing
needs, has separated the management of its
national contracts from that of its site managed
contracts. Two new customer orientated services
have been created – ‘Connect’, which focuses 
on larger site managed contracts, and ‘Cleaning
and National Accounts’, which delivers single 
and multi-site contracts through the national
infrastructure of the business. Our newly structured
business has been recapitalised in line with the MITIE
Second Generation Equity Plan.
Major contract awards for Cleaning across the UK
include those at Celtic Football Club and Queen
Margaret University College. In the South, significant
contract awards include Motorola and Sutton
Council. In London we secured a new contract 
with UBS. 
Business re-tendered and retained in the year
included our contracts at Yorkshire Water Services,
United Utilities, Kellogg’s and Homebase. Our
contract at the Historic Royal Palaces was extended
to include both cleaning and waste management
at The Tower of London. A further major extension
from a renewed contract was at Barclays Bank,
where the scope of our work was extended from
607 to 1,211 branches.
Outside the traditional Cleaning offering, MITIE
Waste & Environmental provides specialist
environmental advice and services to over 700 sites.
This is an increasingly important differentiator in the
market and initiatives, such as the TREEHUGGER™,
have proved to be very popular with clients. This
desktop recycling facility sold almost 25,000 units 
last year.
The profile of MITIE Waste & Environmental has been
raised by the external recognition it has received for
its services. In November 2005, the business won four
awards, including one gold and two silver Green
Apple accolades for environmental best practice.
MITIE Waste & Environmental also won the prestigious
Sustainability Category at the Premises and Facilities
Management Partnership Awards for its contract
with Hewlett-Packard. Together with our customer
we have been working on the development of a
sustainable workplace, by improving the recycling
capacity of the Hp Invent plant in Scotland. 
MITIE also won two Kimberley-Clark Golden Service
Awards during the year. Firstly, the Best Cleaned
Office (below 15,000 square feet) Award, which was
for our contract with Birmingham Midshires Building
Society, and secondly, the Best Cleaned Transport
Facility, which was in recognition of our contract
with Dover Harbour Board.
We anticipate continued progress for this business in
2006/07, with further strong growth expected in
Retail and Transport Cleaning. 
MITIE has seen another year of double digit growth and strong
financial performances. Our Support Services and Property Services
businesses have performed exceptionally well and we are pleased 
to report recovery within our Engineering business. 
We have made a number of important acquisitions during the year,
dominated by the acquisition of Initial Security Ltd, which provide
scale and growth opportunities for our Security and Landscape
operations. We remain well placed to continue our strategy of
profitable growth, investment and service excellence.
Cleaning Services:
Our award winning
Cleaning business, 
which employs over
20,000 people, 
services the Palace 
of Westminster , 
the Scottish Parliament
and the Welsh Assembly. Over one million vehicles per annum go through MITIE
controlled gatehouses at Gist.
supplying Gist with security services.
The current contract, originally mobilised by Initial Security Ltd, sees us providing a
range of guarding services to 14 Gist sites throughout the UK, supporting them to
ensure that their environment is both efficient and safe. The range of services we offer
across the sites include, access and egre ess control, asset protection, front of house
duties and monitoring traffic movements, provided by al lmost 100 employees and a
dedicated specialist contract manager to oversee work on sites. We add valu ue by
integrating technology to improve the efficiency of the guarding activity, providing
continuity y of service and by linking into the Gist business to aid the performance 
of their sites. We also wr rite newsletters and hold quarterly and annual awards in
partnership with our client and work closely y with them to resolve any security or 
safety concerns.
we guard
assets... In December 2005 MITIE served over 9,700 customers
and sold 1,338 of our home made muffins.
with our catering at Hamleys Toy Store.
At the end of 2005, MITIE was awarded a five-year contract to provide Hamleys with
catering services s, offering hospitality for visitors, bespoke catering for children’s
parties, as well as catering fo or product launches and events in the store. MITIE’s vision
to create something different for our cli ient did not stop at originality and commitment
to fresh food and nutrition. As part of our partnersh hip and dedication to innovation, we
invested in the refurbishment of the Hamleys café bar and instal lled a new Kids Zone,
designed to enable us to provide an educational experience for children who vis sit the
store, inviting them to spend time with the Chef and get involved in cooking. The Kids
Zone n not only teaches but also entertains, with events such as ‘Halloween Lunch’ or
‘Brunch with Santa’, k keeping over 500 children amused across the school holidays at
the end of last year.
we feed
imaginations... MITIE Group PLC 15
M MITIE CATERING
Catering offers hospitality and executive dining,
vending, consultancy services and employee
caterin ng to a wide range of clients across the UK.
Catering has continued its growth in event catering
and has seen an encouraging level of interest from
prospective clients, particularly in niche commercial
catering contracts within visitor attractions and 
retail venues. 
In London our start-up business is developing well
and has won a number of exciting new contracts.
These include the café in Hamleys toy superstore on
Regent Street, London, and the Jaeger café, which
is also located on Regent Street in their flagship
store. The new Jaeger café opens in Summer 2006.
The menu has been designed to reflect fair trade
produce, which is organic, fresh and seasonal.
These are important factors for Jaeger corporate
clients who will have the opportunity to hire the café
for special events. 
In London, Bayerische Hypo-und Vereinsbank AG will
also be employing Catering for their new Moorgate
building, which operates a café bar and provides
hospitality for some 500 members of staff, while for
the Landflex contract the business will provide
hospitality, vending and café services across their
new estate, which so far comprises four buildings.
Current bidding activity is focused on the increasing
demand for corporate catering within a client’s
building, which typically has limited facilities but
requires high quality food service. We have,
however, also seen a rise in the number of tenders
for significant multi-site national catering contracts,
an area previously restricted to the larger national
catering companies. 
We believe this shift is largely attributable to the fact
that Catering now has national operational reach.
An example of the type of national contract being
sought is the NTL Incorporated catering contract,
which was awarded to Catering in January 2006.
The contract spans twelve sites including Belfast,
Glasgow, Teeside, Manchester, Nottingham, Luton,
Hook and Swansea. 
Market conditions remain challenging and
competition is strong, but we are pleased to have
developed a good pipeline of new and existing
contracts. Catering will continue to pursue organic
growth in 2006/07 and will look to achieve a higher
market share going forward. 
M MITIE LANDSCAPE
Landscape encompasses a traditional range of
services including grounds maintenance, sports
ground a and leisure facilities care, exterior landscape
design, installation and maintenance, including golf
c courses. The business also provides arboriculture
and interior tropical plant services. 
Landscape performed well during the year and
achieved organic growth of 120.0%.
In February 2006, we acquired the grounds
maintenance business, Lyndhurst Services Ltd
(Lyndhurst). Serving commercial property sites across
the UK, Lyndhurst complements MITIE’s existing
landscaping and grounds maintenance business,
and has significantly increased its ability to provide
customers with a broader range of services. The
acquisition has expanded the scale of this business
and it is now bidding for larger, national contracts.
New work secured this year includes five-year
contracts with both the City of York Council and
West Lindsey District Council, and an additional two
years for the national Lloyds TSB contract, which
sees our northern and southern businesses working
together on Landscape’s largest secured contract.
We have also renewed our contracts at BOC
headquarters in Surrey and the UK Government
Home Office contract.
Landscape is also working with its MITIE PFI
colleagues on the Ealing Schools project and, in
addition, has secured work to landscape other new
schools with Costain, the international engineering
and construction group.
This business will benefit from the acquisition of
Lyndhurst and we anticipate continued growth 
in 2006/07.
Landscape Services:
We acquired grounds
maintenance business,
Lyndhurst Services
Limited, in February
2006 for £8.8m.
Catering Services:
Our NTL Incorporated
contract is operated
across twelve locations
spanning England,
Wales, Scotland and
Northern Ireland.
Chief Operating Officer’s Review continued 16 MITIE Group PLC
MITIE PEST CONTROL
Pest Control offers insect, bird and other pest
management services.
The pest control market remains very competitive
with the largest two operators continuing to dominate. 
During the year Pest Control, which has contracts
with Compass Group for its service facilities at
Twickenham Stadium in London and the Millennium
Stadium in Cardiff, has won a number of new
contracts, which include those with Balfour Beatty
Construction and Meridian Healthcare.
Going forward the pest control market is likely to
remain very fragmented, and we will therefore look
to improve margins by expanding our skills base and
service offering.
MITIE SECURITY
Security provides static guarding, electronic and
mobile guarding, gallery attendants, front of hous se
and warden services, key holding, consultancy and
remote monitoring services for its clients.
This has been an excellent year for Security with
three acquisitions and strong organic growth in our
existing business. The organic growth rate was 17.8%.
In May 2005, we acquired Intruder International Ltd
(Intruder), a specialist provider of electronic security
solutions, and in June 2005 acquired Midlands
based The Watch Security Ltd (The Watch). The
purchase of The Watch, a manned guarding and
electronic security business, completed our national
footprint in the sector. The acquisition enabled
Security to offer a more comprehensive service to
clients, and consequently compete for larger
national contracts. While our security business is still
primarily focused on the manned guarding sector,
the acquisition of Intruder and strategic alliances
with security consultancy companies has meant
that Security is better able to provide its customers
with total security solutions. An example of this is our
expanded contract with the Department for
Communities and Local Government, formerly the
Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, where the
manned guarding provision is now being
complemented by a high-tech electronic security
system provided by Intruder.
In March 2006, MITIE acquired Initial Security Ltd (ISL),
a leading UK manned guarding company whose
services include contract guarding, aviation
security, key holding, patrol and alarm response
services. Its client base covers a wide range of
sectors from government and commercial to
industrial and retail. Providing services at over 2,000
sites, more than 6,000 staff throughout the UK
transferred to MITIE from ISL. The acquisition has
added specialist aviation and retail work to
Security’s portfolio of services and has further
strengthened its regional operations. 
The acquisition of ISL has transformed Security and 
it is now the second largest manned guarding
business in the UK. The integration plan is progressing
well and we expect to realise significant synergy
benefits across the business. While the acquisition is
expected to be earnings enhancing in the year
ending 31 March 2007, the benefits of the cost
savings will be absorbed by the integration costs in
the first full year of ownership. The financial benefits
of integration are therefore expected to be realised
in the financial year ending 31 March 2008.
On 20 March 2006 it became illegal, in England and
Wales, to work as or supply a contracted manned
security officer without a Security Industry Authority
(SIA) licence. This change to the industry’s legislative
framework has seen our investment in training
rewarded as Security has met all the SIA licensing
deadlines, becoming one of the first companies to
achieve Approved Contractor Status (ACS).
This has been a very exciting year for 
Security, and our focus is now on integrating 
our acquisition and consolidating our national
presence. We will look to capitalise on our
investments and expect good growth in the future. 
Chief Operating Officer’s Review continued
Pest Control Services:
MITIE Pest Control
provides services for
Twickenham Stadium
in London and the
Millennium Stadium 
in Cardiff.
Security Services:
We spent £82.8m on
security acquisitions in
2005/06 and are now
the second largest
manned guarding
business in the UK. MITIE cuts over 90 million square metres of grass 
every year.
providing landscaping services for DTZ across the UK.
Three years, plus 28 industrial estates, retail parks and office complexes, and 
45 employees, equal ls one landscaping contract with property advisors DTZ
Debenham Tie Leung. Our acquisition of Lyndhur rst Services Limited on 17 February
2006, a company providing external grounds maintenance services a across England,
Scotland and Wales and employing over 240 people, also brought many contracts 
to com mmercial property sites. We keep DTZ’s real estate looking good, providing
landscape maintenance and  external cleaning services like litter picking and
sweeping, to varied sites across the UK as part of a three year contract. We offer
added value by assigning dedicated Client Account Managers to each Facilities
Manager at DTZ as well as keeping our customer up to date with regular site reports,
all lowing them to monitor the condition of their portfolio.
we maintain
images... with our cleaning services for Transport for London, 
London Bus Services Limited. 
London Bus Services Limited has an immense cleaning requirement, with over 6,600
glass bus shelters  and more than 18,800 bus stops throughout the capital. Most of 
the work needs to be carried out dur ring the night to ensure our client can run their
business as smoothly as possible for the public it  services. MITIE manages the contract
via several dedicated managers and administrators, who are supp ported by night
supervisors and mobile teams. All employees involved are focused on delivering
qualit ty services, which include cleaning all bus shelters on a fortnightly basis, all 
stops on a quarterl ly basis and all shelter roofs twice a year. To further enhance the
standards maintained, specialised reaction teams are deployed to perform duties
including the removal of graffiti from shelters and s stops, the posting of bus timetable
information and publicity material. We have also designed and imp plemented a
sophisticated routing device to ensure the most productive working patterns are
adopted b by employees.
we put wheels
in motion...
MITIE’s cleaning services enhance the 6.3 million bus
journeys Londoners make every weekday. MITIE provides FM services to other governmental
departments, including the Department for
Communities and Local Government, formerly the
Office of the Deputy Prime Minister.
delivering facilities management services to the Department
for Culture, Media and Sport.
Providing FM services to four buildings for the Department for Culture, Media and Sport
(DCMS) in ce entral London means we’re in the business of backing dreams. With over
50 full and part-time employee es delivering services, such as FM management, 
front of house, helpdesk and cleaning, MITIE is helpi ing the government concentrate 
on making the Olympics a success, as well as supporting all the department’s other
activities. Outsourcing these services to us and knowing that they are in trusted 
han nds, means that DCMS can focus on their core business. They know that we can
bring subject experts on nboard, like our Energy Manager, who has worked in close
partnership with our client to develop an en nergy plan which will lead to significant
cost savings over two years and energy savings in the regio on of 496 tonnes of 
carbon dioxide. 
we champion
dreams... We distribute and archive over 3.6 million documents
for the bank each year.
at Morgan Stanley with our business services offering.
We’ve been providing Morgan Stanley with mail room and archiving services since
August 2004. Our ach hievements to date include; the introduction of a customer
services desk to provide a single point of contact for all services and an automatic
call distribution system to manage the flow of incoming e enquiries; the streamlining 
of the internal mail sortation process; the introduction of a dedicated  distribution
service for Investment Banking reprographics work; and the installation of our
auditabl le electronic mail tracking system.
We have a 38 strong workforce that services six buildings in Cana ary Wharf, covering
6.00am to 11.00pm five days a week. Our employees add value, not only by listenin ng
to the client and ensuring the service provided meets with their needs, but by
constantly endeavouring to introduce initiatives to enhance the services and further
reduce costs.
we deliver
results... MITIE Group PLC 21
M MITIE MANAGED SERVICES
Managed Services encompasses facilities
management, building and estate management,
integrated servi ice delivery, PFI (Private Finance
Initiative) service delivery, procurement and supplier
evaluations s, and consultancy to a wide range of
customers across a number of sectors.
Managed Services has had a very good year
making a considerable improvement in its
profitability and winning new contracts which will
impact the next financial year.
Managed Services secured a three-year contract
with the Department for Culture, Media and Sport,
delivering facilities management, full maintenance
and fabric services to four of their buildings in
central London. This contract has been further
extended at the end of the year to cover the 
Big Lottery Fund buildings in Birmingham, Newcastle,
Glasgow and London. It was also awarded a
contract with T-Mobile that covers ten major 
T-Mobile buildings, 15 switch centres and 130 retail
outlets across the UK. 
Managed Services has recently launched an Energy
Awareness initiative with the National Offender
Management Service (NOMS) at their offices in
Staffordshire and Nottingham. With the ultimate aim
being to establish best practice in all NOMS offices
throughout the UK, the initiative has been designed
to make employees more aware of their environment,
encouraging energy efficient behaviour both in the
home and the workplace. 
With the growing number of customers seeking
external strategic advice on energy use 
in the business place, we have grown the
management team to accommodate the rise 
in demand. 
The business has been awarded six new PFI school
projects where it provides full facilities management
services. MITIE has not taken equity participation in
these projects. The contracts vary in length, but are
all between 25 to 30 years. The total number of PFI
education facilities services contracts awarded to
MITIE now equates to some 15% of the total market,
which positions the business as a market leader in its
specific sector.
Overall, the business has had a very profitable year
and is well placed for further growth.
M MITIE BUSINESS SERVICES
Business Services provides mail room management,
reception and switchboard facilities services,
reco ords management, reprographics, print
management and distribution management, 
to its clients.
Business Services has seen a definitive shift in the
market towards bundled services and with its broad
service offering, the business has achieved some
major contract awards. Business Services now
provides customers with a full spectrum of
document management services ranging from
creative design to digital and lithographic printing
through to logistics and distribution services from its
document solutions and mail solutions centres. 
Our bundled Business Services offering with other
MITIE areas of expertise continues to be a significant
advantage for Business Services. It has recently
delivered success in a new Business Services
contract at the European Headquarters of The Walt
Disney Company, which is a bundled solution for the
provision of their mail, switchboard, reception,
cleaning services and maintenance. 
Our mail services, reprographics and porterage
contract at the London Stock Exchange was also
extended in the year for a further three years and
has now been bundled with services from Cleaning.
Our reprographics contract at the international
investment bank, ABN Amro, was expanded in the
year and now includes the provision of mail services.
It is now one of the largest contracts for the business
in the City of London. 
Law firm Osborne Clarke awarded Business Services
a bundled services contract for their prestigious 
new London offices where the business provides
reception, catering and cleaning. Business Services
was also recently appointed by 3i to manage the
mail, reprographics and cleaning services at their
new headquarters in Victoria, London.
The largest contract award for Business Services
during the year has been at PricewaterhouseCoopers
with the award of a five-year contract for document
management, distribution services, reprographic
services, mail and record management which is
valued at over £50m. 
Business Services has introduced a new suite of
technology tools. These build on the success
experienced with previous systems, which had been
developed over the past six years and are amongst
the most advanced in the marketplace. The new
offering delivers many of the tools to client desktops,
via the internet or client intranets, and includes print
submission, courier shipping, document tracking and
stationery ordering. 
Overall, Business Services has had a good twelve
months in terms of business development. The
outlook remains very positive and we believe there
are many exciting opportunities in the future.
Business Services:
Our Pricewaterhouse
Coopers contract is
the largest Business
Services’ contract win
to date and is worth in
excess of £50m.
Chief Operating Officer’s Review continued
Managed Services:
MITIE Managed
Services won six new
PFI school projects in
2005/06 and the total
forward order book
associated with these
projects is valued
today at c. £280m. 22 MITIE Group PLC
MITIE ENGINEERING MAINTENANCE
Engineering Maintenance provides heating, 
lighting, ventilation and air conditioning
maintenance, m mechanical and electrical systems,
boiler maintenance, plumbing and water hygiene,
and estate mainten nance to a variety of clients
throughout the UK.
Engineering Maintenance has delivered a strong
performance during the year, experiencing an
exceptional level of organic growth at 38.8%. 
New contracts include those at four United States
Air Force bases in England, and at the Paddington
Central and Sheldon Square project. The latter
contract, which began in January 2006, comprises
mechanical and engineering maintenance services
with some small property maintenance work in both
commercial and residential accommodation. 
The business also secured work, in December 2005,
with the University of the Arts in London where it is
providing mechanical and engineering maintenance
services and property maintenance work for the
University property portfolio of 21 buildings. 
New contracts, which have been awarded, 
but not yet started, include those at the 
Fort Shopping Centre in Birmingham and at Vertex,
a subsidiary of United Utilities where we provide
services to buildings in London, the Midlands, 
the North of England and Scotland under a 
three-year contract.
Re-tendered business includes a twelve-month
contract with the UK Government Foreign and
Commonwealth Office, at their buildings in London
and Hanslope Park. Contracts with Microsoft, 
which is bundled with Cleaning, and the Alliance
and Leicester were also re-secured during the
period, while the scope of the AIG contract, 
which was originally for two buildings in London, 
has significantly increased to cover all their 
regional offices.
Engineering Maintenance continues to provide
extensive bundling opportunities for the Group,
acting as a springboard for our full range of services.
We were recently awarded a three-year contract
with the Bank of England, for their sports facilities,
which will be mobilised in conjunction with
Cleaning. Our maintenance contract with Dell
Computers, has been expanded to include their
City Park complex in Glasgow and now includes
work for Cleaning.
Engineering Maintenance has had an exceptional
year and we remain confident of further success
and progress for the business in 2006/07. 
MITIE PROPERTY SERVICES
Property Services provides refurbishment 
and interior fit-out work, office furniture, painting,
rep pair and maintenance, roofing, plastering,
partitioning, industrial flooring, and fire protection to
c clients. The recent Birmingham City Council contract
is an excellent demonstration of the success the e
business is achieving in Social Housing, which
by its nature encompasses many of Property
Services’ ’ activities.
2006 2005 Growth
£m £m £m %
Revenue 163.5 129.1 34.4 26.6
Segment operating 
profit 8.9 7.6 1.3 17.1
Property Services has had a very good year with
significant growth in turnover and profits. Organic
growth was up at 26.6%. There has, however, been
some pressure on profitability, which is likely to
continue this year as the work mix moves towards
social housing. 
The particular success in the year is the recently
awarded Birmingham City Council Social Housing
contract, which is worth in excess of £90m over four
years, with an option to extend for an additional
three years. The contract commenced on 
1 April 2006 and covers the repair and maintenance
of housing in the southern area of the city. This
covers 27,000 properties and involves over 80,000
repairs per annum. 
In addition, Property Services also mobilised a
contract with Milton Keynes Council to provide
responsive and void property repairs to its entire
portfolio of 12,000 homes. The five-year contract
started on 1 April 2006 and is estimated to be worth
in excess of £25m with an option for the Council to
extend for an additional five years.
Property Services is working with Yorkshire Coast
Homes, Southampton City Council, the Glasgow
Housing Association and Leeds City Council
amongst many others and in total the business now
holds contracts with over 150 local authority and
housing associations throughout the UK.
Market conditions for this division remain
encouraging with social housing and the fit-out
sector in London being particularly buoyant. 
The outlook for the business is very positive. 
Chief Operating Officer’s Review continued
Property Services:
We provide Repair and
Maintenance to some
27,000 properties as
part of our new
Birmingham City
Council contract.
Engineering
Maintenance
This business has given
a strong performance
during the year and
experienced an
exceptional level 
of organic growth 
at 38.8%. In 2005, MITIE responded to 2,673 call outs for ants
and 1,869 for wasps.
providing pest control for Homeserve.
MITIE provides Homeserve with a general pest control service for reactive call outs to
residential properties across the UK. We have not only reduced our client’s costs, but
added value by offering co onsistency of service across the UK, providing a 24 hour
helpline for the end user and cutting down o on Homeserve’s administration. What’s
more, we have also ensured a complete control programme is in place, as opposed
to a one-off visit for each pest problem. MITIE has more than 60 technicians servic cing
the contract across the UK, who are ably supported on the helpdesk by our Pest
Control division’ ’s office staff in Cheltenham. Employees were rewarded for the high
level of service provided when Ho omeserve presented MITIE with an award at their
annual ‘Contractor of the Year 2005’ event.
we take the
sting out... Every year MITIE helps maintains the ideal environment
for the NBS to collect, test, process, store and issue over
1.9 million blood donations from 1.6 million donors.
providing engineering maintenance to the National Blood
Service.
Following a review of its M&E maintenance activities, the National Blood Service (NBS)
decided to pr rocure its support services through competitive tender, choosing to
partner with MITIE. From an initi ial contract for the provision of M&E services to four
regional NBS centres at Newcastle, Leeds, Sheffield and Manchester, MITIE has since
extended the work to include a further 18 satellite buildings. . We deliver comprehensive
Planned Preventative Maintenance and Emergency Reactive Support, as well a as
general and essential services ranging from fire alarms, generators, heating and
ventilation to water treatment, and fixed wire testing. We work in close partnership with
our client to ensure our employees are correctly inducted and fully understand the
key processes and national operations requir red to support the National Blood Service. 
we keep the
blood flowing... MITIE completed engineering work for more than
110 establishments in the education sector in 2005.
with our engineering services at Bristol University.
MITIE has been associated with Bristol University as the provider of Mechanical and
Electrical insta allations since 1996, when it completed the installation of the heating
equipment at the famous Wills Memorial Building. The success of this project secured
our position as the M&E Building Services contractor, assisting our client’s consulting
team to design and build the University’s prestigious Synthetic Chemistry buildings; 
a landmark project under the national engineering contract, created to o promote
partnering. This not only featured as a test case in the UK Government’s Egan Report,
which h looked to make recommendations for reform to ensure increased industry
efficiency, but also cemente ed our relationship with the University, with MITIE
completing more than 15 contracts to date. 
we enlighten
minds... In 2005, MITIE worked with more than 150 social
housing providers with a combined housing stock of
over 800,000 properties.
at Partick Housing Association with our responsive
maintenance services.
MITIE signed a responsive maintenance partnering agreement with Partick Housing
Association, representing one of the largest ever community investments of its kind in
Scotland. The partnership aims to o significantly improve the level of housing maintenance
service received by the Association’s 3,000  residents. Under the four year ‘MITIE/Partick
partnership’, MITIE will provide responsive property m maintenance and refurbishment
services to approximately 1,700 of the Association’s owned houses, and more than 1,300
privately owned properties in Glasgow. The work includes plumbing, electrical rewiri ing,
glazing, carpentry, heating, building works and improvement programmes, such as
bathroom and kit tchen refurbishments within void properties. Under the social housing
partnering arrangement, standards of service have been set so that residents can be
assured of a consistent high level of service.  As a result, residents and property owners
will benefit from a co-ordinated approach to the improvem ment of their property, which 
in turn will help to increase the desirability and value of housing in n their area.
we maintain
standards... MITIE Group PLC 27
M MITIE ENGINEERING SERVICES
Engineering Services covers the installation of
mechanical and electrical systems, information and
communication technology, air conditioning, utilities
infrastructure and retail engineering, serving a a wide
range of clients from many different sectors. 
2006 2005 Growth
£m £m £m %
Revenue 256.1 230.4 25.7 11.2
Segment operating 
profit 6.4 7.6 (1.2) (15.8)
Engineering Services has experienced a challenging
year, but margins improved in the second half of the
year. During the period we closed the Engineering
Services ‘Cleanrooms’ and ‘Scientific Projects’
businesses, and restructured operations in the
Midlands and Leeds. The restructured business has
achieved organic growth of 11.2%.
Engineering Services, has a strong forward order
book largely consisting of repeat work from blue
chip clients. The business has contracts with
Rhondda Hospital, the University of Manchester and
IBM, amongst others, and has grown its existing
contracts with a number of clients including
Plymouth University and Land Securities Trillium.
Social housing, technology, retail and utilities work
has been very encouraging and the business has 
a pipeline of repeat orders that extends into 2008. 
During the year, the business has been involved in 
a number of exciting projects including the Thomas
Deacon City Academy in Peterborough. This
prestigious new Academy was designed by Lord
Foster and Engineering Services was appointed to
work with Laing O’Rourke on the mechanical and
electrical design and installation package. 
In London, the business was appointed as the 
sub-contractor for mechanical and electrical work
on the new Victoria and Albert Museum garden. 
This work has now been completed and the garden
was officially opened by HRH the Prince of Wales
and will be used for corporate functions throughout
the summer.
While this has been a challenging year, our
restructured business has a good forward order
book. Margins in this business still remain under
pressure and improving them remains the focus
going forward. 
Future prospects
During the period we have seen strong performances
from MITIE Support Services and MITIE Property
Services. MITIE Engineering Services has had a
challenging year, but steps have been taken to
ensure it is better positioned for the future and we
are starting to see the benefits of this.
The quality and strength of our individual businesses
and people continues to drive growth in turnover
and profits for the Group. By focusing on our
customers, and their needs, we are confident that
we can grow our business and our market share
further. We will continue our track record of success
throughout this financial year by building on our
strengths, concentrating on the integration of our
recent acquisitions and growing our bundled 
service offering.
We have a strong customer focus that provides 
a solid basis for profitable growth in the future.
R Ruby McGregor-Smith
Chief Operating Officer
Chief Operating Officer’s Review continued
Engineering Services:
MITIE Engineering
Services has
restructured operations
and is focused on
margin improvement.
