 The business, its markets, values and strategy
The MITIE start-up model
MITIE is now 18 years old and has started over 80
companies in accordance with the MITIE model.
However, we still receive many requests to explain
how the model works. 
In principle the model has not changed since we
started, although there have been several refine-
ments. The process normally develops as follows:
1. We will identify a team that wants the opport-
unity to run their own business.
2. Provided that their business idea fits with our
strategy and does not conflict with any of our
existing businesses, we interview the team. If we
like the team they prepare a business plan which
then follows an approval process and is signed
off by the Board.
3. The business plan determines the capital require-
ment. MITIE invests at least 51% of the initial
capital required and the management team
invests the balance. 
4. A limited company is established, placed in the
structure depending on the business activity
being pursued, sponsored by a PLC Director 
and supported by the Head Office team.
5. The team grow their business over the next five
to ten years.
6. Between the fifth year and the tenth year the
minority shareholders have an opportunity to
serve a transfer notice on MITIE Group PLC to
earn out their minority interest, which MITIE
Group PLC may or may not accept. This must be
done within seven to 14 days after our AGM.
7. In order to calculate the value of the minority
stake in the business we use a multiple of ten
times post-tax profits averaged over the previous
two years, or three years depending on the type of
business. The consideration is paid in either cash
or MITIE Group PLC shares at the Board’s option.
8. If the consideration is paid in MITIE Group PLC
shares they cannot be traded for two years post
the earn-out, but the owners are entitled to
receive dividends.
9. The management team stays in place after the
earn-out and continue to grow the business and
progress their career within MITIE.
The model continues to attract entrepreneurial
managers who want to run their own business
in MITIE.
Overview
MITIE has had a good year and I am pleased with
the progress that we have made. 
“As MITIE grows we need to provide
our businesses with an increasingly
robust support team. During the 
year we have reinforced the central
team by recruiting a number of 
additional specialists.”
1. Our forward order book has increased with 70%
of budgeted revenue secured for the financial
year 2005/2006.
2. We have experienced good levels of contract
renewals across all businesses.
3. Cleaning has been successfully restructured.
4. The recent acquisitions have been successfully
integrated and their financial contribution is 
better than we expected.
5. In the final step of the strategy to exit capital-
intensive activities we sold our entire sharehold-
ing in MITIE Generation Ltd (‘Generation’) to a
management buyout team on 30 September 2004.
6. During the year we have built a corporate 
development team focused on acquisitions.
7. We have moved our head office to a more 
modern building at Emersons Green, north of
Bristol, just four miles from Bristol Parkway 
station. As MITIE grows we need to provide our
businesses with an increasingly robust support
team. During the year we have reinforced 
the central team by recruiting a number of 
additional specialists.
8. We have set up a new department of Corporate
Responsibility. 
Chief Executive’s Review
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 05 Our values
Since MITIE started there has been a set of values
that has enabled our entrepreneurial and motivated
managers to grow the business successfully. They
have been centred on the three core principles of
Focus, Connect and Achieve: 
■ Focus on our goals and those of our customers;
■ Connect with our customers at all levels to 
fulfil their needs; and
■ Achieve success by consistently delivering 
a quality service.
The application of these values has enabled the
business to grow consistently. Over the years we
have developed the values so that our employees
understand them clearly and are able to apply them
to their daily work. 
Our strategy
Our strategy remains:
1. Grow our existing businesses organically and
increase the amount of bundled services that 
we provide;
2. Start new companies in accordance with the
equity model;
3. Make acquisitions in our markets when suitable
companies are identified;
4. Invest in market sectors, such as education and
social housing, where those markets offer good
potential; and
5. Expand our core skills competency so that we
are able to offer additional services.
Helping make a great first impression in reception
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Our major markets
MITIE operates across the UK and has customers in
all major market sectors. Currently 40% of our work
comes from the public sector and 60% from the 
private sector. We believe that this mix of business is
healthy for the Company and enhances the long-
term sustainability of our revenue stream. We have
a relatively low market share in all of these sectors,
giving us plenty of opportunity for future growth.
Our structure and services
MITIE’s operating businesses are structured in two
divisions; Support Services and Building Services.
The divisions are supported by a Head Office team,
which provides policies, advice and assistance 
for Health & Safety, Human Resources, IT, Sales 
& Marketing, Risk Management, Finance, Legal,
Insurance and Property matters.
Support Services offers a flexible range of services
supporting the occupiers of buildings. These are
shown on the inside front cover of this report and
range from Engineering Maintenance and Facilities
Management to Security. We listen to our cust-
omers and create solutions that meet their needs
and resources.
Building Services is involved in the construction,
refurbishment and repair of buildings. Engineering
is predominantly a mechanical and electrical services
specialist installing heating, lighting, air condit-
ioning and data cabling. Property Services act as 
a main contractor improving buildings either by 
fitting them out, refurbishing or maintaining them.
06
Percentage of Group Turnover by Sector
Private Sector
      Transport 2%
      Commercial 21%
      Finance & Professional 9%
      Leisure & Entertainment 4%
      Manufacturing 13%
      Retail 7%
      Science & Technology 4%
Public Sector
      Defence 3%
      Education 8%
      Government 9%
      Healthcare 5%
      Local authority 5%
      Social housing 7%
      Utilities 3%
 
       MITIE has significantly developed its relationship
with property outsourcing specialists Land Securities
Trillium (LST), part of Land Securities Group plc over
the past five years. The facilities services contract for
the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) port-
folio, across Northern England and Scotland, has
been enlarged and now extends to 2018. We have
completed four Job Centre Plus refurbishments for
the DWP and provide a national painting and air
conditioning service as well.
We are working with LST to provide facilities man-
agement to their fully serviced Landflex buildings in
London. We deliver services including Reception,
Maintenance, Cleaning, Security, Landscaping, Post-
room and Courier Management as well as Disaster
Recovery and Contingency Planning. 
“We are working with LST to provide 
facilities management to their fully 
serviced Landflex buildings in London.”
Service Facilities Management
Sector Commercial
Client Land Securities
Flexible facilities services at Landflex
MITIE provides a call centre, planned and reactive
service management as well as on-site consultancy
on best practice and legislation.
In addition, this has provided fit-out opportunities
in London where we have recently completed the
new media village at the BBC as a follow on from
last year’s ‘superstars’ changing rooms project. This
in turn has led to two sizeable refurbishment proj-
ects in Paddington.
The element of trust and reliability nurtured at 
this stage of the relationship encouraged LST to
select MITIE as a long-term preferred supplier when
additional services are required.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 07 Operating Review
Performance in the period
I am pleased with our performance this year. 
We have made good progress.
Support Services
Cleaning 
On 1 November 2004 we received shareholder
approval for our second-generation equity plan for
the Cleaning business. We have a young manage-
ment team within Cleaning, who had previously
not had the opportunity to subscribe for equity.
They have invested £600,000 in the new equity of
MITIE Cleaning Services Limited. This is a signifi-
cant development of the MITIE equity model and
will allow the management to share in the additional
value they create.
This restructuring of the Cleaning business has 
been successful and the new management team is
operating the business on a national basis. The sales
and marketing team has been reinforced with the
appointment of a Sales and Marketing Director 
and a National Accounts Director. The specialist
businesses that focus on individual market sectors
have had a particularly good year gaining signifi-
cant market share. 
During the year we have secured many notable con-
tract wins including the new Doncaster Airport, 
BT Payphones, timetable installation for London
Buses, multi-site Co-op retail outlets, Goodrich
Engine Control Systems, Barclays Capital, Nokia UK
in a bundled service contract with Engineering
Maintenance, West Yorkshire Police and Pfizer UK.
We started the contract for the Scottish Parliament
that was awarded to us in the last financial year but
had a delayed start.
Cleaning has conducted extensive customer
research with the main conclusion that customer
satisfaction is directly linked to staff retention. To
enhance levels of staff retention Cleaning has
launched a major recognition and reward initiative
for staff that make an outstanding contribution for
clients and fellow MITIE colleagues. 
Mike McCarthy decided to retire this year; Mike was
responsible for our northern Cleaning business. 
I would like to thank him for the important contri-
bution he has made to MITIE over the years.
Catering
Catering continues to develop. A new business 
commenced trading in London that has started
well. Catering has secured contracts with IMS
Healthcare, Osborne Clarke, GVA Grimley and 
the National Audit Office. Catering achieved accred-
itation to the Hospitality Assured standard in
October 2004. Hospitality Assured is the world-class
standard for service and business excellence in the
UK hospitality industry.
Since the year-end we have recruited a dynamic team
to set up MITIE Catering in the north of England.
The Catering business will grow through develop-
ing a food service that delivers high levels of 
customer satisfaction, patronage and daily spend.
This will keep client subsidies at a competitive 
level which, allied to client relationships, will 
generate high levels of contract retention. The inter-
nal operating brand ‘ingredients’ will continue 
to be developed, acting as a clear differentiator 
in the market. Catering will continue to invest in 
the food concept function dedicated to driving 
up operating standards in vendor management, 
commodity selection, kitchen process and food
offer ranges.
Landscape
Landscape has made further progress during the
year. It has secured a national contract with Lloyds
TSB to maintain grounds and external areas and
with Proctor and Gamble in Egham. Landscape has
also started to penetrate the public sector and has
added a contract with Yorkshire Metropolitan
Housing Group to our existing Local Authority and
Police contracts.
Catering: cooking with the best ingredients
08 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005
