 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
04 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004
“We have made good progress.”
MITIE has continued to make good
progress and I am pleased that we
have produced a good set of
results this year. The prospects for
the future are promising.
Working in partnership with Rolls-Royce, MITIE
provides a full range of facilities services to its
aerospace manufacturing and maintenance
operations across the UK. It is a bundled service
with seven MITIE disciplines working together to
provide a flexible, responsive service that
includes infrastructure maintenance, catering,
security, cleaning and business services.
Rolls-Royce
Ian R Stewart
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Working together for business success MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 05
Contract Highlights
Our approach has always been to focus on our customers,
identify their goals and work together with our colleagues to
deliver quality services. I am delighted that we are seeing
some excellent examples of our success in doing that. 
Our contract with Rolls-Royce goes from strength to strength.
We have continued to expand the range of services that we
are providing to them. This contract is an example of our
bundled service offering. In January 2004, we started work
on another bundled services contract with Nissan Motor
Manufacturing United Kingdom (“Nissan”) at their
Sunderland plant. This is a further case of MITIE working
together to support the customer’s sole focus, which in this
case is on the production of cars.
We have also secured a further extension to our contract
with Land Securities Trillium. The contract covers the
Department for Work and Pensions and runs until 2018. 
I look forward to seeing this partnership develop further.
The MCI contract is another good example of MITIE
providing many of our services to one customer. Since our
acquisition of Executive Holdings Ltd we now provide
engineering maintenance, security, grounds maintenance
and business services to their Reading facility.
We have also recently started a facilities contract for the
Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (“ODPM”) in
Whitehall. The estate covers 55,837 square metres and we
will be providing cleaning, catering, security, facilities
management and business services. The mission statement
of the ODPM is ‘Creating Sustainable Communities’. This is
a goal with which MITIE readily identifies, as our aim is to
have a positive impact on the communities in which we all
live and work.
Progress
Our markets are always changing. Whether we are operating
in Support or Building Services, our customers are looking to
reduce costs and improve efficiency. Streamlined supply
chains, partnerships, framework agreements and one-stop
shops are the order of the day. To ensure MITIE’s share of
this market, a more flexible and integrated approach to our
customers was needed.
We therefore announced in March 2004 that we would be
reshaping Support Services to ensure that it is able to
continue its rapid progress as markets change. The trend
towards customers wanting combinations of our services, or
bundled services, is increasing and this has led us to appoint
Colin Hale as Head of Support Services to ensure that we are
positioned to meet this demand. 
We have recognised that, in order to keep pace with the
market, we must constantly review the way in which we sell
MITIE at the highest corporate level. In addition, we must
make strategic acquisitions as well as continuing with our
start-up model. In order to give these objectives a higher
profile, Roger Goodman was recently appointed Group
Corporate Development Director.
Acquisitions and New Companies
The progress of Support Services was boosted by three
strategic acquisitions during the year.
On 2 July 2003 we acquired Trident Safeguards Ltd
(“Trident”) and on 3 July 2003 Eagle Pest Control Services
UK Ltd (“Eagle”). On 4 November 2003 we acquired
Executive Holdings Ltd (“Executive”).
The acquisitions of Trident and Executive have enabled us
to increase significantly our presence in the manned
guarding market, giving us wider geographical cover.
Executive also operates in several niche cleaning markets and
these operations have been incorporated into our existing
cleaning business. This has enabled us to enter new markets.
Eagle is a national pest control business and will provide
significant opportunities for growth in this fragmented market.
I am particularly pleased with the way in which the staff in
these acquired companies are embracing the MITIE culture.
The MITIE model continues to flourish. We started five new
companies during the year under review and three more
since the year-end. Start-ups include two niche cleaning
businesses, which will concentrate on the retail and
transportation sectors, together with an industrial cleaning
company and a landscape business. In addition,
Engineering has expanded its national coverage with three
new start-ups and we have also established a new catering
company in London.  06 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004
Strategy
As I stated last year, we continue to review our strategy to
ensure that the solutions we offer meet the needs of existing
and potential clients. This year has seen more emphasis
placed on the development of our niche businesses and our
ability to work together across disciplines.
Niche businesses: We are finding that many of our
customers require a service that is specifically tailored to the
sector in which they operate and where we need to
demonstrate an understanding of their culture. We are
seeing good levels of success in the niche businesses that we
have started, in areas such as retail, transport and
technology, where previously we have not operated.
Working together (bundled services): Forecasts indicate
that customers will be buying more than 25% of their
services in a bundle by 2006, compared with 10% today.
This is a significant change. In the Contract Highlights
section I have given some examples of where we are
working well across our disciplines. This is now gathering
momentum and is presenting us with a number of
interesting opportunities.
Single service: There are still opportunities to develop all of
our existing businesses in their traditional markets on a
single service basis. 
Overseas: Increasingly, our customers are asking for us to be
involved in overseas contracts. We have established an
arrangement with providers across Europe to provide similar
services. 
Start-up businesses: Start-up businesses have been the
foundation of our growth model and we will continue to
start businesses with quality management teams that are
complementary to our existing operations.
All these services will be underpinned by the MITIE
philosophy of focusing on the customer and providing a
quality service. The changes we have made in the Support
Services division will provide a greater degree of operational
clarity and customer responsiveness. To assist in this process
we are continuing to locate our companies in the same
buildings wherever possible. We now have six regional centres.
Second Generation Equity in Cleaning
MITIE Cleaning started in 1987 as one company. After the
Company ‘earned out’, Cleaning was structured regionally.
Apart from MITIE Cleaning (Midlands) Ltd, there have been
no additional Cleaning companies started on the MITIE
model. Since its formation, Cleaning has grown rapidly and
we have recruited management at all levels who have never
had any equity participation. In order to give this new
management the opportunity to share in MITIE equity the
Board have agreed, in principle, and subject to all the
necessary professional advice, to launch a Second
Generation Equity Plan. This makes available additional
equity in MITIE Cleaning, allowing minority shareholders
to share in the additional value they create.
Revenue visibility
We see increased visibility of our future earnings. We feel that
this is an appropriate mix of short-term and long-term work.
Working together to achieve your goals
MITIE has performed an extensive
makeover of Arcadia’s Oxford Circus
headquarters. Over a ten-month period 
we transformed the PR showroom that 
is used to entertain the media, to stage
fashion shows and to display the latest
styles. We have consolidated reception
areas and improved the building’s open
plan offices. The projects have created 
a crisp and modern head office
environment with clean edges, light
colourings and comfort cooling. 
Arcadia Group
PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE SECURED
at 31March 2003
2004 64 36
33 67 2005
at 31March 2004
2005 67 33
42 58 2006
  Secured
  Unsecured
