 14
MITIE Group PLC   
Annual Report  
and Accounts 2010
Marketplace overview
Serving a broad 
range of clients  
and markets
Private sector
55% £0.9bn 
Contribution to 
Group and value
Sector Market 
size pa
MITIE 
share*
Finance and professional £5bn 4.6%
Manufacturing £5bn 2.1%
Technology and communications £4bn 3.5%
Retail £5bn 2.8%
Property management £6bn 3.0%
Utilities £8bn 0.8%
Transport and logistics £ 11 bn 0.9%
Construction £9bn 0.5%
Leisure £6bn 0.4%
The drive to reduce costs and a focus on 
sustainability are the two principal areas 
of focus for all our clients at present. 
Organisations are seeking to drive down 
their costs through integrated services, 
supplier rationalisation, retendering and 
innovation. In addition, consolidation 
drives the market to consider the structure 
of its cost base and bring new and 
extended outsourcing opportunities.
The ability to deliver integrated services, 
our unrivalled coverage across the UK and 
our technology platform are increasingly 
becoming key differentiators for our 
private sector clients. Some of our clients 
are also seeking alternative approaches 
to outsourcing by taking a ‘whole life’ view 
and linking the initial capital expenditure 
to the lifetime operating expenditure of 
their contracts. 
There is still considerable impetus for 
change in the private sector as clients look 
to increase efficiency in both cost and 
carbon. The financial and professional 
services sector was one of the first to react 
to economic conditions and has been at 
the forefront of a number of large scale 
contracts that have increased 
geographical coverage or increased  
the range of services and sometimes  
both. This trend continues with a number 
of current large scale opportunities.
Other sectors are also changing 
procurement models and we have  
seen considerable tender activity in  
retail, transport and utilities. We have 
benefited from these changes and are 
seeing particularly high levels of private 
sector tenders.
Public sector
45% £0.8bn 
Contribution to 
Group and value
Sector Market size pa MITIE share*
Government £7bn 4.0%
Social housing £10bn 2.4%
Education £13bn 1.4%
Healthcare £ 11 bn 1.1%
We expect opportunities in the public 
sector to expand as Government seeks to 
reduce expenditure and improve service 
levels and sustainability. The reduction of 
the fiscal deficit in the UK will be a priority 
for the Government in the coming years 
and MITIE is well-positioned to support  
this agenda. Consequently we continue 
to focus on and invest in our client 
proposition in this important market.
In simple terms, increasing levels of 
outsourcing have the ability to reduce 
costs and increase innovation, delivering 
more for less. It is likely that outsourcing will 
be used to create new services models 
and to improve the efficiency of public 
sector services. Shared services models 
could be developed to reduce the costs 
of management and administration  
of Government with support services 
benefiting from a private sector approach 
that has consistently demonstrated 
improvements to productivity over the 
long-term within Government. 
We expect partnerships between the 
public and private sector to be important 
in the transformation of the Government 
estate and they will support the 
achievement of Sustainable Operation  
of Government Estate (SOGE) targets.  
The Carbon Reduction Commitment 
(CRC) Energy Efficiency Scheme will  
also affect many public sector offices.  
The CRC, which came into force in April 
2010, is a huge part of the Government’s 
pledge to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions by at least 80% from 1990 levels 
by 2050. The scheme will see organisations 
with total half-hourly metered electricity 
consumption greater than 6,000 mega 
watt hours a year (equivalent to 
approximately £460,000 electricity spend) 
forced to buy allowances for each tonne 
of carbon dioxide (CO2) they emit and  
be placed in a league table according  
to their energy performance. 
These anticipated changes present  
a significant opportunity for MITIE and  
we are continuing to invest in our sales 
proposition in the public sector. We are 
recruiting and training sector specialists  
to help with bids and manage contracts, 
tailored to the needs of each of the 
sectors we focus on and extending our 
reach into the public sector. Our ability to 
create innovative, fit-for-purpose solutions 
that satisfy the Government’s green 
objectives and need for cost reduction 
positions us particularly well in this space.
*  Based on pro-forma numbers in respect of the 
acquisitions during the year.
14
MITIE Group PLC  
Annual Report  
and Accounts 2010 15
MITIE Group PLC   
Annual Report  
and Accounts 2010
Overview Business review Governance Accounts
01
38
60
 
The market continues to demonstrate an appetite for 
integration, either through the amalgamation of a number  
of service lines through one contract or through horizontal 
integration across a service line to create economies of scale. 
The outsourcing model is changing towards larger, integrated 
contracts and MITIE is moving with the market. Integrated 
contracts now account for over 57% of our total contracts and 
we are seeing integration across services and also within services 
as clients seek to simplify their procurement strategies and 
reduce costs. Our integrated contracts operate with one team 
focused on the clients’ needs. Our technology platform and 
management processes all support seamless service delivery 
and reporting.
7 : 1
MITIE designed and installed the mechanical and 
electrical systems in the newly renovated National 
Audit Office building. In addition to our contract  
to maintain the M&E systems in the years to come,  
we also commenced onsite operations of the 
integrated facilities management in November 2009 . 
As well as delivering seven essential services, we have 
introduced a number of measures which support 
them on their path to achieving government 
sustainability targets.
Mel Williams Contract Manager and Manjit Parmar 
Contract Facilities Manager
1
7
6
5 4
3
2
Our strategy
Integration
International markets
There has recently been increased 
demand from our UK private sector  
clients for MITIE to expand its UK delivery 
capability to other regions. European 
procurement teams are now taking the 
lead for cross border procurement activity 
and we expect an international mix  
going forward. We have developed an 
international strategy with a number of  
our key clients and have invested in a 
senior management team with extensive 
overseas experience. They will be working 
closely with our partners in Service 
Management International (SMI) to 
develop opportunities for MITIE. SMI is a 
specialist provider of international facilities 
service solutions, delivering on-site to  
blue chip multinationals worldwide.
Research puts the value of the EMEA 
(Europe, Middle East and Africa) 
integrated services market at about 
£30bn and growing rapidly. Clients are 
looking for a different type of response 
that provides compliance as an 
integrated part of a solution comprising 
management skills, a technology  
platform that allows visibility of expense  
at all locations and for the organisation  
as a whole and solid competence in  
service delivery.
The key considerations are geography, 
competencies, management capabilities 
and the ability to operate locally. Client 
procurement drivers in this area are less 
about the individual services and more 
about reducing the cost base, increasing 
efficiency and finding greater agility in  
a framework of risk management and 
corporate compliance.
15
MITIE Group PLC  
Annual Report  
and Accounts 2010
Overview Business review Governance Accounts
01
38
60
