 08
MITIE Group PLC   
Annual Report  
and Accounts 2010
Overview
MITIE is in an exciting position. We are 
a business with tremendous capability 
that is able to provide clients with the 
widest range of solutions to help them 
meet their strategic business and 
property challenges. Clients want us to 
do more. More strategic engagement, 
broader geographic coverage, capital 
investment, integrated service delivery 
and leading management information 
systems. Clients want partners that they 
trust and can rely on as their businesses 
adapt to the changing economic 
climate in both good times and bad.
MITIE is now a high volume transactional 
outsourcing business. We have the 
capability and technical infrastructure  
to manage the transfer of thousands  
of people in very short timescales.  
We manage clients’ compliance,  
risk, employment and legislative  
requirements while delivering innovative 
solutions, efficiently.
We have ambitious plans. As our clients 
grow and diversify so will we. We have 
a robust and challenging growth plan 
that recognises the importance of our 
expanding markets and opportunities 
and supports the development of our 
business overseas.
This will not however be at the cost of 
what has made MITIE such a success.  
We are passionate about keeping the 
spirit of innovation and empowerment 
that has made MITIE flexible enough to 
provide exactly what our clients need.  
We want our people to identify new 
markets and to be ready to develop 
them. We know that our future success 
depends on our ability to recruit and 
retain good people, so we will always 
have incentive schemes that promote 
and reward excellent performance.
Above all we will always put our clients 
first. Having clients who really value what 
we do and who want to develop long-
term relationships does not happen by 
chance. Spending time with clients, 
listening to their issues and helping them 
to construct solutions is what we do best. 
Focusing  
on strategic 
priorities
Chief Executive’s strategy review 09
MITIE Group PLC   
Annual Report  
and Accounts 2010
Overview Business review Governance Accounts
01
38
60
Our strategy
Our strategy has seven elements all of 
which contribute to delivering stakeholder 
value through a focus on sustainable 
profitable growth. 
We provide value for all of our 
stakeholders: clients; employees; 
shareholders; the communities in which 
we operate; and other organisations we 
deal with. Growth provides benefits for  
our stakeholders, and our commitment  
is to growth in profits that is sustainable.  
By sustainable we mean that we grow 
profits every year and that we do it the 
right way. We care about our impacts on 
the environment and on society. We are  
a responsible business because we 
believe that is the right way to be. All of 
these strategic elements influence the 
way we do things. From our corporate 
responsibility (CR) plans to performance 
management for our people, we 
measure ourselves on our contribution  
to the following seven areas of strategic 
focus, which are covered in further detail 
throughout this report:
 
Our market opportunity
Market conditions are attractive for MITIE 
as our ability to deliver cost and carbon 
reductions for our clients comes to the 
fore. Current economic conditions have 
provided further impetus for change in  
the industry as clients see the tangible 
benefits that outsourcing delivers, in the 
form of lower costs, more innovation and 
improved value for money. As the market 
has evolved we have successfully 
positioned the Group as a partner of 
choice for our clients, having continued  
to secure and retain large contracts 
throughout the year. Our ongoing 
investment in people, systems and 
technical capabilities gives us confidence 
that we can drive economies of scale  
for our business and that of our clients 
going forward.
We offer a number of differentiated 
capabilities to our clients, which will help 
them to introduce further efficiencies 
throughout their organisations. We have 
built the capability to manage any size 
portfolio of buildings or assets and have 
the ability to deliver this across multiple 
regions. We offer a tried and tested 
capability to manage large scale 
transactional activity for our clients,  
which drives efficiency in their back office 
structures, particularly in the areas of 
supply chain, employment and payroll 
management. Energy and carbon 
efficiency is becoming an integral part  
of all our contracts and is increasingly 
embedded in everything we do. 
Technology also has an important part to 
play and the investments we are making 
now will ensure that we offer the most 
efficient service in the marketplace,  
now and in the future. 
In the private sector we have seen high 
levels of activity across our client base as 
they respond to the efficiency challenges 
faced by every organisation. This has 
resulted in an increasing level of private 
sector tender activity for all services and 
we see this trend continuing as businesses 
seek to consolidate acquired operations 
or enhance efficiency in existing 
structures. The public sector faces the 
prospect of considerable pressure  
on expenditure in the coming years.  
We believe that this will create significant 
opportunities for the outsourcing market 
as contracts will tend to become larger 
and broader in scope. 
1
7
6
5 4
3
2
1. Clients
Deliver value to our clients by providing 
world-class service
2.  People
Recruit, motivate and retain the  
best talent in the industry
3.  Risk
Take a long-term view to protect  
our business and manage risk
4.  Responsibility
Act responsibly and build a  
reputation that enhances our  
brand to all stakeholders
5.  Integration
Leverage our strong position to  
secure more integrated and larger  
scale contracts
6.  Profitability
Focus on growing a profitable  
business, maintaining margins
7.  Acquisitions
Support our growth with selective 
acquisitions
Seven  
strategic 
elements
View our strategic progress  
through our Group KPIs 
34–35 10
MITIE Group PLC  
Annual Report  
and Accounts 2010
Acquisitions are a key part of our strategy and they support  
our long-term growth plans. Our two significant acquisitions  
in 2009 are now integrated into the Group. 
MITIE’s acquisition strategy seeks to enhance shareholder value 
by introducing new and scalable capabilities that build long-
term revenues, maintain margin levels and fit with the MITIE 
brand. A number of key factors drive our acquisition framework, 
including sector priorities, business differentiators, capability 
gaps, and market and brand stretch. 
The acquisition of Dalkia FM introduced the CarbonCare 
concept and brand to MITIE. We have subsequently  
launched MITIE CarbonCare across our Group and it now  
forms a core part of our important and growing carbon 
management programme.
1
7
6
5 4
3
2
Our strategy
Acquisitions
Chief Executive’s strategy review
The satisfaction of our clients is central to our strategy of 
delivering sustainable profitable growth. We have invested time 
this year improving our understanding of our clients needs in 
order to reinforce our client strategy. 
Our clients see consolidation as the way forward and are 
looking to outsource more aggressively as they seek to cut costs 
and enhance carbon efficiency. They want to be clear about 
what the benefits are and how they can be realised. That’s why 
we are introducing new technology that reduces costs for us 
and our clients and allows us to provide a smoother delivery  
of integrated services. We are helping our clients either by 
consolidating their supplier bases within specific service lines  
or by bundling services together, or a combination of the two. 
Our clients tell us that sustainability and carbon targets are 
increasingly important issues. We have responded by launching 
CarbonCare, which will see energy management become a 
part of every service we offer.
£42m
Our strategic approach to outsourcing has allowed us to 
save our client £42m over five years by integrating their 
cleaning services with just one supplier across their entire 
UK portfolio. We are harmonising work process across 
their business, with one supplier and one specification, 
delivering one look and feel to the whole estate.
Allison Emerson Head of Account for Lloyds Banking 
Group, and Dave Wilkins Project Manager
1
7
6
5 4
3
2
Our strategy
Clients 01
38
60
Accounts Governance Business review Overview
11
MITIE Group PLC  
Annual Report  
and Accounts 2010
–15%
We successfully reduced North Somerset’s schools’ 
energy spend by over 15%. CarbonCare offers a full 
range of integrated services that help organisations 
manage down their energy use and carbon footprint. 
Our expertise ranges from measuring carbon 
exposure, developing comprehensive energy 
strategies, eliminating waste, identifying effective 
clean energy alternatives, to challenges with a more 
human dimension like encouraging behavioural 
change in the workforce.
Mike Sewell Marketing Director,  
Technical Facilities Management 
We anticipate higher levels of tender 
activity to result in the medium term.  
Whilst this may not have any material 
effect on our anticipated performance 
during the current year, we believe that  
in subsequent years we will benefit from 
the efficiency agenda that is expected  
to impact central and local government.
Investment in our capability
Acquisitions
In 2009 we utilised our strong financial 
position to make two strategically 
important acquisitions, Dalkia FM and EPS 
Ltd, which are trading well. The acquisition 
of Dalkia FM was made in August 2009 
and we are particularly pleased with the 
progress made by our teams in creating a 
fully integrated technical FM business that 
complements the capabilities and skills of 
our traditional soft FM services business. 
Acquisitions will continue to feature as part 
of our growth strategy but our approach 
will always be to acquire businesses that 
have strong management teams with 
similar cultural values to ours. We want  
to acquire businesses for fair prices that 
complement our existing capabilities and 
enhance what we are able to offer our 
clients, particularly in terms of property 
and estate management, environmental 
and carbon consultancy. We will properly 
integrate each acquisition so that clients 
will be able to receive seamless support 
from MITIE as we develop.
Operational development
The operations of MITIE have been 
realigned as a result of the acquisitions  
of Dalkia FM and EPS Ltd so that with  
effect from 1 April 2010 we are structured 
into four divisions. These are Facilities 
Management, Technical Facilities 
Management, Property Management 
and Asset Management. 
We have moved some of the elements  
of the Asset Management business to 
other divisions to reflect market changes 
and client preferences.
The Technical Facilities Management 
business is a stand alone division providing 
a range of services for clients that have  
a preference for facilities management 
with an energy and technical emphasis. 
Our engineering contracting operations 
have moved from Asset Management  
to Property Management allowing the 
residual Asset Management division to 
focus on providing energy performance 
services, infrastructure and asset 
investment solutions to clients that are 
looking to optimise performance in a 
rapidly evolving energy environment. 12
MITIE Group PLC   
Annual Report  
and Accounts 2010
People
As our business is dependent upon having 
motivated, quality people we have a 
talent management programme in place 
to ensure that we have the right people 
with the skills our clients value. MiFuture  
is the programme that formalises our 
approach to talent management and 
ranges from work experience and an 
innovative graduate programme,  
to talent mapping for our top managers 
and bespoke coaching programmes  
for senior management.
Increasingly, our clients are asking us to 
have the capability to support them 
across all of the countries in which they 
operate. MITIE is able to respond to this 
demand and has expanded its 
management team to enhance its 
international expertise through the 
targeted recruitment of key people and 
the development of its international supply 
chain. As the scale and complexity of our 
clients’ needs increase both in the UK and 
abroad, we have also selected a team of 
people who will be dedicated to large-
scale, integrated contracts and this 
specialised group will be at the forefront of 
MITIE’s strategic outsourcing opportunities. 
We are committed to fostering and 
developing a culture of employee 
involvement in the business through 
communication with employees.  
We embrace new technologies  
and see real value in social networking, 
recognising the influence it has on our 
people and industry as it becomes an 
increasingly important part of our lives.  
We are at the forefront of social 
networking and encourage all our 
employees and stakeholders to expand 
their networks in new and innovative ways. 
Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, RSS, MiNet 
and SMS are all utilised as part of our 
employee communications. The Group 
also communicates with employees 
through the use of: mailings and updates; 
employee-focused initiatives; business-
specific intranet sites; and broadcasts  
of financial presentations. 
The importance of recognising and 
rewarding our people cannot be 
underestimated. We have further 
expanded our MITIE Stars programme to 
reward exceptional performance by our 
people and in 2008 introduced MITIE’s  
Got Talent as a Group-wide talent contest 
to encourage employee engagement 
and recognition. In November 2009 we 
launched MitieRewards which is our  
brand new employee benefit rewards 
scheme available to all employees.
The Group’s culture of employee equity 
involvement is a significant driver in the 
Group’s growth performance and assists 
in attracting and retaining our employees. 
We continue to operate: the MITIE Long 
Term Incentive Plan to incentivise and 
reward senior employees of MITIE; the 
Executive Share Option Scheme for 
certain other employees below Board 
level and the Savings Related Share 
Option Scheme which is open to all 
eligible employees of the Group. 
Technology
Our technology infrastructure provides  
us with the platform to support our  
clients, our contracts and our business. 
Clients increasingly want real time 
information on the performance of  
their assets and estates that is available 
online and accessible 24 hours a day.  
This capability will be increasingly 
important as we develop our business  
in the UK and overseas.
Over the last three years, we have 
invested in our systems to ensure that they 
are robust and can support us as we grow. 
Our investment has been focused on 
back office support through the roll-out  
of a new finance and human resources 
administration system and on operational 
systems. We have developed a client 
facing management information suite 
that has the capacity to provide 
comprehensive asset performance  
data to our clients and our teams to 
enable the most efficient FM solution  
to be tailored to their needs. We see  
these developments as critical to MITIE 
and create differentiation of our service 
offering within the marketplace. 
Chief Executive’s strategy review
1
7
6
5 4
3
2
Our strategy
People
419
MITIE prides itself on developing new talent and this  
is demonstrated through our practice of employing 
and providing vocational training for apprentices.  
We are one of the largest employers of apprentices in 
the UK, currently employing 419 trade apprentices 
across our business and many more in short-term 
service apprenticeships. 
Four of MITIE’s prize-winning apprentices:  
Callum Wilson, Edwin Mensah, Rachel Green,  
Thomas Mizuro  13
MITIE Group PLC   
Annual Report  
and Accounts 2010
Overview Business review Governance Accounts
01
38
60
Looking forward 
We are very positive about MITIE’s future 
prospects and remain committed  
to our strategy of delivering sustainable 
profitable growth. Further market 
consolidation and the continued drive for 
efficiency, change and enhanced service 
levels will drive the growth of the business. 
This will be reinforced by the ongoing shift 
to integrated contracts with greater 
complexities and which are increasingly 
energy focused.
We are continuing to invest in our business, 
principally in the areas of sales, geographic 
expansion, talent management and 
technology. We have created a step 
change in our capabilities this year as a 
result of the investments we have already 
made, leaving us in a strong position to 
deliver substantial growth. 
We have excellent visibility of future 
revenues, a growing long-term order  
book and an unprecedented level of  
bid opportunities. We have experienced  
an extremely positive start to the new 
financial year with new contract awards 
which demonstrate our ability to provide 
complex integrated services utilising 
MITIE’s extensive capabilities. We are at  
an exciting stage in the evolution of our 
business and we look forward to a year  
of opportunity and strong growth.
Ruby McGregor-Smith  
Chief Executive
Outsourcing is a people-based business and we are  
acutely aware of how critical our people are to our business. 
Recruiting and retaining the right people is also one of our 
biggest challenges. As MITIE has shifted from single service 
delivery to a solutions-driven approach, we have made 
significant investments in attracting, training and retaining  
the right people. Our apprentice and graduate programme  
are also important elements of our talent management.
Looking forward, we remain focused on talent identification, 
movement and succession planning as we challenge and 
motivate our management teams to keep pace with the 
business’ increasing commercial complexity
