 MITIE Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business review
A review of our strategy by the Chief Executive
06
MITIE is in a strong position. We have an
excellent track record, an experienced
management team, a strong balance
sheet and a broad client base.
Overall the Group is performing very well
and making strong progress. We are seeing
a clear trend for increased outsourcing 
and a drive for efficiency as client budgets
come under pressure during this stage of
the economic cycle. We expect to benefit
from this trend, and see opportunities for
growth as we contribute to our clients’
cost and operational efficiency through
extended scope outsourced solutions 
and the introduction of innovation in 
asset management. Our financial strength,
strategic consultancy, management
experience and broad range of services
mean that MITIE is an attractive partner 
for both new and existing clients alike.
Against this backdrop of opportunity
however, certain areas of our business 
such as our interior fit-out, retail engineering
and our plumbing business with its exposure
to the new build housing market have been
affected by the recession. These areas of
our business are continuing to experience
challenging conditions. However, as markets
improve they should be some of the first 
to benefit. 
As an organisation that deals with change
on a daily basis for our clients, we also
continually assess the efficiency of how we
work. The current market conditions have
reinforced this behaviour and we are 
taking a responsible approach to the
review of our activities, with the long-term
future of the business our priority. We have
considered the ways we engage with our
clients, our management structure and 
our risk profile. 
We are being cautious about the credit 
risk that we take on at the moment. 
This could have an effect on our top line
growth in certain markets but our client
acceptance criteria will give us stability 
in the long term. Our margins are under
pressure, but this is not a new trend 
and we are skilled at focusing on the
maintenance and development of our
margin performance. Naturally, we protect
our margins by ensuring that we always
have an efficient cost base.
As part of this process, we have 
made changes to the structure of our
business. With effect from 1 April 2009 
our Engineering Services division has 
been renamed Asset Management to
demonstrate the move away from the
traditional contracting environment 
to a total asset lifecycle approach 
which will include consultancy, design, 
installation and maintenance and we 
will be enhancing our asset maintenance
capability going forward through the
combination of Engineering Maintenance
and Services. Property Services becomes
Property Management to show the wider
range of property management and project
management abilities that we now offer,
whilst Facilities Services becomes Facilities
Management to reflect the shift in emphasis
towards total facilities management and
multiple services contracts as clients look for
better value and improved levels of service. 
Our teams are highly motivated, focused
on supporting our clients in these very
uncertain market conditions, and are using
their experience and fresh thinking to give
us a competitive edge. We are pleased
that we are dealing with the current
climate really well and are securing some
great new contracts.
Our strategy: 
To deliver stakeholder value 
through a focus on sustainable
proﬁtable growth.
Strategy achieved by:
1. Clients
Deliver value to our clients by providing world-class service;
2. People
Recruit, motivate and retain the best talent in the industry;
3. Risk
Take a long-term view to protect our business and manage risk;
4. Responsibility
Act responsibly and build a reputation that enhances 
our brand to all stakeholders;
5. Integration
Leverage our strong position to secure more integrated 
and larger scale contracts;
6. Proﬁtability
Focus on growing a proﬁtable business, maintaining margins;
7. Acquisitions
Supplement our organic growth with selective acquisitions.
13012_R&A08_p01-15.qxd:Layout 1  28/5/09  11:48  Page 06 MITIE Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business review
07
3. Risk
We take risks everyday as part of our daily
life. In business it is our duty to understand
the risks we face, appreciate the impact
that those risks may have on our people,
clients or wider stakeholders and to 
devise appropriate strategies to manage,
mitigate or eliminate these risks. MITIE 
does all of that and we then ensure that
everyone in the business understands their
role in our risk management process and
can behave accordingly.
Having an appropriate risk management
process does not mean that we are so
measured in our approach that we lose
competitive advantage. We classify our
risks into four areas, strategic, operational,
ﬁnancial and compliance. Strategic risks
are those that could affect our long-term
strategic objectives. Operational risks 
arise from our day-to-day activities which,
if not managed, could affect business
performance. Financial risks have a 
direct impact on our ﬁnancial position
and compliance risk covers risks that
relate to legal and regulatory sanctions
and damage to goodwill arising from
failure to comply with applicable laws
and regulations.
The assessment of risks is part of our 
culture. Every MITIE business has a risk
register that identiﬁes the particular issues
relating to that part of our operations
and activities. These are consolidated 
into the overall MITIE Group risk register,
which considers our high-level risks and is
reviewed and considered by our Board.
Our risk management team conducts
regular reviews and assessments
to ensure that our risk identiﬁcation and
management processes remain relevant
to the shape of our business, the wider
market conditions and most importantly
that any risk mitigation strategies are
being followed.
2. People
It is easy to say that our people are 
our greatest asset but they really are. 
We are only as good as the people that
prepare our client strategies, manage
projects and facilities, and deliver services.
As they are so important to us, we have 
a three part people strategy.
Firstly, we make sure that each employee
has the best possible career journey with
MITIE. We have a consistent approach
that reinforces our culture and values. 
We evaluate skills, identify gaps and
provide appropriate training and support
to ensure success. We use a performance
management process so that we can be
fair in our measurement of performance
and appraisal. This encourages good
levels of performance and minimises
employment risks. 
Secondly, we have an integrated
Human Resources (HR) team structure 
to provide a professional and efficient
service that meets the needs of our
people and the future requirements 
of the business. We employ specialists in
key areas including the management 
of TUPE, pensions and employment law.
The third part of our people strategy
makes sure that we will have the right
talented people for the future. We have 
a structured approach to succession
planning, reward and incentivisation,
leadership, management development
and professional development. It gives 
us a motivated MITIE team that is
determined to outperform the market.
The result is that we have a very people
centric business with a strong leadership
and management style but with the
ﬂexibility to drive the Group forward.
People
Our MITIE Stars awards recognise
people who show true passion for 
their work, going above and beyond
the call of duty.
Risk Management
We empower our people to stop 
and think before doing their work.
Safety is part of our culture.
Clients
We apply strategic thinking,
management skill and an unrivalled
range of services to meet our 
clients’ needs.
1. Clients
Our clients are at the centre of everything
that we do. If we do not have satisﬁed
clients who are prepared to make a
positive recommendation about MITIE 
we do not have a sustainable future. 
From their ﬁrst day with us, our people 
are trained to think about our clients’
objectives. What does the client want
from MITIE? How can we contribute to
their business and organisational issues?
Our clients expect us to deliver value
for money. In this economic climate,
we continually evaluate our cost base 
to ensure that we are deploying resources
efficiently. This applies to all areas of 
our business and we run a lean business
to make sure that our clients feel the full
beneﬁt from our efforts. 
Our clients represent the future of our
business so we make sure that we have
the best possible relationships with them,
understand the issues that affect them
and regularly engage with them at all
levels. To make sure that we are getting 
it right we conduct client satisfaction
surveys to check that we are providing 
a quality service and are in tune with our
clients’ strategic direction.
13012_R&A08_p01-15.qxd:Layout 1  28/5/09  11:49  Page 07 MITIE Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business review
A review of our strategy by the Chief Executive
08
Integrated offer
At Heathrow Terminal 5 our people 
are an integral part of the travelling
experience.
4. Responsibility
Corporate Responsibility (CR) has always
been at the core of the way we work at
MITIE and is an essential part of our culture. 
Our success for over 21 years has come
from having a responsible business model
that has responded to the ever-changing
requirements of an increasingly wide
group of stakeholders. CR is part of our
business strategy because it helps us 
to deliver sustainable proﬁtable growth.
We have ﬁve pillars in our CR framework.
Health and Safety is critical. We employ
over 50,000 people and good health 
and safety performance is vital for 
their wellbeing and improves business
performance.
Community engagement is also important.
Our people want to work for a company
that is recognised for helping to make 
a difference to the lives of others, 
whether that is through our volunteering
programmes or charity work.
The environmental agenda makes it
imperative for us to manage and reduce
our impact on the Environment. We also
support our clients to improve their energy
efficiency, reduce waste streams and
improve cost efficiency. 
Focusing on our People helps to improve
business results. We train, develop and
reward our people well, which improves
retention, motivation and stability. 
We develop our Service Delivery
capabilities to support the needs and core
businesses of our clients and the changing
market. This helps to maintain our long-
term relationships and contributes to the
successes of our respective organisations.
5. Integration
MITIE is an integrated business. Integration 
is important for efficiency and supports 
our client proposition of seamless service
delivery. All of our businesses use common
systems and processes and are transitioning
to a common ﬁnancial and HR platform.
This is important because as clients ask us 
to provide a wider range of services they
want to be dealing with just one MITIE 
team that operates the same way.
Integration however, is more than 
systems; it is also about attitude, 
ownership and leadership. 
Increasingly, our clients want us to be
integrated with their own operations 
so that we can help them to achieve 
their business and organisational goals. 
They want a seamless service that
reinforces their corporate image,
so that their employees and clients 
can’t tell where they stop and we start. 
This is crucial and allows them to maintain 
a complete focus on their core business 
areas and activities. 
6. Proﬁtability
Ultimately, the objective of any commercial
organisation is to be proﬁtable. MITIE has 
a 21-year track record of continuous
proﬁtable growth. We have a total ﬁnancial
focus on proﬁts and cash. In these markets
with changing risk proﬁles it is still important 
to achieve revenue growth through taking
market share, but it is crucial to maintain
proﬁt margins and be paid on a timely 
basis for the work we have performed. 
Our cash conversion target is 90%.
We manage our ﬁnancial performance
with a series of key performance indicators 
that are consistent and applied throughout
the business. 
Responsibility
We invest in seven MITIE Construction
Skills Centres in secondary schools
around the UK, providing over 1 ,000 
14-16 year-old boys and girls and 
their communities with access to
construction skills and qualiﬁcations,
career advice and work experience.
Proﬁtability
We recognise that focusing on
proﬁtability rather than top line growth
is a key factor in creating value for 
our stakeholders, so we have always
based the senior team’s incentives 
on proﬁt-related performance. 
The results? A 21-year track record 
of continuous growth in earnings.
09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00 99 98 97 96 95 94 93 92 91 90 89 88
5
10
15
13012_R&A08_p01-15.qxd:Layout 1  28/5/09  11:49  Page 08 MITIE Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business review
09
Acquisitions
We have a track record of 
delivering and integrating selective
acquisitions to support our strategic
growth objectives.
We monitor our progress towards
meeting our strategic goals through
our ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial key
performance indicators, which are
set out on pages 12-13. 
7. Acquisitions
We have a low market share in all of our
markets. We expect to grow organically 
by taking market share from competitors
but we are also well positioned to create
stakeholder value through acquisition. 
At 31 March 2009, we had no net debt
and undrawn committed funding facilities
of £220.0m out of a £230.0m total facility.
This gives us the financial capacity 
and flexibility to make selected, value
enhancing acquisitions should the Board
consider this to be appropriate. 
Our approach to acquisitions remains
conservative. We are looking for quality
businesses with strong management teams
that complement or fit within our existing
business and operate in growth markets.
13012_R&A08_p01-15.qxd:Layout 1  28/5/09  11:49  Page 09
