 Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Introduction
2009 has started, as 2008 ended, on a positive note with the
announcements by Taiwan’s Chunghwa Telecom’s Laboratories
and SoftAtHome of their selection of ANT Galio for their next
generation browser. While current economic conditions will
inevitably constrain growth rates over the next few years, the
ongoing structural changes in the TV market supports our
confidence in the market’s long-term growth potential. With our
significant market share, we are well placed to benefit from
these.
Financial Review
Group revenues for the year at £3.7m, were 29% higher than
2007 reflecting an increase in the number and variety of
licences signed, an increase in units shipped and favourable
exchange rate movements in the year.
Revenue from Licencing and Royalties was £2.9m (2007: £2.1m)
with Professional Services contributing £0.8m (2007: £0.8m). 
14 new licences were signed in the year (2007: 7), which was
the major factor behind the increase in licence and royalty
income.
Units shipped in the year from ANT licensees increased by 56%
reflecting a general broadening of the Group’s shipping
customer base and a more than doubling to 9 of the numbers
of licensees shipping more than 100,000 units (2007: 4).
However, royalty income was broadly unchanged year on year
as there was a substantial reduction in advance royalties
booked as part of the licensing deals signed during the year.
This was offset by an increase in royalty income from licensees
who had already exhausted their advance royalty payments.
Gross margins remained stable in the year at 83% (2007: 85%).
Operating costs at £4.4m (2007: £4.8m) were 8% lower than
last year – although 2008 benefited from exchange rate gains.
While spending on R&D in 2008 rose by 10%, operating
expenses reduced by 23% of which 9% was due to exchange
rate gains. Headcount at 31 December 2008 was 49 (2007: 45).
The average headcount in the year was 47 (2007: 45).
The average Sterling/US Dollar rate for the year was $1.80
(2007: $2.01). Approximately 90 per cent of the Group’s
business in the year was conducted outside the UK– the
majority of which was denominated in US dollars.
Losses before tax for the year halved to £1.0m (2007:
£2.0m) of which £0.6m was due to favourable currency
movements.
The Group continued to focus on managing its working
capital tightly with net cash outflow for the year being
significantly reduced to £0.6m (2007: £1.3m outflow). Cash
and cash equivalents and other financial assets as at 31
December 2008 were £5.6m (2007: £6.2m). Our treasury
policy for managing our cash balances is to ensure that we
retain adequate cash on short term deposits to meet our
daily operational needs while committing the surplus to
treasury deposits of varying lengths spread across a number
of “AA” rated financial institutions.
The Group has unrecognised tax losses available to be offset
against future profits of £10.6m. The Directors are not
recommending the payment of a final dividend.
Market Overview
The evolution of digital media markets continues to drive
significant change and disruption to the traditional modes of
delivering media. Worldwide, consumers and providers are
increasingly embracing the opportunities that digital media
services have to offer and this momentum is growing. The
consumer electronics and technology market continues to
anticipate these new services and has ensured that home
devices are ready to adapt quickly to the changing habits of
the consumer, whether that is to store, share, watch
now/later, recommend or interact with the abundance of
content that is increasingly becoming available.
Internet Protocol (IP) Networks (Broadband Networks) and
the Internet are also providing new opportunities for non-
traditional delivery of video content to the TV set through a
variety of devices such as game consoles, media centres,
media extenders, IP-enabled TV sets, operator and retail
Hybrid (integrated multiple network) Set Top Boxes (“Hybrid
STBs”) and Blu-ray Disc (BD) players. The proliferation of
6 ANT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 broadband services, both in terms of geographic expansion
and increased bandwidth from operators, enables these
devices to access a wealth of video content from video
aggregators, consumer generated media sites and social
networking sites.
We are also seeing the rapid emergence of hybrid devices,
such as STBs, that combine support for digital broadcast TV
(satellite, cable or terrestrial) and broadband-based services.
This trend plays strongly to ANT’s Galio platform strengths,
providing the consumer with a simple unified TV experience in
an increasingly complex infrastructure environment. Television
providers are blending third party services with their own to
increase differentiation. IMS Research predicts that this
broadcast/broadband hybrid device market will grow from
being in 350 million homes at the end of 2008 to more than
600 million homes by the end of 2013.
Televisions themselves are also becoming more sophisticated
media platforms, with digital broadcast and broadband service
capabilities built into many models. Recent forecasts by
Screen Digest for such Integrated Digital TV (iDTV) reached
nearly 70 million units shipped at the end of 2008 and are
forecast to grow to over 100 million units by 2012. This was
reinforced at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las
Vegas in January 2009, where TV manufacturers, including
Samsung, LG, Pioneer and Panasonic, demonstrated many
iDTV models.
Endorsing ANT’s vision of connected TV platforms, Yahoo
launched their Connected TV ‘widgets’ platform (‘widgets’ are
mini applications such as weather, news, sport) in 2008. We
expect to see the advent of hybrid platforms with connected
media services becoming mainstream from device
manufacturers and TV operators in 2009. We believe that
growth will come from increased user awareness and the
enabling of access to multiple consumer services from these
devices.
Market Drivers
In many markets, this growth in delivery of digital TV services
has, at its core, continuing support from governments and
regulators to accelerate the transition from the analogue to the
digital TV spectrum. Other key drivers include the increase in
broadband coverage, the adoption of new technologies in
the home such as High Definition TV (‘HDTV’), and the
rapidly accelerating demand for digital interactive content
both online and via broadcast.
In 2008, we saw positive trends in all these areas; the move
from analogue to digital spectrum is on track in all major
markets; in the UK over 88% of primary TV sets are able to
receive digital television, whilst globally this figure is on
average 75%. In the last eight years consumer broadband in
the UK has reached 58% of homes (Ofcom 2008 International
Review) and is poised for super broadband, as, through
Government initiative, access speeds of 20Mbs or more to
consumers become the target.
In 2008, we also saw a significant shift from the purchase of
physical multimedia (CD, DVD, Games) to online purchasing
of digital media. Music downloads reached 1.07bn music
tracks up 27% on 2007 and we saw an array of new video
on demand (VoD) services, such as those from NetFlix,
iTunes and Microsoft, achieve traction.
Through our technology, and by virtue of our reputation in
the industry, we are well placed to help operators, set top
box manufacturers, and in the future, TV manufacturers,
make this shift. These trends, supported by market
projections from a number of sources, give us confidence
that we are operating in a market that will grow substantially
over the next three to five years.
Market Growth
While no market is or will be untouched by the global
economic recession, the projected growth figures for the TV
market indicate that there is already sufficient momentum
underway for it to grow substantially over the next three to
five years even if there were to be some shortfall in the
current industry projections: 
• Multimedia Research Group’s latest IPTV Global Forecast 
predicts that global IPTV subscribers will grow from 
approximately 20m in 2008 to approximately 90m in 2012
driven by the investment by operators worldwide in 
improved quality of service, ease of operation, HD content
and time shifting.
ANT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008  7 Chief Executive Officer’s Review
continued
In all major markets, the standard analogue spectrum is being
shut down by 2012 to make way for digital services. This,
supported by an ever increasing array of HD channels and
premium programming events, such as the World Cup in 2010
and the Olympic Games in 2012, illustrate some of the
compelling events that will help drive consumers to move to
digital.
ANT is ideally placed to capitalise on these trends by providing
device manufacturers with the middleware and applications to
take advantage of this structural growth in the market. Through
the use of such device manufacturers’ products, operators can
provide the consumer with a compelling and intuitive user
experience for which he or she should be willing to pay, even in
these more economically constrained times.
ANT’s software is being extensively deployed throughout the
world by customers including France Telecom, Telecom Italia,
Telekom Austria and Chunghwa Telecom. These deployments
have been achieved through STB manufacturers licensing
directly from ANT, including the likes of Amino Technologies,
Advanced Digital Broadcast, Samsung, Cisco, Pirelli, Sagem,
Thomson and Hwacom.
Product Marketing Strategy
The Group’s strategy for growing its revenues remains
unchanged, namely to: 
• Maximise royalty revenues from existing high volume Fresco 
and ANT Galio deployments;
• Migrate operators, and subsequently the STB manufacturers 
who seek to sell through them, to the greater capability and 
higher value of the ANT Galio platform; and
• Enhance ANT’s value and revenue per subscriber through 
the commercial exploitation of its new range of media 
applications.
ANT offers a flexible and media centric applications platform,
a range of highly customisable media applications and portal
services enabling direct access to such services as catch up
TV, TV widgets and social networking, etc. Our software,
including our Content Development Kits (CDKs), enable TV
operators and device manufacturers to significantly reduce
the time and cost to launch such new services. 
ANT’s well established Fresco browser continues to support
the majority of ANT deployments. Migration to ANT Galio is
proceeding satisfactorily, however, thereby providing us with
additional licence income and higher per unit royalties.
The ANT Galio platform is an easy-to-use, non-proprietary
platform solution for digital media delivery. It comprises:
• ANT Galio Browser – an advanced standards-based web 
browser engine optimised for complex TV application, 
dynamic user interface and portal services support; and
• ANT Galio Client – which provides a wide range of TV-
focused extensions for manipulating digital media.
ANT Galio is built on open standards. The familiarity of these
standards provides immediate advantages for both operators
and content developers, including the ability to quickly
change/personalise/adapt user interfaces. This in turn
provides operators with more opportunities to build brand
awareness and to take advantage of potential revenue
opportunities through targeted sponsorship and advertising.
It is the unique flexibility and cross platform capability of
ANT’s software that has made Fresco and latterly ANT Galio
the market leading delivery platforms and products of
choice, while enabling ANT to attain a market share of more
than 50% of global IPTV deployments today.
SoftAtHome has chosen ANT Galio to enhance its operating
platform in order to deliver high quality user experience for
service providers. ANT Galio continues to be selected by
operators to support more sophisticated user interface
designs and extend the capability of media applications to
provide a significantly improved user experience. To support
greater device value and revenues in the medium to long
8 ANT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 term, ANT has now developed a complete range of core TV
applications. These include program guide, channel zapper,
fully integrated Personal Video Recorder (PVR), parental
control, video on demand and portal services. All applications
support the full customisation of user interface design, and
provide operators and device manufacturers with a highly
optimised route to market for their products. 
Operational and Technical Developments
During the year we took a number of steps designed to 
reinforce our technical leadership position and to improve the
way in which we service our customers. In particular:
• We adopted a process of sharing our technical roadmap 
over the next two years with the Group’s key customers to 
ensure that we take their plans into account in establishing 
our future development plans and priorities, thereby 
increasingly making ANT part of their own development 
and service plans;
• We worked with all the major chipset manufacturers to 
ensure product compatibility, thereby enabling our software 
to support whichever chipset our device manufacturer 
should select;
• ANT Galio Browser Release 3.0 was launched at IBC in 
September 2008 providing device manufacturers with 
improved performance and extended compliance with 
industry standards;
• We launched our CDK - an editing and content de-bugging
tool that reduces application developers’ and operators’ 
time to market.
Outlook
While in no way impervious to current economic conditions,
there are a number of factors specific to our business that
make us cautiously optimistic that we should see further
growth in revenue in 2009. In particular: 
• We started 2009 with a strong pipeline of deals which we 
expect to close during the year – the first of which has 
already been signed with SoftAtHome adopting ANT Galio
Browser;
• We expect our available markets to develop in 2009;
• We expect to benefit from an increase in average royalty 
rate as the unit shipments of ANT Galio based products 
form a higher percentage of total unit shipments by our 
licensees; and
• We expect to continue to benefit from currency exchange 
rates in 2009.
Our market has strong structural reasons why it will continue
to grow over the next three to five years. Provided we
continue to deliver products to our customers that allow
them to drive attractive services into the consumer market,
more quickly and more efficiently than anything offered by
our competitors, we believe that ANT has an exciting future
ahead.
Simon Woodward
Chief Executive
2nd March 2009
ANT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008  9
