 ANT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009  5
Chairman’s Statement
ANT enjoyed another year of solid progress. Revenue grew by
26 per cent., with continued stringent control of overheads
and cash. Loss before tax was reduced by 38 per cent and
the second half generated the business’ first operational
profit. The digital television market continues to develop at a
fast pace, driven by consumer demand for additional services
and capabilities from digital television providers. While the
recession has had some impact on our customers and their
deployments, with royalties being lower than planned, the
year was marked by the adoption of the Web Service TV
model by mainstream TV, a model supported by the ANT
Galio Platform, and launched in Germany during the year.
ANT has developed a platform for growth, built on an
extensive range of customers, made up predominately of tier
one and tier two television device manufacturer licensees.
Collectively, these licensees are expected to drive the future
growth of the TV market and the expansion of services
delivered via the TV. 
We are seeing evidence that Web Service technology will form
the foundation for TV service deployment across all the major
sectors: Cable, Satellite and Free-To-Air and we were
delighted to have signed licensing contracts in all three of
these sectors during the year. 
Over a number of years, ANT has gained a strong reputation
as a leader in the use of Web Services in TV. ANT is very well
positioned to capitalise on this strength through the
deployment of its Web Service enabled products as its
customers support this change in the market. All of these
factors combine to give the Board continued confidence in
ANT’s future growth.
I would like to thank Bruce Anderson, who left the Board in
May 2009, for his contribution to the Board in general and, in
particular, his chairing of the audit committee and
membership of the remuneration committee.
On behalf of the Board, I would also like to thank all of our
employees for their commitment and contribution to the
continued development of the business in the last year.
Royston Hoggarth
Chairman
1 March 2010
