 Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Introduction
ANT is a leading provider of software and services for the
delivery of digital TV, deriving its revenue from a license and
royalty model. 2009 was another year of encouraging growth 
for ANT in a challenging economic environment. Revenues
increased by 26 per cent., while loss before tax was reduced by
38 per cent. and cash reserves have continued to be tightly
managed, the Company made an operating profit in the second
half of the year. ANT has continued to build a strong position in
the TV market signing strategically important new deals in the
year confirming the relevance of ANT’s products across all TV
sectors.
Consumers drive the development of new TV services:
Increasingly, today’s consumer expects media devices to be
connected and to be able to merge on-line media with other
media sources. The specification of TV consumer electronics
products increasingly reflects this demand with more and more
products offering access to Web based services, such as iPlayer
video-on-demand, social networking and on-line games. While
TV operators and broadcasters experiment with new services to
build an understanding of what constitutes a compelling
consumer TV experience, it is becoming increasingly clear that
Web Services will be at the heart of this change in the
consumer’s use of media.
Television Web Services model enables consumer demand 
to be met:
Television Web Services are a new generation of TV services
based on highly flexible service-development techniques
pioneered in the World Wide Web. The use of a Web Services
model provides TV operators and broadcasters with significant
reductions in TV service development time and cost. Such is the
flexibility of this approach that the look and feel of TV services
can be changed regularly and new services can be introduced
and withdrawn as and when an operator, broadcaster or even
the consumer chooses. The use of Web Service technology is
being further accelerated through the increased use of hybrid TV
devices, which are simultaneously able to combine the benefits
of broadband and traditional mechanisms of TV service delivery. 
Through the ANT Galio Platform, the Company is well positioned
to exploit this growing momentum in Web Services TV. 
6 ANT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 Financial Review
Revenue for the year increased 26% to £4.7m (2008: £3.7m).
Licence and royalty revenue rose by 28% to £3.7m (2008:
£2.9m) due to the broadened product range and increase in
total customer numbers. Professional Services revenue
increased 17% to £1.0m (2008: £0.9m). 
While the number of licences signed in 2009 was the 
same as last year, 14, the average potential size of the
deployments for which these licences will be used has
increased significantly. This gives us great confidence for
growth in the number of future unit shipments. 
The total number of units shipped during the year reduced 
by 8% to 2.9m units (2008: 3.2m), due mainly to market
conditions and some delay in silicon chip production. However,
we are pleased to report an underlying increase of 22% in
revenue generating shipments as prepaid units were
substantially reduced. The market conditions inevitably
impacted our customers and the number of customers
shipping over 100,000 units reduced to 7 (2008: 9). Despite
the challenging economic environment, we are pleased to see
customers returning to us to license additional elements of our
product portfolio to enable them to respond quickly to
requirements.  
Gross margins increased to 87% (2008: 83%) due to the
increase in license and royalty revenue in the product mix,
which has a lower associated cost of sales. In addition, the
cost to deliver professional services has been reduced during
the year through the use of short-term employees rather than
more expensive external contractors as had been used
previously.
Operating costs increased 8% to £4.8m (2008: £4.4m) with all
but £0.03m of this increase relating to the impact of foreign
exchange charges on the Income Statement. Spending on
R&D, excluding customer funded elements, increased by 2%
to £2.48m (2008: £2.43m) and share option charges were
broadly unchanged at £0.02m (2008: £0.01m). The average
headcount for the year increased to 52 (2008:47).
The Company remains focused on managing both its cost
base and its working capital, with the second half of the year
producing an operating profit. This is in line with the seasonal
nature of the business and was in line with the directors’
expectations.
The average Sterling/US Dollar rate for the year was $1.60
(2008: $1.80). Approximately 97% of the Group’s business in
the year was conducted outside the UK (2008: 90%), the
majority of which was denominated in US dollars, therefore the
drop in the exchange rate had a significant impact on Group
revenues. 
Losses before tax were reduced by 38% to £0.6m (2008: £1.0m)
driven by the growth in revenues.  
Cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets at 
31 December 2009 were £5.05m (2008: £5.65m).
The Group received an R&D tax credit during the year relating
to 2007 and 2008 (in prior years only one year’s cash was
received during each financial year) resulting in an increase of
£0.2m to total cash inflows, which will not be repeated in
future years. Income from interest deposits was £0.08m (2008:
£0.32m), due to a fall in interest rates. 
The Group has unrecognised tax losses available to be offset
against future profits of £10.5m (2008: £10.6m). 
The Directors are not recommending the payment of a final
dividend.
The Board considers Group revenue, Group loss before tax,
Cash and Cash equivalents and unit shipments to be the Key
Performance Indicators which are the most effective measures
of the progress towards achieving the Group’s objectives.
Market Review
We have seen a significant broadening of our market during
the year. ANT’s belief has always been that the digital TV
market’s evolution would see the convergence of terrestrial,
satellite, cable and broadband delivered television. ANT’s
product and marketing strategy is now successfully taking
advantage of this convergence through the provision of its
ANT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009  7 Chief Executive Officer’s Review
continued
Web Services platform and application products. These products
are compatible with all major TV network structures and device
types, thus maximising ANT’s opportunity across the whole TV
market.
The following examples of market development have had a
significant positive impact on our business and bode well for
future growth prospects:  
Growing market for hybrid devices
There is a growing requirement from TV broadcasters and
operators for set-top-boxes to have hybrid capabilities,
combining, in a single set-top-box, the ability to receive television
services via the Internet, as well as via traditional broadcast
delivery channels (cable, satellite and terrestrial). Our ANT Galio
Platform has been specifically developed to support hybrid set-
top-box requirements and we have seen a considerable increase
in the level of interest in the ANT Galio Platform. This hybrid
format allows broadcasters and operators to deliver additional
services over broadband, reducing churn and increasing average
revenue per unit (ARPU). Broadcasters in Germany, for example,
are using this capability to migrate from traditional teletext to HD
digital text and rich Web based services including on-demand
video. Hybrid devices are now mainstream in the market with
Web Services seeing rapid consumer take up.
A compelling example of this development was the launch in
August 2009 of a new industry initiative called Hybrid broadcast
broadband TV (HbbTV), a cross industry initiative aimed at
harmonising the broadcast and broadband delivery of content to
the end consumer through TVs and set-top boxes. As one of the
initial members, ANT has played a key role in developing the
specification with European industry leaders including:
broadcasters Canal+, France Televisions, and TF1; German
research institute Institut für Rundfunktechnik; and, satellite
operator SES ASTRA.
ANT’s involvement in HbbTV has lead to a number of new and
existing customers licensing the ANT Galio HbbTV Platform, a
complete go-to-market solution providing full support for HbbTV
services. In December 2009 Humax became the first device
manufacturer to launch an HbbTV retail set-top box. This was
based on the ANT Galio HbbTV platform.
Market broadening into Satellite and Cable: new licences
with Arab Media Corporation (AMC) and Cisco
Satellite and cable operators are now recognising the benefits
of a Web based TV service model providing ANT with the
opportunity of successfully targeting these high volume
markets. This again has resulted in an increased level of interest
in our ANT Galio Platform and during 2009 we signed new
licences with Arab Media Corporation (AMC), the satellite TV
operator and owner of Arab Radio and Television (ART), and
Cisco’s cable TV division.  
The agreement with Cisco is an extension of our existing
licence enabling them to use the ANT Galio Platform across its
mainstream cable market solutions in addition to the existing
IPTV licence. Cisco has already begun deploying units in an
IPTV environment based on ANT’s products, this latest
development will see our software used to target a significantly
bigger, already established, mainstream market. 
We have licensed ANT Galio Browser and ANT Galio Core
Applications to AMC, our first tier-one satellite operator which
covers 26 countries in the Middle East and North Africa, for its
new service which is due to be launched in 2010. 
Operational Review
Supporting Industry Standards
Standards are central to the shaping of an industry and enable 
a market to mature. ANT has a strong heritage in developing
standards-based solutions which we believe are vital to the
delivery of high volume deployments. We therefore continue to
support a number of important industry standards, actively
contributing to the Open IPTV Forum (OIPF), the Digital TV
Group (DTG) and the Digital Video Broadcasting Project (DVB) 
as well as the recently launched HbbTV initiative described
above. We were also accepted during the year as a member of
the prestigious European Telecommunications Standards
Institute (ETSI).  
Delivering New Services
We are seeing an increasing number of device manufacturers
aiming to differentiate their product offerings by providing
additional content and services to their customers. These are
8 ANT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 often delivered via a portal which provides access to a wide
range of content such as news, information and entertainment.
At the IBC show in September 2009, we demonstrated a
Managed Service concept, a scalable, on-demand, TV and
Web services delivery platform, which meets this emerging
industry requirement. 
Outlook
We have been extremely encouraged by the significant licence
deals signed in 2009, especially with leading satellite and cable
organisations. These deals represent our entry into high volume
TV markets. We expect initial roll-out in these sectors to
commence during the second half of 2010, driving both
revenue growth and a general increase in market awareness of
the potential of hybrid TV. 
A further significant development was the adoption of Web
Services by the hybrid Free-To-Air market, which has the
potential to far outstrip that of the operator market. Whilst still
at an early stage, ANT has a pivotal role to play in the future
development of Web Services within the Free-To-Air market
through its central position in initiatives such as HbbTV. 
Although the timing of the acceleration point for these markets
remains unclear, ANT was profitable in the second half and
continues to reduce its losses and grow its revenues for the full
year within a challenging economic environment and, therefore,
we continue to view the future with confidence.
Simon Woodward
Chief Executive Officer
1 March 2010
ANT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009  9
