 ANT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
Our focus during 2010 was to continue to increase
our presence in new areas of the web-enabled TV
market, building on our established position in the
operator (IPTV) market. While revenue has decreased
during the year, we have achieved successes on
many fronts and strengthened our operations while
continuing to move towards profitability.
ANT’s customers no longer comprise solely of set-
top box manufacturers and telecoms operators
targeting the IPTV market. The surge in the TV
industry towards integration of the Web with
traditional TV means our software is now being
incorporated into Freeview and Freesat set-top-boxes
in the UK and sold direct to consumers through the
retail channel. ANT’s software is also being used for
the subscription cable and satellite markets as well as
being integrated into silicon chips to be incorporated
into “Connected” television sets and Blu-ray players.
The expansion of our industry began over 18 months
ago. However the impact of the economic downturn
and the technological complexities which naturally
accompany the implementation of new
communication delivery methods mean that we are
still just at the start of this new TV era.  What is clear,
though, is that the combination of our many years’
experience and unique product set mean we
continue to have a strong competitive advantage.
Our standards based approach to software means we
can work across all technology platforms and as such
are unrestricted in our potential technology
customers and partners.
Financial Review
Revenue for the year decreased 7% to £4.35m (2009:
£4.70m). Whilst the market for our Professional
Services continues to drive revenues and shows an
increase of 22%, we saw a 15% fall in Licence and
Royalty revenue in the period.
There were 10 licences signed in the year which was
down from the prior year (2009: 14). However, the
change in focus of the licensees, such as the
Connected TV market, gives us confidence that we
are seeing traction in areas with strong growth
potential.
ANT’s software is now being
incorporated into Freeview
and Freesat set-top-boxes in
the UK.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
4 ANT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 
5
The total number of units shipped during the year was up by 22% to 3.57m units (2009:
2.92m). This growth was in both legacy product royalties and newer ANT Galio products.
The strength of our legacy IP business provides us with a strong foundation from which to
continue to address the new verticals of the TV market which we believe have the potential
to be significantly larger. While the number of customers shipping over 100,000 units in the
year reduced to 5 (2009: 7), one customer shipped over 1.5m units.
The product mix shifted slightly, Professional Services contributed 28% to the overall
revenue total (2009: 22%) and the gross margin was maintained at the 2009 level of 87%.
Operating costs decreased 8% to £4.43m (2009: £4.80m). Spending on R&D, excluding
customer funded elements, decreased by 11% to £2.21m (2009: £2.48m). Share option
charges in the period resulted in a credit of £0.04m (2009: charge of £0.02m). The average
headcount for the year decreased to 50 (2009: 52).
While the focus has been on
keeping a tight rein on costs,
investment has also been made
in strengthening our sales team
with the appointment of a new
Sales Director in November
2010.
Cash was significantly ahead of
expectations with cash and
cash equivalents and other
financial assets closing the year
at £4.97m (2009: £5.05m),
resulting in cash burn of
£0.08m (2009: £0.60m).
The average Sterling/US Dollar rate for the year was $1.55 (2009: $1.60). Approximately 95%
of the Group’s revenue in the year was conducted outside the UK (2009: 97%), the majority
of which was denominated in US dollars. The stability of the US dollar against sterling lead
to a minimal charge to the income statement (2009: charge of £0.08m).
Loss before tax was below that of the prior year at £0.58m (2009: £0.63m) driven by the
reduction in costs in line with revenue.  
The Group received cash relating to the 2009 R&D tax credit of £0.21m during the year
(2009: cash was received for both 2008 and 2007 equating to £0.42m). Income from
interest deposits was down to £0.05m (2009: £0.08m) due to lower interest rates. 
The Group has unrecognised tax losses available to be offset against future profits of £10.9m
(2009: £10.5m). 
No payment of final dividend will be made due to negative distributable reserves. Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
ANT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
The Board considers Group revenue, Gross Margin, Group loss before tax, cash and cash
equivalents and unit shipments to be the Key Performance Indicators which are the most
effective measures of the progress towards achieving the Group’s objectives.
New Markets
Retail channel
HbbTV
We have entered the retail channel through our involvement in HbbTV (Hybrid Broadcast
Broadband TV) which provides a standardised approach to the support of hybrid TV
services. Hybrid TV combines the delivery of broadcast and broadband TV services such as
on-demand and catch-up TV in one device and is an area where ANT has been particularly
focused in the last two years. We remain active within the HbbTV consortium as a founding
member.
Adopted initially by all German broadcasters, the first HbbTV devices were commercially
deployed by Humax in December 2009 using the ANT Galio Platform.  ANT’s platform
provides a fully integrated implementation of the HbbTV standard that has also now been
adopted in France. 
HbbTV is expected to continue to grow in 2011 with
deployments in both France and Germany. The UK
TV market is also converging on the use of major
elements of the HbbTV standard and ANT is already
deploying products in the UK that employ its HbbTV
platform. Most TV vendors are committed to the
deployment of HbbTV compatible products and ANT
sees this as providing an opportunity for growth.
Freeview & Freesat
In addition to HbbTV deployments, the ANT Galio
Platform has been selected for hybrid roll outs across
other regions, the most notable being the UK where
Humax has used the ANT Galio Platform in its latest
range of Freeview set-top boxes. This product range
was introduced to market in the early part of 2011.
Emerging UK opportunities, such as Freeview and Freesat products, distributed through
established retail sales channels, are likely to see increased demand driven by the digital
switch over in the UK.
Connected TV market
Many of today’s TVs include internet connectivity. This functionality is driven by the device
manufacturers’ ambition to differentiate their products and generate new revenue streams
through the delivery of on-demand web-based services such as LoveFilm or Netflix.
These positive developments have broadened ANT’s market reach and led ANT to engage
and license its products to new customer types. ANT’s entry into the Connected TV market
has been facilitated by landmark contracts signed within the year with two Taiwanese
6 system-on-a-chip (SoC) vendors. Licensing ANT’s software enables them to offer turnkey
solutions to Connected TV and Blu-ray device vendors.
Partnerships
In the autumn of 2010 ANT made two significant strategic announcements; the availability
of BBC iPlayer and Sky Player on the ANT platform. This enables UK consumers to receive
on-demand services via an internet connection on ANT enabled set-top boxes and TVs.
Humax was the first customer to launch these services, providing them to consumers as
part of its Freeview set-top box range in the UK.
Growing market complexity
While the requirement for web-based services such as those enabled by ANT becomes
ever more important to set-top box and TV manufacturers, the complexity of the solution
required to deliver these services remains challenging. Manufacturers are struggling to
address the new opportunities due to the increasing level of base line functionality now
required. This increased complexity has lead to longer product sales and development
cycles.
The clear growth potential of the TV market has attracted increased competitor activity.
These competitive entrants are viewed as providing only partial solutions and ANT remains
the most mature and a highly trusted solution provider, however this competitive activity
has contributed to the extension of sales cycles.
Outlook
The TV industry is on the verge of a new era of growth, driven by the merger of traditional
TV and the internet. ANT’s ability to deliver this functionality positions us at the heart of
these developments.  As is to be expected with this kind of major market shift, it will take
time for clarity of market direction to emerge and momentum in the industry to flow
through to ANT.
However, we continue to make progress, signing several land-mark contracts in an
increasingly competitive environment. These successes, combined with the robust nature
of our traditional operator-led business means we view the future with confidence. 
Simon Woodward, Chief Executive Officer
1 March 2011
ANT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 
7
