 ANT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 
Chairman’s Statement
ANT has increased
the scope of its
product offering.
2010 was a year of consolidation and change for both ANT and the TV industry 
as a whole. Although reported revenue was disappointing, all other key metrics in the
business were either maintained or improved in the year with the focus remaining on
driving business growth in new high growth markets.
We continue to invest in R&D whilst controlling administrative expenses. While we see
broader opportunities in new market areas, it is important to note that our historic operator
market continues to generate significant revenue and looks set to capitalise on the
technology being adopted in the retail markets. This provides ANT with a robust platform
from which to target new TV markets.
It is difficult to assess the impact of the economic climate on the Company, but current
indications are that it has lengthened our customers’ decision making processes. However,
because ANT’s web-based service functionality is core to the future of TV, these delays are
not expected to continue in what is an increasingly competitive environment where
differentiation through the inclusion of value added web-based services is key.
ANT has traditionally licensed its software predominantly to set-top box manufacturers
which in turn is deployed by operators. However, the evolving retail market and increasing
interest from TV manufacturers presents a broader range of opportunities for the business.  
Increasingly, the target markets for ANT’s products require a complete, pre-integrated set-
top box or TV software solution. This has led ANT to increase the scope of its product
offering through a combination of its own IP and pre-integrated partner IP to provide a
complete solution. This broadening of the product has also resulted in ANT being able to
successfully target the large UK Free-to-Air market.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of the team for their continued hard work in
what has been a challenging year for both the management team and employees. We have
many opportunities and remain committed to the delivery of increased shareholder value.
Royston Hoggarth, Chairman
1 March 2011
3 3
