 888 Holdings Public Limited Company  C H I E F E X E C U T I V E 
OF F I C E R’ S R E V I E W
2 0 07
Our success in 2007 was based on a clear 
strategy and business focus coupled with 
great execution.
* 	 E x c l u d i n g 	 s h a r e 	 b e n e fi t 	 c h a r g e s 	 o f 	 U S $ 7 . 8 	 m i l l i o n 	 ( 2 0 0 6 : 	 U S $ 8 . 8 	 m i l l i o n ) . 	 C o n t i n u i n g 	 o p e r a t i o n s .
2007 was a year of transformation for 
888, in which we had to restructure the 
business following the enactment in the 
United States of the Unlawful Internet 
Gaming Enforcement Act (“UIGEA”) in 
October 2006, which resulted in us losing 
55% of our revenues almost overnight. 
I am very pleased to report that we  
have now successfully completed the 
restructuring and repositioning of the 
business and have delivered very strong 
results for the year, both in terms of 
revenue and profit. We have emerged a 
better company, clearer in our strategy, 
more diverse and complete in our 
offering, with a stronger presence in  
more markets and much greater local, 
“in-country” focus. We have also 
restructured our senior operational 
management team, with a mix of 
experienced managers from within the 
Group and seasoned executives recruited 
from other industries, enabling us to 
innovate where the industry has been 
slow to change in recent years. 
The financial results speak for 
themselves: the 106% Profit Before Tax* 
growth to US$46 million and 38%. Total 
Operating Income growth to 
US$217 million demonstrate the resilience 
of our business, the strength of our team  
and the continued attractiveness of our 
business model. With basic earnings per 
share* of 12.6 cents and strong 2007 we 
have fully recovered from the effects of 
UIGEA. With various strategic initiatives 
now under way, we see a bright future for 
the business. 
Gigi Levy 
Chief Executive Officer
These are excellent results and given  
our strong financial performance, we  
will be paying a final dividend of 5.0 cents 
per share, in addition to the interim 
dividend of 1.8 cents per share paid in 
October 2007.
Delivering on our strategy 
Our success in 2007 was based on a 
clear strategy and business focus 
coupled with great execution. Our 
strategy was founded on the same 
principles that had made us successful in 
previous years but building on these core 
principles in order to incorporate several 
new directions allowing us to accelerate 
growth. We continued focusing on 
acquiring and retaining valuable 
customers by delivering a compelling, 
localised, innovative, unique and 
entertaining customer experience while 
embarking on new initiatives. These 
initiatives included strategic partnerships, 
the use of new and innovative marketing 
channels, the integration of third party 
games, the introduction of enhanced 
communication and entertainment 
features and a revolutionary gaming 
environment in which customers can 
access all games from a single location. 
2007 was a phenomenal year in terms of 
the development of our offering. We 
introduced an “industry first” with our first 
fully-integrated gaming environment, 
which allows access to all of our games 
from one location. This approach clearly 
enhanced revenues from customers who 
were able, for the first time, to play any 
game they wanted without limitation and 
enabled us to better cross-sell and up- Annual Report & Accounts 2007  sell to our customers. The success of  
this approach is now proven and we  
will continue to provide an integrated 
environment to more customers and add 
more games into this environment. 
Another significant development effort 
centred on opening our platform to easy 
integration with games from other 
providers. Whilst we will continue 
developing our own core games and 
technological infrastructure, we will 
carefully select “best-of-breed” partners 
to provide us with additional games, 
particularly those with a local flavour, 
which will assist us in penetrating local 
markets. The first of these games is being 
introduced and we plan to leverage this 
infrastructure investment and integrate 
various additional games in the coming 
years, with a number already in the 
pipeline for 2008. This capability will 
enable us to leverage the Internet’s “long 
tail” phenomena as we have no “real 
estate” costs in putting more games into 
our software client. The introduction of 
additional games, even if they will only  
be played by a small percentage of our 
customers, will have a positive return  
on investment. 
One of the key focuses of our 
development effort was the integration of 
a Sport betting platform into our offering. 
This process was successfully completed 
towards the end of the year and the 
service was recently launched. We have 
also introduced a live-dealer solution with 
our Asian partner, Entertasia, which will 
increase our presence in the Asian 
market. Early 2008 saw the introduction 
of 888ladies which is positioned to 
appeal to a whole new market for the 
Group. With these new products we now 
have a strong and complete portfolio, 
with our business based on the four core 
pillars of Casino, Poker, Sportsbetting 
and Bingo together with supplementary 
Backgammon and Live-Dealer products. 
During the year we managed to upgrade 
and improve all of our existing platforms, 
introducing new Casino and Poker 
versions with additional games, innovative 
features and a better overall interactive 
customer experience. One such 
enhancement was the introduction of our 
first-ever branded game – the “Blond 
Legend” video Slot which was an 
immediate success, and another was our 
innovative Poker client allowing users to 
choose a 3D or 2D view with a rotating 
table and various additional features. 
Finally, given the focus on geographic 
expansion, we succeeded in completing 
the translation and localisation of all our 
Casino games into the 14 languages we 
currently support on top of expanding our 
language proposition with two brand new 
languages. This major effort resulted in 
an immediate increase in revenues in 
markets which previously were not 
supported by a fully localised product. 
As in previous years, we were proud  
to see our innovative, market-leading 
offering being selected for various 
awards, including the prestigious C a s i n o	
o f 	 th e 	 Y e a r award both in the eGaming 
and the Online Gambling Awards. 
From a marketing perspective, 2007 was 
focused on additional brand building, 
innovative marketing tools, loyalty 
increasing programmes and a significant 
drive on local and integrated marketing 
efforts. Overall we had a very good year 
in which we managed to grow our 
business whilst keeping marketing spend 
at 33% of NGR.
In terms of brand building, we have 
invested in re-launching the 888 brand in 
conjunction with our “Enjoy the Game” 
tagline across all media channels and 
markets. This new campaign delivered 
our best ever brand awareness as 
reflected in surveys conducted in the  
UK and Spain. This campaign was a 
milestone in our brand building efforts.
For the first time ever, in 2007 we invested 
in web 2.0 marketing channels, including 
viral campaigns based on a combination 
of professionally crafted and user 
generated content. We have also 
integrated various additional innovative 
online marketing tools in various areas, 
especially in the search engine domain, 
which allowed us to keep our marketing 
costs within the challenging budget that 
had been set.
Customer Relationship Management 
(“CRM”) has always been one of our core 
competencies with our industry leading 
service levels and the personal service 
we are known to provide to our 
customers. 2007 saw further 
enhancements with the publication of the 
first two issues of our premium customer 
magazine “Eight”, our improved loyalty 
programme and implementation of 
improved communication and 
promotional tools. Coupled with our 
world-famous VIP programme, our CRM 
approach has ensured a very successful 
2007 in terms of customers’ lifetime value 
and loyalty. 
Our marketing success in 2007 relied fully 
on a localised and integrated approach. 
We implemented better co-ordination 
across the Group and comprehensive 
monitoring of our activities in every 
market. We signed more local TV deals 
across Europe, and benefited from 
extensive international coverage of our 
successful sponsorships of the World 
Snooker Championship and Sevilla 
Football Club. The outcome of these 
localisation efforts is apparent in our 
numbers, which show far better 
geographical diversification, with our 
European market increasing to 42% of 
our business in 2007 compared to 36% 
in 2006. We are most satisfied with our 
growth across various markets and will 
continue investing in localised integrated 
marketing efforts in 2008 as we continue 
to penetrate yet more new markets.  888 Holdings Public Limited Company  The most significant strategic move in  
the year was our decision to expand  
our pure business-to-consumer business 
model with a combined approach  
which includes working with carefully 
selected strategic business-to-business 
partners. Under the “Powered by 888” 
endorsement, we have launched a new 
line of business as a service provider to 
virtual operators. We launched three new 
partnerships in 2007 with Rileys in the 
UK, Tower Torneos in Latin America and 
LuckyAce in Europe. More such 
partnerships will follow with several 
already in the pipeline.
This new area of our business received a 
significant boost with our acquisition of 
the Bingo assets of Globalcom in May 
2007. This transaction positioned 888 at 
the forefront of online Bingo service 
providers, serving leading business 
partners such as Cashcade, operating 
Foxy Bingo, Bingo Scotland and a 
number of other well-known brands. We 
have already secured additional Bingo 
deals, including with WinkBingo, a newly 
launched Bingo network.
While the core of our business remains in 
the business-to-consumer area, this new 
approach enables us to better leverage 
our investments and generate additional 
revenues and profit streams from market 
segments where penetration would 
require significant additional effort and 
marketing spend. This activity has already 
contributed to our bottom line in 2007 
and is expected to grow in importance in 
the coming years as we announce new 
deals. Our success resulted in the Best 
L a n d - L i n k s 	 P a r tn e r s h i p award in the 
eGaming awards is a clear indication of 
the innovative nature of our approach in 
this area.
During 2007 we successfully integrated 
our acquired Bingo assets which now 
work as a seamless part of our business. 
On top of this successful integration, we 
have managed to accelerate the growth 
of the Bingo business which grew 
phenomenally throughout the year. This 
now proven ability to acquire value-
enhancing assets and integrate them into 
our business underlines the validity of our 
M&A approach and therefore we will 
continue to look for the right opportunities 
to supplement our strong organic growth. 
In addition to our strong financial  
results, our overall performance was 
acknowledged in our securing, for the 
first time, the Best Betting and Gambling 
C o m p a n y award in the 2007 Leisure 
Report awards. 
Finally, we continue to be indebted to our 
fantastic team of employees who have 
succeeded in delivering the outstanding 
2007 results. We have a phenomenal 
team at all levels, with extremely talented 
individuals who are led by a world-class 
management team. To maintain this team 
and ensure their ongoing motivation we 
continue to strive to be the employer of 
choice. These efforts have resulted in 
successful new recruits into the Group. 
Our employees will remain a key part of 
our focus in the years to come. 
Regulation
While the regulatory landscape remains 
unstable in some regions, 2007 saw 
some positive developments. In Europe, 
the European Court of Justice’s ruling  
in the Placanica case restated the 
importance of EU regulations to our 
industry. This decision, together with the 
recent infringement actions and position 
letters from the European Commission, 
marks a very positive development 
enabling EU licensed operators, such as 
888, to provide their services throughout 
the European Union. Moreover, we have 
seen a trend throughout the year of 
additional European jurisdictions 
embarking on a path to license and 
regulate online gaming, a route which  
we clearly welcome. 
Outside of Europe we have seen initial 
signs of positive regulation both in Asia-
Pacific and Latin America, where newly 
introduced regulations in some 
jurisdictions could allow us to benefit from 
working in a locally licensed environment. 
As previously stated, we see these to be 
very positive developments as we 
continue to pursue a clear regulatory 
framework for all jurisdictions in which  
we operate. We will continue to monitor 
the regulatory landscape and to look  
for opportunities to operate in  
regulated markets.
As stated in our announcement dated 
5 June 2007, we have initiated preliminary 
discussions with the United States 
Attorney’s Office for the Southern District 
of New York relating to our activity in  
the US prior to the signing of the UIGEA. 
It is too early to assess any particular 
outcome of these discussions.
Responsible gaming
2007 was also a turning point in our 
approach to responsible gaming.  
Whilst 888 has always been a leader  
in supporting the prevention of problem 
and underage gambling we recruited  
a dedicated executive to handle these 
important issues. We have, as a result, 
introduced both enhanced tools and 
policies giving us an even tighter control 
on problem and underage gamblers. 
These efforts were acknowledged  
by Gamcare who awarded us their 
responsible gambling certificate. 
Recently, our educational efforts 
developed even further with the 
introduction of www.888responsible.
com, a website dedicated for providing 
access to tools which identify and deal 
with problem gambling. This industry-first 
educational effort and our additional 
activities in the area mark our continued 
commitment to prevent problem and 
underage gambling.
Our 2008 focus
2008 will see the continued execution of 
our strategy with accelerated innovation 
facilitated by the investment made in our 
infrastructure in 2007. Now that we have 
delivered all of the required products, 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’s REVIEW cont.
Best operator of the year – 2007 Annual Report & Accounts 2007  developed integration capabilities and 
white labelling capability together with  
a far deeper localised offering, we  
can focus on the monetisation of  
these assets. 
In terms of our offering, our plans include 
the introduction of several new games, 
with a strong focus on localised games 
which will continue to support our push 
into new markets. We will continue  
to develop our relationships with third 
party games providers to ensure that  
we will not miss any exciting, potential 
“hit” games. We will also introduce 
various new innovative features such as 
increased personalisation, tournaments 
around Casino games and more  
content and entertainment across  
our product portfolio.
From a marketing perspective, 2008 will 
see further investment in our brand and 
the use of additional innovative marketing 
channels. We will also introduce some 
major events such as the recently 
launched US$3 million World Poker 
Crown Poker tournament and a major 
event planned for 8 August 2008 – the 
“888” date! 
On the business-to-business front, we 
aim to sign and launch more strategic 
partnership deals as a means to 
accelerate our growth. 
Outlook
2008 has started well, especially with  
our recently introduced female-oriented 
Bingo proposition, 888ladies. This 
innovative website, which already boasts 
thousands of active customers daily, is 
performing above our expectations. 
The recent launch of our Sportsbetting 
proposition, 888sport, is already 
generating revenues and, coupled  
with several more planned product 
launches, we expect our offering to 
continue being one of the main  
growth drivers of our business.
With our current strategic partnerships 
performing well, we are progressing with 
additional potential partners and we 
expect at least one new partnership to  
be launched in 2008. 
Given the positive start to 2008, the 
successful launch of 888ladies and 
888sport, our strategic partnership deals, 
current trading and our clear business 
strategy and focus, we are confident in 
delivering future growth during 2008.
Gigi Levy
Chief Executive Officer
