 8 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2010
T r a d i n g 	 i m p r o v e d 	 i n 	 t h e 	 s e c o n d 	 h al f 	 o f 	 t h e	
y e a r 	 w i t h 	 r e v e n u e 	 u p 	 1 3 % 	 a n d 	 a d j u s t e d	
E B I T D A 	 u p 	 3 2 % 	 c o m p a r e d 	 t o 	 t h e 	 s e c o n d 	 h al f	
o f 	 2 0 0 9 . 	 T h i s 	 m o m e n t u m 	 h a s 	 c o n t i n u e d 	 i n t o	
2 0 1 1 	 w h i c h 	 h as 	 be gu n 	 w e l l .
G e ra l d 	 Co r be t t	
Ch a i r m a n
Chairman’s Statement 
Results
Against a tough economic backdrop in 2009 the new 
management team stabilised the business – reducing cost, 
improving our basic business processes and establishing an 
investment programme in product and brand that would 
provide a solid platform to return the business to growth.
We saw the benefits of these actions in 2010 in both revenue 
and profitability. Revenue improved throughout the course of 
the year and ended the year 9% ahead as a whole having been 
5% ahead at the end of the first half of the year. Adjusted 
EBITDA increased by 14% in the year having been broadly flat at 
the end of the first half as a result of our front loaded 
investment programme.
Profitability improved markedly in the second half of the year 
increasing by 32% over the same period in 2009 as the Group 
began to see the benefits of its investment programme.
These results reflect the continuing strength and diversity  
of our business model as our Insurance, Money and Home 
Services verticals all grew helping to offset the declines 
experienced in our Travel vertical, which continued to suffer  
in line with the rest of the travel market and consequently 
continued to be managed for margin.
Dividend
The Company paid an interim dividend of 1.3p per ordinary 
share on 17 September 2010, consistent with the interim 
dividends paid in 2008 and 2009.
During the year, the business continued to generate cash, and we 
ended the year with cash balances of £36.6m. With the business 
growing, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.53p per 
ordinary share, a 15% increase on the final dividend paid in 2008 
and 2009 (excluding the impact of special dividends). If approved 
by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting,  
this will bring the total dividend for the year to 3.83p per ordinary 
share and will be paid on 13 May 2011 to all shareholders on the 
register at 8 April 2011. 
Strategic progress
The 2010 results are a reflection of the implementation of the 
Group’s strategy outlined in early 2010. Having taken decisive 
action in 2009 in response to the global financial crisis and 
realigned the cost base, the focus in 2010 has been on growing 
the business. 
We continued to invest during 2010 in opportunities for 
profitable growth through the launch of enhanced market 
leading motor insurance, home insurance, savings and credit 
card channels, together with the acquisition of Financial 
Services Net Limited which provides a platform for the Group  
to broaden its brand offering to a wider range of customer 
segments in the Money and Insurance verticals. 
Our strategy will continue to underpin the Group throughout 
2011 as we launch further enhanced market leading channels 
to ensure we deliver the best customer experience through our 
websites and as we ensure our customers have the tools they 
need to compare products based on the features that are 
important to them.
Outlook
The new year has begun well and, whilst we remain alert to  
the continuing uncertainty in the wider economic environment, 
we are confident that the worst is behind us and that we will 
continue to grow in 2011. Our strong market positions and our 
diversified business model will remain key strengths as 
economic conditions improve.
Governance and the Board
Since the Group listed on the London Stock Exchange in  
2007, our Board and executive governance structures have 
continually developed and improved. We believe that good 
governance reduces risk and adds value to the business. Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance General Financial Statements
9 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2010
Business Overview Business Review
Following the changes to the Board in early 2009 with the 
appointment of Peter Plumb as Chief Executive Officer together 
with the appointments of Graham Donoghue and David Osborne 
as Executive Directors, in April 2010 the Board appointed Bruce 
Carnegie-Brown as an additional Non-Executive Director. 
Bruce has brought a wealth of experience in the financial 
services sector to the business and has provided greater 
balance to the Board.
With the implementation of the UK Corporate Governance  
Code, all of our Directors will retire at this year’s Annual 
General Meeting, and being eligible, will offer themselves  
for re-election.
Employees
2010 saw valuable additions to our team as we continued to 
position the business for future growth. The quality of our 
people continues to be a core strength and I am delighted  
that we have further enhanced our capabilities in so many  
parts of the business. 
Our results this year are down to the performance of  
Peter Plumb, his management team and all the employees  
who continue to build the business. I would like to thank  
them all for their skill and hard work during the year. 
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00am on 
Wednesday 4 May 2011 at Doubletree by Hilton Chester Hotel, 
Warrington Road, Hoole, Chester, CH2 3PD and I look forward 
to seeing you there.
Gerald Corbett
Chairman
 
