 2014 has been a successful year for the 
business, with strong second half growth 
building good momentum as we head into 
2015. I am very pleased with what we have 
achieved.
Most importantly however, the business 
has used 2014 to address the key 
components needed to execute our 
growth strategy for the next three  
years of:
• Best site: Be the easiest way for 
customers to find providers and 
products
• Earn customer loyalty: Be a destination 
brand for users and customers
• Preferred partner: Be the best way for 
providers to acquire customers 
Although our strategy has remained pretty 
much unchanged for several years, to 
ensure its continued focus and execution 
required a change in structure, skills and 
investment.
Moneysupermarket is now a Group of 
successful brands united by the common 
purpose of ‘helping every household make 
the most of their money’. We estimate that 
together, MoneySuperMarket, 
TravelSupermarket and 
MoneySavingExpert were visited by an 
average of 22.5m monthly unique visitors. 
Each brand needs to thrive to continue to 
engage its users, whilst of course 
benefiting from shared Group resources.
Therefore I have restructured the 
organisation with leaders of each business 
unit being responsible for engaging users, 
building their brand, working with 
providers, doing the right thing for 
customers and of course delivering against 
their financial targets.
I am determined to keep the Group 
structure responsible for technology, 
talent, finance and strategy lightweight 
and agile.
Our Group technology team work under 
the principle of ‘build once, use across all 
business units’. This means that our 
smaller businesses can benefit from the 
leading edge technology investments in 
MoneySuperMarket, building solid and 
robust infrastructures capable of 
sustaining significant future growth across 
our portfolio of businesses. 
This is particularly relevant as we pioneer 
the implementation of the market leading 
content management systems, future 
proofing the Group for whatever devices 
users choose to access our services in the 
years ahead. Our migration to Cloud 
infrastructure is essential to break free 
from fixed cost old traditional data centre 
architecture, designed for peak loads to a 
world of variable cost based operating 
platforms whose capacity and resources 
flex with customer demand no matter 
what time of day or day of week.
Finally and most importantly, the 
development of a Group enterprise data 
warehouse will support all our businesses 
with a single, secure infrastructure in 
which to keep customer data safe and 
drive superior and innovative 
personalisation and relevancy in real time.
Sharing talent and career development 
across the Group companies is essential 
for our long-term success. We have hired 
the most talented people we could find 
across both our London and Chester 
offices. We are exploring new ways of 
working, including tribes utilising multi-site 
and virtual working tools. 
The right acquisitions are of course a key 
part of our planning, after the successful 
purchase of MoneySavingExpert in 2012. 
Our earlier investment in HD Decisions, 
the data analytics business in 2011, 
pioneered new and exclusive services for 
both MoneySuperMarket and 
MoneySavingExpert through a suite of 
smart search tools and eligibility checker 
services. Our most recent acquisition, 
OnTrees, is a sophisticated account 
aggregation mobile App service. It is 
already benefiting from Group technology 
support whilst retaining its 
entrepreneurial culture and ways of 
working.
I am confident we are now structured for 
success, focused on a clear strategy and 
working hard to continue to hire and grow 
the best and most talented people we can 
find. 
Our brands are saving more people more 
money each year, a mission we intend to 
continue to invest and pioneer towards in 
the years ahead.
Finally, it is worth reflecting on where we 
have come from. When I joined the 
business in 2008, we were a young 
technology business, struggling to work 
closely with providers but passionate 
about using technology to help people 
save time and money when shopping for 
financial services products. For customers 
it was all about finding the cheapest prices. 
We have come a long way. 
Recently, our services have attracted a 
greater attention from our regulators, in 
part due to the growing habit exhibited by 
consumers to use price comparison 
services. The FCA, CMA and OFGEM have 
all taken a closer look at our services and 
ways of working. We have of course 
increased our internal governance and 
focus on doing the right thing for our 
customers. I am sure that like any business 
we have areas where we can do better. 
However, I am very encouraged that the 
overarching theme for our engagement 
with these bodies is that we have helped 
bring new competition to the markets in 
which we operate and that this has been 
good for consumers. 
Looking forward, our ambition is to take 
comparison services beyond price, a plan 
we have shared with our regulators and 
one they are actively encouraging the 
Group to pursue. Reassuringly it is the 
main focus of our current investment 
programme to lead what will be the next 
exciting chapter of ‘helping more people 
save more money’ within the 
Moneysupermarket Group.
Peter Plumb
Chief Executive Officer
Peter Plumb
Chief Executive Officer
14 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
Chief Executive’s Review
