 Our three leading brands give us significant 
strength, breadth and diversity, generating 
growth and increasing the predictability of 
the business. All of our brands are consistent 
in their ambition to ‘help every household 
make the most of their money’.
Results and strategic progress
In 2014 the Group’s revenue increased by 
10% from £225.6m to £248.1m and 
adjusted EBITDA increased by 13% from 
£84.0m to £95.2m.
Once again, the Group achieved growth 
across all three brands: 
MoneySuperMarket, TravelSupermarket 
and MoneySavingExpert, with 
TravelSupermarket and 
MoneySavingExpert performing 
particularly well. Within 
MoneySuperMarket, all our business areas 
grew, as customers used our services to 
help them meet their financial needs.
Our three leading brands give us 
significant strength, breadth and diversity, 
generating growth and increasing the 
predictability of the business. All of our 
brands are consistent in their ambition to 
‘help every household make the most of 
their money’.
During 2014, we began a significant 
capital investment programme to 
improve our technology, our data 
capabilities and our customer journeys. 
Early results from the investment in our 
motor insurance channel are encouraging 
and further investment will be made in 
2015 to improve the customer journey in 
home insurance and thereafter in other 
channels. This investment will enable us 
to generate additional growth from the 
business and will further differentiate our 
brands from our competitors.
In parallel, we continued to invest 
significantly in our marketing strategy, 
including the strengthening of our 
digital marketing capability and 
the continuation of our ‘You’re So 
MoneySuperMarket’ advertising campaign, 
both of which helped to drive visitors 
to the Group’s websites. The ‘You’re So 
MoneySuperMarket’ theme has continued 
into the early part of 2015 with the launch 
of our latest advertising campaign.
We continue to maintain a strong financial 
position with good cash generation. Cash 
generated from operations during the year 
was £84m. After repaying £30m of the 
loan facility during 2014, the Group ended 
the year with net cash of £13.1m.
Dividends
Our continued confidence in the underlying 
strength and growth prospects for our 
business is reflected in our progressive and 
sustainable dividend policy.
Having reviewed the cash required by the 
business and the performance of the 
Group, the Company paid an interim 
dividend of 2.31p (2013: 2.16p and a special 
dividend of 12.92p) per ordinary share on 
12 September 2014. The interim dividend 
represented an increase of 7% on the 
interim dividend paid in 2013 (excluding 
the special dividend).
During the year, the business continued to 
generate cash, and with the business 
growing, the Board is recommending a 
final dividend of 5.69p (2013: 5.12p) per 
ordinary share, representing an increase 
of 11% on the final dividend in 2013. 
If approved by shareholders at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this 
will bring the total dividend for the year to 
8.00p (2013: 7.28p excluding the special 
dividend) per ordinary share and will be 
paid on 8 May 2015 to all shareholders on 
the register on 27 March 2015. The total 
dividend for the year will represent an 
increase of 10% on the total dividend paid 
in 2013 (excluding the special dividend).
Board composition and diversity
We have a strong and balanced Board, 
with a range of complementary skills to 
support the strategic and operational 
direction of the Group. During the year, we 
appointed Andrew Fisher and Genevieve 
Shore as Independent Non-Executive 
Directors. Both have added to the Board’s 
skills and experience and their 
backgrounds are set out more fully on 
page 31 of this report. We recognise the 
importance of diversity at Board level and 
our Board members represent a wide 
range of business backgrounds. During the 
year, we also further improved the 
representation of women at Board level.
Gerald Corbett retired as Chairman of the 
Board in April 2014 and I would like to 
thank Gerald for his leadership of the 
Group over seven years, from the IPO in 
2007 and through the difficult period of 
the financial crisis. Under Gerald’s 
chairmanship, the Group returned close to 
£300m to shareholders in ordinary and 
special dividends. 
Matthew Price joined the Group as Chief 
Financial Officer in April 2014 and brings 
his diverse career experience to our 
Group, helping us shape our strategy and 
future direction as we become a larger and 
more complex business.
Chairman’s Statement
12 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 At the Annual General Meeting in April, 
Michael Wemms and Robin Klein will step 
down from the Board. Michael joined the 
Board at the IPO and has been our Senior 
Independent Director throughout his time 
on the Board whilst Robin joined the Board 
in 2013. I would like to thank Michael and 
Robin for their significant contributions to 
the Board over the years.
Board effectiveness
As Chairman, I am responsible for the 
leadership of the Board and ensuring its 
effectiveness in all aspects of its role.  
The Board is responsible for setting the 
strategic direction of the Group, monitoring 
the achievement of its business objectives, 
managing the risks inherent in the business 
and maintaining a system of effective 
corporate governance. 
Governance
The Board is committed to high standards 
of corporate governance and supports the 
principles laid down in The UK Corporate 
Governance Code published in September 
2012 by the Financial Reporting Council 
(Code).
Key areas of focus in 2014 included the 
formation of a new Board Risk Committee 
which has established a risk framework for 
the Group and manages the risks in the 
business against a number of risk metrics. 
We also conducted an external Board 
evaluation, with the assistance of SCT 
Consultants, which has helped the Board to 
review how we work, our skills, our 
diversity, our capabilities and how we can 
improve our effectiveness. We will continue 
to focus on Board effectiveness over the 
coming year. 
Given the increasing complexity of the 
Group and the formation of a new Board 
Risk Committee, the Board reviewed the 
membership of all the Committees during 
the year and made a number of changes 
with effect from 1 January 2015 to ensure 
the Committees continue to operate 
effectively. The current membership of the 
Committees are set out in the Corporate 
Governance Report on page 33. 
In line with good corporate governance, 
during the year, I ceased to be a member 
of the Board Committees with the 
exception of the Nomination Committee 
which I chair. The Board agreed that Sally 
James, as Chairman of the Risk Committee, 
should be a member of all the Committees 
to ensure that risk is appropriately 
considered in each Committee.
The Corporate Governance Report 
together with the Audit Committee Report, 
Nomination Committee Report, Risk 
Committee Report and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report are set out on pages 
32 to 57 and describe how the principles of 
the Code are applied by the Group and 
reports on the Group’s compliance with 
the Code’s provisions.
Employees
Our results this year once again reflect the 
dedication and quality of all our employees 
across the Group. We rely on their skills, 
experience, competence and hard work to 
drive our business forwards. Their 
passion, innovation and performance are 
key assets for the Group and critical to its 
future success. On behalf of the Board, I 
would like to thank all of our employees 
for their significant contribution to the 
performance of the Group. 
Outlook
The new year has begun positively and, whilst 
we remain alert to the continuing uncertainty 
in the wider economic environment, we 
remain confident about our prospects in 
2015. Our great brands, strong market 
positions, experienced people, scale and 
breadth of offering, together with the 
investments we are making to improve our 
technology and customer journeys, will 
remain key strengths in the coming year and 
enable us to continue to differentiate 
ourselves from our competition.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown
Chairman
13 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
Financial Statements General Governance Overview Strategic Report
