 06 www.moneysupermarket.com Annual Report 2007
Chairman’s Statement
‘I am pleased to report a strong set of results for the period ending 
31 December 2007 . Revenues for the year grew by 55.9% to £162.9m 
with signiﬁcant growth across all areas of the internet business.
This year has begun positively and we are conﬁdent that our business 
is sufﬁciently robust and diversiﬁed for the Group to continue to 
prosper during the so called credit crunch.’ 
It has been a year of great change and 
growth for the Group, culminating with the 
ﬂotation of the Company on the London 
Stock Exchange on 31 July 2007 and strong 
revenue and proﬁt growth throughout  
the year. The shareholding structure was 
revised earlier in the year with Simon Nixon 
acquiring the bulk of Duncan Cameron’s 
stake. This facilitated the subsequent 
ﬂotation which leaves Simon with 54.5%  
of the Company. 
I became Chairman in June ahead of the 
ﬂotation. Michael Wemms, who is our 
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director and chairs the Remuneration 
Committee, also joined me prior to the 
ﬂotation. Rob Rowley joined the Board in 
September to chair our Audit Committee. 
Both are hugely experienced businessmen 
with many years of public company service. 
Our challenge is to support Simon and his 
team as the Group grows and makes the 
transition from private to public. Greater 
size and complexity inevitably requires 
more process and structure but at the 
same time the entrepreneurial spirit at the 
heart of the Group’s success must not be 
stiﬂed and must ﬂourish. The new Board 
has made a good start, addressing the 
issues in an open and constructive way.
I am pleased to report a strong set of 
results for the period ending 31 December 
2007. Revenues for the year grew by 55.9% 
to £162.9m with signiﬁcant growth across 
all areas of the internet business. This was 
underpinned by growth in the number of 
visitors and an increase in the revenues 
generated by each visitor across each of 
the internet verticals that the Group 
operates within. 
Visitor growth has been in part driven by a 
rigorous television advertising campaign. 
This has signiﬁcantly improved brand 
recognition and encouraged consumers  
to visit our website directly, thereby 
improving gross margins. Revenue per 
visitor has increased from a continual 
improvement in the product sets we offer 
and generally from consumers’ increased 
conﬁdence in transacting online as a result 
of increased broadband penetration. 
Adjusted EBITDA increased by 57.2% to 
£52.9m which was slightly in excess of 
revenue growth. The adjusted cost base 
increased from £31.3m to £57.3m with the 
main increases from television advertising 
which rose £12.2m over last year and 
adjusted employee costs which grew  
by £6.6m to £22.8m as we continued to 
develop our product ranges.
Over the next year the Board will be 
focused upon improving the process and 
structure within the Group, working closely 
with the Executive Management Team. 
This will ensure we have the right balance 
between entrepreneurial culture and 
operational efﬁciency. 
This year has begun positively and we are 
conﬁdent that our business is sufﬁciently 
robust and diversiﬁed for the Group to 
continue to prosper during the so called 
credit crunch. This conﬁdence underpins 
the Board’s decision to recommend a ﬁnal 
dividend of 1.63p per ordinary share, to be 
paid on 30 April 2008 to ordinary 
shareholders on the register of members 
on 25 March 2008. The Group did not pay 
an interim dividend in 2007.
The new Board has settled in well and I 
would like to thank my colleagues for their 
contributions. More importantly, on behalf 
of the Board, I would like to thank our 
Executive Management Team and all of 
the Group’s employees for their hard work 
and commitment. This strong result is to 
their credit and gives us all conﬁdence for 
the future.
Gerald Corbett
Chairman
Our Business
