 14 MoneySupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2012
Business Overview Business Review
Chairman’s Statement
2012 has been another year of solid progress for the Group. 
We continued to invest heavily in our brand, our marketing, 
our site and our people. The strong ﬁnancial results reﬂect 
this commitment and the consistency with which we have 
followed and executed our strategy. This will remain 
unchanged in 2013.
Results and strategic progress
2012 was another good year for the Group as revenue 
increased by 13% from £181.0m to £204.8m and adjusted 
EBITDA increased by 26% from £52.5m to £66.5m. Our largest 
verticals, Money and Insurance, delivered solid growth during 
the year with revenue in the Money vertical increasing by 9% 
from £52.6m to £57 .4m and revenue in the Insurance vertical 
increasing by 17% from £102.7m to £120.4m.
Together with the signiﬁcant growth achieved in our Home 
Services vertical and the return to growth of our Travel vertical 
in the second half of the year, these results demonstrate the 
continuing strength and diversity of our business model.
The Group also completed its ﬁrst major strategic acquisition 
with the purchase in September of MoneySavingExpert.com 
for consideration of up to £92.5m. MoneySavingExpert.com 
operates one of the leading personal ﬁnance journalism 
websites and their principal activity is the provision of 
consumer information in relation to saving money and 
personal ﬁnance. It has a very strong brand and its strategy of 
helping the consumer ﬁrst complements the Group’s strategy 
of ‘helping every household to make the most of their money’. 
During 2012 we continued to make signiﬁcant investments in 
our marketing strategy, including the strengthening of our 
digital marketing capability and the continuation of our ‘You’re 
So MoneySupermarket’ advertising campaign, both of which 
helped to drive visitor growth to the Group’s websites. We 
have continued the ‘You’re So MoneySupermarket’ theme in 
the early part of 2013 with the launch of our latest advertising 
campaign demonstrating how we continue to help our 
customers save money on their household bills.
more growth/more 
success/
Gerald Corbett  
Chairman
Dividend
Having reviewed the cash required by the business and the 
performance of the Group, the Company paid an interim 
dividend of 1.8p per ordinary share on 14 September 2012. 
This represented an increase of 20% on the interim dividend 
(excluding the special dividend) paid in 2011 and is consistent 
with the Company’s progressive dividend policy. 
During the year, the business continued to generate 
cash, and, despite the completion of the acquisition of 
MoneySavingExpert.com where the Group paid £35.0m in 
cash on completion, we ended the year with cash balances 
of £18.7m. With the business growing, the Board is 
recommending a ﬁnal dividend of 3.94p per ordinary share, 
representing an increase of 30% on the ﬁnal dividend in 2011.
This is consistent with the Company’s progressive dividend 
policy and is a statement of the Board’s conﬁdence in the 
Company’s earning progression in the year ahead. If 
approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting, this will bring the total dividend for the year to 5.74p 
per ordinary share and will be paid on 26 April 2013 to all 
shareholders on the register at 22 March 2013.
Outlook
The new year has begun positively and, whilst we remain 
alert to the continuing uncertainty in the wider economic 
environment, including the impact of the ‘Funding for Lending’ 
scheme on our Money business, we are conﬁdent that we will 
continue to grow in 2013. Our great brands, including 
MoneySavingExpert.com, strong market positions, experienced 
people and scale are the basis on which our business is built 
and will remain key strengths in the coming year.
Governance and the Board
Since the Group listed on the London Stock Exchange in 
2007, our Board and executive governance structures have 
continually developed and improved. We believe that good 
governance reduces risk and adds value to the business.
As such, the Board is committed to high standards of 
corporate governance and supports the principles laid  15 MoneySupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2012
Business Overview Business Review
“ 2012 has been another year 
of solid progress for the 
Group. We continued to 
invest heavily in our brand, 
our marketing, our site and 
our people. The strong 
 nancial results re ect 
this commitment and the 
consistency with which we 
have followed and executed 
our strategy. This will 
remain unchanged in 2013.”
down in The UK Corporate Governance Code published 
in June 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council (‘Code’).
 
The Corporate Governance Report together with the Audit 
Committee Report, Nomination Committee Report and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 52 describe 
how the principles of the Code are applied by the Group and 
reports on the Group’s compliance with the Code’s provisions.
During the last three years, since the appointment of Bruce 
Carnegie-Brown as an additional Non-Executive Director, 
the Board has remained stable and focused on growing the 
business. The Board has a good mix of experience, skills, 
structure and balance in order to support the Group’s 
growth aspirations.
As part of the Board’s development, Bruce has taken over the 
chair of our Remuneration Committee from Michael Wemms. 
Michael has done a good job for the last ﬁve years and we 
thank him for his contribution.
As with last year and in accordance with the Code, all of our 
Directors will retire at this year’s Annual General Meeting, 
and being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Employees 
Our results this year reﬂect the dedication and quality of our 
employees which continues to be a core strength of the 
Group. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Peter 
Plumb, his management team and all the employees for their 
achievements during the year. I would also like to welcome 
our new colleagues from MoneySavingExpert.com to the 
Group and look forward to supporting their growth during 
2013 and beyond. 
Annual General Meeting 
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00am on 
Wednesday 17 April 2013 at the Leverhulme Stand, Chester 
Racecourse, The Racecourse, Chester, CH1 2LY and I look 
forward to seeing you there.
Gerald Corbett  
Chairman
