 16 MoneySupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2012
Business Overview Business Review
2012 has been a good year for MoneySupermarket.com.
We saved British households £1 billion in 2012. That’s over 
£200 for each of the one in ﬁve British households who 
purchased a product through MoneySupermarket.com last 
year. We are proud of having achieved the goal we set 
ourselves back in 2009.
Much has happened since I joined the business in 2009. 
Reassuringly, our strategy hasn’t needed to change and our 
market continues to grow as more and more customers gain 
the conﬁdence to shop for insurance, ﬁnancial, travel and 
home services products online. I see no reason to expect 
this trend to change in the future.
Our business philosophy is the foundation of everything we do:
 Be the easiest way for our customers to shop for products 
 Be the best way for our providers to acquire new customers
It is against this that I look back and summarise our 
achievements during 2012.
At the heart of our business lies the curiosity of how to help 
more families save more money by shopping online to 
reduce their household bills and make the most of their 
money.
Marketing plays a major role in attracting more visitors to our 
site. But it is the site design, the expert content, the 
presentation of product options and features, and the ease 
of navigation that really makes the difference in helping 
customers ﬁnd the right product for them and then clicking 
through to purchase from the provider.
Therefore in 2012 we invested an additional £6m to 
accelerate our IT development programme as part of our 
‘Best Shop’ strategy. Credit cards was the ﬁrst channel to 
be launched on the new platform. This proved the platform’s 
capabilities and robustness. A key advantage is the new 
platform delivers each channel automatically as a mobile 
friendly service, no matter what device a customer is using. 
We can now retire old legacy infrastructure and simplify our 
more insight/ more  
opportunity/more innovation/
IT operation while improving the shopping experience for 
our customers.
Our technology investments have also supported our 
relationships with providers. Having consolidated our 
customer information into a single customer view and built 
a new analytics team around the data, we can now 
understand customer trends and behaviour in greater detail. 
This will ensure we can tailor our services to our customers 
in a more targeted manner and help our providers gain 
unique insights into our customers. This is an example of 
how we challenge ourselves to add value to the service we 
deliver to our providers.
To help more customers make the best and most informed 
decision possible about which products to purchase, we 
expanded our team of expert content writers, thereby 
increasing the quantity and quality of help and guidance on 
our site. We have also expanded our telephone support 
service hours and introduced live chat. This is all part of our 
strategy to make MoneySupermarket.com the easiest way 
for customers to understand, research and purchase what 
are often complex products.
Marketing is vital for telling people about our brand and that 
most households can save over £1,000 a year by spending a 
small amount of time switching their insurance, energy and 
banking services. This message was delivered by our 
successful ‘Vegas’ and ‘£1000 Man’ TV campaigns of 2012, 
extending our brand proposition beyond motor insurance.
We were still able to grow revenues by 13% while holding 
our TV brand advertising spend broadly ﬂat in 2012, thanks 
to the investment made in 2011 and 2012 in building a world 
class digital marketing team. Our digital experts have 
managed to make our paid search with Google work much 
harder in 2012 than in previous years, while retaining 
important leadership positions in Google’s organic search 
across our core channels. This demonstrates the expertise 
of our team given that Google continues to change and 
evolve its search algorithms at an ever increasing pace. 
Peter Plumb  
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Chief Executive’s Report 17 MoneySupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2012
Business Overview Business Review
“ We saved British households 
£1 billion in 2012. That’s 
over £200 for each of 
the one in ve British 
households who purchased 
a product through 
MoneySupermarket.com 
last year. We are proud 
of having achieved the 
goal we set ourselves 
back in 2009.”
Many companies outsource digital marketing, but we believe 
this is a core skill that is best kept inhouse to allow 
continued investment and development.
Our biggest investment for growth in the year was the 
acquisition of MoneySavingExpert.com in September. I am 
impressed by the tenacity of the MoneySavingExpert.com 
team, who, week after week, search for the best deals and 
ﬁll their site and weekly email with fantastic money saving 
tips. Over 7m people subscribe to the weekly email, which 
is the best endorsement of the team’s focus on ﬁghting the 
user’s corner. New services have already been launched by 
the team. For example, in response to the escalation of energy 
prices in the UK, MoneySavingExpert.com has launched its 
unique energy help tool: Cheap Energy Club. Users sign up to 
the club and in return will be offered the best energy rates 
available on the market, plus an ongoing personalised service 
that will track all tariff and price movements, regularly informing 
users of the best deals.
2012 has been a good year for the Group and most 
importantly, a good year for our customers, who between 
them have saved over £1 billion.
Looking forward to 2013, I see no reason to change our 
strategy. It has served us well for the last four years and, 
having performed our annual strategic review, I am 
conﬁdent it will serve us well for the next three years:
 Our shop must continue to lead the market as voted by 
customers
 Our providers must continue to rate 
MoneySupermarket.com as their preferred partner
 Our data insights will add value to our providers and 
support a personalised customer service
 Our brand must remain the most trusted by customers 
to save money on their household bills 18 MoneySupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2012
Business Overview Business Review
Chief Executive’s Report continued
The strength of MoneySupermarket.com as a business is 
the breadth of services we offer customers. As we have 
seen over the last four years, different years have different 
dynamics, but as a whole, the Group’s diversity is its great 
strength.
Motor insurance is our largest channel. Motor insurance 
policy premiums ﬂuctuated signiﬁcantly during 2012. There is 
no real structural solution on the horizon to curb increasing 
prices during 2013 and beyond. The Ofﬁce of Fair Trading 
(‘OFT’) studied the private motor insurance market in 2011 
and referred it to the Competition Commission for further 
investigation in September. It was encouraging to see that the 
outcome of the OFT study acknowledged the positive role 
price comparison services had brought to customers. 
However, one of the key drivers of price increases, that of 
escalating personal injury claims, has not yet been fully 
addressed but is being considered by the Ministry of Justice. 
There is no obvious simple solution.
Our Money business however is in for a more challenging 
2013. The Government’s ‘Funding for Lending’ scheme has 
had a negative impact on the country’s savers by reducing 
the competition for bank deposits. Easy access savings 
rates are at their lowest rate for ﬁve years at around 2% 
compared to rates greater than 3% a year ago. Most 
forecasters believe this scheme will continue well into 2013.
 
However, for borrowers, 2013 is shaping up to be a good 
year with credit cards and personal loans starting the year 
competitively. A 24 month 0% interest rate credit card is now 
available and personal loans are at their cheapest rates for 
over 10 years, at 5.1%.
Rising energy costs are not only becoming a big issue for 
British households, but they became a political issue in 
2012. Average energy prices rose by 17% during 2012. While 
the Government strives to meet challenging renewable 
energy generation targets by 2020, it is unlikely that these 
rising prices will slow. Government initiatives to reduce tariff 
complexity might go some way to help. However, most of 
the biggest savings to be made by our customers are by 
switching to online monthly direct debit tariffs and then by 
changing energy provider, with varied launch dates and 
durations of ﬁxed price tariffs making a difference. With door 
to door sales of energy now banned we see online energy 
switching as a major opportunity for customers to save 
money on their household bills.
My conﬁdence in looking ahead comes from the security of 
having a great team at the MoneySupermarket.com Group. 
Our recruitment this year has been extensive, from customer 
service staff to data analysts. We invest in the best people we 
can ﬁnd and give them the infrastructure investment and 
support to thrive and pioneer. I am delighted to welcome the 
165 new members of our team who joined last year, including 
two new executives: Kenny Jacobs, our Marketing Director, 
and Vic Darvey, our Director of New Business and Travel.
We have much more to do in 2013. However, we are on 
the right track, we have a great team and we have the 
right strategy.
My thanks to all our customers and providers for their 
support during 2012. As a group, we look forward to saving 
more people, more money in 2013.
Peter Plumb 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
