 14 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2008
Business Review
Chairman’s Statement
Our second year as a public company has been 
characterised by change both within and outside the Group. 
The credit crunch, or liquidity crisis in the banking 
system, spread and deepened during the year. We saw 
the failure of a number of banks, whilst others both in the 
UK and overseas required rescue packages from 
Governments and Central Banks. 
Against this economic backdrop and the deteriorating 
market conditions in the second half of the year, the 
Group recorded revenue growth of 10% to £178.8m for 
the year ending 31 December 2008 underpinned by 
strong visitor growth in the year of 32% to 120.1m 
visitors. These solid figures are in spite of a significant 
decline in revenue from the Money vertical in the second 
half of the year, due entirely to the credit crunch.
The diversity of our business has proved to be, and  
will continue to be, an important strength with the  
growth in the Insurance, Travel and Home Services 
verticals helping to offset declines experienced in  
the Money vertical. 
The worsening economic conditions and the turmoil in 
the credit and wider financial markets have resulted in  
the Group recording an impairment charge of £70.0m 
against goodwill in 2008. The Group is therefore reporting 
a statutory loss after tax of £59.1m for the year.
However, we remain strongly cash generative and ended 
2008 with a balance sheet containing no debt and a 
cash balance which increased during the year by £19.5m 
to £73.5m. Despite a 9% decline in adjusted EBITDA to 
£48.4m, this is a creditable set of results given the 
challenging market conditions experienced during  
the year.
In August 2008, we announced that we would implement 
an enhanced dividend policy paying approximately one 
half of adjusted net profits as dividends each year. In 
October 2008 we paid our maiden interim dividend of 
1.3p per ordinary share.
In line with this revised dividend policy, the Board 
recommends a final dividend of 2.2p per ordinary  
share, to be paid on 1 May 2009. If approved by 
shareholders, this will make a full year dividend of  
3.5p per ordinary share.
In last years’ statement I referred to the importance  
of improving our management process and upgrading 
the quality of our management team. The Group has 
grown rapidly in the last nine years, but is now of a size 
and complexity that requires a different management 
approach to that when the Group was in its 
entrepreneurial ‘super-growth’ phase. This is particularly 
so given the challenges of the credit crunch and the 
consumer recession.
In December, we announced that the Group’s founder, 
Simon Nixon, had decided to step down from his role  
as Chief Executive Officer on 25 February 2009. Simon 
became Executive Deputy Chairman on that date. In  
his new role, Simon will focus on strategic innovation  
and development.
It is a tribute to Simon’s vision and commitment that  
the Group has developed into the business it is today.  
On behalf of the Board and shareholders I would like to 
thank Simon for the immense contribution he has made 
to the development of the Group and look forward to 
working with him in his new role. 
In December we announced that Peter Plumb, who 
joined the Group earlier in the year, would join the  
Board as an Executive Director with effect from 
1 January 2009 and replace Simon as Chief Executive 
Officer on 25 February 2009. Peter is a tried and tested 
general manager in international, marketing-intensive 
businesses and brings with him a wide mix of skills and 
experience. He was previously UK managing director of 
dunnhumby Limited, the customer insights business and 
prior to that held senior positions with Disney, Dyson and 
PepsiCo. The Board is confident that Peter will steer the 
executive management team through the challenging 
market environment.
The Group has further strengthened the Board with  
the appointment of Graham Donoghue, the Managing 
Director of Travel, and David Osborne, the Marketing 
Director, as Executive Directors with effect from  
23 February 2009. Graham joined the Group in July 2008 
from TUI Travel plc where he was new media director and 
David joined the Group in February 2009 from easyJet 
where he was UK regional general manager.
These changes will help take the Group to the next  
stage of its development as we concentrate not only on 
growing the Group, but also running the business that we 
have better. Like many UK consumer facing companies, 
the immediate outlook is not good. We cannot assume 
that the effects of the credit crunch will suddenly lift  
and our business return to the levels of 2007. All of  
our verticals have begun the year down on the same 
period last year and are suffering from the effects of  
the recession. 
In the short term we must reconfigure ourselves for lower 
levels of demand. We are helped by the fact that most of 
our profit converts to cash, we have no debt and £73.5m 
of cash balances at the end of 2008. Our task is to 
improve what we have so we are well positioned when 
our markets eventually recover, which they will. 
In these challenging times, our results demonstrate the 
robust and diversified nature of our business. These 
results are to the credit of our employees and on behalf 
of the Board I would like to thank them for their hard work 
and commitment during the year. I would also like to 
thank my colleagues on the Board for their contributions 
during the course of the year. The Group remains well 
placed despite the current market conditions and this 
gives us all confidence for the future.
Gerald Corbett 15 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2008
Gerald Corbett
Full year dividend  
3.5p per ordinary share
