 10 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 201 1
Gerald Corbett 
Chairman
Next Page Previous Page View Contents
Chairman’s Statement
Results and strategic progress
The solid progress we have made since the credit crunch has 
continued. 2011 was a good year for the Group as adjusted 
revenue increased by 20% from £148.9m to £178.5m and 
adjusted EBITDA increased by 21% from £41.0m to £49.5m. 
Our largest verticals, Money and Insurance, delivered significant 
growth during the year with revenue in the Money vertical 
increasing by 19% from £44.0m to £52.6m and revenue in the 
Insurance vertical increasing by 21% from £84.5m to £102.7m.
Together with the significant growth achieved in our Home 
Services vertical, these results demonstrate the continuing 
strength and diversity of our business model and helped to offset 
the decline experienced in our Travel vertical, which continued to 
suffer in line with the rest of the travel market.
The 2011 results reflect effective execution of the Group’s strategy 
outlined in early 2010. Having realigned the cost base, the focus in 
2011 has been on growing the business.
We made significant further investment in our marketing strategy 
through our sponsorship of ‘Britain’s Got Talent’ and the launch of 
our new ‘You’re So MoneySupermarket’ TV advertising campaign, 
both of which helped to drive visitor growth to the Group’s 
websites. We have continued the ‘You’re So MoneySupermarket’ 
theme in 2012 with the launch of our latest TV advertising 
campaign demonstrating the number of ways we can help our 
customers save money on their household bills.
Dividend
Having reviewed the cash required by the business and the 
performance of the Group, the Company paid an interim  
dividend of 1.5p per ordinary share on 16 September 2011. This 
represented an increase of 15% on the interim dividend paid in 
2010 and is consistent with the Company’s progressive dividend 
policy. In addition, the Company paid a special dividend on the 
same date of 3.93p per ordinary share reflecting the Board’s 
confidence in the ability of the business to generate cash on an 
ongoing basis.
During the year, the business continued to generate cash, and we 
ended the year with cash balances of £35.0m. With the business 
growing, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.03p  
per ordinary share, representing an increase of 20% on the final 
dividend in 2010 and again consistent with the Company’s 
progressive dividend policy. If approved by shareholders at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this will bring the total 
dividend for the year to 8.46p per ordinary share and will be paid on 
27 April 2012 to all shareholders on the register at 30 March 2012.
Outlook
The new year has begun well and, whilst we remain alert to the 
continuing uncertainty in the wider economic environment, we are 
confident that we will continue to grow in 2012. Our great brands, 
strong market positions, experienced people and scale are the 
basis on which our business is built and will remain key strengths 
in the coming year.
Governance and the Board
Since the Group listed on the London Stock Exchange in 2007, 
our Board and executive governance structures have continually 
developed and improved. We believe that good governance 
reduces risk and adds value to the business. 11 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 201 1
Next Page Previous Page View Contents
The 2011 results reflect effective 
execution of the Group’s strategy outlined 
in early 2010. Having realigned the cost 
base, the focus in 2011 has been on 
growing the business
As such, the Board is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance and supports the principles laid down in The UK 
Corporate Governance Code published in June 2010 by the 
Financial Reporting Council (‘Code’). The Corporate Governance 
Report together with the Audit Committee Report, Nomination 
Committee Report and the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 29 to 42 describe how the principles of the Code are 
applied by the Group and reports on the Group’s compliance with 
the Code’s provisions.
Following the appointment to the Board in April 2010 of Bruce 
Carnegie-Brown as an additional Non-Executive Director, the 
Board has remained stable and focused on growing the business. 
I am confident that the Board has the right mix of experience, 
skills, structure and balance required for its next phase of growth.
As with last year and in accordance with the Code, all of our 
Directors will retire at this year’s Annual General Meeting, and 
being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Employees
Our results this year demonstrate the quality of our people which 
continues to be a core strength of the Group. On behalf of the 
Board, I would like to thank Peter Plumb, his management team 
and all the employees for their skill and hard work during the year 
and for the results they have achieved.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00am on 
Wednesday 18 April 2012 at Doubletree by Hilton Chester Hotel, 
Warrington Road, Hoole, Chester, CH2 3PD and I look forward to 
seeing you there.
Gerald Corbett
Chairman
