 10 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2010
Review of the year
In 2010 we made good progress against our strategic plan.  
We benefited from the tough cost cutting measures we took in 
the first half of 2009 and the investments made in both IT and 
marketing during the second half of 2009. As a result, the 
Group’s revenue increased in 2010 by 9% from £136.9m  
to £148.9m and adjusted EBITDA increased by 14% from  
£36.0m to £41.0m.
Excluding travel, we delivered robust revenue growth of 13% 
despite the challenging economic conditions during the year. 
Our motor insurance channel had a particularly strong year 
despite the competitive market place delivering revenue growth 
of 18%. 
Our customers experienced motor insurance policy inflation of 
more than 25% as motor insurers acted to recover increased 
costs of personal injury claims and reduced investment 
returns. This trend appears to be continuing into 2011. 
Our credit cards channel was the second strongest growth driver 
in 2010. As the year progressed a growing range of credit cards 
were made available to customers. 2011 starts with more credit 
card products available than in January 2010. Our home 
insurance and savings channels also had a good year with  
strong second half revenue growth after their relaunch.
Our travel business was not immune from the challenging 
economic conditions. Throughout 2010, as the travel market 
continued to decline, we managed the business for margin with 
the consequence that revenue declined by 14% compared to 
2009. During the year, we reviewed the travel market, worked 
with our customers to understand their online travel needs,  
and rebuilt our package holidays channel ready for its relaunch 
in January 2011.
Our marketing team continued to drive efficiency through our 
2010 campaigns, reducing our overall media investment from 
45% of Group revenue in 2009 to 43% of Group revenue in 2010 
whilst still delivering 9% revenue growth. 
Key strategic priorities
B e s t 	 P r o d u ct s
Building strong relationships with • 
providers to ensure our customers get 
great products tailored to their needs
Providing our customers with  • 
the widest range of products 
and the best deals
Ensuring our customers can not  • 
get a better deal anywhere else
Chief Executive’s Report
2 0 1 0 	 w as 	 a 	 g o o d 	 y e ar 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 G r o u p , 	 b o t h	 	
i n 	 t e r m s 	 o f 	 fi n an c i al 	 p e rf o r m an c e 	 an d 	 s t r a t e gi c	
d e v e l o p m e n t . 	 W e 	 ar e 	 i n 	 a 	 s t r o n g 	 p o s i t i o n	 	
t o 	 t ak e 	 ad v an t a ge 	 o f 	 an y 	 o p p o rt u n i t i e s 	 as 	 t h e y 	 ar i s e .
P e t e r 	 P l u m b	
Ch i e f 	 E x e cu t i v e 	 O f fi c e r Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance General Financial Statements
11 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2010
Business Overview Business Review
This was achieved through flat online media spend but 
increased offline investment focused on building our brand 
awareness through TV and radio advertising. Our ‘haggle hero’ 
campaign, featuring Omid Djalili resonated with the British 
public as he challenged us all to ‘save super amounts of money’ 
at moneysupermarket.com. 
As a sector, price comparison remained fiercely competitive, 
especially in the motor insurance market. However, we stuck  
to our strategy of only targeting visitors who we were confident 
would use our services and be profitable to both ourselves and 
our providers. 
Review of the Group’s strategic progress during 2010
In last year’s report, we outlined the Group’s strategy which  
is also outlined in my report. Although simple, it requires 
complete focus on building a long term brand and relationships 
with our customers and providers. The four elements of the 
Group’s strategy are to:
Build the best shop • 
Stock our shop with the best products • 
Use data to make life easier for our customers • 
Build an every day brand • 
This strategy has ensured that the Group has remained 
completely focused as one team on building a successful long 
term business. During 2010 we have made significant progress 
against our strategy as outlined below. 
Building the best shop
In the second half of 2009 and the first half of 2010 we increased 
our IT investment programme rebuilding our core channels. 
New credit cards, savings, home insurance, motor insurance 
and energy channels were launched during the year. 
Our approach has been to engage both providers and 
customers in the design process, ensuring product features  
and price can be fully explored by customers, and product 
benefits can be promoted by providers. Ultimately, customer 
feedback after launch is what counts, and on these rebuilt 
channels it has been extremely encouraging, with motor 
insurance, home insurance and credit cards all being voted 
market leading. 
Stocking our shop with the best products
Our business is based on the ‘success fee’ marketing model,  
in which the majority of our providers only pay a fee for 
customers who purchase their product. We constantly strive  
to offer the most cost effective route to market for our providers 
which requires a great understanding of their business models 
and needs.
Having invested in building a stronger, more experienced sales 
team, I am pleased to be able to report that our relationships 
with our key providers are strong. This helped to ensure that we 
received significant allocations of their marketing spend and 
were able to secure exclusive market leading deals for our 
customers across our business. The result was that during 
2010 we increased the number of paying providers on the 
Group’s websites.
Using data to make life easier for our customers
We only want our customers to have to enter their details once 
so that it becomes ever easier for them to make the most of 
their money and to find the best and most relevant products.
We spent 2010 increasing both our data analysis and customer 
relationship management (CRM) capabilities. The result of this 
work is that we now look after data for more than 10 million 
individuals and talk on a regular basis to many of them through 
our weekly MoreMoney communication and personalised 
marketing campaigns.  12 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2010
As an indication of the progress we have made, our revenue 
from our CRM campaigns increased by 74% in 2010 compared 
to 2009. We will continue to build out our CRM capability in 2011 
across our business. 
Building an every day brand
Our 2010 offline advertising campaign ‘a great deal easier’ 
featuring Omid Djalili as our ‘haggle hero’ proved to be very 
successful. Our increased offline investment communicated 
our breadth and depth of products on both TV and radio. 
Online, we continued to optimise our marketing spend. We 
exited or scaled back a number of portal partnership deals, 
which although delivering visitor numbers, were uneconomic 
due to the lower propensity such visitors had to actually use  
our services and purchase products. 
Our investment in paid search also continued to be optimised 
through our bid management systems resulting in a flat spend, 
whilst we experimented with Facebook advertising, particularly 
for financial products.
During 2010 we acquired Financial Services Net Limited (FSN). 
FSN owns and operates a number of highly relevant financial 
services websites which provide a platform for the Group to 
broaden its brand offering to a wider range of customer 
segments in the Money and Insurance verticals.
2011 strategy
I see no need for a change of strategy in 2011. Our focus on 
building the best shop and stocking it with the best products 
has served us well over the past 18 months, we have a strong 
energised team and a growing brand.
Our continued investment programme means that we enter 
2011 with rebuilt package holidays and stocks and shares ISA 
channels. We have also completed the roll out of our innovative 
‘smart channels search’ tool to all credit card categories, 
allowing customers to check their likelihood of acceptance 
before applying for a card – a great service to customers and  
providers alike.
Chief Executive’s Report continued
Key strategic priorities
B e s t 	 S h o p
Ensuring we deliver the best customer • 
experience through our websites
Ensuring we are open for business • 
whenever and wherever our customers 
want to visit us
Ensuring our customers have the tools • 
they need to compare products based 
on the features that are important  
to them
Data
Protecting data and keeping it safe • 
Enabling our customers to store their • 
details to improve their experience 
when they visit us again Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance General Financial Statements
13 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2010
Business Overview Business Review
2011 started with some entertaining new adverts with  
John Prescott promoting our motor insurance business, and 
Jedward relaunching travelsupermarket.com after two years 
off air. This year we are proud to be the new sponsors of ITV’s 
Britain’s Got Talent which gives us a unique and exciting 
opportunity to broaden our brand reach across the UK in a way 
that standard advertising can not. This is a key component of 
our brand strategy for this year.
We will continue to build stronger and deeper relationships with 
our providers ensuring we deliver a valuable and cost effective 
service to them. 
Summary
2010 was a good year for the Group, both in terms of financial 
performance and strategic development. 
Our strong market positions, the clear strategic focus of the 
Group, the cash generative nature of our business and our 
diversified business model all provide a solid platform for the 
Group to grow. We are in a strong position to take advantage of 
any opportunities as they arise. 
Peter Plumb
Chief Executive Officer
Key strategic priorities
B rand
Focusing on innovative and effective • 
methods of communication to build 
long term relationships with our 
customers
Striving to retain our customers year • 
after year through the provision of 
excellent customer service
Investing in effective and targeted • 
marketing, advertising and PR
Ensuring our customers visit us  • 
first when they need help with their 
household bills
