 07 Annual Report 2007 www.moneysupermarket.com Our Business
Chief Executive’s Report
‘I am pleased to present my ﬁrst Chief Executive’s Report for
what has been a very successful year for the Group. We have 
continued to grow the business substantially whilst investing 
signiﬁcantly for the future.’
I am pleased to present my ﬁrst Chief 
Executive’s Report for what has been a 
very successful year for the Group. We 
have continued to grow the business 
substantially whilst investing signiﬁcantly 
for the future. This has all taken place  
in a year when we ﬂoated the Group on  
the London Stock Exchange in the very 
challenging and volatile markets of July 
2007. The Group entered the FTSE 250 in 
September 2007. 
Group revenues grew by 55.9% in 2007 to 
£162.9m. Internet revenues increased by 
63.7% to £152.2m and adjusted EBITDA by 
57.2% to £52.9m. All areas of the internet 
business performed well whilst the 
intermediary business was broadly stable 
in 2007. 
Despite the well documented turbulence 
in credit markets in 2007, the Money 
vertical traded successfully throughout  
the year. Revenues grew by 48.7% and we 
believe this demonstrates the value that 
our business delivers to both consumers 
and providers. We believe providers 
reduced advertising spend on other  
media whilst maintaining their commercial 
relationships with the Group because it 
offers targeted and focused advertising 
spend and generates a greater return  
on investment than many other forms  
of media.
In the Insurance vertical, revenues grew by 
74.7% to £54.4m in 2007. We maintained a 
strong market position in a sector which 
continues to show rapid growth through 
greater consumer awareness and 
increasing use of online aggregators.  
We have the most complete insurance 
comparison engine in the UK offering the 
consumer the widest choice of providers. 
We have a very strong brand with 73%  
of online consumers recognising the 
Moneysupermarket.com brand. This gives 
the Group a strong competitive advantage 
and a powerful base from which to defend 
and grow its position as the UK’s leading 
price comparison website.
 
The Travel vertical increased its  
revenues by 100.9% to £15.0m.  
The Travelsupermarket.com brand is 
recognised in its own right and is the  
clear market leader in its ﬁeld. We have 
made the product more comprehensive, 
adding additional channels which enable 
the business to cater for more of our 
consumers’ requirements. Inventory  
has been increased allowing the  
consumer to compare more providers. This 
improves the consumer experience and 
engenders trust in the Group. Ultimately 
we believe these factors will make 
Travelsupermarket.com the preferred and 
most trusted travel website in the UK.
Home Services revenues have increased by 
280.2% to £4.5m. The focus this year has 
been on growing market share in a vertical 
where there were already established 
competitor businesses. We have been 
successful in the application of this 
strategy. We have leveraged our already 
substantial user base, the strength of  
our brand and our sales and marketing 
expertise to take market share from the 
incumbents. Home Services continues to 
show rapid growth, albeit from a small 
base, but also beneﬁts the business by 
widening the Group’s offering to the 
consumer. This gives the consumer even 
more reasons to return to our website.
We launched our business in Germany 
(www.icero.de) in October 2007, initially 
offering home and motor insurance 
partnering with a third party who provided 
the technology. We had some success in 
2007 but are working hard now to improve 
and focus our offering to the consumer in 
2008. We will not commit signiﬁcant 
investment to promoting the service until 
we are satisﬁed with progress in this area.
I believe the Group has achieved a  
great deal in 2007 and its success is  
largely down to the dedication of our 
employees. I would like to thank them  
for their continuing efforts. 08 www.moneysupermarket.com Annual Report 2007 Our Business
different ‘retailers’ at the click of a mouse. 
It is not good enough to be the best and 
most trusted in 70% of the things you  
do because ultimately the remaining  
30% of the business will suffer. Product  
is therefore key to our success. This is 
encapsulated through two of our key 
operating values:
To build services that we would feel 
proud to recommend to close family 
and friends.
To endeavour to offer our consumers 
the widest selection of products 
enabling them to compare and buy 
online in all of the major sectors  
of the market. Content is therefore 
paramount.
These values sit at the heart of all of the 
products and services we develop.
Product development introduces more 
relevant consumers to more relevant 
product providers and improves both 
consumer satisfaction and provider 
conversion. By constantly improving our 
service to both of these key stakeholders, 
the Group will continue to prosper and 
maintain its position as the UK’s leading 
price comparison website.
In 2007 we introduced a number of key 
developments in this area. For example:
We extended the question set within  
our motor insurance channel to enable 
consumers to obtain a more tailored 
quote for their particular circumstances. 
The response has been good and we 
have seen an increase in conversion  
rates recorded by providers. This has 
generated increased revenues per visitor 
in the motor insurance channel since the 
new question set was introduced. 
•
•
•
Strategic context 
As the UK’s leading price comparison 
website, the Group is very well placed to 
respond to a continuing structural shift in 
consumers’ and advertisers’ behaviour. 
Increasing broadband penetration in the 
UK has dramatically improved the online 
experience. It is ‘always on’ and gives 
much faster access than a dial-up 
connection. As a result, consumers are 
spending ever increasing amounts of time 
online. The consumption of internet media 
now accounts for more than one quarter of 
all media consumption in the UK. As 
consumers’ online time increases so their 
conﬁdence and familiarity with transacting 
over the internet improves. Advertisers  
are increasingly recognising this in their 
consumer acquisition strategies and are 
allocating ever increasing amounts of their 
advertising budgets from traditional ofﬂine 
media to the internet. We believe the 
Group provides the largest and most 
effective price comparison marketplace  
in the UK, matching relevant and ready- 
to-transact consumers with providers. 
Our strategy, which aims to capitalise  
on this structural shift, is built upon two 
primary objectives:
To continue to innovate with a constant 
focus on improving our existing 
products and improving the consumer/
provider experience.
To improve the volumes and mix of 
trafﬁc to the Group’s website by 
increasing brand awareness of 
Moneysupermarket.com.
Innovation and product development
It is imperative we maintain our leading 
edge in product development. The 
internet is unique in that it offers 
consumers the ability to move between 
•
•
Chief Executive’s Report continued
‘As the UK’s leading price comparison website, the Group is very well 
placed to respond to a continuing structural shift in consumers’ and 
advertisers’ behaviour.’ 09 Annual Report 2007 www.moneysupermarket.com Our Business
In July 2007 we introduced 
MyMoneysupermarket. This enables 
consumers to enter their details once 
within our safe and secure systems; 
these details can then be used to 
prepopulate application forms which 
can save the consumer time and effort 
at the time of renewal. It also, through 
the log in feature, enables us to get a 
better understanding of our consumers 
and tailor our products and services to 
their individual needs.
We have added more user and 
professional reviews and signiﬁcantly 
grown our forums feature. We now have 
more than 24,000 registered users and 
many times more viewers of our forums 
who interact with each other to discuss 
topics of interest and concern to them 
which increases consumers’ afﬁnity with 
the website.
We believe that these developments in 
particular contributed signiﬁcantly to 
increasing the revenue per visitor across 
our business during 2007.
Brand awareness
Marketing and PR drive new consumers to 
our website. We began ofﬂine initiatives a 
number of years ago with the supply of 
best buy tables to the personal ﬁnance 
sections of national newspapers. This 
continues and today we supply the best 
buy tables for seven newspapers including 
the Telegraph, Times and Independent. 
More recently, in 2006, we extended our 
ofﬂine initiatives into television and radio 
advertising which have stepped up 
considerably in 2007. The success of  
this is reﬂected in two key areas:
Our online brand recognition increased 
from 40% in July 2006 to 73% in 
November 2007 according to a YouGov 
survey commissioned for the Group.
•
•
•
Our gross margins increased from  
61.1% to 66.7% as the Group earned  
a greater proportion of its revenues 
from consumers who came directly  
to the website rather than from  
search engine marketing or portal 
partners where there is a direct  
cost of consumer acquisition. 
We need to retain our position in the  
front of consumers’ minds as a trusted 
consumer champion and to become their 
de facto choice when considering  
their ﬁnancial, insurance, travel and  
home services requirements.
Current trading and outlook
We have made a strong start to the current 
ﬁnancial year. The Money vertical has 
enjoyed double digit growth year to date, 
with broadly ﬂat performance in loans and 
mortgages in a declining market offset by 
very strong growth in credit card and 
savings products. The other verticals, 
Insurance, Travel and Home Services, have 
maintained the momentum experienced in 
the second half of 2007. In line with our 
business plan, we anticipate a step up in 
costs in the ﬁrst half of 2008 associated 
with our continued investment in the 
business and development of our German 
subsidiary. We remain very conﬁdent in our 
diverse business model and the beneﬁt it 
brings to consumers and providers. 
Given current trading and the ongoing 
investment programme, we are conﬁdent 
that we can have another successful year.
Simon Nixon
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
•
