 16 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2008
Business Review 
Chief Executive’s Report
In the year ended 31 December 2008, the Group has 
performed well despite the challenging trading conditions 
that have been driven by the tightening credit markets 
and downturn in the economy. Group revenue has 
increased year on year by 10% from £162.9m to  
£178.8m and the Insurance, Travel and Home Services 
verticals have all continued to grow helping to 
compensate for the decline seen in the Money vertical. 
Adjusted EBITDA declined in the year by 9% to £48.4m 
principally due to further investment in the Group’s online 
offering and the increased customer acquisition costs in 
the Insurance vertical. The Group remained strongly cash 
generative and ended 2008 with no debt and the cash 
balance increasing during the year by £19.5m to £73.5m. 
We believe this demonstrates the resilience of our 
diversified business model in these difficult economic 
times. 
Insurance is now the largest vertical in the Group, 
accounting for 43% of Group revenue. Revenue  
grew in the year by 38% to £77.7m (2007: £56.4m)  
albeit at a slowing rate as the year went on. This was 
driven both by improved commercial arrangements 
with providers and increased visitor numbers that were 
20% higher than in 2007. We maintained a strong market 
position in a sector which continued to show growth 
during the year despite the increasing level of competition 
from other online aggregators who spent significantly on 
television advertising and bid aggressively on search 
engines. We believe we still have the most complete 
insurance comparison engine in the UK offering our 
customers the widest choice of providers together with a 
very strong brand. 
During the course of 2008, and in particular in the second 
half of the year, the Money vertical felt the impact of the 
deepening global banking crisis. Revenue in the year 
declined by 10% to £68.3m (2007: £76.0m) as credit 
markets continued to tighten. With the UK consumer 
seeking to reduce debt and providers continuing to 
tighten their lending criteria, revenue declines were most 
notable in the loans and mortgages channels. Visitors to 
the Money vertical were however 27% higher in 2008 
than in 2007 demonstrating the value of the website to 
our customers, particularly in times of uncertainty.
The impact of the credit crunch and the worsening 
economic conditions were particularly felt in the secured 
loans market which contracted substantially. In July, 
Barclays took the decision to close its subsidiary First 
Plus to new business with effect from August. First Plus 
had provided the Group with an exclusive market leading 
product and represented approximately 10% of Group 
revenue at the time it closed to new business. Although 
the Group was able to replace some of the revenue lost 
following the withdrawal by Barclays, the continued 
tightening of the supply of available credit throughout the 
year meant that revenue from secured lending in the 
second half of the year was significantly lower than the 
first half.
Savings showed the strongest growth in the Money 
vertical with revenue increasing by approximately 80%  
in the year as customers sought to spread their cash 
balances across a number of accounts to take advantage 
of the protection afforded by the Financial Services 
Authority Compensation Scheme, and to find the best 
returns as interest rates fell.
The Travel vertical performed well with revenue increasing 
in the year by 27% to £19.1m (2007: £15.0m). Growth 
slowed over the second half of the year as customers 
sought to reduce discretionary expenditure. Revenue 
growth was driven by increased visitors to the vertical 
which were 32% higher in 2008 than in 2007. 
The Home Services vertical delivered a strong 
performance in 2008 with revenue increasing 63% in  
the year to £7.4m (2007: £4.5m). For a large part of the 
year, utility prices were increasing, prompting customers 
to shop around for the best available deal. The Home 
Services vertical is now well established and experienced 
visitor growth in the year of 97%.
In September 2008 the Group launched its own shopping 
channel. Whilst the Group has had a shopping channel 
on the website for some time, this was previously 
provided by a third party. This limited the Group’s ability 
to drive visitors to its website from search engines and 
therefore our ability to grow this channel. The Group now 
has its own product which gives an additional 75,000 
pages to be indexed by search engines, enabling results 
from our shopping channel to appear in the natural 
listings on search engines, increasing revenue.
Mortgage 2000, the Group’s offline business which 
specialises in supporting mortgage intermediaries 
continued to decline throughout the year reflecting  
the declining mortgage market. The Group is currently 
reviewing its options for this business.
The Group’s strategy in 2008
Despite the current challenging economic conditions,  
the Group remains well placed to respond to the 
continuing structural shift in consumers’ and providers’ 
behaviour as consumers spend increasing amounts of 
time online and their confidence in, and familiarity with, 
transacting over the internet increases.
We believe the Group provides the largest and most 
effective price comparison marketplace in the UK, 
matching providers with customers who, having 
compared the market, are ready to make a purchase,  
thereby improving the focus and efficiency of providers’ 
marketing spend. 17 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2008
Simon Nixon
Revenue
£178.8m (2007: £162.9m)
Increased by 10% 18 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2008
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Report continued
The Group’s strategy to capitalise on this structural shift 
has focused on three main areas in the last financial year:
Customer focus
The Group is committed to saving its customers time and 
money. This sits at the heart of the Group and its 
innovation and product development. Each new website 
development, new tool or new product that the Group 
launches is intended to save its customers time and 
money, support the customer in his or her purchasing 
decision or enhance the customer experience.
This constant focus on placing the customer first helps 
ensure that the Group remains at the front of customers’ 
minds and is central to how the Group is run.
Innovation and product development
The Group has continued to invest in innovation and 
product development in 2008 and will continue to do so. 
Customers see the benefits of this innovation in enhanced 
website functionality, improvements in existing products 
and the addition of new products and features. This focus 
on innovation and product development ensures that the 
customer experience is continually enhanced and the 
Group remains their first choice for price comparison in 
the UK. By enhancing the customer experience and 
providing support to customers in their purchasing 
decision, providers benefit from increased conversion 
rates and a more efficient marketing spend.
Examples of new products and services introduced in 
2008 include:
The launch of a ‘Policy Wizard’ tool in motor insurance •	
which enables customers to find the policy that exactly 
meets their needs and see prices update in real time. 
This significantly improves the usability of the motor 
insurance channel and will improve providers’ 
conversion rates.
The look and feel of the Travel website was refreshed •	
to make it more inspirational; to really excite customers 
about the prospect of travelling or holidaying and to 
make it more intuitive to use. This was initially released 
to customers as an alternative or ‘beta’ version and 
will be fully live during 2009.
The Group integrated hotel reviews from Trip Advisor •	
and added far more photos, videos and content into 
its Travel website.
The Group launched a new credit cards channel  •	
and enhanced the loans and savings channels,  
both of which now include expert, video and  
user reviews, all substantially improving the  
customer experience.
The Group extended the question set within its  •	
motor and home insurance channels to enable 
customers to obtain a more tailored quote for  
their personal circumstances.
In September 2008 the Group launched its own •	
shopping channel. This channel is already performing 
well and the Group is planning to further improve its 
functionality to make it a market leading proposition.
Brand awareness
Marketing and PR drive new customers to the Group’s 
website and ensure that the Group remains at the front of 
customers’ minds. The Group has continued to invest 
heavily in its brand as part of a highly focused marketing 
strategy. This has helped the Group to increase the 
number of visitors attracted to its website by 32% to 
120.1m (2007: 91.0m) and has helped to ensure the 
Group remains the UK’s leading price comparison 
website. The success of this strategy is reflected in  
the increased online brand recognition of 
moneysupermarket.com to 80% in September 2008  
from 73% in November 2007. 
The Group continues to supply best buy tables to the 
personal finance sections of a number of national 
newspapers including The Telegraph, The Times and  
The Independent and in 2008 spent £19.0m on television 
advertising (2007: £17.0m). With increased competition 
from other online aggregators, most notably in motor 
insurance, the Group’s brand remains one of its most 
important and valuable assets.
Simon Nixon 19 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2008 20 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2008
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Report continued
Before I outline the Group’s strategy in 2009, I would  
like to thank Simon for his help and support during my 
transition to Chief Executive Officer. I very much look 
forward to working with him in his new role, where he will 
continue to drive product development and innovation 
across the Group. 
The Group’s strategy in 2009
Simon’s Chief Executive Report described the Group’s 
strategy during 2008 and in particular the focus on 
customers, innovation and product development, and 
brand awareness. 
These cornerstones of the Group’s strategy in 2008, 
which have served the Group well in its development  
and growth to date, will continue to form a major part of 
the plans for 2009. However, the unprecedented global 
financial crisis and the subsequent UK recession means 
the Group faces a very different marketplace to that 
which it has encountered in the past. 
Our immediate task is to reconfigure our business for  
the lower levels of demand we are seeing due to the 
recession and to concentrate on managing our existing 
business better. 2009 will be a difficult year and we 
cannot assume 2010 will be any easier. More so now than 
ever, the Group must remain flexible and responsive to 
the changing market conditions and changing customer 
needs.
Accordingly, the Group’s priorities for 2009 will focus on 
the following areas, each of which interacts with the other 
as part of an overall strategy:
Marketing 
moneysupermarket.com and travelsupermarket.com are 
both market leading brands, with online brand recognition 
at their highest ever levels as a result of the major 
marketing and PR investment by the Group over the past 
three years. In 2009, the Group will continue to invest 
significantly in its brands and will focus on building more 
innovative and effective communication with its 
customers. Making the marketing investment and the 
Group’s brands work harder will be a major challenge  
for the business this year as we seek to optimise our 
marketing spend.
Innovation and product development
Continued innovation and product development remain 
key to the Group’s strategy in spite of the downturn. 
Customers are already benefiting from a more 
personalised search capability across the website, in the 
form of customer reviews, richer content and smart 
search tools and wizards. Such innovations not only save 
customers money but also time. 
The Group will continue to focus in 2009 on innovation 
and product development with the aim of saving 
customers more time and money. The Group will also 
invest in developing its existing systems, both to simplify 
the customer proposition and to make more of what the 
Group already has. 
The Group will further look at and test innovative new 
opportunities to utilise and leverage its core price 
comparison competencies in markets different to  
those in which the Group currently operates. 
Insight led
The Group will focus in 2009 on using its data better and 
developing tools and capabilities from which it can drive 
decision making. In a challenging market, it is essential 
that as an online business the Group uses every piece of 
information effectively.
As the Group becomes more analytical in its approach, 
the insight and knowledge it gathers about its business, 
customers and providers will enable the Group to 
optimise its decision making and to monitor its 
performance against its goals. This will ensure the  
Group is able to manage its business better in the  
short, medium and long term.
Customer focus
Saving customers time and money remains at the very 
heart of the Group’s philosophy and the Group will 
continue to focus on this during 2009 and beyond.  
The Group has started to build a single base of customer 
knowledge, and as a business, recognises the need to  
be much more inquisitive about customer behaviours and 
attitudes so that the Group can respond to them with 
better service and more tailored products. 
As the UK continues in recession and customers need  
to find more ways to save money, the Group’s focus on 
customers will be more important than ever.
Outlook in 2009
The short term outlook is not good. Revenue to date this 
year is significantly down on last year, entirely due to the 
recession. We will manage ourselves accordingly.
However, the Group has many important strengths, 
including a diversified business, market leading brands, 
high brand recognition with customers and a motivated 
workforce. I am confident that the successful execution of 
the Group’s strategy in 2009 will position the business for 
long term sustainable growth.
Peter Plumb 21 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2008
21 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 2008
Peter Plumb 
