 12 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 201 1
Next Page Previous Page View Contents
Chief Executive’s 
Report
Peter Plumb 
Chief Executive Officer
Review of the year
2011 has proved to be a strong year for the Group, with internet 
revenue back to our pre-credit crunch peak in 2008, a result of 
the implementation of the Group’s strategy and forensic marketing 
programmes over the past three years.
2011 was also a year of continued structural market growth. 
More and more customers turned to online aggregation as their 
preferred way to shop for financial products. There is no reason 
for this trend not to continue, driven by ease of use, whole of 
market view and of course a need to search out the best prices 
to save money during tough economic times. 
Despite slowing motor insurance inflation, historical low interest 
rates and a tight credit market, our core channels all delivered 
double digit revenue growth. Revenues in our travel business 
however, despite investment in both our website and marketing 
campaign, declined on the back of a third year of torrid market 
conditions for the travel industry.
After concern over significant motor insurance premium inflation 
during 2010/11, in September, the Office of Fair Trading decided to 
take a closer look at the motor insurance industry. It is 
encouraging to see that the outcome of the study acknowledged 
that price comparison sites have intensified price competition 
between motor insurance providers and brought about greater 
price transparency which has helped prevent premiums from 
increasing further.
Our providers benefited from, and our customers enjoyed, a step 
change in our marketing activity during 2011. As an industry, 
offline advertising increased by 25% during the year whilst each of 
the four key players continued to consolidate their positions in this 
growing market. 
Due to our strong online natural search positions and robust 
customer relationship management (‘CRM’) capabilities, we 
continued to spend the least amount of the four key industry 
players on offline advertising during 2011.
However our sponsorship of ‘Britain’s Got Talent’ coupled with our 
new differentiated ‘You’re So MoneySupermarket’ TV advertising 
campaign meant that once again we delivered the most efficient 
marketing campaign of the four key industry players in 2011.
Review of the Group’s strategic progress during 2011
Turning to our strategic plan described in last year’s Annual 
Report, I can confirm that it has worked well for us during 2011 as 
outlined below and will continue to be our road map for 2012 and 
beyond. Our strategy has ensured that the Group has remained 
completely focused as one team on building a successful 
long-term business. 
Best shop
Our mission is for MoneySupermarket.com to be the best way for 
people to shop for products. Much of our investment programme 
of 2011 was focused on improving our IT systems and our core 
channels. Good progress has been made with our motor 
insurance, home insurance and credit cards channels again being 
voted by customers as market leading at the end of the year.
Our systems upgrade programme enabled us to pioneer the 
availability of price comparison services on mobile and tablet 
devices. In September our motor insurance renewal service 
became mobile optimised, followed in October by the launch of a 
fully functional motor insurance iPhone App: existing customers 
can now renew their motor insurance with just three taps of an 
iPhone screen. With industry observers predicting that over 50% 
of all internet searches will be performed on mobile devices by 
2015 this is technology in which we will continue to invest. 13 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 201 1
Next Page Previous Page View Contents
Early in 2011 we formalised our working partnership with HD 
Decisions. Their data analytics capability powers our credit cards 
‘Smart Search’ service, allowing customers to select from a range 
of cards they are most likely to be accepted for based on their 
credit rating, rather than just seeing a list of market leading cards. 
This technology is in the process of being applied to unsecured 
loans, a channel that has experienced strong growth during 2011. 
MoneySupermarket.com will be the only player who offers 
customers the ability to search for personal loan deals they are 
likely to be offered based on their credit score.
Our IT investment programme will continue through 2012/13 in line 
with our strategic road map. The focus of this year’s investment 
will be on sharing common technology between all of our 
channels, making searching for different products a more 
seamless experience for customers.
Best product
To be the preferred way to shop for customers, we recognise that 
MoneySupermarket.com must have all of the brands and products 
a customer expects to see and wants. During 2011 we continued 
to build our relationships with product providers which enabled us 
to develop and secure tailored products specifically for our 
customers.
This in turn increased the range of products available through our 
website reinforcing MoneySupermarket.com’s position as the 
leading price comparison website. Most notably we were pleased 
to welcome both Tesco and Aviva (Quotemehappy) to our motor 
insurance channel, leaving Direct Line as the only major brand not 
available through our service.
Our customer research tells us that the biggest barriers to 
continued rapid adoption of price comparison services are that 
customers think it might be cheaper going direct and worry  
that only the highest commission products are pushed by price 
comparison players; something that is certainly not the case at 
MoneySupermarket.com. We have therefore launched our 
customer charter, which lays out clearly for our customers both 
what we as a business stand for and what we strive to be:
•	 We make it easy to find the brands you expect to see
•	 We strive to ensure a product cannot be found cheaper  
by going direct
•	 We let you remain in control of your personal data
•	 We are independent and impartial
•	 We make it easy to switch and save
•	 We strive to always show the most competitive product 
available
Data
As our business grows, so does the number of customers who 
open personal accounts with us to store their data, historical 
quotes and personalised product searches. We now manage  
data for more than 10 million individuals and talk on a regular 
basis to many of them through our weekly More Money email 
communication and personalised marketing campaigns. We 
continue to invest in making it ever easier for our customers to 
search for new products and services.
During 2011 we worked closely with a number of product 
providers to understand how we could get the best possible deals 
and product range available on the market, and in some cases 
deals that could not be found anywhere else. By working together 
with product providers we were able to design tailored and market 
leading products that could be made available to our customers 
through our website.
Our aim is to help the UK save £1bn on 
their household bills in 2012. This would 
be a major achievement for our business, 
but most importantly clarifies our 
business objective of being known  
by customers as a brand that can save 
them money on much more than just 
motor insurance 14 Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC
Annual Report 201 1
Next Page Previous Page View Contents
Brand
We started 2011 with Omid Djalili working with Jedward, David 
Soul and John Prescott in some of our most entertaining TV 
advertising ever as we concluded the ‘haggle hero’ campaign 
started in January 2010. The campaign had successfully grown 
our consumer awareness ratings and cemented our position as  
a major player in motor insurance price comparison.
However, as can be seen from our results, our ambitions are 
bigger than motor insurance. We therefore made the decision  
to launch a new TV advertising campaign from which we can  
build our brand beyond motor insurance. The ‘You’re So 
MoneySupermarket’ TV advertising campaign launched in July 
2011 with Geoff feeling so epic with his £200 saving that he surfed 
a blow up crocodile to the delight of a crowded Californian beach. 
This was followed by Dave who interrupted a quarrel between two 
gorillas and felt like the king of the jungle with his £200 saving. 
In 2012 the campaign has started to demonstrate its breadth with 
Brian saving his family over £1,000 by switching his credit card, 
home insurance, loan, energy and motor insurance. This new 
creative will help to further raise consumer awareness of the broad 
range of financial services products available through
MoneySupermarket.com. 
During the year we continued to optimise our marketing spend 
and investment in paid search through our bid management 
systems.
2012 strategy
The Bank of England estimates that 2012 is going to be an even 
tougher year for British households with the average family being 
around £1,000 worse off than in 2011.
Our aim is to do our bit and help the UK save £1bn on their 
household bills in 2012. This would be a major achievement for 
our business, but most importantly clarifies our business objective 
of being known by customers as a brand that can save them 
money on much more than just motor insurance.
Therefore, for the year ahead I see no reason to change our 
strategic road map, but as our ‘You’re So MoneySupermarket’ 
campaign demonstrates, we will step up our communications so 
that UK households know that they can save £1,000 on their 
household bills through MoneySupermarket.com.
Our IT investments will increase to support our best shop strategy. 
Our ambition is that customers will experience a more seamless 
journey when shopping on multiple channels, but it is likely to be 
our providers who will experience the biggest changes, with 
simpler product loading and maintenance capabilities.
Our team at MoneySupermarket.com are at the heart of driving 
growth in 2012 and beyond. Over the past three years we have 
invested significantly in building new skills across our business. 
The passion of our team continues to be a core strength of 
the business. 
We will continue to build stronger and deeper relationships  
with our providers sharing our knowledge to ensure we deliver  
a valuable and cost effective service to them. In return we  
expect to develop innovative and market leading products  
for our customers.
Outlook
We start 2012 with a backdrop of market changes for our core 
businesses.
Motor insurance premium growth has slowed but for 2012 and 
2013 the backdrop of increasing personal injury claims will 
continue to challenge the profitability of the industry.
In retail banking we see the launch of Virgin Bank who we expect 
to develop innovative products focused on challenging the industry 
and taking share from some of the more traditional players.
In energy, the government has been clear that it intends to 
challenge the costs now experienced by consumers for their gas 
and electricity.
During what is shaping up to be a really tough year for customers, 
we expect the opportunity for households to be able to save at 
least £1,000 to grow as competition for customers intensifies 
across our core channels.
For MoneySupermarket.com, our free to use service, our trusted 
brand and our talented team mean that we are well set to achieve 
our objective of saving UK households £1bn in 2012.
Peter Plumb
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive’s 
Report continued
