 Monitise plc Annual Report 2013 8 Review of the year / business review / Chief executive’s review
b usiness review
Chie F exe CUtive’ S Revie W
“ This was the year when Mobile Money 
became bigger than ever, practically 
for consumers, commercially for anyone 
doing business in this industry and 
strategically for us as a publicly listed 
and independent business.”
h ighlights
•	 Revenue rising 102% to £72.8m 
– the fourth year in which Group 
revenue has doubled.
•	 Live transactions at 3bn on an 
annualised basis, compared 
with 1.6bn a year ago; registered 
end-users at 24m, compared 
with 17m a year ago.
•	 Entering significant new 
partnerships and deepening 
existing relationships with, among 
others, Telefónica Digital and 
Visa Europe.
•	 Launching BBM Money, 
the Group’s first mass-market 
service in Indonesia.
aLastair Lukies
Chief executive o fficer
o verview
This was the year when Mobile Money became 
bigger than ever, practically for consumers, 
commercially for anyone doing business in 
this industry and strategically for us as a 
publicly listed and independent business. 
Monitise closed FY 2012, having recently 
completed the acquisition of Clairmail Inc., 
the US mobile banking specialist. Since then, 
during the 2013 financial year, the Group has 
successfully acquired and integrated two further 
businesses specialising in mobile commerce 
and payments, reinforcing Monitise’s position 
as a world-leading Mobile Money specialist.
t he future is mobile
Mobile is having a transformational impact on 
our lives personally, professionally and socially. 
The corporate and consumer appetite to be 
increasingly connected shows no sign of 
abating as the digital payments landscape 
gathers momentum faster than anyone 
previously anticipated. Mobile Money is a 
particularly exciting part of the mobile evolution. 
It is simplifying and speeding up the way we 
bank, pay and buy, opening infinitely more 
opportunities for people to manage their 
money around the clock at a time and place 
that suits them. Gartner notes that consumer 
spending on mobile technologies in 2012 
accounted for almost half of all technology 
spend, adding up to £511 billion, while IDC 
predicts there will be one billion mobile banking 
users by 2017.
Mobile offers a level of engagement and repeat 
usage that a branch, ATM, the web and many 
other channels simply can’t match. This is 
exciting for those in the business of mobile 
commerce – the browsing, buying and selling 
of products and services on mobiles. There’s 
a growing audience of captive and connected 
consumers to engage with. 
At Monitise, our role has always been anchored 
around our commercial strengths as an enabler, 
with the vision, legacy and capability to deliver 
global solutions for those wanting to deliver 
innovative and compelling bank-grade mobile 
banking, payments and commerce services 
to their customers. Our proven, flexible and 
secure platform technology has been created 
and refined for deployments ‘on premise’, hosted 
or via the cloud in some of the most heavily 
regulated financial services environments in the 
world. Via our platform technology, the Group 
simplifies the complexity of delivering secure 
Mobile Money services to embrace any device, 
payment network or operator. It is a secure, 
configurable bank-grade platform spanning 
banked and unbanked markets. Monitise 
connects to financial institutions’ core banking 
systems either directly, or via an ATM switch 
such as Vocalink in the UK or via a third-party 
processor company such as Visa DPS or FIS 
in the Americas. 
Following the Group’s capital raise in 
December 2012, Monitise’s platform technology 
was further expanded to incorporate mobile 
commerce features to help our clients retain 
customers, defend their position and generate 
new revenue streams. Amid this, Monitise 
is processing more than three billion transactions 
on an annualised basis, compared with 1.6 billion 
a year ago. With the ongoing growth in our 
partner network and broadening connections 
to new services, Monitise has 24 million 
registered end-users, compared with 17 million 
a year ago.
_2_MONI_ar13_Front.indd   8 9/18/2013   10:07:42 AM Annual Report 2013 Monitise plc 9
Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
Review of the year / business review / Chief executive’s review
uk and eur o Pe
The Group extended its 
partnerships and customer 
reach, including a further 
strengthening of the 
partnership with Visa Europe 
via a new three-year 
commercial agreement.
The strategic and commercial merits of our 
platform technology have been recognised 
by a broadening array of businesses keen to 
increase their own exposure to Mobile Money 
solutions. Amid long-standing relationships 
with Visa Inc. and Visa Europe, RBS and FIS, 
Monitise now works with more than 350 banks 
and financial institutions and an increasing 
array of partners positioning themselves to 
adopt new mobile banking, payments and 
commerce services. 
During the year, the Group also entered into 
a new five-year partnership as the preferred 
Mobile Money technology partner with Telefónica 
Digital to develop and manage new and existing 
mobile payment and commerce services for 
their customers. This marked our second major 
deal for our Buy Anything mobile commerce 
initiative following our three-year contract with 
Visa Europe announced in March 2013. 
The Telefónica partnership leverages our 
extensive experience in delivering bank-grade 
secure mobile applications, our proven and deep 
understanding of international payment schemes 
and strong mobile commerce capabilities. 
r Bs Grou P
Award-winning functionality
•	 Monitise’s innovative platform 
technology has given RBS the 
edge in mobile banking. The apps 
developed were the first of their 
kind from a high street bank in the 
UK and Monitise has continued 
this approach, working with RBS 
on the introduction of ‘Pay Your 
Contacts’ and ‘Get Cash’. The 
app including the new ‘Pay Your 
Contacts’ feature was downloaded 
by 1.7 million consumers in the 
two weeks following its launch.
•	 27 average customer mobile 
log ins a month.
•	 nearing 1 billon log ins since 
launch in May 2011.
_2_MONI_ar13_Front.indd   9 9/18/2013   10:07:43 AM Monitise plc Annual Report 2013 10 Review of the year / business review / Chief executive’s review
b usiness review
Chie F exe CUtive’ S Revie W Contin UeD
uk and europe
The Group extended its partnerships and 
customer reach, including a further strengthening 
of the partnership with Visa Europe via a new 
three-year commercial agreement spanning 
the development and deployment of new 
Mobile Money payments and commerce 
solutions for Europe’s leading financial 
institutions. Monitise has been working with 
Visa Europe since February 2011 to deploy 
mobile services to its more than 3,000 
member banks and financial institutions 
across 37 countries.
The Visa Personal Payments system Monitise 
helped develop now has 30 live and committed 
issuers across Europe, with RBS and NatWest 
the first banks in the UK to launch the service 
via their mobile banking app in March 2013.
RBS Technology Services and Monitise 
created new mobile banking innovations 
during the year. Apps were delivered for the 
Windows operating system and enhanced 
with an in-app sales functionality enabling 
users to sign up for and open a savings or 
cash ISA account from within the app itself. 
In December 2012, Monitise acquired control 
of Mobile Money Network, a joint venture with 
Best Buy Europe and Carphone Warehouse 
founder Charles Dunstone, and announced 
the acquisition of mobile payments acceptance 
business eMerit Solutions, both of which have 
been successfully integrated into the Group. 
These commercial initiatives reflect Monitise’s 
focus on building high-traffic platforms onto 
which the Group, via its partnerships, is 
increasingly layering mobile-payment and 
mobile-commerce functionality.
As well as the Telefónica Digital partnership, 
Monitise announced its first direct mPOS deal 
with Lloyds Bank Commercial Banking to 
develop a suite of mobile card acceptance 
solutions for micro-merchants, start-ups and 
small business owners. The new partnership 
came within weeks of Monitise launching the 
Group’s enhanced mPOS proposition. 
During the second half, we entered into a 
three-year partnership with Clydesdale Bank PLC 
to develop and deploy mobile banking services 
for Clydesdale and Yorkshire Bank customers. 
More details will be released in due course. 
Monitise has an exciting pipeline of direct sales 
and partner opportunities in Europe. The Group 
has been selected and is progressing discussions 
with two commercial banks in Continental Europe 
regarding the implementation of mPOS services 
and looks forward to updating the market in 
due course. 
americas
Monitise, which has been operating in North 
America since 2007, has a strong and growing 
presence in the market given its direct customer 
relationships and partnerships with both Visa Inc. 
and FIS, one of the world’s largest global providers 
dedicated to banking and payments technologies. 
The Group’s growing business in the Americas 
has more than 11 million registered direct 
end users.
The Group’s platform technology and Bank 
Anywhere, Pay Anyone and Buy Anything 
product sets provide US financial institutions’ 
customers with a full range of white-labelled 
enterprise-wide Mobile Money services, 
including account management services, 
bill payments, P2P, remote deposit capture 
and the ability to manage their debit, prepaid 
and healthcare cards. 
During the year, the Group continued to 
strengthen its partnerships and new commercial 
opportunities from its two Bay Area offices near 
the headquarters of Visa Inc. in Foster City, 
and in San Rafael.
With Visa Inc., Monitise worked on a number 
of initiatives to support its mobile strategies. 
These included:
 z functionality enhancements to the Visa DPS 
Mobile Card Management Services that 
launched last year. These have been 
designed to enable Visa’s bank partners 
to use Monitise’s mobile technology in 
a cost and time-effective way;
 z collaboration on Visa PayWave, Visa’s 
contactless payments application; and
 z supporting Visa’s product development 
of V.me by creating the mobile wallet for 
smartphones that extends V.me’s ecommerce 
acceptance to mobile devices.
The acquisition of the Clairmail mobile banking 
and payments business was completed on 
26 June 2012, just prior to the end of FY 2012. 
The business, which at the time was a large 
third-party provider of mobile banking solutions 
in the US, was acquired to further strengthen 
Monitise’s presence in North America and 
complement its existing routes to market and 
sales distribution channels via Visa Inc. and FIS. 
Monitise has rebranded the legacy Clairmail 
product line in the US via its platform capabilities 
and product sets. These have been designed 
to deliver on-premise Bank Anywhere capabilities 
in the mobile space and to enable Pay Anyone 
and Buy Anything services delivered through 
the cloud.
The benefits to financial institutions of launching 
new mobile banking services developed by 
the Group were underscored during the period 
by the rapid adoption rates seen for banks and 
credit unions. Desert Schools Federal Credit 
Union reached 30% mobile banking adoption 
in 90 days and found early adopters of its 
“ The benefits to financial institutions of launching 
new mobile banking services developed by the 
Group were underscored during the period by 
the rapid adoption rates seen for banks and 
credit unions.”
_2_MONI_ar13_Front.indd   10 9/18/2013   10:07:43 AM Annual Report 2013 Monitise plc 11
Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
Review of the year / business review / Chief executive’s review
WeBster Bank 
and  aMerican 
savin Gs Bank
Skyrocketing customer 
engagement 
•	 Webster chose Monitise to 
upgrade its mobile capabilities 
to include mobile banking and 
payments functionalities. The 
feature-rich mobile solution was 
launched in December 2012 and 
within three months Webster had 
experienced a four-fold growth 
in mobile enrolment.
•	 American Savings Bank adopted 
Monitise’s Bank Anywhere solution, 
including remote deposit capture, 
earlier in 2013. Customer adoption 
of the service has been phenomenal, 
with ASB’s two-year adoption 
goals surpassed within the first 
two and a half months.
•	 Webster customers are on average 
logging-in to their application 
28 times a month.
•	 40% increase in mobile 
deposits in March for American 
Savings Bank.
aMericas
Monitise has a strong 
and growing presence in the 
market given its direct customer 
relationships and partnerships 
with both Visa Inc. and FIS.
mobile banking solution were two times more 
profitable than traditional banking members. 
Via its relationship with Monitise, h awaii-based 
American Savings Bank became the first 
h awaiian bank to deploy mobile remote 
deposit capture.
Beyond the strategic partnerships with Visa Inc. 
and FIS, Monitise’s customers include leading 
US banks with partnerships spanning Fifth 
Third Bank, U.S. Bank, Sallie Mae, PNC Bank 
and Frost National Bank, among others.
Shortly before the year end, Monitise 
announced a new partnership with Blackhawk 
Network, a leading prepaid payments network, 
to make mobile gift card purchasing available to 
consumers through certain banks and financial 
institutions in and beyond the United States. 
The two companies are working to integrate 
Blackhawk’s extensive network into Monitise’s 
mobile banking ecosystem, making it easier 
for consumers to purchase Blackhawk gift 
cards from popular retail brands via mobile. 
Easier consumer access to Blackhawk’s 
network of content providers is expected to 
increase engagement with popular retailers 
and create new opportunities for customers 
to purchase directly from their participating 
financial institution’s mobile banking platform. 
When launched, Monitise and Blackhawk 
will generate a percentage-based fee for 
each gift card sold.
Monitise continues to see strong demand from 
US banks to leverage the banking, payments 
and commerce capabilities of the Group with 
a strong pipeline of further services planned 
for 2014. 
_2_MONI_ar13_Front.indd   11 9/18/2013   10:07:44 AM Monitise plc Annual Report 2013 12 Review of the year / business review / Chief executive’s review
india
Movida is now working with 
two of the top three banks in 
India that, combined, make up 
more than half of all credit card 
transactions in India and one third 
of all debit card transactions. 
b usiness review
Chie F exe CUtive’ S Revie W Contin UeD
india 
Monitise’s strategic focus in India, the second-
largest mobile market in the world with around 
900 million mobile subscriptions, is underpinned 
by the Group’s belief that the proliferation of mobile 
services creates a unique opportunity to provide 
financial services via mobile. 
The Group’s commercial interests in India are 
centred around Movida, a 50:50 joint venture 
between Monitise and Visa Inc. that works with 
financial institutions to provide mobile payments 
services to consumers across India. The business 
uses the underlying capabilities of Visa and 
Monitise to deliver a fast, reliable, secure and 
simple service using proven technologies 
and networks. 
With almost 350 million debit and credit cards 
outstanding in India, according to Datamonitor, 
card ownership is not holding back card 
transactions, but rather the lack of opportunity 
to use cards at POS or online. Movida is making 
it possible to pay with cards by connecting to 
utilities and ticketing agencies and using the 
customer’s registered card details to make 
the payment via mobile. 
Shortly after the year end, ICICI Bank, India’s 
largest private sector bank, entered an agreement 
with Movida to deploy the joint venture’s mobile 
payments service for its customer base. The 
service will enable ICICI Bank payment card 
holders to pay bills, recharge prepaid airtime and 
buy cinema tickets from any mobile phone and 
is designed to operate across all mobile networks 
using any Visa or non-Visa branded payment 
account. Movida has also been working with 
h DFC Bank, India’s second-largest private bank, 
since February 2012. h DFC customers have 
access to mobile payments services via Movida.
Movida is now working with two of the top three 
banks in India that, combined, make up more than 
half of all credit card transactions in India and one 
third of all debit card transactions. Negotiations 
continue with other Indian businesses interested 
in launching Mobile Money services via Movida.
BBM Money 
A pioneering approach
•	 Monitise has transformed the 
BlackBerry Messenger service 
in Indonesia from a social network 
into a payments network. Customers 
have the ability to make real-time 
payments to their BBM contacts, 
buy mobile airtime credit, transfer 
money to bank accounts, and now 
pay a wide range of bills as well as 
make cardless cash withdrawals 
via ATMs.
•	 60,000+ registrations on BBM 
Money within the first 90 days.
•	 First in the world to integrate 
Mobile Money with a social 
messaging platform.
_2_MONI_ar13_Front.indd   12 9/18/2013   10:07:45 AM Annual Report 2013 Monitise plc 13
Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
Review of the year / business review / Chief executive’s review
asia Pacific 
Monitise Asia Pacific is a joint venture between 
Monitise and First Eastern. First Eastern is a 
leading h ong Kong-based investment group, 
pioneering in the field of direct investments in 
China and across Asia Pacific. The joint venture 
works with strong local partners to extend the 
Group’s trusted and secure mobile banking, 
payment and commerce services in the region.
A highlight during the year was the launch of 
the world’s first mobile payments BBM Money 
service for BlackBerry Messenger, a rollout 
that began in February following regulatory 
approval from Bank Indonesia, the country’s 
central bank. BBM Money takes advantage of 
BlackBerry’s significant share of the smartphone 
installed base in Indonesia – and the use of 
BBM as a marketplace in Indonesia where 
‘BBM Groups’ are used to trade goods. 
BBM Money allows BlackBerry users in Indonesia 
to send and receive money seamlessly within a 
BlackBerry Messenger chat conversation as well 
as top-up any mobile phone prepaid airtime. 
Consumers can load their BBM Money account 
through any of the ATMs across Indonesia and 
return money to their bank accounts from within 
the BBM Money app. Within three months of 
launch, the service had attracted more than 
60,000 registered users. 
A second phase of the service went live post 
year-end in August, incorporating enhanced 
capabilities including a wide range of bill 
payments, cardless cash withdrawals via ATMs 
and access via WiFi. The bill payment feature 
will enable BBM Money users to easily and 
conveniently pay a wide range of bills including 
utilities, credit cards, post-paid mobile, internet 
and cable TV, which is particularly important 
in a market where utilities and businesses 
are moving more into prepaid services.
The new service was the result of collaboration 
between BlackBerry, Monitise Asia Pacific 
and Astra Group, the largest conglomerate 
in Indonesia, and PermataBank, one of the 
top 10 financial institutions in Indonesia. 
In h ong Kong, Monitise Asia Pacific is also 
working with local partners PCCW-h KT mobile 
and JETCO, the major ATM switch serving 
the majority of banks in h ong Kong, to launch 
new mobile payments services that have been 
developed during the year. Bank of China 
(h ong Kong) will be the lead partner bank. 
The initial service, which allows the mobile 
operator’s customers to top up their mobile 
airtime and data SIM cards, will go live once 
regulatory approval has been secured. It is 
based on Monitise’s proven technology platform 
and will also represent the Group’s first Chinese 
language mobile app.
Board appointments
As announced, Peter Ayliffe, who has led 
Visa Europe as President and Chief Executive 
for seven and a half years and has served 
as a Non-Executive Director on the Board 
of Monitise since November 2011, has been 
appointed Non-Executive Chairman of 
Monitise Group. Peter will commence his 
new role with Monitise on 1 October 2013, 
following his retirement from Visa Europe. 
h e succeeds Duncan McIntyre, who is 
stepping down on 1 October. Duncan will 
continue as a special advisor to the Group.
At Visa Europe, Peter is responsible for Visa’s 
European business in 37 countries, accounting 
for about 30% of the worldwide expenditure 
on Visa cards. Peter has overseen the creation 
of a European owned and controlled Visa 
business and under his leadership, the number 
of transactions processed by the world-class 
European system has grown from 4.2 billion 
to 14 billion per annum. 
Prior to Visa Europe, Peter spent more than 
30 years in retail banking. h e was a main Board 
Director at Lloyds TSB. During this time, Peter 
was a non-executive director on the Visa Europe 
board and a director on the Visa International 
board. Peter has been on the board of Investors 
In People (UK) and is currently president of 
the Chartered Management Institute and a 
non-executive director of the UK’s third-largest 
building society, the Coventry. 
In the view of the Board, Peter will provide expert 
and independent leadership for the Board.
As also announced, Victor Dahir joins 
the Board as Non-Executive Director with 
immediate effect, replacing Ellen Richey, 
as the Visa Inc. appointed Director, who 
has served for 11 months on the Monitise 
Board. Visa rotates its appointments to 
other companies’ boards from time to time. 
Victor has more than 40 years of finance and 
accounting experience. h e spent more than 
20 years with Visa, including roles at both Visa 
International and Visa U.S.A and was also chief 
financial officer of Inovant LLC, a subsidiary of 
Visa. Prior to joining Visa in 1984, he served as 
senior vice president and chief financial officer 
of Redwood Bank in San Francisco for six years. 
A director of MoneyGram International Inc. since 
May 2010, Victor is a licensed certified public 
accountant in California.
summary 
With a year of robust revenue growth, rising gross 
margin and closing with a strong balance sheet, 
our 2013 performance reinforces our leadership 
position as a proven and trusted technology and 
services enabler at the heart of the Mobile Money 
ecosystem. We are excited about our prospects 
to benefit from the acceleration in Mobile Money 
globally as more companies look to embed 
mobile into their corporate strategies. We are 
backed by a fully funded balance sheet as 
we move towards profitability with multiple 
opportunities in all geographies from both direct 
customers and our growing partner network.
alastair Lukies
Monitise Group Chief Executive Officer
“ With a year of robust revenue growth, rising gross 
margin and closing with a strong balance sheet, 
our 2013 performance reinforces our leadership 
position as a proven and trusted technology 
and services enabler at the heart of the Mobile 
Money ecosystem.”
_2_MONI_ar13_Front.indd   13 9/18/2013   10:07:45 AM
