 Monitise plc Annual Report 2013 Review of the year / Chairman’s statement 6
Ch Air MAn’s st Ate Ment 
duncan Mc intyre
Chairman
“ I am extremely proud 
of where the business 
is today as a Group: 
a global Mobile Money 
leader with services 
around the world.”
h ighlights
•	 Processed payments and transfers 
now worth more than $50bn on 
an annualised basis, 150% higher 
than the $20bn a year ago.
•	 Our Mobile Money Network 
joint venture buyout and eMerit 
mPOS acquisition enabled us to 
further evolve a portfolio of Mobile 
Money solutions relevant to the 
requirements of our customer 
and local market needs. 
•	 The Group has enhanced its 
Bank Anywhere, Pay Anyone 
and Buy Anything product sets.
•	 These results underscore the 
success of the Group’s strategic 
focus to create a significant and 
scalable growing ecosystem of 
partners and clients, leveraging 
Monitise’s bank-grade platform 
technology around the world. 
More information is available at
www.monitise.com
www
The strong results delivered again this year 
underscore the success of the Group’s 
strategic focus to create a significant and 
scalable growing ecosystem of partners 
and clients, leveraging Monitise’s bank-grade 
platform technology around the world. 
During FY 2013, which saw our revenue 
double for the fourth year in a row, we raised 
£117 million net of fees, ensuring that the 
Group maintains its strong balance sheet.
We continued to invest strategically in technology 
and infrastructure to scale our business and 
address mobile commerce opportunities as 
well as enhance the banking and payments 
service delivery capabilities on which our 
foundations are laid. Further to the acquisition 
of US mobile banking specialist Clairmail Inc. 
in 2012, the Mobile Money Network joint venture 
buyout and eMerit mPOS acquisition made 
during the 2013 financial year enabled us 
to further evolve a portfolio of Mobile Money 
solutions relevant to the requirements of 
our customer and local market needs. 
During the year, the Group enhanced its Bank 
Anywhere, Pay Anyone and Buy Anything product 
sets. Bank Anywhere products comprise SMS 
banking, card management, balance enquiries, 
messaging alerts, mobile image capture, ATM 
and branch locators, transaction histories, 
account transfers and more. 
Monitise’s Pay Anyone product capabilities 
feature mPOS, proximity payments, mobile 
phone top-up, peer-to-peer payments, travel 
money, charity donations, mobile stored value 
accounts and international remittances. Within 
weeks of the Group launching its enhanced 
mPOS proposition, Lloyds Bank Commercial 
Banking had entered a partnership with 
Monitise covering mobile card acceptance 
solutions for micro-merchants, start-ups and 
small business owners. 
During the year, we enhanced our Buy Anything 
product sets given the Group’s focus on creating 
new Mobile Money opportunities for businesses 
looking to capitalise on accelerating global 
demand for banking, payments and commerce 
capabilities. These services include mobile 
wallets, instant mobile checkout, bank specific 
loyalty and offers, bank cross-sell and up-sell 
and gift cards in the form of digital coupons 
and vouchers. 
One constant which we have held strong to 
since launching our business is interoperability 
– we are not setting out to create new payment 
rails but rather to leverage existing and trusted 
payment infrastructures, be they card or bank 
account based. At Monitise, we see payments 
as a means to an end that should not be 
something the consumer has to think about. 
h aving been with Monitise for nine amazing 
years, I am extremely proud of where the 
business is today as a Group: a global Mobile 
Money leader with services around the world. 
While delivering Mobile Money capabilities is 
not a simple task, we have always maintained 
an unwavering focus on making money totally 
mobile across the world through secure, 
robust and compelling solutions and services 
that give our clients the ability to meet the 
needs of consumers, both today and in 
the future.
It has been a tremendous honour to lead 
Monitise on its journey to becoming a leading 
global Mobile Money specialist. I am delighted 
to be able to hand over the chair in October 
2013 to Peter Ayliffe, a high-calibre executive 
with relevant and deep industry knowledge. 
Peter has been a highly valuable member of 
the Board and I am delighted that he has 
agreed to succeed me as Chairman and 
oversee the next stage in Monitise’s journey. 
_2_MONI_ar13_Front.indd   6 9/18/2013   10:07:38 AM Review of the year / Chairman’s statement Annual Report 2013 Monitise plc 7
Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
During the year we welcomed two new Executives 
to our Board. Monitise’s Chief Information Officer 
Mike Keyworth, who joined Monitise in early 
2004, joined the Board as Executive Director 
in October 2012. Brad Petzer joined as Group 
Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director 
in April 2013 following John Brougham’s 
retirement. Brad joined Monitise from Telecity 
Group plc, Europe’s industry-leading provider 
of premium carrier-neutral data centres, 
a FTSE 250 company, where he held the 
position of Group Financial Controller. 
Our Board also welcomes Victor Dahir. Victor 
brings considerable skills and experience and 
will be a huge asset to our organisation. I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank Ellen Richey 
for her invaluable contribution to the Board during 
her time as a Non-Executive Director.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
our shareholders for their support. I would also 
like to thank all our staff for their continued 
contribution and hard work over the past year.
annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) of the 
Company will be held on 17 October 2013 
at 10.00 am at 26 Southampton Buildings, 
h olborn Gate, London WC2A 1PB. 
Duncan Mcintyre
Monitise Group Chairman
_2_MONI_ar13_Front.indd   7 9/18/2013   10:07:40 AM
