 04 Monterrico Metals plc  Annual Report 2007
Since  the  Zijin  Consortium  formally  took  over  the  management  of  Monterrico  on    1  June  2007,  Monterrico  has  been  reorganised  and  restructured.  In  Peru  we  have  established  a  new  Board  of  Directors  for  our  wholly  owned  subsidiary  Rio  Blanco  Copper  SA,  (formerly  Minera  Majaz  SA),  which  operates  the  Rio  Blanco  Project.  We  have  retained  most  key  members  of  staff  within  this  subsidiary  and  have  developed  a  new  vision  and  operational  philosophy  which  has  now  been  adopted  throughout  the  Company.  In  so  doing,  I  believe  Monterrico  is  well  on  the  way  to  making  a  harmonious  transition  from  a  junior  exploration  company  into  a  large  mining  corporation  through  the  successful  development  of  Rio  Blanco.  In  keeping  with  this  transition,  we  are  developing  the  Company’s  corporate  governance  and  corporate  culture,  based  on  the  principles  of  corporate  responsibility  and  transparency.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  all  directors  and  staff  both  of  Monterrico  and  Rio  Blanco  Copper  SA    for  their  contribution  to  the  Company.
Review of the Rio Blanco Detailed 
Feasibility Study (DFS)
The  focus  of  our  technical  work  since  the  acquisition  has  been  to  review  the  Detailed  Feasibility  Study  (DFS)  for  the  Rio  Blanco  Project.  As  reported  previously,  the  DFS  considers  an  operation  treating  25Mt  of  ore  per  year  over  a  20  year  period.  This  study  was  submitted  in  late  2006  and  results  were  in  part  released  to  the  market  in  February  2007.  Over  the  past  months  this  study  has  been  reviewed  both  internally  by  the  new  management  and  in  conjunction  with  the  principal  consultants  involved  in  its  preparation.  From  this  review  we  have  concluded  that  aspects  of  the  DFS  have  a  number  of  deficiencies  and  that  the  current  design  does  not  represent  the  optimum  plan  for  the  long  term  development  of  this  resource.  One  of  the  main  reasons  is  that  the  DFS  considered  the  development  of  only  40%  of  the  defined  resource  of  1,257  Mt  and  our  concern  is  that  the  DFS  plan  may  constrain  development  of  the  full  resource  and  the  upside  potential  of  Rio  Blanco  in  the  future.  Secondly,  the  rising  cost  of  capital  items  over  the  past  year,  even  without  the  inclusion  of  the  preferred  pipeline  option,  makes  it  prudent  to  consider  a  wider  range  of  scales  of  operation,  in  order  to  optimise  the  economic  return  of  the  Project.  Thirdly  we  feel  that  certain  elements  of  the  Project,  notably  the  design  and  location  of  the  Tailings  Storage  Facility  (TSF),  require  further  evaluation  to  ensure  the  design  is  suitable  for  long  term  use  and  that  all  aspects  meet  international  environmental  standards.  As  a  result,  we  have  decided  to  commission  a  Trade-off  study,  to  evaluate  the  alternative  technical  options  for  the  development  of  Rio  Blanco.  The  objective  of  this  study  is  to  arrive  at  a  design    which  will  maximise  value  from  the  Total  Resource  (1,257Mt),  optimise  the  economics  of  the  Project,  whilst    improving  environmental  and  social  aspects.  The  study  will  seek  to  build  on  the  work  to  date  as  much  as  possible.  Additional  drilling  at  Rio  Blanco  will  also  be  conducted  to  increase  the  global  resource  and  define  the  upside  potential  for  planning  purposes.  We  firmly  believe  this  step  is  necessary  in  order  to  be  able  to  realise  the  full  potential  of  this  important  deposit.  It	 is	 now	 10	 months	 since	 I	 was	 appointed	 as	 CEO,	 and	 I	 am	 delighted	 to	 report	 on	 Monterrico’s	 operations	 since	 the	 last	 Annual	 Report.	 r eport from t He cH ief executive o fficer 05 Monterrico Metals plc  Annual Report 2007
Impact on Project Timeline 
The  decision  to  embark  on  a  Trade-off  study,  with  a  very  probable  change  in  Project  design,  will  have  a  significant  impact  on  the  Project  timetable.  It  is  anticipated  that  the  Trade-off  study  will  be  completed  in  the  second  half  of  2008,  when  a  revised  timetable  for  the  Project  will  be  announced.  However,  in  the  meantime,  this  is  broadly  the  time  line  we  expect:  Following  conclusion  of  the  Trade-off  study,  we  anticipate  it  will  take  approximately    12  months,  to  mid  to  late  2009,  to  take    the  new  engineering  designs  to  feasibility  level,  with  cost  estimates  of  +/-10%.    Whilst  this  work  is  being  undertaken,  the  environmental  and  social  baseline  work  will  be  updated  as  necessary  to  complete  the  ESIA  in  accordance  with  the  new  Project  design.  Assuming  that  we  have  all  necessary  community  permits  for  land  access,  this  would  allow  us  to  submit  the  ESIA  in  mid  to  late  2009,  with  approvals  following  after  six  months  and  then  to  commence  construction.
The  Social  situation  remains  the  key  factor  in  controlling  this  timetable  and  the  Company  is  working  hard  to  consolidate  relationships  with  local  communities  and  is  working  closely  with  central,  regional  and  local  governments.  Social issues and our Social 
Programme 
In  Peru,  like  the  rest  of  South  America,  community  issues  are  common  in  the  mining  industry,  as  they  are  in  much  of  the  world.  Virtually  all  mining  companies  face  some  community  problems.  Rio  Blanco  is  no  exception.
In  2007,  following  the  takeover  by  the  new  management,  we  have  strengthened  and  reorganised  the  Company’s  Social  Programme.  We  have  extended  the  network  of  Community  Relations  offices  in  the  area  of  influence  of  the  Rio  Blanco  Project,  enlarged  our  teams  of  Community  Relations  personnel  and  initiated  a  major  new  Communications  Programme  in  keeping  new  management’s  commitment  to  transparency.  Communications
The  Communications  Programme  is  designed  to  promote  understanding  of  the  Rio  Blanco  Project  and  dispel  fears  and  misrepresentation  promulgated  by  the  anti-mining  movement.  Under  this  Programme  we  have  opened  two  new  information  centres  devoted  to  the  Rio  Blanco  Project  and  mining  in  general.  These  are  the  first  of  their  kind  in  Peru.  In  the  first  two  months  of  operation,  the  first  centre  in  the  regional  capital  of  Piura  received  over  15,000  registered  visitors.  A  second  centre  has  been  opened  recently  and  plans  are  underway  to  open  more  centres  in  key  towns  throughout  northern  Peru.  We  have  also  expanded  the  circulation  of  our  information  newsletters,  and  are  making  extensive  use  of  radio  to  reach  the  more  remote  areas.  Our  Spanish  language  website  has  been  redesigned  to  provide  more  information  about  the  Project  and  our  Social  programme  in  particular.  Trust Funds for the communities
To  address  the  very  common  concern  that  local  communities  tend  not  to  benefit  sufficiently  from  mining,  we  announced  in  August  2007,  our  offer  to  establish  voluntary  Trust  Funds  totalling  US$80  million  for  the  two  communities  closest  to  the  Rio  Blanco  site.  These  Funds  are  to  be  used  by  them  for  community  development  projects  of  their  choice.  The  funds  will  be  accumulated  over  the  mine  life  and  will  be  in  addition  to  the  share  of  revenues  that  these  communities  will  receive  from  taxes  and  royalties  remitted  to  them  by  the  State,  once  Rio  Blanco  enters  production.  Strengthening relationships with 
communities
Whilst  the  Trade-off  study  and  additional  engineering  work  are  underway,  we  will  use  our  time  productively  on  the  Social  Programme.  Our  aims  are  to  strengthen  relationships  with  the  local  people,  communicate  details  of  the  updates  to    the  Project  plans  and  endorse  or  renew  land  access  agreements  with  the  relevant  neighbourhoods.  We  will  also  continue    to  prepare  the  local  people  for  the  development  of  the  Project  and  the  opportunities  that  it  will  offer  them  and  integrate  the  Project  into  relevant  regional  Development  plans.
Xiaodong  Huang  (CEO)  discussing  Rio  Blanco  Project  infrastructure  routes  with  colleagues  in  Peru.
A  vein  of  molybdenite  (molybdenum  sulphide)  seen  in  the  Chelo  adit  (tunnel)  at  Rio  Blanco.  Richard  Ralph  (Chairman)  in  the  Chelo  adit,  one  of  two  adits  at    Rio  Blanco. 06 Monterrico Metals plc  Annual Report 2007
r eport from t He cH ief executive o fficer
Visitors  at  the  Company’s  new  Information  Centre  in  the  city  of  Piura.  The  Centre  has  a  3D  model  of  the  Department  of  Piura  (shown  in  the  picture  on  the  left)  showing  planned  infrastructure  for  the  Rio  Blanco  Project.  The  Centre  also  has  various  interactive  displays.  Rio  Blanco  will  be  the  first  major  metal  mine  in  this  Department  of  Peru  and  will  provide  it  with  an  important  source  of  revenue.  Strategy going forward
Going  into  2008,  I  am  confident  that  the  Company  will  achieve  greater  social  support  for  the  development  of  Rio  Blanco.  Our  Objectives  and  Strategies  for  the  next  12  months  are:
Philosophy:  Continue  to  develop  Monterrico  into  an  international  mining  company,  seeking  to  achieve  harmonious  co-development  with  our  stakeholders,  all  the  while  maintaining  our  total  commitment  to  safeguarding  society  and  the  environment.  Technical: Revise  the  Project  design  to  make  best  use  of  the  potential  of  the  Rio  Blanco  resource;  maximise  economic  returns  and  improve  environmental  and  social  aspects  of  the  Project.  The  technical  team  will  concentrate  on  finalising  the  new  Trade-off  study,  and  depending  on  the  results,  will  extend  the  baseline  studies  for  the  ESIA  and  begin  taking  the  new  Project  design  through  to  detailed  feasibility  level.  Social: Work  to  obtain  social  licence.  We  will  focus  particularly  on  the  local  farming  communities  with  the  aim  of  obtaining  their  understanding  and  acceptance  for  the  development  of  Rio  Blanco.
Company growth:  Mineral  resources  are  the  future  of  any  mining  company,  and  Monterrico  will  continue  to  pursue  new  project  development  opportunities  and  exploration  in  Latin  America.
•
•
•
•
Conclusions
Rio  Blanco  is  a  magnificent  project.  The  delay  in  its  construction  is  to  maximise  the  value  of  this  important  resource  and  to  achieve  the  necessary  social  support  for  harmonious  long  term  operations.  I  am  confident  that  these  changes  will  strengthen  the  foundations  of  this  very  significant  Project  and  represent  a  better  opportunity  to  create  value  for  shareholders,  local  communities  and  Peru  as  a  whole.
Huang Xiaodong 
Chief Executive Officer
8  April  2008
