 03 Monterrico Metals plc  Annual Report 2007
Prime Objectives
The  three  prime  objectives  on  which  we  have  been  focusing  are  to:  build  up  the  Company,  transforming  it  from  junior  exploration  company  to  a  large  mining  company;  re-appraise  the  Company’s  assets  in  Peru,  particularly  the  massive  Rio  Blanco  copper/molybdenum  Project  secure  the  understanding  and  support  of  local  communities  around  the  Rio  Blanco  Project.
On  the  first,  I  am  glad  to  report  that  the  restructuring  has  made  great  strides.  A  new  and  well-balanced  Board  is  in  place;  an  experienced  new  management  team  has  taken  firm  control;  and  a  clear  vision,  ethos  and  set  of  objectives  have  been  developed.  The  Company  is  now  in  good  shape  to  go  forward.  On  the  second,  the  new  management,  with  the  benefit  of  its  previous  strong  experience  of  major  mining  projects,  has  been  reviewing  and  re-evaluating  the  technical  design  for  the  development  of  our  largest  single  asset,  the  Rio  Blanco  copper/molybdenum  Project.  As  we  announced  in  March,  a  new  Trade-off  study  is  being  commissioned  which  will  allow  the  most  favourable  option  to  be  taken  to  full  feasibility.  Inevitably  this  will  cause  some  delay  in  the  timeline,  but  the  end  result  should  be  a  major  increase  in  the  exploitable  resource,  and  therefore  a  significant  increase  in  value.  The  Company  will  naturally  do  everything  possible  to  bring  Rio  Blanco  on  stream  as  quickly  as  possible.  Mr  Xiaodong  Huang,  our  CEO,  discusses  this  in  more  detail  in  his  statement  which  follows.
On  the  third,  we  –  in  common  with  many  other  mining  companies  in  Peru  –  have  had  to  contend  with  opposition  from  anti-mining  campaigners.  This  has  caused  some  difficult  moments.  However,  lessons  have  been  learned.  We  are  now  in  a  position  to  devote  significantly  greater  effort  and  resource  to  our  social  programme  than  •
•
•
before  the  takeover  and  we  enjoy  the  strong  strategic  backing  of  the  Peruvian  government.  The  government  is  committed  to  free  market  policies  and  greatly  values  Peru’s  economic  and  political  relations  with  the  United  States,  EU  and  China.  It  is  pro-mining,  and  wants  to  see  the  Rio  Blanco  Project  developed  as  soon  as  possible.  The  result  of  all  these  factors  is  that  we  are  beginning  to  see  positive  results  on  the  ground.
Environmental and Social 
Responsibility
It  is  worth  reiterating  here  that  the  Company  and  our  Peruvian  subsidiary  are  very  firmly  committed  to  observing  the  highest  international  standards  of  environmental  and  social  responsibility.  We  particularly  want  to  play  our  part  in  alleviating  poverty  in  this  isolated  and  disadvantaged  part  of  Peru.  Developing the Company
Besides  pressing  forward  with  the  Rio  Blanco  Project  –  our  most  important  asset  –  the  Company  is  also  bent  on  expanding  through  the  development  of  other  projects  in  Latin  America  and  by  making  further  acquisitions.  This  is  an  area  on  which  shareholders  can  expect  to  hear  more  during  the  coming  year.
Financing
During  the  past  year  the  Company  has  been  able  to  rely  on  loans  from  its  major  shareholder  to  cover  our  operating  costs.  However,  other  options  are  under  consideration  to  finance  further  phases  of  the  Rio  Blanco  Project  and  the  expansion  of  the  Company.  Watch  this  space.
Conclusions
To  conclude,  although  the  past  year  has  been  largely  one  of  internal  reorganisation  and  re-evaluation  by  the  new  management,  resulting  in  a  limited  news  flow,  this  phase  is  nearly  complete,  and  the  Company  poised  to  move  purposefully  forward.  As  part  of  the  re-organisation,  it  has  been  decided  to  relocate  the  plc  head  office  to  Hong  Kong.  I  look  to  the  future  with  optimism.  I  believe  that  shareholders  can  do  likewise.  Richard Ralph
Chairman
8  April  2008
cH airman’s statement
Twelve	 months	 after	 the	 Zijin	 Consortium	 completed	 its	 acquisition	 of	 a	 majority	 shareholding	 in	 Monterrico	 Metals	 plc,	 I	 can	 report	 that	 this	 has	 been	 a	 period	 of	 intense,	 even	 if	 not	 very	 newsworthy,	 activity	 for	 the	 Company.	
