 Renew Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.renewholdings.com
06
Chief Executive’s review
Operational strategy
During 2010, we have continued to move 
the balance of the Group’s activities towards 
its Specialist Engineering business stream, 
where revenue increased by 11% and now 
accounts for 44% of Group revenue, compared 
to 36% in 2009. Margins remained within our 
target range at 3.3%. 
The Specialist Engineering markets in which 
the Group operates offer higher margins than 
Specialist Building and engage our skilled 
workforce in industries which are mainly 
governed by regulation. Consequently, our 
Specialist Engineering activities have greater 
security of funding and more predictable 
work streams. 
It remains the Group’s strategy to expand 
Specialist Engineering activities both organically 
and by acquisition and we continue to look 
for suitable, complementary acquisitions. 
The focus of our acquisition strategy is to 
identify businesses with specialist skills 
operating in stable markets in regulated 
industries such as environmental, energy 
and transport. We are highly selective in our 
evaluation of acquisitions and look for business 
drivers which are not dependent on large 
capital programmes but have sustainable 
qualities incorporating non-discretionary 
and maintenance spend characteristics. 
In Specialist Building, the Group targets markets 
appropriate to our skills and experience with 
contract selectivity part of a rigorous risk 
management approach. This business 
stream has been impacted by the economic 
recession over the last two years and during 
2010 revenue reduced by 19%. Operating 
margins stabilised at 1.1% and the forward 
order book is strong with 75% of orders in 
projects with funding from private sources. 
Comprehensive spending review
Although it may be several months before 
the detail of the Comprehensive Spending 
Review 	 is	finalised, 	 we	expect	 its	impact 	
on the activities of the Group to be limited. 
In our Specialist Engineering business, 
the	 Nuclear	 budget 	 has	been	 reconfirmed. 	
In Rail, where we operate primarily in the 
Greater London area, the Government 
remains committed to the maintenance and 
development of the rail and underground 
networks. Our Water and Land Remediation 
activities are not affected. 
In our Specialist Building business, the 
Government has retained its ambition to 
construct 150,000 new build social housing 
units per annum. The lifting of the rent cap 
is 	 expected 	 to 	 liberate 	 the 	 financial	 constraints	
under which several of the Housing Associations 
operate and we expect that the demand for 
new build social housing in the South East, 
which is the only geographic area in which 
we carry out this activity, will continue. 
Our order book in this business is also 
particularly strong. 
The other markets which we target in 
Specialist Building are largely privately 
financed other than some school 
programmes within Science and Education. 
Our exposure to the public sector in this area 
is already limited and we do not foresee a 
material impact on our operations.
Specialist Engineering
Nuclear
Shepley Engineers continues to be active at 
five 	nuclear 	facilities 	 and	remains 	the	largest	
mechanical and electrical contractor at 
Sellafield. 	Shepley 	 operates 	 in 	the 	fields 	of	
both asset support and decommissioning, 
concentrating on high hazard programmes 
carrying regulated mandates and therefore 
sustainable funding. 
During the year, work continued on the 
Multi Discipline Site Wide framework. 
Two new frameworks for decommissioning 
and	bundling 	spares	at 	 Sellafield 	were	also	
awarded. The integrated supply model offered 
by the Group is becoming increasingly 
“The Specialist Engineering markets in 
which the Group operates offer higher 
margins than Specialist Building and 
engage our skilled workforce in industries 
which are mainly governed by regulation. 
Consequently, our Specialist Engineering 
activities have greater security of funding 
and more predictable work streams.” 
Brian May Chief Executive
_01_RNWH_ar10_front_(DS).indd   6 21/12/2010   08:44:01 Renew Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
07
www.renewholdings.com
year	Seymour 	was	awarded	 a	fifth 	 clean 	
water	framework	and	 is	 in	the	final 	stages	 of	
the process to be reappointed to the AMP5 
framework. Flood alleviation and combined 
sewer	overflows 	continue	to	 feature	strongly	
with £14m of orders received in the year from 
NWL. In addition the Group has framework 
agreements with Scottish Water and Severn 
Trent. The Group has seen a 6% increase on 
forward orders in the Water sector.
Land remediation
Remediation continues to provide opportunities 
and during the year the £6m project to 
remediate the site of the Commonwealth 
Games Athletes Village in Glasgow, one of 
the largest remediation projects in Scotland, 
was completed. The £15m Cudworth Bypass 
contract, 	 the 	 fifth 	 contract	for 	Barnsley	MB C, 	
was also completed ahead of programme 
and under budget.
During the year the framework with National 
Grid was extended. This offers the opportunity 
for	growth 	ahead	 of	the	ending	 of	Landfill 	T ax	
Exemptions in March 2012. Recent awards 
include the Partington Hub and Cluster 
project for the remediation of four former 
gasworks sites. We are also preferred bidder 
on the St Helier Gasworks project in Jersey, 
due to commence in December.
important, demonstrated by an order for 
flask 	maintenance	platforms	which	 involves	
Shepley Engineers, West Cumberland 
Engineering, Mothersill Engineering and 
PPS Electrical.
The Group has been successful in securing 
a key supply position on a number of large 
programmes 	 at 	 Sellafield	 including 	 the	
Evaporator D, Encapsulated Product Store, 
B30 and Separation Area Ventilation projects 
with total orders received during the year of 
£30m. Each of these projects involves the 
provision of an integrated service response.
The order book in Nuclear is some 71% higher 
than one year ago providing strong visibility 
for 2011 in this high quality earnings stream.
Water
The Group has extensive experience in water 
infrastructure development and maintenance, 
flood 	 alleviation,	 sea	 defences, 	 mechanical	
and electrical installations, steel fabrications, 
pumping and sewerage systems for a range 
of industries. 
Seymour’s largest client is Northumbrian Water 
(“NWL ”), the eighth largest water company 
measured by investment spend, for which it 
carries out work on four frameworks. In the 
Quality of earnings
Chief Executive’s review
07
08
09
10
£252m
£202m
£304m
£219m
Forward order book: 
£304m
 Actual 
Orders in specialist sectors:
87%
08
09
10
83%
87%
80%
07
79%
_01_RNWH_ar10_front_(DS).indd   7 21/12/2010   08:44:01 Renew Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.renewholdings.com
08
Chief Executive’s review continued
our reputation for quality, delivery, innovation 
and value engineering and we are at the 
forefront of developments on environmental, 
sustainability and energy saving issues. 
Allenbuild has a position on eight frameworks 
with Housing Associations, which provide 
access to an annual £500m market. During 
the year £94m of orders were received, securing 
100% of planned revenue for 2011 and 2012. 
These include a £14m project for Metropolitan 
Housing at Hertford Road, a £21m project at 
Windmill Park for Notting Hill Home Ownership 
and the £14m Pitsea London development 
for the Genesis Housing Group. 
Restoration and refurbishment 
(High quality residential)
The Group’s activity in restoration and 
refurbishment has transitioned over the last 
two years to concentrate almost exclusively 
on the high quality residential market in 
London. Walter Lilly remains a preferred 
contractor for consultants in this sector 
which is primarily funded by wealthy private 
individuals and long established London 
freehold estates. The outlook in this market 
remains strong with 75% of revenues for 2011 
secured and £150m of further opportunities 
identified. 	Our 	particular	 skills	 in	 providing	
Specialist Engineering continued
Rail
The Group continues to expand its customer 
base delivering rail infrastructure projects in 
the year for Network Rail, London Underground, 
CTRL and Southern Railways. Good progress 
was made on station modernisation schemes 
at Marble Arch and Notting Hill Gate, which 
have a combined value of over £30m. YJLi 
has recently been awarded a contract to 
undertake ground penetrating radar surveys 
for Network Rail at Reading Station. This is 
one 	of 	 the	 first 	 packages	to	 be 	 let	on	the	
major redevelopment of this station.
Our principal market in Rail is within London 
and the Home Counties where there are over 
700 stations and 30 depots. Security of 
funding for rail projects is more certain in this 
area following the Comprehensive Spending 
Review and subsequent announcements 
from the Mayor of London, which underpin 
our optimism that the rail market will continue 
to offer opportunities.
Specialist Building
Social housing
As one of the leading new build social housing 
contractors in the South East, we have 
continued to receive awards recognising 
innovative solutions to the temporary works 
challenges in extending properties underground, 
a major requirement for most high quality 
residential projects in London, provides a 
differentiator and ensures our early involvement.
Awards included further works at Grosvenor 
Crescent and a major project in Mayfair. 
Work is progressing well on both these 
contracts and their combined value has 
increased since initial award to in excess 
of £100m. Walter Lilly is also preferred bidder 
on a further £34m project in Belgravia for a 
private client.
Science and education
Our major award this year was the £45m 
Kirklees College Waterfront Campus. 
This contract, which includes substantial 
engineering works, is making good progress 
and is due for completion in July 2012. 
W e	secured	 our	 first 	project 	 via 	the 	Y ORbuild 	
Construction framework, with the award of 
the Sixth Form Centre at Ridgewood School, 
Scawsby for Doncaster Council. Further 
work was carried out for GlaxoSmithKline 
continuing our 18 year relationship. The long 
association with Defra continued with the 
Virology Containment Facility being 
completed in the year.
_01_RNWH_ar10_front_(DS).indd   8 21/12/2010   08:44:04 Renew Holdings plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
09
www.renewholdings.com
Chief executive’s review.
Retail
Work in the retail sector has increased with 
projects secured for Tesco at Risca, South 
Wales, Portland, Dorset and at Sandwell in 
the West Midlands. In the North West work 
is underway on a new Neighbourhood Centre 
at Kensington, Liverpool and in the North East 
an award was received for the refurbishment 
of the Market Street Arcade in Leeds.
People
Keeping our employees and those who work 
with us safe remains the Group’s priority and 
I am pleased that 2010 has seen us further 
reduce our Accident Incidence Rate by 26%, 
which represents a 74% reduction over the 
last four years. 
The economic environment remains tough, 
so the achievements of the Group during 
these challenging times are a testament to 
the skills, resilience, hard work and commitment 
of every employee for which the Board would 
like to express its sincere thanks.
Summary
Challenging economic conditions endure 
in 	the	industry	 with	 a	number 	 of	high 	 profile 	
businesses	having	 recently 	 suffered 	 financial 	
difficulties. 	Throughout 	 the 	 recession,	 the 	
Forward work
The Specialist Engineering 
markets in which the Group 
operates offer higher margins than 
Specialist Building and engage our 
skilled workforce in industries which 
are mainly governed by regulation.
In Specialist Building the Group 
targets markets appropriate to our 
skills and experience with contract 
selectivity part of a rigorous risk 
management approach. 
 Social housing – 40% 
 High quality residential – 28% 
 Science & education – 16% 
 Retail – 4% 
 Other – 12%
 Nuclear – 54% 
 Water – 21% 
 Remediation – 11% 
 Rail – 8% 
 Civils – 6%
Specialist Engineering Specialist Building
Chief Executive’s review
Board has sought to act swiftly to reduce 
the Group’s cost base when necessary 
and we are continually alert to any changes 
in market dynamics which can affect our 
operating	 efficiency . 	
Renew	enters	the	new	financial 	 year 	with 	
a strong, contracted order book of £304m. 
The Group remains appropriately sized 
for 	today’s	 market	and	 it	is	 both	profitable 	
and cash generative. Our strategy is sound 
and	I	 am	 confident 	that	 the 	Group 	has	 a 	
robust platform from which to grow in 
2011 and beyond.
Brian May
Chief Executive
23 November 2010
Order book:
£304m
(2009: £202m)
Specialist Engineering 
revenue increased:
11%
_01_RNWH_ar10_front_(DS).indd   9 21/12/2010   08:44:05
