 03 CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE’S
REVIEW
Annual Report & Accounts 2007
DJob Number90319_RenewHoldings  -R&A -   Page 5
OVERVIEW 
Another year of strong performance has
been delivered across all of our business,
with profit before tax up 55%. This profit
growth has been matched by cash, which
remains a primary objective, and we have
achieved our target of delivering a 2%
Group profit before tax a year earlier than
anticipated. The Group strategy which
has been progressively implemented 
over the last two years is now firmly
established, both operationally and
culturally, and its benefits are reflected in
these very positive results. 
All of our specialist market sectors
continue to demonstrate robust
fundamentals. During the year we grew
our Specialist Engineering activities
organically by over 20%, whilst expanding
into new markets through the acquisition
of Seymour, a specialist contractor in the
water sector. This was achieved whilst
maintaining target margins and, following
the acquisition, Specialist Engineering is
now expected to account for more than
20% of Group turnover. 
In Specialist Building we maintained
turnover at a similar level to last year
while increasing operating profits by
42%, with margins up to 1.4% from
1.0%. This is an excellent achievement
and demonstrates the significant
improvement in risk management as 
we progress towards our target of 2%
operating margins in Specialist Building
within the next two years. 
Group operating margins increased by
40% during the year and, as a result, 
we have set a new objective for the
Group of achieving an operating profit
margin of at least 2.5% by 2010. 
The Group order book has grown by
more than 21% during the period and the
order intake since the end of the financial
year has been very strong. The secured
forward order book at 30 September
2007 stood at £252m, compared to
£209m a year ago. Our selective
approach to winning new contracts has
meant the proportion of new orders that
fall within our specialist areas of activity
has increased to nearly 80%. The level of
contracts secured from repeat customers
has also increased to 72%. Our level of
negotiated, framework and two stage
tendered work reached 68%. This gives
us greater earnings visibility and further
reduces risk, both of which remain key
objectives going forward.
SPECIALIST ENGINEERING
I am delighted that the quality of our
Specialist Engineering work is being
recognised both by our customers and
third parties. VHE was awarded the
Specialists in Construction Award from 
Construction News and was runner up 
in Brownfield Briefing’s Remediation
Innovation Awards. It was also awarded
the RoSPA Gold Medal in May in
recognition of five consecutive years of
Gold Awards. Shepley Engineers was
awarded a second consecutive RoSPA
President’s Award for an outstanding
performance in Health & Safety at work
over an eleven year period. Seymour won
two CECA training awards and was
runner up for the North East CECA
Project of the Year.
In Nuclear, the largest spend within the
national civil nuclear legacy programme is
at Sellafield in Cumbria, where Shepley
Engineers has worked continuously for
more than 25 years. Shepley Engineers is
the largest mechanical and electrical
contractor at Sellafield with a workforce
in excess of 400 people. Overall activity is
well balanced between operational asset
support and the decommissioning and
demolition of redundant facilities. During
the year Shepley Engineers was awarded
four long-term frameworks at Sellafield,
the most important being the major 
Multi Disciplinary Site Wide Framework,
where the company is one of three 
Tier 2 contractors alongside Amec and 
Hertel. This framework is worth in 
excess of £25m over the next two years
and includes an option for a further two
year extension.
In Land Remediation, VHE was
reappointed as a term contractor by
National Grid Property Limited to
continue remediation works on sites
across the UK. This three year framework
contract is worth £10m per annum and
has an option to extend it for a further
two years. Major contracts with other
clients include the remediation of former
coal-fired power stations in Rugeley in
Staffordshire and Stella South near
Gateshead. Both entailed substantial land
reclamation to create clean development
platforms for future housing development.
In Water, the Group acquired Seymour, a
leading civil engineering business in the
North East of England, in July 2007.
Seymour carries out water infrastructure
development and maintenance, flood
alleviation and coastal protection and
urban renewal works to the public and
private sectors. Seymour has a long-
standing relationship with Northumbrian
Water and has recently had its framework
agreement extended until 2011. Recent
contracts also include a £6m coastal
protection scheme completed over two
phases at Seaton Carew, and a £1m
contract to install a new raw water 
main at Teesside Power Station. The
integration of Seymour is progressing 
well and we are confident of growing the
business as part of the enlarged Group.
Building 
£265m
 
Engineering 
£69m 
 
Building 
£3.7m 
Engineering 
£3.4m 
TURNOVER 
PROFIT 
90319_RenewHoldings-R&A Text  7/12/07  19:21  Page 5 04 CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE’S
REVIEW
DJob Number90319_RenewHoldings  -R&A -   Page 6
SPECIALIST BUILDING
Our Specialist Building businesses have
experienced a strong increase in repeat
business as well as a number of 
industry commendations including 
RIBA, RICS and BREEAM awards for
architectural design, innovation and
environmental construction. 
In Social Housing, Allenbuild now has 
six framework agreements with major
housing associations in the South East.
We have recently been awarded a £15m
contract by Metropolitan Housing
Association to build 106 new apartments
and retail space in Hackney. We have a
pipeline of projects with Logic Homes in
excess of £60m and more than £40m
with other framework partners. Allenbuild
is actively incorporating Modern Methods
of Construction into its social housing
workload and is committed to achieving
zero defects on all projects. 
In Retail, Britannia Construction 
secured a number of new clients and
developments, including its appointment
as a framework contractor to Marks &
Spencer, and continued to strengthen its
relationships with existing customers 
such as Tesco. A £6.6m redevelopment
of Fareham Town Shopping Centre for
Dominion Corporate Trustees was started
in the summer for a new 32,000 sq ft
extension to the existing shopping mall.
Allenbuild also completed the £6m North
Walk Development at the Crystal Peaks
Shopping Centre in Sheffield for Hermes,
and secured repeat business with
Dransfield Properties for the £5.6m
Jasper Square development in Tunstall.
This sector is experiencing a very strong
level of enquiries.
In Restoration and Refurbishment, a
notable scheme undertaken by the Group
was the £13m restoration of the historic
iron fabric at St Pancras Station, London.
We continue to see strong demand from
the high quality residential sector in
London with a number of prestigious 
high quality projects underway. We 
also commenced a new framework 
with Grosvenor, which involves the
refurbishment of several properties in
Mayfair and Belgravia. The £8m
refurbishment of Walmsley House into
170 student units for Investream was
completed, the second project for this
client, illustrating the high level of 
repeat business we conduct in this
specialist sector.
In Science and Education, Walter Lilly
enjoyed a successful year with projects
for University College, London and the
Burlington Danes laboratory fit out as part
of the Imperial College framework, as well
as securing the £20.5m Queen Mary
Innovation Centre construction project for
the Queen Mary University, London. Work
also continued for long-standing client
GlaxoSmithKline’s research and
development arm with two laboratory
refurbishment projects. Allenbuild
commenced the construction of the
£17m Rossington All Saints Secondary
School and Sports Village for the Diocese
of Sheffield. It has also completed the
main phase of the British Library’s £13m
Additional Storage Programme, the
world’s first large-scale automated
document retrieval complex to use
oxygen depletion technology as a fire
resistance strategy. 
PROPERTY AND OTHER ACTIVITIES
The on time and on budget completion of
a major development project for Wichford
PLC valued at £15.3m demonstrated how
the Group’s various capabilities in
development, land remediation and
construction could be brought together
successfully and profitably. We continue
to look for other suitable development
opportunities and have recently started
construction of a specialist manufacturing 
building in Cumbria for an American
client. We also continue to realise surplus
land both in the UK and USA and I am
confident of further land realisations in
2007/08.
PEOPLE
We continue to attach great importance
to Health & Safety practices across 
the Group. I am delighted to report that
during the year we have decreased the
Accident Incidence Rate by 41% which,
given our annual target of a 10%
reduction, is a major achievement. 
The improvement in the Group’s
performance is a testament to the hard
work and dedication of all of our
employees, for which the Board is
extremely grateful.
STRATEGIC UPDATE
The benefits of our strategic focus and
improved management practices are
becoming increasingly evident. Our
specialist activities are also well
positioned in serving robust market
sectors with good potential for growth.
This provides an excellent platform for
the future and we will continue to 
expand our presence in our existing 
areas of activity both organically and, 
in Specialist Engineering, via further
strategic acquisitions. The Group’s strong
financial position and cash generation
provides excellent flexibility for funding
any future acquisitions.
Our goal is, within the next three years,
for the Group’s Specialist Engineering
activities to increase to at least a third of
Group turnover. We are targeting Group
turnover of at least £500m by 2010,
however we will not lose sight of our
primary objective of delivering increased
cash backed profits from progressive
operating margin improvement, with the
target of a Group operating profit margin
of 2.5% by the same date.
Brian May
Chief Executive
27 November 2007
90319_RenewHoldings-R&A Text  7/12/07  19:21  Page 6
