 04
chief executive’s review
Brian May
Chief Executive
“ The Group continues to 
make progress in realising 
its objective of shifting 
the balance of its revenues 
progressively into 
Specialist Engineering”
Overview
Our strategy of expanding Specialist 
Engineering activities whilst concentrating 
on secure margin delivery in Specialist 
Building is well established.
In Specialist Engineering, revenue 
has increased by 14% and now 
accounts for 36% of Group revenue 
with margins remaining within our 
target  range at 3.5%. Our Specialist 
Engineering markets are resilient and 
have strong regulatory drivers. This is 
evidenced by the encouraging 67% 
increase in forward work to £82m 
(2008: £49m), of which 97% is in 
the form of repeat business.
In Specialist Building, as anticipated, 
revenues reduced by 29% (27% being 
in retail and non specialist sectors). 
Despite this, Specialist Building remained 
profitable with a 1.2% return prior to 
exceptional items. The decisive action 
taken to reduce capacity has resulted 
in a Specialist Building business which is 
now appropriately sized, with a competitive 
cost base, to meet the market conditions 
anticipated over the coming years.
We have continued to look for 
complementary acquisitions to develop 
our Specialist Engineering business. 
Whilst acquisitions that meet our 
demanding criteria have been difficult 
to identify, we were delighted to announce 
two acquisitions during the year. In 
October 2008, Seymour’s capability in 
the water industry was further enhanced 
with the acquisition of C.&A. Pumps Ltd. 
C&A is based in County Durham 
and operates nationally providing 
_1_RNWH_ar09_front.indd   4 15/12/2009   09:21:03 renew holdings plc annual report & accounts 2009 05
chief executive’s review
mechanical and electrical design, 
installation and maintenance services.
In May we acquired Mothersill 
Engineering a specialist machining 
and fabrication business, which 
enhances our offering to the nuclear 
industry. Mothersill has worked with our 
nuclear business, Shepley, for many 
years and provides support to nuclear 
new build projects, decommissioning 
and production operations. 
Review of operations
Specialist Engineering
Nuclear
Shepley Engineers continues to be 
active in five nuclear facilities, Sellafield, 
Drigg, Springfields, Capenhurst and 
Chapelcross. At Sellafield, where Shepley 
has worked for 54 years, the company 
remains the largest mechanical and 
electrical contractor on site. Shepley 
operates in the fields of both asset 
support and decommissioning, 
underpinned by four frameworks with 
Sellafield Ltd, all of which have been 
extended during the year. The Multi 
Discipline Site Wide framework 
continues to provide significant volume. 
The spend by the Nuclear 
Decommissioning Authority is 
planned to be £8.4bn over the next 
three years with 59% allocated to the 
facilities in which Shepley is active. 
This is providing additional opportunities 
outside the frameworks and during the 
year Shepley has received initial orders 
on the £80m Separation Area Ventilation 
project and the £200m B30 project, 
the most hazardous industrial complex 
in Western Europe. Further work on 
these projects is anticipated.
In addition Shepley was recently 
awarded the £4.3m project to reclad 
Unit 560, direct for Sellafield Ltd. It is 
also part of the major group, which 
includes Jacobs and Doosan Babcock, 
bidding for the High Active Liquid 
Effluent Facility, the largest single 
contract to be let by Sellafield, with 
a value in excess of £500m.
Water
Seymour, acquired by the Group in 
2007, specialises in water infrastructure 
development, flood alleviation and sea 
defences. Seymour’s revenues have 
increased by 50% since acquisition.
Seymour’s largest client is Northumbrian 
Water for whom it carries out work on 
four frameworks. Flood alleviation and 
combined sewer overflows continue to 
feature strongly with £15m of orders 
received in the year. Northumbrian 
Water is the 8th largest water company 
measured by investment spend and the 
frameworks are due for renewal in 2011. 
Seymour has commenced work to 
maximise its future position on the 
AMP5 frameworks.
During the year C&A has been awarded 
an M&E framework by Scottish Water, 
the first for this client. Similarly Allenbuild 
has recently been appointed to our first 
framework with Severn Trent, which is 
expected to provide £20m of projects 
per annum for its framework partners.
Ofwat recently published its draft 
proposals for a £21bn investment 
programme over the next five years. 
This is an increase over the last five 
year period with a greater spend 
anticipated on flood alleviation.
Land Remediation
The repositioning of the VHE business 
last year into regional civil engineering, 
due to the reduced remediation market, 
has proved effective. This is demonstrated 
by the award of the £15m Cudworth 
Bypass contract which is the fifth 
contract for Barnsley MBC.
Remediation continues to provide 
opportunities for VHE and during the 
year we were awarded a £5.8m project 
to remediate the site of the Commonwealth 
Games Athletes Village in Glasgow, 
one of the largest remediation projects 
in Scotland. In addition, VHE has been 
appointed preferred bidder to develop 
a remediation strategy on a redundant 
gasworks in Jersey. Work also continues 
to be awarded under our National 
Grid framework with discussions 
ongoing to secure a two year extension.
VHE is the UK’s leading specialist 
contractor undertaking remediation 
works under Part IIA of the Environmental 
Protection Act 1990 and recently has 
secured two further awards, including 
a £1.5m scheme in Cardiff. This act 
sets out the regulatory framework 
for Local Authorities to deal with the 
estimated 200,000 hectares of land 
contaminated during previous use.
VHE continues to improve its 
remediation skills and is investigating 
different remediation technologies to 
respond to environmental and energy 
saving concerns. VHE is developing 
an expertise in solidification and 
stabilisation with a European partner. 
VHE remains well placed to provide its 
specialist skills as opportunities arise.
_1_RNWH_ar09_front.indd   5 15/12/2009   09:21:07 06
Rail
Our rail business, YJL Infrastructure, 
has seen substantial growth in the year 
and has now widened its customer 
base, working for eight client bodies 
over the last two years.
The principal market is within London 
and the Home Counties where there 
are approximately 700 stations and 
30 depots. £40bn has been committed 
to Transport for London to upgrade 
London’s transport system over the 
next ten years, with Network Rail also 
having a £35bn development plan 
running to 2014. YJL Infrastructure, 
as an accredited rail contractor, 
is active in both these sectors.
In October 2008, YJL Infrastructure 
was appointed to the Vendor Capital 
Programme framework with London 
Underground which will provide ongoing 
opportunities over the next four years. 
During the last year major awards have 
been the modernisation of Marble Arch 
and Notting Hill Gate stations, valued 
at £15m each, station fit outs for South 
Eastern on CTRL and two projects for 
Network Rail at Waterloo, including the 
complex and time sensitive Peak Hour 
Subway. An award has also been received 
for an intrusive survey project for Crossrail.
Specialist Building
Social Housing
Allenbuild has now established itself 
as one of the leading new build social 
housing contractors in the South East 
having doubled revenues over the last 
three years. It continues to receive 
awards recognising its reputation for 
quality, delivery, innovation and value 
engineering and is at the forefront 
of developments on environmental, 
sustainability and energy saving issues.
The social housing market has well 
established spending plans. Allenbuild 
has a position on ten frameworks, 
an increase of two in the year. These 
underpin the business providing access 
to an annual £650m market. Allenbuild 
has relationships with six of the top twelve 
housing associations as listed in the 
recent Homes & Communities Agency 
grant allocation awards.
66% of projected revenues in this 
sector are secured for the coming 
year with the balance identified and 
in final negotiation. In addition, there 
is over £100m of future opportunities 
in discussion.
Restoration and Refurbishment
This specialist sector has remained 
strong, particularly for Walter Lilly, 
which remains a preferred contractor 
for consultants in high quality residential 
refurbishment. Walter Lilly has particular 
skills in providing innovative solutions 
to the temporary works challenges 
in extending properties underground, 
which is a major requirement for most 
residential projects in London. This skill 
has been demonstrated in the successful 
completion of the 11m deep basement 
to form a stacking car park at their 
£36m project in Grosvenor Crescent.
During the year, good progress was 
made on the extensive refurbishment of 
a large Grade II listed private residence 
in Regents Park and Walter Lilly was 
also awarded the £35m contract to 
chief executive’s review continued
_1_RNWH_ar09_front.indd   6 15/12/2009   09:21:07 renew holdings plc annual report & accounts 2009 07
carry out restoration and refurbishment 
works to a prestigious Grade II listed 
property in Park Lane.
Walter Lilly was proud to be awarded the 
project to construct the 7th July memorial 
in Hyde Park. The memorial, which was 
officially opened by HRH Prince of Wales, 
contains 52 stelae, one for each of those 
who lost their lives in the Central London 
bombings in July 2005.
The Group has worked on a variety of 
projects at the Palace of Westminster 
for over twelve years and was delighted 
to be awarded the first phase of the cast 
iron roof restoration, valued at £7m. 
Science and Education
Substantial Government funding 
remains committed to improving 
the country’s science and education 
facilities. We continue to secure projects 
both individually and through our eight 
national frameworks in this sector. 
We have continued our long association 
with Defra with a further £7m award and 
have recently been awarded our 63rd 
project in a 17 year relationship with 
GlaxoSmithKline. In addition we have 
received a further award on our Imperial 
College framework.
Following confirmation of Learning 
and Skills Council funding for the 
Kirklees College Waterfront Campus, 
we are now finalising contractual 
arrangements on this £46m project 
and have commenced works on site 
under an enabling contract.
People
Keeping our employees and those 
who work with us operating safely is 
of paramount importance to the Group. 
I am pleased that 2009 has seen us 
again beat our yearly safety target with 
a reduction of 17% in the Accident 
Incidence Rate over the year, which is 
a 64% reduction over the last four years. 
The achievements of the Group, during 
these challenging times, are a testament 
to the skills, hard work and commitment 
of all our employees for which the Board 
is very grateful.
Summary
The Group continues to make progress 
in realising its objective of shifting the 
balance of its revenues progressively 
into Specialist Engineering.
In Specialist Engineering we are 
active in markets that are substantially 
underpinned by regulatory spending, 
whilst in Specialist Building we are 
focusing our capacity on more resilient 
specialist sectors.
The Group is now appropriately 
structured to meet the challenges 
of the years ahead. The Board has 
set a target for 2012 of developing a 
Specialist Engineering and Construction 
Services Group with an operating profit 
margin of over 2% and with Specialist 
Engineering providing at least 50% 
of revenue.
Brian May
Chief Executive
24 November 2009
chief executive’s review
_1_RNWH_ar09_front.indd   7 15/12/2009   09:21:09
