 03 chief executive’s review
chief executive’s review
Overview
Our strategy of seeking growth in Specialist
Engineering, whilst maintaining target
margins, combined with growing margins in
Specialist Building continues. 
In Specialist Engineering, revenue increased
by 36%, which included a full year’s
contribution from Seymour which we
acquired in July 2007. Whilst margins were
lower due to falling demand for Land
Remediation related to the house building
sector, they remain at 3.7%, over double that
of the margins in Building. The forward order
book in Specialist Engineering stands at
£49m (2007: £54m).
Revenue in Specialist Building increased by
11% with a 34% increase in operating profit
to £4.9m prior to exceptional charges. The
forward order book in Specialist Building is
£170m (2007: £198m), 14% lower than last
year which is in line with the capacity
reductions implemented in September.
Our total order book remains strong at
£219m (2007: £252m), with 86% being in
our specialist sectors and 79% in the form of
repeat business. These key performance
indicators remain ahead of our targets of
66% in each case.
As part of our strategy of developing our
Specialist Engineering business we continue
to look for complementary acquisitions that
can meet our demanding criteria.
Immediately following the year end, we
completed the acquisition of C.&A. Pumps
Limited (“C&A”), a specialist water services
business based in County Durham but which
operates nationally. C&A will combine with
Seymour to offer an extended package of
capability to the Water industry. This
acquisition is a further demonstration of our
commitment to grow our Specialist
Engineering business both organically and by
acquisition and follows on from the previous
acquisitions of Seymour itself and PPS
Engineering Limited, in the Nuclear sector.
Review of operations
Specialist Engineering
Nuclear
Shepley Engineers continues to be the
largest Tier 2 mechanical and electrical
contractor at Sellafield, operating in the fields
of asset support and decommissioning.
Activity levels on the Multi Disciplined Site
Wide framework were 70% above those
anticipated. Our four frameworks continue at
Sellafield with extensions recently agreed on
both Demolition and Decommissioning. Our
PPS subsidiary, which we acquired in 2006,
had an exceptional year, outperforming
forecasts and repaying its acquisition cost
within two years. We have also secured a
position in a consortium with EnergySolutions
to process Metals Recycling at Sellafield and
Drigg. We continue to have activity at the
Springfields facility at Preston and have also
been awarded a decommissioning project at
Capenhurst, which is our first award at 
this site.
Land Remediation
In response to the downturn in the house
building market, we have quickly realigned
the VHE business to access regional civil
engineering opportunities. This is
demonstrated by the recent £15m award of
the Cudworth Bypass which is the fifth major
award in recent years from Barnsley MBC.
VHE retains its Land Remediation capability
and has established itself as the leading
specialist contractor for local authority
remediation works under Part llA of the
Environment Act, completing five such
residential projects during the year, with a
further recent £2m award in Glasgow. We are
also seeing renewed activity for 2009 from
the National Grid framework.
Water
The Seymour acquisition has been fully
integrated into the Group and is performing in
line with our expectations and acquisition
plans, with 15% organic growth achieved this
year. The Northumbrian Water framework
continues to provide a significant level of
activity with good visibility out to 2010. We
have seen an encouraging increase in repeat
business for regional industrial and local
authority clients including the award of a
framework with Darlington MBC. The C&A
acquisition enhances our offering to the
Water industry. In the year ended
31 December 2007, C&A recorded an
operating profit of £0.2m on a turnover of
£4.7m. Organic expansion of civil engineering
capabilities in the South West under the
Britannia Civil Engineering brand has also
been achieved to enable access to regional
specialist water and environmental markets.
50
0
Specialist Engineering (%)
20%
24%
15%
2006 2007 2008
5
0
Group Operating Margins (%)
1.5%
1.0%
2006 2007 2008
1.9%
*
% of Group revenue
annual report & accounts 2008
93035 RENEW R&A 2008 TEXT PAGE 3
93035_Renew_R&A_2008_Text.qxp:93035_Renew_R&A_2008_Text  12/12/08  18:09  Page 3 Specialist Building
Social Housing 
Including the recent agreements with
Sanctuary and Hexagon Housing
Associations, Allenbuild now has eight
framework agreements in place, all with
leading Housing Associations in the South
East of England, for the delivery of their new
build programmes. We secured £42m of new
projects during the year. New projects
completed during the year include Cranes
Farm and Clyde Terrace, each valued at over
£8m. This business area is particularly well
secured for 2009 and our pipeline of future
projects for our existing framework partners
remains in excess of £100m.
Retail
Britannia Construction’s first project with
Marks & Spencer in Manchester has been
completed. Four projects were completed for
Tesco, with another at Wells in progress.
Allenbuild successfully completed a £26m
negotiated hotel and mixed retail
development at Southport which included
hotel, casino and retail outlets and
incorporated restoration works to the historic
Floral Hall.
Science and Education
Allenbuild has been appointed preferred
bidder on a £58m project to build the new
Kirklees College Waterfront Project at
Huddersfield and has successfully completed
the £18m Rossington School project in
Doncaster. Elsewhere, Walter Lilly has
continued good progress on the £20m
Queen Mary Innovation Centre project in
London and has received awards for two
further projects from GSK together with a
£12m contract for Eisai Pharmaceuticals 
at Hatfield.
Restoration and Refurbishment
The high-end residential sector remains busy
with a number of awards for Walter Lilly
giving good visibility for 2009 and beyond.
Five projects have now been successfully
completed under the Grosvenor Framework,
with others being processed. Good progress
continued on the major contracts at
Grosvenor Crescent and Regent’s Park. Our
established relationship with Cadogan
Estates continues with a further project at
Cadogan Gardens. 
YJLi has been appointed to a five year LUL
framework for tube network modernisations.
During the year, further modernisation works
were secured for CTRL Platforms for South
Eastern and for Network Rail at Waterloo
where we are bringing a redundant Eurostar
platform back into operational use.
Property and other activities
We have successfully developed and sold a
new factory in Cumbria for the Cumberland
Pencil Company, but, in light of recent market
conditions, there are no current development
activities ongoing in the UK. During the year,
we completed and sold the Applied Research
Facility in the USA for Johns Hopkins
University. We continue to look to realise
value from our land assets in the US with our
portfolio particularly well located in Maryland,
predominantly in the Baltimore/Washington
corridor, near to the Fort Meade National
Security Centre. 
People
The health and safety of our people at work
is our priority at all times. During the year, we
achieved a further reduction in the Accident
Incidence Rate which has now reduced by
57% over the last three years. Our target for
each of these years was a 10% reduction. 
The Group’s success derives from the quality
and skills of our people. Throughout the
Group, we have an excellent blend of
experience, youth, talent and ambition. The
Board has great confidence in our staff and
thanks them all for their commitment 
and effort.
Summary 
The Group continues to make progress on
the implementation of its strategy. Despite the
prevailing economic environment, our
specialist markets are resilient and this is
reflected in the quality of our forward 
order book.
Brian May
Chief Executive
25 November 2008
chief executive’s review 04
chief executive’s review
annual report & accounts 2008
93035 RENEW R&A 2008 TEXT PAGE 4
93035_Renew_R&A_2008_Text.qxp:93035_Renew_R&A_2008_Text  12/12/08  18:09  Page 4
