 06
Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Chief Executive’s review
Renew is now positioned as an Engineering 
Services Group supporting UK infrastructure. 
2011 	 has 	 been 	 a 	 significant 	 year 	 for 	 the 	 Group 	
which, with further organic growth and the 
acquisition of Amco, has achieved its target 
of shifting the balance of operations into 
Engineering Services. 
Engineering Services
Engineering Services revenue was £176.7m 
(2010: £127.4m) and now accounts for over 
60% of on‑going Group revenue and over 
80% 	 of 	 operating 	 profit. 	 Operating 	 margins 	
improved to 4.2% (2010: 3.3%).
In Engineering Services, Renew targets the 
key markets of Energy, Environmental and 
Infrastructure. These markets, which are 
mainly	governed	by	regulation,	benefit	from	
non‑discretionary spending patterns and 
long‑term visibility of committed funding. The 
Group focuses on the renewal, refurbishment 
and maintenance of essential operational 
assets providing an integrated engineering 
service through its local, directly employed 
delivery teams. It remains the Group’s strategy 
to grow our presence in these markets, both 
organically and by acquisition. The Group 
targets earnings enhancing acquisitions in 
markets with long‑term funding and whose 
skills are complementary to those already 
offered by the Group. 
Energy
Renew continues to operate in the nuclear, 
gas, coal, wind, hydro and biomass power 
generation sectors. Much of the work is 
delivered through 24 framework agreements, 
primarily for non‑discretionary engineering 
maintenance work.
In the Nuclear sector, where we operate at 
9 nuclear licenced sites in the UK, we have 
experienced record revenue during the year. 
The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority has 
confirmed 	 expenditure 	 of 	 £3bn 	 per 	 annum 	 for 	
the next 4 years, underpinned by committed 
Government funding. The sites where the 
Group is active have been allocated over 66% 
of 	 this 	 funding, 	 with 	 over 	 50% 	 at 	 Sellafield, 	
where we remain the largest mechanical 
and electrical contractor.
At 	 Sellafield, 	 the 	 Multi 	 Discipline 	 Site 	
Wide framework has been extended to 
September 2012. In addition, we were also 
appointed to the Decommissioning and 
Demolition framework, which is secured 
until March 2015, with an advertised spend 
of over £30m per annum. Work continues 
on major project programmes with good 
progress being made on the Evaporator D, 
Encapsulated Product Store and 
Separation Area Ventilation schemes. 
At 	 the 	 W estinghouse 	 Springfields 	 F uels 	 Site, 	
we are nearing the successful completion of 
a major plant outage project and, during the 
year, we secured a 2 year decommissioning 
contract associated with a redundant Fuel 
Manufacturing Facility.
We continue to support the consortia involved 
in the Nuclear New Build programme where 
our skills in stainless steel fabrication, materials 
handling and mechanical and electrical 
services will be increasingly in demand.
In other Energy sectors, we are currently active 
at 5 power stations and 2 wind farms, where 
framework agreements provide maintenance 
services and enable access to larger capital 
projects. There are increasing opportunities 
“2011 has been a significant year 
for the Group which, with further 
organic growth and the acquisition 
of Amco, has achieved its target of 
shifting the balance of operations 
into Engineering Services.”
Brian May, Chief Executive
Summary
  Renew is now positioned as 
an Engineering Services Group 
supporting UK infrastructure. 
  The Group focuses on the renewal, 
refurbishment and maintenance 
of essential operational assets.
  The development of our Engineering 
Services business has also improved 
Group operating margin.
  The Group targets earnings enhancing 
acquisitions in markets with long‑term 
funding and whose skills are 
complementary to those already 
offered by the Group. 07
Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Group overview 07
in both the wind and biomass sectors and 
we have also recently been appointed to 2 
hydroelectric generation framework agreements.
Environmental 
The Group has considerable expertise in 
the 	 water , 	 flood 	 alleviation, 	 coastal 	 defence 	
and land remediation sectors, providing 
multidisciplinary engineering services 
across 16 framework agreements. 
Northumbrian Water Limited remains our 
largest client in the Water sector where our 
relationship extends for over 20 years. In the 
year, we were reappointed under AMP5 to the 
major waste water project framework which 
runs initially to 2015, with an intention to extend 
for a further 6 years. Importantly, we have also 
been appointed to a number of non‑ discretionary maintenance framework 
agreements. These include 2 new framework 
agreements for trunk mains cleansing and 
water distribution, in addition to our established 
sewer maintenance framework agreement, 
where we are experiencing increased volumes. 
In Land Remediation, VHE has recently been 
appointed to 3 framework agreements with 
National Grid, continuing our long standing 
relationship with this client. These framework 
agreements are for major and minor soils 
remediation projects nationwide and are for 
a 3 year period, with an option to renew for 
a further 2 years. During the year, a number 
of projects were undertaken involving the 
remediation of former gas work sites, including 
work at St Helier for the Royal States of Jersey. 
Similar work was carried out for National Grid 
at Neepsend and Partington in Manchester, 
the 	 first 	 large 	 scale 	 cluster 	 project 	 in 	 the 	 UK , 	
under the established framework agreement.
“Over the last 5 years, our Engineering 
Services activities have grown organically 
by 93% and, when combined with our 
acquisitions, now represent annual revenue of 
more than £200m as well as providing 80% of 
the 	 Group’s 	 operating 	 profit.”
Engineering Services performance
93%
Organic growth in Engineering Services since 2006
39%
Engineering Services revenue up
The development of our Engineering 
Services business has created a platform 
of sustainable revenue generated from 
over 50 framework agreements with 
major clients, most of which operate 
in regulated markets.
118%
Engineering Services order book up
4.2%
Engineering Services operating profit margin 08
Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Chief Executive’s review
Environmental continued
We continue to provide civil, mechanical and 
electrical services under 5 minor works and 
river maintenance framework agreements 
for the Environment Agency. During the year, 
we maintained our long standing relationship 
with Cleveland Potash where we secured 
a shaft repair contract in addition to our 
ongoing maintenance activities.
Infrastructure
The Group continues to carry out small value 
highways and industrial projects across the 
UK, both under framework arrangements 
and individually.
During the year, the majority of revenue has 
been generated in the rail sector where we are 
the leading provider of engineering maintenance 
works to Network Rail. This has been recently 
recognised with the award of Infrastructure 
Maintenance T eam of the Year at the National 
Rail Awards.
Our activities in the rail sector involve the 
Group in the provision of integrated civil, 
mechanical and electrical engineering services 
where the focus is on renewal, refurbishment 
and maintenance through 8 framework 
agreements and individual capital projects.
In May, we were appointed by Network Rail 
to the Building and Civils Delivery Partnership 
(“BCDP”) framework agreements with an 
advertised value of £100m per annum. Amco 
was the only contractor appointed nationally. 
These framework agreements continue for 
3 years, with an option to extend for a further 
2 years. Amco is also one of 4 contractors on 
the 	 National 	 Electrification 	 and 	 Plant 	 framework 	
agreement, delivering a maintenance and 
renewal programme on the network for 
Network Rail throughout the UK. 
YJL Infrastructure has now been successfully 
integrated with Amco to maximise our 
response to the BCDP framework and 
to extend our capability to deliver services 
to a range of clients in the South East.
During the year, a number of individual 
capital projects were completed, including 
refurbishment work at Blackburn Station and 
the major station modernisation schemes at 
Marble Arch and Notting Hill Gate for London 
Underground. Amco has particular expertise, 
and is the market leader, in tunnel refurbishment 
work for Network Rail, having carried out 
numerous schemes over the last 10 years 
and having recently been awarded the major 
repair project in the Ore T unnel near Hastings.
Specialist Building
The Group now has three Specialist Building 
businesses in the South which target the New 
Build Social Housing, High Quality Residential 
and Retail markets. These markets, in which 
we have extensive experience and expertise, 
provide sustainable opportunities for the future. 
Specialist Building revenue was £178.9m 
(2010: £163.1m) with operating margin 
maintained at 1.1%.
In New Build Social Housing, the Government 
has 	 reconfirmed 	 its 	 commitment 	 to 	 reduce 	 the 	
significant 	 housing 	 shortage 	 in 	 the 	 South 	 East, 	
where the Group has 13 framework agreements 
with leading Housing Associations which 
provide access to a £600m annual market 
spend. Included are 3 new framework 
appointments with Estuary Housing Association, 
Hyde Housing Association and London and 
Quadrant 	 Housing 	 T rust, 	 where 	 the 	 first 	 project 	
has commenced on site at Lynton Road. 
“The acquisition of Amco has 
accelerated the transformation in 
the shape of the Group and offers 
Renew a range of opportunities 
for further growth in Engineering 
Services markets.” 09
Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Group overview 09
In High Quality Residential, the Group’s activities 
are focused in London and the Home Counties 
where the market remains strong. Our experience 
in this sector , in particular our temporary works 
engineering capability, continues to differentiate 
our services and provide opportunities. In the 
year , good progress was made on contracts 
in Mayfair and Belgravia, with new awards 
received for projects in Knightsbridge, 
Kensington and Chelsea.
In Retail, we were recently awarded a project 
to construct a new T esco store at Widnes which 
is on‑site and progressing well. A number of 
other projects were also successfully carried 
out during the year for T esco at Portland, 
Risca and Sandwell.
People
The safety of our employees and those 
who work with us continues to be the Group’s 
main priority. The results of our commitment 
to safety can be seen in the continued 
improvement in the Group’s Accident 
Incidence Rate which has progressively 
reduced by 77% since 2005.
The 	 strong 	 financial 	 results 	 demonstrate 	 the 	
skills and determination of everyone who works 
for Renew. The Board would like to thank its 
employees for their continued hard work and 
commitment to the success of the Group.
Summary
The acquisition of Amco has accelerated the 
transformation in the shape of the Group and 
offers Renew a range of opportunities for 
further growth in Engineering Services markets. 
Over 	 the 	 last 	 five 	 years, 	 our 	 Engineering 	 Services 	
activities have grown organically by 93% and, 
“The results of our commitment 
to safety can be seen in the continued 
improvement in the Group’s Accident 
Incidence Rate which has progressively 
reduced by 77% since 2005.”
when combined with our acquisitions, 
now represent annual revenue of more 
than £200m as well as providing 80% 
of 	 the 	 Group’s 	 operating 	 profit. 	
The development of our Engineering Services 
business has also improved Group operating 
margin and has created a platform of 
sustainable revenue generated from over 
50 framework agreements with major clients, 
most of which operate in regulated markets. 
These framework agreements, together with 
expected extensions and renewals, provide 
good visibility of income and quality of earnings 
both for the coming year and beyond.
Brian May 
Chief Executive
22 November 2011
   Energy  34%
  Infrastructure  37%
  Environmental  29%
Engineering Services revenue 
by market
