 Renew at a glance
02
Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
For over 200 years we have 
been delivering our expertise 
in the engineering and building 
sectors across the UK…
the past 5 years have seen us 
progressively shift the balance of 
our operations into higher margin 
Engineering Services…
Our key revenue streams Our history and where we operate
2006
2011
 
Engineering Services 
 Specialist Building
We provide our integrated Engineering Services 
nationwide. Find out more about our operations 
at www.renewholdings.com.
7
Individually branded 
subsidiary businesses
Percentage of ongoing 
Group revenue
2,033
Number of employees
Identifying our strongest revenue streams
The Engineering Services markets in which the Group operates 
engage our workforce in industries which are mainly governed by 
regulation. Consequently, our Engineering Services activities have 
greater security of funding and more predictable work streams.
Over two centuries of expertise
Renew Holdings has a history spanning over 200 years. The company 
was founded in 1786 originally as YJ Lovell by Young James Lovell, 
a surveyor. The company went public in 1968. In the late 1990s 
and early part of this century the Group reorganised its activities 
substantially, selling and acquiring various businesses. Following 
the appointment of Roy Harrison as Chairman in 2004 and of Brian 
May as Chief Executive in 2005, the Group was renamed Renew 
Holdings plc. In 2006, the Group established its strategy to focus 
on the development of Engineering Services.
Our position is strengthened by targeting markets 
mainly governed by regulation and therefore 
non‑discretionary spending plans. Most of our work is 
undertaken through long‑term framework agreements 
which give good visibility of sustainable earnings. 
63%
15%
We deliver Engineering 
Services to UK 
Infrastructure 03
Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
03 Group overview
this shift in revenue, through 
organic growth and acquisition, 
has provided the opportunity 
to capitalise on our existing 
markets and beyond…
transforming Renew into an 
Engineering Services Group 
supporting UK infrastructure.
The markets we target A multidisciplinary offering
For a full review of our market sectors and the potential 
they offer, turn to the respective pages below:
To learn more about how the transformation of 
our business aligns with our target market sectors, 
turn to pages 16–23.
We work across the energy sector in the nuclear, wind, hydro, 
biomass and traditional power generation sectors nationwide. 
Our skills are employed in supporting the power generation, 
transportation and distribution functions.
  Energy pages 16–17
W e 	 specialise 	 in 	 the 	 water , 	 flood 	 alleviation, 	 coastal 	 defence 	 and 	
land remediation sectors. The environmental projects we undertake 
for our clients leave a lasting positive impact on the communities 
we work in. 
  Environmental pages 18–19
Working nationwide for the rail industry, our work ranges from 
critical and planned asset support and renewal to our market 
leading experience in tunnel refurbishment.
  Infrastructure pages 20–21
Working in the key target markets in the south of new build social 
housing, high quality residential and retail, our Specialist Building 
operations are in stable markets with good visibility of earnings. 
  Specialist Building pages 22–23
Renew
Fully integrated multidisciplinary 
Engineering Services
Engineering Services Group 
supporting UK Infrastructure
The markets in which we operate are mainly 
governed by regulation, many with long-term 
non-discretionary spending plans
