 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
03
Overview and strategy 
This has been a year of further positive
development for the Group, and I am pleased
to be reporting a good performance across all
our businesses. This is the result of our
strategy of focusing on attractive market
sectors in which we have good skills and
experience, whilst providing effective support
and control from the centre through our
holding company structure. 
This approach allows our individual specialist
construction businesses to build on the
strength of their own brands within their areas
of operation, whilst benefiting from the
financial strength, commercial controls and
implementation of best practice procedures
from the Group’s central function, thereby
maximising the use of Group resources. 
This has resulted in a better quality order
book, which at 30 September 2006 was
£208.7m compared to £193m at the same
time last year, excluding the future benefits of
current frameworks. 78% of total orders now
lie within our core specialist activities, and
68% of new orders in 2006 were procured
through a two-stage, framework or negotiated
process with key clients. Over 70% of our
orders won have been from clients with whom
we have worked previously. 
As a continuation of our strategy of specialism
and project selectivity, and in order to
maximise the potential of our skills base and
provide consistent and cash generative
growth, we will be aligning our activities into
two focused business streams, namely
Specialist Engineering and Specialist Building.
Specialist Engineering will incorporate our
Nuclear and Land Remediation activities, and
Specialist Building will operate across a range
of regionally based, selective markets
including Social Housing, Retail, Restoration &
Refurbishment and Science & Education. 
Through our Specialist Engineering activities
we have established a good market position
and our intention is now to build on our
reputation both through organic growth and
through strategic acquisitions. The objective of
our Specialist Building activities is to continue
to generate reliable returns whilst focusing on
margin improvement and cash generation.
Review of operations
In Nuclear, we were reappointed on major 
three-year framework agreements with British
Nuclear Group to provide further operational
asset support and decommissioning and
demolition services on a number of redundant
facilities at Sellafield. During the year, we
acquired PPS Electrical Limited based at
Sellafield which has significantly enhanced 
our service offering, strengthening Shepley
Engineers’ position as the largest mechanical
and electrical contractor at this site. 
In Land Remediation, we project managed
and carried out the reclamation of the former
Stella South Power Station in Gateshead for
St Paul’s Developments and are currently
delivering site clearance and infrastructure
works at the former Rugeley Power Station 
for Persimmon Homes, due for completion in
September 2007. We are also delivering
remediation works for National Grid Property
under a framework agreement for its UK-wide
portfolio of redundant gas works. 
In Social Housing, we are now working in the
South East with five of the top six Housing
Associations. During the year, we have
successfully completed a £16.5m project 
for Community Housing Association and 
have also been appointed by the same client
as a key framework contractor. In total, we
have over £80m of future work in negotiation
with various Housing Associations as
preferred supplier. 
In Retail, we completed a major distribution
warehouse for Tesco during the year as 
well as new build and refurbishment projects
for three major stores. We have been 
working with Tesco for over 20 years now,
demonstrating the strength of our relationship.
We are also constructing a range of other
87379_RENEW_R&A_2006_TEXT PAGE 3
87379_Renew_R&A_2006_Text.qxp  8/12/06  17:06  Page 3 Annual Report & Accounts 2006
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
04
87379_RENEW_R&A_2006_TEXT PAGE 4
retail projects including a B&Q store in
Folkestone and the refurbishment of the
Cribbs Causeway Retail Park in Bristol for
Prudential Assurance. 
In Science & Education, we secured a £13m
project for the British Library. We are also
carrying out numerous projects for The
Department for Environment, Food and 
Rural Affairs through our current framework
agreement which is now in its sixth year. We
have recently established another framework
agreement with the National Physical
Laboratory. During the year we completed
schemes at a number of colleges and
universities including a new build extension 
at Imperial College, London and the new
Institute of Cancer Therapeutics at Bradford
University as part of framework agreements
with these clients. 
In Restoration & Refurbishment, we are
restoring the wrought and cast iron Victorian
roof and undercroft structures of the Grade 1
listed St Pancras station in London, which will
be the new hub for the Channel Tunnel Rail
Link. We continue to secure major contracts
to restore and refurbish very high quality
residential properties in the west of London
both for private individuals and property
investment businesses. Additionally, we have
extended our customer base in rail
infrastructure refurbishment.
We are also starting to see the benefits of
offering clients multiple and complementary
services, as is evidenced by a £15m public
sector project in Lancashire which was
completed on time and to budget. 
This pre-sold integrated development project
combined the construction skills of Allenbuild
and the land remediation capabilities of 
VHE Construction.
Property
The Group continues its strategy of
maximising the value of our portfolio of UK
and US property assets and progressively
realising them for cash. During the year, we
sold our head office building at Cornhill in
London for £12m, as well as two other UK
properties, which realised over £6m together.
This enabled the Group to eliminate over
£12m of associated borrowings. In the USA,
we have generated more than £3m of cash
through asset realisations.
People
The Group attaches great importance to the
health and safety of all those affected by our
activities. At the start of the financial year I set
out a target of decreasing the accident
incident rate by 10% per annum, and I am
pleased to report that we achieved a 19%
reduction during the year.
The Group is now well on its way to recovery
following what has been a difficult period. 
The Board is pleased to note a significant
improvement in the Group’s employee
retention rate and is extremely grateful to 
all our people for their hard work and
dedication in helping to bring the business
back to health. We have an experienced
management team in place and I am
confident that with the continued support of
everyone in the Group we will see further
success in delivering on our strategy. 
Prospects
Vigorous business processes are now
established across all of the Group’s activities.
Through increased focus on the strengths of
our two specialist business streams, which
operate in robust and growing markets, we
expect to further develop our order book and
to deliver consistent, growing profits
supported by strong cash generation. 
Brian May
Chief Executive
28 November 2006 
87379_Renew_R&A_2006_Text.qxp  8/12/06  18:13  Page 4
