 10 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Review of our strategy 
by the Chief Executive Officer
The proﬁt improvement plan, which we
embarked upon three years ago, has been
successfully delivered, having achieved
double digit underlying operating proﬁt
margins* well ahead of schedule. 
The Group’s balance sheet is robust with
lower levels of net debt** leaving us well
placed to invest in growing the business
organically and through selective bolt-on
acquisitions in our core businesses.
* Defined as operating profit before special items, divided 
by revenue.
**Defined as interest bearing loans and borrowings and 
bank overdrafts less cash and other cash equivalents. The Morgan Crucible Company plc 11
Throughout 2006 we have made excellent
progress on our strategic objectives which 
is reflected in our good financial results.
Underlying operating proﬁt margins (operating
profit before special items, divided by revenue)
for the continuing Group were 10.9% compared
to 9.1% in 2005. Like-for-like revenues in
continuing businesses were up 11.2% and
underlying operating proﬁts were 33.0% higher
than in 2005.
Highlights of 2006
I am delighted to report that all our Divisions
have delivered improved ﬁnancial results in 2006.
Revenue of the Carbon Division was up 
6.9% compared to 2005 at £213.6 million 
(2005: £199.9 million), and underlying operating
proﬁt for the Division was up 23.4% at £33.8
million (2005: £27.4 million).
The Technical Ceramics Division had another
strong year. Its revenue increased by 12.2% 
to £162.5 million (2005: £144.8 million) and
underlying operating proﬁt increased by 
39.3% to £17.0 million (2005: £12.2 million).
The performance of the Insulating Ceramics
Division has also been robust. Revenues grew 
by 13.8% to £301.7 million (2005: £265.1 million)
and underlying operating proﬁt increased by
29.8% to £27.9 million (2005: £21.5 million).
The balance sheet for the Group is very strong
with only a modest £34.1 million of net debt
(defined as interest bearing loans and borrowings
and bank overdrafts less cash and other cash
equivalents) at the year end. Furthermore, I am
pleased to tell you that Morgan Crucible has
eliminated the deﬁcit in its UK pension fund
during 2006, thanks in no small part to the one-
off contribution of £40 million during the year. As
a result of this, combined with positive moves in
our scheme assets and liabilities, the UK pension
funds had a surplus of £3.1 million on the IAS 19
Employee Benefits accounting basis at the end
of 2006 compared to a deﬁcit of £66.2 million at
the end of the previous year.
Clearly, one of the major events in 2006, was the
approach we received to buy the Company in
August. Your Chairman has covered this in his
statement; however I would like to assure you
that our business operations were not distracted
by the takeover approach. I would like 
to take this opportunity to thank our staff for 
the professionalism and commitment they
showed during a period of uncertainty.
There have also been changes in the 
Morgan Crucible management team during
2006. I would like to add my personal thanks to
Warren Knowlton who retired as Chief Executive
Officer in August. Warren successfully turned
Morgan Crucible around in the three and 
a half years that he was Chief Executive Officer
and I have inherited a very healthy company
as a result of his leadership.
Looking forward
Morgan Crucible celebrated its 150th
anniversary in 2006 which, in today’s fast-paced
and ever changing world, is an achievement 
we are proud of. As we look to the future, 
we must continue to anticipate the increasingly
sophisticated requirements of our customers 
and react to the growing intensity of the
competitive landscape, not least the 
low-cost manufacturing power of China, 
India and other fast developing economies.
Our strategy is to focus on higher growth, higher
value-added markets and to move away from
commoditised, economically cyclical market
segments. We aim to be the number one 
or two player in our chosen market segments.
This strategy has driven organic growth across
our divisions that has been higher than the GDP
growth in their markets. Our top-line growth, for
the ﬁrst time in recent years, has now overtaken
cost cutting as the major driver for our proﬁt
growth. This is the mark of a successful company. 
Our pricing position, which was negative for
many years, is now strongly positive – again a
testimony to the strength and quality of our
refocused product offering.
Of course, cost control and the constant 
drive for ongoing operational improvement
throughout the Group remain essential. 
As part of our successful proﬁt improvement 
plan we are demonstrating that cost discipline 
is now an integral part of our culture.
Investing in our people
Our employees are vital to the ongoing 
success of Morgan Crucible. We are investing 
in the development of our existing people 
and will also be searching for high quality staff
to supplement our talent pool. Over the past
three years our people have been faced 
with many challenges in the rebirth of 
Morgan Crucible. The management team 
and I have been delighted with their
commitment and enthusiasm to make 
Morgan Crucible a world class manufacturer 
of advanced materials. They have delivered on
many fronts, improving customer satisfaction,
enhancing our product portfolio and creating
value for you, our shareholders.
In my ﬁrst Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review I am
therefore pleased to report that your Company
is in robust ﬁnancial health, and is well placed to
continue its positive momentum into the future.
Mark Robertshaw
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
