 Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
16
Chief Executive’s review
Developing as a leading provider
Renew has continued to enhance its market 
position as a provider of multidisciplinary 
Engineering Services, successfully 
growing its Engineering Services both 
organically and by acquisition. Delivering 
long term maintenance and renewal 
services across the Energy, Environmental 
and Infrastructure markets, our highly 
skilled, directly employed workforce 
operates on the UK’s essential infrastructure 
assets. Our offering is differentiated 
by the promotion of our independently 
branded subsidiary businesses which 
are aligned to the needs of their clients. 
In Specialist Building, our activity is now 
primarily focused on the High Quality 
Residential market in London and the 
Home Counties, which continues to see 
strong demand and in which we have 
many years of experience and an 
excellent reputation as a leading brand.
Engineering Services
Revenue in Engineering Services 
increased by 65% to £382.5m (2013: 
£232.4m) and accounts for 82% of Group 
revenue (2013: 82%) and 88% of Group 
operating profit before exceptional 
items and amortisation prior to central 
activities (2013: 89%), generating an 
operating margin of 4.3% (2013: 4.6%). 
The Engineering Services order book has 
grown 20% to £361m (2013: £301m). 
During the year, the Group acquired 
two Engineering Services businesses 
which are leading brands in their 
respective markets. Clarke Telecom 
Limited (“Clarke”), a wireless telecoms 
infrastructure delivery business based 
in Manchester, which provides specialist 
services for the cellular market, was 
acquired in April. Forefront Group 
Limited (“Forefront”), which is based 
near London, operates across the gas 
network replacing strategic low and 
medium pressure mains, was acquired 
in August. Clients include National Grid 
and Southern Gas Networks.
These acquisitions establish the Group’s 
position in additional and complementary 
engineering markets. Strong organic 
growth has been achieved through our 
service responsiveness and development 
of key relationships.
Energy
The Group operates nationally in the 
nuclear, traditional, renewable energy 
and gas infrastructure markets.
In Nuclear, we operate across the Nuclear 
Decommissioning Authority’s estate 
where we are engaged on 9 sites that 
command around 80% of the £3bn annual 
expenditure. Over half of this spend is 
allocated to Sellafield, where we have 
operated for over 70 years and remain 
the largest mechanical, electrical and 
instrumentation employer on site. Our 
work concentrates on the support and 
care of operational plant associated 
with waste treatment or processing, 
decommissioning and clean up of 
redundant facilities.
Safety achievements at Sellafield 
include over 5 million man hours 
worked since a Lost Time Event and 
the award of Sellafield’s 2014 Resident 
Engineers Safety Award for ‘Outstanding 
Safety Performance’. 
Work at the site has increased 
substantially during the year resulting 
in a 33% increase in our provision of 
resources at the site. Our operations 
include work on the Multi Discipline Site 
Works framework where we are aligned 
with the largest scope of work at the site, 
production operations support. 
As part of the high hazard risk reduction 
operations at Sellafield, our service 
provision has again increased on the 
Evaporator Delta project which is now 
expected to provide over £80m of work 
through to its completion in 2015. 
A number of frameworks have also seen 
Summary
 > Renew has continued to 
enhance its market position as 
a provider of multidisciplinary 
Engineering Services.
 > During the year, the Group 
acquired two Engineering 
Services businesses which 
are leading brands in their 
respective markets.
 > The Engineering Services order 
book has grown 20% to £361m.
B W May
Chief Executive Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17
Strategic Report
an increase in scope including the £26m 
Bulk Sludge Retrievals framework and 
the Decommissioning framework where 
we are involved with some of the oldest 
facilities on site. 
The Infrastructure enhancement 
programme at Sellafield continues 
with the Site Wide Asset Care framework 
where we operate as sole mechanical 
and electrical partner. We also continue 
to support the future Major Projects 
Programme at Sellafield where we have 
further developed our position as a key 
strategic partner on the £1.1bn 
Infrastructure Strategic Alliance 
framework. 
Our work at Sellafield was recognised with 
the award of a supply chain accreditation 
for the second year running, demonstrating 
our ability to deliver to the highest quality 
standards in the nuclear industry. 
Elsewhere, at Springfields where we 
have operated for 15 years, work has 
commenced for Westinghouse on a 
waste processing facility, following 
the recent successful completion of a 
large decommissioning and demolition 
project at the site. We have also been 
recently appointed to support reactor 
outage works at the Heysham nuclear 
power station. We remain committed to 
developing our position as a specialist 
contractor, continuing to support 
proposals within the nuclear new build 
market where we have initially focused 
on the manufacture and supply of high 
integrity fabricated components.
Our service teams deliver long term 
maintenance and asset renewal services 
at five of the UK’s traditional power 
stations as well as progressing a number 
of opportunities in the renewable energy 
market including hydro schemes for 
Welsh Water.
The acquisition of Forefront extends our 
range of services into the specialist 
gas infrastructure market. Forefront 
operates for National Grid and Southern 
Gas Networks on the 30/30 iron mains 
replacement programme through 
frameworks and also on the London 
medium pressure strategic gas mains 
replacement programme. Forefront has 
frameworks for specialist flow stopping, 
drilling and maintenance. Although 
Forefront also has been part of the Group 
for only a few months, opportunities for 
collaborative working with other parts of 
the Group have already been identified 
and are being progressed.
Environmental 
The Group operates in the water 
infrastructure, flood alleviation, river and 
coastal defence and land remediation 
markets providing operational support 
and maintenance services.
In Water, we continue to develop our 
long standing relationships with our 
largest clients Northumbrian Water, 
Wessex Water and Welsh Water where 
we deliver works under the regulated 
AMP 5 programme. We operate on a 
number of frameworks for Northumbrian 
Water including the Major Waste Water, 
Clean Water, Maintenance and Trunk 
Mains Cleaning frameworks. We were 
selected as one of two preferred 
partners to deliver the accelerated flood 
alleviation workstreams that have seen 
substantial investment in the period. 
We also undertake planned and 
reactive maintenance, sewer lining 
and infrastructure upgrades under 
their Minor Works framework.  Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
18
Chief Executive’s review continued
Engineering Services continued
Environmental continued
We have maintained ‘Best Performing 
Contractor’ status with both Wessex 
Water and Welsh Water in the period. 
Wessex Water frameworks include 
Workstream Partner and Minor Civils 
frameworks. For Welsh Water we work 
on the Pressurised Pipelines framework, 
which has recently been extended for 
two years, and also the Major Civil 
Engineering Projects frameworks. 
We have developed our relationship with 
the Environment Agency with the award 
of the £10m MEICA framework for the 
Northern region. This exclusive framework 
covers over 600 flood control and water 
management sites throughout the region 
and will run for 4 years to March 2018.
In Land Remediation our long term 
relationship with National Grid continues 
as we undertake work on established 
remediation frameworks nationally. We 
have recently been awarded the Land 
Quality Services framework with Magnox 
for the design and construction of land 
remediation services on decommissioned 
nuclear power generation sites across the 
UK. Work is currently underway on the 
Scotia Gas Networks 8 year framework 
that will generate opportunities across 
Scotland and the South East of England 
until 2021.
Infrastructure
In the Rail sector, Renew provides off-track 
asset renewal and maintenance services 
nationally as well as a 24/7 emergency 
services to the rail network.
During 2014, AMCO Rail has responded 
to the challenges posed by the effects of 
last winter’s severe weather and additional 
works provided by the Government’s Fiscal 
Stimulus into the rail network. This has 
provided almost £65m of non-recurring 
revenue in the year in addition to 
underlying organic growth of 17%. 
AMCO Rail is increasingly recognised by 
Network Rail for its responsiveness to 
short term, low cost critical tasks and 
this is demonstrated by 5,000 individual 
remits carried out during the year on the 
Asset Management frameworks across 
the network. AMCO Rail is now one of the 
top 10 suppliers to Network Rail.
Our success in responding to and 
managing this additional workload has 
been recognised by Network Rail appointing 
AMCO Rail to seven Infrastructure Projects 
frameworks for Control Period 5, with an 
advertised value of £450m over the next 
five years.
Key projects carried out in the year 
included the reinstatement of the Dawlish 
Sea Wall, which was completed ahead of 
schedule enabling services to resume to 
Cornwall. Our specialist skills in tunnel 
and shaft maintenance and refurbishment 
saw us successfully complete major 
schemes at Holme Tunnel and Whiteball 
Tunnel, both of which were on time and 
within budget.
The acquisition of Clarke takes the Group 
into a new market. As a leading provider of 
wireless telecoms infrastructure services, 
Clarke’s clients include all of the major 
wireless network operators and original 
equipment manufacturers. Integration 
with the Group has progressed well since 
acquisition and Clarke’s order book has 
grown by over 10% since acquisition. 
Specialist Building
Specialist Building results have been 
restated following the reclassification 
of Allenbuild Ltd as a discontinued 
business details of which are set 
out below.  Renew Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19
Strategic Report
Specialist Building continued
An operating profit of £2.2m (2013: £1.3m) 
was generated from revenue of £82.1m 
(2013: £50.6m), giving a margin of 2.6% 
(2013: 2.5%). Our Specialist Building order 
book stands at £78.1m (2013: £62.5m). 
In the High Quality Residential market in 
London and the Home Counties, we have 
over 50 years of experience and specialist 
engineering expertise in carrying out 
major structural alteration works 
including extensions below the ground. 
During the year, we completed projects 
for private clients at Wimbledon Village 
and on the Wentworth Estate, Surrey. 
Work is currently under way to demolish 
and reconstruct a substantial country 
home in Burnham Beeches and on a 
Grade II listed residence in London’s 
Belgravia district. 
Subsequent to the year end, we announced 
the sale of Allenbuild Ltd, our subsidiary 
business which focused on the new build 
affordable housing market, to Places 
for People Group Limited (“PFP”). PFP 
has acquired 50% of the issued share 
capital for £1.375m and will assume 
100% ownership of Allenbuild after ten 
outstanding contracts, for which the 
Group retains the benefit, reach practical 
completion which is expected to be in 
about twelve months' time. PFP will have 
the benefit of four new contracts and any 
further work which is now procured. 
People
Our commitment to the safety of our 
employees and those who work with us 
remains a priority for everyone at Renew. 
The changing nature of our operations 
into smaller, high volume tasks has 
seen an increase in behavioural safety 
training, alongside a wide range of safety 
initiatives, undertaken over the year. 
We are pleased to report a cumulative 
reduction in our Accident Incidence Rate 
of more than 90% over the last 9 years.
Summary
Our Specialist Building business has 
demonstrated its ability to deliver 
consistent profits and is well positioned 
with a strong order book.
In Engineering Services, our range of 
capabilities and responsiveness to our 
clients’ needs sees us operate on some 
of the largest programmes of work 
to maintain key infrastructure assets 
in the UK. 
We are strongly positioned in sustainable 
markets which are mainly regulated and 
which benefit from long term spending 
programmes. This will continue to provide 
opportunities for further profitable growth.
B W May
Chief Executive
25 November 2014
