 08 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
Chairman’s statement
I am delighted to be joining
Morgan Crucible at an exciting
time for the Company and on its
150th anniversary. We look
forward with confidence to the
next phase in our history. The Morgan Crucible Company plc 09
Let me brieﬂy introduce both myself and your
new Chief Executive Officer. I am currently
Chairman of Travis Perkins plc and the Senior
Independent Director of Tribal plc; I also chair
the Governors of Oxford Brookes University. I
spent the majority of my management years at
Burmah Castrol plc where I was Chief Executive
from 1998 to 2000. 
Board changes
There have been some substantial changes to
your Board during the year, with both a new
Chairman and a new Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. 
Lars Kylberg retired from the Board in December
after a total of ten years at Morgan Crucible
including three as Chairman. Warren Knowlton
retired as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer in August 2006
after three and a half successful years turning
the fortunes of your Company around. 
Morgan Crucible is in a very strong ﬁnancial
position and has delivered higher returns to you,
our shareholders, compared to the FTSE 350
index since 2003. Much of this is due to Warren’s
leadership. On behalf of the Board I should like
to wish both Lars and Warren well in the future.
Your new Chief Executive Officer is Mark
Robertshaw, who succeeded Warren on 
4 August. Mark joined Morgan Crucible in
October 2004 as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and
then Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, and has made a
vital contribution to the successful transformation
of the Company. I am much looking forward to
working with Mark and the Board in building
Morgan Crucible’s future success.
Kevin Dangerﬁeld succeeded Mark as 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer after ﬁve years as Group
Financial Controller. His deep knowledge of 
the business will be of considerable beneﬁt to 
the Company.
David Coker retired as Company Secretary in
December after 18 years with Morgan Crucible.
I thank him on behalf of the Board for his hard
work and we wish him a happy and restful
retirement. Paul Boulton, our Group Legal
Counsel, replaced David with effect from 
1 January and, on behalf of the Board, 
we welcome the great contribution that 
he has made so far.
Reporting structure
After the positive feedback that we received
when we adopted the framework of the
Operating and Financial Review (OFR) in 
our 2005 Report, we have built on that by
providing a comprehensive Business Review 
for 2006. Providing transparent information 
to shareholders is important to us and our
Business Review provides shareholders, both 
large and small, with more information on our
performance, the risks and opportunities we
face and how we manage the business.
Bid approach
In August 2006 we announced that 
Morgan Crucible had received a preliminary
approach which might or might not have led 
to an offer for the Company. The Board and
management team are focused on delivering
value to you, our shareholders, and are fully
aware of their ﬁduciary responsibility to entertain
any serious offer. In October we announced
that discussions had not led to an offer that was
acceptable to the Board and that talks had thus
been terminated. The management team did
not solicit any offer and they, along with your
Board, are conﬁdent in the prospects of the
business and its strategy for delivering value to
you through proﬁtable growth.
Dividend
A ﬁnal dividend of 3.0 pence per share 
(2005: 2.5 pence per share) will be
recommended at the forthcoming AGM,
making a total dividend for the year of 
4.5 pence (2005: 2.5 pence).
Our people
The continuing momentum of the progress 
of Morgan Crucible is down to its people – our
employees. I know that we have many
dedicated and skilled people around the world
who strive for high standards in providing high
value-added, higher margin products. On your
behalf I should like to congratulate them for their
achievements and to thank them for all their
hard work and commitment.
Morgan Crucible is well placed to continue 
to make excellent progress. You may know 
that 2006 was the 150th anniversary of the
Company. Not many British companies can
claim the accolade of remaining an
independent business for 150 years.
We look forward with conﬁdence to 
the next phase in our history.
Tim Stevenson
Chairman 
