 Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 01
Operational and 
ﬁnancial highlights
Revenue 
Continuing businesses £m 
000.0 
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
835.0
693.2
677.8
609.8
581.6
Highlights 
   Revenue for the full year grew to £835.0 million, up 20.5% on the previous year
   Group underlying operating proﬁt margin *
improved to 11.8% compared to 11.4% 
for the full year 2007
   Underlying EPS improved by 18.8% to 23.4 pence from 19.7 pence
   The technical ceramics businesses acquired from the Carpenter T echnology Corporation 
in March 2008 have performed well with 
revenues and proﬁts ahead of expectations
* Operating proﬁt before amortisation of intangible assets.
Underlying operating proﬁt margin*
Continuing businesses %
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
11.8
11.4
7.0
3.8
(2.0) Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 02
Clear positioning...
Our vision
Our aim
Our strategic priorities
 Focus on higher growth, higher margin, 
non-economically cyclical markets
 Be high value-added to our customers
 Be number one or number two in our 
chosen market segments
 Have a culture of operational excellence 
and cost efﬁciency
 Find, keep and develop the right people
     Our vision is to be one of the world’ s very best advanced materials companies
      Our aim is to create long-term superior shareholder value Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 03
T echnical Ceramics
Division
2 1 2.2m
Divisional revenue
£
...and structure
Divisional EBITA*
Continuing businesses £m 
Divisional EBITA*
Continuing businesses £m 
2008 2007 2006
45.6
37.5
28.6
Divisional EBITA*
Continuing businesses £m 
Carbon
Division
239 .9m
Divisional revenue
£
The Carbon Division is a global provider 
of advanced materials technology with 
extensive expertise in the processing 
and applications of carbon, graphite, 
silicon carbide, oxide ceramics and 
other related materials. Working at the 
forefront of materials technology, Carbon 
develops value-added customer solutions 
through engineering innovation and 
an understanding of industry-speciﬁc 
needs, opportunities and challenges. 
Core products/applications:
Electrical brushes Seals and bearings Protective ballistic armour Ultra high temperature insulation Markets: 
Transportation Industrial equipment Fluid handling Defence and aerospace Renewable energy Insulating Ceramics 
Division
The Insulating Ceramics Division designs, 
manufactures and installs a wide variety 
of engineered solutions from its range 
of world renowned advanced insulation 
and thermal management products. 
These solutions help customers to protect 
equipment and personnel and also to 
reduce dramatically energy consumption 
in their processes and, in many applications, 
also help reduce emissions to the 
environment. 
Core products/applications:
Thermal management solutions Insulating ﬁbres Insulating ﬁre bricks Crucibles and furnaces Markets: 
Petrochemical Power generation Ceramics and glass Metals Transportation 382.9m
Divisional revenue
£
The Technical Ceramics Division utilises 
advanced ceramic, glass, precious metals, 
piezoelectric and dielectric materials combined 
with innovative design and applications 
engineering to provide an extensive range 
of ceramic components, assemblies and 
related products for niche technological 
applications in selected markets. In many 
applications, the technology provided by 
Technical Ceramics deﬁnes the performance 
of the customer’s end product. 
Core products/applications:
Electron tube components and assemblies Ceramic cores for turbine blades Piezoelectric ceramic actuators Laser components Markets: 
Aerospace Electronics Medical Power generation and distribution Security and defence The Morgan Crucible Company plc 
2008 2007 2006
31.6
20.0
17 .2
2008 2007 2006
36.3
35.2
34.1
* Divisional EBITA is deﬁned as segment operating proﬁt before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 04
A global business...
* Operating proﬁt before amortisation of intangible assets.
Operations by geography
Americas
£55.3m
Underlying operating proﬁt* 
2008 
Morgan Crucible has operations 
in 40 countries and employs 
over 10,000 people worldwide.
+
24.5%
Group underlying operating proﬁt* 
£m 
2008 2007
98.2
78.9
56.3% Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 05
...growing profits 
worldwide 
EM EA
(Europe, Middle East and Africa)
Asia
(Including Australia and New Zealand)
£22.4m
Underlying operating proﬁt* 
2008
£20.5m
Underlying operating proﬁt* 
2008 
22.8%
20.9% Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 06
Lead i ng edge
sol utions for 
a demand i ng
world
New global research  
and development centre
Thermal Ceramics: Investing in technology
Improved thermal and energy efﬁciency is a key global imperative 
for the 21st century. As part of the Insulating Ceramics Division, the 
Thermal Ceramics business is well placed to help address this need 
with its differentiated advanced technology insulation solutions, 
including the bio-soluble Superwool™ range of materials. Thermal 
Ceramics is building on its success in high temperature bio-soluble 
insulating ﬁbre having invested in 2008 in a new global R&D centre 
at Bromborough, UK. The new R&D centre houses pilot equipment 
dedicated to developing and trialling the next generation of materials.  Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 07
Efﬁciency in the world’s  
power stations
Carbon: Generations of world leading technology
World demand for electricity is increasing and the carbon brushes 
designed and manufactured by the Carbon Division provide the 
key technology which allows electricity to be transferred from 
a high rotational speed modern generator into the electricity 
distribution grid. 
To perform this task the Carbon Division has developed unique 
graphite materials technology for excitation slip rings, with good 
life, ﬁlm forming and electrical current sharing properties. It is this 
technology that has enabled the Carbon Division to maintain its 
position as a long-term, world leader, approved and used by original 
equipment manufacturers around the world.
Innovation improves disk drive 
storage capacity
Technical Ceramics: Growth through innovation
Total demand for data storage has been growing by over 50% 
annually in recent years and high capacity storage is now required 
in ever more devices including HD-TV recorders and increasingly 
powerful PCs. Increasing the physical size of such devices is not 
an option and so the Technical Ceramics Division has been working 
with major players in the ﬁeld to increase disk drive capacity. Fitting 
more data onto the same size of disk requires increasingly accurate 
control of the read/write head and Technical Ceramics’ piezoelectric 
actuator plates enable the head to be positioned with extraordinary 
accuracy and vibration control. This leading edge technology 
increases disk drive capacity by 15-20%, opening up opportunities 
for Morgan and its customers. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 08
Superwool 607 diesel particulate 
ﬁlters production
Thermal Ceramics: Long-term partnerships
Thermal Ceramics, part of the Insulating Ceramics Division, has 
a comprehensive technical and supply agreement with the leading 
manufacturer of diesel particulate ﬁlters. Demand for these ﬁlters 
is being driven by increased use of diesel engines and increasingly 
stringent global vehicle emission standards. Advanced technology 
insulation is used to enable the ﬁlter to reach the high temperatures 
necessary for ‘self cleansing’. Working with its customer, Thermal 
Ceramics achieved a technological breakthrough which enables 
bio-soluble Superwool 607HT™ to be used, delivering beneﬁts 
to our customer, in manufacture, in service and at end-of-life. 
Recuperative furnace
Molten Metal Systems: Addressing customer needs
Traditional brick lined gas-ﬁred metal-melting furnaces are energy 
hungry. Much of the energy goes into heating the brick lining 
or goes up the stack. As a result an aluminium melting furnace 
may only be 18% efﬁcient. The MkV ‘R’ furnace from Morgan 
Molten Metal Systems, part of the Insulating Ceramics Division, 
uses recuperative burner systems to recycle waste heat from the 
furnace stack to preheat the combustion air entering the burner. 
This is combined with the most efﬁcient low thermal mass materials 
for the furnace lining so the MkV ’R‘ furnace can be more than 
twice as efﬁcient as a traditional one – a real breakthrough. In 
addition, advanced burner technology means lower NOx emissions, 
enabling the furnace to be operated both safely and with minimum 
environmental impact.
Strong 
pa rtnersh ips and 
g round breaking
tech nology 40
40 years of collaboration 
and innovation
Technical Ceramics: Joint technology development
During 2008, Technical Ceramics and leading pump manufacturer 
Grundfos celebrated 40 years of working together. The two 
companies have collaborated on multiple innovations over the 
years, including the development of a ceramic solution intrinsic 
to the performance of the circulator pumps to be found in most 
modern central heating systems. Millions of these pumps are 
made annually so it was appropriate that the 40 year celebration 
also included the formal opening of the new Volume Precision 
Ceramics department at Technical Ceramics’ Stourport, UK site 
and the award by Grundfos of a new multi-million euro contract. 
Preben Jakobsen, Grundfos Technical Manager, said: 
“The reliability and durability of the components that 
Technical Ceramics supplies are absolutely critical to us. 
Without the reassurance they offer we would not be 
able to stand by our lifetime and performance guarantees, 
on which our reputation in the industry relies.”
Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 09
Medical diagnostic imaging 
demands technical solution
Technical Ceramics: Global technology solution
Technical Ceramics works closely with its customers in the 
healthcare sector, helping to push forward the frontiers of material 
technology to produce ceramic based components which are critical 
to the performance of the latest high deﬁnition medical diagnostics 
and imaging equipment. For example, ceramics are increasingly 
used in the vacuum tubes at the heart of the latest x-ray and 
CAT scanning machines, replacing traditional glass components. 
The high purity, engineered components supplied by Technical 
Ceramics have speciﬁc electrical and physical properties which help 
equipment manufacturers to produce machines which offer longer 
life, higher power and better images. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 10
En hanci ng 
global 
sustainability
Getting the power from 
the wind into the grid
Demand for clean, sustainable, CO 2 free energy has never been 
greater and Carbon is well placed to help original equipment 
makers to develop this growth market. The Division supplies the 
key enabling technologies for wind power generation – for both 
turbines and the generators within. Long life and reliability are 
essential for all the key components in a wind turbine. Many 
are installed in harsh and corrosive marine and high altitude 
environments where access is difﬁcult and repeated maintenance 
is not an easy option. 
Carbon: Helping make a difference Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 11
A bright future for solar energy
Group-wide: Co-operating to add value
The Earth receives an impressive 10,000 times more energy from 
the sun than mankind consumes every year. The three Divisions 
of Morgan Crucible are involved in the challenge to harness this 
solar energy for our everyday use.
Technical Ceramics is working with leading companies who are 
developing photovoltaic (PV-Cell) power. Utilising materials science 
and applications engineering their contribution takes the form 
of optimised products for both the PV-cell manufacturing process 
and the ﬁnished panels. 
The Carbon Division is leveraging its world leading capability in 
high temperature insulation for solar silicon manufacturers around 
the globe, helping to increase efﬁciency and making solar energy 
a more viable source of long-term, sustainable electrical power. 
Thermal Ceramics’ advanced insulation systems are used in 
the emerging ‘concentrated solar power’ sector where arrays 
of tracking reﬂectors are used to focus solar energy to create a 
high temperature in a deﬁned space. This includes ‘power tower’ 
applications where the concentrated sunlight melts salt and the 
heat energy is then used to generate electricity and also ’Sterling 
engine’ applications whereby heat energy is directly converted 
into mechanical power which is used to generate electricity.
The solar energy market is set for a bright future and Morgan 
is well positioned to support its ongoing growth and success.
Heat recovery steam 
generators boost efﬁciency
Thermal Ceramics: Reducing CO
2
 emissions per unit of electricity
The most efﬁcient way of converting fossil fuel into electricity is 
in a combined cycle power station which combines a gas turbine 
with a heat recovery steam generator (HRSG) which recovers 
exhaust heat from the gas turbine to make steam to power 
a second generator. The HRSG boosts efﬁciency and thermal 
efﬁciency is key to achieving this. Thermal Ceramics has a leading 
position in supplying the advanced insulation solutions required. 
The market is set to see further growth as gasiﬁcation technology 
is used to convert coal and heavy crude oil into ‘syngas’ which 
can then be used in a gas turbine rather than being limited to 
use in a traditional coal or oil ﬁred power station. Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 12
Finding the right people 
worldwide
Thermal Ceramics: Global recruitment
Thermal Ceramics is using its global presence to help identify, 
attract and retain the right people worldwide. For example the 
European and Asian operations are working with Chinese MBA 
students attending the Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers 
(CNAM) in Paris. Whilst the students are in Europe they have the 
opportunity to spend time with Thermal’s European operations, 
carrying out special projects which support the business and their 
studies whilst also learning about Thermal Ceramics’ advanced 
insulation technologies. On completion of their studies they have 
the opportunity to join the Thermal Ceramics team of over 800 
employees in China bringing world-class business, technical and 
language skills. Recent participants came from backgrounds in 
ﬁnance, automation, biotechnology and engineering. 
D eve l o p i n g  
an d re tainin g
the rig ht people Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 13
Graduate recruitment 
programme 
T echnical Ceramics: The next generation
To help ensure Technical Ceramics continues to attract the best 
talent, the Division initiated a Graduate Recruitment Programme 
at the end of 2007. The programme targets graduates in both 
North America and Europe and emphasises the opportunity to
join a global business and to work with cutting edge materials 
technology. Following a series of assessment days, ﬁve graduates 
and post-graduates are selected from a variety of disciplines, 
including mechanical, systems, materials and biomaterials, 
ceramics and chemical engineering.
Ken Ash, HR Manager, Technical Ceramics Stourport, said: 
“This program has enabled us to identify a really high quality 
batch of new engineers. In the coming years they will help 
sustain the technical expertise in Technical Ceramics while 
bringing fresh ideas into the business.”
Developing our people to 
achieve their full potential
Group-wide: e-learning to share the vision
Our aim is to enable our people to achieve their full potential by 
developing the depth and breadth of their skills and capabilities 
that will help to achieve our vision of being one of the world’s 
very best advanced materials companies. 
In August 2008 we launched our ﬁrst worldwide e-learning 
programme, ‘Business English’. With businesses around the globe, 
Morgan Crucible’s e-learning programmes extend the range and 
power of training and development that we can offer our people. 
The ‘Business English’ programme will help and encourage our 
people to communicate with greater effect across borders, countries 
and continents and improve the overall performance of our business.
