  20 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
chA iRMAn ’s st Ate Ment
A record year for Morgan c rucible:  
the strongest performance in 155 years 
of history – tribute to a sound and  
well-implemented strategy and a  
skilled and dedicated team of employees.  
A result which puts us well on track  
to achieving our three published goals  
for 2013: doubling of underlying PBt  
to circa £150 million; mid-teen operating 
profit margins and an Operating ROce  
of 35%.
Overview
A stronger global economy and a disciplined 
approach to making reality of our strategy 
delivered sales growth of over 8% at £1,101.0 
million compared to £1,017.1 million in 2010. 
Underlying operating profit was £141.5 million 
compared to £101.6 million in 2010, and 
underlying diluted earnings per share was  
28.6 pence (2010: 17.8 pence). n et debt was 
reduced from £236.2 million to £215.4 million, 
meaning that the net debt to eBitd A ratio 
improved to 1.2 times, compared to 1.7 times 
at d ecember 2010.
A particular success in the year has been the  
positive results achieved from the integration of 
the t hermal c eramics and t echnical c eramics 
businesses in 2010. t he anticipated benefits 
have been successfully delivered; more 
important, it is clear that the relative strengths 
of each Business complement each other  
in a way that can be used to improve the 
performance of both. 
Dividend
Against this background the Board is 
recommending a 20% increase in the final 
dividend to 6.0 pence per Ordinary share, 
bringing the total dividend for the year to  
9.25 pence.
Tim Stevenson Chairman
Dividend per share
Pence
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
6.75
7.0
7.0
7.7
9.25
+20%
Tim Stevenson Chairman Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 21
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Board and Governance
w e pay close attention to the need for our 
Board to add substantial value to the work of 
the executive by ensuring that non-executives 
have a real understanding of the business;  
that they know its senior people and that  
the culture of the Board is conducive to 
straightforward debate and challenge on  
the right issues at the right level of discussion.  
t he setting of agendas is carefully managed 
through the year to ensure that all key areas  
of strategy are covered and that the Board  
has the maximum possible exposure to  
senior employees from across the Group.  
t his is achieved also by ensuring regular visits 
to Group locations and attendance at Group 
executive meetings.
w ith seven members the Board is small 
enough to enable full discussion and the 
characteristics of the non-executive cadre 
provide a valuable variety of approach in 
discussion of major issues. t he current 
effectiveness of the Board was confirmed by  
a thorough external review conducted during 
the year by d r t racy l ong. d r l ong’s review 
made suggestions for ways in which the Board’s 
performance could be further improved:  
these are dealt with in more detail later in  
the Governance section of this Report. Most 
important is the need to ensure that as existing 
non-executive directors retire there is an 
appropriate, managed process of renewal.  
An important part of this will be to ensure that 
so far as possible there is useful diversity of skill 
and experience. By diversity we imply by no 
means just the gender issue – although that  
is important – but the requirement to have 
non-executives with a variety of different 
backgrounds to enable the most appropriate 
stretch and challenge for the executive. 
Outlook
it is impossible in current circumstances to  
be other than cautious about the outlook  
for business in 2012. Yet after a record year  
of revenue and operating profit in 201 1 and 
with healthy order books as we go into the 
new year, we are confident that absent a 
serious exogenous shock – most obviously a 
euro-led crisis – we can successfully continue 
with implementation of what is now a 
well-proven strategy for growth in our 
businesses. even if there is a major economic 
problem, we are well-placed to manage 
through it, both because of the underlying 
strength of all our businesses and because 
management, having amply demonstrated 
appropriate agility through the last recession, 
will be well-prepared for taking the right steps, 
early, to see our way through another.
Morgan c rucible is a well-managed Group 
with a sound culture which elicits strong loyalty 
and commitment from all of its employees.  
t he success that we have had in 201 1 – and 
our firm foundations for the future – is very 
much their success. As always, the Board 
thanks them for their effort, enthusiasm  
and commitment.
Tim Stevenson
chairman
