 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS  Annu Al report 2013  Annu Al report 2013  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
CHAIr MAn ’S St Ate Ment
An Drew Shil STOn 
CHAIr MAn
6 oV er VIew
2013 w AS A ye Ar o F SIgn IFICAnt 
CHAnge F or t He g roup AS  
t He o ne Morg An M o Del w AS 
IMpleM enteD . tHIS pro VIDeD 
t He pl At For M For F uture 
growt H In our CHo Sen 
MAr KetS , In VeStM ent I n 
te CHnology A n D Better 
Del IVery M eCHAn ISMS to our 
Cu Sto Mer S. IMpro VIng MA rg In 
per For MAn Ce w AS ACHIeVeD  
In A CHA lleng Ing glo BAl 
eCono My A n D we looK 
Forw Ar D to C ontI nu Ing  
t HIS progre SS In 2014. MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS  Annu Al report 2013  Annu Al report 2013  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Morgan Advanced Materials is a business  
with diverse products selling into a wide  
range of global markets. It is this diversity  
which contributes resilience, by avoiding 
over-exposure to end-markets and over-
reliance on individual products. t his also 
creates challenges, as to be successful we need 
to focus on key customers and technologies 
where we bring distinctive products and levels 
of service. It is in response to these challenges 
that the o ne Morgan model was implemented 
across the g roup, enabling us to adapt our 
approach to respond to local needs as well  
as recognising that some businesses require 
addressing globally. w e are also improving our 
recognition and capture of new technologies 
through g lobal Materials Centres of excellence 
and investment in r &D.
t he combination of the o ne Morgan model 
and focus on our portfolio, in ensuring that we 
only keep and invest in high-margin businesses, 
will be the foundation for sustainable profitable 
growth and margin enhancement.
t he changes being implemented are significant 
for our employees and it is gratifying to see that 
the response has been enthusiastic, improving 
co-operation across the g roup, sharing ideas 
and bringing all our expertise to our customers. 
t he Board is grateful to all of our staff for the 
hard work in driving through these changes.
o ur end-markets have been challenging in 
2013, but we have achieved an improving level 
of profits and margins as the year progressed, 
with 12.9% eBIt A margin in the second half  
of the year. Cash generation was good and  
net debt was reduced to £186.5 million.  
It is proposed that the final dividend for  
the year will be increased to 6.7 pence  
(2012: 6.4 pence) making the full-year dividend 
10.5 pence, a 5% increase year-on-year.
w e are delighted to welcome Douglas Caster 
and r ob r owley to the Board. Douglas is  
a highly experienced engineer with a strong  
track record in managing and driving growth in 
electronics businesses. rob has an impressive 
record of board-level experience and he will  
be bringing that to bear at Morgan.
t he Board would like to thank Martin Flower 
and Simon Heale for their very considerable 
contributions to the g roup as they both retire 
from the Board in the first half of 2014. In their 
nine years on the Board they have provided 
invaluable counsel and guidance to the 
management team in reshaping Morgan and 
leave the g roup well positioned to achieve 
enhanced profitable growth.
Andrew Shilston 
Chairman
SuCC eSSFul 
IMple MentAt Ion o F
one
Morg An
7 oV er VIew
Overview STr ATeGiC 
rep OrT
Dire CTOr S’ 
rep OrT
Fin AnC iAl 
STATemen TS
