 8 Str Ateg IC report
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS  Annu Al report 2013  Annu Al report 2013  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
2013 has been a year of significant change  
for Morgan, implementing a new organisation 
structure, striving for profit and margin 
improvements in markets that predominantly 
have afforded little or no growth and 
accelerating our portfolio transformation.  
I am pleased to report that, relative to our 
direct competitors, we have demonstrated 
significantly greater resilience in the difficult 
market conditions. n evertheless, we are  
very clear that regardless of market conditions, 
as an organisation our aspiration remains to 
drive absolute improvement in our results.  
In 2013, against the backdrop of the difficult 
environment, whilst we made year-on-year 
progress in our g roup eBIt A margin, 
increasing it to 12.4% (2012: 12.0%), our 
revenue and eBIt A in absolute terms were 
below 2012 levels. However, I believe that  
the structural and portfolio changes that we  
are well advanced in making leave us well 
positioned to take advantage of profitable 
growth opportunities in 2014 and to continue 
to improve further the quality and returns of 
the g roup, both in relative and absolute terms. 
One morgan
In February 2013 we announced and began the 
implementation of our o ne Morgan model – 
streamlining the former Divisional organisation 
and moving to a single management structure 
organised on a regional basis: n orth America, 
europe and Asia/r est of w orld. In this new 
model, each region is able to offer our 
customers the full range and depth of our 
products and technologies and I am delighted 
with how well this major organisational change 
has been implemented. t he simplification of 
the management structure has improved our 
global communication and accelerated the  
pace of change, leaving the group increasingly 
well positioned for future profitable growth  
and margin enhancement. w e successfully 
implemented this new organisational model 
without losing focus on our day-to-day 
operations and whilst continuing to provide 
excellent service to our customers.
CHIeF exe Cut IVe o FFICer ’S re VIew
w e re MAIn F o Cu SeD on B u Il DIng 
Su St AInAB le C o Mpet It IVe ADVAnt Age 
In A ttr ACt IVe MAr Ket S, t Hroug H  
A port Fol Io o F Bu SIne SSeS w It H  
truly DIFF erent IAte D pro Du CtS  
AnD Ser VICeS, unD erp Inne D By 
worlD -le ADIng te CHnology.
mArk rO ber TShA w 
CHIeF exe Cut IVe oFFIC er 9 Str Ateg IC report
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS  Annu Al report 2013  Annu Al report 2013  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
STr ATeGiC 
rep OrT
Dire CTOr S’ 
rep OrT
Fin AnC iAl 
STATemen TS
Overview
t he focus of the move to the o ne Morgan 
organisation remains on capturing greater 
profitable growth opportunities by fully 
leveraging the breadth of our geographic and 
market access. w hilst it is still early days, there 
have already been some initial successes in this 
area with additional sales opportunities being 
identified and pursued through our extensive 
range of customers and channels.
w hilst I will comment on the g roup  
and regional results in more detail later on,  
it is worth noting that the general industry 
background has been difficult through 2013  
and in most markets we have seen limited 
pickup in demand as many countries around 
the world continue to find achieving meaningful 
economic recovery to be a challenge. However, 
I am pleased to report that the operational and 
cost benefits targeted under o ne Morgan have 
been realised, enabling us to improve operating 
margins despite the difficult competitive 
environment, whilst at the same time positioning 
us better for future profitable growth. 
o ne of the key operational benefits of the new 
structure is that we have significantly shortened 
our reporting lines, enabling closer contact  
with the operating units and an increased level 
of agility to respond even more effectively  
to any change in market conditions. It has also 
given us the opportunity to re-evaluate the 
businesses and technologies in our portfolio,  
to heighten further our focus on building 
sustainable competitive advantage  
underpinned by world-leading technology. 
r evenue in n orth America declined 5.6% 
relative to 2012 at constant currency. t he 
decline in large petrochemical project demand 
impacted our high-temperature insulating  
fibre and insulating firebrick sales, with some 
degree of offset by increased sales of our fibre 
products to the automotive industry and to the 
general industrial market. w e have increased 
our Superwool
®
 low bio-persistent fibre 
capacity and market penetration and this has 
provided benefits to both sales and margin. 
n orth America was also adversely impacted by 
a decline in our sales to the electronics market. 
w hilst the consumer electronics market as a 
whole weakened during 2013, we were 
specifically impacted by reduced hard disc drive 
sales as we chose not to engage in heavy price 
discounting and saw our market share of  
this business reduce as a consequence. 
encouragingly our sales of electrical brush  
and related products did increase during 2013, 
largely due to new business wins in the  
wind energy after-market where we  
have successfully developed differentiated 
high-performing products that are taking  
a growing share in those applications.
 
r evenue for the european region was 3.7% 
below 2012 at constant currency, though,  
as with g roup revenue, this year-on-year 
decline was all relative to the first half of 2012. 
o ne encouraging exception was an increase in 
our electrical brush and rotary business during  
the course of the year, driven by successfully 
winning market share from our competitors. 
Despite the continued reduction in u K defence 
spending, our u K-based Composites and 
Defence Systems business delivered sales  
very similar to 2012 at improved margin  
levels. w hilst, as noted above, we exited the 
low-margin vehicles spares contract towards 
the end of 2013, we have been successful  
in some important new contract wins for  
2014 and beyond, particularly in armoured 
vehicle programmes for the u K MoD.
o ur goal is for all our businesses and 
technologies to have the potential to deliver 
mid-teen operating profit margins and we  
have already exited in 2013 from certain 
businesses that fall short of our requirements  
of technology-rich, mid-teen margins. In 2013  
our Composites and Defence Systems business 
(formerly np Aerospace) exited a spares  
and logistics contract with the u K Ministry  
of Defence (‘MoD’); whilst supporting the 
Composites and Defence Systems-built Mastiff 
fleet in theatre was important and a source  
of revenue, it was not an ‘advanced materials’ 
business and generated very low margins. 
t owards the end of 2013 we also sold the 
majority of our shares in the loss-making  
Assam Carbon products l imited, India.  
t his process of portfolio reshaping will 
continue through 2014. 
Group results
w ith challenging market conditions, our 
revenue of £957.8 million was 4.9% below 
2012 at both reported exchange rates and on  
a constant currency basis. t his year-on-year 
reduction was a reflection of revenue being 
lower in the first half of 2013 compared to the 
first half of 2012; with revenue in the second 
half of 2013 increasing marginally compared  
to the equivalent period in the prior year on  
a constant currency basis.
Despite the lower revenue, g roup underlying 
operating profit of £108.5 million was 
marginally ahead of 2012, £107.7 million.
All three regions saw a large decline in major 
petrochemical projects, into which we provide 
our high-temperature insulating fibre and 
insulating firebrick management solutions.  
t he low level of global industrial demand  
and reduced credit availability to fund such large 
projects has led to delays in their commissioning. 
encouragingly, enquiry levels for these projects 
remained high in 2013 and in recent weeks  
we have seen some initial project orders being 
placed, providing some grounds for optimism 
in this market for 2014. 10 Str Ateg IC report
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS  Annu Al report 2013  Annu Al report 2013  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
r evenue in Asia/r est of w orld was 5.7% 
lower than 2012 at constant currency. In 
addition to the weak petrochemical market,  
the general industrial market was also subdued, 
most notably in China and India. In 2013 we 
celebrated 25 years of having an operational 
presence in China, and, whilst our sales in 
China and most of the rest of the region were 
lower year-on-year, we remain confident in  
the long-term demand prospects of the region. 
As a result, we continue to invest significant 
amounts of resource, both in terms of our 
people and also in new capital investment.  
w e are close to completion of our greenfield 
site in Dalian, China for high-temperature 
castable products and expect to commission 
this new plant in the second quarter of 2014. 
w e also expect to commence work in  
2014 on a new plant for Superwool
®
  
high-temperature insulating fibre in Khalifa 
Industrial z one Abu Dhabi, the u nited Arab 
emirates which will give us close proximity to 
key customer opportunities in petrochemical 
markets in the region and access to low-cost 
energy, which is a key element of the operating 
costs of this business. w e also recognise the 
increasing demand in the former ‘emerging 
markets’ for technically differentiated products 
and processes in areas such as medical devices, 
advanced electronics and aerospace. w e have 
world-leading technology and products in all of 
these areas and already serve these applications 
in the w est. u nder the o ne Morgan structure 
we are leveraging this technological capability in 
these growing, higher margin markets through 
our well-established local presence. w e have 
enjoyed some early successes and see even 
greater opportunity for the future in these 
higher-tech areas. 
During 2013 we have continued to focus hard 
on making improvements to our operating cost 
base. w hilst not the primary reason for the 
o ne Morgan initiative, we have successfully 
realised significant cost benefits as a result of 
the organisational streamlining. Further cost 
benefits have come in 2013 from the full-year 
impact of initiatives undertaken in the second 
half of 2012. w e continue to increase the use 
of our low-cost manufacturing footprint, for 
example, completing the relocation of electrical 
brush manufacturing from the n etherlands to 
Hungary and the cessation of high-temperature 
ceramic fibre manufacturing in high-cost 
Australia, Japan and South Africa, supplying 
these markets instead from our lower cost 
facilities elsewhere in the world. 
As a result of the cost actions taken, combined 
with the positive changes we have made to our 
product mix, we have progressively delivered 
increases in our g roup eBIt A; 1 1.0% in the 
second half of 2012, increasing to 12.0% in the 
first half of 2013 and 12.9% in the second half 
of 2013. t he 2013 full-year eBIt A margin of 
12.4% is an improvement against the 12.0%  
in 2012. 
t he g roup also continued to generate good 
levels of cash and to further reduce the net 
debt position to £186.5 million (2012: £192.8 
million), leaving the g roup with the capability 
to easily finance any appropriate bolt-on 
acquisitions that satisfy our investment criteria. 
t he financial performance and the progress 
made underpins our progressive dividend 
policy and the increase in the final dividend to 
6.7 pence (2012: 6.4 pence), giving a full-year 
dividend of 10.5 pence (2012: 10.0 pence). 
Technology and innovation
w e are an advanced materials g roup and 
world-leading technology and constant 
innovation is at the core of what we do.  
w e have continued to increase our investment 
in r &D in 2013 in both £ and % terms. Spend 
in 2013 was £20.2 million, or 2.1% of sales, 
compared with £19.6 million in 2012 (1.9% of 
sales). t he move to o ne Morgan has provided 
additional impetus to our r &D efforts. w e 
appointed in 2013 a g roup Chief t echnology 
o fficer, whereas in the past this function was 
conducted at the divisional level. His remit  
is to co-ordinate and deploy g roup-wide  
r &D resource on those initiatives that are 
considered to be the highest potential  
growth opportunities for Morgan. examples  
of this include the development of next-
generation low bio-persistent fibres, extending 
the temperature coverage of our Superwool
®
 
Fibre products, and the introduction of 
additional g lobal Materials Centres of 
excellence – these are single locations where 
we consolidate development resource and 
efforts for our major product lines, providing 
critical mass that links effectively with our  
global manufacturing and sales network. 
CHIeF exe Cut IVe o FFICer ’S re VIew
continued 11 Str Ateg IC report
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS  Annu Al report 2013  Annu Al report 2013  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Overview STr ATeGiC 
rep OrT
Dire CTOr S’ 
rep OrT
Fin AnC iAl 
STATemen TS
Our people
I have been delighted with the way in which 
the g roup workforce has embraced the  
new organisational structure. Many have been 
affected by the change in the organisation, 
assuming new responsibilities and working  
in new reporting structures. Such change 
brings with it the challenge of maintaining good 
business continuity and I am delighted with  
the way our employees have risen successfully 
to these challenges. r egrettably, this re-
organisation, along with a number of the  
cost reduction initiatives implemented across 
the g roup, has led to some redundancies.  
I see this as an unfortunate but necessary 
consequence of looking to do the best for  
the g roup as a whole. In such redundancy 
situations we ensure that, in addition to 
complying with local legislation, we seek to 
treat our people with honesty and respect 
throughout the process. As a g roup we 
recognise the importance of developing our 
people. o ne Morgan has further helped in  
this regard, allowing us to take a single, global 
view of the talent in our organisation and how 
we manage their careers across geographies 
and functions to ensure we are developing  
our future leaders. t o support this we have 
increased the scale of our award-winning 
graduate recruitment programme with  
26 new graduates hired in 2013, compared  
to 20 in 2012, and a target to bring in more 
than 30 in 2014. t hese graduates are sourced 
from top universities around the world and  
a significant proportion of them are women, 
providing real diversity. I am pleased to report 
that securing the brightest young minds from 
the best universities across the world is 
providing us with an exciting and growing 
pipeline of real talent for the future. 
looking forward
o ur goal is to deliver sustained profitable 
growth, effectively exploiting our world-leading 
technology and global reach not only to take 
advantage of end-market recovery but most 
importantly to create our own opportunities. 
w e have already actioned a number of our 
portfolio reshaping initiatives to increase  
further our focus on accelerated profitable 
growth underpinned by differentiation and 
technological leadership, and we expect more 
of these portfolio reshaping initiatives to come 
through in 2014. 
t he creation of o ne Morgan, our increased 
investment in innovation and technology and 
the quality of our people leave us increasingly 
well positioned to deliver such growth and 
margin enhancement.
mark r obertshaw
Chief executive o fficer
