  04 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
i am delighted to join the Board as chairman.  
i am grateful to t im Stevenson for helping  
this transition and also for his efforts since  
2006 including leading the Group through  
the economic downturn and positioning  
the business for future growth. i am excited  
by the opportunities that the Group has to 
develop, and i look forward to contributing  
to its future success.
in recent years, great strides have been made 
to simplify the business, most recently in the 
consolidation of the two c eramic Businesses  
in 2010. it is the case that we produce a variety 
of different products for different industrial and 
geographical markets, but there are powerful 
underlying unifying themes. We specialise in 
bringing science and application engineering 
expertise to meet demanding technical 
requirements involving advanced materials,  
and we look to position ourselves in growth 
markets. it has become apparent that we can 
further simplify the business to improve clarity 
at the customer interface, gain benefits from 
innovation across the Group and reduce costs. 
We are therefore re-organising the business  
on a regional basis and sharpening the  
brand identity, as is further explained in  
the chief e xecutive Officer’s review.
t rading conditions were difficult in 2012, 
nevertheless operating profit before one-off 
costs of £122.0 million was the Group’s second 
highest ever. c ash generation was strong  
with a reduction in net debt of £22.6 million 
compared to £20.8 million in 201 1. t his 
reflects the strength of our capabilities and 
being present in growing markets, which  
helped to offset disappointing performance  
in Morgan engineered Materials.
c Hair Man ’S State Ment
t rading conditions were difficult in 2012, 
nevertheless operating profit before 
one-off costs of £122.0 million was  
the Group’s second highest ever.
Andrew Shilston 
chairman Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 05
Dividend
t he Board has decided to set the final dividend 
at 6.4 pence per share. t his is an increase of 
6.7% compared to the final dividend declared 
in 201 1. t his means that the full-year dividend  
is 10.0 pence.
10.0
9.25
7.7
7.0
7.0
Total dividend per share
Pence
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
Outlook
t he macro-economic outlook for 2013 is  
not significantly better than 2012, with global 
imbalances and indebtedness in developed 
countries still weighing on growth. t he changes 
we are announcing to the organisation 
structure will maximise our chances of growing. 
Despite the challenging economic environment 
we continue to invest in new manufacturing 
facilities and research and development and to 
look for bolt-on acquisitions to add capability. 
Board and Governance
i should like to welcome Victoire de Margerie 
to the Board. She has a wealth of operational 
experience across europe in related industries. 
it has been a pleasure to work with Board 
colleagues over the last nine months and  
we all remain committed to the development 
of the Group.
i have visited a number of the Group’s sites 
since i joined the Board and have been 
impressed by the enthusiasm and loyalty to  
the Group of all those i have met. t he Board 
recognises that the quality and commitment  
of our employees is key to future success  
and continues to be grateful for their efforts.
Andrew Shilston 
chairman
