  22 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2011
chie F exec Utive OFF ice R’s Review
Group results
t he Group’s continuing strategy of focusing on 
the right growth markets and the right growth 
geographies with innovative, differentiated, 
added-value products drove revenue and 
operating profit to record levels in 201 1.  
As one of the world’s leading advanced 
materials companies, innovation and 
differentiation in our product offerings are  
the bedrock of our long-term profitable  
growth aspirations. i am therefore very 
encouraged by the success we achieved in  
201 1 in commercialising an increasing number 
of new products and technologies, such as our 
growing range of offerings to renewable energy 
markets, our environmentally friendly range of 
low bio-persistent superwool
®
 high-temperature 
insulating fibres, and our piezoceramic 
components being sold into the hard disk drive 
(hdd ) end-market. each of these new 
products and technologies, along with the 
many others which are highlighted in case 
studies throughout this Annual Report, reflect 
the benefits of the investment in research and 
development, innovation, and differentiation 
that Morgan c rucible has been making over 
recent years. t he strong levels of revenue 
growth in 201 1 are the commercial results of 
seeds planted in previous years now beginning 
to blossom and bear fruit.
Our continued expansion into the dynamic-
growth economies of the world such as china, 
india and l atin America also made significant 
strides in 201 1 with our revenue to non-
w estern world markets growing substantially 
year-on-year, up by nearly 20% versus 2010.  
At the same time, our w estern world 
businesses also delivered good growth  
with revenue to n orth America and europe 
(excluding n P Aerospace) up by 7.5% and 
9.8% respectively. w hilst we strongly believe 
that the true test of a long-term, sustainable, 
high-quality business is one which is able to 
deliver profitable long-term organic top-line 
growth, we are equally committed to a 
mindset of continuous improvement to  
drive year-on-year operational efficiencies.  
As a result, during 201 1 we continued to 
increase our production in low-cost locations 
to improve our unit costs of manufacturing.  
in particular, our three factories in Mexico  
are playing a growing role in the supply of 
products to our markets in the United states 
and increasingly other parts of the world. 
t here have also been some significant 
improvements to our operating efficiencies  
in w estern world plants, most notably in  
the new high-temperature products from  
our Morgan AM&t Business as we ramp-up 
into larger commercial volumes and,  
in doing so, find additional ways to improve  
our manufacturing processes.
Overall therefore, the healthy levels of top-line 
growth achieved in 201 1 allied to continuous 
improvement initiatives on our cost base  
meant that our profit increased substantially, 
with Group underlying PBt up by 58.1% 
compared to 2010.
Divisional highlights
t he Morgan c eramics d ivision had a very 
strong year in 201 1 with reported revenue  
up 12.5% versus 2010 (13.7% on a constant 
currency basis). Both the t echnical and 
t hermal c eramics Businesses registered 
double-digit top-line growth rates with  
excellent performance in the dynamic growth 
economies and healthy growth also in the 
w estern world. t echnical c eramics revenue 
grew by 14.0% (16.1% on a constant currency 
basis) compared to 2010 with t hermal 
c eramics delivering 1 1.4% growth  
(12.2% on a constant currency basis).
i am also pleased to report very good progress 
during 201 1 in realising the benefits of the 
merger of the t echnical c eramics and t hermal 
c eramics Businesses that was announced  
in the summer of 2010. t his was undertaken 
with the aim of increasing the potential top-line 
growth rate of each business through 
leveraging their respective strengths: that of 
t hermal c eramics’ deep and well-established 
presence in the dynamic growth economies 
and that of t echnical c eramics in identifying 
distinctive advanced material competencies  
in secular growth, higher margin end-markets. 
Revenue growth initiatives are by their  
nature focused on a medium- to longer-term 
timeframe but the early signs are encouraging 
from both Businesses. For example, we have 
now put in place dedicated t echnical c eramics 
sales and application engineering expertise into 
t hermal c eramics locations around the world 
to open up new potential geographic markets 
in both Asia and l atin America, with a resultant 
i am pleased to report that 201 1 was  
a record breaking year of revenue and 
operating profit for the Group.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Mark Robertshaw Chief Executive Officer Annual Report 2011  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 23
increase in the flow of new business prospects 
coming into our pipeline. On the t hermal 
c eramics side, significant progress has been 
made in our strategy and plans for global  
high-temperature insulating fibre products. 
Fibre products represent some 20% of total 
Group revenue and i am delighted to say  
that our efforts in research and development  
now mean that we are have a full range of  
low bio-persistent fibres (superwool
®
 products)  
to offer to the market. w e believe that the 
environmentally friendly credentials of the  
new superwool
®
 range combined with their 
technical performance leave us well-placed  
to deliver profitable growth in this important 
business area over the coming years.
t he cost synergies of the d ivisional merger 
– which relate primarily to shared management 
and administration costs – have been delivered 
as planned during the year with circa £6 million 
of benefits in 201 1 which we anticipate will  
rise to a full-year benefit of £8 million pa from 
2012 onwards.
Another highlight of the year in the Morgan 
c eramics d ivision has been the successful 
commercial ramp-up of our hard disk drive 
(hdd ) business. t he operational demands of 
such a significant step-up in volumes have been 
handled admirably by the t echnical c eramics 
team with excellent global co-ordination of 
production activities both in n orth America 
and Asia. Revenue from this product increased 
from circa £6 million in 2010 to over  
£15 million in 201 1 and we are optimistic  
about further revenue growth potential in  
this business during 2012.
t he combination of strong top-line growth 
allied to the benefits of cost reduction initiatives 
mean that d ivisional eBit A for the Morgan 
c eramics d ivision increased by 34.7% from 
£68.8 million to £92.7 million, with d ivisional 
eBit A margin improving from 1 1.3% to 13.5%. 
d ivisional eBit A for the t echnical c eramics 
Business was up 26.8% from £34.0 million  
to £43.1 million with the d ivisional eBit A 
margin improving from 13.6% to 15.1%. 
t hermal c eramics’ d ivisional eBit A  
was up by 42.5% from £34.8 million to  
£49.6 million with operating profit margin 
improving from 9.7% to 12.4%.
t he Morgan engineered Materials d ivision  
also delivered good d ivisional eBit A margin 
progression during the year from 1 1.2%  
in 2010 to 13.4% in 201 1. in this d ivision,  
the top-line growth was 1.9% (2.8% on a 
constant currency basis) as the anticipated 
reduction in Ministry of d efence spending  
on personal and vehicle ballistic protection 
following the surge of troops and equipment 
into Afghanistan during 2007 to 2009 was 
continued from 2010 into 201 1. As a result,  
n P Aerospace, which provides ballistic 
protections solutions into this market,  
saw revenue decline from £120.9 million in 
2010 to £93.0 million in 201 1. encouragingly 
our initiatives to take n P Aerospace’s 
differentiated, light-weight vehicle armour 
solutions to international markets made 
progress during the year. h aving established  
an n P Aerospace office in the Us A in the 
summer of 2010 n P Aerospace won a first 
prototype order for vehicle armour in the  
early part of 201 1 which was then successfully 
converted into a full production order later  
in the year for delivery in the first half of 2012. 
w hilst only small scale at this point, this first 
production order reinforces our view that  
n P Aerospace has an attractive range of 
technologies and solutions with commercial 
potential well beyond the traditional UK market.
t he rest of the Morgan AM&t Business 
delivered healthy revenue growth in 201 1,  
up 1 1.9% versus 2010 at reported rates  
(13.1% on a constant currency basis). t he most 
notable driver of this was strong performance 
from our growing range of carbon-graphite 
insulating materials for high-temperature 
applications such as photovoltaic and led 
processing markets. sales into these markets 
have benefited from significant research and 
development initiatives to develop innovative, 
differentiated products that set industry-leading 
levels of performance in terms of their energy 
efficiency and purity characteristics. As a result, 
sales of high-temperature products increased 
from circa £12 million in 2010 to circa  
£27 million in 201 1. As production levels have 
ramped up in the high-temperature business 
we have been able to drive operational 
improvements in our manufacturing processes 
to improve yields and reduce our unit costs  
of production. elsewhere the Morgan AM&t 
Business has continued to increase the use  
of low-cost manufacturing locations which  
has also had a beneficial impact on our 
operating costs.
t he combination of robust revenue growth 
allied to the cost efficiencies has driven strong 
d ivisional eBit A margin progression from 
9.0% in 2010 to 12.7% in 201 1 for Morgan 
AM&t excluding n P Aerospace with eBit A 
increasing 58.4% over the period from  
£22.1 million to £35.0 million.
similarly strong performance has also been 
delivered in the Molten Metal systems (MMs) 
Business, where revenue increased 15.9% 
year-on-year (17.6% at constant currency)  
with good growth across all regions with the 
Asian businesses performing particularly well. 
MMs d ivisional eBit A improved 22.2% from 
£6.3 million to £7.7 million with d ivisional 
eBit A margins rising from 15.6% in 2010 to 
16.5% in 201 1.
Looking forward
t he macroeconomic outlook as we enter  
2012 remains uncertain, particularly with the 
on-going risks to the eurozone and indeed the 
global economy due to sovereign debt issues  
in several countries. h owever we believe  
that, unless there is a major and pronounced 
global downturn, Morgan c rucible remains 
well-placed in 2012 to make further progress 
against the three-year financial goals that we 
announced in early 201 1. w e have an exciting 
pipeline of innovative, differentiated new 
products and technologies. w e have a strong 
and growing presence in the dynamic growth 
economies of the world. Above all we have  
a talented and committed workforce around 
the world who have shown themselves to be 
nimble, imaginative and tenacious in driving  
the Group’s business forward once more in 
201 1. i would like to take this opportunity to 
thank them all for their efforts in making 201 1  
a record-breaking year of revenue and 
operating profit and know they will be equal  
to the challenge of trying to make our 2012 
performance even better once again.
Mark Robertshaw
c hief executive Officer
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
