 Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 14
Chairman’s statement
I am delighted to report 
another successful year 
for Morgan Crucible. Our 
performance demonstrates 
the success of our focused 
strategy to be a world-leading 
advanced materials company.
Tim Stevenson
Chairman Overview
I am delighted to report that 2008 was 
another successful year for Morgan Crucible 
despite an economic environment which 
has proved to be increasingly difﬁcult. 
This performance clearly demonstrates 
the successful implementation of our vision 
to be a world-leading advanced materials 
company. The ﬁve strategic priorities 
highlighted in the Group CEO’s report 
which underpin this vision are being 
rigorously implemented across our three 
Divisions with demonstrable success. The 
formula is one which is transforming the 
nature of Morgan’s business. The Board 
believes that this will stand your Company 
in good stead for the difﬁcult economic 
circumstances that surely lie ahead of us 
in 2009 and potentially beyond. 
The Group beneﬁts from many years of 
investment in customer-focused research 
and development and in global manufacturing 
capability. From this customer-centric 
approach, we have continued to build 
on our strong technological and market 
positions. Selected examples are included 
in the case studies on the preceding pages. 
Governance
Financial statements
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008
Overview
Business review 15
Acquisitions 
Both of the acquisitions we announced 
in 2007 – the technical ceramics businesses 
of Carpenter Technology Corporation 
and our initial 49% stake in NP Aerospace – 
performed extremely well in 2008, ahead 
of our expectations at the point of purchase. 
The complex task of integrating the former 
Carpenter businesses into our Technical 
Ceramics Division has been carried out with 
great commitment and efﬁciency. Together 
these two acquisitions represent an 
important part of the strategy of moving 
Morgan into higher growth, higher margin 
and less economically cyclical markets. I am 
also delighted to report that, since the year 
end, we have increased our stake in NP 
Aerospace to 60%. This additional stake will 
help further accelerate plans to realise the full 
potential of the combined NP Aerospace and 
Morgan Crucible businesses in the armour 
systems market. 
Board 
Our non-executive Directors play a vital role 
in the governance of the Company and a 
key measure of the success of the Board is 
its ability to add real value to the work of 
the executive team. As I announced in my 
statement last year, Joe MacHale retired 
from the Board following the AGM held 
on 18 April 2008. Joe joined the Board in 
2003 and made an invaluable contribution 
to the strategic development of the Group 
both as Chairman of the Audit Committee 
and Senior Independent Director. Following 
Joe’s retirement Andrew Given became 
Chairman of the Audit Committee and 
Martin Flower was appointed as Senior 
Independent Director. 
This year’s appraisal of the effectiveness of 
the Board, reported on later in this Annual 
Report, demonstrated that it is working 
effectively. Of particular importance is the 
effort to ensure that a number of our 
Board meetings each year involve visits to 
operations in different parts of the world, 
giving the Board both real insight into 
the business, and exposure to senior 
management. 
Dividend
The Board has proposed a ﬁnal dividend 
of 4.5 pence per Ordinary share. This brings 
the total dividend for the year to 7.0 pence 
(2007: 6.75 pence) and reﬂects the Board’s 
conﬁdence in the ﬁnancial health of 
Morgan Crucible.
People 
In my second year as Chairman, I have 
continued the process of visiting Morgan 
sites and meeting as many of our people 
as I can. Again I have been impressed by the 
consistent quality of our senior, middle and 
junior management; their understanding 
of our businesses and the markets in which 
they operate, and their commitment to the 
success of the Group. In particular, we are 
proud to have many employees who have 
worked for the business for many years – 
in 2008 we celebrated 20 further staff 
achieving 40 years of service with Morgan 
Crucible. We make particular effort to 
ensure the cross-fertilisation of experience 
across and within Divisions, and to keep 
senior employees abreast of developments 
in the business as a whole. 
I would like to extend my personal thanks 
to all of the Group’s employees for their 
dedication and energy in driving the business 
forward in 2008 such that we enter 2009 
having made further signiﬁcant progress 
towards our vision of being one of the world’ s 
very best advanced materials companies with 
the aim of creating long-term superior 
shareholder value. 
Tim Stevenson
Chairman
* Based on proﬁt after tax and minority interest, before 
amortisation of intangible assets.
Underlying earnings per share*
pence 
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
23.4
19.7
13.3
18.6
(21.7)
