 Overview
Financial statements
Governance
Business review
32 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  
 Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Group results
The Group’s well-established strategy  
of reducing our exposure to economically 
cyclical, more commoditised markets has 
served us well. Operating profit margin 
before restructuring and one-off items  
in 2009 was a highly creditable 9.4%.  
The performance of the NP Aerospace 
business in particular merits highlighting, 
having achieved stellar results in 2009  
with revenues of £186.2 million (compared 
to £72.0 million in 2008) and operating 
profit of £28.8 million (compared to  
£10.7 million in 2008). This is primarily 
attributable to significant business with  
the UK Ministry of Defence in providing 
high-specification vehicle and personal 
ballistic protection solutions. 
Given the challenging market environment, 
we have kept a tight and rigorous focus on 
cash generation and on the health of our 
balance sheet throughout the year. Our 
five-year banking facilities, which were 
coming to the end of their term in 2009, 
were successfully renewed in the first quarter 
during a period of significant uncertainty for 
the world’s banking system. The fact that  
we were able to bring two new banks into 
our syndicate of lenders at a time of such 
turbulence in financial markets was a very 
pleasing endorsement of the strength and 
resilience of your Group. Furthermore, I am 
pleased to report that we ended 2009 having 
successfully maintained our position on the 
key net debt to EBITDA financial covenant at 
2.1 times, which is exactly where we were at 
the end of last year. This is having purchased 
a further 11% stake in NP Aerospace to 
move us to a majority equity holding of 
60%. We are also in a position of being able  
to recommend a full-year dividend in line 
with the prior year.
I am extremely proud of 
what Morgan Crucible has 
achieved in 2009 against  
a backdrop of the most 
difficult market environment 
for industrial companies  
for many decades.
Mark Robertshaw
Chief Executive Officer Overview
Financial statements
Governance
Business review
33 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  
 Annual Report 2009
Divisional highlights
All of the Group’s Divisions have shown 
pleasing resilience during this period of 
pronounced global recession, with each 
delivering sound profit levels in 2009.  
I have already commented on the excellent 
performance of NP Aerospace in its maiden 
set of figures as a majority-owned Morgan 
Crucible business. 
The Technical Ceramics Division also 
deserves special mention for delivering 
£25.1 million of Divisional EBITA before 
restructuring and one-off costs, 
representing an operating profit margin 
of 12.2%. Revenues were £206.0 million 
(compared to £212.2 million in 2008), 
driven by the Division’s increasing exposure 
to more secular growth markets, with our 
medical business performing especially  
well. The integration of the businesses we 
acquired from the Carpenter Technology 
Corporation in 2008 was delivered 
successfully to plan. 
The Insulating Ceramics Division has also 
demonstrated a much improved resilience  
of operating profit margins compared to 
previous downturns, achieving 8.0% in 
2009. The Division’s strong and increasing 
business presence in emerging-market 
economies including China, India and Latin 
America helped offset the weakness of 
western-world economies. Good progress 
was also made in the Division’s operating 
efficiencies driven by the Thermal Ceramics 
‘World Class Manufacturing’ programme.
The Carbon Division, excluding NP 
Aerospace, arguably had the most difficult 
environment of our Divisions in 2009 with 
market downturns in core industrial markets 
combined with demand slowdowns in 
newer end-markets such as solar and US 
body armour. Nevertheless, the business 
made a respectable profit contribution in 
2009, with an encouraging pick-up in orders 
seen in the latter part of the year.
One area where all of our businesses did an 
excellent job during the course of the year 
was in aligning their cost bases with prevailing 
demand levels. Their decisive actions during  
a period of pronounced economic downturn 
were a key factor in your Group weathering 
this difficult environment so robustly. I would 
like to extend a personal thank-you to all  
our employees for their commitment and 
individual contributions towards making  
this happen.
Looking forward
Even though we have seen some degree  
of recovery in many end-markets in the 
latter part of 2009, our expectation is that 
the demand environment is likely to remain 
challenging and will certainly be unpredictable. 
The deep global recession of 2009 was a 
thorough test of our strategy and business 
model, which have stood up to this stern 
examination in a pleasing manner. 
Looking to the future, I am therefore 
confident that Morgan Crucible is emerging 
from the downturn as a stronger, more 
resilient business which is well placed to 
capitalise on opportunities as 2010 develops. 
