  06 The Morgan Crucible Company plc  Annual Report 2012
cH ieF eXecutiV e OFFicer ’S re VieW
Group results
Following the Group’s record results in 201 1, 
our 2012 performance, whilst still amongst  
one of the best in Morgan c rucible’s 156-year 
history, was impacted by a much more difficult 
macro-economic environment. t he eurozone 
countries slipped back into recession, growth  
in the u S economy was subdued and even  
the dynamic growth economies, such as china, 
india and Brazil, all struggled relative to their 
performance of recent years. We at Morgan 
c rucible were not immune from the global 
turbulence of 2012 with Group revenue at 
£1,007.5 million down 8.5% versus 201 1 
(£1,101.0 million) and profit from operations 
before one-off and restructuring costs at 
£122.0 million (201 1: £143.4 million) down 
14.9%. t his overall Group performance was  
a reflection of a good year from the c eramics 
Division offset by a disappointing one from  
the engineered Materials Division. t he Group’s 
operating cashflow was strong once again  
with c.£50 million of free cash flow before 
acquisitions and dividends enabling the  
Board to increase the final dividend by  
over 6% whilst delivering a reduction  
in 2012 year end net debt levels to  
£192.8 million (201 1: £215.4 million).
Divisional summary
t he c eramics Division performed well in  
the more difficult economic environment with 
an increase in year-on-year Divisional eBita  
of £1.9 million on revenue which was slightly 
down on 201 1’s record levels (down 1.9% 
year-on-year on a constant currency basis and 
3.6% at reported rates). c eramics’ Divisional 
eBita margin (before any one-off or 
restructuring costs) improved from 13.5%  
in 201 1 to 14.3% in 2012.
t he key drivers of this encouraging 
improvement in Divisional eBita margin  
were an increasing proportion of our business 
coming from higher margin product areas 
combined with ongoing improvements  
to our operating cost base.
a s one of the world’s leading advanced 
materials groups we have a portfolio  
of exciting, innovative, differentiated  
new products and technologies.
Mark Robertshaw 
c hief executive Officer Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Annual Report 2012  The Morgan Crucible Company plc 07
We continued to make good progress in our 
high-temperature insulating fibre business and 
in particular the global rollout of our range of 
low bio-persistent fibres (Superwool
®
 fibre 
products). High-temperature insulating fibre  
is the Group’s single biggest product category 
representing close to 25% of total Group 
revenue. Our Superwool
®
 range of  
high-temperature insulating fibres accounted 
for 37% of these fibre sales up from 34%  
in 201 1 as we progressively convert over our 
fibre production capacity to be able to produce 
our differentiated and patent-protected 
Superwool
®
 products. a s i indicated in last 
year’s a nnual r eport we continue to believe 
that the environmentally friendly properties  
of the new Superwool
®
 range combined  
with their technical performance leave us 
well-placed to deliver profitable growth in this 
important business area over the coming years.
From a geographic perspective, the c eramics 
Division delivered particularly strong 
performance in the n orth a merican region 
which achieved record levels of revenue and 
profit in 2012. in addition to the rollout of 
Superwool
®
 fibre in this region, we also saw 
good profit growth from our aerospace related 
applications, such as the Morgan c ertech 
businesses, where we are the global number 
one provider of ceramic cores used in the 
manufacture of turbine blades.
t he c eramics manufacturing footprint 
continued to be streamlined with the closure  
of one of our facilities in n ew Jersey as 
production was relocated to other larger sites 
in the u S and lower cost operations in Mexico, 
and with the announced closure of a t hermal 
c eramics site in a ustralia, with production 
being relocated to lower cost locations in a sia.
t he performance of the engineered Materials 
Division was disappointing in 2012 with 
revenue of £347.0 million, down 15.2% at 
constant currency (16.5% at reported rates), 
and Divisional eBita down by more than 40% 
compared to 201 1, as the softening of general 
industrial demand was exacerbated by the 
marked reduction in our business into 
high-margin renewable energy and defence 
applications. t his impacted both the a dvanced 
Materials & t echnology and np a erospace 
businesses and in both we made significant 
reductions in the cost and headcount base to 
reflect the lower levels of demand. t his has 
included the announced closure or downsizing 
of a number of sites, particularly in c ontinental 
europe. Our goal is to have an operating cost 
base in these businesses which can deliver at  
or close to mid-teen operating profit margins  
at current demand levels. t he highlight of the 
engineered Materials Division in 2012 was the 
performance of the Molten Metal Systems 
business which grew revenue by 4.8%  
on a constant currency basis (a reduction  
of 1.9% at reported rates) with eBita 
increasing to £8.1 million (£7.7 million in 201 1) 
representing an eBita margin of 17.7%  
(2011: 16.5%). 
Changes to the Group’s  
organisation structure
a t the same time as the release of 2012 
full-year results, we have also announced  
a new management structure which sees  
the Group organised on a regional basis.  
t his change is consistent with our direction  
of travel in the past several years to present  
our customers and markets with a single, 
unified ‘One Morgan’ set of products and 
technologies. We believe that this leaves us 
better placed to exploit growth opportunities 
both geographically and by end-market,  
through more fully leveraging the breadth  
of our geographic and market access. it will  
also improve our operational cost efficiency 
through opportunities to further streamline  
our overhead and fixed cost base. t he three 
regions: n orth a merica, europe and a sia/ 
r est of World, will report to a ndrew Hosty, 
who moves from being ce O of the c eramics 
Division to become the chief Operating 
Officer of the Group. Don Klas, ce O of the 
engineered Materials Division, after helping 
work through the transition to the new model, 
will leave the Group after over 30 years with 
Morgan c rucible and i would like to take this 
opportunity to thank him for his commitment 
and service and to wish him well for the future.
in conjunction with the change to the 
organisational model, i am also pleased to 
announce that the Group will be renamed 
Morgan a dvanced Materials plc which we 
believe is a better and more appropriate 
descriptor of the breadth and depth of the 
technologies and capabilities which we bring  
to our customers.
Looking forward
t he macro-economic environment was more 
difficult in 2012 and we do not expect this to 
improve materially in 2013. We anticipate that 
european markets will remain challenging as 
austerity driven policies continue to impact 
demand and business confidence levels.  
t he interconnectedness of global markets 
means that we will likely also see some degree 
of impact on business levels in the a mericas 
and a sia. in this environment, our focus 
remains on self-help actions rather than relying 
on positive market conditions which may  
or may not transpire. a s one of the world’s 
leading advanced materials groups we have a 
portfolio of exciting, innovative, differentiated 
new products and technologies. We also have 
a truly global presence with market-leading 
positions. a bove all we have a talented and 
committed workforce around the world  
who have shown themselves once again  
to be nimble, imaginative and tenacious in the 
uncertain and fluid market conditions of 2012.  
i would like to take this opportunity to thank 
them all for their efforts in 2012 and for their 
commitment to ongoing excellence in all that 
we do in 2013 and beyond.
Mark Robertshaw
c hief executive Officer
