 08
2011 has seen a resilient performance 
from the Group, delivering results in  
line with our expectations consistently 
over the past 12 months despite 
demanding market conditions.
The Group’s results are testament  
to our straightforward approach  
to construction and regeneration.  
This is underpinned by our relentless 
focus on quality through the rigorous 
application of our own Perfect Delivery 
programme and the creative and 
innovative approach we bring  
to projects.
Strategy for success
For a number of years the Group’s goal has been 
to create leading positions in our chosen sectors 
and we continue to make signiﬁcant progress 
towards that goal. We measure our performance 
by the quality of our margin, not necessarily by 
the size of a project and we achieve a premium 
margin by providing our clients with an 
exceptional service.
Achieving success in today’s market means 
staying focused on what we do best within the 
sectors we know well. We deﬁne success in a 
number of ways, from achieving quality margin 
and growing the business proﬁtably through to 
being nominated the partner of choice, selected 
as the preferred employer and considered a 
responsible and forward-thinking group. 
We have achieved success this year, through 
winning key construction opportunities in 
growth areas of the market, namely energy, 
transport and commercial as well as growing  
our regeneration pipeline of work by securing 
ﬁve major schemes together valued at £0.8bn.
“Our strategy to maintain 
our construction market 
position and grow our 
regeneration pipeline 
will allow us to capitalise 
on the signiﬁcant 
opportunities that 
undoubtedly exist in  
the UK. We enter the 
new ﬁnancial year in  
a strong position to 
deliver sustained  
long-term value for  
our shareholders  
and clients.”
Looking ahead, our strategic focus is to develop 
our market position across our construction 
activities and to use the cash generated from 
those operations to invest in, and grow, our 
regeneration-related businesses. We continue  
to broaden our capability and service to our 
clients through the Group’s ability to deliver 
large-scale complex projects and believe our 
chosen markets offer the best prospects for 
quality margin in our industry and the greatest 
potential for revenue growth.
Enabling growth
The breadth of our skills extends across a wide 
range of sectors where we have built leading 
reputations and this enables us to be ﬂexible in 
our approach and to target those sectors that 
offer the most growth potential.
Our extensive capability in Construction  
and Infrastructure, Fit Out, Affordable Housing 
and Urban Regeneration, underpinned by 
Investments’ ability to offer ﬁnancing solutions, 
allows us to reduce project complexities  
and optimise opportunities for our clients  
and partners.
Working in partnership to deliver regeneration
There is an acute need to promote economic 
improvement and social inclusion alongside 
regenerating the physical fabric of many of  
our towns and cities and the Group remains 
conﬁdent in the prospects offered by this 
market, driven by the release of land by the 
public sector. Regeneration is all about working 
in long-term partnerships with our clients, using 
their land assets to achieve large-scale social  
and economic renewal.
The public sector owns an estimated £17bn 
portfolio of surplus land and property assets.  
In a market with diminishing in-house expertise 
and an increasing reliance on private sector 
funding to progress critical regeneration 
Chairman’s statement
John Morgan
Executive Chairman
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Chairman’s statement 09
schemes, our ability to provide creative  
funding solutions, along with our development 
and construction expertise, positions us as an 
attractive regeneration partner and provides  
us with signiﬁcant investment opportunities in 
the medium and long term.
Our people
I spend much of my time visiting our offices  
and projects and I am always impressed with  
the calibre and integrity of our people across  
all levels. Their talent, commitment and positive 
approach are integral to the success of the 
Group. We remain committed to their well-being 
at all times and will continue to invest in their 
personal and professional development and to 
motivate and incentivise them appropriately.
The Board
I am also grateful to the members of the Board 
whose stewardship and guidance contribute 
greatly to the performance of the Group. Gill 
Barr, one of our independent non-executive 
directors, is standing down at the forthcoming 
AGM in 2012. I would like to take this opportunity 
to thank Gill for her substantial contribution to 
the Group over the past seven years.
Dividend statement
The Board recommends a ﬁnal dividend  
of 30.0p payable on 18 May 2012, giving  
an unchanged total dividend for the fourth 
consecutive year of 42.0p for 2011.
Looking forward
We recognise that market challenges and risks 
remain and will continue to impact the year 
ahead and we believe that the medium-term 
outlook is more promising. We have positioned 
the Group to maximise opportunities in those 
sectors we believe will offer the most growth 
and reward. We continue to closely monitor our 
cost base, shape the divisions and tailor the way 
we work to respond to changes in the market. 
Our decentralised business model and lack  
of bureaucracy enable us to respond swiftly  
to shifts in economic and operating conditions, 
ensuring we remain alive to opportunities.
We entered the new year clear in our vision  
and our strategic direction. With a stable 
forward order book of £3.4bn and, importantly, 
a growing regeneration pipeline of £1.8bn, we 
are conﬁdent that we are in a strong position to 
capitalise on future opportunities and to deliver 
sustained long-term value for our shareholders 
and clients.
John Morgan
Executive Chairman 
21 February 2012
Dividend pence
42.0p
2011 42.0
2010 42.0
2009 42.0
Directors’ report: business review 02–44 Directors’ report: governance 45–66 Shareholder information 123–124 Financial statements 67–122
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Chairman’s statement
