 10
The Group delivered in 2011 in the face 
of challenging economic conditions 
and ongoing constraints in public 
spending. We remain in a strong 
ﬁnancial position and have strategically 
positioned the Group to take advantage 
of the signiﬁcant opportunities that 
exist in the UK.
Revenue was up by 6% to £2,227m (2010: 
£2,102m) with proﬁt before tax, amortisation  
and non-recurring items of £45.3m (2010: 
£51.3m), reﬂecting the challenging market 
conditions. £1.4m (2010: £3.2m) of non-recurring 
items arose, as expected, relating to IT costs 
following the merger of the Construction and 
Infrastructure Services divisions in 2010. Proﬁt 
before tax was £40.0m (2010: £40.7m). An 
analysis of other prior year non-recurring items  
is included in note 2. Adjusted earnings per  
share before amortisation of intangible assets, 
non-recurring items and one-off tax beneﬁt 
were 82.5p (2010: 92.9p). The Group’s 
continuing investment in regeneration, increase 
in investment properties and use of shared 
equity to support open market house sales has 
been reﬂected in our average cash† for 2011 
being lower than in 2010 at £23m (2010: £63m).
Success across the board
Each division has achieved wide-ranging success 
throughout the year, demonstrating not only its 
specialist skills but also the strength and the 
value of the Group’s integrated capability. 2011 
saw higher levels of collaboration between the 
Group’s divisions than ever before. Projects that 
demonstrate the success and value of divisions 
working together include the completion, on 
time and on budget, of the Basildon Sporting 
Village. Working within a 25-year agreement 
with Basildon Borough Council, our Investments 
division provided a funding solution and 
development expertise, whilst design and 
construction services were provided by our 
Construction and Infrastructure division. Another 
example of our integrated approach is Urban 
Regeneration’s 56-acre, £300m Northshore 
development in Stockton-on-Tees which will 
“We have strategically 
positioned the Group to 
adapt to the challenging 
business environment. 
We are conﬁdent that 
our increased investment 
in regeneration and our 
focus on growth sectors 
of the market will lead to 
higher quality medium-
term returns.”
transform Stockton’s Riverside by delivering 
1.8m sq ft of offices, leisure and retail 
accommodation in addition to high quality 
housing. The ﬁrst phase is currently on site with 
our Affordable Housing division working with 
colleagues in Urban Regeneration to build 50 
energy-efficient affordable houses.
Construction and Infrastructure has performed 
in line with our expectations despite operating 
within a very competitive and challenging 
market place. With revenue slightly increased  
at £1,268m (2010: £1,250m) and operating 
proﬁt* of £21.1m (2010: £26.9m), it has further 
reinforced its market-leading positions in 
tunnelling and aviation and substantially 
strengthened its leading reputation in the  
rail, highways and energy markets. Notable 
achievements include securing major contracts 
in each of these growth infrastructure sectors as 
well as considerable success in being awarded 
new and renewed positions on some of the  
UK’s major construction frameworks. An 
example of which is the division’s appointment 
as preferred bidder, in joint venture, for an 
electricity transmission overhead line partnership 
worth up to £500m to deliver National Grid’s 
overhead line construction programme for the 
next ﬁve years. It entered the new ﬁnancial year 
with a healthy pipeline of opportunities in key 
sectors of the infrastructure market.
Fit Out has delivered another consistent 
performance for the Group. The division has 
grown market share in tough trading conditions 
with revenue increasing to £438m (2010: £415m), 
with work secured via frameworks doubling. 
Operating proﬁt* was £12.4m (2010: £14.8m).  
It has responded to market constraints by 
launching a new technology division to capitalise 
on existing skill sets and to respond to the needs 
of clients who are actively seeking an extended 
service to deliver infrastructure, data centre  
and technology-led projects. Growth markets 
identiﬁed for the new ﬁnancial year include retail 
banking, technology and the education sector 
where the division continues to work with 
universities under pressure to improve facilities 
to attract students.
Chief Executive’s review
Paul Smith
Chief Executive
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Chief Executive’s review 11
Affordable Housing has swiftly capitalised on 
the wider business opportunities resulting from 
the successful integration of the Connaught 
business. It has exploited its full service capability 
with revenue increasing signiﬁcantly to £462m 
(2010: £387m) and secured growth in operating 
proﬁt* to £18.5m (2010: £16.1m). Its strengthened 
service offering has led to an agreement with 
Barnet Homes, worth approximately £103m over 
10 years, to deliver planned refurbishment and 
electrical work across the London Borough of 
Barnet’s 15,000-home portfolio. Its increased 
capability to provide nationwide reactive 
maintenance services, alongside its planned 
maintenance and design and build of mixed-
tenure affordable housing, has provided a strong 
platform for continuing success in 2012.
Urban Regeneration has increased its 
contribution to the Group this year with 
operating proﬁt* almost doubling to £3.9m 
(2010: £2.0m), underpinning our conﬁdence in 
the regeneration market. It has secured ﬁve 
major new schemes, substantially increased its 
regeneration pipeline to £1.6bn (2010: £1.4bn), 
with a further £0.6bn at preferred developer 
stage, and has increased its level of on site 
activity. The division is successfully positioning 
schemes to capitalise on opportunities as market 
conditions improve.
Investments has achieved notable success in 
2011 facilitating project development, primarily  
in the public sector by providing ﬂexible ﬁnancial 
solutions and development expertise. Despite 
limited opportunities the division has been 
successful in securing a £500m, 20-year 
development agreement with Bournemouth 
Borough Council and commenced the second 
tranche of schools within Hull City Council’s 
Building Schools for the Future programme. The 
directors’ valuation of its investment portfolio 
has increased signiﬁcantly to £49m (2010: £41m) 
providing sustained long-term value for the 
Group. We will recycle capital from maturing 
investments from time to time and recently sold 
our interest in the Dorset Fire & Rescue PFI for 
£3.8m, which was above our directors’ valuation.
An increased focus on regeneration
We are already leading a number of complex 
regeneration programmes across the country 
through our Investments, Urban Regeneration 
and Affordable Housing divisions. They are all 
working in long-term partnerships with the 
private and public sectors, unlocking land values 
for our clients and helping to regenerate 
deprived neighbourhoods across the country.
The ability of the Group to maximise 
regeneration opportunities today was 
strengthened by the acquisition of the Amec 
construction business and developments 
division in 2007. At the time we stated that the 
acquisition would open up signiﬁcant growth 
opportunities. Having strategically shaped the 
Group since then and with signiﬁcant growth 
achieved in our regeneration pipeline, currently 
standing at £1.8bn, we are now in a strong 
position to capitalise on future opportunities  
and secure organic growth in this market.
We intend to build on successes achieved to 
date and increase our focus on this market, 
allowing the Group to beneﬁt from the quality of 
returns available through medium- to long-term 
urban and residential regeneration programmes. 
The continuing reluctance of banks to lend has 
led to the forced withdrawal of many players 
from the marketplace, resulting in a less 
competitive environment. Barriers to entry are 
high and the skill sets required are a perfect ﬁt 
with the Group’s specialist expertise.
The decision to invest more signiﬁcantly in 
regeneration will create opportunities for all 
Group divisions. It will have an impact on our 
level of cash reserves but we are conﬁdent that 
our business model, which limits open market 
site acquisition and uses working capital more 
efficiently in phased developments, will ensure 
that the Group and its shareholders will beneﬁt 
from the opportunity to secure healthy, long-
term and sustainable proﬁt streams.
.
Proﬁt before tax amortisation 
and non-recurring items £m
£45.3m
2011 45.3
2010 51.3
2009 51.5
Proﬁt before tax £m
£40.0m
2011 40.0
2010 40.7
2009 44.7
Directors’ report: business review 02–44 Directors’ report: governance 45–66 Shareholder information 123–124 Financial statements 67–122
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Chief Executive’s review
Revenue £m
£2,227m
2011 2,227
2010 2,102
2009 2,214 12
Chief Executive’s review
continued
How we differentiate ourselves
Today’s challenging environment requires 
organisations to be insightful and agile.  
Two distinctive values of the Group are its 
decentralised structure and its culture of 
empowerment which permeates each division. 
This culture is a real strength. It stimulates 
innovation and creativity, minimises bureaucracy 
and provides each division with a signiﬁcant 
competitive advantage. It requires divisions to 
acquire a deep understanding of their markets, 
to develop specialist skills to provide an exact ﬁt 
with market requirements and allows swift 
decision making. This means our clients work 
with empowered local teams, who offer a 
richness of local knowledge, an awareness of 
client needs and are able to provide a highly 
responsive service using local supply chains.
We aim to deliver an exceptional and consistent 
quality service to our construction clients and 
regeneration partners. Throughout the Group 
we continue to differentiate our service offering 
through our relentless pursuit of Perfect Delivery 
across all construction activity and through the 
provision of market-leading client experiences. 
Clients have demonstrated the value of this 
investment in quality through long-term 
relationships and the award of new and  
renewed framework positions.
Clients are demanding a wider range of skills, 
increasingly aggregated into larger and more 
complex contracts, and a more sophisticated 
service. We have continued to broaden and 
deepen our range of services to meet these 
requirements to ensure that we are able to take 
on the most challenging schemes and reduce 
complexity for our clients.
Committed to providing a safe working 
environment
Providing a safe working environment for 
everyone remains our number one priority.  
This commitment stretches from the workplace, 
through to construction sites and beyond  
into the communities where we operate.  
We endeavour to ensure that through proper 
training and education our staff are fully 
engaged and involved in improving safety and 
that everyone understands the part they play  
in their own safety and that of their co-workers, 
our supply chains and the wider community. 
We are disappointed to report that the total 
number of incidents being reported under the 
Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous 
Occurrences Regulations (‘RIDDOR’) has risen 
to 96 from 82 in 2010. These are incidents over 
three days, which is measured by the time that  
an injury prevents a person performing their 
normal work duties. Ten of these incidents 
related to former Connaught employees.  
In the past we have experienced similar trends 
following an acquisition. We expect health and 
safety to improve as we have made a signiﬁcant 
investment in health and safety training for all 
staff that joined us from Connaught. We have 
introduced an additional health and safety  
Key Performance Indicator (‘KPI’) within our 
Roadmap for Sustainability, which is all incidents 
over one day. 2011 has been the ﬁrst year we 
have collected this data and there were 81 
one-to-three day incidents and we will use  
this ﬁgure as our baseline for future reporting  
of this KPI.
Deﬁning our business through sustainability 
As a leading construction and regeneration 
Group, we play a signiﬁcant role in creating and 
improving the built environment that we live in. 
With this role comes responsibility. For the 
people who work with us, the communities  
we operate within and the impact we have  
on the environment.
For many years our divisions have entrenched 
sustainability into their individual operations.  
2011 has been marked by the Group further 
reinforcing our pledge to provide positive and 
lasting economic, environmental and social  
gain through the launch of our Roadmap  
for Sustainability.
The Roadmap outlines key areas of strategic 
improvement where we believe we can make  
a real difference and, equally importantly, 
identiﬁes targets, milestones and long-term 
objectives together with key performance 
indicators. The Board and each of the  
Group’s ﬁve divisions are fully committed  
to the Roadmap. 
RIDDOR incidents No.
96
2011 96
2010 82
2009 113
Perfect Delivery scores %
84
2011 84
2010 83
2009 84
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Chief Executive’s review 13
The Roadmap has given us a clear sense of 
direction and will drive improvement across  
the Group. With the built environment 
responsible for over half of the UK’s carbon 
emissions, construction has a unique role to  
play in combating climate change. Our more 
strategic approach to sustainability will further 
strengthen our ability to contribute and innovate 
in today’s fast-changing environment.
Our ﬁrst dedicated Sustainability report can be 
viewed at www.morgansindall.com/sustainability 
and we look forward to sharing our progress 
over time.
Key risks to success 
The Group’s ability to successfully implement  
its strategy and achieve its goals can be  
affected by a number of key risks. Rigorous  
risk management processes are in place to 
continuously identify new risks, to understand 
their impacts and to implement effective 
mitigating actions. In particular, we are 
addressing the following:
An intelligent approach
The market sectors in which the Group  
operates are affected by general 
macroeconomic conditions and changes in 
Government spending policy. We are particularly 
focused on managing the impact on the Group 
of the current economic environment and are 
proactively investing in the long term to ensure 
the Group is in a position of strength today and 
for when market conditions improve. With 
increased competition in many sectors, it is vital 
in today’s market to be selective in the contracts 
we bid for and to be intelligent in our bidding 
process. Avoidance of competing on price alone 
and differentiating the Group’s offering on 
service and quality through our Perfect Delivery 
standard will help secure higher margins. 
A responsible attitude
The Group’s health, safety and environmental 
performance affects our staff, subcontractors 
and the public as well as our reputation and 
commercial performance. This area of our 
business continues to be a priority for the Group 
and stringent policy frameworks and systems 
are embedded within each division and are 
regularly reviewed to minimise risk.
A greater level of scrutiny
We are applying even higher levels of  
scrutiny to the management of working capital 
to implement our strategy of investing cash 
generated from construction activities into 
regeneration and to ensure the long-term 
success of the Group. Regular monitoring of 
cash levels, stress testing longer-term forecasts 
and closely monitoring overdue work in 
progress, debtors and retentions are all 
meticulously undertaken to ensure we  
continue to grow proﬁtably. 
Rigorous credit checks and due diligence are 
undertaken to assess the ﬁnancial health of 
clients to avoid ﬁnancial loss through bad debt 
and equal rigour is applied to subcontractors 
and suppliers. Our approach to supply chain 
management is based on working with suppliers 
and subcontractors to build long-term 
relationships so that together we provide our 
clients with a superior quality service.
Outlook
Our outlook is sound with a strong balance 
sheet, a steady forward order book of £3.4bn 
(2010: £3.6bn), and a signiﬁcant and growing 
regeneration pipeline of £1.8bn (2010: £1.4bn), 
with a further £0.6bn at preferred developer,  
all providing a level of resilience to economic 
ﬂuctuations. Whilst we acknowledge the 
challenges that lie ahead, we are conﬁdent that 
the investment in regeneration and focus on 
opportunities in growing sectors of the market 
will lead to higher quality and sustained  
medium-term returns.
Paul Smith 
Chief Executive 
21 February 2012
Forward order book £bn
£3.4bn
2011 3.4
2010 3.6
2009 3.2 
Regeneration pipeline £bn
£1.8bn
2011 1.8
2010 1.4
2009 1.4
Directors’ report: business review 02–44 Directors’ report: governance 45–66 Shareholder information 123–124 Financial statements 67–122
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Chief Executive’s review
 * Operating proﬁt is proﬁt from operations before amortisation  
of intangible assets and non-recurring items.
 † Average cash is the average of the daily treasury balances for 
the year.
