 Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Chairman’s statement
Chairman’s statement
We continue  
to develop our  
strengths
Statement in summary
 >
A drive on efficiency
 >
Ongoing investment to take advantage  
of more positive industry outlook
 >
UK-focused strategy remains the same
 >
Building collaboration across our teams
“ More than ever our focus  
is now on providing an 
exciting and rewarding 
workplace culture to 
attract and retain the best.”
 Strategic report 02–46 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–120
Strategic report 08 Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
09
 Strategic report 02–46 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–120
Slough Regeneration Partnership 
Slough Borough Council 
Our divisions work 
together to deliver  
complex projects  
for clients
We build  
new homes
We build  
education  
facilities
We construct  
libraries
We create long-term 
community regeneration  Project 
Slough Regeneration Partnership
Client 
Slough Borough Council 
Division 
Investments
In 201 3 the Group’s Investments division signed a Local 
Asset Based Vehicle (LABV) joint venture agreement with 
Slough Borough Council. The LABV will deliver a series  
of developments up to a total value of £1 bn over a period 
of 1 5 years. The partnership is managed by Investments 
and benefits from the strength of the Group’s integrated 
capability. It will procure work from the Affordable  
Housing and Construction & Infrastructure divisions. 
The first phase of development ‘The Curve’ is now being 
built by the Construction & Infrastructure division. It will 
house a new library, education facilities for adults, a café  
and a cultural centre. Other community developments  
in the pipeline are a new-build secondary school and  
a new-build leisure centre with ice rink. 
The first tranche of residential developments will provide 
525 new homes, ranging from two- to four -bedrooms, 
across five sites with a gross development value of £105m. 
£1bn
value over 15 years
£16m
The Curve –  
first scheme signed
525
new homes to  
be delivered
 15-year
joint venture
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
 Strategic report 02–46 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–120
10 Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Chairman’s statement
 Strategic report 02–46 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–120
201 3 has been a year of transition for the Group. There have been a number of changes  
to the Board and the Group executive team has been strengthened. We have focused  
on securing greater collaboration across the Group to drive efficiency and improve our 
offering to clients.
Trading conditions remain tough for construction markets. Although there are clear signs of a return to growth, 
competition remains fierce and upward pressure on supply chain costs is suppressing margin growth.
Our people remain at the heart of our business. They have shown great resilience and dedication during the 
construction industry’s prolonged period of adverse conditions. As we begin to emerge into a period of growth,  
our employees will be critical to ensuring our success. We need to remain an employer of choice and, more than  
ever , our aim is to provide an exciting and rewarding workplace culture. We have set this as a key challenge for  
the executive directors. 
This is my first full year as Chairman and it has been a year of significant change for the Board, with John Morgan  
as chief executive, a new finance director in Steve Crummett and a new non-executive director , Liz Peace. 
At the end of the year , Paul Whitmore left the Group after 1 3 years of service as commercial director . He has  
worked tirelessly and made an immense contribution. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Paul and to  
wish him well with his future plans.
Given the extent of changes to the Board, I was keen to take a fresh approach to enhancing its effectiveness.  
To this end I commissioned an external Board evaluation, further details of which can be found in the corporate 
governance section. 
The results for this year reflect the challenging market conditions. Turnover has been maintained but profits  
have been impacted by competitive pressures with exceptional operating items being charged in relation to four 
construction contracts held on the balance sheet. Despite this, significant progress has been made in cash and  
working capital management and I commend the team for this achievement in demanding conditions. 
The Board proposes that the final dividend of 1 5.0p per share is held level with the prior year (201 2: 1 5.0p),  
resulting in a total dividend for the year of 27 .0p (201 2: 27 .0p).
Our strategy remains unchanged and we continue to seek opportunities in UK construction and regeneration  
markets, particularly those with high barriers to entry. Our focus is on investing in key skills and resources to ensure  
the Group is well positioned to capitalise on recovery in our markets. 
We now look ahead to a more optimistic industry forecast whilst not underestimating the challenges that lie  
ahead. As at 31 December 201 3, both the Group’s committed order book and the regeneration and development 
pipeline has increased, since the previous year end, by 8% and 23% respectively. I believe that under the 
entrepreneurial leadership of John Morgan and his team, the Group is now in the right shape to capitalise on the  
future growth and investment opportunities that will arise as markets improve.
Adrian Martin
Chairman 
18 February 201 4
Strategic report 11
