 Chairman’s statement
It’s about the culture that drives  
our business at every level
“  I am encouraged by the solid performance 
we have achieved in 201 2.”
Statement in summary
 I Solid performance in 201 2
 I Core strategy remains the same
 I Dividend realigned with stated policy
 I Number of changes to the Board
 I Medium-term prospects of the Group improving.
Directors’ report: business review
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 2 
Chairman’s statement
18
Directors’ report: business review 02–42 Directors’ report: governance 43–66 Group consolidated financial statements 67–108 Company financial statements 109–120 I am pleased to present my first statement as chairman of Morgan 
Sindall Group plc, having previously served on the Board as senior 
independent director.
Against the background of economic conditions which, over the past 
four years, have led to our UK construction markets declining by around 
a quarter, I am encouraged by the solid performance we have achieved 
in 2012.
Our clients are facing their own challenges and are placing a greater 
emphasis on capital cost, speed of delivery, quality and safety. Across  
the Group we are responding by identifying and achieving cost-effective 
solutions whilst continually raising the bar on the service we provide. 
TO READ MORE ABOUT OUR CHOSEN MARKETS AND STRATEGY: 
SEE PAGES 9 TO 1 1
Strategy
Our strategy remains the same: 
 I Increasing our focus on the UK construction and regeneration market, 
choosing those segments where we can achieve a market-leading 
position
 I Targeting markets that offer the best potential for growth and provide 
medium- to longer-term opportunities with superior returns
 I Utilising the cash generated across our construction-related activities 
to invest in, and grow, our two regeneration-related divisions, 
Affordable Housing and Urban Regeneration.
As part of our ongoing objective to manage the impact on the Group of 
the industry downturn, we are constantly working to shape the business 
to fit the trading environment. We have maintained a tight control on 
overheads and costs; we have recently reorganised our construction  
and affordable housing capabilities; we have changed the Board structure 
to improve efficiency and we are focusing on greater co-ordination 
across all divisions.
Dividend
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 1 5.0p (201 1: 30.0p) giving  
a total dividend for the year of 27 .0p (201 1: 42.0p). This change to the 
dividend will bring it back into line with our stated policy of covering the 
dividend by adjusted earnings by between 2.5 and 3.0 times. We have 
been operating below this level of dividend cover for a number of years 
and the Board has now decided that it is appropriate to realign the 
dividend with this policy. 
Board changes
There have been a number of changes to the Board over the past year.
In November the Board asked John Morgan, founder and former 
executive chairman, to return to the position of chief executive following 
the resignation of Paul Smith. In this role, John is already bringing his 
extensive knowledge of the Group and our clients to drive increased 
collaboration across the Group and to develop new and emerging 
opportunities for our business. 
As announced in January 201 3, David Mulligan is stepping down from  
his position of finance director at the end of February and will leave the 
Group in April. We are delighted to have secured the services of Steve 
Crummett as the Group’s new finance director. Formerly finance director 
at Filtrona plc, Steve’s wide-ranging skills will be of considerable value to 
the Board and the Group.
I am pleased that Liz Peace, chief executive of the British Property 
Federation, agreed to join the Board as a non-executive director in 
November. Her public sector background and understanding of the  
UK property industry will further strengthen the expertise of our Board.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Paul and David for their 
commitment and valuable contribution to the Group over the past  
10 and 1 5 years respectively. We wish them well with their future plans.
Our people
I would like to thank our dedicated employees and capable teams who 
continue to strive for and achieve a high level of service for our partners 
and clients. Their enthusiasm and commitment through another difficult 
year for the industry and at a time of significant change for the Group is 
very much appreciated.
Looking forward
I am sure we are not alone in expecting 201 3 to be another difficult year 
for the construction and regeneration market. Whilst we remain cautious 
over the outlook in the short-term, the medium-term prospects for the 
Group are improving with the key projects we have already secured and 
some early signs of further opportunities from 2014. 
We see further medium-term potential driven by the Government’s 
pledge to improve the UK’s infrastructure, an increasing number of lease 
renewals, a number of large-scale, housing regeneration schemes and  
a stream of response maintenance opportunities, where demand has 
been resilient. In addition, any modest improvement in the economy will 
also help regeneration more broadly. This potential, along with a sound 
forward order book of £3. 1bn, means that we believe the Group is 
well-positioned to emerge from the downturn in a stronger place.
I look forward to working with the Board in the next phase of the Group’s 
development as we seize the exciting opportunities that lie ahead of us.
Adrian Martin
Chairman 
19 February 201 3
Directors’ report: business review
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 2 
Chairman’s statement
19
Directors’ report: business review 02–42 Directors’ report: governance 43–66 Group consolidated financial statements 67–108 Company financial statements 109–120
