 Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Chief Executive’s review
Chief Executive’s review
We continue to target 
opportunities in the 
UK construction and 
regeneration markets
Statement in summary
 >
Significant progress achieved despite challenging 
conditions
 >
Further investment made in key skills and resources
 >
Senior management team strengthened to drive 
efficiency
 >
Tight financial discipline maintained
 >
Emerging signs of improving conditions
“ We remain confident that  
our robust order book  
and ongoing disciplined 
approach to contract 
selectivity will support  
the delivery of growth  
in this year and beyond.”
24 Strategic report
 Strategic report 02–46 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–120 Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Chief Executive’s review
 Strategic report 02–46 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–120
201 3 has seen challenging conditions predominate across most  
of our markets, with competitive pressures impacting on margins and 
profitability. Notwithstanding this, the positive operating cash flow 
generated by the business has allowed us to make further investment  
in strategic assets, key skills and resources, which positions the Group 
well to benefit from future growth opportunities. 
My priorities are to maintain the drive to improve margins and  
the Group’s cash position. I aim to achieve this through maximising 
efficiencies across all operations, capitalising on the strength of the 
Group’s integrated capability and identifying long-term opportunities  
that best suit our expertise and track record. 
To help achieve our objectives, I have strengthened the senior 
management team with the appointment of a managing director  
of Investments and Group strategy, a director of people and a Group 
commercial director all of whom sit on the Group executive team.  
In addition to this, I have also introduced a Group management team 
comprising the Group executive team and the divisional managing 
directors to consider opportunities and challenges affecting the  
Group as a whole.
The Group’s performance in 2013
Revenue for the period was 2% up on the prior year at £2,095m.  
The adjusted* gross margin reduced 90bps to 8.2% (201 2: 9. 1%), 
impacted by competitive market pressures mainly across the 
Construction & Infrastructure and Affordable Housing divisions. 
Adjusted* operating profit of £33.6m was 30% down on the prior year, 
with adjusted* operating margin of 1.6% (201 2: 2.3%). This included 
profit from the sale of investments totalling £9.9m (201 2: £8.8m).
Exceptional operating items of £14.7m have been charged in the year 
representing an impairment to trade and other receivables in relation  
to four old construction contracts held on the balance sheet.
At the half year, an impairment of £1 3.0m was made in respect of  
these items, which was based on an assessment of progress made  
at that time towards recovering these amounts and the expected time, 
cost and associated risk of pursuing legal remedies to achieve recovery.  
During the second half, there has been commercial resolution achieved 
on one of these contracts, whilst another has been impaired to reduce 
the carrying value to nil. In relation to the remaining two contracts, the 
Board believes it is appropriate to provide against these balances to  
an amount it considers is a balanced estimate of overall likely resolution 
based upon its current assessment of progress made towards  
recovering these amounts and the expected time, cost and associated 
risk of pursuing legal remedies to achieve recovery.
The result is that after charging exceptional operating items, the reported 
profit before tax for the year was £1 3.9m (201 2: £34.2m). Basic earnings 
per share was 35.4p (201 2: 72.5p).
The ongoing focus on cash and working capital management has 
continued to deliver positive progress. Operating cash flow of £14.9m 
was generated, compared to an operating cash outflow of £42.7m  
in the prior year. A key component of this is working capital, where a 
working capital outflow of £8.4m in the year compared to an outflow  
of £76.9m in 201 2. 
A focus on growth 
We remain committed to our strategy of targeting growth infrastructure 
markets where we can increase market share and investing in long-term 
major regeneration projects. Both markets command high barriers to 
entry. We are encouraged by the Government’s continuing investment  
in infrastructure, allowing our Construction & Infrastructure division  
to capitalise on its proven track record of operating in highly regulated 
markets and providing high levels of quality and safety. We have increased 
our investment in regeneration. Our development expertise and ability  
to identify innovative structuring and financing solutions remain in 
demand from local authorities committed to delivering urban and social 
renewal. The 201 3 Spending Review re-affirmed the Government’s 
commitment to release public land to stimulate local economies and 
promote job creation. This approach allows us to play to our strengths. 
Local authorities and landowners can unlock land values without 
significant impact on the public purse and we can invest our capital 
effectively as land is often retained by our partners and we avoid the 
need to buy land on the open market. 
Competitive advantage
The challenging competitive environment is likely to continue in the short 
term so we have maintained our focus on areas where we can secure 
competitive advantage. Our philosophy of Perfect Delivery drives us to 
offer ever higher standards in quality and safety. Our integrated capability 
also provides competitive advantage, allowing us to offer clients added 
value and reduced complexity. We continue to experience an increased 
demand from clients and partners who recognise the benefits we  
can offer from two or more of our divisions working collaboratively. 
Sustainability performance
We have made good progress in our sustainability performance across 
the Group. Our six Total Commitments focus on safety, developing talent, 
reducing energy consumption, carbon emissions and waste, improving 
sustainable procurement and creating local economic growth. 
TO READ MORE ABOUT SUSTAIn ABILITy:
SEE PAGES 42 TO 46
Basis of preparation:
 *The term ‘adjusted’ excludes the impact of intangible amortisation, exceptional operating items and the deferred tax credit arising due to the change in the UK corporation tax rate. 
Exceptional operating items are items of financial performance which the Group believes should be separately identified on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding 
of the financial performance of the Group.
Strategic report 25 Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Chief Executive’s review
Rigorous management
We have maintained tight financial discipline across the Group through 
robust management of overheads, cash and working capital to ensure  
we can invest cash from our construction activities into best quality 
regeneration opportunities. Rigorous credit checks are undertaken to 
scrutinise the financial health of clients to minimise bad debt risk and 
supply chain partners are also carefully assessed to ensure that together 
we provide superior, safe and sustainable services.
Looking ahead to 2014, although there are signs of improving conditions 
in some of our markets, it is anticipated that upward pressure on supply 
chain costs and skills availability will provide additional management 
challenges. Against this backdrop, we remain confident that our robust 
order book and ongoing disciplined approach to contract selectivity will 
support the delivery of growth in this year and beyond. 
Business review
The following business review is given on an adjusted basis, unless 
otherwise stated.
Committed order book and regeneration and development pipeline
The Group’s committed order book at 31 December 201 3 was  
£2.4bn, an increase of 8% from the previous year end. The divisional  
split is shown below.
 201 3 201 2 % change 
Committed order book* £m £m 
Construction & Infrastructure 1,499 1,519 - 1% 
Fit Out  142 1 70 - 16% 
Affordable Housing 581 466 + 25% 
Urban Regeneration 143 65 + 1 20% 
Investments 38 – n/a
Group committed order book 2,403 2,220 +8%
 *Committed order book comprises the secured order book and framework order book.  
The secured order book represents the Group’s share of future revenue that will be derived 
from signed contracts or letters of intent. The framework order book represents the Group’s 
expected share of revenue from the frameworks on which the Group has been appointed. 
This excludes prospects where confirmation has been received as preferred bidder only,  
with no formal contract or letter of intent in place.
The Group’s regeneration and development pipeline was £3.0bn,  
an increase of 23% from the previous year end.
 201 3 201 2 % change 
Regeneration and development pipeline* £m £m 
Affordable Housing 71 5 354 + 102% 
Urban Regeneration 1,953 1,941 + 1% 
Investments 368 179 +106%
Group regeneration and  
  development pipeline 3 ,0 36 2 ,4 7 4 + 23%
 *Regeneration and development pipeline represents the Group’s share of the gross 
development value of secured schemes including the development value of open market 
housing schemes. 
Construction & Infrastructure
Revenue £m
 
£1,234m    6%
12 1,168
13 1,234
Operating profit – adjusted* £m
£12.7m    36%
12 19.7
13 12.7
Operating margin – adjusted* %
 
1.0%    70bps
12 1.7
13 1.0
The Construction & Infrastructure division has experienced challenging 
market conditions through the year, which has significantly impacted  
on overall profitability. Although divisional revenue of £1,234m was  
up 6% on the prior year (201 2: £1, 168m), operating margin reduced  
to 1.0% impacted by competitive pressures and more latterly by cost 
inflation, which resulted in operating profit of £1 2.7m (201 2: £19.7m). 
The committed order book of £1,499m has decreased by 1%  
since the end of 201 2 and of this total, 54% is committed in 2014. 
In terms of markets served, the largest market sector for the division  
is Transport (Highways, Aviation and Rail), which accounted for 28%  
of divisional revenue. Other significant markets served are Education 
(26%) and Water (14%). By type of activity, Construction accounted  
for 56% of divisional revenue (201 2: 57%) and Infrastructure accounted 
for 44% (201 2: 43%). 
Within Infrastructure, the division has made strong progress in Transport, 
where continuing Government investment has helped the division 
increase its profile in the highways sector. This has included significant 
activity on Highways Agency smart motorway schemes, such as the 
award, in joint venture, of the M1 upgrade between junctions 39 and 42. 
The Aviation sector particularly values the benefits of the division’s 
integrated design and build offering, with work being undertaken  
on a range of projects covering terminals, air traffic control centres, 
runways, hangars and airport infrastructure. The division has furthered  
its expertise in safe and consistent delivery in these challenging 
environments with the completion of the rehabilitation of Heathrow 
Airport’s southern runway – activity on the northern runway is scheduled 
26 Strategic report
 Strategic report 02–46 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–120 Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Chief Executive’s review
 Strategic report 02–46 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–120
for 2014. At Stansted Airport, the division has secured a new framework 
agreement for the provision of design, engineering, planning and 
architectural services. The division has positioned itself for further growth 
in Rail by combining its rail electrification capabilities with its main rail 
offering and is now addressing the market with a more comprehensive 
range of services through a simplified structure. In January 2014, the 
division was awarded alliancing contracts by Network Rail in relation  
to the £650m Edinburgh-Glasgow Improvement Programme (EGIP).  
The division has already successfully delivered the new £25m station  
at Haymarket in Edinburgh through EGIP . 
The Energy sector remains attractive as the division delivers efficient 
energy solutions in generation, transmission and distribution through 
strategic alliances and frameworks. The division continues to deliver 
projects on National Grid’s Electricity Alliance Central (EAC) framework 
which provides major enhancements to the UK’s electrical transmission 
infrastructure as part of a five-year agreement which runs until March 
201 7 . The EAC has recently been awarded a £10m scheme at Middleton 
Substation, near Heysham, Lancashire and work will start on site in  
March 2014. The EAC also continues to deliver the £1 10m project at 
Connah’s Quay which involves the construction of a new 400kV Gas 
Insulated Switchgear substation. Both of these projects play a vital role  
in the reinforcement of the high voltage transmission infrastructure  
in north-west England. In the nuclear sector, work has commenced  
at Sellafield following last year’s appointment as delivery partner in joint 
venture on the potential 1 5-year £1. 1bn contract, and further levels  
of activity will be undertaken in 2014. 
During 201 3, the division continued to help maintain and improve the 
UK’s Water networks through positions on three frameworks. It remains 
committed to growing its presence further in this market; as the water 
industry starts procurement for its next asset management period, 
Severn Trent Water and Yorkshire Water have already confirmed the 
division’s position on their AMP6 frameworks. 
In addition, its specialist tunnelling capability on large-scale civil 
engineering schemes was demonstrated by further progress on  
Crossrail projects and Thames Water’s Lee Tunnel. Further investment 
will be made in 2014 to secure, in joint venture, a contract within the 
Thames Tideway Tunnel project, following pre-qualification success. 
The Construction business has worked on projects alongside all other 
Group divisions, demonstrating how the Group’s integrated approach  
can help reduce complexity for clients and overcome barriers to success. 
It has continued to increase its foothold in the Commercial sector, not 
least in London where it was appointed by The Crown Estate in June  
to refurbish 1–3 Regent Street, a Grade II listed building in St. James’s.  
It is well positioned as the sector’s recovery gains traction. In Education, 
£264m awards were secured across the country during the year.
Project
Rail electrification
Division
Construction & Infrastructure
The Construction & Infrastructure division’s rail electrification team has 
provided overhead line electrification and isolation support on rail lines 
across the UK for 1 5 years. The team carries out safety critical roles 
and upholds exemplary safety standards. In addition to the division’s 
100% Safe approach which underpins all that it does, the team has also 
applied behavioural safety and behavioural vector analysis programmes 
to ensure the creation of high performing and safe teams.
We help keep trains running
Strategic report 27 Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Chief Executive’s review
Importantly, the division has secured a place on the Defence 
Infrastructure Organisation design and build framework covering the  
East Midlands and Eastern England. The framework, estimated to  
be worth between £100m and £250m over an initial four year period, 
and potentially for a further three years, is the first of seven Capital 
Works Frameworks procured under the Next Generation Estates 
Contracts programme for the delivery of construction projects on  
the Defence Estate.
Exceptional operating items of £14.7m have been charged in the year 
representing impairments to trade and other receivables in relation  
to four old construction contracts held on the balance sheet. During  
the second half, there has been commercial resolution achieved on one  
of these contracts, whilst another has been impaired to reduce the 
carrying value to nil.
Looking ahead, the division is focused on building its integrated offering 
to its key strategic sectors, with a view to securing more complex  
and long-term projects that offer enhanced returns through strategic 
alliances, frameworks and working collaboratively across the Group.  
At the same time, ongoing investment in developing the division’s  
skill base and supply chain will further enhance its ability to deliver the 
highest operational standards to its customers. 
Although increasing market confidence in future construction output  
has become apparent in the latter part of the year, as evidenced  
by increased activity and bidding levels, this has been accompanied by 
upward pressure on supply chain costs and availability, which will impact 
on full margin recovery. Against this backdrop, continued stringent bid 
selection and rigorous management of working capital will underpin 
performance and will further position the division to benefit from 
future growth opportunities as they arise.
Fit Out
Revenue £m
£427m    2%
12 437
13 427
Operating profit – adjusted* £m
 
£10.9m    4%
12 11.3
13 10.9
Operating margin – adjusted* %
 
2.6%    0%
12 2.6
13 2.6
 
Market conditions for Fit Out have remained broadly stable throughout 
the year, with strong competition resulting in a price sensitive market.  
In the final quarter of the year though, early indications of growing 
confidence in market improvement were noted in London and across  
the regions. 
Although revenue was down 2% on the prior year, the operating margin 
was held level at 2.6% (201 2: 2.6%) resulting in an operating profit  
of £10.9m (201 2: £1 1.3m). The committed order book of £142m was 
down 16% compared to the prior year end, however the current level  
of expected orders and high quality prospects in the bid pipeline suggest 
an increasing level of overall sales activity going into 2014.
The London office market, which accounts for 7 4% of revenue,  
has experienced improving occupier confidence with customers in 
professional services and the technology, media and telecoms sectors  
all driving demand. Activity has been weighted towards refurbishment  
of offices whilst in occupation and the division’s flagship project, the fit 
out of PwC’s 450,000 sq ft headquarters at Embankment Place, London 
has been successfully delivered. This ambitious and highly technical 
refurbishment programme set out to revitalise dated and inefficient 
workspaces and was carried out with around 2,000 staff in occupation. 
The complex refurbishment of the building achieved an Outstanding 
BREEAM score and the building now boasts some of the highest 
sustainability credentials in Europe. 
28 Strategic report
 Strategic report 02–46 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–120 Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Chief Executive’s review
 Strategic report 02–46 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–120
In other regions (26% of revenue), high profile completions include ITV’s 
new high specification facilities at MediaCityUK in Salford whilst the 
integrated services of the Fit Out and Construction & Infrastructure 
divisions delivered a highly technical and strategic project for National Grid.
Beside the commercial office market sector which accounts for 88%  
of revenue, higher education (8% of revenue) and retail banking (1% of 
revenue) remain other strategic growth sectors. As major universities 
embark on significant capital spend programmes, the division has 
increased its sector presence with noteworthy wins from five of London’s 
leading universities and three major regional universities. Within retail 
banking, market opportunities are expected to increase as banks undergo 
consolidation and estate rationalisation.
The year has also seen the successful launch of the division’s Workplace 
Consultancy service, undertaking work within its first year of operation 
for prominent clients including Nuffield Health and SAS. Other highlights 
include the division winning its first fit out project through referral from 
one of its international alliances. 
Looking ahead, it is anticipated that the market will show a measured 
recovery in 2014, with renewed confidence leading to an increase in 
profitable opportunities across all core sectors. The division is well placed 
to capitalise on the increasing number of larger corporates securing office 
space for 201 5- 16 occupation and the expected significant surge in 
lease expiries expected in London over the next four years. As occupiers 
seek new premises in a supply-constrained market, it is anticipated that 
this demand will lead to an improved profitable pipeline from which the 
division is well-positioned to benefit. 
Affordable Housing
Revenue £m
£381m    1%
12 386
13 381
Operating profit – adjusted* £m
 
£8.6m    25%
12 11.5
13 8.6
Operating margin – adjusted* %
 
2.3%    70bps
12 3.0
13 2.3
Strategically, the Affordable Housing divisional activities can be 
categorised into (i) Regeneration (mixed-tenure schemes which include 
open market housing developments) and (ii) Construction & Services 
(being new build housing contracting and planned and response 
maintenance services).
Project
Mill Brook, Liverpool
Division
Affordable Housing
This development of 71 new homes for rent, shared ownership and 
purchase in south Liverpool was named Best Affordable Housing 
Development in the LABC North West Building Excellence Awards.  
The scheme was commended for achieving, “high quality and 
sustainable buildings fit for the future.”
The award was made to the Mill Brook development because the 
relationship between Compendium Living – a partnership between the 
Group’s Affordable Housing division, and housing association Riverside 
Group – and Liverpool City Council’s building control department led  
to cost savings and improved standards of construction.
. 
We save money  
and improve standards
29 Strategic report Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Chief Executive’s review
Total divisional revenue of £381m was slightly down by 1%  
(201 2: £386m), whilst operating profit of £8.6m was down 25%  
(201 2: £1 1.5m). Although overall performance showed an improvement 
in the second half, the reduction in margin in the year was driven primarily 
by competition and a lower margin contribution from the Construction  
& Services activities, offset in part by positive revenue and margin 
growth from the Regeneration activities.
Regeneration (28% of divisional revenue) is the key strategic focus  
of the division through its mixed-tenure activities. The division 
experienced improved conditions mainly in the second half of the year, 
driven by an uplift in open market house sales which were boosted  
by the Government’s Help to Buy scheme. This contributed to a 36% 
increase in open market sales in the year with the average open market 
sales price increasing by 14% to £1 77 ,000 (201 2: £1 55,000). Of the 
total number of sales, 30% were through the Help to Buy scheme. The 
full benefit of this increase, however, was diluted by some being sales 
from older, lower return sites, although such sales have returned capital 
to the business for re-investment in newer, higher margin opportunities. 
In business development, successful new awards in the year include the 
£269m Woolwich Estates regeneration scheme, the £78m Lymington 
Fields, Dagenham scheme and the division’s preferred bidder status on 
the £30m Ponders End scheme in Enfield. 
Additionally, working as a partner in the Compendium Living joint venture, 
considerable progress has been made on the £100m Castleward Urban 
Village regeneration scheme, with the first tranche of 850 homes 
scheduled for completion in early 2014. Compendium Living has also 
been appointed lead developer for the East Hull Ings regeneration 
scheme, transforming the area with 770 new quality homes.
Further growth opportunities in mixed-tenure schemes are anticipated 
from appointments on the four-year London Development Panel, 
expected to procure up to £5bn of housing-led mixed-use development 
on public land, and also on all four lots of the Homes and Communities 
Agency’s four-year £4bn DPP2 (Delivery Partner Panel 2) housing 
framework. 
Collaborative schemes with other Group divisions have continued to 
provide a strong growth platform for Affordable Housing, with the 
division working with both the Urban Regeneration and Construction & 
Infrastructure divisions and with Investments also procuring work from 
the division on projects in Slough and Towcester. 
The regeneration and development pipeline of £71 5m was an increase  
of 102%, underpinning the future growth and profit potential of this part 
of the division.
Project
Castleward Urban Village, Derby
Division
Affordable Housing
Castleward Urban Village, under development by Compendium Living, 
the joint venture between Affordable Housing and the Riverside Group, 
is only the second development project in the UK to gain a ‘Good’ 
certification under the BREEAM Communities assessment. This 
measures the sustainability of new large-scale developments at the 
masterplanning stage, with certification awarded to projects where 
economic, social and environmental sustainability is being carefully 
considered. So far in phase one 96% of the waste generated during  
the building process has been recycled, well above the 90% target  
set for the project.
We are committed  
to reducing waste
30 Strategic report
 Strategic report 02–46 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–120
