 Chief Executive’s review
It’s about an enduring 
strategy for the long term
“  I am fortunate in the broad base of 
expertise that I can call upon within  
the Board and senior management. 
There are undoubtedly some very  
exciting opportunities ahead for the  
Group and I look forward to ensuring 
we are in the best shape to leverage  
our expertise and track record.”
Statement in summary
 I Group made steady progress despite tough market conditions
 I Increased our focus on growth sectors of infrastructure 
markets
 I Investment in regeneration to drive growth from 2014
 I Continue tight management of working capital and overheads
 I 201 3 to remain challenging, 2014 outlook improving
 I Sound forward order book and regeneration pipeline.
Directors’ report: business review
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 2 
Chief Executive’s review
20
Directors’ report: business review 02–42 Directors’ report: governance 43–66 Group consolidated financial statements 67–108 Company financial statements 109–120 I am delighted to return to the position of chief executive. As a founder 
of the business I have steered the Group through prosperous years and 
through downturns and I intend to draw on this experience to lead the 
Group through the current challenging market conditions and ensure we 
are positioned to take advantage of the opportunities that lie ahead. We 
have made progress in 201 2 but there is always scope for improvement.
I believe our strategy is robust and our aim is to remain focused on those 
UK markets where we can develop a leadership position. My priorities are 
on improving margins, focusing on our strengths in delivering complex 
projects, appropriate capital allocation, driving increased collaboration 
across the Group and developing new and emerging opportunities. 
I am fortunate in the broad base of expertise I can call upon within  
the Board and senior management. There are undoubtedly some very 
exciting opportunities ahead for the Group and I am looking forward  
to ensuring we are in the best shape to leverage our expertise and  
track record.
Managing market conditions
Revenue £m
 
£2,047m
12 2,047
11 2,227
8%
Profit before tax, amortisation 
and non-recurring items £m
 
£47. 1m
12 47.1
11 45.3
4%
Profit before tax and amortisation £m
 
£37. 1m
12 37.1
11 43.9
15%
Profit before tax £m
 
£34.2m
12 34.2
11 40.0
15%
The Group has made steady progress throughout 201 2 despite market 
conditions remaining tough. Revenue fell to £2.0bn (201 1: £2.2bn) and 
profit before tax and amortisation reduced to £37 . 1m (201 1: £43.9m).  
A £10.0m charge for reorganisation costs has been incurred during the 
year as we refocused our construction and affordable housing activities 
and these are shown as non-recurring items. Profit before tax, 
amortisation and non-recurring items was £47 . 1m (201 1: £45.3m), 
which includes a £7 .0m gain on the disposal of our medical properties 
investment in July 201 2.
Adjusted earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets 
were 79.3p (201 1: 86.7p). The Group’s construction-related revenue  
fell in 201 2, which led to an increase in working capital. This, coupled  
with a modest increase in the level of investment in our regeneration 
businesses, meant that average net debt was, as expected, £40m 
(201 1: £23m average net cash). The year end cash balance was  
£50.4m (201 1: £108.9m).
We continue to face challenges including reductions in public spending, 
deferred investment decisions and higher levels of competition. Rigorous 
risk management processes are in place to identify, monitor and, where 
possible, mitigate potential risks. Our strategy remains to invest the cash 
generated from our construction-related activities in our regeneration-
related activities, namely Affordable Housing and Urban Regeneration. 
This strategy is being tested by a drop in construction revenues and 
tighter payment terms from clients. We are therefore being more 
selective in the regeneration schemes we invest in and are identifying 
construction opportunities that best suit our market knowledge and 
specialist skills. This includes our exposure to growth infrastructure 
markets where we already have a proven track record.
We are positioning the Group to come out of the downturn stronger  
by realigning resources. We have reshaped the construction business 
within the Construction and Infrastructure division as we have become 
increasingly selective in our contract bidding. We are also focused  
on growing its infrastructure business where there are market 
opportunities. In non-infrastructure sectors, including the education  
and commercial sectors, we are increasing our focus on long-term 
frameworks. Changes have also been made to the Affordable Housing 
division to improve its operational efficiency and to match the level  
of resources with its current and medium-term workload.
Growing market share in infrastructure
We have increased our focus on growth sectors of the infrastructure 
market, in particular the energy and transport markets, which offer 
longer-term opportunities and enhanced returns due to the complexity 
and scale of projects. Our reputation within these markets is improving 
significantly as we have established the required track record, scale and 
expertise. We are increasingly working on larger infrastructure projects 
as our integrated approach enables us to reduce complexity for our 
clients. We are also enhancing our ability to deliver more complex 
projects through joint ventures as demonstrated by our appointment,  
in joint venture, by Sellafield Ltd as its delivery partner for a potential 
1 5 -year, £1. 1bn contract. 
Directors’ report: business review
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 2 
Chief Executive’s review
21
Directors’ report: business review 02–42 Directors’ report: governance 43–66 Group consolidated financial statements 67–108 Company financial statements 109–120 Chief Executive’s review 
Unlocking land values for regeneration partners
Our growing investment in regeneration is closely aligned with the 
Government’s agenda to release under-utilised land assets to stimulate 
local economies and create jobs. This approach allows local authorities 
and landowners to unlock land values and create opportunities at no 
significant upfront cost to the public sector. Land is often retained by  
our partners, allowing us to use our capital efficiently and avoid the risk  
of buying land on the open market. Our growing expertise in complex 
Local Asset Backed Vehicles (‘LABVs’), driven by public sector land 
release, has led to our Investments division being appointed as the 
preferred joint venture partner for Slough Borough Council’s LABV.  
This long-term joint venture is expected to deliver one of the country’s 
most ambitious regeneration schemes, completing developments up  
to a total value of £1.0bn over a 1 5-year period.
There are high barriers to entry in regeneration as success lies in 
experience, expertise, commitment and trust. It is these credentials, 
which take years to develop, that have enabled our regeneration-related 
divisions to embed themselves deeply within this market. This year our 
Urban Regeneration division has demonstrated its expertise by securing 
£45m of Government funding that will play a critical role in kick-starting 
seven projects for our clients. As tightening fiscal constraints persist,  
our collaborative approach will remain in strong demand as local 
authorities continue to seek partners with a track record, financial 
strength and the ability to provide funding solutions to regenerate 
worn-down communities.
It’s about our  
track record
In June 201 2, the Construction and Infrastructure division completed work on the  
new £75m state-of-the-art mental health facilities on the Murray Royal Hospital site 
in Perth. Undertaken for NHS Tayside, the development provides integrated healthcare 
facilities for General Adult Psychiatry, Psychiatry of Old Age and Medium Secure 
patients. The division’s extensive healthcare experience was instrumental in ensuring 
the safety of patients as well as visitors and resulted in a delighted client.
Construction and Infrastructure
Murray Royal Hospital, NHS Tayside 
Scotland
Directors’ report: business review
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 2 
Chief Executive’s review
22
Directors’ report: business review 02–42 Directors’ report: governance 43–66 Group consolidated financial statements 67–108 Company financial statements 109–120 In 201 2, we increased our interest in a key joint venture, ISIS Waterside 
Regeneration, from 25% to 50%, which will underpin medium-term 
growth and we are excited about the opportunities that this brings.  
We anticipate returns from our investment in regeneration to drive 
growth from 2014 as Urban Regeneration increases the level of 
construction activity on-site in 201 3.
Honing our competitive advantage
The UK construction industry output is forecast to show a drop of 9%  
in 201 2 and is forecast to contract further by around 5% in 201 3. With 
output shrinking, bidding is more aggressive and pressure on margins has 
increased. We continue to carefully select the contracts we bid for, and 
maintain a tight control of resources. We also continue to focus on the 
areas where we can secure competitive advantage and on improving 
what we offer to clients. Our unique and differentiating approach is 
rooted in our philosophy of Perfect Delivery, which lies at the heart of 
our operations, driving us to achieve ever higher standards of quality.
The Group aims to develop competitive advantage through its integrated 
capabilities. Increasingly, we are maximising our offering through 
packaging together our capabilities and providing clients with the added 
value of two or more of our specialist divisions working together. We 
have strength in our breadth of capabilities and in our ability to integrate 
different skills to provide excellent service as demonstrated within South 
Northamptonshire Council’s £38m Towcester Regeneration and Civic 
Accommodation project. The Investments division will deliver the project 
in partnership with Affordable Housing, who will deliver the residential 
development and Construction and Infrastructure, who will build the 
commercial development.
Revenue £m
 
£1 ,1 68m
12 1,168
11 1,268
8%
Operating profit* £m
 
£1 9.7m
12 19.7
11 21.1
7%
Margin %
 
1.7%
12 1.7
11 1.7
0%
Forward order book £bn
 
£1.5bn
12 1.5
11 1.6
6%
Construction and Infrastructure
As expected, Construction and Infrastructure’s revenue fell by 8% to 
£1, 168m (201 1: £1,268m) with a corresponding fall in operating profit 
to £19.7m (201 1: £21. 1m). This was a creditable performance given the 
market pressures, with margin steady at 1.7% (201 1: 1.7%).
Falling public sector, and weak private sector, demand will inevitably 
impact on construction volumes going forward. However, in line with  
the Group’s strategy, the division has successfully implemented a shift  
in the balance of its work as it increases its focus on the growing 
infrastructure markets. This is significantly offsetting the anticipated  
drop in demand and has enabled the division to largely maintain its  
order book despite the overall market decline.
Through the division’s commitment to Perfect Delivery, it sets the 
highest standards of service and consistently delivers against them.  
It innovates by bringing a fresh approach to challenging projects, driving 
down client costs in many different ways including identifying cutting 
edge building techniques or through its expertise in value engineering. 
The division’s project team working on the £1 36m joint venture to 
deliver the M62 managed motorway contract clearly demonstrated its 
expertise when it identified £48m of value engineering and efficiency 
savings for its client before work commenced.
Nine of the UK’s top 1 5 airports have benefited 
from the division’s specialist skills this year and the 
sector especially values its integrated design and 
construction approach to complex projects.
Shaping the UK’s infrastructure
The highly regulated energy market offers significant potential to  
the Group as the division has extensive experience and expertise in 
transmission and distribution and is broadening its capability in power 
generation. The division’s reach into the nuclear sector has been 
extended with the award of the contract at Sellafield to provide a range 
of essential infrastructure asset services. Our relationship with National 
Grid has deepened further with two awards in joint venture including a 
five-year contract extension to deliver major enhancements to the UK’s 
electrical transmission infrastructure.
Within the rail market, significant ongoing work has been undertaken for 
Network Rail throughout the year as part of the Multi Asset Framework 
Agreement, which runs until 2014 and is expected to deliver £200m  
of work in joint venture. In addition, the division has been awarded the 
£20m North Doncaster Chord project on the East Coast Main Line.  
The aviation market has considerable barriers to entry as it demands  
the highest standards in technical expertise, consistent delivery, security 
and safety. Nine of the UK’s top 1 5 airports have benefited from the 
division’s specialist skills this year and the market especially values its 
integrated design and construction approach to complex projects. Major 
projects have been secured under existing frameworks at Gatwick and 
Heathrow airports including a £31m runway rehabilitation contract at 
Heathrow airport. 
Directors’ report: business review
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 2 
Chief Executive’s review
23
Directors’ report: business review 02–42 Directors’ report: governance 43–66 Group consolidated financial statements 67–108 Company financial statements 109–120 Chief Executive’s review 
The division is well-positioned within the highways market to benefit 
from the Government’s continuing commitment to infrastructure 
investment. Allocated work from the Highways Agency frameworks  
is expected to start in 201 3 and approval has been provided to 
commence work, in joint venture, on upgrading the A1 to motorway 
standard between Leeming and Barton.
Within the water market, the AMP 5 framework agreement with 
Yorkshire Water Services has provided £76m of joint venture contracts 
to improve bathing water quality at both Scarborough and Bridlington, 
drawing on the division’s tunnelling expertise, and to design and  
build a pioneering new energy scheme at the Esholt Waste Water 
treatment works.
Construction and Infrastructure is working for UK Power Networks on  
a £14m cable tunnel project between Whitechapel and Finsbury Market 
in order to strengthen London’s electricity supplies. Work also continues 
in joint venture for Thames Water on East London’s Lee Tunnel, the 
capital’s deepest ever tunnel, and for Crossrail on projects including 
C510 Whitechapel and Liverpool Street Station tunnels where the joint 
venture is now two years into the five-year, £235m contract.
Performing across a breadth of sectors
The division’s construction profile remains high as it focuses on  
sectors where it can benefit from its respected track record. In particular 
education remains an important market. 201 2 saw the launch of the 
division’s innovative standard designs for primary and secondary schools 
that are fully supported by funding options to ensure projects are 
financially viable. It has also been allocated a further £45m project to 
construct nine new primary schools over the next three years in the 
latest phase of South Lanarkshire Council’s £1 50m Primary School 
Modernisation programme.
Despite the commercial market remaining subdued, the division has 
enjoyed success. It has been appointed to deliver the £70m Longbridge 
town centre development in Birmingham and has also successfully 
established a foothold in London including winning £55m of building  
and refurbishment contracts and completing a £65m commercial 
development for Legal and General Property.
Encouraging forward order book
With little improvement anticipated in economic and market conditions 
in the short-term we do expect the division’s revenue, operating profit 
and margin to reduce further in 201 3. However, we are encouraged by 
the division’s forward order book standing at £1.5bn (201 1: £1.6bn)  
with projects at preferred bidder stage valued at £0.5bn (201 1: £0.3bn). 
We are confident that the division’s track record in infrastructure, its 
expertise in operating frameworks and its wide range of skills will 
continue to provide it with a level of resilience, as it continues to adapt  
to changing market conditions.
Revenue £m
 
£427m
12 427
11 438
3%
Operating profit* £m
 
£1 1.3m
12 11.3
11 12.4
9%
Margin %
 
2.6%
12 2.6
11 2.8
7%
Forward order book £m
 
£1 70m
12 170
11 216
21%
Fit Out
Fit Out’s revenue was marginally down on 201 1 at £427m (201 1: 
£438m) with operating profit at £1 1.3m (201 1: £1 2.4m) and margin 
softening slightly to 2.6% (201 1: 2.8%). The division has performed 
steadily given it is operating within a highly competitive and price 
sensitive market. The division’s consistent delivery and quality is valued 
and has led to 40% of the division’s workload comprising repeat business 
from valued clients. 
Maintaining its leadership position
The division has made a major contribution to the Group’s strategy of 
creating leading positions in its chosen markets. It has maintained its 
leadership position in the commercial office market, increasing market 
share to 30% and has delivered the year’s largest project in the fit out 
market for a global professional services firm. The division has maintained 
its focus on the more resilient sub-£1m project market where it expects 
continued growth in 201 3 whilst the market continues to be impacted 
by a significant shortage of major projects. The strong trend towards 
refurbishment plays to the division’s strengths as specialists in the 
refurbishment of occupied buildings as demonstrated this year by the 
refurbishment of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP’s London office 
whilst under occupation. 
Directors’ report: business review
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 2 
Chief Executive’s review
24
Directors’ report: business review 02–42 Directors’ report: governance 43–66 Group consolidated financial statements 67–108 Company financial statements 109–120 Broadening capabilities 
In line with our strategy to broaden our capabilities in existing markets, 
our design and build fit out business, Morgan Lovell, has significantly 
strengthened its offering this year by establishing a new workplace 
consultancy team. Demand for this extended offering has been proven 
with work already secured with leading organisations including LinkedIn 
and SAS.
Progress in core markets
The division has made progress in its core growth markets of retail 
banking, higher education and leisure. Securing a further retail banking 
framework appointment means that the division is now working in 
partnership with three of the four largest UK banks. In the leisure market, 
a major completion includes the fit out of the largest premium gym in 
London, owned by American operators, Equinox. Current major clients  
in higher education include Imperial College London where the division  
is drawing on the Group’s integrated capability, leading a joint venture 
with Construction and Infrastructure. 
Growing regional presence
The division has increased its balance of work outside of London and 
reported a solid regional performance, underpinned by a new office 
opening in Leeds. Projects include a 60,000 sq ft fit out of ITV’s new 
office at MediaCity UK in Salford and the delivery of the UK’s only 
Leadership Energy and Environmental Design (‘LEED’) Gold and Silver 
(assessment for sustainable office fit out) accredited office building for 
AutoDesk in Farnham. Major projects are also underway in Scotland for 
Hewlett Packard and Scottish Power.
Improving medium-term outlook
Moving into 201 3, the division remains committed to realising its 
ambition to be the trusted property partner of choice and to reaching  
its target of securing 100% of its workload through recommendation.  
Its objectives include securing more work directly from existing clients 
and frameworks and winning work from international clients. Its order 
book currently stands at £1 70m (201 1: £216m) and we expect similar 
market conditions in 201 3 to those experienced in 201 2. The market is 
expected to improve in the medium-term, driven by an expected surge 
in lease expiries and new office development.
It’s about the quality 
of our service
The division transformed 45,000 sq ft of the London headquarters of mobile money 
specialists Monitise. A time lapse video of the site was filmed so that the client could 
show the project build to its stakeholders. The project was delivered on time and  
on budget. Fit Out
Monitise 
London
Directors’ report: business review
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 2 
Chief Executive’s review
25
Directors’ report: business review 02–42 Directors’ report: governance 43–66 Group consolidated financial statements 67–108 Company financial statements 109–120 Chief Executive’s review 
Revenue £m
 
£386m
12 386
11 462
17%
Operating profit* £m
 
£1 1.5m
12 11.5
11 18.5
38%
Margin %
 
3.0%
12 3.0
11 4.0
25%
Forward order book £bn
 
£1.3bn
12 1.3
11 1.5
13%
Affordable Housing
It has been a challenging year for Affordable Housing with revenue  
falling by 1 7% to £386m (201 1: £462m) with operating profit down  
to £1 1.5m (201 1: £18.5m) and margin at 3.0% (201 1: 4.0%). This 
reflects difficult market conditions with new-build social housing being 
particularly hard hit, as well as lower than normal returns from a small 
number of older mixed-tenure regeneration projects.
Consequently, we have restructured the business in response to  
tough competition and continuing pressure on margins. Open market 
house sales have improved and the division has continued to develop  
its market-leading response maintenance offering, providing local 
authorities and housing associations with a nationwide service.  
This investment has led to over £1 10m of contract awards this year  
and a far greater contribution to the division’s overall performance.
Affordable Housing is responding to the demanding environment by 
focusing on securing major, long-term regeneration schemes and more 
work via framework agreements across all its operations. As the UK’s 
complete affordable housing solutions specialist, its track record and its 
ability to forge strong long-term relationships has enabled the division  
to capitalise on major opportunities.
Complex regeneration projects
The division is playing a key role in our strategy to focus on major 
regeneration opportunities. Its expertise allows it to take on highly 
complex, housing-led regeneration projects, either solely or working in 
collaboration with other Group divisions. In 201 3 it starts construction  
of the £100m Castleward Urban Village regeneration development, 
through Compendium, its joint venture with Riverside Housing 
Association, eventually delivering 850 new homes. It is working on major 
long-term projects with other Group divisions including the potential 
delivery of the first £105m tranche of housing within the £1bn Slough 
Borough Council LABV. Other Group regeneration collaborations include 
the £38m Towcester Regeneration and Civic Accommodation project 
with the Investments division and the second phase of residential 
development at Northshore, Stockton-on-Tees with our Urban 
Regeneration division.
A slowdown in affordable housing starts has had a significant impact on 
the division’s new-build social housing programme. The new affordable 
housing regime introduced gave Registered Providers until the end of 
March 201 5 to complete their programmes. A number of clients are  
yet to commence their building programmes, which has resulted in a 
significant slowdown in the market. However, those with grant funding 
are expected to deliver the targeted homes in time, so the division is 
anticipating an increase in activity over the next 18 months as projects 
commence on-site to meet this deadline.
Open market sales volumes improving
Despite the limited mortgage availability subduing the market, house  
sale volumes have improved throughout the year with completed  
sales totalling 383 in 201 2 (201 1: 332). The division’s reputation for 
consistent delivery of high-quality sustainable homes is enabling it to win 
significant contracts despite the increasingly competitive environment. 
The division is working on one of Scotland’s largest, new-build council 
housing sites, delivering 1 50 council homes in a £1 2m scheme for West 
Lothian Council. Further improvement in its pipeline of opportunities is 
expected next year as the division works with partners to commit 
funding allocations to meet the Homes and Communities Agency’s 
deadline of March 201 5.
Response and refurbishment markets
The response maintenance market remains steady, albeit competitive.  
A highlight has been the £50m repairs contract awarded by Accord 
Group, reinforcing the division’s market-leading position. There is a 
growing number of opportunities in the South of England with the 
division currently bidding for over £200m of contracts to be awarded  
in early 201 3.
Directors’ report: business review
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 2 
Chief Executive’s review
26
Directors’ report: business review 02–42 Directors’ report: governance 43–66 Group consolidated financial statements 67–108 Company financial statements 109–120 In the planned refurbishment market, the division continues to support 
social landlords upgrading their ageing housing stock. It has been 
appointed as one of two contractors to share equally the delivery of  
a £35m Decent Homes improvement programme in Leicestershire  
and has also begun work on the Vale of Glamorgan framework,  
providing a platform to progress further work in Wales.
National need for affordable housing 
With a forward order book of £1.3bn (201 1: £1.5bn), the division is  
well placed to continue helping partners and clients meet the UK’s crucial 
need for high-quality affordable housing. It is also targeting major 
housing regeneration schemes, which will drive economic and social 
renewal and enable growth in the medium-term.
Revenue £m
 
£62m
12 62
11 57
9%
Operating profit* £m
 
£2.7m
12 2.127
11 3.9
31%
Regeneration pipeline £bn
 
£1.9bn
12 1.9
11 1.6
19%
Urban Regeneration
It’s about offering clients 
innovative solutions
The division’s expertise and ability to offer different cross-subsidy funding solutions 
enabled this development to proceed and provided much needed housing for London.
Affordable Housing
Finsbury Park  
London
Directors’ report: business review
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 2 
Chief Executive’s review
27
Directors’ report: business review 02–42 Directors’ report: governance 43–66 Group consolidated financial statements 67–108 Company financial statements 109–120 Chief Executive’s review 
Urban Regeneration saw a rise in the level of activity in 201 2 with 
revenue increasing to £62m (201 1: £57m). Operating profit was down 
to £2.7m (201 1: £3.9m). The operating profit was impacted by the 
subdued market conditions as well as an increased share of the costs  
of the ISIS Waterside Regeneration joint venture. During the year the 
division increased its interest in ISIS from 25% to 50%. In the short-term 
the division will recognise a greater share of the operating costs but will 
enjoy 50% of the future profit as opportunities are developed in the 
medium-term.
Overcoming barriers to success
Overall the division has made solid progress this year. The momentum  
it has built up across its portfolio of 35 schemes and the award of new 
development agreements are all significant factors in our confidence  
that returns from our investment in regeneration will start to increase  
in 2014.
Our confidence is further strengthened by the fact that the division has 
capitalised on its reputation and secured £45m of Government funding 
to unlock stalled housing development. These funds will help kick-start 
seven projects within the division’s portfolio and funding conditions 
include an accelerated timetable of delivery. This will result in a number 
of residential elements within the division’s mixed-use schemes being 
brought forward and delivered over the next two years.
Sentiment remains subdued
Investor and tenant sentiment remains stable but subdued as economic 
recovery continues to stall. The lack of speculative development in  
the commercial office market together with tenants exercising lease 
breaks is expected to lead to an uplift in demand for new Grade A 
accommodation. The division believes it is in a good position to respond 
to this uplift due to its landholdings secured through development 
agreements.
New development agreements 
In 201 2, £340m of schemes were converted from preferred developer 
status into contracted agreements. The division has entered into two 
development agreements with Basingstoke and Deane Borough Council 
to deliver its £200m regeneration project, developing in excess of 
700,000 sq ft on council-owned land parcels. The first planning 
application is targeted for mid-201 3 with work on-site expected to 
commence later in the year. Stockport Council has also selected the 
division to deliver its £140m office quarter and the first phase of 
development is due to start on-site early 201 3. Progress has also been 
made in finalising development agreements to deliver major mixed-use 
schemes in Warrington and Hucknall.
Planning secured
Planning consents for new development valued at over £300m have 
been secured in 201 2. These include consent for the second phase of 
residential development at its Northshore development to deliver 76 
residential units in partnership with our Affordable Housing division. 
Planning has been secured for a 60,000 sq ft Grade A office building, 
pre-let to KPMG. This development is the first new-build office in Leeds 
city centre since 2006. Approximately £95m of construction contracts 
have been awarded on sites this year. Construction has started on the 
1. 1m sq ft, £220m mixed-use Talbot Gateway Central Business District 
scheme in partnership with Blackpool Council. Work is also underway  
on the large-scale £350m regeneration of Swindon town centre.
Tentative lettings market 
Fragile occupier confidence has meant that the lettings market remains 
subdued. In addition to KPMG in Leeds, significant deals have been 
completed including leasing 140,000 sq ft in two major distribution 
centres at Eurocentral in Scotland and over 14,000 sq ft of Grade A 
office space to Santander at No 4 St Paul’s Square, Liverpool.
Completions include the new £20m civic offices in Doncaster, an 
element of the city’s £300m Civic and Cultural Quarter. The division  
has also delivered 271 new homes as part of the £180m, 680,000 sq ft 
Rathbone Market regeneration scheme in Canning Town, East London, 
working within the English Cities Fund partnership. With the critical need 
for housing in the capital, the first phase of this new development has 
proved successful with only 21 units currently unreserved.
Maintaining momentum
Whilst market constraints will continue in the short-term, an increased 
emphasis on residential, especially in the South, has served to further 
balance the division’s mixed-use activity. Through maintaining 
momentum across its portfolio, commencing 1 5 further development 
projects with an end value of £190m, the division has good visibility of 
how it will contribute to the Group’s profitability in 2014 and beyond.  
Its forward development pipeline stands at £1.9bn (201 1: £1.6bn) with  
a further £0.3bn (201 1: £0.6bn) at preferred developer status. The 
Group’s strong balance sheet and the division’s track record will enable it 
to identify and create new long-term partnership opportunities with the 
public and private sectors, enabling the division to continue unlocking 
land values and playing a leading role in regeneration.
Directors’ report: business review
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 2 
Chief Executive’s review
28
Directors’ report: business review 02–42 Directors’ report: governance 43–66 Group consolidated financial statements 67–108 Company financial statements 109–120 Directors’ portfolio valuation £m
 
£32m
12 32
11 49
35%
Investments carrying value £m
 
£1 8.2m
12 18.2
11 23.2
22%
Operating profit/(loss)* £m
 
£7 .4m
12 7.4
(3.9) 11
Investments Investments’ mandate is to create valuable investments for the Group 
and to unlock prime long-term construction opportunities for other 
divisions. The division delivered a profit in 201 2 of £7 .4m (201 1: 
operating loss of £3.9m). This was driven, in particular, by the £7 .0m 
profit from the £24m sale of the division’s medical property investments 
and from a healthy performance from our investments portfolio during 
the year of £5.7m (201 1: £1.6m). The sale was in line with our strategy 
to realise investments as they mature to redeploy capital into new 
projects.
Creating opportunities for the Group
Investments has capitalised on its reputation and experience gained from 
the complex Bournemouth Town Centre LABV and has been appointed 
preferred partner by Slough Borough Council for its LABV joint venture. 
The LABV will benefit from the strength of our integrated capability and 
will procure work from our Affordable Housing and Construction and 
Infrastructure divisions over the lifetime of the partnership.
It’s about having  
capable teams
In Doncaster the Urban Regeneration team worked closely with the council to develop 
efficient new civic offices, to BREEAM Excellent rating, that would help them reduce 
costs and improve service delivery.
Urban Regeneration
Commercial and Cultural Quarter 
Doncaster
Directors’ report: business review
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 2 
Chief Executive’s review
29
Directors’ report: business review 02–42 Directors’ report: governance 43–66 Group consolidated financial statements 67–108 Company financial statements 109–120 Chief Executive’s review 
The division has also been appointed preferred developer for South 
Northamptonshire Council’s £38m Towcester Regeneration and Civic 
Accommodation project and has secured planning consents for a 
residential development, student accommodation and a multi-storey  
car park in the 20-year £500m+ Bournemouth Council LABV scheme.
Scotland has an extensive public -private partnership-based investment 
programme and is therefore an area of strategic importance for the 
division. The Western Territory Hub Programme Board has recently 
selected an Investments-led joint venture, the WellSpring Partnership,  
to deliver a pipeline of £160m public sector health and education 
projects over the next 10 years. The WellSpring Partnership will deliver 
new facilities for a number of public sector bodies in the Glasgow area.  
In East Scotland, the £95m Tayside Acute Adult Mental Health 
Development scheme has been completed through the Group’s 
integrated capability with design and construction services provided  
by our Construction and Infrastructure division. 
Positive pipeline of opportunities
The division has carried out a review of the changes to PFI announced in 
the Government’s launch of its successor, PF2, in the Autumn Statement. 
Whilst clarification is being sought around how particular aspects of the 
announcement will work in practice, it is considered to be a positive 
development. PF2 will be applied to the £2bn Priority Schools Building 
programme expected to come to the market in spring 201 3 and this  
is a major target for Investments as it hopes to leverage its track record 
within the education market and identify further opportunities for our 
Construction and Infrastructure division. It is anticipated that other 
Government departments will start to release a pipeline of schemes 
procured under this initiative later in the year, providing further 
opportunities for Investments and other Group divisions.
It’s about  
developing talent
Three more schools were successfully handed over for the first day of January 2013 
school term and Investments, in conjunction with their partners, are 90% towards 
their target of 200 apprenticeship opportunities across the life of the project.
Investments
Building Schools for the Future programme 
Hull
Directors’ report: business review
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 2 
Chief Executive’s review
30
Directors’ report: business review 02–42 Directors’ report: governance 43–66 Group consolidated financial statements 67–108 Company financial statements 109–120 Whilst current economic conditions persist, local authorities will need 
support from the private sector. The division will continue to identify 
innovative ways to structure and finance deals to allow its partners  
to realise the potential of under-utilised property assets, secure 
efficiencies and promote economic growth and social well-being.  
The division expects to realise further investments in 201 3 in order  
to recycle capital to create revenue for the Group and provide a 
sustainable return on investment.
Sustainability 
During 201 2, we continued to embed our Roadmap for Sustainability 
and work towards merging the Group’s procurement and sustainability 
functions to create a new team headed by the director of group 
sustainability and procurement. This will take effect from February  
201 3. The Group spends a significant amount through its supply chain 
each year and a closer alignment of the two functions will drive 
improvements in the Group’s sustainability performance. The Group 
achieved a significant reduction in its carbon emissions and increase in 
the tonnage of waste diverted from landfill during the year. The Group’s 
Total Commitment to ensuring that we offer a safe working environment 
for all employees is demonstrated by our health and safety performance. 
This is the third consecutive year in which the Group achieved its aim of 
less than 100 reportable incidents.
Measuring success
We measure success in many ways. We track our performance using 
traditional indicators including measuring growth in market share and  
in our regeneration pipeline, achieving quality margins and maintaining  
a healthy order book. In addition, in line with our philosophy of Perfect 
Delivery, we place equal importance on measuring success through  
non-financial metrics. Our safety record, sustainability performance  
and client satisfaction are all critical to the Group’s future prosperity. 
TO READ MORE ABOUT OUR KPIs: 
SEE PAGES 1 2 AND 1 3
Managing responsibly
Rigorous reviews of the business are undertaken regularly as we 
continue to carefully manage it through challenging times. Robust 
management of overheads, cash and working capital are prioritised  
to ensure we have sufficient cash resources to increase our investment  
in regeneration. 
Stringent credit checks and due diligence are undertaken to assess  
the financial health of clients to minimise bad debt and our supply chain 
members are also scrutinised to ensure we deliver maximum benefits  
to our clients. The supply chain is managed closely and we choose to 
build long-term relationships with suppliers and subcontractors who 
share our values and commitment to sustainability and safety so that, 
together, we provide a superior quality service.
Outlook
The market will remain challenging in the short-term with little sign  
of improvement expected as economic recovery continues to be slow.  
We will maintain our focus on careful contract selection, Perfect Delivery 
and tight management of overheads.
We have positioned the Group to capitalise on growth markets with 
barriers to entry and, in the longer term, the opportunity for superior 
returns. We will continue to pursue opportunities in these markets, 
promoting the synergies created by our integrated capabilities.
Whilst cautious over the short-term outlook, we are encouraged  
by the opportunities that exist in our chosen markets. With a sound 
forward order book of £3. 1bn (201 1: £3.4bn), with a further £0.5bn 
(201 1: £0.3bn) at preferred bidder stage, and a regeneration pipeline  
of £2. 1bn (201 1: £1.8bn), we believe the Group is well-positioned  
to maximise opportunities throughout the next year and beyond. 
John Morgan
Chief Executive 
19 February 201 3
Directors’ report: business review
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 2 
Chief Executive’s review
31
Directors’ report: business review 02–42 Directors’ report: governance 43–66 Group consolidated financial statements 67–108 Company financial statements 109–120
