 Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
04
Adrian Martin
Chairman
The Group’s 201 4 result has been held back by the performance of a small number of construction contracts 
in Construction & Infrastructure. However we were encouraged by a particularly strong performance from Urban 
Regeneration, reinforcing the belief in our strategy of utilising the cash generated through construction to invest  
in regeneration activities.
We have also seen further evidence of how the Group’s broad range of capabilities adds extra resilience to the cyclical 
nature of individual markets. Fit Out’s agility in swiftly responding to increasing industry upturn has resulted in the division’s 
results exceeding expectation.
As I stated last year , the continued investment in our people is critical for future success. We have launched the first phase 
of our People Promise which has focused on implementing tools around succession planning and talent management 
across the Group. In addition, the Group management team has been significantly strengthened and strong foundations 
have been laid to realise our ambition to be the employer of choice in our industry. 
We continue to work on a range of large-scale projects across the UK which are anticipated to deliver strong returns  
in the years ahead. With projects becoming increasingly complex, clients recognise the value we can add when two  
or more of our divisions work in collaboration. We continue to demonstrate across a number of large-scale projects how 
our integrated offering can significantly reduce complexity. 
Health and safety remains a priority for the Board. Everyone affected by our activities should benefit from an incident -free 
environment. We were saddened by the death of one of our subcontractors this year . The incident was thoroughly 
investigated and as a result no changes to our processes and procedures were needed. However , our core safety policies 
remain under constant review.
I am pleased that our resolve to identify and manage risks associated with climate change continues to be recognised.  
For the third year running we are the highest -scoring construction company in the CDP’s UK Climate Change Report 201 4. 
Geraldine Gallacher stepped down from the Board on 31 December 201 4 after a seven-year tenure and I would like  
to extend my thanks to Geraldine for her significant contribution. 
The Board proposes that the final dividend of 1 5.0p per share is held level with the prior year (201 3: 1 5.0p), resulting  
in a total dividend for the year of 27 .0p (201 3: 27 .0p). 
Our people have remained very positive in what has been a tough year for the Group and I would like to thank them for 
their continued support. As we enter 201 5, we will continue to face challenges, but we firmly believe that the medium- 
and long-term opportunities for the Group remain very attractive and that we have the right people in place to take our 
strategy for growth forwards.
Adrian Martin 
Chairman 
1 9 February 201 5
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report 2014
Chairman’s statement
 Strategic report 02–46 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–116 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–116 Strategic report 02–46
05
Strategic report
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report 2014
Developing talent
Developing talent
Terri Seel
Engineering degree sponsored 
through the Institution of Civil 
Engineers (‘ICE’) QUEST programme. 
Became graduate engineer for 
Construction & Infrastructure in 
201 2. Promoted in 2014 to section 
engineer, currently working on a 
railway under-bridge on a dual 
carriageway construction project.
Lisa Giglio
Joined Fit Out in 201 3. Site based 
project manager, working on  
large turnkey fit out projects.  
Now working towards a Masters  
in Construction Management. 
 
Samantha Metcalfe
Joined as a receptionist in 2008. 
Now proposals manager for all  
of the Investment division’s bids. 
Studying for a degree in Business 
and Management.
Mike Payton
Started as a geologist in 1988 and 
became design and construction 
director for Urban Regeneration  
in 2010. Appointed director  
of project management in 201 3.
Oliver Watson 
Joined Fit Out in 2004 as a 
management trainee. Obtained  
BSc Hons in Quantity Surveying. 
Promoted to quantity surveyor,  
then commercial manager  
and is now contracts manager  
on major projects.
 The People Promise is committed  
to enhancing career opportunities across  
the Group.
Trevor Haystead
Joined the Group as an apprentice 
bricklayer in 1982. Now operations 
manager for Affordable Housing’s 
East Anglia region.
