 Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review
The continued positive momentum expected 
within Fit Out, Affordable Housing and  
Urban Regeneration, together with further 
investment programmes in regeneration 
opportunities and supported by the 
improvement in the quality of our order  
book, provides confidence that the Group  
is well positioned to deliver overall growth  
in 201 5 and beyond.
John Morgan 
Chief Executive
 Strategic report 02–46 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–116
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report 2014
Chief Executive’s review 18 Financial statements 77–116 Governance 47–76 Strategic report 02–46
Strategic report
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report 2014
Chief Executive’s review 19
Group revenue for the year was 6% up on the prior year at £2.22bn, with  
all divisions delivering revenue growth with the exception of Construction  
& Infrastructure. Growth was driven by Fit Out (up 19%), Affordable  
Housing (up 1 1%) and Urban Regeneration (up 83%), whilst Construction  
& Infrastructure revenue was down 5%.
Group profitability was adversely impacted by a small number of 
construction contracts in Construction & Infrastructure which was 
announced in October and which offset strong performances from Fit Out 
and Urban Regeneration. This resulted in adjusted operating profit of 
£28.9m, down 14% on the prior year, with adjusted operating margin of 
1.3% (201 3: 1.6%). Operating profit included a significantly lower profit from 
the sale of investments of £1.9m compared to the prior year (201 3: £9.9m). 
2014 has seen a significant shift in the balance of our profits with the 
anticipated increase in contribution from Urban Regeneration, reinforcing  
our confidence in the Group’s long-term strategy of investment in both 
construction and regeneration activities. Urban Regeneration’s performance 
has been recognised by winning the coveted Estates Gazette’s National 
Property Company of the Year 2014 award.
The Group’s committed order book* as at 31 December 2014 was £2.7bn, 
an increase of 1 1% since the previous year end, driven by growth in the order 
books of Fit Out (up 70%), Affordable Housing (up 16%), Urban Regeneration 
(up 38%) and Construction & Infrastructure (up 3%). Our regeneration and 
development pipeline has grown by 6% to £3.2bn (201 3: £3.0bn) with our 
Urban Regeneration division delivering a strong set of results and Affordable 
Housing now well positioned to increase its contributions from regeneration 
in 2016 and beyond.
The general operating environment for construction has undoubtedly 
remained challenging this year despite the more positive market conditions. 
Margins have remained under pressure from cost inflation and skills 
shortages and this has been most acute in London and the South East. 
However, as a result of the upturn in activity, the quality of our order book 
has improved as the tendering process returns to higher levels of negotiated 
two-stage tenders rather than fixed price contracts. Our Fit Out division has 
traded strongly, performing above expectation through its ability to react 
quickly to increased occupier confidence and capitalising on its reputation  
as a leading specialist in fit out and refurbishment projects. Across the  
Group, the divisions have been successful in securing major contracts, 
winning positions on new frameworks and delivering a high level of work 
through long-term frameworks.
Within the Construction & Infrastructure division, a flatter management 
structure has been introduced to create a more efficient company for 
growth. We have welcomed Pat Boyle to the business with overall 
responsibility for the division’s construction and design business and Nick 
Fletcher has taken on responsibility for the division’s infrastructure activities. 
Both are highly respected and experienced professionals, who report  
directly to me, and they are working closely together to deliver complex 
integrated construction and infrastructure projects for our clients.
More than ever, collaboration is a vital component in the UK construction 
industry today. We continue to work closely with clients and partners to  
gain a real understanding of the challenges they face and to build long-term 
relationships. Our divisions are identifying opportunities to work together  
to secure competitive advantage and demonstrate how our integrated 
capability can add value. We continue to develop stronger relationships 
with our supply chain to ensure that together we can deliver ever higher 
standards in quality and safety though our philosophy of Perfect Delivery.
We remain committed to sustainability. As one of the UK’s leading 
construction groups, we take our responsibilities seriously within our sphere 
of influence and strive to minimise any adverse impact of our operations on 
the communities within which we operate and on the wider environment. 
Successful sustainable business practice creates value by enabling growth, 
delivering cost savings and enhancing our risk management processes.  
It also provides a key differentiator for the Group as we continue our focus  
on attracting and retaining the best talent in the industry.
Looking ahead to 201 5, lower returns in Construction & Infrastructure are 
expected to remain for at least the first half of the year, as lower margin 
construction contracts tendered in 201 2–201 3 are worked through to 
completion. However, the continued positive momentum expected within  
Fit Out, Affordable Housing and Urban Regeneration, together with further 
investment programmes in regeneration opportunities, and supported by  
the improvement in the quality of our order book, provides confidence that 
the Group is well positioned to deliver overall growth in 201 5 and beyond.
Business Review
The following business review is given on an adjusted basis, unless otherwise 
stated.
Order book and regeneration and development pipeline
The divisional split of the Group’s committed order book* as at 31 December 
2014 is shown below.
 FY 2014 FY 201 3 % change 
Order book £m £m 
Construction & Infrastructure 1,537 1,499 +3% 
Fit Out  241 142 +70% 
Affordable Housing  
 – construction and services 673 581 +16% 
Urban Regeneration 197 143 +38% 
Investments 19 38 -50% 
Inter-divisional eliminations (9) – 
Group committed order book 2,658 2,403 + 1 1%
 *‘Committed order book’ comprises the secured order book and framework order book.  
The secured order book represents the Group’s share of future revenue that will be derived 
from signed contracts or letters of intent. The framework order book represents the  
Group’s expected share of revenue from the frameworks on which the Group has been 
appointed. This excludes prospects where confirmation has been received as preferred 
bidder only, with no formal contract or letter of intent in place.
In addition, the Group’s regeneration and development pipeline
†
 was £3.2bn, 
an increase of 6% from the previous year end.
 FY 2014 FY 201 3 % change 
Regeneration and development pipeline £m £m 
Affordable Housing – mixed tenure 770 715 +8% 
Urban Regeneration 2,215 1,953 +13% 
Investments 242 368 -34%
Group regeneration and  
 development pipeline 3,227 3,036 +6%
 
†
‘Regeneration and development pipeline’ represents the Group’s share of the gross 
development value of secured schemes including the development value of open market 
housing schemes. 
Basis of preparation 
The term ‘adjusted’ excludes the impact of intangible amortisation of £2.4m (2013: intangible amortisation (£2.7m), exceptional operating 
items (£14.7m) and the deferred tax credit arising due to the change in the UK corporation tax (£2.5m)). 
Chief Executive’s review continued Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review continued
Construction & Infrastructure
-5%
-72%
-70bps
Revenue £m 
2013 1,234
2014 1,172
Operating profit – adjusted* £m
2013 12.7
2014 3.5
Operating margin – adjusted %
2013 1.0
2014 0.3
The Construction & Infrastructure result for the year was down significantly 
on the prior year, being severely impacted by the performance of the 
Construction activities in the second half.
Divisional revenue of £1, 1 72m was down 5% on the prior year (201 3: 
£1,234m), primarily driven by lower activity in Construction arising from 
ongoing contract selectivity and a focus on the operational delivery of active 
projects. Split by type of activity, Construction accounted for 55% of 
divisional revenue at £639m, which was down 1 1% compared to prior year, 
whilst Infrastructure was 45% of divisional revenue at £533m, up 3%.
Whilst the Infrastructure business performed reasonably well across the year, 
delivery pressures in London and the South’s Construction activities during 
the second half resulted in an escalation of costs and increased forecast costs 
to complete, thereby adversely impacting profitability and margin. These 
delivery pressures related mainly to a small number of construction contracts 
which are all due to complete within the first half of 201 5 and which all 
experienced programme slippage and increases in costs to complete as a 
result of inflation and additional unforecast resource requirements. The full 
impact was mitigated in part by further overhead cost savings and provision 
movements including property dilapidation provisions no longer required.
Consequently, divisional operating margin reduced to 0.3% (201 3: 1.0%), 
giving an operating profit of £3.5m (201 3: £1 2.7m).
In order to address these operational issues and to support the platform  
for future profitable growth, management teams have been changed and 
strengthened at both local and divisional levels during the year. In enhancing 
the skills and experience in the division this has reinforced the necessary 
systems and disciplines within bid selection, winning work and procurement 
to support future margin improvement.
The committed order book at the year end was £1,537m, up 3% since the 
start of the year. Importantly, the quality of the order book has improved 
significantly, with only 1 5% of the order book by value being won through 
competitive single-stage procurement processes with the remaining 85% 
being derived through negotiated/framework/two-stage bidding 
procurement processes. At the same time last year, the proportion of work 
derived through negotiated/framework/two-stage bidding procurement 
processes was only 62% by value and this positive shift in the balance of 
orders by procurement type supports the opportunity for future margin 
improvement.
In terms of market sectors served, the largest market was Transport 
(Highways, Aviation and Rail) at 33% of divisional revenue, with Education 
remaining a significant 23% and Water contributing 1 1%.
Within Highways, significant work has been won through the Highways 
Agency’s National Major Projects Framework. Awards have included the 
appointment, in joint venture and as one of four delivery partners, to a 
£184m contract to upgrade 1 7 miles of the M60 and M62 to a smart 
motorway and also, in joint venture, a £35m barrier renewal works package 
between junctions 19 and 16 of the M1 to facilitate a future smart 
motorway scheme. Building on this success, the division has been appointed, 
in joint venture, by the Highways Agency to the largest ever framework for 
the improvement of England’s motorways and major A roads. The four-year 
framework, with an option to extend by a further two years, is estimated to 
be worth up to £1 50m per annum to the joint venture. Within Aviation, the 
division has been selected as one of four partners at Heathrow Airport to 
deliver a £1.5bn programme of upgrades and improvements over the next 
five years following the completion of the rehabilitation of the northern  
and southern runways.
An integrated approach to community regeneration
Investment
• Slough Borough Council
• Investments
Construction
• Construction & Infrastructure
• Affordable Housing
Joint venture partnership delivering 
housing and social infrastructure to 
Slough over a 1 5-year period
In Rail, operating centres in Manchester and Rugby, worth £19.7m and £1 7m 
respectively, have been handed over and a £1 1 3m position on the £250m 
EGIP alliance has been awarded by Network Rail. This two-year project will 
deliver a critical rail infrastructure upgrade and forms part of the £7 42m 
Scottish Government-funded investment to transform transport in the 
country. Work has also been secured through the Multi-Asset Framework 
Agreement including a £20m contract, in joint venture, to refurbish roof 
spans at Paddington Station.
In Water, the division continues to work within three frameworks, all of which 
have been extended into AMP6, the 201 5–2020 asset management period.
Highlights within Energy have included new framework agreements and 
awards within existing long-term frameworks. Western Power Distribution 
has awarded the division a three-year framework agreement, with two 
one-year extension options, at an estimated annual value of over £30m to 
deliver the excavation, cable laying and reinstatement works within its West 
Midlands region. A five-year agreement, in joint venture, has been signed  
 Strategic report 02–46 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–116
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report 2014
Chief Executive’s review 20 Financial statements 77–116 Governance 47–76 Strategic report 02–46
Strategic report
for electricity transmission overhead line work with Scottish Hydro Electric 
Transmission plc and a position on National Grid’s National Onshore 
Underground Cabling framework has been secured. In the nuclear sector the 
division, along with The S. M. Stoller Corp. and Newport News Nuclear, both 
subsidiary companies of Huntington Ingalls Industries, has signed a long-term 
agreement to work together to offer a combined delivery capability to  
the UK nuclear market. Given the UK Government investment in the nuclear 
industry, the collaboration enables the division to provide an enhanced  
range of new build and decommissioning services. At Sellafield, the division 
continues to provide a range of essential infrastructure asset services 
through its joint venture Infrastructure Strategic Alliance contract. Secured  
in 201 2, the contract has a potential value of £1. 1bn over a possible 
maximum duration of 1 5 years.
An integrated approach to modernising a historic market town
Investment
• South Northamptonshire Council
• Investments
Construction
• Affordable Housing 
• Construction & Infrastructure
Regeneration and preservation  
of the Moat Lane area in Towcester 
with a new civic building and high 
quality retail, commercial and 
residential developments
Within other parts of Infrastructure, the division has continued to target 
growth sectors with high barriers to entry. It is currently working on some  
of the UK’s most complex civil infrastructure projects including providing  
its industry-leading expertise in Tunnelling in joint venture on Thames  
Water’s £635m Lee Tunnel and on the C510 Whitechapel and Liverpool 
Street Station tunnels contract for Crossrail.
The value of the division’s integrated Construction and Infrastructure 
capabilities was recognised in the award of, alongside two other contractors, 
a position on a major £300m eight-year redevelopment programme for  
BAE Systems which will transform its submarine building capabilities. The 
programme will include a mix of new build projects and the refurbishment  
of existing facilities in what is the most significant redevelopment of the 
Barrow-in-Furness site since the 1980s. 
Within Education, the division will play a significant role within the PF2 PSBP , 
North West batch following the appointment of the Investments division  
and Equitix Limited by the Education Funding Agency as the selected bidder 
to deliver five secondary and seven primary schools across the region.  
Also within Education, the London Borough of Newham has awarded the 
division a circa £14m contract to upgrade six primary schools.
Overall, the division’s operating environment has improved over the year  
as the market recovery has gained traction, despite the challenges presented 
by cost inflation driven by labour and material demands. Looking ahead to 
201 5, continued lower returns are expected through the first half at least  
as the construction contracts in London and the South are completed  
and other lower margin construction contracts procured during the more  
difficult pricing environment of 201 2–201 3 are worked through to  
delivery and completion. Thereafter, the division is expected to generate 
increasing margins and returns from the higher quality order book.
Fit Out
+19%
+38%
+40bps
Revenue £m 
2013 427
2014 507
Operating profit – adjusted* £m
2013 10.9
2014 15.0
Operating margin – adjusted %
2013 2.6
2014 3.0
Fit Out has delivered a strong performance in the year, driven by improved 
market conditions and the division’s ongoing focus on operational delivery. 
Revenue of £507m (201 3: £427m) was up 19%, with operating margin 
increasing to 3.0%, resulting in operating profit of £1 5.0m (201 3: £10.9m), 
up 38%.
 
Creating a workspace that stimulates innovation
Project
Walbrook Building,  
London
Client
Xchanging
Division
Fit Out
Global technology company Xchanging’s 
strapline is ‘inspiring innovation’ and their  
new offices were designed and built to  
do just that.
The 50,000 sq ft office in the Walbrook 
Building was designed for activity- 
based working, with spaces for private 
conversations, quiet work, phone  
booths and client areas. Hot-desking was 
introduced, with each person allocated  
a locker rather than a desk. High-tech 
demonstration rooms provided places  
to showcase Xchanging’s innovative 
solutions. 
The new office reflects Xchanging’s core 
values and provides a more engaging 
environment for their employees 
and clients.
Chief Executive’s review continued
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report 2014
Chief Executive’s review 21 Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review continued
The division has successfully balanced the significant upturn in activity  
and the consequent demands placed on the supply chain, with improved 
operational performance which has supported the margin improvement 
in the year. The second half of the year particularly has seen a significant 
increase in activity in line with the improving market conditions, with 62%  
of annual revenue being generated during that period. Additionally, the  
upturn in bidding activity and number of contract wins in the year has led  
to the committed order book at the year end being £241m, up a strong  
70% from the prior year end, and includes a higher level of contracts  
on less onerous terms and conditions.
The London region accounted for 67% of revenue (201 3: 7 4%), with other 
regions at 33% (201 3: 26%) all showing strong revenue and profit growth  
in the year. Split by type of work, 79% of revenue was traditional fit out  
work, compared to 21% ‘design and build’, whilst 7 4% of revenue related  
to fitting out of existing space (31% refurbishment ‘in occupation’),  
compared to 26% which was new office fit out.
A number of notable appointments in the year have emphasised the division’s 
expertise in refurbishment of offices whilst in occupation. KPMG appointed 
the division to fit out 21 5,000 sq ft of office space in Canary Wharf, along 
with client and executive areas at its W1 premises, with a combined value  
of over £40m, and the division won the Canadian High Commission’s £30m 
renovation and refurbishment project of Canada House and an adjacent 
property.
Additionally, the division’s Guardian News & Media project in London received 
a national accolade when presented with the British Council for Office’s 2014 
‘Test of Time’ award. The division successfully fitted out the 142,000 sq ft 
purpose-built Kings Place that provides a setting fit for the world’s oldest 
independent newspaper whilst providing the technological and environmental 
requirements demanded by a global media brand.
Outside London, a high level of work has been secured through public sector 
construction frameworks, working alongside Construction & Infrastructure. 
These include major projects for Reading Borough Council through the iESE 
framework, for Bristol City Council through the Construction Framework 
South West and also for Luton Borough Council under the SMARTE East 
Framework. In Birmingham, fit out is underway on the VOX Conference 
Centre, an integral part of the new circa 590,000 sq ft Resorts World 
complex on the NEC campus.
Split by end market sector, key markets served are commercial offices (7 4% 
of revenue), higher education (8% of revenue), together with retail banking, 
government and local authority work and work for charitable organisations.
The commercial office sector remains the division’s core market, which  
has driven growth throughout the year through continuing positive market 
sentiment, the predicted spike in lease expiries combined with a shortage  
of premium Grade A office space, and ongoing pressure on central and local 
government to consolidate property portfolios.
Higher education has presented some positive opportunities for the division 
as competition amongst universities to attract students remains strong.  
In London, the division is working for eight leading universities, including  
a major contract for University College London and new wins for London 
School of Economics and Kingston University. Retail banking continues  
to offer opportunities as banks continue to consolidate and rationalise  
their estates.
Looking ahead, it is anticipated that Fit Out will build on the current positive 
momentum through 201 5 and beyond and with its commitment to 
operational improvement and customer focus, the division is well placed  
to deliver further margin and profit growth.
Affordable Housing
Total divisional revenue of £423m was up 1 1% (201 3: £381m), whilst 
operating profit of £6.0m was down 30% on the prior year (201 3: £8.6m), 
impacted by an expected loss of £3.5m in the response maintenance 
activities.
Affordable Housing’s activities are divided into two main categories: 
Regeneration (27% of revenue) which refers to the division’s mixed-tenure 
regeneration housing schemes; and Construction & Services (73% of 
revenue) which includes new build housing contracting and planned and 
response maintenance services. Together, the division delivers a full range  
of housing solutions for its partners and customers.
In Regeneration, revenue was up 6% to £1 1 5m (201 3: £108m) with 
operating profit of £10.7m. Of this, 69% of revenue related to open market 
sales at an average sales price of £167 ,000, whilst 31% of revenue related  
to approximately 300 units through the social housing contracting element 
of the mixed-tenure schemes.
Capital employed in the Regeneration activities at the year end was £1 23m, 
up by 27% over the year. Of this, £75m is capital invested in returning  
active mixed-tenure schemes, £30m relates to historic shared equity  
loans and rental properties and £18m relates to land not currently being 
actively developed.
The 8% increase in its regeneration and development pipeline at the year  
end to £770m (201 3: £71 5m) has reinforced the market position and profit 
potential of this area of the business. Confidence in the housing market, 
supported by the Government’s Help to Buy initiative, has resulted in new 
opportunities in mixed-tenure projects developed in partnership with housing 
associations and local authorities and increased sales activity across all 
regions.
During the year, the division has capitalised on public sector land 
opportunities procured through the GLA and the HCA Partner Panels. The 
division has positions on the four-year London Development Panel which is 
expected to procure up to £5bn of housing-led mixed-use developments  
on public land and on all four Regional Lots on the HCA’s four-year Delivery 
Partner Panel 2 £4bn housing framework. New awards this year include  
the London Borough of Enfield’s major £50m Ponders End Electric Quarter 
development, the appointment as preferred partner for the delivery  
of 600 homes working in partnership with the Borough Council of King’s  
Lynn and West Norfolk and the commencement of the four-year £40m 
mixed-tenure homes scheme in Cockermouth, West Cumbria.
+11%
-30%
-90bps
Revenue £m 
2013 381
2014 423
Operating profit – adjusted* £m
2013 8.6
2014 6.0
Operating margin – adjusted %
2013 2.3
2014 1.4
 Strategic report 02–46 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–116
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report 2014
Chief Executive’s review 22 Financial statements 77–116 Governance 47–76 Strategic report 02–46
Strategic report
Positive momentum has also been maintained across all the division’s existing 
landmark regeneration programmes, further underpinning the division’s 
expertise in delivering complex, long-term schemes. In London, work has 
started on site on the London Borough of Barking and Dagenham six-year 
£83.8m Lymington Mews housing development and demolition is underway 
on the £270m Woolwich regeneration programme where 1,500 mixed-
tenure homes are being created in partnership with Royal Borough of 
Greenwich and asra Housing Group. Both these schemes will require working 
capital investment through 201 5, with the resultant profits being generated 
in 2016 and beyond.
Working as a partner in the Compendium Living joint venture with Riverside 
Housing, the circa 10-year £108m Castleward Urban Village project is 
moving forward as the division progresses the first phase, creating 164 
mixed-tenure homes and 1 2 commercial units.
Collaboration with other Group divisions has provided additional growth 
opportunities with the division delivering quality affordable housing within 
large-scale mixed-use regeneration programmes alongside Investments, 
Urban Regeneration and Construction & Infrastructure.
In Construction & Services new build housing contracting revenue of £1 39m 
(201 3: £92m) equates to approximately 1, 1 50 units completed and has 
increased by 51% with the business maintaining its rigorous selection process 
although margins have been impacted by materials and skills shortages as 
well as inflationary pressures and continued competitive tendering. Scotland 
has proved to be one of the most successful regions with over £59m of 
contracts secured. Increased levels of local authority work have been won  
as councils are granted new powers to borrow to fund the construction of 
new council homes. At MOD Stafford, the division is on schedule to complete 
a £51m contract and hand over 346 new homes for Army families returning 
to the UK.
In planned maintenance, revenue of £108m (201 3: £1 1 3m) represented  
a 4% decline on last year. The market continues to provide a steady flow  
of work as local authorities and housing associations invest in improving 
housing stock. The division has capitalised on its proven track record  
in external environment improvements, further extending its specialist 
expertise in working on high-rise tower blocks through its appointments  
to deliver circa £1 1m of high-rise improvement programmes in Aberdeen 
and Glasgow. The division is currently working for Sandwell Metropolitan 
Borough Council on the refurbishment of high-rise buildings and the 
relationship has been further extended through the appointment to  
a framework that will undertake a £50m package of repairs and 
improvements to 6,000 council homes.
Response maintenance revenue of £61m (201 3: £68m) has declined by 
10%, with an operating loss as expected of £3.5m (201 3: loss £1.2m).  
As part of the repositioning and turnaround of the business, a new and 
sector-experienced management team has been recruited during the year 
and investment made in business systems to improve operational efficiencies 
and enhance productivity and delivery. Additionally, the recent rebranding 
and relaunch of the business as Morgan Sindall Property Services paves  
the way to offer a broader property service solution to a client base across 
the rest of the Group, with a plan to achieve a minimum of break-even  
by 2016.
A key challenge for response maintenance remains winning work on 
acceptable terms and progress has been made in this respect. During the 
year, a number of contracts have been won including the provision of  
facilities management services within a 28-year £32.8m North Tyneside 
Council Sheltered Housing PFI and a five-year £22m agreement with  
Estuary Housing Association to provide repairs services to its stock  
of over 3,900 homes.
Overall, the committed order book for Construction & Services was 
£673m (201 3: £581m), an increase of 16%. Of this, response maintenance 
accounted for £355m (201 3: £257m).
Looking ahead, Affordable Housing will continue with its strategy of growing 
its regeneration pipeline, increasing development across all its existing 
schemes and winning new opportunities to unlock land and deliver complex 
mixed-tenure schemes through local authority partnerships and collaborative 
working with Group divisions. Due to the timing of current developments and 
new opportunities, an increase in working capital is expected in 201 5, with 
significant profit benefit anticipated in 2016 and beyond. Notwithstanding 
this, 201 5 is expected to show margin and profit growth through  
a combination of its existing mixed-tenure schemes, a more positive 
contracting environment and an improved performance from response 
maintenance.
 
Providing a 24-hour reactive repairs  
service for 3,300 homes
Project
Response and planned  
maintenance services – 
Essex, Greater London 
and Suffolk
Client
Estuary Housing 
Association
Division
Affordable Housing
Estuary Housing Association appointed the 
division to provide repairs services to over 
3,300 homes. Residents are provided with  
a 24-hour, 365 day-a-year, reactive repairs 
service. The five-year, £22m contract also 
includes planned maintenance programmes 
and work carried out to refurbish empty 
properties to return them to rentable 
condition. 
Sharing Estuary’s commitment to 
communities, the division expects to create 
eight apprenticeships over the life of the 
contract as well as a significant number of 
work placements and training programmes.
Chief Executive’s review continued
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report 2014
Chief Executive’s review 23 Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review continued
An integrated approach to new and improved schools
Investment
• Equitix Limited and Education 
Funding Agency
• Investments
Construction
• Construction & Infrastructure
Priority Schools Building Programme, 
North West batch – five new 
secondary and seven primary 
schools that will benefit 8, 1 50 pupils 
and also create 1 24 nursery places
Urban Regeneration
Urban Regeneration has delivered a strong performance, with a significant 
increase in operating profit to £10.0m (201 3: £1.0m) generated from its 
development portfolio as scheme phases reach completion. Working with 
landowners and public sector partners to unlock value from underdeveloped 
assets and bring about urban renewal, the division has also increased its 
regeneration and development pipeline by 1 3% to £2.2bn.
Capital employed
1
 at the year end was £49.4m. This is calculated after 
deducting non-recourse debt of £1 7m and deferred consideration on the 
purchase of interests in the ISIS Waterside Regeneration Joint Venture  
of £14m. Average capital employed
1
 was £49.9m, with the overall return  
on average capital employed
2
 of 17%.
Major contributors to the increase in profit include completions of the  
sixth phase of the Smithfield Northern Quarter regeneration scheme in 
Manchester, KPMG’s pre-let regional headquarters in Leeds and a multi-
storey car park in Stockport.
Additionally, good progress has been made with developments through its 
two strategic joint ventures, the government-backed English Cities Fund 
(‘ECf’) and ISIS Waterside Regeneration. The success of ECf, a partnership 
with the HCA and Legal & General Property, has resulted in completions of 
the hotel and car park elements of the Salford Central regeneration scheme, 
plus completions at Canning Town and Plymouth. Through ISIS Waterside 
Regeneration, a partnership with the Canal & River Trust, profits have been 
generated from completions at Brentford and Islington Wharf, Manchester.
+83%
Average capital employed
1
 (last 12 months) £m 
2013 53.5
2014 49.9
2013 51.4
2014 49.4
Capital employed
1
 at year end £m
Revenue £m
+900% Operating profit – adjusted* %
2013 62
2014 113
2013 1.0
2014 10.0
 
Building 41 3 new mixed-tenure,  
energy-efficient homes
Project
Lymington Fields, 
Dagenham
Partners
Greater London 
Authority and  
Home Group
Division
Affordable Housing
Lymington Fields was one of the first sites  
to be released by the Mayor of London  
as part of his drive to unlock development 
on public sector-owned land in East London. 
This brownfield site regeneration project 
started in January 2014 and will deliver  
41 3 new homes by 2019. Of these,  
252 homes will be for private sale by  
the Affordable Housing division and  
161 affordable homes for Home Group for  
rent and shared ownership. All homes will 
incorporate energy-efficient features 
including photovoltaic solar panels and  
high efficiency boilers.
The £83.8m development is part of 
Affordable Housing’s strategy to deliver 
large-scale mixed-tenure regeneration 
projects across England, Scotland  
and Wales. 
 Strategic report 02–46 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–116
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report 2014
Chief Executive’s review 24 Financial statements 77–116 Governance 47–76 Strategic report 02–46
Strategic report
Across all its developments, improved residential sales totalling 347 units 
(201 3: 1 58) have underpinned the performance, with schemes prioritising 
their residential content to meet national demand. Good progress has  
also been made in the growing institutional private rented sector (‘PRS’)  
with investors forward buying over 200 units within schemes located 
in Manchester, Bristol and Lewisham.
Four new development agreements valued at £300m have been secured 
during the year, including the Warrington Town Centre development and  
an agreement with Lambeth Council to deliver a £1 35m regeneration 
scheme in Brixton.
Within the currently active schemes, planning consents have been granted 
on 10 major projects with a total development value of £500m. Most 
notable was the full approval of the planning application for the £107m 
Marischal Square development, fully funded by Aviva Investors and set  
to transform a key location in Aberdeen city centre. Other projects which  
are currently being advanced are the first phase of the South Shields 365 
regeneration project, Phase Three of the £180m Rathbone Market scheme 
in Canning Town through ECf, creating 216 homes, and Logic Leeds, where 
work has commenced on the division’s 1 10-acre manufacturing and 
distribution development in the Leeds City Regional Enterprise Zone.
Major milestones include the commencement of construction on the first 
phase of the £200m Lewisham Gateway development in South East London. 
A total of £280m of ongoing construction activity is currently underway 
across 18 sites with other major site starts including the John Lewis at  
Home and Waitrose stores in Basingstoke, new office buildings in Chester 
and Salford and a new state-of-the-art Innovation Centre at the £100m 
Northshore regeneration scheme in Stockton-on-Tees. Additionally,  
the division continues to add value to partnerships and create valuable 
opportunities for sister divisions, providing work for Construction & 
Infrastructure and Affordable Housing on four major schemes. Affordable 
Housing is also a joint venture partner on two major regeneration schemes  
in Scotland and at Northshore in Stockton-on-Tees.
Looking forward, Urban Regeneration is expected to continue to deliver 
strong profits as schemes within its forward development programme 
mature, providing a consistent annual double digit return on average capital 
employed
2
. With over 750 residential units scheduled for completion  
in 201 5, the division is well placed to help meet the demand for quality 
homes in sustainable regeneration locations as it continues to bring  
forward residential elements and increase its footprint across regeneration 
areas. As a result, further working capital will be invested through 201 5  
and 2016 to support the division’s ongoing developments and overall 
regeneration strategy.
1  Capital employed is calculated as total assets (excluding goodwill, intangibles and cash)  
less total liabilities (excluding corporation tax, deferred tax and inter-company financing). 
At year end, non-recourse debt was £17.0m (2013: £8.1m) and deferred consideration 
was £13.6m (2013: £17.8m). Average non-recourse debt was £16.2m (2013: £3.9m) 
and average deferred consideration was £15.7m (2013: £18.3m).
2  Return on average capital employed = adjusted operating profit (less interest on 
non-recourse debt less unwind of discount on deferred consideration) divided by  
average capital employed. Interest on non-recourse debt was £1.2m (2013: £0.2m)  
and the unwind of discount on deferred consideration was £0.5m (2013: £0.6m).
 
Transforming derelict land into a vibrant,  
mixed-use community
Project
Millbay, Plymouth 
Partners
Legal & General  
and the Homes and 
Communities Agency 
Division
Urban Regeneration
As development partner in English Cities  
Fund, Urban Regeneration is transforming  
the derelict 15-acre Brunel docks area  
into an exciting new harbourside community. 
The scheme will deliver a mix of residential  
and commercial space, including bars, 
restaurants, and shops.
The first and second phases of predominantly 
residential development are complete and  
102 homes at Quadrant Quay are due for 
completion in early 2015.
In addition to its own investment, the division 
has leveraged other investment into the area. 
The total investment in Millbay to date is in 
excess of £90m.
Chief Executive’s review continued
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report 2014
Chief Executive’s review 25 Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review continued
Investments
The strategic rationale for Investments is to unlock prime long-term 
construction and regeneration opportunities for other divisions and create 
value from investments for the Group. The division creates long-term 
strategic partnerships with public and private sector organisations to realise 
the potential of under-utilised assets, to promote sustained economic  
growth through regeneration and to drive cost efficiencies through 
innovative and integrated estate management solutions.
During the year, the division has disposed of its interests in the Hull Building 
Schools for the Future programme for £5.9m, resulting in a profit of £1.7m 
and its shares in PFF Lancashire Ltd for £0.3m, resulting in a profit of £0.2m. 
The divisional result also reflected the impact of a non-cash impairment 
charge of £1m, which is non-recurring by its nature, against the carrying 
value of one of its remaining investments.
In regeneration, the division has an acknowledged track record in Local  
Asset Backed Vehicle (‘LABV’) joint ventures and land swaps, providing 
commercial structuring, financing solutions and development expertise. 
Steady momentum has been maintained across its major programmes, the 
£1bn 1 5-year Slough Borough Council LABV and the £350m+ 20-year 
Bournemouth Town Centre LABV, with work procured for Construction  
& Infrastructure and Affordable Housing. In Bournemouth, two major 
projects have been handed over, with a private rental sector residential 
project scheduled to commence in 2016 and two further residential 
schemes to begin in 201 5. In Slough, the £16m community development 
‘The Curve’ is scheduled for completion in 201 5 and detailed planning for  
73 homes has been granted. The £38m Towcester mixed-use Regeneration 
and Civic Accommodation project is also underway in partnership with 
Construction & Infrastructure and Affordable Housing.
-85%
Average capital employed
1
 (last 12 months) £m 
2013 22.7
2014 17 .3
Capital employed
1
 at year end £m
2013 18.7
2014 20.2
Operating profit – adjusted* %
2013 6.1
2014 0.9
 
Regenerating town centre with 1. 1m sq ft,  
mixed-use development
Project
Talbot Gateway, 
Blackpool
Partner
Blackpool Borough 
Council
Division
Urban Regeneration
Talbot Gateway is a major mixed-use 
scheme, delivered in partnership with 
Blackpool Borough Council, which is 
regenerating the area around Blackpool 
North railway station and Talbot Road.  
It will provide a new central business  
district and civic quarter with 1. 1m sq ft  
of development including Grade A offices, 
a hotel, a refurbished multi-storey car  
park, a supermarket, retail units, cafés  
and restaurants.
The first phase of development, comprising  
a new council office building, Sainsbury’s 
supermarket and a refurbished 650-space 
multi-storey car park, was completed in 
2014. The second phase will deliver a new 
town centre hotel on the site of an existing 
surface car park.
An integrated approach to sustainable housing
Development
• Doncaster Metropolitan  
District Council
• Urban Regeneration
Construction
• Affordable Housing
‘The Gables’ – 54 modern, high 
quality homes in Doncaster with  
low running costs and maintenance 
needs
 Strategic report 02–46 Governance 47–76 Financial statements 77–116
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report 2014
Chief Executive’s review 26 Financial statements 77–116 Governance 47–76 Strategic report 02–46
Strategic report
The division has developed significant PFI expertise within the education 
sector and has been appointed with Equitix Limited by the Education  
Funding Agency as its selected bidder for the PF2 PSBP , North West batch. 
With a capital value of between £80m and £1 20m, the programme will 
provide five secondary and seven primary schools that will benefit from 
Construction & Infrastructure’s experience in school design and construction.
An integrated approach to new health centres in Scotland
Investment
• Western Territory hub 
Programmes Board
• Investments
Construction
• Construction & Infrastructure
Part of the hub West Scotland joint 
venture, a 10-year programme  
to deliver £200m of public sector 
infrastructure projects across West 
Scotland, including a primary school, 
community centre and five 
healthcare centres
The division has also secured increased workloads through the WellSpring 
Partnership, which it leads in Scotland and which is delivering £200m public 
sector healthcare and education projects for the Western Territory Hub 
Programme Board and the Scottish Futures Trust. £30m of schemes have 
been delivered this year through the Group’s integrated capability, with 
design and construction services provided by Construction & Infrastructure. 
Through its community solutions business, the division has continued to 
contribute revenue and profit through a growing number of management 
and service agreements across a portfolio of health and local authority 
buildings with an asset value of around £750m. With its services in  
increasing demand from NHS Trusts and local authorities seeking greater 
efficiencies, Investments anticipates future opportunities to work with  
new public sector partners.
In looking to widen the scope of business opportunities for Investments,  
the division is focusing on transferring knowledge and specialist expertise 
developed across its strategic alliances to new areas of its core sectors, 
healthcare and education. By positioning itself as development partner  
with private operators, the division is looking to capitalise on the increasing 
number of Foundation Trusts seeking to open private patient units,  
whilst also supporting health services, local authorities and care providers 
across the country as it delivers a rolling programme of supported living 
accommodation and services through its strategic joint venture HB 
Community Solutions.
Looking forward, delivering projects within its long-term regeneration 
programmes will remain the key strategic focus for 201 5. At the same  
time, the division will maintain its drive to identify opportunities to work  
with new partners and clients, creating innovative capital-efficient 
partnerships and leveraging its expertise in project finance, development  
and asset management and the Group’s integrated delivery capability.
1  Capital employed = total assets (excluding goodwill, intangibles, corporation tax  
credit and cash) less total liabilities.
Note:  
Directors’ valuation of investments can only be made in circumstances where future  
cash flows are near certain. The Investments division holds a number of interests in 
developments, arrangements and schemes which are also included in ‘capital employed’. 
Where directors’ valuation is appropriate, current valuation is £3.0m relating to two  
(2013: four) investments with carrying value of £3.0m.
 
Innovating to minimise passenger disruption
Project
Haymarket Station, 
Edinburgh
Client
Network Rail
Division
Construction & 
Infrastructure
Scotland’s fourth busiest railway station was 
redeveloped to increase capacity. The Grade 
A listed station now has a larger, modern 
concourse with ticket office and retail space, 
improved platforms, new bridging structure 
and redeveloped entrance.
As a key stop on the Edinburgh-Glasgow 
route, continued operation was crucial and  
the team worked closely with Network Rail, 
ScotRail and station staff on a daily basis.  
To minimise passenger disruption, an 
innovative prefabrication system was  
devised to install the bridge by assembling  
two 100 tonne-modules away from the 
tracks and lifting them into position with  
a 1,000 tonne crane. The method was  
tested using a 4D Building Information  
Model (‘BIM’).
The £25m project won a number of 2014 
awards including Rail Supplier of the Year  
at the Scottish Transport Awards and  
the Community Engagement category  
at the Network Rail Partnership Awards.
Chief Executive’s review continued
Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report 2014
Chief Executive’s review 27
