 Morse plc Annual Report 2009 3 Morse plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
This has been a difficult year for Morse and one of considerable change. The restructuring of the business that has been 
undertaken was necessary in order to align the cost base of the business with the anticipated revenues. The result is that the 
underlying quality of the earnings in the business has improved when compared to the year ended 30 June 2008.
We exited the year with business units refocused to deliver improved cash generative profitability. Each of the business units 
now has a clearly defined set of propositions to offer to existing and future customers and is focused on delivering those 
propositions.
Trading performance for the business units, prior to exceptional items, for the year ended 30 June 2009 is shown below:
  Operating 
  profit/(loss) before 
 Revenue  exceptional items Margin % 
  Year Year Year Year Year Year 
 ended ended ended ended ended ended 
 June June June June June June 
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
 £m £m £m £m  
Infrastructure Services & Technology: 
• UK  114.2 131.4 7.2 6.4 6.3% 4.9%
• Europe (Spain & Ireland) 57.4 57.8 0.2 2.9 0.3% 5.0%
 
Business Applications Services  40.3 46.1 2.4 0.3 6.0% 0.7%
 
Continuing operations  211.9 235.3 9.8 9.6 4.6% 4.1%
Group and Central Costs    (5.6) (5.1)  
Adjusted EBIT   4.2 4.5 2.0% 1.9%
Trading balance releases    4.1 4.2  
 
Continuing operations 211.9 235.3 8.3 8.7 3.9% 3.7%
Discontinued operations       
• Investment Management Consulting  10.4 18.0 0.1 2.4 0.1% 13.3%
Total  222.3 253.3 8.4 11.1 3.8% 4.4%
The business unit revenues are derived from Resale (of third party hardware & software product and maintenance), 
Maintenance and Support (where the business units have ongoing obligations and includes sale of Morse’s Wisdom software 
application), and Services. Gross Profit margins on revenues from continuing operations in the year ended 30 June 2009 
were 20.8% (2008: 22.1%). Gross Profit margins in the second half of the year were slightly better than the first half of 
the year with the decline from 2008 being driven largely by the impact of the global economic slowdown and change in 
customer mix.
As the management team is focused on delivering cash generative operating profit, a key performance indicator is Adjusted 
EBITDA. In the year ended 30 June 2009 Group Adjusted EBITDA was £7.6 million (2008: £7.8 million).
The Group is committed to improving the operational efficiency of the business and has undertaken a restructuring 
programme during the year intended to reduce the overheads of the Group without impacting upon sales and delivery 
capability. The total cost of restructuring in the current financial year was £9.6 million of which £8.6 million was incurred 
on continuing operations. As a result of this restructuring, and the disposal of the UK and Jersey Investment Management 
Consulting (“IMC”) business, formerly known as CSTIM, the total number of Group employees reduced from 1,420 at 30 
June 2008 to 1,010 at 30 June 2009 of which 973 were employed in the continuing operations (2008: 1,304). 
The Adjusted EBIT of £4.2 million (2008: £4.5 million) reflects the strong performance of the Group in the final quarter of the 
year as, after the first nine months of the year, the Adjusted EBIT was only £0.6 million (2008: £1.9 million). Infrastructure 
Services & Technology represented 81% of reported revenues from continuing operations (2008: 80%) and the delivery of 
these revenues is weighted towards the end of each calendar quarter. This is in line with the revenue profile for the product 
partners for those business units. Traditionally, our second and fourth financial quarters have a stronger financial performance  4 Morse plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement (continued)
Morse plc Annual Report 2009
than our first and third financial quarters. This was reflected in the current year with Adjusted Losses Before Interest and 
Tax being incurred in the first and third quarters, whilst in the second and fourth quarters continuing operations delivered 
Adjusted EBIT. As we progress in the new financial year a key performance indicator will be the trailing 12 month financial 
performance which will provide an indication of the improvement in operating performance of the business.
The breakdown of the revenues of the continuing operations and a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBIT to 
operating profit before exceptional items is shown below:
     2009 2008 
     £m £m
Revenues from continuing operations
Resale (third party hardware, software and maintenance)     105.1 120.7
Maintenance and Support (including Wisdom)     29.1 26.2
Services     77.7 88.4
     211.9 235.3
 
Adjusted EBITDA     7.6 7.8
Depreciation and Amortisation     (2.3) (3.0)
Share based payments     (1.1) (0.3)
Adjusted EBIT     4.2 4.5
Trading balance releases     4.1 4.2
Operating profit before exceptional items     8.3 8.7
 
Group and Central costs have increased to £5.6 million (2008: £5.1 million), however, the underlying cash costs have 
reduced significantly as the breakdown below shows:
     2009 2008 
     £m £m
Group and Central costs
Cash costs     2.9 3.6
Depreciation and Amortisation     1.3 1.9
Share based payments     1.1 0.3
Sub-total     5.3 5.8
Forex loss/(gain)     0.3 (0.7)
     5.6 5.1
Operational and financial review
Infrastructure Services & Technology – UK
This is the largest business unit in the Group and generated revenues of £114.2 million (2008: £131.4 million) and an 
operating profit before exceptional items of £7.2 million (2008: £6.4 million). This improved operating margin percentage of 
6.3% (2008: 4.9%) was achieved despite the impact of the bad debt provision of £0.5 million arising from Lehman Brothers 
filing for Chapter 11 on 15 September 2008 and the £1.0 million of losses recognised on the South Tyneside and Gateshead 
(“STaG”) Building Schools for the Future (“BSF”) project. The second half of the year saw an improved operating margin on 
revenues that were marginally down on the first half of the year.
 Infrastructure Services & Technology UK consists of three main lines of business:
l   Technology – helping our clients with the sourcing, management and support of their IT estates utilising a Technology 
Lifecycle Management approach;
l   Infrastructure Services – supporting our clients with technology transformation, project implementation and operations & 
resourcing services that help them optimise their data centres; and
l    providing the ICT expertise, technology and infrastructure services for STaG BSF. Morse plc Annual Report 2009 5 Morse plc Annual Report 2009
The Technology business had revenues of £78.3 million (2008: £87.8 million) with the second half of the year maintained 
at the same level as the first half. We have maintained our existing customer relationships whilst applying additional focus 
towards new customer acquisition and the development of higher value propositions. We will continue to develop our 
operational processes and level of proposition focus during the current financial year.
The Infrastructure Services business had revenues of £34.2 million (2008: £41.1 million) reflecting the impact of a number 
of major programmes of work that came to completion in the second half of the year ended 30 June 2008, together with 
a tighter market for discretionary services spend and the impact of Lehmans. Revenues in the second half of the year 
ended 30 June 2009 were in line with the first half of that year. The operating structure of the services business is being re-
evaluated to ensure continued flexibility and business agility. We are further enhancing our technology transformation skills 
and higher-end data centre capabilities aimed at helping our clients simplify and optimise their environments.
The STaG BSF project is all that remains from the Morse in Education business. Revenues in the year were £1.7 million 
(2008: £2.5 million). At the end of the first half of the year the Board concluded that the significant time period over which 
the STaG BSF contract will be implemented and the difficulty of winning further projects was not the best use of Morse’s 
resources. Consequently in January 2009 the management and sales team of Morse in Education was made redundant and 
the STaG BSF project is now being managed as a stand alone project. Following a review of the progress on the contract in 
the third quarter of the financial year, operating profit of £0.5 million that had been taken in the year ended 30 June 2008 was 
reversed. This contributed to the loss recognised on the contract during this year of £1.0 million. Good progress has been 
made on the contract since then and contract documentation has been signed for the next schools in the programme.
In Infrastructure Services & Technology we continue to have excellent ongoing partnerships with our key technology vendors 
– HP , IBM and Sun as well as relationships with key software providers such as Symantec and Oracle.
Our focus for the business unit includes:
l    maintaining our Technology business based on the value of our Technology Lifecycle Management approach;
l   continuing to improve our systems and service delivery processes to offer a cost effective but superior level of client 
engagement; and
l   developing and delivering data centre optimisation, operations and resourcing services to provide our clients with the IT 
simplification and project-based return on investment they require.
The market for infrastructure services and technology will remain very focused on business critical IT projects where a high 
degree of flexibility and shorter-term success, demonstrated by Return on Investment payback, are essential. We believe that 
our structural and cost changes over the year enables us to be well positioned to support this requirement for our existing 
customers as well as extending our customer and service reach in the future.
Infrastructure Services & Technology Europe (Spain and Ireland)
For Spain and Ireland, in the year ended 30 June 2009, revenue was £57.4 million (2008: £57.8 million) with an operating 
profit before exceptional items of £0.2 million (2008: £2.9 million). The operating profit before exceptional items for the full 
year reverses the losses that were suffered in the first nine months of the year. This improvement in financial performance is 
predominantly due to improved performance in Spain following the restructuring programme undertaken in January 2009. 
The reported results benefited from the strengthening of the Euro against Sterling and under constant currency, revenues 
declined by 14.5%.
Both our Spanish and Irish businesses have been hit hard by the weakness in their respective economies.
In Spain, following the difficult year ended 30 June 2008 action was taken to reduce costs in July 2008. During the first 
half of the current financial year the business maintained revenues but suffered margin decline due to a change in mix of 
customers. Consequently, a further review of the structure of the business was undertaken in January 2009 and as a result 
the overhead cost base was reduced significantly. As part of this restructuring the business re-engaged with its key vendor 
partner, IBM, and the benefits of this relationship are starting to be seen.
It is expected that the economic environment in Spain will remain challenging in the current calendar year, but with a leaner 
overhead base and a clearer go-to-market approach the business is well positioned to take advantage of any economic 
upturn. 6 Morse plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement (continued)
Morse plc Annual Report 2009
In Ireland, Morse is a leading IT Infrastructure Services and Technology company and holds the highest level of accreditation 
with all of the major infrastructure and software vendors, together with executive level relationships in many of Ireland’s blue 
chip companies. It continues to build a reputation as the technology partner of choice and is consolidating this position by 
working with its key vendors in providing coordinated propositions to the market.
In the year to 30 June 2009 the business has suffered from the economic difficulties in Ireland and experienced 
significant revenue decline. This made the business loss-making in the first quarter of the year. However, swift action by 
the management team to restructure the business led to the business being marginally profitable for the full year. The 
management team remains committed to delivering the optimal result in difficult times, such as these.
Business Applications Services
Business Applications Services is organised around three separate businesses:
l   Diagonal – SAP implementation and support services;
l   Portals and Collaboration (including Wisdom); and
l   Xayce – Business Change and Transformation Consultancy.
Diagonal operates in three main territories: the UK, Asia Pacific and the USA whilst the other businesses are UK based.
A number of new key proposition areas have been identified and the business will be simplified to focus the business 
development and sales activities on our Microsoft, SAP and business change & transformation capabilities in the UK, USA 
and Asia Pacific.
Stronger governance processes and procedures for both sales and delivery management have been implemented across 
the business, resulting in stronger sales qualification and improved project delivery. A new resourcing framework has been 
implemented allowing better deployment and management of our skills and resources, providing improved utilisation.
In the year ended 30 June 2009 revenue was £40.3 million (2008: £46.1 million). Operating profit before exceptional items 
was £2.4 million (2008: £0.3 million). Revenues in the six months ended 30 June 2009 were lower than the six months to 31 
December 2008 but generated a higher operating margin. This trend is anticipated to continue in the current financial year. 
Diagonal – SAP implementation and support services
Revenue for the year ended 30 June 2009 was £28.4 million (2008: £34.4 million). This line of business has suffered 
historically from problems with a number of fixed price projects, allied to poor planning and execution, which have 
significantly impacted the profit performance of the business. In the year ended June 2008 a provision of £0.7 million was 
made for these problem projects and a bad debt provision of £0.3 million was also made. During the period to December 
2008 one of these problem projects was resolved and the bad debt provision was utilised. In the second half of the year a 
second problem contract was resolved satisfactorily and outstanding amounts due on the third problem contract are fully 
provided.
The issue on fixed price projects has led to a more robust project management process and an increased focus on contract 
profitability reviews.
SAP integration with Sky Mobility and Blackberry enabled solid growth in the USA in the first half of the year, but proved 
more difficult in the second half of the year. In Asia Pacific a new client implementation was followed by an ongoing support 
contract.
Diagonal has developed strong propositions targeting the Construction and Facilities Management Industries, in addition to 
strong experience in the Chemicals and Manufacturing Industries, and the ability to deliver application support using both 
onshore and offshore consultants is also proving to be of significant value to clients.
Portals and Collaboration
The Portals and Collaboration business is focused on a set of core propositions: information portals and information 
collaboration solutions based upon Microsoft and Vignette technology platforms, electronic Document and Records 
Management (eDRM) solutions based upon our own software product, Wisdom, and the associated services and annuity 
based support revenue that is an integral part of such propositions. This business had revenues of £8.8 million in the period 
(2008: £8.8 million).  Morse plc Annual Report 2009 7 Morse plc Annual Report 2009
Xayce – Business Change and Transformation Consultancy
Xayce specialises in the Financial Services and Local Government markets and clients include leading banks, insurance 
companies and several large local authorities. Xayce contributed £3.1 million in revenue in the year to 30 June 2009 (2008: 
£2.9 million from date of acquisition in September 2007).
Disposal of Investment Management Consulting 
On 9 February 2009, the Company announced the exchange of contracts on the disposal of the business and assets of the 
UK and Jersey IMC business, formerly known as CSTIM, to Navigant Consulting (Europe) Limited (“Navigant Consulting”).
In the year to 30 June 2008 the CSTIM business generated an operating profit of £1.6 million on revenue of £9.3 million. 
The business has reduced in size considerably since then. In the six months ended 31 December 2008 revenues were £3.2 
million and there was a small operating loss of £44,000. 
The initial consideration was £1.3 million which was paid in cash at completion. The financial performance of the business 
in the year to 30 June 2009 meant that no deferred consideration was payable. The gross assets transferred were £13,000 
and the book value of net liabilities transferred was £0.42 million. Morse retained and was responsible for the collection of 
the outstanding trade receivables all of which were collected. The proceeds of the sale were used for general corporate 
purposes.
CSTIM formed the largest part of Morse’s IMC business unit. Small IMC operations in South Africa and Luxembourg have 
been closed down and a flexible resourcing business in the UK called SkillsHub has been sold to management for a nominal 
sum. The remaining parts of the IMC business held at the year end were operated through majority owned subsidiary 
undertakings in France and Australia. On 4 September Morse announced the sale of its stake in the Australian business 
to management. The sale proceeds were A$ 50,000 and an intercompany loan and interest of A$ 280,000 was repaid to 
Morse. Terms have been agreed with the management of the French subsidiary to sell Morse’s stake to them for E150,000. 
This is a related party transaction which requires shareholder approval and a circular will be sent to shareholders in due 
course. Consequently, the entire IMC business unit is considered to be discontinued for Financial Reporting purposes.
As a result of the sale, disposals and closure there is impairment to goodwill and intangibles on Morse’s consolidated 
balance sheet, relating to the IMC business unit, of £13.7 million.
Risks and Risk Management
Following the changes in Board membership over the past year, risk management processes have been re-assessed to 
ensure a framework of prudent and effective controls is in place to assess effectively and manage risk within the Group. The 
business units in the Group have primary responsibility for managing risk on a day-to-day basis and regular reporting to the 
Board of risk registers and material contracts is now in place. All identified risks are quantified, prioritised and appropriate 
mitigations developed for each. For the UK businesses we have established a separate management board (Morse 
Executive Board) and risk is a standing item on the agenda for its meetings. Risk management of the Spanish and Irish 
businesses is reviewed at the monthly performance reviews for those businesses. The Board regularly reviews the cost and 
benefits of the risk and control activity undertaken and comprehensive business insurances are maintained. The principal 
risks and uncertainties associated with the Group’s activities are discussed below.
Strategic risks
The continuation of the current recession may further reduce demand for the Group’s services and therefore reduce revenue 
and profits. Significant restructuring and cost reductions have been carried out during the year and while this action should 
benefit future profits, further reductions in revenue may offset the cost reductions already achieved.
Certain parts of the Group’s businesses rely on a small number of strategic customers for a significant part of their revenue 
and profits. The businesses seek to increase the number of customers to reduce this reliance, however the loss of a 
strategic customer would impact the profitability of the business in the short term.
Key partner relationships are required in order to undertake the sale of their products and services. The loss of a key partner 
relationship would lead to a loss of revenue and profit. The business units seek to maintain and improve their partner 
relationships in order to mitigate this risk. 8 Morse plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement (continued)
Morse plc Annual Report 2009
The credit crisis has led to reduced availability of funding as well as tighter credit terms and this may lead to future reductions 
in credit available to run the Group’s operations. The Group is not currently using its committed banking facilities of £7.5 
million and has increased focus on cash management in the last year to reduce the impact of this risk.
Increased competition in an already crowded market place may have a negative impact on the Group’s position, whilst 
efforts to improve the Group’s delivery and range of services will help to mitigate this risk.
Operational risks
The Group’s revenue and profit projections depend heavily upon the delivery of large contracts to customers. In the 
past, issues with delivery have led to significant project overruns and unbudgeted costs which have reduced the Group’s 
profitability. During the year, management and internal processes have been strengthened in this area in order to minimise 
this risk for the future.
The management of the Group’s businesses and the delivery of its contracts rely heavily on staff and loss of key staff is a 
significant risk to the businesses. Remuneration and people management processes are in place to minimise attrition and 
the Group’s rate of attrition is within industry averages.
Seasonality of the Group’s revenue and profits does not change much from year-to-year, but profits tend to be weighted 
towards the end of each six month period and there is a greater weighting towards the second half of the financial year due 
to customer buying patterns.
The Group’s businesses are exposed to the risk to business continuity posed by a pandemic, including the current influenza 
virus, terrorist incident or other external event. During the year our office in Madrid was damaged due to a terrorist bomb, 
although it was not the target. Whilst such events are outside of the Group’s control, measures are taken to mitigate these 
risks wherever possible. The Group has a detailed Business Continuity Plan which was reviewed during the year to cover a 
wide range of risks such as IT systems failure and possible pandemics.
Financial risks
In the current recession, increased credit risk remains a potential issue and during the year Lehman Brothers, a significant 
customer, suffered financial failure. The Group’s increased focus on cash management in the year has helped to improve 
collection times from customers and this focus will continue.
The main external factors affecting financial measures are discussed above and to these can be added changes in 
assumptions underlying the carrying value of certain Group assets. These assumptions are discussed in note 13 and include 
discount rates, long-term growth rates and timing and quantum of future expenditure, the revision of any of which could lead 
to an impairment in the carrying value of certain assets in the Group which would reduce profits and distributable reserves.
Other Financial items
Dividends and Capital Reduction process
The carrying value of the investment in CSTIM Limited, the company acquired in April 2004, in the company balance sheet 
of Morse plc as at 30 June 2008 was £16 million. This was part of total Fixed Asset Investments of £125 million held on the 
balance sheet of Morse plc at that date.
At the time of the Interim Results the Board made a write down of £13.8 million in Morse plc’s company balance sheet in 
respect of this investment. As a consequence of this write down Morse plc had negative distributable reserves and was 
unable to declare an interim dividend. In light of this and the current economic environment, the Board has undertaken a 
review of the remaining Fixed Asset Investments and the recoverability of inter company receivables owed to Morse plc. The 
impact of this review is to reduce the net book value of Fixed Assets Investments to £71.7 million and results in negative 
distributable reserves on the Morse plc Company balance sheet of £47.9 million and net assets of £38.0 million.
The Board has reviewed the available options for the Company in order to enable dividends to be declared out of future 
profits. The Board has concluded that, subject to shareholders’ approval, a Court Approved Capital Reduction process 
should be undertaken in order to use part of the share premium account, standing at £70.8 million at 30 June 2009, to 
extinguish the negative distributable reserves. The Board believes that this is in the best interests of shareholders. Details 
of the Capital Reduction process will be included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting scheduled for 22 October 2009  Morse plc Annual Report 2009 9 Morse plc Annual Report 2009
together with the resolutions to be proposed to shareholders. If shareholders approve the resolution then it is anticipated that 
the Court process will be completed in November 2009 and that the first dividend that could be declared out of future profits 
would be a final dividend for the year ending 30 June 2010. 
Consequently, no final dividend will be paid for the last financial year (2008: 1.30p per share) giving a total dividend for the 
year of nil p per Ordinary share (2008: 2.6p per share).
Cash and Banking Facilities
Morse has historically operated a policy of seeking to maximise the reported cash balance at financial reporting period ends. 
To ensure an appropriate (high) level of focus on cash and a more conservative view on what is used to manage and report 
on the business, the new Executive Management team publishes a chart showing the weekly balances as shown on bank 
statements for the period from 1 July 2006. This chart is published again today and is available at www.morse.com.
Since 30 September 2008 the relationship between cash on the balance sheet and cash per bank statements has reverted 
to a more normal position where the bank position shows a higher cash balance than the balance sheet position. Net cash/
debt position is reduced further by the Customer Specific Funding arrangements entered into by the Group.
The principal banking facilities of the Group are with the Royal Bank of Scotland plc. These facilities consist of a committed 
multi currency Revolving Credit Facility (“RCF”) and a multi-currency overdraft facility. The RCF has covenants that relate to:
l   Gearing (Gross Borrowings to shareholder funds);
l   Interest cover (PBIT to Borrowing costs); and
l   Leverage (Gross Borrowings to EBITDA).
We have now extended the period of the committed RCF from 28 March 2010 to 31 March 2011 and based on the 
improved cash position within the Group and internal cash flow projections we have reduced the RCF to £6.5 million and the 
overdraft to £1 million. The Board believes that these facilities are sufficient for the Group requirements for the foreseeable 
future.
Deferred consideration
Xayce was acquired in September 2007 and had an earnout period to 30 June 2008 which was successfully completed. 
As a result, deferred consideration of £2.5 million was payable to be settled by the issue of new ordinary shares at an issue 
price of 95.45 pence. 711,236 shares were issued in July 2008 which settled £678,875 of deferred consideration. Morse 
and the vendors have negotiated settlement of the remaining deferred consideration at a value £1.25 million which will now 
be settled in cash over the period to 31 July 2011.
Trading balance releases
Trading balances are a normal part of our business and have built up significantly over a period of time. These relate to 
unallocated cash payments from customers; credit notes issued and not claimed; supplier credit balances that may not be 
enforced and goods received not yet invoiced. The nature of the uncertainty surrounding them is that while they represent 
present obligations, it is uncertain whether the counterparties will enforce settlement. However, the changing shape of the 
business, particularly the reduced volume and level of infrastructure business (a reduction of approximately £300 million per 
annum since its peak in 2002), means that trading balances are no longer being created at the same level as they are being 
released.
Trading balances are reviewed on a regular basis. If not used in the ordinary course of trade, consistent with established 
operating policies, they are released in line with our accounting policy when a liability is judged to no longer exist.
Given the lower volumes and improved controls and processes implemented over the last three years, the level of short term 
trading balances is reducing.
At 30 June 2008 there were £10.2 million trading balance credits on the balance sheet. During the year £4.1 million 
of trading balances were released to the income statement in line with the policy, £1.7 million of the liability was either 
crystallised or settled with £4.4 million remaining on the balance sheet at 30 June 2009. Reductions in the trading balance 
credits are driven by a number of factors and it is difficult to predict with certainty the levels of releases that will flow through 
the income statement in the years ahead. However, we currently anticipate that trading balance releases will continue at  10 Morse plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement (continued)
Morse plc Annual Report 2009
the following approximate levels in the years ending 30 June 2010: £0.9 million; 2011: £0.8 million; and 2012: £1.2 million, 
with any increase in these levels being driven by action by the Company. The actual amounts will be disclosed in our future 
financial statements.
Exceptional items
During the year there was a net exceptional charge before tax on continuing operations of £8.16 million (2008: £13.40 
million). This total is analysed in more detail in note 3. The major items considered to be exceptional and included in this 
category are noted below:
Year ended 30 June 2009: Restructuring costs, Dilapidation provision and exceptional credits
Restructuring costs accounted for £8.64 million of the costs with dilapidation provisions adding a further £0.70 million. 
Offsetting these costs were exceptional credits of £1.18 million consisting of £0.62 million relating to the forfeiture of share 
based payments and £0.56 million of reversal of fair value adjustments.
Year ended 30 June 2008: Goodwill and Intangibles impairment
Following the decline in profitability within the Business Applications Services business unit and annual impairment review, 
a goodwill impairment charge of £12.26 million and intangibles impairment charge of £1.14 million were recognised in the 
2008 accounts.
Interest
Net interest expense during the year was £0.5 million (2008: £0.4 million). Details of these costs are provided in note 8 to the 
accounts.
Taxation
For continuing operations there was a tax credit for the year of £1.7 million (2008: tax charge of £1.3 million) consisting of a 
current tax charge of £1.5 million (2008: £2.5 million) offset by adjustments to prior year tax provisions of £2.4 million (2008: 
£0.5 million) and deferred tax of £0.8 million (2008: £0.6 million).
During the year a number of open HMRC enquiries on UK corporation tax years dating back to the year ending 30 June 
2005 were settled and the provisions for tax were adjusted in line with the agreed position. Further details appear in note 9.
Earnings/Loss per share
Basic loss per share including discontinued operations declined from 3.7p last year to a loss of 9.3p in the year ended 30 
June 2009. Details can be found in note 4.
On continuing operations, Adjusted basic earnings per share (before trading balance releases and exceptional items and with 
a normalised tax charge) were 2.0p (2008: 2.2p).
Cash flow
Cash in the Group at the year end amounted to £12.7 million compared to £11.1 million last year. The principal outflows 
during the year were dividend payments of £1.7 million and tax payments of £3.7 million. At the year end Customer Specific 
Financing of £0.7 million (2008: £nil) reduced the net cash number to £12.0 million (2008: £11.1 million). Of the total cash 
balance £0.6 million is held in assets held for resale as part of the discontinued operations.
Cash generated from operations for the year ended 30 June 2009 was £6.8 million (2008: £7.3 million), all of which was 
generated from continuing operations (2008: £3.6 million). This represented 89% of Adjusted EBITDA from continuing 
operations (2008: 47%). Morse plc Annual Report 2009 11 Morse plc Annual Report 2009
Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)
As noted in this statement, the Company uses several KPIs to monitor the performance of the business. A summary of the 
more important KPIs that are used together with a description of how they are calculated follows:
KPI Metrics Description
Gross Margin percentage 2009 20.8%
2008 22.1%
Gross Profit divided by Revenue
Adjusted EBITDA 2009 £7.6 million
2008 £7.8 million
Adjusted EBITDA are Earnings Before Interest, Tax, 
Depreciation, Amortisation, Share Based Payments, 
Trading Balance Releases and Exceptional Items
Adjusted EBIT 2009 £4.2 million
2008 £4.5 million
Adjusted EBIT are Earnings Before Interest, Tax, 
Trading Balance Releases and Exceptional Items.
 
Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) 2009 57 days
2008 68 days
The number of days invoicing represented by the 
period trade receivables outstanding. This provides 
an indication of how quickly our customers are 
paying their invoices.
Average Weekly Bank Balance 2009 £5.8 million
2008 £4.0 million
An average of the weekly bank balance during the 
year as included in the chart published on the Morse 
website.
Cash conversion 2009 89%
2008 47%
Cash generated from continuing operations divided 
by Adjusted EBITDA
 
Outlook
The Board would like to thank all the Group’s employees for their continued hard work and commitment throughout the 
period under review. It has been a difficult time for the business compounded by the downturn in the economic environment. 
We have and will continue to experience significant change, but we believe that we will emerge a much stronger organisation 
with clear opportunities ahead.
We have completed the execution of the revised business strategy for the Morse business and implemented the changes to 
simplify the structure and focus on the four business units Infrastructure Services & Technology in the UK, Spain and Ireland 
and Business Applications Services. Significant cost reductions have been achieved. In addition, we have started to establish 
a niche focus in each of these businesses.
The improvement in Adjusted EBIT and Adjusted EBITDA on a trailing 12 month basis will be the key performance indicator 
of the improved financial performance of the business in the coming year. Adjusted EBIT and Adjusted EBITDA in the current 
financial year are ahead of the same period last year.
While we expect the market for IT services and technology to remain difficult we believe that the changes to Morse’s 
operating model, together with its ongoing strong client relationships, have delivered improved underlying profitability and 
cash generation in the year to 30 June 2009 and can continue to do so in future.
Mike Phillips 
Chief Executive Officer
9 September 2009
