 Morse plc Annual Report 2007 2
Chairman’ s statement
This year the Group became a fully integrated,
international professional services firm, operating under
one brand and delivering business and IT consultancy
services across four chosen industry sectors. Following
the successful demerger of the mobile banking
applications business, Monitise, in June 2007, Morse 
is now totally focused as a pure professional services
business and over the past year we have made many
changes to our operating model to ensure we have the
right foundation to take the business forward. Morse now
has the ability and resources to pursue its own growth
strategy, building on our outstanding blue chip client base
and leveraging our range of specialist capabilities.
Results
Operating profit before interest, taxation and exceptional
items from continuing operations was up 16% to £12.2
million (2006: £10.6 million). The continuing business has
seen a significant increase in operating profit over the past
two years (2005: £7.6 million to 2007: £12.2 million).
Operating margin percentage from continuing operations
was up 1.2% points to 4.8% (2006: 3.6%). The increase 
in operating margin reflects the continuing improvement in
the underlying quality and mix of our services business.
We will aim to maintain solid earnings per share growth at
similar levels to that achieved in the year to 30 June 2007. 
Group revenue from continuing operations for the year to
30 June 2007 was £256.5 million (2006: £296.5 million).
The decline in revenue was principally due to our
continued withdrawal from the IT infrastructure product
fulfilment business and our desire to ensure product is
only ever delivered as part of a services engagement.  
We now believe that our revenue is reaching a level of
support from which we can progress.
A final dividend of 2.80p (2006 2.70p) will be proposed for
shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting to be
convened on 30 October 2007 and, subject to shareholder
approval, will be paid to shareholders on the register as 
at 12 October 2007. The dividend will be payable on 
5 November 2007.
Morse
Morse’s advisory and execution services are focused on
three main areas: Management Consulting, Applications
Consulting and Infrastructure Consulting. We will continue
to manage the business broadly along these lines in the
short term as we strengthen our existing vertical sector
capabilities in four key markets: financial services, 
media and communications, commercial and public
sector. We are already transitioning our relationships with
many strategic clients and over time will move to a full 
client-driven vertical sector model.  
By combining the strengths of our three business units
into a single portfolio of services, we are now providing our
clients with specialist services in support of their business
strategies and operating models, including business
processes, IT applications and IT infrastructure. We maintain
strong partnerships with the market-leading product and
solutions vendors. We are also leveraging our specialist
expertise and deep industry domain knowledge to develop
long-term sustainable client relationships.
Morse operates under one brand, with one culture,
utilising a unified client franchise. We have established
Richard Lapthorne
Chairman Morse plc Annual Report 2007 3
strong thought leadership in our chosen sectors and
emerging information technology and we aim to deliver
total solutions to clients. We can deliver in a consistent
style and develop our people within a single coordinated
talent management process and we aim to attract and
retain the best talent available.
Morse is a top 15 consultancy player in the UK consulting
market with strong international reach and is gaining
market and client momentum. As such, the business is
now well placed to move towards the operating margins
that are consistent with other established advisory and
execution firms and we therefore aim to match or exceed
industry benchmarks and double the operating margin
percentage from 30 June 2006 over the medium term.
Following the demerger of Monitise at the financial year-end,
Morse now has the strategic focus and financial strength
to fulfil its potential as a pure professional services firm.
With the demerger of the Monitise business from Morse,
Kevin Alcock was appointed Chief Executive Officer of
Morse plc, having been Chief Executive of the Morse
operating business since July 2006. Duncan McIntyre,
previously Chief Executive Officer of Morse plc, has moved
to the role of Deputy Chairman. Management remains
focused on the strong financial management that has
been a hallmark of the Morse story to date, while pushing
forward with clearly stated performance objectives and
well defined actions to deliver shareholder value.
Richard Lapthorne
Chairman
4 September 2007
Changes to 
Group structure
Over the last few years the Group has been transforming itself
from a reseller to technology integrator to a business and
IT consulting company. We have undertaken this transformation 
in order to provide our substantial blue chip customer base with
the broader offerings they now require, combining advisory and
execution consulting and delivery services with industry and
technology skills and capabilities. We have managed this
transition by a combination of organic development and
acquisition. The acquisitions together with the selective disposals 
we have made have enabled us to accelerate the transformation
process, and our financial controls have allowed the Group to
remain consistently cash-generative, at the operating profit level.
We now have the framework in place for the remaining significant
activities and geographies to become important components of
Morse, a single, international advisory and execution professional
services business.
With the successful transformation of the Morse business and
development of the Monitise business it was recognised that both
businesses had increasingly distinct characteristics with different
funding requirements and growth strategies. The Morse Board
decided a demerger of Monitise from Morse plc was the best way
forward as this would demonstrate the independent value of both
businesses, allow each to focus on its core competencies, pursue
its own investment strategies and provide shareholders in Morse
plc with investment choice.
COMPANY OVERVIEW
