 Chairman's Statement
2 Morse plc Annual Report 2009 Morse plc Annual Report 2009
This has been a year of significant change for Morse and this has been undertaken against a backdrop of unprecedented 
economic turmoil. At the beginning of the financial year the Board concluded that the structure of the Group needed to 
be simplified, to allow the individual business units to concentrate on their core competencies and to improve the levels of 
profitability and operational management in the business. Morse’s continuing operations are four independent business units 
each reporting to the Chief Executive Officer:
l   Infrastructure Services & Technology – UK;
l   Infrastructure Services & Technology – Spain;
l   Infrastructure Services & Technology – Ireland; and
l   Business Applications Services.
Each business unit prioritises activity in the markets in which it has specialist knowledge and capabilities. Cooperation 
between business units is encouraged where it adds value to the client engagement and to the business unit’s profitability.
The Group’s discontinued operations comprise Investment Management Consulting. During the year the largest part of this 
business unit was sold and since the year end we have announced the disposal of the remaining parts to management.
In July 2008 the Group commenced a significant restructuring process which has helped streamline the business operations 
and align the cost base with the anticipated revenues. The benefit of this restructuring in each of the business units was 
demonstrated in the fourth quarter, traditionally the Group’s strongest financial quarter, resulting in operating profit before 
exceptional items for the full year of £8.3 million (2008: £8.7 million). Once the impact of trading balance releases is removed 
the Adjusted EBIT was £4.2 million (2008: £4.5 million).
A key focus during the year was the improvement of the cash position of the Group. At the end of the year the cash balance 
was £12.7 million (2008: £11.1 million) and after taking account of Customer Specific Financing the net cash balance was 
£12.0 million (2008: £11.1 million). Compared to the low point during the year at 30 September 2008, when the Group had 
debt of £4.9 million and after taking account of Customer Specific Financing net debt of £8.9 million, the year end position is 
a creditable performance.
As highlighted at the Interim Results, the Company is currently not in a position to declare dividends due to a lack of 
distributable reserves. The Board has reviewed the available options to allow dividends to be declared in future and has 
concluded that a Court Approved Capital Reduction scheme should be pursued. This process will first need to be approved 
by shareholders and the appropriate information and resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting 
on 22 October 2009. If approved by shareholders, then it is anticipated that Court approval will be obtained by the end of 
November and will enable the Company to declare dividends out of future profits. The Board will then adopt an appropriate 
dividend policy.
The Group is now in an improved financial position and has achieved a creditable financial performance in difficult market 
conditions. The Board would like to thank all of our employees for their continued hard work and commitment.
The Board anticipates that the changes that have been made to Morse’s operating model and focus, together with its 
ongoing strong client relationships, position the Group to deliver improved underlying profitability and cash generation in 
future.
Kevin Loosemore 
Non-Executive Chairman
9 September 2009
