 888 Holdings plc www.888holdingsplc.com 8
16254 08/04/2009 Proof 8
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s Review
“We believe that the combined B2C
and B2B model is an essential key 
to successfully growing the business 
in 2009, and we therefore intend to 
continue focusing on both these lines of 
business.”
Introduction
The first half of 2008 was again a very successful trading 
period for 888 delivering record half year results and a 
seventh consecutive period of semi-annual growth. Trading 
during the traditionally weaker summer months of July and 
August remained solid with TOI in August growing above 
July’s level. However, like most business sectors, we were
not immune to the unprecedented ferocity with which the 
global economy slowed. Growth in September began to slow
and that coupled with the extraordinarily volatile exchange 
rate movements — especially the sharp decline in the value 
of European currencies versus the US dollar — has impacted 
the business.
Despite the difficult circumstances, our underlying business 
remained solid throughout the year, and we have delivered
21% revenue growth year on year. We are confident in 
our business model and strategy and find our successful 
combination of a world class B2C organisation and an 
innovative B2B provider in the sector a strong model 
that enables us to deal better with the current challenges 
the industry faces. As proof, our firm foundation of B2C 
earnings, which was significantly expanded and diversified 
in 2008, was complemented by a rapid growth in our B2B 
business in the year.
TOI increased 21% to US$263 million (2007: US$217 million) 
underpinned by 208% growth in our Emerging Offering to 
US$45 million (2007: US$14 million) with EBITDA* increase 
of 23% to US$56 million (2007: US$46 million).
* Before share benefit charges of US$8.4 million (2007: 
US$7.8 million) and exchange rate losses of US$2.6 million 
(2007: gains of US$1.1 million).
Delivering on our Strategy
2008 marked another milestone in the delivery of our 
strategic goals in the completion of the transformation of our 
product offering and the significant evolution of our strategic
partnership programme into a significant B2B business.
In the first half of the year we made strategic investments 
in both our offering and our brand. The constant drive 
to acquire and retain customers through an enhanced 
and innovative offering saw 888 transformed into a 
comprehensive provider of the four key online gaming 
segments: Casino, Poker, Sportsbetting and Bingo as well as 
additional niche products such as Backgammon.
In March we launched www.888sport.com (“888sport”), 
a pan-European sports betting offering, developed with 
Blue Square, the interactive gaming and betting division 
of Rank Group Plc. The service was initially launched 
in five markets and we have also recently launched in 
one additional market and plan to further expand our 
geographic reach in 2009. Our sports product delivered solid 
performance in its first year.
16254888COM FRONT.indd   8 16254888COM FRONT.indd   8 08/04/2009   17:46 08/04/2009   17:46 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 9
16254 08/04/2009 Proof 8
Our Bingo offering has been significantly expanded and 
enhanced during the year. 888ladies, our new sub-brand 
targeted predominantly at a female audience, was officially 
launched in February and backed by a high profile TV 
campaign featuring well-known celebrity comedian Vic 
Reeves. The launch was a huge success with customers and 
the industry alike as was recognised when we were named 
Bingo Operator of the Year at the eGaming Awards. 
At the end of the year we announced the further expansion 
in the B2B side of our Bingo business, achieved by signing 
agreements to launch three new Bingo networks in addition 
to the seven we already operate. One of these in Spain will 
be, for the first time, a localised offering tailored specifically 
for local tastes and customers. In addition to operating our 
own brands we also host, on a full managed service basis, a 
number of skins and during the year agreements were signed
to add another six new partners to the network. Bingo 
remains the fastest growing segment in the online gaming
industry and we feel we are very well positioned in this 
market. The result of these activities was significant growth in 
the bingo business in 2008.
As well as launching our own new products, in 2008 we 
have evolved our strategy toward the creation of a games-
ecosystem powered by our industry-leading integration 
infrastructure. This enables us to introduce a diversified 
offering to existing and new players rapidly and with a low
cost of development and integration. By opening up our 
platform for integration with games from other vendors we 
are offering our customers an accelerated rate of new games
launches while offering third party game providers the best 
platform on which to debut or grow the exposure of their 
titles. Over a dozen games integration contracts have been 
signed giving us access to more than 1,000 new games 
— of which 22 are already launched in various parts of our 
business. 
This dual approach, which gives us the ability to introduce 
games easily and quickly into local markets, will remain 
a core element of our strategy as we strive to increase 
customer loyalty and lifetime value and continue to attract 
new players.
2008 was a transformational year in terms of our B2B 
business, which grew rapidly throughout the year. The real 
step change for our B2B operations came in June with 
the ground-breaking partnership we signed with Sportech 
PLC, one of the UK’s leading gaming businesses. Under 
the partnership 888 provides Sportech with a turnkey online 
gaming operation which includes our market leading gaming 
and back-end software, customer support and payments 
processing as well as — for the first time — the marketing
of all their products online. We believe the combination of 
Sportech’s brands in global pools sports betting coupled 
with our software, operations, Internet marketing and online 
gaming capabilities will yield significant mutual benefits. 
Following this deal we are well positioned as one of the 
leading B2B providers to the industry, and given our recently 
announced deals and ongoing activity with some of the 
leading online gaming operators, B2B will continue to be our 
main growth engine in the coming years. 
I am pleased that we continue to be awarded industry 
accolades for our innovation and our offering. In 2008 we 
retained, for the third successive year, eGaming Awards
Casino operator of the Year endorsing our global reach 
and market-leading position in this category and were also 
awarded the aforementioned Bingo operator of the Year. We
also picked up Leisure Report’s “Best Betting and Gaming 
Award” for a second year running and “Operator of the Year”
beating strong competition from across the general leisure
sector.
Our approach and success in B2C marketing is one of 
888’s key differentiators; where 888 innovates, many follow.
Marketing was a key component to the success of our 
product launches for both 888sport and 888ladies. Strategic
sport sponsorships and associations such as Sevilla FC, 
World Snooker Championship and the Shane Warne
captaincy of the 888 poker team give the brand valuable 
high profile visibility. These initiatives, coupled with our ability 
to localise our marketing efforts across multiple channels, 
continue to support successfully our geographic expansion 
and generation of significant numbers of new players.
 
16254888COM FRONT.indd   9 16254888COM FRONT.indd   9 08/04/2009   17:46 08/04/2009   17:46 888 Holdings plc www.888holdingsplc.com 10
16254 08/04/2009 Proof 8
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s Review
continued
We continue to recognise the importance of customer loyalty,
as building strong relationships leads to people playing more
games, more often, for more time. As product offerings are
increasingly tailored to individual markets and segments, 
the CRM teams continued to run localised promotions 
throughout the year. Alongside front of house promotions, 
ongoing improvement in our support systems and services 
also helped to ensure that customers kept coming back 
to 888. 
During 2008 we also opened up further communication 
channels through which we are able to contact customers. 
The magazine ‘Eight’ remains popular amongst customers, 
and direct mail has now been augmented with SMS 
messaging. This, coupled with targeted segmentation of 
the customer base, now means players receive information 
of particular interest to them immediately. The delivery of 
promotions and tournament reminders in this way also helps
to drive traffic online.
People
Our ability to recruit and retain high calibre employees is 
fundamental to our success and we continue to add talented 
people to our world-class team. It is not just that our people 
have a direct influence on the way our customers feel when 
they are playing our games — the integrity and expertise 
of our people is central to our strategy, execution and 
innovation. I would like to personally thank each and every 
employee for their support and hard work in the past year.
Regulation
The regulatory landscape within which we operate remains 
unstable in some regions. Whilst the European Court of 
Justice’s ruling in the Placanica case restated the importance 
of EU regulations to our industry, there have been some 
mixed messages from the EU Parliament. Generally, however,
we view EU developments positively and we have seen a 
continued trend throughout the year of additional European 
jurisdictions embarking on a path to license and regulate 
online gaming, a route which we clearly welcome. 
As stated in our announcement dated 5 June 2007, we 
have initiated preliminary discussions with the United States 
Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York 
relating to our activity in the US prior to the signing of the
UIGEA. It is too early to assess any particular outcome of 
these discussions.
Responsible Gaming
We take our responsibilities as an international gaming
operator extremely seriously. We continue to lead the market 
in our support of the prevention of under-age and problem 
gaming and promotion of responsible gaming. 2008 was no 
exception and was marked by the introduction of a unique 
product called the Observer. Observer was developed with
Dr Mark Griffiths, a Chartered Psychologist and Professor 
of Gambling Studies at the Nottingham Trent University.
A complex set of parameters including financial and 
behavioural data are used to flag up customers who might 
be at risk from becoming a problem gambler. This data is 
analysed and investigated and action taken in partnership 
with the customer to prevent or resolve a potential problem 
situation.
Last year we launched a specialist website 
www.888responsible.com dedicated exclusively to 
responsible gaming. It is a comprehensive site covering
all aspects of responsible gaming practices, dealing with 
problem gambling and preventing under-age gambling.
In 2008 we also ran a specific campaign aimed at raising 
potential under-age gamers and parents’ awareness of 
under-age gambling issues.
Our 2009 Focus
We believe that the combined B2C/B2B model is an
essential key to growing the business successfully in 2009, 
and therefore intend to continue focusing on both these lines 
of business. 
We have taken the decision to operate B2B as a separate
business unit as our strategy for our B2B business is to 
become a leading provider of technology, operations and 
knowledge to new entrants to the market using our existing 
capabilities. The B2B business will be relaunched under 
a separate brand with its own sales force and we have 
appointed a separate Managing Director to the business. 
We have a very strong pipeline with more than 50 deals
at various stages. We will expand organically but will also 
look to grow our footprint through the acquisition of B2B 
technology enablers to accelerate our growth. We have 
already announced a deal this year, signed in January,
focusing on Continental Europe and expect to announce 
more deals during the year.
Alongside the fast developing B2B business we will continue 
to focus on our B2C offerings with the introduction of a no 
download ‘games tab’, Live dealer in Europe and Bingo 
into a number of additional European markets including 
Spain. These developments, alongside further geographic 
expansion are expected to drive the growth of our B2C 
business even in these turbulent times. 
16254888COM FRONT.indd   10 16254888COM FRONT.indd   10 08/04/2009   17:46 08/04/2009   17:46 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 11
16254 08/04/2009 Proof 8
Third party games integration continues and 2009 will see a 
major step as the platform will become a full multi-currency 
offering, allowing customers to play localised games that
appeal to them, in their local language, in their local currency.
This is expected to have a positive impact on both our B2C 
and B2B businesses. 
Outlook
Our plans for 2009 will be to both grow our player base and 
maximise customers’ Life Time Value — for both us and our 
B2B partners — by offering new and innovative products. 
Our B2B business, which saw the first full year of operation 
in 2008, is already showing further growth in 2009.
Our sustained performance in B2C will be achieved by 
a continued focus on customer needs and the growing 
attractiveness of our offering. Specifically, opening up our 
platform to integration with games created by other vendors, 
will continue delivering customers with ongoing innovation 
in 2009. 
The combination of our leading B2C business and our fast-
growing B2B business gives us a very good base for growth
in 2009 and beyond.
The broader economic climate remains challenging as does 
the weakness of the European currencies, affecting our US$ 
reported revenues. However, whilst remaining cautious in
our outlook, we are confident our customers will continue to 
enjoy our services and that the overall strength and resilience 
of the business will ensure we weather this turbulent period 
well. Just as we managed to grow market share after the 
industry was hit by the closure of the US market, we are
confident we will outperform the market in these challenging 
times and continue to grow our business.
Gigi Levy
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
16254888COM FRONT.indd   11 16254888COM FRONT.indd   11 08/04/2009   17:46 08/04/2009   17:46
