 MOSS BROS GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013/14 I 3 
Job No: 17791 Proof Event: 10 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA
Customer: Moss Bros Project Title: Report & Accounts 2012/13 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report another year of strong progress for the Group. Building on the extensive customer  
research 	 in 	 2013 	 we 	 continued 	 to 	 develop 	 and 	 redefine 	 both 	 the 	 Moss 	 Bros 	 master 	 brand 	 and 	 the 	 supporting	 
sub-brands.	All	the	collateral	has	been	redesigned	including	store	windows,	product,	advertising	and	point	 
of sale. This is being rolled out across our network of stores and on-line in a managed programme. This 
brand driven focus has given the Executives a strong foundation from which to deliver growth in both sales  
and 	 profits, 	 across 	 all 	 channels, 	 ahead 	 of 	 market 	 expectations 	 despite 	 the 	 challenging 	 external 	 environment.
Total	like-for-like*	sales	including	VAT	reflected	a	4.2%	increase	on	the	prior	year.	Profit	before	taxation	
was	£4.4m,	compared	with	a	profit	before	taxation	and	exceptional	items	of	£3.0m	in	the	previous	
year.	Profit	before	taxation,	after	exceptional	items,	was	£4.4m	against	£3.1m	in	the	prior	year.	EBITDA	
continued	on	a	positive	trend	to	£9.2m,	compared	with	Adjusted	EBITDA**	of	£7.9m	in	the	previous	year.	
Similarly,	our	cash	position	continues	to	be	very	strong	and	confidence	in	our	future	trading	position	has	
encouraged	the	Board	to	significantly	increase	the	dividend	from	0.9p	to	5.0p	per	share.	
Actions to improve performance have included establishing our multi-channel credentials across the 
UK,	the	launch	of	a	new	Hire	website	in	November	2013,	the	development	of	a	number	of	international	
websites	for	retail,	expanding	the	product	offerings	such	as	Moss	Bespoke	(which	is	now	available	in	
21	stores),	and	investing	in	the	UK	store	estate	(including	2	new	store	openings	and	13	refits).	
In	 parallel	 with	 these	 actions,	 the	 team	 continues	 to	 apply	 strong	 cash	 and	 working	 capital	 controls	 and	 the	
business	continues	debt	free,	with	a	healthy	cash	balance,	enabling	the	Board	to	adopt	a	more	progressive	
dividend policy.
During	the	last	12	months,	we	saw	another	significant	change	to	the	share	register,	with	the	sale	by	 
Laura	Ashley	of	their	10%	stake.	This	was	successfully	taken	up	by	a	number	of	‘blue	chip’	investors.
We added to the strength of the executive team with the appointment of a new Commercial and Operations 
Director, 	 with 	 specific 	 accountability 	 for 	 establishing 	 and 	 leveraging 	 the 	 Moss 	 Bros 	 brand 	 across 	 the 	 business.
As	announced	on	14	January	2014,	the	Board	is	proposing	the	payment	of	a	final	dividend	of	4.7	pence	per	
share	to	be	paid	on	26	June	2014	to	all	shareholders	on	the	register	on	the	6	June	2014	(ex	dividend	date	 
4 	 June 	 2014). 	 It 	 is 	 our 	 intention 	 to 	 apply 	 a 	 progressive 	 dividend 	 policy 	 balanced 	 against 	 the 	 wider 	 investment	
needs of the business. 
In	the	coming	year,	we	will	accelerate	our	store	refit	programme,	and	build	on	our	multi-channel	offer,	
in the UK and internationally. The strength of the Moss Bros brand will allow us to enhance our position 
as	‘the	UK’s	No.1	Men’s	Formalwear	Specialist’	and	the	executive	team	is	focused	on	bringing	further	
momentum	to	that	strategy.	Although	we	see	a	continuation	of	competitive	market	conditions,	we	are	well	
placed to build on our credentials and to grow our market share.
Finally,	we	would	like	to	thank	our	people	for	their	continued	hard	work	and	contribution	to	another	
successful year.
DEBBIE HEWITT
CHAIRMAN
2 April 2014
*		 	 Like-for-like	represents	financial	information	for	stores	open	during	both	the	cur rent	and	prior	financial	periods	and	compares	52	weeks	against 
52	weeks,	except	for	stores	refitted	in	the	period,	where	the	period	closed	for	refit	is 	excluded	from	both	the	current	and	prior	financial	periods. 
Like–for-like	Hire	sales	are	calculated	on	cash	receipts	in	the	period,	before	adjustme nt	for	the	movement	in	the	level	of	hire	deposits	held.
**	 Adjusted	EBITDA	is	earnings	before	interest,	tax,	depreciation,	amortisation	and	ex ceptional	items	on	continuing	activities.
