 Ben Gordon
Chief executive
Chief executive’s review
Mothercare plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5
Last year we outlined a three year turnaround
programme with the objective of rebuilding Mothercare
and progressing plans for longer-term growth.
We have now completed the first year of the turnaround
programme and are encouraged by the progress we have
made. In the year trading started to recover with like-for-like
store sales up by 5.9 per cent and gross margins up by 
6.2 percentage points.
Clothing sales and margins have grown especially strongly
as our focus on this area, particularly on the high street, 
has paid off. Home and Travel continues to be a strong 
part of our product mix and has provided solid sales and
margin growth. Our strategy to concentrate on higher margin
educational/development toys has meant that toy sales have
declined but overall toy profitability has increased.
Our performance has been driven by the actions we have
taken throughout the year. It is also a reflection of the strength
of the Mothercare brand and the loyalty of our customer base,
and is a credit to our teams across the business.
In the new financial year, we will continue to take the actions
necessary to revitalise Mothercare fully and position the
Company for long-term growth. As previously indicated, we
need to support the business for the long term and this will
involve significant revenue and capital investment, in particular
in central infrastructure and customer service standards.
Delivery of the turnaround is now well established and we
are beginning to look ahead to the next phase of growth for
Mothercare, with particular focus on new store development
in the UK and growing our International business.
Turnaround
Our plan to rebuild the business is focused on five key
projects: store proposition, product and sourcing, supply
chain, our infrastructure and customer service. Throughout
the year, we have made progress with these initiatives.
Store proposition
One of our key priorities during the year has been to define
the Mothercare proposition for our 165 high street stores with
the aim of providing a modern, inviting environment with
product ranges which exceed customer expectations. Early in
the year we carried out trials of both new store environment
and merchandise mix. As a result of these trials we identified
the most successful format, known as ‘Superlite’. We
commenced roll-out of this format in January 2004 and by
the financial year end 35 of our high street stores were refitted.
These refitted stores continue to perform well, achieving
sales growth of some 12 per cent above the average of our
high street stores, generating a cash return on investment
on an annualised basis in excess of 20 per cent.
5.9%
like-for-like UK
store sales
+6.2
percentage 
points
gross margin
improvement Improving quality and availability
6 Mothercare plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Improvements to design,
quality and fashionability 
of ranges have increased
product appeal.
Distribution performing 
well with greater 
availability and further 
cost reductions achieved.
Frog print 
T -shirt
See page 8 
of our Summer 
catalogue Chief executive’s review
continued
Mothercare plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 7
Building on the success of the new format, a further 
17 stores have been refitted since the year end, so that 
35 per cent of our high street space has now been refitted.
We plan to convert a further 40 stores by March 2005, 
with the result that over half of our high street space will
then have been refitted. The balance will be converted in 
the following financial year. The cost of refitting high street
stores in the year was £3.5 million. Our estimate of total
capital expenditure required over the three years for our high
street refit programme remains unchanged at £20 million.
Our 68 out-of-town stores have continued to perform well
as they benefited from the improvements in our customer
offer and other turnaround initiatives. Now that the roll-out 
of the new high street format is fully underway, we are turning
our attention to our out-of-town stores as we believe that
there are opportunities for further improvements particularly in
the largest ones. We have allocated some £8 million of capital
expenditure over the next two years for this programme.
Product and sourcing 
We continue to make strong progress in improving the design,
quality, fashionability and price of our product ranges. We
have rebalanced our ranges with the introduction of a good,
better, best pricing policy to ensure that we have the right
breadth of product offer to meet the requirements of all 
our customers and that we can compete effectively in each
segment of the market. In addition, we believe product
innovation will be an important growth driver and during 
the year we have introduced a number of new products,
particularly in our Home and Travel area. These factors 
will ensure that we continue to differentiate Mothercare’s
product ranges from our competitors.
Effective sourcing is fundamental to providing good 
quality, good value product. During the year we undertook 
a comprehensive review of our sourcing capability and 
made some early progress implementing changes. 
We have consolidated our supplier base from some 80 
to 60 countries, shifting production locations and providing
quality products at better margins. We increased our direct
sourcing of clothing to 30 per cent in the year, compared to
10 per cent two years ago. Our target is to move towards
50 per cent direct sourcing in this area.
Touring Trike
See page 212 
of our Summer 
catalogue
12%
refit
outperformance
52
stores 
refitted Offering a better customer experience
8 Mothercare plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
35 high street stores
refitted by the end of
March and continue to
outperform the chain.
New customer service
standards introduced.
For our
swimming range
See page 7 
of our Summer 
catalogue Chief executive’s review
continued
Mothercare plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 9
Supply chain
Our logistics network has performed increasingly well
throughout the year. This has been achieved by making
tactical changes within the current supply chain to drive 
up productivity and reduce costs. Distribution costs as 
a percentage to sales are now 6.5 per cent compared to
8.1 per cent last year. In the short term we will continue 
to improve the efficiency of our current operations with a
target run-rate of 6 per cent to sales by March 2005.
We are undertaking a detailed analysis of our entire 
logistics network to determine the most appropriate and
cost effective supply chain for Mothercare. Part of the work
has been to understand which is the best route for our 
wide range of products to reach our customers and from that
analysis to determine what our supply chain of the future
should be. We are making good progress with this project
and will provide a full update on our plans in November.
Improved product availability has also been a key factor 
in driving sales growth during the year. Availability is now
over 80 per cent compared to 65 per cent in January 2003.
Whilst this is a big improvement it is still not good enough
and going forward our target is to secure availability in
excess of 90 per cent by the end of the turnaround phase.
To achieve this we have identified a range of actions from
significant systems enhancements to small procedural
changes, which we will undertake during the coming year.
However, improvements will be gradual and will also be
dependent on the work we are carrying out to define the
longer-term supply chain requirements for Mothercare.
Infrastructure 
The lack of investment in the infrastructure of the business
has been a significant factor in the historic under-performance
of Mothercare. Our first priority has been to implement a
modern merchandise planning system which will allow us to
plan and manage our product ranges more effectively. This
major project was implemented on schedule in April 2004
and will be of substantial benefit as we plan our ranges for
Spring/Summer 2005.
Check bibshorts
See page 19
of our Summer 
catalogue
30%
clothing
sourced
directly
80%
availability 
level Chief executive’s review
continued
10 Mothercare plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
The replacement of our ageing store EPOS systems is also
a key priority as it is an essential part of improving customer
service. The development of the system is approaching
completion with a trial due to start in July and roll-out is
scheduled to commence in the Autumn. We plan that the
roll-out will be completed by March 2006.
As indicated at our interim results in November, we 
expect that the investment in these systems, together 
with further enhancements to central and distribution
systems, will be some £15 million over the three years 
of the turnaround programme.
Customer service
Given the nature of our products and the life stage of 
our customers, the delivery of excellent customer service 
is vital to the success of Mothercare. As a specialty retailer,
customer service is a key differentiator and an opportunity
to gain real competitive advantage.
Our immediate priority has been to reinstate basic retailing
disciplines and then to introduce a number of initiatives 
to raise store and service standards across the chain. 
We have introduced new standards, roles, processes,
communications and performance measurement with the
aim of changing the culture of the business so it becomes
genuinely customer-driven. We have created stores of
excellence to help cascade this best practice and ensure
consistency throughout the portfolio. Whilst we have 
made good progress in this area there is much more 
work to be done in the coming year and it will require 
further investment, particularly in training and rewards.
Long-term growth
The priority last year was to get the turnaround programme
fully underway and we have now completed one full year of
our three-year programme. The next phase includes a focus
on new store development and our International and Direct
businesses to help drive long-term growth.
New store development
We have now completed a review of our store portfolio 
in the UK. This review has examined market sizes, 
customer catchments, existing store locations and 
potential new locations, taking into account potential 
store sales, operating performance and rent levels. The
review demonstrated that overall our existing portfolio is 
in good locations. However, it also identified areas where
our store portfolio needs rebalancing to achieve optimal 
size and locations. In addition, it identified some 40 further
high street and 20 out-of-town locations where Mothercare
could trade successfully. Chief executive’s review
continued
Mothercare plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 11
We have therefore initiated a store opening programme.
Once established we plan to open new stores, of different
sizes depending on their location, at a rate of some five to
ten per annum. Our focus is to obtain locations which meet
our returns targets. It will take time to establish a pipeline 
of suitable sites so we would not expect the programme to
commence fully until 2005. We have however already secured
one new out-of-town location at Thurrock Lakeside, Essex,
where a new 10,000 sq ft store is planned to open in
September 2004. We expect the capital expenditure on 
new stores will be some £10 million over the next two years.
International
Our International franchise business continues to perform
well. It is benefiting from the improvements we are making in
product quality, design and availability and its performance
demonstrates the popularity of the Mothercare brand overseas.
During the year 26 new stores were opened in a number 
of countries where Mothercare already has a presence
including Greece, Spain and Russia. We have identified the
potential for a significant number of new stores in existing
territories over the next three years. Our analysis shows that
the potential exists to open some 30 stores per annum and
21 are already scheduled to open in the coming year. A vital
element of our business model is the partnership between
Mothercare and the franchisee in developing these territories.
Mothercare Direct 
Our Direct business is an important element of our strategy
to be a multi-channel retailer. Direct does this in two ways;
firstly, through in-store web ordering, it allows smaller stores
to offer a wider catalogue range to their customers. Future
plans will see this capability rolled out to more stores, and
Direct carrying a wider range.
Secondly, Direct provides Mothercare with the potentially
powerful capability to develop further customer relationships.
Over the next two to three years we will be enhancing 
these capabilities to better understand and target our
customers’ needs.
3 Wheeler
See page 150 
of our Summer 
catalogue
26
new 
International
stores
60
UK store
opportunities
