 Chairman’s statement
Mothercare plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 3
This has been an extraordinary year for Mothercare.
Profit before tax exceeded £23.9 million for the year
under review, a much stronger outcome than anyone
predicted at the beginning of the period.
It compares with a loss of £24.8 million in 2002–03. Underlying
this profit improvement is a Company which is beginning to
transform. Product is of higher quality and greater appeal
than before and is more available on the shelves. More
stores look bright and exciting and sales staff have become
confident in our ability to provide the customer with what
they want at the right price.
Credit for these improvements goes principally to Ben Gordon,
and to the skilled and energetic management team which he
has brought together. It is also due to the enthusiasm of the
staff who have responded so well to their leadership. I should
like to thank Ben and everyone in the Company who has
worked so hard to produce these most encouraging results.
Last year was the first year of a three year turnaround and
much remains to be done. I urge you to read the description
of risk factors on page 19 of this report and to balance these
risks against the huge opportunities which exist for Mothercare.
At the annual general meeting last summer we said that we
would resume dividend payments when we had reached 
a position of sustained profitability. Barring unexpected
events, your board judges that this point has been reached.
Accordingly we are pleased to recommend a final dividend
of 4.0 pence. Our intention, subject of course to trading
performance, is to provide investors with a dividend 
growing strongly and steadily. In normal circumstances 
we would expect that any final dividend would be twice 
the interim dividend.
During the last two years we have been fortunate to have the
backing of some major institutional shareholders. I should like
to thank them for their support during this difficult period.
Ian Peacock
Chairman
£23. 9m
profit
before tax
4p
final
dividend Investing in the business
4 Mothercare plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Planned £60 million
investment in stores,
infrastructure and
systems to support
long-term growth.
Hawaiian print
sundress
See page 18 
of our Summer 
catalogue
