 I was delighted to be approached and appointed Chairman of 
Mothercare last year. For over 50 years, Mothercare has been one 
of the pre-eminent names on the UK high street and ELC has over 
the last 30 years represented innovation and quality as a toy brand. 
The strengths of both brands, with a network of strong and 
passionate international franchisees, are clear assets of the 
Company, complemented by its sourcing operations.
The trading results of the UK business have worsened over the past 
two years. On becoming Chairman, it became evident from an early 
stage that signiﬁcant changes within the business were required. 
I assumed the role of Executive Chairman in November 2011, with 
a view to implementing these changes following the resignation 
of Ben Gordon as Chief Executive.
The board then carried out a thorough structural and operational 
review of the whole business, with the input of expert external 
consultants. The key elements of that review – the ‘Transformation 
and Growth’ plan – are set out in this report. In essence, we have a 
plan to transform the UK business to reﬂect the needs of customers 
and the changes in their shopping habits, while accelerating the 
group’s successful expansion internationally.
  After a thorough search process, the board appointed Simon 
Calver as the new Chief Executive. Simon has the skills, experience, 
passion and leadership expertise to put the Company on a much 
stronger and more proﬁtable footing
  Having the right people in place is a critical factor to the success 
of the ‘Transformation and Growth’ of the business. I have 
reshaped the executive team, so that now we have Mike Logue as 
Managing Director UK, and Jerry Cull as Managing Director 
International, each with ownership for their respective businesses. 
Their teams will be more focused and aligned to delivering the 
results we require
  It was clear that costs in the business had to be tackled quickly 
to reﬂect the reduction in the store estate in the UK. We now have 
a clear programme in place to tackle these costs which included 
a well managed and professional consultation process at the 
Watford head ofﬁce. This resulted in some job losses both in 
Watford and our overseas ofﬁces, which were greatly regrettable
Chairman’s statement
“ We have a robust plan for 
transformation and growth with 
new, strong leadership capable 
of delivering the results.”
 Alan Parker CBE 
 Chairman
08  Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2012   We have worked with our banks, who have been supportive of 
our business strategy by agreeing to provide increased facilities 
to allow the Company to take some of the decisive steps required 
under the ‘Transformation and Growth’ plan
  We have carried out a thorough, externally facilitated board 
evaluation process to review the overall effectiveness of the board 
and its interaction with the Company’s executive management
In addition, the Company has made signiﬁcant progress over the 
last year in a number of areas:
  International retail space of Mothercare and ELC products 
increased by 23.7 per cent (over 400,000 sq. ft. of extra space)
  The UK business reduced its estate by 62 stores, demonstrating 
that the Company is in the vanguard of reshaping its business 
to reﬂect the new customer shopping trends
  A completely new website was launched in May 2012 which 
signiﬁcantly improves the online shopping experience with 
Mothercare through computers or smart phones
Since Simon’s appointment as our new Chief Executive I have 
reverted to the position of non-executive Chairman and will ensure 
that the appropriate governance and oversight of the Company will 
be maintained.
I believe we have put the Company on the right course for success, 
and that the actions that have been taken over a period of 
nearly six months will allow Simon and his team to re-establish the 
relationship with our customers as a priority, continue to address 
the structural issues in the UK business, and to restore the 
group’s proﬁtability.
I appreciate the strength of support that I have received from our 
franchise partners around the world. Without doubt, this is a vital 
attribute to the strength and future development of the group. 
I would like to say a big thank you to our franchise partners for 
their support.
Also, I would like to recognise the hard work and loyalty of the 
many thousands of team members during a difﬁcult year. Their 
commitment continues to be a remarkable feature and remains 
fundamental to our future success.
Finally, on behalf of the board, I should like to thank Ian Peacock, 
who retired after nine years as Chairman of Mothercare, for his 
leadership of the Company and contribution to the business.
 
Alan Parker CBE 
Chairman
Worldwide network sales
International is now a larger part of 
our business and is set to grow by 
circa 20 per cent per annum
International 55%
UK 45%
 
 
 
23.7%
Increase in international retail space
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2012  09 
Overview
