 I am delighted to say that the performance of our Company 
during the past year has been transformational, particularly 
in its profitability, its international reach and, through the 
acquisition of the Early Learning Centre, its brand development.
This performance has been the result of hard work and 
application over the past five years since Ben Gordon and his 
management team began the task of reviving our Company. 
As we have reported regularly over this period, there has been 
remarkable progress. It is evident from any visit to our stores 
that the quality, availability and range of product has 
improved radically, as have the stores themselves and the 
specialist service that we are able to provide to our customers. 
These improvements have been reflected in much improved 
commercial and financial performance in terms of total 
shareholder return, market capitalisation, profit and sales 
growth as the accompanying graphs show.
We have also taken steps to reduce the financial and operating 
risks in the business, both in terms of fixed charge cover (the 
measure of how much of our surplus is paid away in rental and 
interest payments) and gearing.
The acquisition of the Early Learning Centre provides us with a 
number of opportunities. We now have two world class brands 
which are recognised and accepted in 49 countries and whose 
potential in these and new markets is, in our view, enormous. 
In the UK, the combination of the two brands should produce 
revenue enhancements and cost savings, particularly in the 
areas of property, distribution and sourcing.
We are in the vanguard of internet trading. Customers can buy 
a wide range of products through our Mothercare and ELC 
internet sites, either from home or in any of our UK Mothercare 
and ELC stores. We opened a joint venture social networking 
site, gurgle.com, last year. All told, our internet sales in 2007/08 
exceeded £85 million.
Dear Fellow Investor
Ian Peacock
Chairman’s statement
‘   We now have two world 
class brands, operating 
in 49 countries.’
Sales growth
£ million
04
446.9 457.2
482.7
498.5
05 06 07
676.8
08
Profit growth
Underlying profit from operations 
before interest
£ million
04
15.8
17.9
19.5
21.0
05 06 07
38.5
08
4 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Based on the work done over the past five years, and 
the opportunities which our two brands and our internet 
platforms provide, we believe that we are well placed 
to continue the transformation of the group from a UK 
retailer with some international franchises to a global 
branded group with a mixture of ‘owned’ and ‘franchised’ 
national businesses.
In the UK we shall continue to strengthen the Company 
through increasing sales per square foot and implementing 
the benefits arising from the Mothercare/ELC integration. 
We will explore different Mothercare/ELC formats and 
continue to develop ways in which we can help our customers 
shop in the most effective and easiest ways.
Overseas, we believe that we are only constrained by the 
practical limits on speed of growth without taking undue risk. 
Sales expansion will come from increased sales in current 
outlets, new stores in current franchise areas and new 
franchises. We may also consider investing directly in some 
markets, as we have already done in China. 
All businesses involve risk and we have outlined some of 
those risks which we face on pages 30 and 31. I would just 
like to comment upon two particular risks:
1.  The global economy benefits from broadly free market 
policies both in developed and developing countries. 
If protectionism were to become widespread, we would 
suffer both directly through obstacles to our goods being 
traded and indirectly through lower economic growth 
leading to lower consumer demand.
2.  Our results remain sensitive to fluctuations in UK customer 
demand. Over the next five years we aim to become less 
dependent on the vicissitudes of any one economy but, 
necessarily, reducing that dependence will take time.
Total shareholder return
31 March 2003 to 31 March 2008
Source: Datastream 
y/e Mar 03 y/e Mar 05 y/e Mar 04 y/e Mar 06 y/e Mar 07 y/e Mar 08
450
375
300
225
150
75
0
Mothercare plc
FTSE SmallCap
General retailers index
Evolution of market cap
Source: Datastream 
2003 2005 2004 2006 2007
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Mothercare plc market value
FTSE All share general retailers 
£ price index
We have made huge progress over the last five years. Given 
a reasonable economic climate over the next five years, we 
plan to take further steps towards our aim of becoming a 
global branded goods business.
I would particularly like to draw your attention to the report 
on corporate social responsibility on pages 20-25 that shows 
our commitment to policies designed to reflect the concerns 
of our customers and care for the environment.
I should like to thank all our management and staff for their 
hard work, skill and good humour during what has been a 
very eventful year. In particular Ben and his executive 
committee have all taken on significant extra responsibilities 
for the integration of the two businesses while retaining 
responsibility for the effective trading of each brand. I should 
also like to thank the board – Karren Brady, Bernard Cragg, 
Ben Gordon, Neil Harrington and David Williams for their 
support, advice and wisdom.
Ian R Peacock
Chairman
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5 Specialism
Business review
Care starts with 
Mothercare
We aim to be the leading specialist company  
for parents around the world. 
Meeting the needs and 
aspirations of parents for 
their children, worldwide
New products such as room 
humidifiers keep us as front 
runners in helping parents 
care for their children
Helping children  
be all they can be
Toys to develop skills
Developing  
the child at ELC
6 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2008
