 Group results
Worldwide network sales grew by 6.4 per cent to £1,232.4 million 
(2011: £1,158.1 million), driven by the growth of our International 
business but tempered by the continued decline seen in the UK. 
Group sales, which reﬂect UK revenues and the payments we 
receive from our International partners, were up 2.4 per cent to 
£812.7 million (2011: £793.6 million).
The decline in proﬁts in the 53 week period has however been 
disappointing with a reduction in underlying proﬁt before tax to 
£1.6 million, down from £28.5 million last year. International has 
continued to grow rapidly, but the UK has struggled in the face 
of a challenging economic backdrop and an increasingly 
competitive environment.
Underlying proﬁt before tax declined to £1.6 million (2011: £28.5 million) 
with exceptional charges and other non-underlying items of 
£104.5 million (2011: £19.7 million) resulting in reported losses before 
tax of £102.9 million (2011: proﬁt of £8.8 million).
The non-underlying charge of £104.5 million includes £104.4 million of 
exceptional items including a non-cash write down of UK goodwill 
and other intangibles already announced in the ﬁrst half, together 
with a provision for restructuring costs to deliver the ‘Transformation 
and Growth’ plan.
Whilst over 70 per cent of the exceptional charges are non-cash items, 
the decline in UK proﬁtability and the need to fund an additional 
quarterly rent payment (due to the 53rd week in this ﬁnancial year) 
have resulted in a year-end net debt position of £20.1 million (2011: net 
cash position of £15.3 million). Over the next three years we will be 
incurring cash restructuring costs of circa £35 million in total. We 
recently reﬁnanced our banking facilities to fund the ‘Transformation 
and Growth’ plan, increasing committed facilities to £90 million, 
extending the term to May 2015 and resetting bank covenants 
(see Financial Review for more details).
As we announced in April, the board has decided to suspend the 
dividend until the ‘Transformation and Growth’ plan delivers a 
marked improvement in our results. There will therefore be no ﬁnal 
dividend payment this year, which means the payout for the full year 
is 2.0p per share.
Chief Executive’s statement
“ We need to bring the customer with us... 
they need to be at the centre of every 
decision we make. As a team, this is 
our most important delivery yet.”
 Simon Calver 
 Chief Executive
1,339 stores
Across 59 markets
10  Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2012 International results
Total International sales were up 17.8 per cent to £672.4 million 
(2011: £570.9 million) with total reported sales up 22.4 per cent to 
£252.7 million (2011: £206.4 million). International underlying operating 
proﬁts were up 26.9 per cent to £34.9 million (2011: £27.5 million). This 
proﬁt comprised franchise proﬁts of £38.1 million and joint venture 
and associate start-up losses of £3.2 million.
We now have three joint ventures and an associate. While our new 
joint venture in the Ukraine is proﬁtable, our joint ventures in India 
and China and our Australian associate are start-up operations and 
as such have made, in total, a £3.2 million loss for the period. We see 
our equity stakes in these markets as an important investment in 
future growth opportunities.
We have laid the foundations with our franchise partners that will 
see an acceleration in revenue and proﬁt growth. We remain the 
only specialist mother and baby retailer in this position in the 
world today.
We have great franchise partners many of which I have already 
had the pleasure of meeting. They have such enthusiasm and 
passion for our brands and are excited by their potential in each 
of their countries.
Group revenues
+2.4%
Helped by International, group 
sales continued to grow
Our business model
Our business is fully integrated across all our 59 countries. 
Our International markets operate on a franchise model, 
which means store operations are managed by our 
partners, while in the UK we manage our stores directly. It is 
important to know that these differences in who manages 
stores and the sale of our products, means that there is no 
difference in the lifecycle of our product ranges, which we 
manage across our global ofﬁces in the UK, India, China, 
Hong Kong and more recently Bangladesh.
The product cycle starts at the concept stage where we 
consider our existing ranges, global trends and customer 
needs. We then test these concepts through customer 
focus groups. This gives us great insight into price points 
and the best pricing architecture, thus allowing us to arrive 
at relevant ranges at the good, better, best price points. 
At the design stage, we are always considering how we 
can help our customers by meeting their needs but also by 
considering the quality that our customers have come to 
expect from Mothercare.
Once we have product ready for our stores, merchandisers 
across all our markets consider the ranges and place their 
orders. It is our job then to source efﬁciently and ensure 
product is manufactured to our high standards. We then 
distribute product to all our markets ensuring timely 
delivery while also ensuring store staff across all our 
markets are trained in how best to sell our products.
Product design
Manufacture
Distribution
Consumer feedback
Sourcing
UK International
Product concept
2011 £793.6m
2010
2012
£766.4m
£812.7m
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2012  11 
Overview Chief Executive’s statement
continued
UK results
Total UK sales were down 4.6 per cent at £560.0 million (2011: 
£587.2 million) with a like-for-like sales decline of 6.2 per cent. Total 
Direct sales were up 0.8 per cent at £130.0 million (2011: £129.0 million) 
with Direct in Home down 1.7 per cent at £91.7 million and Direct in 
Store up 7.3 per cent at £38.3 million. Our wholesale channel grew by 
44.9 per cent to £31.3 million.
Trading conditions in the UK deteriorated as we moved through the 
year. Although we have gained some market share in home & travel, 
the market was particularly weak and while we have gained some 
market share, sales were impacted by the reduction in the overall 
size of the market. We have managed stock levels very tightly over 
the year through additional promotions and offers and, as a result, 
we ended the third quarter with a clean stock position and a 
reduced gross margin which was, as expected, down 500 basis 
points for the full year. The UK segment of the Mothercare group 
recorded a loss of £24.7 million (2011: proﬁt of £11.1 million) for the year.
Our brands
The Mothercare and the Early Learning Centre brands resonate 
strongly with mothers across the globe. The strength of the 
International business and franchise partners has allowed us to 
grow robustly and is a clear indication of the relevance of both 
brands in our overseas and UK markets. We now have 1,339 stores 
worldwide across 59 markets – 409 in Europe, 318 in Asia, 311 in the 
UK, 290 in the Middle East and Africa and 11 in Latin America 
following our recent launch. In the UK over 80 per cent of expectant 
mothers continue to visit our stores and our challenge is to convert 
more of these visitors to loyal, long term customers.
Mothercare was founded in 1961 and has since its earliest days 
endeavoured to offer mothers-to-be, new mothers and their babies 
and children up to the age of eight innovative and quality products 
at great value that are relevant to their lives. Our ranges include 
products for feeding, bathing, travel equipment, maternity wear and 
associated product, children’s clothing, furniture, bedding and toys. 
Whilst we remain an important source of information and support for 
mothers-to-be and new mothers, I realise that we can do a lot more. 
These improvements will become increasingly apparent to our 
customers as we move through our three-year ‘Transformation and 
Growth’ plan.
Early Learning Centre was founded in 1971 and has its roots in a mail 
order business that today includes 462 stores worldwide, the internet 
and a small but growing wholesale business. ELC aims to provide 
babies and children up to the age of eight years nurturing toys 
that encourage learning and development in a fun and 
supportive manner.
Our strategy
We have over the last few months completed a thorough review of 
our business, both UK and International. This review forms the basis 
of our ‘Transformation and Growth’ plan, which is essential to deliver 
UK proﬁtability and accelerate International growth. The group’s 
task is to deliver this over the next three years.
Actions already taken
In International, we opened our ﬁrst stores in Latin America. We also 
took our ﬁrst steps towards a multi-channel offer with transactional 
websites for Early Learning Centre in Russia and Australia and for 
Worldwide network sales
+6.4%
Our scale continues to grow with 
worldwide network sales up
ELC 36 per cent newness A/W 2011
Stores 86%
Direct 11%
 
 
 Wholesale 3%
 
 
 
12  Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Mothercare in Kuwait, Ireland and Australia with Mothercare 
Indonesia launching in June 2012.
In the UK, we continued our store rationalisation plan and ended the 
year with 311 stores. On 1 May 2012 we launched our new website.
Our senior management team continues to be strengthened. 
Mike Logue, our UK Managing Director, has been with the business 
since August 2011 and is building a strong UK team to assist him 
in the task ahead. I joined on 30 April 2012 and Jerry Cull our 
International Managing Director, who has been with the business 
for over 30 years, continues to drive International forward.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Alan Parker our 
Chairman, who stepped up to an executive role, for his leadership 
of the business over the last few months. Our review is now complete 
and I have a clear strategy in the ‘Transformation and Growth’ plan, 
which we will implement over the next three years. It is in essence a 
simple plan – accelerate International growth while returning the UK 
to proﬁtability through cost reduction and transformation. This will be 
our most important delivery yet. In addition, the customer will return 
to the centre of everything that we do. Our success will be driven by 
our ability to reconnect with them, converting more into shoppers 
both online and in-store.
Our strategy is based on the four cornerstones of:
  Lean retail
  Restore UK proﬁtability
  Accelerate International growth
  Multi-channel worldwide
Summary
I am excited to have joined the Mothercare group as Chief Executive 
and I am conﬁdent about the opportunities ahead. Worldwide 
network sales are up 6.4 per cent and our brands remain as relevant 
to our customers today as they ever have been. I have been fully 
involved in the formulation of the ‘Transformation and Growth’ plan 
and I know that it is both the right plan and one which the team and 
I can deliver.
We have a long way to go, and the plan to bring the UK business 
back to acceptable levels of proﬁtability will take three years. We 
need to invest in e-commerce, be ruthless with our non-store cost 
base and use our scale and growth worldwide to drive sourcing 
economies and pass these savings onto the customers to improve 
our value for money around the world. Everything we do will 
enhance customer value, experience and loyalty in each of our 
59 countries. My team and I are up for the challenge and, whilst 
there is much to do in this difﬁcult economic climate, I look forward 
to delivering the ‘Transformation and Growth’ plan. As a team, this 
will be our most important delivery yet.
Simon Calver 
Chief Executive
UK OOT stores
-3.5%
Our space in sq. ft. was down 
3.5 per cent as we migrated to 
larger OOT stores during the year
2011 98
2010
2012
87
103
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2012  13 
Overview Chief Executive’s statement
‘Transformation and Growth’ plan: 
The four cornerstones
1. Lean retail
Lean retail means delivering 
operational efﬁciencies and 
substantial non-store cost reductions, 
tightly managing cash and working 
capital and building on the scale of 
our sourcing operations.
Reduce UK non-store costs by 
£20 million per annum (annualised)
Our infrastructure is larger than we 
require, given our new smaller UK 
operating base. We have identiﬁed 
£20 million of annualised costs that 
can be taken out of the business over 
the next three years from areas like 
distribution, head ofﬁce costs and 
payroll. Work has already begun 
in this area and we have taken action 
to reduce UK head ofﬁce payroll 
costs by 16 per cent.
In addition, we reduced UK stock 
levels by 12 per cent during FY2011/12 
and plan to continue to drive down 
our working capital requirements.
Sourcing efﬁciencies
Our buying volumes continue to grow 
despite the recent decline seen in the 
UK. International growth of circa 20 
per cent provides us with a strong 
base from which to underpin 
negotiations with our supplier base to 
reduce costs that we can pass on to 
our customers in lower prices, further 
driving growth.
Category mix
Clothing and home & travel are 
expected to grow as a percentage 
of sales as Early Learning Centre 
stores are closed in the UK which will 
help to underpin our gross margins. 
An increased focus on innovation 
should also help to drive sales of 
own-brand product and again 
increase margin. These changes 
in category mix are expected to 
lower prices whilst maintaining 
gross margins.
2. Restore UK  
proﬁtability
Restoring UK proﬁtability means 
delivering proﬁtable growth through 
targeted and speciﬁc actions aimed 
at stabilising like-for-like sales and 
reducing signiﬁcantly store 
occupancy costs.
National coverage
We have identiﬁed that circa 200 
stores in the UK is the optimum size for 
Mothercare supported by online and 
wholesale business. This will offer the 
best national coverage of mother and 
baby specialists in the UK. These 
stores will not only be a place for 
shopping, customer service and 
advice but will also offer our ‘Collect 
in Store’ service, whereby online 
orders can be collected from stores. 
The target 200 stores chain is based 
around our proﬁtable Mothercare out 
of town stores, key Mothercare in town 
stores and Early Learning Centres in 
key strategic locations. The target 200 
store portfolio is currently proﬁtable. 
The stores to be closed currently lose 
circa £13 million per annum and these 
stores will be closed by 2015.
Increase value and innovation across 
our product ranges
We have lost ground in terms of our 
value perception and we need to 
change this. We aim to have a clear 
pricing architecture with good, better 
and best ranges all offering value to 
the customer in terms of quality and 
price. An increase in own-brand and 
third-party exclusivity over the term of 
the plan will also help to improve our 
value credentials.
In addition over the next few quarters 
we will continue to launch new and 
innovative products focused on solving 
the needs of mums and babies.
Enhance customer service and 
improve in-store environment
We are investing in additional training 
for all store staff and will have started 
with specialist ﬁtters for car seats 
and bras in all our stores at all times. 
We have also begun in-store 
investment focusing on ﬁtting rooms 
and baby feeding and changing 
facilities, which are important to 
our mums.
Customer satisfaction measurement 
by store has recently been introduced 
and will further help us to track daily 
store level performance. It is essential 
that in all of our markets we set, not 
follow, the standards of service that 
mothers expect, to retain the trust of 
our customers.
14  Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2012 3. Accelerate  
International 
growth
Accelerating International growth 
means increasing sales in existing 
markets, targeting new markets and 
focusing on key growth regions – 
China, India, the Middle East and 
Latin America.
Mothercare is a brand with truly 
global reach. Our International 
business continues to go from strength 
to strength. We have great franchise 
partners and proven concepts for 
Mothercare and Early Learning Centre 
across the emerging markets, which 
will drive space and revenue growth 
of approximately 20 per cent per 
annum over the term of the plan.
We are now in four regions and each 
is delivering strong growth for us. 
Europe (which includes Eastern 
Europe) and the Middle East and 
Africa, our two largest and oldest 
regions, are expected to deliver 
growth of 10 per cent per annum. Asia-
Paciﬁc is expected to grow by 20 per 
cent per annum while our newest 
region Latin America is expected to 
grow by over 100 per cent per annum, 
albeit from a lower base. Our business 
is well balanced and each region 
beneﬁts from some high growth 
markets. In particular we believe 
Saudi Arabia, Russia, China, India and 
Latin America will drive growth over 
the term of the plan. Overall, we 
expect International retail sales to 
grow by 20 per cent per annum over 
the next three years to March 2015.
Our joint ventures in the Ukraine, 
China and India and our Australian 
associate are all on track to be 
proﬁtable by March 2014.
4. Multi-channel 
worldwide
Multi-channel worldwide means 
launching new e-commerce platforms 
in the UK and all major overseas 
markets, growing both online revenues 
and store sales and putting 
Mothercare back into the lead.
New UK platform
In line with the plan we launched our 
new UK e-commerce platform for both 
direct to home and in-store ordering 
on 1 May 2012. The new website is a 
step change from the old legacy one 
with richer product content, improved 
search capabilities and better visibility 
for search engines. However, this is just 
the start but it has enabled us to have 
and use the tools commonplace 
across the industry to drive conversion 
and sales. Mothers are becoming 
much more informed and for many of 
our categories, signiﬁcant research is 
done online before customers visit our 
stores. Having a great website will 
therefore grow both online revenues 
and in-store sales. As the number one 
baby website we have a large 
amount of trafﬁc to our site and can 
increase conversion by doing the 
basics well. Thereafter we will begin to 
build long relationships with our 
customers, growing with them as their 
family does.
We have launched a new website in 
the UK and will build the capability to 
become one of the leading online 
players in the UK over the next three 
years. We will be redeveloping and 
reconﬁguring our delivery network, 
our technology teams and our loyalty 
and retention tools but we can and 
will get there.
International websites
In addition, we will lead the move to 
multi-channel in our International 
markets with fully operational websites 
in ﬁve markets. Our existing platform 
has now been tested and is easily 
scalable across all our markets. 
We aim to have transactional websites 
across our major markets over the 
term of the plan, many of which will 
be some of the ﬁrst such sites in their 
markets in any category.
Wholesale
Mini club, our wholesale arrangement 
with Boots UK for clothing, has been 
a great success. In addition to this we 
have a small but growing wholesale 
business for ELC product both in the 
UK and Internationally. We have, over 
the last few months, successfully 
trialed with several retailers. 
Wholesale is a great format for 
growing our reach for ELC and we 
would expect this element of our 
revenues to grow over the term of 
the plan.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2012  15 
Overview
