 > Focus on long-term managed services contracts
> Partnerships created with key clients in key markets
> Unique set of technical, commercial and financial services
Our strategy
2
Mouchel’s strategy is to continue to
develop a fast growing, sustainable and
high value Managed Services business,
using the company’s established and
profitable Management Consultancy
and Project Services businesses to
strengthen our proposition.
Managed Services
We are focused on meeting growing
demand for expert outsourced support
services in both the public and private
sectors. We provide clients with a unique
combination of technical, commercial
and financial services by working with
them to: 
• Formulate their strategy and policy
• Develop their people, their organisation
and their services
• Operate and optimise their
infrastructure assets and 
service delivery
Our early success in securing long-term
managed services contracts has provided
us with a solid platform for growth, based
on an order book of £308 million at
year end – an increase of 86% on last
year’s final order book.
The right markets
We are focused on market sectors
which have a significant infrastructure
asset base requiring:
• Complex operational management
• Significant maintenance and 
development expenditure
• New solutions for strategy, 
management and funding
We currently operate in the following
markets – Strategic Highways, Local
Highways, Property, Rail, Education,
Defence, Law and Order, Oil and Gas,
Marine and Waste.
The right clients
We are focused on developing long-term
partnerships with key clients. We tailor
our operations around the changing
needs of these organisations, using 
our key client programme to ensure 
we develop and deliver the support
services they need to thrive.
The right people
We have an open style of management
that works to bond the aspirations 
and development of our professional
staff with our objectives as a company.
Our share schemes have helped 
to nurture a rare and positive spirit,
encouraging a sense of staff ownership
and a commitment to personal and
organisational growth. Our approach
has been recognised by the award 
of ‘Investors In People’.
Acquisitions and alliances
There are a number of companies
operating in our market sectors whose
skills and relationships could help us 
to secure managed services contracts.
We will pursue acquisitions and
alliances with selected companies 
if they are able to complement and
extend our existing range of services,
helping us to deliver greater value to
our clients and our shareholders.
Moving towards private funding
We see opportunities for managed
services arising from the increasing use
of private sector funding for public sector
infrastructure. Our approach is to pursue
selective opportunities in areas where
there are quality long-term service
revenue streams, and where our set of
experience, knowledge and skills gives
us a strong competitive advantage.
Developing the future
The public continues to express serious
concern over the state and standard 
of the nation’s infrastructure and public
services. The government’s positive
response to public opinion is creating
unprecedented opportunities for
companies providing support services.
We have shaped our business to be 
in the best possible position to benefit
from this exceptionally promising 
long-term market. 5
I believe our rare combination of technical,
commercial and financial skills is the
primary reason for our current growth.
There are many companies operating in
and across our market sectors – none
are able to match our mix of skills and
experience. Strategic alliances and
recent acquisitions have enhanced 
our proposition considerably.
We have a powerful impact on our clients’
activities. Our increasingly impressive
record for delivering real improvements
in efficiency and value for money is also
helping us to develop new opportunities
within existing client relationships. For
example, our property management work
for Kent County Council has helped 
us to win further contracts with Kent’s
Magistrates Courts and an additional 
£6 million contract with the council for
estates management services.
New types of opportunity
We have changed the strategic focus 
of Mouchel quite quickly, moving from
provision of engineering services to our
concentration on Managed Services
supported by Project Services and
Management Consultancy. 
We are confident our clients understand
how and why we have evolved, and that
is important – it gives us credibility and
encourages them to consider us for
new opportunities. For example, with
the Highways Agency we are now both 
a Managing Agent Contractor and a 
co-developer of next generation solutions,
such as the UK’s first Active Traffic
Management system – an innovation
which could transform traffic flow on
motorways during peak periods.
Private Finance 
– balancing risk and reward
An increasing number of private finance
initiatives (PFIs) are being introduced
across the public sector.
We are very selective in our approach.
We only develop bids when the resulting
contract corresponds to our strategy of
securing long-term partnerships with
quality clients in key markets. 
If appropriate, we will use our own
funds to help us secure the right work,
with our successful IPO helping us in
this regard. Where necessary we will
strengthen our position through an
alliance. We will also support clients in
their bids for PFI contracts, but only
where there is potential for us to work
as a long-term partner.
Of course, PFI is not a new challenge for
Mouchel. Since 1995 our management
consultants have advised our clients on
PFI/PPP transactions valued at £7 billion.
Now we are benefiting from our own
experience in this area.
Growing the value of Mouchel
Our results this year, together with 
our strong position in an exceptionally
promising market, give me confidence
in our ability to grow the value of our
business. I am also confident that we 
can play an increasingly valuable role 
in helping to create more efficient
services in the UK.
With such a clear purpose and vision, 
I look forward to Mouchel achieving
excellent progress over the next 
12 months.
Richard Benton
Chairman
> Unique set of strengths, skills and services in place
> Market opportunities of more than £2 billion
> Clear strategy for maximising private finance initiatives
Chairman’s statement
These are extraordinary times for Mouchel
and for our industry as a whole.
In the public sector, the government’s
commitment to deliver better services 
is creating a wide range of high value
opportunities, driven forward by major
policy initiatives. In both public and
private sectors, an increasing number 
of organisations are focusing on their
core customer related activities while
turning to specialists such as Mouchel
to develop, manage and optimise 
their infrastructure.
A £2 billion opportunity
These developments have grown total
expenditure in our chosen market sectors
to more than £21 billion per annum.
Within this, we have identified current,
addressable sales opportunities for
Mouchel of more than £2 billion.
This constitutes an extremely healthy
market opportunity. It is also a market 
in which a significant proportion of growth
is independent of macro-economic
cycles, with many managed services
contracts guaranteeing secure long-term
revenue streams. Our order book reflects
this, with more than £308 million worth
of secured orders in place – an excellent
achievement which reflects the strength
of our strategy and the calibre of 
our people.
Understanding and meeting 
client needs
Despite the promise of a robust 
market, we must not lose sight of 
the fundamental equation at the 
heart of our business. Put simply, 
our success is determined by how 
well we understand and meet our
customers’ changing needs.
