 During the year we also tendered for and
secured four Highways Agency Super
Agency contracts in joint venture with
Amey Highways Limited. The duration 
of these contracts ranges between
three and five years, excluding potential
extensions, and their combined annual
value to Mouchel amounts to around
£24 million. The South West and East
Anglia contracts commenced on 1 June
2002, and West Midlands and North
West commenced on 1 July 2002.
This year we successfully re-tendered
for the Hertfordshire County Council
Highways and Transportation contract,
which we originally secured in October
1997. The new contract commenced in
October 2002 and has an annual value
of £8 million. It has an initial term of seven
years and is potentially extendable by 
a further three years.
During the year we secured three new
Highways Agency contracts for traffic
management systems – a technology
framework contract, the Active Traffic
Management Scheme and the Regional
Maintenance Contractor Managing
Consultant contract. The duration of
these contracts is between four and six
years, with an aggregate annual value
of £3 million.
> Strong growth in turnover and profits
> New service streams introduced to meet client demand
> Reorganisation creating new opportunities
Chief Executive’s review
The facts and figures of our performance
this year speak for themselves: Group
turnover up by 43%, pre-tax profits 
up 28% and a forward order book of
£308 million. We have delivered yet
another year of significant annual 
growth in profits and I am delighted 
by that achievement.
The details of these figures are discussed
elsewhere in this annual report. What 
I would like to concentrate on here is
how we are shaping Mouchel to create
even greater value for shareholders,
clients and staff.
Getting into shape
Last year on 1 August 2001 we
announced a reorganisation. This
underlined our focus on securing 
long-term Managed Services contracts
with key clients in key markets, and
established three business streams
through which we would support those
clients – Managed Services, Project
Services, and Management Consultancy.
This year that reorganisation has had 
a major impact. The clarity of our
approach helped potential clients develop
a clear understanding of how we can
help them in the short, medium and
long-term. It also helped our teams to
identify even more effective and innovative
ways to work with one another. We saw
an extraordinary circulation of ideas,
expertise, skills and relationships within
Mouchel, and this collaborative approach
is serving to strengthen our competitive
advantage. I expect to see even more
dynamic relationships forming between
our people over the next 12 months.
Two fundamentals – long-term, 
high value
There is a simple rationale behind our
strategic focus on winning managed
services contracts: they provide us with
secure, valuable and long-term revenue
streams. Equally, they enable us to do
what we do best. That is, to support
our clients throughout the entire life of
their infrastructure, from strategy and
procurement right through to the
optimisation of ageing assets. This year’s
65% increase in turnover in Managed
Services supports our decision to
concentrate on this area.
Our focus creates a clear pathfinder
role for our Management Consultancy
teams. They engage with clients at a
strategic level – often at board level –
and their work is creating an invaluable
flow of knowledge and relationships into
our core Managed Services business.
Perhaps our greatest management
challenge has been defining the role for
our Project Services business stream.
However, our investment of time and
resources in thinking this through has
been repaid. Project Services continues
to deliver profitable business in its own
right, but is now acting as a well-spring
for future managed services work.
Acquisitions, alliances and 
service innovation
We must always present potential clients
with the best possible set of solutions,
and sometimes that means looking
outside Mouchel for skills and capabilities.
For this reason, we have formalised a
number of strategic alliances this year.
We have also secured some excellent
acquisitions, including rail specialists
Metro Consulting Limited (now Mouchel
Metro Limited) and an education related
project management business Chelstoke.
Our successful IPO will help us to
acquire other companies able to
enhance our proposition.
Internally, we have created an
environment where groups of specialists
can quickly establish a new service
offering. The creation of QLM, our school
training and performance management
service which we established during the
year as part of our education team is
one example.
Operational review
During the year all three of our business
streams have made significant progress
in delivering the Group’s objectives.
Managed Services
In September 2001 we commenced
work on the Highways Agency Area 5
Managing Agent contract (M25 Sphere).
This contributed revenues of £10.3 million
in the year to 31 July 2002.
Managed Services also benefited from
our Kent County Council Property
Services contract, which commenced 
in April 2001. Revenues to the end of
the year totalled £5.2 million. In
December 2001 Kent County Council
awarded us a second contract worth 
£6 million over five years, to provide
estates management services to the
council. This contract contributed
revenues of £0.4 million in the year 
to 31 July 2002.
6 8
Project Services
We secured two Principle Support
Provider contracts with the Ministry of
Defence, one for Scotland and another
for Catterick and Marne, North Yorkshire.
The potential duration of these contracts
is up to seven years and their aggregate
annual value is approximately £1.5 million.
In the rail sector, turnover from Mouchel
Metro amounted to £6.3 million, from the
date of acquisition to year end. Another
major contribution to turnover came
from the provision of specialist design
and project management services for
Railtrack’s (now Network Rail) customer
information systems.
Management Consultancy
During the year, we expanded the
number of service streams within
Management Consultancy, adding
strategic consultancy and education
and learning services to our already
established procurement, change
management, asset management, 
local government and contracts and
disputes services.
We also provided strategic consultancy
services to BG Group and helped
develop strategies to address market
positioning and asset management.
In February 2002 we secured our first
education and learning services contract
with the Department for Education and
Skills (DfES) to help raise standards in
secondary schools in Hull. This contract,
will run potentially for two years, involving
a partnership between the DfES, Hull
City Council, Hull secondary schools
and Mouchel. In addition we have
recently secured a similar contract 
for Nottingham City Council.
Our procurement group continued to
work on the Colchester Garrison contract,
in which we are the lead PFI adviser.
Our change management team continued
its work with the Meteorological Office,
relocating more than 1,100 staff from 
its offices in Bracknell, to new premises
in Exeter. Our results for the year also
reflect our ongoing role with Railtrack 
in the Structures Asset Management
Process (STAMP).
Developing partnerships
I believe we are now in an excellent
position to benefit from the rapid growth
in demand for support services. We 
are in the right shape, with a strong
management team, excellent people
and a unique and increasingly integrated
set of technical, commercial and
financial skills.
However, I think we must remember
one important quality which often gets
overlooked – character. Every day we
work hand in hand with our clients,
supporting them in their key activities. 
It is not enough for us to offer the right
mix of services; we must also make
clients feel we are the right people to
work with them, long-term. That so
many clients chose to work in partnership
with us this year is positive news indeed.
Jim Harding
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s review > Market consolidation increasing value of contracts
> Joint venture establishing strong market position
> Growth in technology solutions to manage traffic
Strategic highways
10
The UK Highways Agency is investing
£21 billion over a ten year period to 2010,
with much of the work required being
outsourced to private sector companies.
We have established a strong position
in this market. Our work as Managing
Agent for Area 5 (M25 Sphere) gives us
sole responsibility for the entire M25 and
its intersections, enabling us to develop
unique experience in managing and
improving a high profile motorway.
In the last 12 months we have used this
experience to strengthen our proposition.
Network management – 
the move to MACs
This market has been made even more
attractive by the Highways Agency’s
evolution towards Managing Agent
Contractor contracts (MACs). The MAC
provider is responsible for designing,
managing and executing or procuring
all maintenance and improvement work
on the network, a role which combines
the previously separated responsibilities
of Managing Agent (MA) and Term
Maintenance Contractor (TMC). The
value of these new and innovative
contracts reflects this, with typical
annual turnover on a MAC contract
varying from £25 million to £50 million.
A strategic alliance
This market consolidation has provided
us with opportunities to gain long-term
managed services contracts. However,
it has also created increased competition,
and the new contracts demand that
suppliers provide a comprehensive set of
services, from long-term strategy to day
to day maintenance.
To meet these demands we have
established a strategic alliance with 
Amey Highways Limited. The strategic
development of this alliance in the spring
of 2001 followed our successful 50:50
joint venture bid for Area 19 (Cumbria),
where we have provided MA services
since 1998.
During the year, the joint venture won
TMC contracts for Areas 1 (South
West), 6 (East Anglia) and 10 (North
West), and a combined MAC contract
for Area 9 (West Midlands). The Area 9
contract is a particularly important
indicator of how Amey’s and Mouchel’s
complementary strengths can combine
to win large contracts.
Further market consolidation 
In line with its planned reorganisation 
of key operational areas, we expect 
the Highways Agency to further reduce
the total number of contracts it awards
and directs. We also anticipate the
introduction of longer term MACs with 
a significant private finance element
(PFMACs). We believe this market will
eventually mature into fewer larger,
long-term MAC or PFMAC contracts.
The joint venture is now well positioned
to compete for and win these extensive,
high value contracts.
Success for specialist services
This involves the planning, design,
operation and maintenance of
communications systems for motorways
and trunk roads. During the year we were
appointed by the Highways Agency to
two long-term technology framework
contracts incorporating consultancy
services for the introduction of enhanced
technology to the network. In January
2002, the Highways Agency re-appointed
Mouchel as managing consultant for
the management of their telematics
infrastructure for the East Midlands 
and South East of England.
In March 2002 the Agency also appointed
us as managing consultant for the first
Active Traffic Management system in the
UK. This will utilise a combination of
control devices and traffic management
measures, including the use of the hard
shoulder in specific circumstances, to
reduce congestion on the M42. We
believe the successful implementation
of this scheme will be fundamental to
the future development of technology led
solutions to infrastructure capacity issues
in the highways sector.
Finally, in the early part of the year we
secured a five year framework contract 
with the Highways Agency for the
planning and design of new and
improved highway infrastructure 
for the North of England. Local highways
‘The Ten Year Plan’ for transport will
have delivered £19.3 billion of public
capital funding and £9 billion of private
investment for local transport initiatives
by 2010. In 2001/2002, approximately
70 per cent of the £4.6 billion expenditure
on local authority transport infrastructure
was spent by the 34 County Councils
and 36 Metropolitan Councils. These
organisations are the focus of our
strategy in this sector. 
Meeting demand from councils
At year end we held long-term partnership
contracts with Hertfordshire, North
Yorkshire and Essex County Councils
for the management of their roads 
and associated services. We also held
partnership contracts for the supply 
of highway support to Suffolk County
Council, Medway Council and Rotherham
Metropolitan Borough Council.
We see excellent potential for growth 
in this area, with an increasing number 
of local authorities seeking to outsource
some or all of the transport services they
currently carry out in-house. A number
of existing contracts between competitors
and local authorities are also due for 
re-bidding, and we have identified
opportunities for potential gains.
Of course, re-bidding can also be a cause
for concern, as we have to compete 
to keep valued clients. However, our
successful re-bid for the Hertfordshire
County Council contract – announced
this year – underlines our strengths 
in this market.
Local transport expertise
Our work in Hertfordshire also illustrates
the breadth and depth of our expertise.
This now includes: network management,
including the implementation of
maintenance, improvement and safety
work; sustainable transport, initiating
the use of traffic calming, green routes
for buses and cycling facilities; specialist
services, such as surveying, lighting,
traffic control and structural strengthening.
The five year Hertfordshire County
Council contract was our first managed
services contract. In 1998 it was worth
£5.1 million per annum and employed
135 staff. By 2001 it had increased to
£9 million per annum and involved 220
staff – an example of how we can grow
the value of our client relationships.
Since 31 July 2002 we have secured
new partnership contracts for highways
support with Wakefield and Doncaster
Metropolitan Borough Councils.
‘Maintain, Finance and Operate’ arrives
Portsmouth City Council, Birmingham
City Council and Lincolnshire County
Council have been amongst the first
local authorities to assess the benefits 
of a new type of local highways contract
– a 25 year ‘Maintain, Finance and
Operate’ PFI. Portsmouth is adopting
this approach, and has developed a
contract that includes responsibility 
for 450 km of roads, 70 bridges and
structures and 16,000 street lights. 
The Birmingham contract, which is in
development, is estimated to have a
total value in excess of £1 billion.
Many other local authorities are likely to
follow the path set by these pioneering
organisations. We are positioning
ourselves to benefit from this significant
market development.
Strategic advice
During the year we have worked at
senior level with Essex County Council
in carrying out a Best Value Review 
of their planning and transportation
services and assisting them in the
development of their relationships 
within the district councils.
13
> Significant move towards long-term partnership contracts
> Hertfordshire work demonstrates expertise and opportunity
> Opportunities developing in local highways PFI
