 Mouchel and Parkman announced an intention to join forces
on 21 August 2003. We have achieved pretty much everything
we set out to do in our first year. We completed our integration
programme on time; met our financial objectives; and created
a new and dynamic force in the market.
Everyone here has played their part in getting us to where we
are. I thank them on behalf of the Board, not just for their hard
work but also for their belief. We have tried hard to create a
culture and working environment in which everyone can flourish
and realise their ambitions. We think we are well on the way.
So does the independent assessor from Investors in People
(IiP) who visited us in July – she interviewed people throughout
the organisation and found that the “level of excitement is
almost tangible”.
The process of putting two fast growing and successful
businesses together has been exciting and rewarding. Our
integration programme, Project One, comprised 16 separate
sub-projects. These included the ‘hard’ – new systems and
processes – and the ‘soft’ – issues that would influence the
way we do things in Mouchel Parkman. We also identified
four critical areas of risk facing us in 2003/4. These, and 
our responses to them, are central to an understanding 
of our performance.
1. We needed to keep the business moving forward, in spite
of our internal challenges
The demands of the merger could have distracted us from
the fundamentals, particularly developing client relationships
and winning new business. We were aware of the need to
keep looking outward, rather than focusing too much on
internal issues. As a result, we have kept the top line moving,
we have grown the order book and we have increased what
was already a very healthy pipeline of new opportunities.
We secured new commissions in the year, in both our core
and incubator sectors. These included:
• Two social housing management contracts, each for seven
years, for the London Borough of Hackney
• Commissions for the DfES to project manage the feasibility
of three new City Academies
• An eight year contract supporting Alcatel in replacing the
signalling for the Jubilee and Northern Lines for the Tube
Lines consortium
• Four managed services contracts in the water industry, some
for up to ten years, to provide operational management
services to Thames Water, Southern Water, Scottish Water
and Severn Trent Water
• The first contract let by the Highways Agency to recruit 
and train its Traffic Officers
• Six long-term highways contracts in partnership with
Cornwall County Council, the Corporation of London, the
London Boroughs of Bexley and Richmond-upon-Thames,
Leeds City Council and the City of Westminster. The last of
these is a local authority Managing Agent Contractor-style
(MAC-style) contract which we secured in joint venture with
Balfour Beatty – the first of what we believe will be a trend
in this type of procurement.
Our existing clients have also reaffirmed their satisfaction,
enabling us to maintain a 100% record in securing managed
service contract extensions. Extensions in the year included:
• Ealing and Wiltshire highways
• Wiltshire and Bedfordshire property
• North Yorkshire ‘bundled’ services
2. We needed to keep staff on board
Anxiety amongst staff is inevitable during major change. 
We opted to address reorganisation and redundancy issues
quickly to minimise uncertainty. We also communicated openly
about our plans. In the end, relatively few full-time posts were
redundant as a result of the merger. And of course we
continue to welcome new staff to the Group through
recruitment and transfer.
The vast majority of our people have shown great support for
the new company, confirming our expectation that the cultures
of Mouchel and Parkman would combine well in a new group.
Chief Executive’s statement
Successfully integrate two companies, deliver significant growth
and improve profitability. That was the expectation in 2003/4.
Richard Cuthbert, Chief Executive, outlines our progress in the
year and assesses our prospects.
Mouchel Parkman Report and Accounts 2004 6 Chief Executive’s statement
3. We needed to establish an effective and co-ordinated
programme of integration for our support systems
Some of the activities within Project One were focused 
on the transformation of business critical processes and
infrastructure. We completed all of these on time and to
budget, so that by the end of our first year, and in some
cases by April 2004, we had in place:
• A single IT platform and technical support team, organisation
and management
• A company-wide finance system
• A set of technical and project management procedures
across quality management, environmental management
and health and safety
• New employment terms and conditions and a new
performance management and appraisal system for 
all employees.
4. We needed to ensure a successful transition for recent
acquisitions and major contract wins
A number of important new contracts and several acquisitions
were secured in the run up to the merger. These had to perform
in line with expectations in their first year, in circumstances that
had not previously been anticipated. As a result of the care
we devoted to this issue, GEL, Atkins Odlin and LDA all
performed well this year.
Our joint venture with Liverpool City Council, 2020 Liverpool
Limited, started on 1 October 2003 and has performed
exceptionally well. We have already developed an identity in
the city, enabling us to attract fresh talent to help us satisfy the
demand for infrastructure improvement works in Liverpool in
the run up to its European Capital of Culture status in 2008.
Finally, our most recent MAC contract with the Highways
Agency, in Cumbria and North Lancashire (Area 13), had 
a very good first year and is another success for the
AmeyMouchel joint venture.
The next phase – core market sectors
Highways
As AmeyMouchel, we are arguably the Highways Agency’s
leading provider of maintenance management services. On the
capital works side, we are already involved in two of the new
Early Contractor Involvement (ECI) schemes and more may
follow. There is also the prospect of major motorway widening
projects. Our leadership of the Active Traffic Management project
on the M42 in the West Midlands is giving us excellent
experience in the application of technology to increase
highway capacity.
We confirmed our pre-eminent position with local authorities
during 2003/4. Our strategic alliances with Hertfordshire and
Wiltshire County Councils went from strength to strength. Our
track record and long list of reference sites puts us in a strong
position for future opportunities. These include second and
even third generation outsourcing contracts in the shire counties,
along with first generation contracts in London and the
metropolitan areas. The signs are that at least some of these
contracts will offer highways as part of a large bundle of
outsourced services. Some could be MAC-style contracts.
Property
We are now market leader in the local authority sector and
expect further growth. Our teams have brought a noticeable
improvement to customer service delivery in both Surrey and
Hertfordshire in the first 12 months of those contracts. The
Building Schools for the Future (BSfF) initiative promises to
dramatically increase investment in secondary school
infrastructure, and we are exploring opportunities to develop
local education partnerships with LEAs in joint venture with
other providers. Our continuing success in the Academies
procurement and project management programme is adding
to our credibility for BSfF.
Rail
We have a good, balanced portfolio of work, with long-term
structures inspection and assessment contracts with Network
Rail and long-term signalling work for London Underground.
We are well positioned for further expansion but, in spite of
the massive spend in the sector, this market remains uncertain,
and we wait to see how Network Rail’s developing plans will
affect us long-term. 
Water
We had a tremendous year, securing valuable long-term asset
management contracts with some of the major water companies
and increasing turnover by over 30%. The outsourcing trend
looks set to continue and opportunities to undertake capital
scheme design work will increase as we formally enter the
new asset management cycle – Asset Management Plan 4
(AMP4). We will increase our scale and market share through
acquisition should the right opportunity present itself.
Incubator market sectors
Our incubator sectors currently represent about 10% of our
turnover. Our objective is for at least one incubator to become
a core market sector. Our approach is to establish a profitable
consultancy business as a forerunner to developing managed
services contracts. We have achieved this in all four sectors now.
Mouchel Parkman Report and Accounts 2004 7 Chief Executive’s statement
Mouchel Parkman Report and Accounts 2004 8
Our team of management consultants provides advice on
infrastructure projects and services across all of our markets,
together with thought leadership. This helps us to set the
agenda for our clients and identify new opportunities for the
Group. The team has again been successful, working primarily
in our incubator sectors.
Gas
National Grid Transco (NGT) is leading the further transformation
and restructuring of the UK gas industry. Through GEL, we
have been able to play a part in this process, supporting
Macquarie Bank in its successful bid for the Wales and West
regional gas distribution network. We expect more opportunities
to flow from this process both before and after the formal
transfer of assets to the new private sector owners next April.
Alongside this, NGT’s pipeline replacement programme will
continue to offer good prospects for us as one of very few
providers in this market. In the year, GEL won contracts in
Norfolk, South Wales and Scotland.
Waste
The fundamental change that the EU Landfill Directive is bringing
to local authority practice means that consultancy opportunities
will remain in this sector. We advised several local authorities
on waste strategy and continued our work for Shanks on new
waste transfer sites in East London. Whilst 2003/4 was a
successful year for our consultancy team, we have not yet been
able to enter the market for managed services in this sector.
Education
The recent Green Paper from the Department for Education
and Skills – ‘Every Child Matters’ – sets out a bold agenda 
for children’s services and recognises that poor educational
performance is often due to poor management and
communication, not poor teaching. We improve the
management of people, projects and assets, so this gives 
us a valuable role in helping to raise standards, as our work
as advisors and interim managers demonstrated this year.
This is an evolving market which, together with the BSfF
programme, indicates that our investment in this sector over 
the last two to three years is likely to bear fruit, as our success
in the Academies programme has indicated. Improving the
management and capacity of LEAs and the promotion of joined
up services supporting urban regeneration, are the most likely
routes for effective public private partnership in this sector.
Housing
Interim manager roles are also a prospect in social housing.
We were delighted with our wins in Hackney and we’ve made
an encouraging start to the contracts. We have excellent
people out there delivering front-line services to the community;
and we are already making a difference. Together with our
successful contract with Westminster, we now have an
established business. This market is still not developing at 
the pace we had anticipated however and we are working 
on alternative service models which might be attractive to
local authorities and residents.
Developing our people
At the end of July 2004 we employed 4,250 people. Recent
joiners included a range of senior management – a new
Company Secretary, HR director and a new business
development director in government services. This autumn
we recruited nearly 100 graduates. The training and continuing
professional development for all of our people is now channelled
through ‘MP Learning’. Staff communications are facilitated
by our intranet ‘MPortal’, our quarterly magazine ‘MPrint’, a
monthly newsletter ‘MP Monthly’ and a regular series of
presentations by the executive team in all offices.
As the Group grows, the sharing of best practice is ever more
important. Our ability to quickly and effectively integrate people
joining us through acquisition or under the Transfer of
Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations (1981)
as amended (TUPE) is also crucial to our continuing success.
With this in mind we have appointed a business transformation
director, whose role is also to champion continuous
improvement across the Group. We introduced the European
Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM) version of
Business Excellence during the year. That has established a
structured approach to self assessment – an essential first step
along the road to service improvement.
Outlook
It has been a privilege to lead Mouchel Parkman in its first
year. Our market prospects and overall business outlook 
are good and we are confident that we can now achieve
more than either Mouchel or Parkman could have achieved
alone. We have the right people, the right approach and a
tremendous opportunity to fulfil our aspiration to become the
leading provider of consultancy and support services in our
chosen markets. We have made an excellent start.
Richard Cuthbert
Chief Executive 
