 Chairman’s statement
Underlying operating profit was £28. 1m  
for the year to 30 September 2013,  
with key performance metrics comparing 
favourably with those of peer group 
competitors. In the equivalent period before 
the restructuring, the business made  
an operating loss on a pro forma basis.
The Group’s net debt at the year-end was 
£45.5m, representing a ratio of net debt  
at 1.2 times EBITDA. This was after funding 
the strategic acquisition of the remaining 
50% of EnterpriseMouchel using new bank 
debt and cash. This additional facility was 
repaid in full before the year-end, ahead 
of the planned maturity date. Net debt is 
expected to show a further reduction in the 
current year as a result of continuing strong 
cash generation.
This performance could not have 
been achieved without the dedication, 
commitment and experience of Mouchel’s 
more than 6,500 people led by Grant 
Rumbles and his leadership team. On behalf 
of the Board I would like to thank each of 
them for the contributions they have made 
and are making to the success of the Group.
As Mouchel celebrates 125 years in 
business I am delighted to report that 
the Group has achieved an excellent 
financial performance ahead of Board 
expectations and represents a year  
of significant progress for the business. 
Performance in respect of revenue, 
profit, cash generation and order  
book demonstrates that Mouchel  
is delivering on its core strategic 
objectives and, following the  
completion of the restructuring  
in the first half of the year, is on  
a strong growth trajectory.
Board of Directors 
Paul Rayner joined the Board as Group 
Finance Director in January 2013, replacing 
Rod Harris, who had performed the role 
during the refinancing. I would like to thank 
Rod for his support throughout that time  
and wish him well for the future.
At the same time Ian Duncan joined as 
a Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee and in May, Mike 
Jeffries joined as a Non-Executive Director 
to Chair the Remuneration Committee. 
These appointments as independent 
Directors enhance the Board and reflect a 
commitment to strong effective corporate 
governance. Clients and other stakeholders 
expect this and it is embedded firmly in the 
Mouchel culture.
Outlook
Mouchel has been transformed in the last 
two years. The Group’s simplified operating 
structure is now directly aligned to meet 
clients’ needs as they seek cost-effective 
and innovative solutions to deliver their 
strategies in the face of continued pressure 
on budgets. Mouchel’s recognised ability  
to work in partnership enables them  
to achieve their objectives.
The results of the operational and financial 
restructuring have established Mouchel as 
a profitable, soundly financed and dynamic 
business with ambitious growth plans. 
The Board looks ahead to the future with 
renewed confidence and by continuing  
to meet our clients’ needs, we are  
delivering on our objective of creating  
value for stakeholders.
David JB Shearer
Chairman
1 1 December 2013
THE GROUP HAS ACHIEVED 
AN EXCELLENT FINANCIAL 
PERFORMANCE AHEAD OF 
BOARD EXPECTATIONS AND 
REPRESENTING A YEAR OF 
SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS FOR 
THE BUSINESS.
Mouchel Annual Report and Accounts 2013 4 
Overview
