 Chairman’s statement
Performance 
The first year for Mouchel Parkman has been very successful.
We have produced excellent results – operating profit* up 
by 47%, turnover up by 22% and a forward order book of
£850 million at the end of July.
We are really pleased with these results, especially as they have
been achieved during a year when two sets of people, systems
and resources became one. But perhaps more important is
the strong platform that we have now created for the future.
Our corporate planning process has identified ambitious
financial objectives for the Group. These are nevertheless
realistic, grounded in a sure sense of what Mouchel Parkman
can achieve, in light of the opportunities that exist in our
markets and the strong demand that continues to exist 
for our services.
Market consolidation 
Looking at the dynamics in our markets, consolidation continues
with a number of our competitors joining forces since our merger
in an attempt to provide more scale on the supply-side. On
the client-side, more organisations are placing larger contracts
with fewer providers for longer periods of time. The Highways
Agency (HA) has taken this path for some time; local authorities
and some water companies are now following suit, supporting
the principal rationale for our merger.
It’s great news that we have won some large contracts this
year, and can see opportunities to win many more. Forming
the right relationships with contractors and partners is
important for our future; the merger has given us the mass
and credibility to be able to align with the very best players.
The Board and senior management
Looking inside the Company, we have an excellent management
team in place under the leadership of Richard Cuthbert and
Kevin Young. The successful merger integration and the
Company’s performance this year underline how good our 
top people are.
* Before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation
During the year Jim Harding stood down, after 24 years service
with Mouchel, as did Richard Archer who was forced to resign
through ill-health. It is with great sadness that we report that
Richard subsequently passed away on 27 August 2004 after
a long battle against cancer. Richard was the driving force
behind the recent rise of Parkman, and his energy, personality
and advice are greatly missed. Jim was at the helm during
Mouchel’s transition from a traditional consultancy to a support
services provider and we wish him well in his new ventures.
Good corporate governance is a priority for us. Although we
have the right procedures in place to protect the interests of
our stakeholders, we constantly review and update these to
ensure best practice as the Group develops and expands.
This may include further strengthening of our Board in the
coming year.
Richard Preece stood down on 18 October 2004 as Company
Secretary after 16 years’ outstanding service to Parkman 
and through the first year of the combined Group. We are
delighted that his replacement is Amanda Massie, who joined
us from Atkins.
Looking ahead
After a very exciting and successful 12 months for the Group, 
I’m now looking forward to what comes next. Of course, there
are challenges ahead. But the progress we have made this
year confirms to me that this is a robust company, with strong
leadership, excellent people and many opportunities to grow
and develop. We’ve set ourselves ambitious targets and 
I have every confidence that we can achieve them.
Richard Benton
Chairman
Mouchel Parkman’s first year has been tremendously exciting. 
A huge amount was achieved and there has been significant
change in most of our markets. Richard Benton, Chairman,
assesses our performance and the opportunities that lie ahead.
Mouchel Parkman Report and Accounts 2004 5
