 Chief Executive strategic review
THIS IS AN EXCITING 
TIME FOR MOUCHEL. 
WE HAVE CREATED A 
STRONG PLATFORM 
TO PROVIDE FURTHER 
VALUE TO OUR CLIENTS 
AND GROW OUR 
BUSINESS IN AREAS 
WHERE WE ALREADY 
HOLD LEADING 
POSITIONS. 
Mouchel Annual Report and Accounts 2013 12 
Business review This has been a very successful year  
for Mouchel. After celebrating 125 years 
of operations, we ended 2013 with profits 
ahead of the Board’s expectations, an 
underlying EBITDA of £37.0m and strong 
underlying cash generation of £39.3m. 
Our order book at the year-end was 
£1.7bn and, since then, we have secured 
an additional £300m of new contracts 
in the UK, Australia and the Middle 
East. Our pipeline, which consists of 
opportunities where the bidding process 
has commenced, at year-end was a healthy 
£2.4bn together with a further £5bn of real 
opportunities at lead or prospect stage. 
During the year, we also won our largest ever 
contract – one of the first new roads network 
Asset Support Contracts with the Highways 
Agency, worth up to £700m. 
We are proud of our performance, 
particularly as it was achieved against the 
backdrop of a difficult economic climate and 
the UK government’s austerity programme.
It is, however, only the beginning.
Grant Rumbles
Chief Executive
Business review
Mouchel Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 Chief Executive strategic review continued
The marketplace
Mouchel is an international infrastructure  
and business services group that helps  
to transform essential public services.  
We provide advisory, design, project 
delivery and managed services associated 
with infrastructure and business services, 
working in the highways and transportation, 
local government, property, emergency 
services, health, education and utilities 
markets across the world. 
While the vast majority of our operations 
serve the public sector we do also provide 
services to the private sector, particularly  
in our water and property divisions. 
In many of our markets, our clients’ budgets 
are under continuing pressure. They are, 
therefore, looking for greater efficiency,  
more innovative solutions and better value 
for money overall from private sector 
suppliers, such as Mouchel, to meet 
their needs. Hence, there are many new 
opportunities in our markets and, as our 
record order book and pipeline show,  
this number is growing. 
There are also deep-lying demographic 
reasons to expect continuing growth  
in our markets. According to the United 
Nations, the global population is expected  
to increase from 7 .2bn today to 9.6bn by 
2050. As a result, the demand for two of  
our main areas of infrastructure expertise, 
design and asset management of roads  
and water, will certainly increase. 
THERE ARE MANY NEW 
OPPORTUNITIES IN OUR 
MARKETS AND, AS OUR 
RECORD ORDER BOOK  
AND PIPELINE SHOW, THIS 
NUMBER IS GROWING.
£300m
Since year-end we have secured an  
additional £300m of contracts in the  
UK, Australia and the Middle East.
£700m
During the years we won our largest ever  
contract – worth up to £700m – within the  
Highways Agency.
circa
Mouchel Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 
Business review MOUCHEL ’S GROWTH 
OPPORTUNITIES... ARE BY 
NO MEANS LIMITED BY THE 
MARKETS IN WHICH WE 
CURRENTL Y OPERATE.
Mouchel’s growth opportunities, however, 
are by no means limited by the markets in 
which we currently operate. At a corporate 
level, our skills are transferable to other 
sectors and geographies.
Our main challenge is ensuring that we 
recruit, retain and develop the right people 
with the right skills. Over the past year we 
have placed a particular focus on how we 
develop our employees and in the coming 
year we will be seeking to recruit some 600 
additional engineers into our Infrastructure 
Services business. 
Infrastructure Services
Roads
As one of the UK’s leading providers  
of road design, maintenance, management 
and operations, we are pleased by the 
UK government’s recent pledge to inject 
significant investment into the country’s  
road infrastructure. 
The Department for Transport’s Action for 
Roads paper, published in July, outlined the 
future of road investment in England and 
Wales. In it, the Secretary of State described 
the report’s proposals as ‘the most radical 
change to the management of our highways 
in nearly half a century and the biggest 
investment in improvements since the 70s’. 
The investment, which will be guaranteed by 
legislation, includes more than £15bn in the 
strategic road network by 2021 and more 
than £12bn on maintenance.
The Scottish government is also investing 
heavily in new roads. This year our TranServ 
joint venture won a £125m, five-year contract 
for the management and maintenance of 
the south west region of the Scottish Trunk 
Roads network for Transport Scotland. 
TranServ is also currently bidding for the 
roads asset maintenance contracts for 
both north east and south east Scotland, 
which at the time of publication is expected 
to be announced in December 2013. In a 
separate joint venture, Mouchel has also pre-
qualified this year to design the new dual A9 
carriageway from Perth to Inverness which 
we expect to be announced in early 2014. 
In February, we acquired the remaining 
50 percent of our highways management 
and maintenance joint venture, 
EnterpriseMouchel, which we have 
rebranded EM Highway Services Ltd (EM). 
The business has an annual turnover in 
excess of £200m and the acquisition gives 
us increased stability, value and opportunity 
in this growing market. This is a strategically 
significant step, establishing Mouchel as one 
of the very few companies offering a fully 
integrated, end-to-end highways service. 
In Australia, through DownerMouchel 
(DM), we operate a successful joint venture 
partnership with Downer EDI. DM provides 
asset management solutions similar to 
those services we provide through EM in the 
UK. We have successfully operated three 
Integrated Service Arrangements in Western 
Australia since 201 1 and we recently 
broke into the Eastern Australian market, 
winning two new roads asset maintenance 
contracts, one in Queensland and one 
in Sydney, jointly valued at AUD$835m. 
The Sydney contract is a first generation 
outsourcing contract where we expect  
to add significant value for our client. 
We are also pursuing further growth 
opportunities in both Australia and  
New Zealand.
In the Middle East, where we have  
been operating for over 30 years,  
we see significant growth opportunities  
in the United Arab Emirates, the Kingdom  
of Saudi Arabia and in Kuwait for the design 
of new infrastructure and for long-term  
asset management. 
Historically, the Mouchel Middle East 
business operated as a separate unit.  
Over the course of the year it has been fully 
integrated within the Infrastructure Services 
business to maximise the capabilities and 
strengths of both our overseas and UK 
expertise. We are now seeing the benefits  
of this. We are currently preferred bidder  
for some £30m of new project work.
Health and safety
The health and safety of our employees 
and supply chain is a top priority. During 
the year we have continued to embed 
a positive safety culture throughout our 
organisation, focusing on eliminating the 
potential for serious injury and ill health, 
while minimising the hazards our people 
face in the delivery of our services. 
This is reflected in our performance  
for the year, with our accident frequency 
rate falling by over 20%, and our overall 
approach to occupational safety gaining 
recognition – for a seventh consecutive 
year – with a Gold Award from the Royal 
Society for the Prevention of Accidents 
(RoSPA).
In 2014 we will introduce a new  
safety excellence strategy, ensuring  
that all of our employees have the 
right tools, knowledge, and leadership 
support to enable us to achieve a truly 
‘zero harm’ culture.
Business review
Mouchel Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15 Group
Our vision
To be recognised for excellence
Governance Risk
CR
p46 p44 p54
Our values
Integrity
Innovation Responsibility Excellence p6 p8 p10
Underpinned by
Infrastructure Services Mouchel Business Services p18 p30
600
engineers
In the coming year we will be 
seeking to recruit some 600 
additional engineers into our 
Infrastructure Services business.
Chief Executive strategic review continued
Business model
Water
In the UK we serve all 12 of the major  
water companies in England and Wales.  
The current AMP 5 procurement cycle 
finishes in early 2015 and we are actively 
preparing and bidding for the vast range 
of framework contracts. We have a strong 
track record of retention; for example, we 
have already secured an extension of our 
modelling framework with Severn Trent 
Water and we have also won a new  
contract with Affinity Water.
We are further leveraging our water 
consulting knowledge and skills to take 
advantage of the many opportunities that  
are available in the Middle East.
Mouchel Business Services
The cumulative impact of the government’s 
Comprehensive Spending Review, has 
been detrimental to local authorities in the 
UK. Clients require innovative solutions that 
enable them to maintain service provision 
but with ever greater levels of value for 
money. Mouchel Business Services is  
well placed to assist our clients to achieve 
both outcomes. 
Our Business Services division is one of the 
largest providers of outsourced professional 
and support services to local and central 
government bodies in the UK. We process 
payslips for more than 1,000,000 people 
each year, provide pension services for 10 
police forces and deliver large, multi-service 
contracts for several local authorities across 
England. We also provide a range  
of property services.
While there continues to be demand 
for private sector support, this market is 
challenging and significant growth in this 
space is unlikely in the foreseeable future. 
That said, Mouchel remains profitable. We 
have continued to innovate and win work, 
notably our three-year extension to our joint 
venture with Oldham Council in June 2013. 
Our strategy and business model 
Our vision is to be recognised for excellence 
and this is underpinned by a set of values 
– innovation, responsibility, excellence and 
integrity – that drives our actions on a daily 
basis. Our successful financial performance 
over the past year has been achieved by 
ensuring that we adhere to and apply those 
values, that we have the right people in the 
right roles and that we have a market-facing 
organisational structure, supported by 
strong governance. 
At the heart of the Mouchel business 
model is the devolution of responsibility and 
accountability from the centre to the lowest 
appropriate level. The objective is to enable 
Mouchel Annual Report and Accounts 2013 16 
Business review Strategy
Strategic objectives
Clients
Continue to build great relationships by 
delivering collaborative thought leadership 
and excellent service
Retain and recruit ‘best in class’ and assist 
them to excel
Focus on core strengths 
Enhance our capabilities 
Maintain and grow in markets where Mouchel is leading  
Expand our market coverage
Deliver One Mouchel excellence to our 
clients across the world
People
Growth
Operations
decisions to be made quickly and as close 
to the ground as possible. This allows our 
people to be responsive to our clients.
Each of our operating divisions has its own 
management team with clearly delegated 
authority which provides the governance 
for the majority of day-to-day corporate 
decisions. Any matters that fall outside 
of those authorities are reviewed by the 
Mouchel Investment Committee, which 
meets weekly and is chaired by the  
Chief Executive.
The Mouchel Executive Management Team 
(EMT) comprises the Chief Executive, Group 
Finance Director, Group Human Resources 
Director and the divisional Managing 
Directors. The EMT meets monthly and 
reviews business performance versus 
strategy. The agenda includes: Health, 
Safety, Environment and Quality results; 
financial results; performance against KPIs; 
and succession planning for the Leadership 
Team of our top 70 people.
The degree of empowerment that we 
practice within Mouchel is quite different to 
that employed by many of our competitors. 
We view our model as a strong competitive 
advantage, which provides responsive 
decision making supported by strong, 
appropriate and capable governance.
Strategy
Our four-pronged strategy, produced in 
March 2012, was designed to stabilise the 
business and to achieve sustained and 
sustainable profitability. It was also designed 
to establish the best way of running the 
business rather than simply cutting costs. 
It required us to simplify the organisational 
structure, to increase operational focus at 
divisional level; maintain and grow in markets 
where Mouchel is leading; focus on our 
core strengths; reduce overhead costs to 
deliver the right cost base for the Company; 
and increase the focus on our contracts to 
improve profitability and win additional work.
Over the past year we have simplified our 
organisational structure, moving to two 
divisions which has allowed us to focus  
on the markets where we are leading,  
and on doing what we do best. 
We have also removed some £21m  
of overheads, (compared to when the 
business was quoted), in large part by 
rationalising our property portfolio. Both the 
reorganisation and overhead cost reductions 
were completed by March 2013. 
Going forward, we have adjusted our 
strategy, which allows us to further focus  
on the sectors where Mouchel has  
a leading position.
Outlook
This is an exciting time for Mouchel.  
We have created a strong platform  
to provide further value to our clients and 
grow our business in areas where we 
already hold leading positions. 
The infrastructure services market,  
in particular, provides ample opportunities 
for us to deliver sustainable growth and 
improved profitability with associated 
shareholder value. We have very capable 
leadership at every level in the organisation 
and we also have over 6,500 highly skilled 
people who deliver innovative solutions  
on a daily basis. 
We will manage our growth carefully  
and ensure that we recruit and promote 
people who match our culture and values. 
Mouchel is in a process of positive 
transformation. So after 125 years  
of forward thinking, we are just  
getting started.
Grant Rumbles
Chief Executive
Sustainable  
growth and  
profitability
Business review
Mouchel Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17
