 I am pleased to report that during the year
we continued to make headway in line with
the Group’s operational and strategic
objectives. The business has been stabilised
and the Group returned to profitability. 
In the last 12 months, the Group’s core business
of Technology recruitment continued to evolve
to meet market demands while we continued to
research and open new recruitment sectors.
During the year we made our first acquisition to
further strengthen the Technology recruitment
division. In addition this division gained
recognition as a provider in the managed
service marketplace following the contract win
at Unisys.
Market Overview
Activity levels and market confidence in general
remained low, as reported at the half-year. In the
second half of the year, demand slowly
increased, however, pressure continued to be
exercised on contractor chargeable rates but
overall gross margins remained above 15%.
Technology Recruitment
The re-engineering of the sales model to adapt
to market conditions was concluded in the early
part of the year, which resulted in the Group
being better placed to build long term client
relationships. The division is broadly divided into
two recruitment sectors: contingency and
managed, the latter where there are formal
preferred supplier arrangements (PSLs) in place.
The contingency market, in particular, was
impacted by economic pressures and demand
in the earlier part of the year was low, but gross
margins were broadly held at prior year levels.
We were able to grow PSL turnover during the
year by 8%, resulting in a planned change of
business mix within the Technology division.
By the year end total contractor numbers had
grown by 32% and closed at a level not
experienced since May 2002. In November
2003, we acquired the business of Leading
Edge Recruitment which strengthened this
division and provided us with a platform for
entry into a number of important new clients. 
The Group expanded its domestic presence
with the opening of an office in Windsor and the
re-opening of the Glasgow office providing once
again a local, regionally-focused service to our
customers based in Scotland.
In addition to adapting the Group’s sales model
to deal with increased PSL business, we have
concentrated on maintaining overall gross
margins by revitalising the permanent
recruitment offering. Fourth quarter permanent
recruitment revenues grew 19% compared to
the same period last year. A stand alone
permanent technology recruitment search and
selection division has also been established to
provide bespoke recruitment solutions at 
senior levels.
The signing of a two year contract with a major
client, Unisys, represented an important
milestone for the Group. Our performance in
client relationship management and prompt
resource delivery created the opportunity for us
to formalise our relationship with Unisys which
has been a client for several years. We believe
that this win confirms that we have a
comprehensive integrated recruitment solutions
package to match the best.
Diversification
Our expansion into a wider range of recruitment
sectors continues to build resilience to the IT
economic cycle and enhances our overall
recruitment services. 
At the start of the year there were two non IT
divisions: MSB Finance and MSB Sales &
Marketing, which were launched late in 2002.
Both these divisions performed in line with
original estimates. During the year, the sector
range was further expanded to include MSB
Human Resources, MSB Engineering and
recently MSB Supply Chain Management
divisions. All are well positioned to grow
organically with the recruitment of additional
experienced personnel.
Other Products and Services
To complement our recruitment services, we
continued to provide a range of products and
related offerings including an Internet-based
recruitment management system “Vacancy
Manager”, AudIT (review of clients’ temporary
and permanent resource procurement) and HR
Express (outsourcing). These services and
products are specifically designed to address
clients’ integrated recruitment services needs
over and above the provision of staff and
differentiate MSB in the marketplace.
Management Structure
To reflect the growth in the Technology Division
and also the expansion into other recruitment
sectors, careful consideration has been given to
ensure the appropriate management structure
and organisation are in place. The Group will be
restructuring to have separate management for
the Technology and non-Technology divisions.
Sales & Marketing, Finance and other
administration will take on and provide group-
wide support roles.
Future Business Development
MSB has developed a better and more
balanced business through providing a broader
spread of recruitment sectors and services and
offers our clients a ‘one-stop shop’. In the
coming year, we will continue to expand the
business organically. At the same time
consideration will be given to further new
recruitment sector investment as well as
reviewing suitable acquisition opportunities.
Andrew M Zielinski
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Review 
Operating
06/07 The MSB Finance division recruits key personnel into the Banking & Financial
Services and Industry & Commerce sectors. Our consultants, with extensive
experience in these markets, deliver the highest levels of service to both 
clients and candidates.
Finance Turnover (£ millions)
00 01 02 03 04
184.9 157.8 146.0 84.1 67.3
Profit before tax 
(£ millions) * As restated
00 01 02 03* 04
5.0 2.6 1.9 0.0 0.3
With the increasing focus on reducing costs and releasing value from the supply
chain, demand for high calibre professionals for the supply chain, purchasing and
logistics sectors, has never been greater. We offer a consultative approach,
resourcing candidates at all levels of seniority.
Supply Chain Management Operating Results
Turnover from existing operations for the year
was £66.1 million against £84.1 million last year.
Turnover from the acquired Leading Edge
business was £1.2 million. The profit before tax
was £311,000 (2003: £1,000 as restated).
The Group generated a gross profit of £10.2
million (2003: £12.8 million) with gross margins
of 15.1% being achieved (2003: 15.2%).
Earnings per Share
The basic and diluted earnings per share were
0.76p, compared to a 0.16p loss (as restated) in
the previous year. The total number of shares in
issue at 31 January 2004 and throughout the
year was 20,501,979. 
The earnings per share computation excludes
985,000 shares, the average number of shares
held and not vested by the Group’s Employee
Benefit Trust during the year.
Taxation
The taxation charge is £162,000 on profit on
ordinary activities of £311,000. This represents
an effective rate of 52.1% and the reasons for
the departure from the standard corporation tax
rate of 30% are detailed in note 8, page 31.
Prior Year Adjustment
The Group has adopted UITF Abstract 38
“Accounting for ESOP Trusts” early. The UITF
requires that no gains or losses should be
recognised in the profit and loss account on the
purchase, sale or cancellation of an entity’s own
shares. It also requires that “investment in own
shares” be deducted from shareholders’ funds
rather then being held as an asset. 
As a consequence the prior year exceptional
charge of £422,000 relating to the write down of
the investment has been reversed. Prior year net
assets have been reduced by £497,000, being
the net effect of the reversal of the £422,000
exceptional charge and the transfer of the
resulting cost of investment of £919,000 to
shareholders’ funds.
Acquisition
On 17 November 2003 the Group acquired the
business of Leading Edge Recruitment for
£478,000 including acquisition costs. Funding of
the investment was from internal cash reserves.
Further details are set out in note 11, page 32.
Capital Structure
The Group is financed entirely from shareholders’
funds of £13.6 million. Cash at bank and in
hand was £3.3 million at 31 January 2004.
Cash Flow
Cash outflow from operating activities was £1.7
million (2003: £11.0 million inflow). The
acquisition of the Leading Edge business
resulted in a £0.5 million cash outflow, capital
expenditure was £0.1 million (2003: £0.1 million),
dividends paid totalled £0.4 million (2003: £0.4
million) and taxation of £0.4 million (2003: £0.7
million) was paid.
Working Capital
Trade debtors grew in the year mainly as a
result of an increased number of contractors
working and extended payment terms with
certain larger corporate clients. 
Borrowings
The Balance Sheet was free of debt at 31
January 2004. There was a positive cash
position of £3.3 million at the year-end. The
Group has no significant capital expenditure
plans for the year ahead.
Treasury
The Group finances its operations through
invoice discounting (facility not used in the
year), bank borrowings, retained profit and
working capital balances such as trade debtors
and creditors. No other financial instruments are
used. In the absence of any debt and with the
Group’s positive cash position, the Directors
consider that the levels of interest rate and
exchange rate risk are acceptable. Investment
of surplus cash on short-term deposits
generated interest income of £151,000 during
the year.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a
reasonable expectation that the Group has
adequate reserves to continue to fund
operations for the foreseeable future. For this
reason they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.
Andrew M Zielinski
Chief Executive
Earnings/(loss) 
per share (p) * As restated
00 01 02 03* 04
18.1 7.6 6.4 (0.16) 0.76
Dividends 
per share (p)
00 01 02 03 04
12.5 6.3 2.8 2.1 2.1
Chief Executive’s Review continued 
Financial
08/09
