 Our traditional core IT contracting business continued
to experience healthy growth, consolidating on gains
made the previous year. 
MSB's first ever acquisition, Leading Edge Recruitment,
made in November 2003, was successfully integrated
into the business in the early months of 2004 and made
a positive contribution throughout the period. The
strategy of identifying, acquiring and rapidly integrating
suitable add-on businesses capable of further
penetrating our existing markets or diversifying us into
new areas continued in the year. On 28 September
2004 we announced the acquisition of Elite Computer
Staff Ltd extending our capability to provide permanent
recruitment services to technology markets. Elite
continues to operate as an autonomous unit but
benefits from the integration of back office facilities and
access to the wider client base and services available
to all business units within MSB.
Our diversification programme was also extended
during the year with the launch of MSB Secretarial in
June 2004. MSB's Diversified Division now comprises
Finance; Sales & Marketing; Engineering; Supply Chain
Management; Human Resources and Secretarial.
Results and Dividends
The turnover for the year was up 37% at £92 million
(2004: £67 million) with profit before taxation up 165%
at £825,000 (2004: £311,000). Earnings per share were
up 238% at 2.57p (2004: 0.76p). Operating cash inflow
was £322,000 (2004: £1.7 million outflow) resulting in a
net cash balance of £1.2 million (2004 £3.3 million).
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.8p
(2004: 1.4p) bringing the total dividend for the year to
2.5p (2004: 2.1p).
Management and Organisation
I am delighted that in September 2004 Sarah Anderson
CBE joined the Board as a Non-executive Director and
has subsequently taken Chair of the Remuneration
Committee. Sarah brings with her extensive experience
of the recruitment sector having founded and built
Mayday Group Ltd, a company specialising in the
provision of staff to the catering industry. Sarah is also
actively involved in a number of Government initiatives
and committees relating to recruitment, employment,
regulation, management and leadership.
Chairman’s Statement
It is gratifying to be able to report a solid set of results for the year, showing
continued earnings growth; substantial increases in revenues and profitability;
positive cash at bank and ongoing improvements in operational efficiencies. 
Acquiring add-on businesses and
diversifying into new areas During the year we have also strengthened our
Management Team by selective recruitment of
high calibre personnel reinforced by on-going
training and development initiatives.
We recognise that to a large extent the success of
our Company depends upon the commitment and
professionalism of our management team and we
will continue to seek to recruit, train and retain the
best available.
Our organisation structure was modified in the
year to create two operational divisions supported
by a central marketing and business development
function. The first division encompasses our
technology business units whilst the second
groups together our diversified businesses.
Strategy
Two years ago, after a period of retrenchment,
MSB set itself a number of strategic objectives
intended to reposition the Company in a
recruitment market which had changed
significantly since the late 1990's.
Much has been achieved in that time. A substantially
new management team has delivered two years of
positive earnings growth and has detailed initiatives
and the infrastructure to continue that trend.
Whereas only a few years ago the Company
depended entirely on the short term placement of IT
contractors for its revenue, MSB now provides an
integrated recruitment service incorporating the
provision of both temporary and permanent staff to a
range of industries, delivering a diversified portfolio
of services to a large range of sectors.
By continuing the process of company funded
start-ups and targeted acquisitions, this
programme of broadening our overall service
offerings will extend our ability to respond to
market demands for multi-recruitment capability
from a single supplier.
MSB People
Our sound performance, in what proved to be a
demanding year for the recruitment services
sector, could not have been achieved without the
hard work, flair and dedication of our staff. At
MSB we realise that our people are our greatest
asset and our culture reflects this. The Board
wishes to thank them all for their effort and
commitment. We are sure that they will again rise
to the challenges that lie ahead and will help us
secure MSB's position as a quality provider of
integrated recruitment services.
Current Trading and Prospects
Market conditions for our services during the first
two months of the current financial year show
improvements on this time last year. Whilst we are
encouraged by overall improvements in market
conditions, longer-term growth forecasts remain
unpredictable. 
Our strategy of diversification has made us more
resilient to economic conditions and better places
us to take advantage of upturns in any specific
sector. Continued diversification into permanent
recruitment provides us with improvements in
cashflow and stabilised gross margins.
We are confident that the business will continue to
perform well as a result of the anticipated
sustained market conditions and our strategy of
extending our recruitment services.
Paul Davies
Non-executive Chairman
02/03 MSB International PLC Annual Report 2005
