 2
Chairman’s Statement
Paul Davies
Non-executive Chairman
The past year has been one full of challenges
for MSB and it is a reflection on the quality of
its management and staff that the Company
continues to be a leading provider of human
capital solutions.
inflow of £11 million (2002: £8.3 million) resulted in a net cash
balance of £6.2 million (2002: £3.4 million net borrowings).
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.4p (2002:
1.4p), bringing the total dividend for the year to 2.1p 
(2002: 2.8p).
Management and Organisation
There have been a number of changes to the Board in 
the period.
In August John Bateman stood down as Chief Executive
and Andrew Zielinski was promoted to the post after four
years as Finance Director. As a result of this, Douglas
Adshead-Grant was appointed Finance Director in November,
joining us from the Frozen Food division of Albert Fisher
Group plc where he was the interim Finance Director. 
In October, Charles G Toner stood down as senior Non-
executive after three years’ loyal service.
The Board would like to register their thanks to both John
and Charles for their commitment and guidance during
what was a time of exceptional change for MSB.
This was a year of considerable change for MSB. Market
conditions continued to be extremely difficult with demand
for our traditional services declining. Increased focus on
internal controls and strict financial management has re-
aligned our cost base to reflect reduced levels of revenue
and has considerably improved our cash position.
Several changes at both main Board and operational level
have resulted in a substantially new management team
prepared to respond to the challenges and opportunities
which now present themselves.
This team continues to develop the existing business and
has commenced investigation into strategic initiatives
aimed at enabling the Company to respond to the new
circumstances which it, along with the rest of the industry,
now faces.
Results and Dividend
Turnover for the year was £84 million (2002: £146 million) with
profit before taxation and exceptional item at breakeven
(2002: £3 million profit). Basic loss per share before
exceptional item was 0.16p (2002: 10.4p profit) and after
exceptional item 2.32p (2002: 6.4p profit). Operating cash 3
Also in November, and following the resignation of John
Bateman as Executive Chairman, the Board invited me to
join them as Non-executive Chairman to oversee the
changes in strategy and business focus which would be
needed for the next phase of MSB’s development. 
At the beginning of the year MSB concentrated primarily on
the provision of IT and telecommunications contractors
which historically had been a key driver in the business
model. In response to declining activity in this traditional
market, the Company instigated a sector-focused sales
structure supported by a technical skills-based resourcing
division.
In parallel to this restructuring programme, several new
self-funding initiatives were launched in the second half
including MSB Finance (a division specialising in delivering
finance, banking and accounts personnel) and MSB Sales
(a division providing permanent sales personnel to the IT
and related sectors). Both divisions were founded around
the recruitment of individuals with a proven track record in
their respective sectors and, although in their infancy, both
are showing solid potential.
MSB People
The past year has been one full of challenges within MSB
and it is a reflection on the quality of both its management
MSB International Plc Annual Report 2003 4
Chairman’s Statement continued
and staff that the Company has continued to maintain its
position as a leading provider of human capital solutions.
We have retained and secured many new customers by
demonstrating continued commitment to both clients and
candidates in the professional manner which has become
expected of them. The Board would like to express their
thanks and appreciation to them all.
Current Trading and Prospects
The IT staffing sector has proven itself over many years to
be a barometer of the health of the IT market in general.
When industries invest in latest technologies to support
growth in their own businesses so demand for IT skills
increases and the sector prospers. Similarly, when companies
respond to tougher conditions so they seek to reduce costs
and IT investment is frequently an early casualty.
Following the massive IT spends during the late 1990’s
most sectors have steadily reduced IT budgets to match
tougher economic conditions in their own markets. Most of
the IT industry has suffered the effects of this downturn
and MSB, along with its peers in IT skills resourcing, has
been no exception.
The challenge we face in MSB at present, therefore, is to
balance the need for cost reductions in line with reduced 5
revenues, whilst retaining the capacity to respond to and
seek out growth opportunities. Overly aggressive cost
control may well maximise short term earnings but would
undoubtedly restrict our ability to benefit from any upturn in
the IT investment cycle, thereby damaging our longer term
prospects. 
Recent stringent cost cutting and re-organising exercises
have been aimed at achieving this balance. Overheads are
now more appropriate for current trading conditions but we
have retained some capacity to support a strategy of
widening our service offerings. We are also mindful that at
times such as these, opportunities can present themselves
for consolidation and whilst currently we are not involved in
any such activity, we will consider any suitable acquisition
prospect which could enhance shareholder value.
Trading in the first two months has been in line with
management’s expectations and whilst market conditions
continue to be tough, the Board believes that the
necessary actions have been taken for a return to positive
earnings and remains confident in the long-term prospects
for the Company.
Nicholas Parker
After 12 years of service on the Board of MSB, Nicholas
Parker will be resigning from his current role as Non-
executive Director at the announcement of the interim
results, having completed two consecutive periods in this
position since flotation. With the appointment of a new
Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, Mr Parker
believes that a new stability has been reached within the
Company and wishes to facilitate the ongoing restructuring
of the Board, having been a member of the team who has
overseen the Company develop into a secure and strong
business. He will be retaining his position as a significant
shareholder, understanding that the results of recent
management actions will reap significant benefits within the
coming years. He will also remain available to the Board for
advice and consultation, as required.
MSB International Plc Annual Report 2003
