 6
Chief Executive’s Report
MSB has focused on enhancing core business
activities and launching new recruitment market
initiatives, during challenging market conditions.
Andrew M Zielinski
Chief Executive
before tax and exceptional items has been achieved in line
with market expectations.
Decisive expense reductions were made and tight cost
control measures over discretionary spend introduced.
Restructuring led to a downsizing in the support
departments and also affected a number of senior sales
and non-sales management positions. Surplus office space
has been re-let at our head office in Bromley and vigilant
cost management and efficient credit management have
resulted in significant cash generation. Strong cash
management generated an inflow of £11 million which was
utilised in the repayment of a £5 million fixed term loan,
leaving net cash balances of £6.2 million compared to net
borrowings of £3.4 million last year. As a result, we finish
this financial year with a long-term debt free, solid 
balance sheet.
Market Overview
It is impossible to disguise the fact that the markets in
which we have been operating have been unforgiving.
Pockets of demand exist for specialist skills which
command premium rates and our increased focus on client
relationships enables us to capitalise on this. However, in
Having held the position of Finance Director for nearly four
years, I was pleased to have been appointed Chief Executive
Officer by the Board in August 2002.
When announcing the interim results on 1st October 2002,
I stated that for the remaining part of the financial year we
needed to establish a period of stability, focus on our
strengths, support the core IT recruitment business and
invest in new recruitment services.
Since then, I can report that we have made real progress.
Both the Operating Board and management team have
been strengthened; the remaining element in the restructuring
programme to streamline the organisational structure has
been concluded; and we have diversified into two new
recruitment sectors, Finance and Sales. 
Finally, I very much welcome the appointment of Paul
Davies as Non-executive Chairman, who brings with him a
wealth of IT services industry experience and contacts.
Results and Performance
Despite very challenging market conditions resulting in a
42% decline in revenues year on year, a breakeven result 7
MSB International Plc Annual Report 2003
the overall marketplace, lower demand for recruitment
services has seen continued pressure being exercised on
chargeable rates and margins have consequently suffered.
The excess supply of contractor labour over job demand
continues to soften the market.
Traditional and Core Business
During the year, the Company successfully concluded the
programme to re-engineer its traditional IT core sales
model. At the same time, the Resource Delivery Division
was established as a separate operating unit to continue to
exploit MSB’s traditional strengths in technical skills
resourcing. Adopting a sector focused sales model ensures
that we build long-term client relationships.
New Initiatives
The Company has acted swiftly in reducing the risk
associated with its dependency on the IT recruitment sector
and responded through the introduction of new initiatives.
Firstly, new recruitment services through a low risk and low
cost organic route were established. In August, two new
divisions were opened: MSB Finance was launched to
recruit qualified accountants across a range of sectors; and
MSB Sales was formed to recruit sales executives. Today,
both new recruitment divisions have teams of highly
experienced and skilled recruiters, based at the Bromley
Head Office, Central London, Manchester and Windsor.
Although the new divisions are operating in intensely
competitive markets, they are performing well.
Secondly, to complement the recruitment services, the
Company has introduced other products and services
including, AudIT and HR Express. These services and
products are specifically designed to address clients’
needs in human capital management over and above the
provision of labour.
Restructuring
Whilst we have reduced our cost base to reflect declining
revenues, we have retained sufficient resource to invest in
new business initiatives and support future growth. The
headcount reduction during the year was principally in the
back office and administrative areas.
The restructuring programme was implemented to
maximise our focus on sales activities and was uppermost
in our planning. Inevitably, some sales personnel decided
to leave as a result of the restructuring in the first half but
since then we have attracted new and experienced sales
professionals and we continue to invest in this area.
Business Development
The marketplace in which the Company operates is
constantly changing in what is currently a very sensitive
economic climate and, as a result, we are regularly
monitoring and updating the Company strategy.  Following
a recently concluded strategic review, the Company will
retain its focus on the maintenance and development of
the IT recruitment business; continued examination of
additional recruitment sectors to broaden its base
(reducing further risks associated with its historical
exposure to IT); and expand related recruitment services
beyond the provision of labour.
In conclusion, I believe this indicates the broad range of
organic and potential corporate growth opportunities
available to MSB, ensuring that the Company is well
positioned with the right management team and model to
move the Company forward.
