 MSB achieved a number of significant
objectives during a year in which the
recruitment market remained depressed. We
have returned the Group to positive earnings,
substantially increased the number of
contractors on assignment and invested in
new business streams. We also won a major
contract in the lucrative managed service
market and made our first ever acquisition.
The first few months of the current financial year
have seen us continue to make steady progress
in achieving the strategic objectives summarised
below and, like many others in our sector, we
are sensing some early signs of an improvement
in market conditions. Whilst it may be too soon
to predict a sustained recovery, current levels of
activity show marked improvements on this time
last year. 
Results and Dividend
Turnover for the year was £67 million (2003: £84
million) with a profit before taxation of £311,000
(2003: £1,000 as restated). Earnings per share
were 0.76p (2003: 0.16p loss as restated).
Operating cash outflow was £1.7 million (2003:
£11.0 million inflow) resulting in a net cash
balance of £3.3 million (2003: £6.2 million).
The Board is recommending a final dividend of
1.4p (2003: 1.4p) bringing the total dividend for
the year to 2.1p (2003: 2.1p).
Management and Organisation
I am delighted to be able to announce the
appointment to the Board of Ian Ketchin as
Group Finance Director. Since October 2003 Ian
has been fulfilling the role of Company
Secretary and has been assisting Andrew
Zielinski in carrying out the duties of Group
Finance Director. Ian has been Group Financial
Controller since May 2003 during which time he
has demonstrated a clear understanding of the
business and is already a valued member of the
Operating Board. 
Our Operating Board, which comprises
executive Directors and senior managers from
across the business, continues to manage the
day to day running of the Group. It also provides
the Board with valued input on both tactical and
strategic issues and is proving itself to be an
effective team, bringing together many years of
experience from our sales & marketing,
operations and support departments.
After considerable restructuring during 2002, 
the organisational focus for 2003 was on a
return to stability whilst establishing new skill-
sets capable of responding to clients’ increased
demands for greater efficiency, improved 
quality and broader capabilities. As a result
MSB’s sales team and support staff are now
better equipped to respond effectively to the
new market conditions which have emerged in
recent years. 
Strategy
At the beginning of 2003 MSB set itself a
number of key objectives.
First and foremost was the need to return the
Group to positive earnings in a market which
had been depressed since 2001 and showed
few signs of improving. Continued stringent cost
controls and aggressive sales activities
throughout the year brought their reward and
enable me to report a return to positive earnings
per share.
Our second commitment was to ensure that the
drive for profitability did not stifle a measured
amount of investment for future growth. This
manifested itself during the year in a number 
of ways.
Towards the end of 2002 MSB announced
several self-funding initiatives aimed at
broadening the Group’s service offerings,
including the creation of MSB Finance and 
MSB Sales & Marketing.
To further support this diversification strategy,
three new divisions were launched in the
second half of 2003: MSB Human Resources,
MSB Engineering and MSB Supply Chain
Paul Davies
Non-executive Chairman
Chairman’s Statement 02/03 Management. Whilst still embryonic, these
businesses expand our recruitment capabilities
across a broader spectrum and enable us to
enhance our service offerings to both existing
and new clients. We would expect this mode of
organic diversification to continue on a
pragmatic and opportunistic basis.
Our focus on long-term client relationships has
enabled us to extend our traditional skills into
the larger managed service market. The
announcement in October 2003 of a major
contract with Unisys signalled significant
progress in this direction. Whilst we seek to
further increase the number of such agreements
we are mindful of the need to maintain a
balance with our traditional activities so as not
to over dilute margins.
In my statement last year I pointed out that
opportunities for acquisitions may present
themselves during the year and in November
2003 we announced MSB’s first ever acquisition
with the purchase of the business of Leading
Edge Recruitment. Whilst relatively small, this
acquisition has reinforced our core capabilities,
secured us a strong position with a new major
client, has proved to be earnings enhancing and
has given MSB valuable experience in the
acquisition arena.
This strategy of profit improvement, whilst
broadening the Group’s traditional services and
adding new capabilities by both organic and
through acquisitive means, will continue to be at
the centre of our thinking during the 
forthcoming year.
MSB People
Throughout yet another difficult trading year, the
staff and management at MSB continued to
demonstrate their professionalism and
commitment to the Group’s success. They have
responded positively to challenging market
conditions; have embraced the need for change
and continually seek out new ways to enhance
MSB’s range of services and reputation. MSB’s
enviable position as a quality provider of
integrated recruitment solutions is as a direct
result of their continued loyalty.
The Board wishes to express its thanks and
appreciation to them all.
Current Trading and Prospects
Whilst MSB has experienced increased activity
over the last few months, overall conditions
continue to be unpredictable. We have therefore
factored some market recovery in our 2004
planning process and continue to invest in our
growth plans.
Our strategy of broadening the Group’s service
offering and strengthening sales focus provides
us with the opportunity to expand into market
sectors previously closed to us whilst extending
the services we can provide to existing clients.
We have experienced improved trading in the
first two months compared to the same period
last year and, combined with the ongoing
developments in the structure of the business,
this gives the Board continued confidence in the
long term future of the Group. 
Chairman’s Statement continued 04/05 Specialising in the provision of high calibre Sales and Marketing professionals
within the IT and Telecommunications market, our reputation has been built on
delivering innovative recruitment solutions, with the emphasis on helping our 
clients maximise their competitive advantage.
Sales & Marketing
