 Significant progress in the year under review was
made in line with our strategic objectives and growth
in the business was achieved both organically and
through acquisition. Organic growth was driven
principally through the investment in our people
increasing their effectiveness and a 21% increase in
the average number of sales consultants.
We continued the diversification programme
complementing our core revenue generator of Technology
contracting by growing permanent revenue streams in
both Technology and the newer, Diversified Division.
Another element in restoring the Company to
profitability has been sound financial management of
cost and cash. Whilst MSB is now experiencing
profitable growth, these stringent procedures will
remain in place thereby ensuring operational efficiency
and a healthy balance sheet. 
Financial Performance 
Gross profit grew by 35% from £10.2 million to 
£13.7 million (excluding acquisitions to £13.2 million).
The year on year overall average number of contractors
working grew by 52%. Cost control, a feature of the
last few years, was again vigilant, and although year
on year costs (excluding goodwill) grew by 27% they
represented 13.8% of turnover compared to 14.8% the
previous year. Included in total costs were first year
new business set up costs in the Diversified Division.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation grew
fivefold to £1.0 million compared to £0.2 million a year
ago. The solid results for the year ensure the Company
remains financially sound and maintains its track record
of measured long-term growth.
Technology Operations
The strategy is to retain the Technology Division as the
largest operation and continue to build it as a leading
Technology recruitment service. Our clients' resourcing
needs continue to evolve rapidly but, in responding,
our traditional principles of delivery, service and cost
effectiveness remain. 
We provide two primary services: Spot, or Contingency
(meeting clients' short term demands for skills), and
Managed (involving formal preferred supplier
arrangements). In the former, skill shortages and
increased demand in certain technical areas are
beginning to provide upward pressure on both rates
and margins. In managed services, we are able to
obtain economies of scale and therefore accept lower
margins linked to volume. We continue, however, to
decline certain very low margin contracts where it can
be impossible to supply the quality of service and
resource our clients expect of us. The strategy of
maintaining a balance in our client and business
portfolio between Spot and Managed customers
continued and the mix of revenues was improved
slightly to 55:45. 
The IT contracting business overall performed well in the
year and our interim results reflected the pent up
demand. Since autumn, demand for contract resource
has moderated. However, the full year result was a
significant growth in the average number of contractors
working of 32%, and in contract fee income of 23% with
resultant contribution increasing by 42%. We continue to
concentrate on building strong client relationships
thereby achieving substantial repeat business.
By means of both acquisition and organic growth we
have extended our permanent recruitment capabilities
in the IT sector. Permanent revenues have grown
significantly and now represent 14% of the Technology
Division gross profit (compared to 11% a year ago)
with a year on year increase of 62% in permanent fees.
Market Development
The Company continued to pursue actively a strategy
to establish long-term contractual relationships with
new client organisations through the presentation of
MSB as a provider of integrated recruitment services.
The contract with Unisys is an example of how a long-
term relationship can be developed to provide a broader
range of services. During the year this relationship
developed from Master Vendor of Technology contract
personnel to include a Managed Service of Clerical and
Administrative staff and subsequently a Managed
Projects unit to oversee the Technology resource for a
number of outsourced projects.
Diversified Operations 
At the start of the year the Diversified Division
consisted of Finance, Sales & Marketing, Supply Chain
Management, Engineering and Human Resources
recruitment sectors. In June 2004 we expanded our
capability by adding a Secretarial recruitment sector,
based in London, providing both short and long-term
contract and permanent staff.
The Finance division was initially based in Central
London with Financial Services as its primary market.
Chief Executive’s Review
The financial year ended 31January 2005 was our most profitable since 2002.
By contrast to recent years, the notable features are growing gross profits and
earnings and an improved sales capability. The strong financial performance is
generating confidence that the range of recruitment services offered is creating
an unparalleled opportunity for the Company. Bromley (Head office)
Technology, Engineering, 
Supply Chain Management,
Sales & Marketing
Windsor
Human Resources,
Finance, Technology
New Malden
Technology
(Elite)
Covent Garden
Secretarial, Finance,
Technology
Dublin
Technology
Frankfurt
Technology
Manchester
Technology
Glasgow
Technology, Finance
MSB office locations
Coverage of services
04/05 Chief Executive’s Review continued
Growth achieved organically 
and through acquisition 06/07
This was expanded to include a secondary market in
Commerce and Industry. MSB Finance now also
operates from Windsor and plans to have operations in
other offices during the year. The Sales & Marketing
division continued to concentrate on the resourcing of
sales personnel to the IT Sales sector. Engineering, in
its first year, has built a number of large client
relationships in the Power, Transmission and
Distribution sector and is currently expanding into
Construction. The Human Resources is Windsor based
and has established itself quickly in the active Thames
Valley marketplace.
There was a mixed performance in the year as the
various sectors are at different stages of development.
However, gross profit grew year on year by 168% to
£1.9 million. The Diversified Division now accounts for
13% of the total gross profit generated by the Group
compared to just 7% last year. The plans are to
consolidate each sector, adding scale where appropriate,
and expanding through our geographic network.
Acquisitions
The drive for growth continued in the year through the
acquisition of Elite Computer Staff Ltd (“Elite”). Elite
has been successfully bedded into the Technology
Division, while retaining its own identity and has
performed in line with management's expectations.
Where brands, such as Elite, are acquired, they will be
retained and their value optimised through further
brand exploitation. The acquisition underlines the
opportunities that exist particularly in the unlisted
sector, where there are well run businesses in good
markets with good client relationships and effective
sales forces. Consolidation in the recruitment sector is
likely to accelerate and the Company is monitoring
closely and following up defined opportunities that are
earnings enhancing. Through the Elite experience we
have built a model to integrate and generate returns
quickly with the minimum of disruption. 
Outlook
The recruitment market sectors in which we now
operate are growing. This may lead to a shortage of
suitable candidates, which could translate into further
increases in chargeable rates. The Company now has
well established, growing and focussed sales and
management teams with operational plans that will
enable MSB to benefit from any upturn.
Andrew Zielinski
Chief Executive
MSB International PLC Annual Report 2005
