 888 Holdings plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
04
17555 30/03/2010 Proof 11
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
Introduction
While the economic backdrop remained hostile and continued to 
impact performance both in terms of trading and fluctuating exchange 
rates, 2009 was the year that validated the strength of the Group’s 
combined business model: a world class B2C operator and an 
innovative and comprehensive B2B service provider.
During the first nine months of the year, our B2C business remained 
under pressure from the challenging economic environment. The 
fourth quarter of 2009 saw a welcome return to more normalised 
trading, with much stronger performance. Our stand-alone B2B 
business which was branded Dragonfish in March 2009, continued 
to show good growth with a number of new strategic deals signed, 
including an agreement with Linden Lab, operator of Second Life for 
payment processing and an agreement with bwin Italia for casino 
tailored for the newly regulated Italian market. 
Throughout the period we maintained investment and innovation 
in both divisions, using our working capital wisely and, as you will 
see from the look and feel of this annual report, creating a new 
corporate identity and refreshed sub-brands for our B2C offering, 
now launched to our customers. 
From a financial perspective, in spite of the difficult environment, we 
have delivered a solid performance. Total Operating Income was 
US$247 million (2008: US$263 million) with 33% increase in TOI in 
B2B. EBITDA* was US$46 million (2008: US$56 million). The business 
remains highly cash generative and as at 31 December 2009 our cash 
position was US$87.5 million (31 December 2008: US$98.4 million). 
* Before share benefit charges of US$7 million (2008: US$8 million).
Business Overview
Our strategy is underpinned by a number of core objectives:
l  Maintain and improve our position as a leading B2C operator
l  Become a leading B2B provider with a focus on new entrants 
and major opportunities
l  Make strategic B2C and B2B acquisitions to enhance our 
market position
l  Position ourselves to benefit from market trends and regulatory 
changes
l  Remain the most responsible company in the sector
These are the building blocks of our business and we are committed 
to delivering a strong performance in each of these areas.
B2C
Whilst the market for our B2C business remained challenging we 
retained our focus on innovation to ensure our offering remains at the 
forefront of the gaming experience. This included: exciting visuals, 
increased interactivity, more community focus and a new customer 
loyalty programme. We also introduced a number of ‘recession 
busting’ promotions and products, giving our customers the 
opportunity to be entertained whilst being sensitive to their spending 
capacity, thus increasing their ‘entertainment value for money’.
Following the success of 888ladies, our UK-focused Bingo 
offering, we introduced new social networking features which 
make the playing environment more social, such as enhanced chat 
experiences and daily blogs.
Under the leadership of the B2C Managing Director the business 
has taken on a new focus, leveraging new products and marketing 
campaigns to deliver further growth. 
A new Bingo TV campaign was launched in the UK to stimulate 
Bingo growth. The innovative ‘Poker Ashes’ tournament was 
launched and televised featuring celebrities such as Shane Warne 
and Darren Gough. In support of this, a large-scale poker league 
was launched in hundreds of pubs. 
17555888COM.indd   04 17555888COM.indd   04 30/03/2010   12:33 30/03/2010   12:33 www.888holdingsplc.com 
 
05
17555 30/03/2010 Proof 11
A live casino product targeted at European customers was launched 
during the first half of 2009 and includes Roulette, Blackjack 
and Baccarat. Following extensive customer consultation, a new 
Poker version was rolled out incorporating 25 features and design 
changes and we also introduced a new ‘best of breed’ poker loyalty 
programme.
888sport, while still a nascent business unit for us, continued to 
gather momentum during the year. We introduced a new in-play 
betting application as well as an innovative video stream feature 
promoting our most popular events, all assisting in driving additional 
growth to the domain. 
In December we acquired the Wink Online Bingo business. The 
transaction marked a further expansion of our emerging offering 
segment and is invaluable in helping to support our domination of the 
online bingo industry. Wink Bingo runs several online bingo networks 
including WinkBingo, PoshBingo and BingoFabulous. The network is 
operated on the Dragonfish bingo infrastructure and had over 60,000 
active players at the time of acquisition, making it one of the most 
popular sites for online bingo in the UK.
In the third quarter of 2009 we began a restructuring and rebranding of 
our consumer offering. Following a comprehensive branding study, it 
became clear that we needed differentiated sub-brands for each product. 
We carefully researched how we could launch a new streamlined, 
distinctive and digital modern look without alienating our players and with 
the potential to attract thousands of new ones. The decision was taken 
to build on the strength of the 888 brand and enhance its visual display, 
while also promoting four key B2C sub-brands with a reinvigorated look 
and feel — 888casino, 888poker, 888bingo, and 888sport.
Dragonfish
In March we reached an important landmark in the transformation of 
our B2B business, launching it under its own brand — ‘Dragonfish’. 
This stand-alone brand is indicative of 888’s intention to become a 
major player in the B2B market, highlighting Dragonfish’s status as an 
independent business unit within the 888 Group and emphasising its 
difference from our traditional B2C offering.
‘Total Gaming Services’ is the strap line that underpins Dragonfish’s 
unique positioning. Our clients are given the opportunity to benefit 
from the advantage of our comprehensive end-to-end service, global 
reach, resources and contacts, and specific experience across local 
markets. This comprehensive offering, unique to Dragonfish, is built 
on our extensive experience as an operator and, as such, is a major 
differentiator from other B2B providers. 
Dragonfish has its own Managing Director who is responsible for all 
B2B activities. These include business development, Programme 
management & integrations, Client executives Unit, Client marketing & 
operations, B2B marketing and PR and B2B Finance. This structure 
as a stand-alone unit ensures that the confidential separation between 
the two activities is retained. 
A number of deals were signed during 2009, some of which have 
opened up new territories for us as referred to below.
Phumelela in South Africa, where we will be providing a 
comprehensive sports-book offering; poker and casino in the Balkans 
with Loper Gate; and with Probability to develop and execute 
opportunities for mobile gaming and mobile lottery services in a 
number of territories including China, and South and Central America. 
In September we signed a landmark deal with Harrah’s International 
Entertainment, to provide services to its non US facing customers 
marking the first ever B2B deal with a major US Casino operator. 
During the year we also announced three new bingo partners, 
MoonBingo, BingoHollywood and Costa Bingo, cementing our 
position as a global leader in the provision of bingo services. 
In November, Dragonfish signed an e-payments deal with Linden Lab, 
an agreement which extends our offering of Total Gaming Services 
into Total Payment Services and highlights the increasingly diverse 
nature and strength of Dragonfish’s operations. We have various 
existing and potential gaming partners interested in our e-payment 
solutions demonstrating this giant step beyond our core operations 
into the retail environment. 
17555888COM.indd   05 17555888COM.indd   05 30/03/2010   12:33 30/03/2010   12:33 888 Holdings plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
06
17555 30/03/2010 Proof 11
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
continued
People 
Key to the sustainable success of our business and, in turn, the 
delivery of shareholder value, is the continued development of our 
team who have once again delivered these excellent results.
Looking around the Group today, I am most encouraged by our 
significant and growing pool of talented employees. Our leadership 
and development programmes are designed to support employees 
at all levels, from senior managers to those who are at an early stage 
of their career.
We remain committed to enable our employees to fulfil their potential 
and share in the Group’s success.
We believe we have engendered the right culture within our 
business and we are committed to our corporate values: leadership, 
innovation, excellence, customer centricity, collaboration and caring, 
all of which helped us withstand the tough trading conditions 
throughout the year. 
Late last year, 888 mourned the passing of one of its founders, Dr 
Aharon Shaked. Aharon was a committed and passionate supporter 
of 888 and we shall miss his unique contribution in the future 
development of the Company.
Regulation
888, as a regulated and responsible company, is constantly reviewing 
actual and potential changes in the online gaming regulatory regime 
all over the world. This serves both to allow the Company to pursue 
any possible opportunities to seek, receive and operate under 
local licences, as well as to guide decision making in relation to its 
existing operations. Especially in Europe, the Company is pursuing 
licensing possibilities in Italy (where the 888 Group already holds a 
licence), France and other jurisdictions. In addition, 888 is looking 
into potential licensing opportunities outside Europe. We believe 
that the online gaming industry is making big strides towards 
being fully regulated in an increasing number of jurisdictions, in 
an unparalleled manner which will change for ever the industry 
landscape. The unique position of 888 makes it well placed to take 
advantage of these changes.
Responsible Gaming
As we state constantly at 888, playing is not just a matter of 
entertainment — we take our play very seriously. 
Entertainment is our core business and it has an impact both 
on the people who enjoy it and the environment in which it 
operates. Conducting our business responsibly is fundamental 
to the sustainability of our business and its future success. With 
responsibility comes transparency and we believe that transparency 
is created through communication and so, as part of that, we took 
the decision to share the way we conduct our business with all our 
stakeholders. During the year we published our first stand-alone 
Corporate Responsibility report: ‘People-Planet-Play.’ While we 
recognise that we still have much to achieve, we are committed to a 
proactive policy of corporate and social responsibility that reflects the 
high professional and ethical standards we have set for ourselves.
888 is committed to provide responsible gaming products that 
comply with the highest standards of gaming safety, security and fair 
practice that exist globally. We regularly collaborate with external and 
regulatory bodies who guide us on all aspects of responsible gaming. 
For more details see our website: http://safe.888.com.
Our own dedicated responsible gambling website 
(888responsible.com) provides a full guide to responsible practices 
and is a source of practical support for all those involved in gaming 
or those who seek to understand the gaming environment. We are 
most proud of our work in this area and will continue to see it as a 
key element in creating a sustainable, growing business. 
Our 2010 Focus
We aim to grow our B2C business through various strategic 
initiatives, including the rebranding and refocusing around products. 
We expect further expansion of our geographical footprint, largely 
led by the anticipated regulatory changes that the industry is facing, 
offering us a much more favourable environment for years to come. 
In casino, our strategic goal is to maintain our dominant market 
leading position by continuing to offer the right variety of products 
and we want to capture as many customer segments as possible. In 
pursuit of this goal, we will integrate more products and continue to 
enhance the customer experience introducing innovative products 
such as a 3-D virtual casino. 
17555888COM.indd   06 17555888COM.indd   06 30/03/2010   12:33 30/03/2010   12:33 www.888holdingsplc.com 
 
07
17555 30/03/2010 Proof 11
As regards our poker business, we will continue to focus on product 
innovation and customer needs, and will be launching a major 
upgrade to our gaming environment and player experience later 
this year. We will also be introducing various features designed 
to enhance the online poker-playing experience beyond what is 
available today, aiming to attract a bigger audience to our offering.
We will aim for greater focus on acquiring new players to our sports 
offering, promoting additional events and investing more in brand 
recognition in specific countries. We will present unique features as 
well as exclusive promotions around the main sports events of the 
year — led by the football World Cup. 2009 was the year in which 
sport betting became a real revenue-driver for us; we plan to build on 
these achievements and grow our market share in 2010.
Bingo will remain a key growth area for us, especially following the 
acquisition of Wink Bingo, and we will focus on penetrating new 
geographies throughout the year, bringing the message of bingo to 
many new customers worldwide. 
For Dragonfish, 2010 will see a continuation of the successful 
growth strategy, focusing on regulated markets and integrating a 
number of new products and services to deliver strong organic 
growth for partners, whilst targeting new partners with the Total 
Gaming Services proposition. We feel that we have a unique offering, 
unparalleled in the market, and will continue to seek major new 
deals throughout the year. The year will also see ongoing activity 
with our current partners, who will enjoy a variety of new games and 
capabilities that will assist them in growing their own businesses. 
Dragonfish’s first independent global payments agreement with 
Linden Lab will also be launched in 2010, followed by additional 
payment processing management agreements.
Outlook
In conclusion, in 2009 we made significant progress in a challenging 
environment. Our strong business fundamentals and successful 
growth strategy are the basis of our long-term sustainability.
We will continue to drive further organic growth, leveraging our 
enhanced geographic footprint and our dual business model. In 
parallel, we also remain committed to further acquisitions as part of 
the ongoing industry consolidation and also achieving our strategic 
goals. 
While 2009 was challenging, the overall market is on a growth 
trajectory. Casino continues to grow and Bingo has significant 
growth potential especially outside of the UK while Poker remains 
challenging. We remain excited that sportsbetting is still a major 
opportunity for us. Last but not least, Dragonfish presents significant 
additional growth opportunities which we plan to exploit, both in the 
Total Gaming and Total Payments environments. 
Financially and operationally we have a strong platform to grow our 
businesses further and look forward to continuing to provide all our 
stakeholders with value both now and in the future.
Gigi Levy
Chief Executive Officer
17555888COM.indd   07 17555888COM.indd   07 30/03/2010   12:33 30/03/2010   12:33
