 MWANA AFRICA ANNUAL REPORT 2014
08
STRA STRA STRATEGI TEGI TEGIC RE C RE C REPORT PORT P • • • CHIE CHIE EF EX F EX E ECUT ECUT CUTIVE IVE IV OFFI OFFI F CER’ CER’ CER S RE S RE SREVIEW VIEW VIEW
The performance of Mwana’s people during the past ﬁnancial year 
underscores our capacity to position our Company as a leading 
emerging miner on the African continent. It was a performance 
that overcame difﬁculties and set-backs while taking new projects 
forward. This demonstrated our ability to contain costs and to 
optimise our return on assets.
But the past year was also one which delivered personal tragedies. 
At the Freda Rebecca gold mine, excavator operator Lovemore 
Nyanusanu (32) died on 13 October 2013 in a mud rush. At the 
Trojan nickel mine, Shepherd Muradzi (35), a support rig assistant, 
lost his life in an underground tramming accident on 16 March 
2014. I join with all of my colleagues in sending my most profound 
condolences to the families of Lovemore and Shepherd and to their 
friends and colleagues. 
Apart from these two unfortunate losses, our overall safety record 
measured in the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates (LTIFRs) improved 
at the two producing mines. Safety comes second to nothing at 
our operations. We ensure that our employees and contractors are 
equipped and trained to work safely and to ensure the safety of 
their colleagues.
As the past year started, members of the technical staff at Freda 
Rebecca were engaged on replacing a leach tank that had failed 
in the previous year. The replacement was ﬁnished in the year’s 
second quarter and complemented by a second leach tank. 
Simultaneously the team completed the pilot treatment plant 
for retreating tailings. Despite some difﬁculties with the tailings 
pilot plant’s capital equipment, commissioning was nearing 
completion as the ﬁnancial year ended. At the time of writing, 
commissioning had been completed which will allow thorough 
testing of the project.
An important part of our emphasis at Freda Rebecca has been and 
continues to be on containing costs. While cash costs per ounce of 
gold remained comfortably below gold prices for the entire year, 
by the fourth quarter all-in sustaining costs (C3) were close to the 
gold price, due to the operation not achieving its volume targets. 
I am, however, conﬁdent that by maximising gold production 
and with careful cost controls the mine will continue to operate 
proﬁtably. Our policy is to mine proﬁtable ore – we are not in the 
business of producing at any cost.
While Freda Rebecca was being brought up to steady-state, 
proﬁtable operations, production at BNC’s newly re-opened Trojan 
mine was being ramped up to full capacity. The year under review 
was the ﬁrst operating period since operations were placed on a 
care-and-maintenance basis in 2008. As the ﬁnancial year began, 
we were faced with having to re-evaluate our operating strategy in 
the light of sharply-declining nickel prices. 
We had hoped to raise additional capital to build operations, but 
this proved to be impractical as investors shied away from nickel 
as the metal’s price fell sharply. Our response was to introduce 
a modiﬁed mining sequence, based on the results from drilling 
carried out during care and maintenance. This mining method 
was evaluated thoroughly by our consultants, SRK, who conﬁrmed 
it as safe, feasible and not impacting on the life of mine (LoM). 
This strategy has proved its worth as nickel prices rose towards 
the year’s end in response to Indonesia’s restrictions on exports 
of nickel ore. Our conﬁdence in the sustainability of nickel’s price 
advance and the successful restart of Trojan has allowed us to 
reverse a substantial part of the previous year’s impairment of 
BNC’s assets.
While this reversal has a signiﬁcant positive effect on the year’s 
reported headline earning, it is, perhaps, best to remember that this 
has no effect on the Group’s cash ﬂow. For the foreseeable future, 
BNC will be conserving cash to fund the Trojan mine’s deepening 
and capacity development from internal resources. Cash ﬂow will 
continue to be directed at clearing BNC’s legacy liabilities or debt, 
strengthening the balance sheet and laying the foundation for the 
ﬁrst proﬁts to be reported since 2008.
Once that is completed, and adding to the beneﬁts of the mining 
developments, we are embarking on the current project to restart 
the BNC smelter, to move our nickel operations up the value chain. 
Preliminary planning started in the year under review and, 
based on the restart plan reviewed by consultant Hatch Goba, 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
Kalaa Mpinga – Chief Executive Ofﬁcer STRATEGIC REPORT
MWANA AFRICA ANNUAL REPORT 2014
09
GOVERNANCE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT • CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
we estimate that the project can come on stream in the ﬁrst 
half of 2015 with a capacity to process an annual 160,000t of 
concentrate, of which approximately one-third will be drawn 
from other local nickel miners. The capital cost is estimated at 
$26.5m of which half will be debt and the remainder will come 
from BNC’s improved cash resources and cash ﬂow. The project is 
expected to generate ﬁnancial beneﬁts on two important fronts 
– an increase in proﬁt from selling nickel leach alloy rather than 
concentrate and a reduction in transport costs as we ship leach 
alloy rather than concentrate.
In South Africa, the management of our diamond interests reﬂects 
our careful approach to operations. Following extensive damage 
caused by the ﬂooding of underground workings in 2010 and 
2011, the Klipspringer mine was placed on care and maintenance, 
where it remains pending our securing funding to re-establish 
underground mining. 
We remain, however, conﬁdent of the longer-term potential of 
Klipspringer’s diamondiferous kimberlite ﬁssure deposits and will 
retain the asset. In October 2013 we entered into an agreement 
with Greenhurst Mining & Exploration to recover diamonds from 
the old Marsfontein slimes dumps. Greenhurst brought in a new 
process for recovering micro-diamonds, a process that has proved 
its worth at the slimes recovery operation. During the second half 
of the year under review 28,600 carats of small diamonds were 
recovered and sold at an average price of $21 per carat. Revenue 
from this recovery operation is directed at covering the property’s 
care-and-maintenance costs.
Continuing care and maintenance has ensured that underground 
workings could be restored to initial production within four months 
followed, three months later, by the preliminary sales of diamonds. 
In round ﬁgures, we estimate that the capital investment required 
will be approximately $4m and the pay-back on the project will 
be 28 months. Discussions are taking place with a number of off-
takers to source funding.
Full details are contained elsewhere in this report, but at our 
Zani-Kodo gold prospect in the Ituri district of the north-eastern 
DRC where we are partnered by the state-owned mining 
company Société Minière de Kilo-Moto (SOKIMO), drilling allowed 
us to increase the size of our gold resource to 2.97m ounces. 
Metallurgical testing was largely completed in the year under 
review and we have entered the current year examining various 
plant-design options to be built into a project feasibility study 
based, initially, on the Kodo Main property. The area is a highly-
prospective zone of gold-bearing greenstone deposits with other 
major gold companies actively drilling and exploring near our 
permit areas.
Our other interests in diamonds are limited to minority stakes 
in prospects in the DRC, Angola and Botswana. Though they 
are comparatively small interests at present, they do not involve 
Mwana investing in exploration and development and we look 
upon them as long-term projects to be undertaken with our 
partners at some point in the future.
While our understanding of our Zimbabwean and South 
African resources is well developed, we also see opportunities 
in prospective ventures under exploration in the Katanga and 
Orientale provinces of the DRC. Again, we are adopting a cautious 
approach, steadily adding to the value of our properties’ resources 
while not wanting to over-extend our ﬁnances on exploration.
I believe it bears repeating that our strategy is to contain costs and, 
when appropriate, to partner with others with whom we can share 
them. This is particularly the case with our copper/cobalt prospect 
in the DRC’s Katanga province where we are partnered in a joint 
venture between SEMHKAT and Zhejiang Hailiang Company 
Limited, the Shanghai listed copper tubes fabricator. In terms of the 
agreement, Hailiang will ﬁnance the costs of exploring and drilling 
28 of our 34 copper permit areas at a total cost of $25m over four 
years, thereby buying into an interest in the venture. In the year 
under review, Hailiang spent $7m on exploration, which amount is 
subject to audit and veriﬁcation. Targets have been selected based 
on data collected from the year’s ﬁeld prospecting season. Drilling 
and further regional prospecting has just begun.
From a personal standpoint, I have again found working with 
my colleagues to be stimulating and I thank them sincerely for 
their contributions to the development of Mwana Africa in a 
year which has seen the Company and our future potential and 
prospects change dramatically. Their contributions have been 
made at a sometimes substantial individual personal cost. The 
Board and staff members have voluntarily made salary sacriﬁces 
which have helped mitigate falling commodity prices. I express 
my sincere thanks to each of the individuals who have made 
these sacriﬁces and contributed to the Company’s continued 
progress during the year.
There have been difﬁculties, but they have been overcome with 
conﬁdence and dedication and the Company is now on a sound 
footing from which to develop further.
KALAA MPINGA
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
8 July 2014
