 MWANA AFRICA ANNUAL REPORT 2014
06
STRA STRA STRATEGI TEGI TEG C RE C RE EPORT PORT R • CHAI CHAI HAIRMAN RMAN RMA ’S L ’S L S ETTE ETTE ETTER R R
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
The past year has probably been one of the most signiﬁcant in our 
Company’s history, both strategically and operationally. 
Strategically, we afﬁrmed our position and goal to be a multi- 
commodity, multi-country Pan-African mining group. After several 
years of building our asset portfolio with shareholder funding to 
achieve a position where we are capable of achieving income 
self-sufﬁciency, our business model has moved into its next logical 
phase of generating future growth organically, seeking funding 
and, if appropriate, partners, on a speciﬁc project by project basis 
rather than by general capital raising. Our focus is ﬁrmly set on 
rewarding shareholders through growth in asset value.
Operationally, we undertook a fundamental restructuring, founded 
on the premise that, in mining, the lowest-cost producer wins the 
day. This was motivated by falling prices for the commodities we 
produce (gold, nickel and diamonds); by the understanding that 
raising further development capital could be difﬁcult without 
offering increased foreseeable value and by the imperative of 
matching our projects to our capacity. In laying the groundwork for 
this, during the 12 months under review, we:
• Trimmed our head count from Board level down;
• Reduced the scale of our London ofﬁce;
• Reduced salaries voluntarily;
• Reduced our reliance on professional services;
• Cut operating costs; and
• Improved operating efﬁciencies.
Our activities are being directed towards the consolidation of our 
diversiﬁcation strategy, reducing overheads, derisking technical 
mining and exploration issues, increasing our operational cash 
generation capabilities such that, of our ﬁve major projects, two 
– Bindura Nickel and Freda Rebecca Gold Mine – are income 
generating; two – copper and diamonds – have reduced their burn 
rates; and one, the Zani-Kodo gold project in the eastern DRC, is 
advancing at limited cost to Mwana. As regards corporate costs, 
we are on track to achieve our target in annual savings, after 
allowing for once-off retrenchment and other costs of reduction 
or closure.
We have the assets in our portfolio capable of delivering on our 
evolving strategic objectives. At BNC, the operational plan allows 
earlier mining access and the blending of higher grade massives 
with disseminated ore to ensure a sustainable improved feed 
grade through the Trojan life of mine plan. We have restarted the 
deepening project and organic growth will centre on reopening 
the smelter, subject to funding, to add value through beneﬁciation. 
Most of the legacy labour liabilities at BNC should be discharged 
by December 2014 and the other liabilities by December 2015, 
freeing cash ﬂows to be applied to investment and operational 
purposes. At Freda Rebecca, we will complement our underground 
production, by concentrating on improving the performance of 
our plant and complete our testing programme of the recently 
commissioned tailings retreatment plant. At SEMHKAT, the labour 
force has been substantially cut and our Chinese partner, Hailiang, 
has assumed responsibility for exploration expenditure. At 
Klipspringer Diamonds, the joint venture to treat residue material is 
generating income while the restart of the mine is being evaluated. 
At Zani Kodo, we are assessing the prospects of feasibility studies 
and a small pilot plant for gold production.
Our emphasis upon becoming a multi-commodity company is 
bearing fruit through the reduction of risks associated with being 
dependant on a single metal. We have already enjoyed some 
beneﬁts from this commodity diversiﬁcation, with BNC production 
having supported the Group and Freda Rebecca pre-2009, while 
Freda Rebecca production supported the Group and BNC post-2009. 
I am conﬁdent of the sound long-term prospects of our two 
principal metals, though the immediate future is likely to exhibit 
price volatility. The nickel price has been bolstered by Indonesia’s 
Stuart Morris – Interim Chairman STRATEGIC REPORT
MWANA AFRICA ANNUAL REPORT 2014
07
GOVERNANCE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT • CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
ban on exports of nickel ore, whilst the gold price has been lower 
as investors anticipate interest rate increases that raise the cost of 
holding bullion as an investment.
As the past year’s results have shown, we have demonstrated 
an ability to contain costs to acceptable levels. We are fortunate 
that the majority of both our revenues and costs are denominated 
in US dollars as this relieves us of some of the distraction of 
managing exchange rate ﬂuctuations. Our strategy is to mine 
proﬁtably. We will not pursue new ventures unless they display 
clear prospects of sound returns on investment.
Careful cash-ﬂow management is central to our business plan and 
we will direct investment to those projects and operations that 
offer the best prospects of returns. This applies as much to our 
exploration initiatives in the DRC as to our developed mines in 
Zimbabwe, and this is dealt with more fully by my colleague and 
CEO, Kalaa Mpinga, in his CEO’s report.
In Zimbabwe – the central point of our mining and processing 
operations – the outcome of the general election in July 2013 
lifted much of the political uncertainty that preceded it. Like the 
governments of many other countries dependent on primary 
products, Zimbabwe’s is aware of the need to foster mining and 
investment, at the same time being mindful of its responsibility to 
ensure that the local populace should share fairly in the fruits of 
their country’s own resources. It is pleasing that we are in a position 
to resume smelting at BNC as it represents cooperation with the 
Zimbabwean government and its beneﬁciation objectives. We 
believe that this, too, can contribute to the indigenisation policy by 
creating more jobs for local people, by increasing purchases from 
local suppliers and through generating higher taxable revenues.
I have been Interim Chairman since only February 2014, but 
have always appreciated the skills and expertise that my Board 
colleagues and executives bring to the management of our 
Company. During the year, my long-serving predecessor Oliver 
Baring retired, along with John Anderson and Etienne Denis and 
I thank them for the direction they gave during their tenure on 
the Board. Oliver was succeeded, albeit brieﬂy, by Mark Wellesley-
Wood who we would also like to thank for his contribution. 
I would also like to thank Donald McAlister, who left in September, 
for his contribution during his time on the Board and to welcome 
our new Finance Director Yim Kwan to the Board. These departures 
mean that we are seeking to appoint a permanent Chairman, as 
well as improving the balance of our Board, and that search will 
be completed as expeditiously as possible. I would like to express 
my sincere thanks to my colleagues on the Board, our senior 
executives and all of our staff in many countries for their support 
during the past challenging year. I also express my gratitude to our 
shareholders and stakeholders for their continued support, which 
has contributed to the successes already mentioned above.
Safety is our priority, and it is with deep regret that I record the 
unfortunate deaths of two of our colleagues, Lovemore Nyanusanu 
and Shepherd Muradzi, in accidents at Freda Rebecca and Trojan. 
My condolences go to the families, friends and colleagues of both 
men. I assure all of our employees that our efforts to ensure safety 
are a priority and remain unremitting.
I make no forecast of our Group’s near-term performance, particularly 
given the current uncertainties over commodity prices. There remains 
some distance to travel before we are generating positive cash 
ﬂows at all of our projects. But while we will be patient in achieving 
this, we remain mindful of our commitment to deliver wealth to 
our shareholders. We shall build on our assets that are generating 
positive cash ﬂows and carefully develop those that are still in 
their infancy or are being maintained in anticipation of proﬁtable 
development. Stakeholders may rest assured that we will work hard 
to implement our strategy and focus on the sound development of 
our assets.
Stuart Morris
Interim Chairman
8 July 2014
