 4 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 
Chairman’s Statement N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 5
Financial Results
Profit before taxation is up 21.3% to 
£92.3m, and after adjusting for the 
£9.6m fair value adjustment to financial 
instruments (2008, £1.8m) the underlying 
profit before taxation is up 11.3% to 
£82.7m. Adjusted earnings per share have 
grown by 11.2% to 21.96p. In the current 
environment the board believes it is prudent 
to recommend an unchanged final dividend 
of 6.41p, making a total of payment of 
9.19p, up 1.4%, which is covered 
2.4 times. 
Net borrowings at the year-end stood at 
£218.3m, an increase of £18.9m on last 
year, primarily due to the increase in 
interest-bearing trade debtors. During the 
year we have benefited from decreasing 
interest rates which has reduced the net 
finance costs from £15.6m to £12.8m. Net 
interest payable on borrowings is covered 
7.5 times (2008, 5.9 times), and gearing is 
76% (2008, 80%) based on net assets of 
£288.3m, up 16.0%. 
We have committed borrowing facilities 
of £320m in place until 2012, which, 
together with our other resources and 
cash generated by the business, we 
believe is more than adequate to cope 
with any further deterioration in 
the economy.
Trading
Key highlights in the year have been:
• 	 G r o w t h 	 i n 	 a l l 	 a r e a s 	 o f 	 o u r 	 b r a n d	 
portfolio, from both new and established 
customers and from all major product 
groups
• 	 T h e 	 o n g o i n g 	 s t r e n g t h 	 o f 	 o u r 	 e - c o m m e r c e	
activity which has grown by 38% and 
now accounts for 34% of all sales, 
delivering both higher order values  
and reduced transaction costs
•	 The 	 str ong 	 gr owth 	 fr om 	 our 	 newer	
brands, launched in 2007, which 
accounted for 36% of the total growth.  
In particular we have seen strong demand 
for Marisota, targeting contemporary, 
confident women, and Jacamo, with its 
younger menswear in larger sizes, with  
a high branded content
•	 The 	 ongoing 	 development 	 of 	 our 	 pr oduct	
range where we have built on the 
extensive range of options available in 
terms of size and fit, and seen strong 
growth from our branded and celebrity-
designed ranges
• 	 A c h i e v i n g 	 o u r 	 h i g h e s t 	 e v e r 	 l e v e l 	 o f	
customer satisfaction reflecting the 
concerted campaign to improve all 
aspects of the service offered from  
order through to delivery
•	 The 	 initiation 	 of 	 our 	 international 	 trials,	
notably the launch in February 2009 of 
Simply Be in Germany.
Board
In March 2009 we welcomed Anna Ford to 
the board as a new non-executive director 
and we also appointed Ivan Fallon as 
deputy chairman of the group. I believe we 
have a talented, experienced and balanced 
group of non-executive directors who will 
help management to shape our business 
strategy going forward. 
Environment
We have had a proactive campaign to 
reduce our impact on the environment. 
I am delighted that in the last three years 
we have delivered an 8% reduction in our 
carbon footprint profile, including a 10% 
reduction in utility consumption, and we 
now recycle 83% of all our waste. 
Outlook
T h e 	 n e x t 	 y e a r 	 w i l l 	 b e 	 v e r y 	 c h a l l e n g i n g 	 d u e	
to the recession, which will see higher levels 
of unemployment, and the ongoing impact 
from the devaluation of sterling, which will 
put pressure on our input prices. We have 
to carefully manage our sales growth and 
debtor book in this environment. However 
a key strength of our business is its flexible 
cost base which enables us to adapt to 
changing conditions. 
Our multi channel strategy, targeting our 
customers with products that fit their 
individual needs, together with excellent 
service and delivery options, will remain
the cornerstone of our strategy in the 
future and help to ensure resilience to 
these economic conditions that are likely 
to prevail into 2010. 
The 	 new 	 financial 	 year 	 has 	 started 	 well, 	 
with sales for the 8 weeks to 25 April 2009 
6.1% ahead of last year. We have plans  
in place to continue to invest in our  
e-commerce capabilities, develop our  
new brands still further, and will review  
our international trials to see if they provide 
encouragement to explore opportunities  
in other overseas markets.
Success can only be achieved with  
the commitment and hard work of our 
management team, our staff and the 
support of our suppliers. I would like to 
thank them all for the contribution they 
have made in achieving these results.
Lord Alliance of Manchester, CBE
