 08 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chairman’s Statement
Financial Results
Total group revenue increased by  
4.8% to £753.2m. Excluding the non-
comparable periods for newly opened 
stores, the acquisition of Figleaves and 
the 53rd week, like-for-like sales grew  
by 1.6%. The combination of rising  
input prices and falling disposable 
income inevitably subdued demand  
from our hard-pressed customers,  
so as anticipated we reduced prices  
and increased promotional activity  
to stimulate demand. This led to a  
0.8% decline in the rate of gross  
margin to 53.0%. 
Operating profit is slightly down by 
£0.6m to £102.0m, after absorbing 
£5.2m of losses on opening the Simply 
Be concept stores and expanding 
internationally (2011, £2.3m). However  
it does include the benefit of the 53rd 
week this year which has contributed 
revenue of £12.9m and operating profit 
of £2.9m. Profit before taxation is up by 
2.5% to £96.9m (2011, £94.5m) although, 
once the fair value adjustments to foreign 
exchange contracts are excluded, the 
profit before taxation is £95.6m (2011, 
£98.2m). Adjusted earnings per share 
are up by 7.0% to 28.91p, benefitting 
from a lower tax charge, primarily due  
to the utilisation of tax losses acquired 
with Figleaves. The board is proposing  
a final dividend of 7.74 pence per share, 
up 5.0% on last year and in line with  
the increase in the interim dividend.  
This gives a total dividend for the year  
of 13.03 pence, covered 2.2 times.
Net borrowings at 3 March 2012 were 
£192.5m (2011, £180.9m). As expected 
there was a higher level of capital 
expenditure to drive internet sales  
and set up the pilot Simply Be stores.  
Net finance costs have increased from 
£4.4m to £6.4m, covered 16 times by 
operating profit. The rise is due to the 
higher margin payable on £350m of 
bank facilities which have been renewed 
during 2011 for a further five years. 
Gearing has fallen from 50% to 48%  
on net assets which have risen by  
11.6% to £402.3m.
Trading Highlights
During the year the key trading highlights 
have been:

of total sales, following 16% growth to 
£377m during the year.

investment across our brand portfolio 
based on the results of recruitment 
campaigns, mailings and online 
promotions. The strongest growth was 
from the Jacamo, Marisota and House 
of Bath customer brands.
We are pleased to have delivered a solid financial 
outcome for the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012, 
especially in light of the difficult economic conditions 
for our customers. For the first time online sales 
have reached 50% of total sales and we have  
made good progress in developing a growth 
platform for the business.
PROFITS AND 
PROGRESS IN  
TOUGH TIMES  09 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
The board is proposing a ﬁnal dividend of 7 .74 pence 
per share, up 5.0% on last year and in line with the 
increase in the interim dividend. This gives a total 
dividend for the year of 13.03 pence, covered 2.2 times.

Figleaves and High & Mighty delivering 
results. Figleaves made its first ever 
profit in 13 years of trading and  
High & Mighty opened 3 new stores 
whilst significantly reducing its losses 
to £0.2m.
 
the USA where sales increased  
from £0.8m to £4.8m. We deliberately 
slowed the rate of customer growth 
in Germany until we had reduced the 
rate of returns which improved by  
1 percentage point to 60%.

stores, and four more since the  
year-end, to test whether a full  
multi-channel operation can drive 
sufficient incremental sales to justify 
the investment and fixed costs.  
We will evaluate the performance  
of these stores towards the end  
of 2012 based on the uplift of sales  
from all channels in the postcode 
region around the store.

propositions in footwear and 
menswear to deliver growth of 6% 
and 15% respectively. The sales of 
ladieswear were up 2%.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The role of business in society has been, 
and remains, clearly in the spotlight. At 
N Brown Group we aim for continuous 
improvement in all areas from ethical 
sourcing of product through to greater 
involvement in our local community.  
A description of some of our initiatives 
are set out in the directors’ report.
Current Trading and Outlook
Sales for the 8 weeks to 28 April 2012 
are 1.0% up on last year and 0.6% up 
on a like-for-like basis. The year-on-year 
weather conditions and the earlier Easter 
break make comparisons complicated 
but overall the pattern of trading from 
the second half is continuing, with 
customers reluctant to spend unless 
the product or promotional offer is 
compelling. Consumer confidence 
remains fragile but we believe the 
situation will improve in the second 
half of the year as inflation and income 
growth become more balanced and  
our own comparatives become softer. 
In a weak economic environment any 
improvement to our competitive position 
must therefore come through our own 
actions. We believe that we have the 
required plans and platform in place  
for growth in these market conditions.
We will be offering customers lower 
prices in the autumn and will look to be 
more aggressive on key value lines. Our 
stock levels are currently well balanced 
and this will reduce the need for the level 
of discounting and promotional offers 
that were required in the second half 
last year to clear some excess stocks. 
Our online trading strategy still has 
much further to go and we can exploit 
the features and functionality we have 
already developed to deliver rich and 
relevant content, which will drive both 
incremental sales and cost savings. 
We recognise the increasing importance 
of strong brands in the online channel, 
high street stores and international 
markets and we will be concentrating our 
marketing spend on fewer of our brands 
than has previously been the case.
Customer recruitment was strong in 
the second half and we are investing 
extra resources this year to support 
this growth, in addition to campaigns 
to reactivate more of our lapsed 
customers. One of the aims of the 
multimedia Simply Be stores is to reach 
customers who are in our target market 
but prefer to shop on the high street, 
rather than online, and early indications 
are that a high proportion of store visits 
are from women who have not shopped 
with us previously.
 
International expansion is another key 
strategic development. We will focus on 
the USA, and we have now appointed 
local digital marketing agencies to boost 
Simply Be’s online recruitment and 
social media activities there. We will also 
trial both Marisota and Jacamo, initially 
on the Simply Be website, and look to 
boost Figleaves’ international sales.
Market conditions remain challenging 
but we have a competitive proposition 
for the middle-aged and plus-size 
customer groups, which have excellent 
long-term growth prospects. The 
continuing development of our unique 
product ranges, online trading capability 
and the expansion into stores and 
international markets should keep  
N Brown in the leading group of  
clothing retailers.
The ability of the business to rapidly 
adapt to changing market circumstances 
is one of its enduring qualities and I 
would like to thank all stakeholders, 
including suppliers and the trade union, 
for their contribution, but especially all 
our staff who have been both innovative 
and hard working to deliver record levels 
of service quality to our customers 
throughout the year.
Lord Alliance of Manchester, CBE
