 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 4
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report another record set of results for  
N Brown Group for the 52 weeks to 27 February 2010.  
This highlights the strength of our business and strategy  
as these results have been delivered during a challenging 
year due to the economic recession.
Financial Results
Total group revenues increased by 4.2% 
to £690.0m and by 3.3% on a like- for-like 
basis, excluding our international business 
and the sales from High & Mighty which 
we acquired in September 2009. Internet 
sales grew by 21% to £272m during the 
year. Operating profits were up by 2.2% 
at £97.6m and profits before fair value 
adjustment to financial instruments and 
tax were up 12.6% at £93.1m. Profits 
before tax and after fair value adjustments 
to financial instruments were £85.7m. 
Our focus has consistently been on 
adjusted profit before tax which reflects 
the underlying performance of the group 
and the basis on which the business is 
managed. Adjusted earnings per share 
have grown by 12.8% to 24.77p.
The board is proposing an unchanged 
final dividend of 6.41p, which gives a total 
dividend for the year of 10.79p, up by 
17.4%, covered 2.3 times, reflecting our 
confidence in the business. We decided 
to rebalance the split between our interim 
and final dividend payments at the half 
year and going forward we expect to 
pay approximately 45% of the full year 
dividend at the interim stage.
The more cautious approach we applied 
to credit granting and improvements to 
our stock-turn ratio have contributed to a 
£48.2m reduction in our net borrowings 
to £170.1m. This reduction, combined 
with lower interest rates, has resulted in 
net finance costs of only £4.5m (2009, 
£12.8m), which are covered 21 times by 
operating profits. Gearing has fallen to 
53% (2009, 77%) based on net assets of 
£319.0m, up 12.7%. Borrowing facilities 
of £320m remain in place until the first 
quarter of 2012, the increased headroom 
giving ample scope for our growth plans. N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5
Trading Highlights
During the year, the key highlights have 
been:
•  Ongoing development of our portfolio 
of brands targeted on clearly defined 
customer propositions. In particular 
we saw strong growth from our newer 
brands such as Marisota (targeting 
contemporary, confident women in their 
50’s) and Jacamo (offering younger 
branded menswear in larger sizes to  
the under 45’s).
•  Growth across all of our major product 
categories as we continue to develop 
the ranges around our core strengths 
in terms of size and fit. We have again 
continued to see strong demand for 
our expanded branded and celebrity 
designed ranges, such as by Mica Paris.
•  The strategy to expand our menswear 
sales led to a 17% increase in revenues 
from this category. This includes the 
benefit of the acquisition of the High & 
Mighty brand and selected assets in 
September 2009, with its niche offering 
across 14 high street stores and the 
internet.
•  Further development of our e-commerce 
activities, which delivered a sales 
increase of 21% and now account for 
39% of the total revenues. They also 
generate benefits in terms of lower 
transaction processing costs.
•  The successful launch of Simply Be 
website and catalogue in Germany as 
we continue to build an international 
presence.
Corporate Social Responsibility
We recognise that in addition to driving 
shareholder value it is important that we  
act as a responsible corporate citizen.  
To this end we have made great strides in 
reducing our carbon footprint and overall 
energy usage, we have a record number of 
employees engaged in charitable activities, 
and we continue to refine our ethical 
sourcing process.
Outlook
Looking forward, we anticipate continued 
pressure on consumer spending as well  
as further volatility in global exchange 
rates and commodity prices. However, 
as we have demonstrated over many 
years, the flexibility of our business model 
and cost base means we are capable of 
reacting quickly to market trends and this 
has enabled us to consistently increase 
sales and profits in recent years.
We will continue to follow a multi-channel 
strategy, focused on developing market 
niches through targeted customer offers 
with products designed to fit their 
individual needs, followed by active  
cross-selling promotions. Additional 
investment in our online systems will 
facilitate incremental selling opportunities. 
In parallel we have an ongoing plan to 
drive further service enhancements and 
more delivery options.
We have recently launched two further 
brands to build our portfolio; That’s My 
Style presents customers in their late 50’s 
with our clothing and footwear ranges 
displayed in a contemporary format; and 
Williams and Brown is targeted at the 
50-year old man with a classic, but stylish, 
range of menswear. In addition we plan 
to develop High & Mighty by combining 
its revamped high street stores with a 
strong internet and catalogue offerings. 
Our international trials will continue with 
the launch of Simply Be in the USA in late 
summer 2010 and building our customer 
base in Germany.
Sales for the 8 weeks to 24 April 2010 are 
4.1% up on last year, or 3.1% on a like-
for-like basis. We will continue to closely 
manage the balance between controlled 
revenue growth and our credit policies  
in line with the economic environment.  
This may restrict the potential rate of 
revenue growth this year but it will also 
contribute to a reduction in the bad debt 
charge. The measures we have taken  
have resulted in a business well-placed  
to continue growing in the current 
economic conditions and the board 
remains confident that the group can  
make further progress this year.
The strong performance in the last year 
in a challenging market has only been 
possible through the commitment and 
hard work of our management team 
and staff along with the support of our 
suppliers and trade union and I would 
like to thank them all for their excellent 
contribution.
Lord Alliance of Manchester, CBE
