 10 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s Review
Revenue
Revenue growth has been delivered 
through the core UK home shopping 
business supplemented by international 
expansion and new store openings. For 
the 53 weeks to 3 March 2012 revenue 
is up in total by 4.8% to £753.2m, and 
by 1.6% on a like-for-like basis which 
excludes the impact of newly opened 
stores, the acquisition of Figleaves in 
June 2010 and the 53rd week.
Customer Groups
Target Age Revenue £m % Change
30-50 271 +13
Over 50 482 +1
Total 753 +5
N Brown Group has a very distinctive 
customer base, comprising over 6 
million individuals with an average age 
of 58, and an average dress size of 18. 
During the year we saw a small decline 
in the number of active established 
customers but a combination of 
higher selling prices and promotional 
campaigns led to a 4% increase in 
average sales per customer. Sales from 
new customers rose by 2% for the year 
as a whole, due to improved recruitment 
campaigns in the second half.
Under 50 Customer Group
The brands in this group grew at a faster 
rate than those targeted at the 50 plus 
segment, due to the development of 
Simply Be, Jacamo and Figleaves.
Simply Be is the largest single brand in 
the group with sales of over £100m from 
all channels and geographies. The focus 
is on fashionable and flattering clothing 
in sizes 14-32 specifically designed for 
the plus-size woman. These customers 
often have difficulty finding clothes to fit 
in other retail stores, whether in the UK 
or elsewhere, which is why we chose the 
Simply Be brand for both our international 
expansion and high street store trial.
Jacamo is targeted at the brand-
conscious thirty-something male who 
either wants the convenience of online 
shopping or struggles to find branded 
clothing in his size. Good response  
rates to the improved product offer, 
coupled with significant numbers of  
new customers, led to sales increasing 
by over 50%.
Figleaves has had an excellent year 
moving into profit for the first time in its 
13 year history after radically pruning its 
cost base. Sales from Figleaves’ own 
brand rose by 20% including the new 
FGL menswear range, and the range 
extensions allied to lingerie, such as 
swimwear and pyjamas. 
The other major brand in this section, 
Fashion World, whose customers’ 
are primarily from the lower socio-
demographic groups, had flat sales  
year on year.
50 Plus Customer Group
The midlife and older customers 
aged 50 and above suffered from a 
combination of high inflation, particularly 
for food and energy costs, and a low 
return on their savings. Two thirds of 
these customers are over 65 and have 
relatively fixed incomes. Consequently 
there was a contrasting performance 
between the brands targeted at the 
younger end of this category, such as 
Marisota, and those at the older end, 
such as Heather Valley and Special 
Collection.
Marisota increased its revenues by 
24% targeting the customers aged 
about 50 with a catalogue and website 
focused on solutions for problems 
with the fit of clothing and footwear. 
For example we promote our ‘Magi’ 
range which, using the latest design 
and fabric technologies, can create 
a smoother body shape. Similarly we 
have developed our ‘Legroom’ footwear 
range which now has five different calf 
fittings for long-line ladies boots. The 
same is also true of our lingerie range 
which focuses on the fitting and comfort 
problems customers have, which, as an 
example, led to the development of the 
world’s largest strapless bra, available 
up to size 48K.
Our longest established catalogue 
is distributed under the JD Williams, 
Ambrose Wilson, Oxendales, Fifty Plus 
and That’s My Style brands which 
account for 39% of group revenue. 
Sales were slightly down even though 
the average sales per customer 
were up. However there was a small 
proportion of customers who resisted 
all our promotional activity, and we 
will especially target them in 2012 to 
reactivate their purchasing activity.
The group has continued to make progress 
this year despite a significant decline in our 
customers’ discretionary spending power.  
This has necessitated active management  
of our selling prices, marketing investment  
and overhead base across all of our brands 
portfolio to deliver this outcome. 11 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
The group of brands targeting 
customers with an average age of 70 
had mixed fortunes, and in aggregate 
sales were down by 7%. Gray & 
Osbourn, targeting the more affluent 
60+ customer, increased full margin 
sales but overall revenue was lower 
as reduced stock levels led to fewer 
discounted sales. House of Bath, which 
sells unusual items for the home and 
garden, had an excellent year with sales 
up by 12%, and Julipa also did well.
Product Groups
 Revenue % of %
Category £m Total Change
Ladieswear 365 48 +2
Footwear 84 11 +6
Menswear 95 13 +15
Home & Leisure 209 28 +5
Total 753 100 +5
During 2011 the group was operating in 
product sectors which were amongst 
the most challenging in the retail 
marketplace. The plus-size clothing 
sector did not grow at all and the sales 
of home and leisure goods were also 
weak, particularly for big ticket items. 
Against this backdrop we can be 
reasonably satisfied with a 1.6% like- 
for-like sales growth.
Ladieswear accounts for about half the 
group’s revenue, and was up by 2% for 
the year as a whole. Due to the cotton 
price bubble in 2010 input costs for 
clothing in 2011 were up by 9% on 
average, which we passed through into 
selling prices. Customers were only 
being enticed to purchase if the product 
or the price was compelling. Consequently 
we had strong sales on lines where we 
had new designs or product with unique 
features and the designer and celebrity 
endorsed ranges but sales of basic 
casual clothing were down.
Within ladieswear lingerie sales were up 
7%, partly due to Figleaves’ performance, 
but we also took market share in bras, 
swimwear and nightwear.
Footwear saw sales growth of 6%. 
Core footwear sales benefited from an 
improved range of styles and fittings but 
we also had strong growth from men’s 
footwear, sports footwear and Viva La 
Diva, our online pure play which sells 
third party brands as well as our own.
Menswear continues to be our fastest 
growing product sector. Revenue was 
up by 15%, primarily driven by the 
success of Jacamo and the expansion 
of High & Mighty’s store network. 
We have recruited Freddie Flintoff as 
Jacamo’s brand ambassador and his 
range is selling well. More branded 
menswear suppliers are manufacturing 
their ranges in larger sizes, exclusively 
for Jacamo. In addition both Premier 
Man and Williams and Brown are doing 
well, as is our sportswear range.
Home and leisure sales were up by 5% 
in total, although there was a significant 
variation within the sub-ranges. Gifts 
and toys were 18% up as we promoted 
the Brilliant Gift website throughout 
the year, rather than just at Christmas. 
Electrical and homewares also had good 
growth, helped by the availability of 
credit on customers’ personal accounts. 
However furniture, bedding and home 
decor were all down as customers 
deferred home improvement.
Multi-channel
Online sales are now the majority of 
the group sales, as a 16% increase in 
online sales to £377m enabled us to 
pass the 50% milestone. The increasing 
proportion of new customers recruited 
on our websites, the improved quality 
of our email campaigns and improved 
website functionality all contributed to 
this growth. We are the market leader for 
online sales for plus-size womenswear, 
menswear for the fifty plus age group 
and many other categories. Sales from 
product lines only available online, most 
of which are shipped directly to our 
customers by the suppliers, increased 
by 29%.
This increase in online sales improves 
profitability as web orders have a 25% 
higher value than telephone orders and 
costs reduce in the contact centre as 
volumes fall. Telephone order volumes 
have fallen 17% this year, and telephone 
enquiries and payment calls are down 
21% as customers’ switch to using our 
redesigned online ‘My Account’ facility.
Despite the increasing share of all retail 
sales transacted on or influenced by 
the web the vast majority of clothing 
and footwear sales are still conducted 
in high street stores. This is even true 
for the plus-size market which led us to 
trial some Simply Be stores to see if we 
could profitably gain more market share 
for our most fashionable clothing range. 
We opened stores in Liverpool and 
Bury in autumn 2011 and in-stores sales 
totalled £0.7m by the year-end. We will 
evaluate the stores based on the uplift 
of sales from all channels in the post 
codes influenced by the store location. 
Early indications are that there is an 
uplift in the level of online purchases in 
the catchment area. In the last month 
we have opened stores in Gateshead, 
Teesside, Leicester and Doncaster and  
a Manchester store is scheduled to open 
in September. This small portfolio of 
stores is focused on five major shopping 
centres, including one out-of-town retail 
park, plus two smaller towns so we can 
identify the ideal type of location, 
Adjusted earnings per  
share up 7.0% to
28.91p
Total dividend  
up 5% to
 13.03p
Group revenue  
up 4.8% to
£753.2m 12 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Ladieswear sales  
up 2% to
£365m
Share of  
online sales pass
 50%
Menswear sales  
up 15% to
£95m
assuming further capital investment is 
justified by incremental sales.
High & Mighty was acquired out of 
administration in late 2009. Since then 
we have relocated the business to 
Manchester, re-platformed the website, 
relocated four stores, refurbished seven 
stores and opened six new stores, of 
which three were new in 2011/12. Total 
sales grew by 17% to £8.8m with like-
for-like sales up by 7%. Losses shrank 
from £0.8m to £0.2m and we would 
expect to move into profit in the  
current year.
International
We believe Simply Be’s fashionable 
plus-size clothing range will appeal  
to international customers, and have  
so far targeted Germany and the USA. 
Total sales were £8.4m (2011, £4.2m) 
with losses of £4.8m (2011, £2.3m).  
Our key target is the USA as the market 
opportunity for us is significant and 
the key performance indicators to 
date are favourable, with high gross 
margins and returns rates below 30%. 
Customer recruitment has been primarily 
through catalogue mailings to selected 
customer lists, supplemented by online 
recruitment through paid search and 
social media. The appointment of 
local digital agencies took longer than 
originally anticipated but they will be a 
key lever of growth in 2012.
Germany’s performance has previously 
been held back by high rates of product 
returns. A number of initiatives were 
implemented which have brought the 
rate down by 1% to 60%, although this 
is still too high. We limited the level of 
customer recruitment whilst we were 
making these changes.
We also have international sales for 
Oxendales in Ireland, a market which 
continues to be very challenging, and 
for Figleaves which has over 20% of its 
sales from overseas and an opportunity 
to grow them further.
Gross Margin and Credit
The overall rate of gross margin fell by 
0.8% to 53.0% with a reduced margin 
on product sales offset by an increase  
in net consumer credit income.
The sales of ladies clothing and 
footwear were impacted by the mild 
autumn weather and resulted in excess 
stocks of cold weather merchandise. 
As a consequence we offered more 
aggressive promotional discounts to 
customers who had not ordered and 
marked down prices to reduce inventory 
levels. Although this reduced the 
rate of gross margin by 2.2% we did 
successfully reactivate some dormant 
customers and limited the increase in 
year-end inventories to only 5.8%.
Income derived from our customers’ 
credit accounts performed well with 
revenue up 11.9% to £218.4m. Changes 
to credit policies and processes gave 
customers the options of paying their 
accounts off over a slightly longer 
period. This increased the gross margin 
rate from financial services income by 
1.4% with the increased interest income 
partly offset by a rise in the rate of 
bad debt charge, which increased as 
a percentage of revenue from 7.4% to 
7.7%. The arrears profile of the debtor 
book has improved during the year.
Overheads
The business has successfully controlled 
costs during volatile and inflationary 
trading conditions. An increase in 
average order values led to improved 
collation and a lower volume of parcels 
despatched. This offset much of the 
increases for fuel and payroll limiting the 
overall rise in distribution costs to 3.0%. 
Selling and administration costs rose by 
4.8%, in line with group turnover, but this 
included heavy investment in customer 
recruitment, both at home and abroad, 
and high rates of inflation for postage, 
paper and print.
Customer Service
Exemplary customer service is essential 
in difficult economic circumstances to 
maintain customer loyalty and in this 
respect we had an excellent year. The 
ratio of enquiries to orders improved 
further and we had the fastest delivery 
and the lowest ever levels of claims for 
goods not received. In addition our 
bi-annual surveys of customer satisfaction 
showed record approval levels.
Outlook and Current Trading
The strategic plan for the business 
is designed to develop our multi-
channel trading performance in the 
UK which will then provide a platform 
for international expansion. There are 
several components to this strategy 
which will be our key areas of focus 
during 2012/13.
Within the core home shopping business 
we will be concentrating our marketing 
investment on the key ladieswear and 
menswear brands plus the speciality 
propositions. We will improve our 
online trading capability and drive 
incremental sales which will allow us 
to reduce our mailing contacts. Our 
websites will be adapted to capitalise 
on the exponential growth of online 
access from mobile devices. We will 
review the attractiveness of further store 
openings relative to the capital outlay 
and we are testing Jacamo’s menswear  13 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Footwear sales  
up 6% to
£84m
Home & Leisure  
sales up 5% to
 £209m
Online sales  
up 16% to
£377m
on the mezzanine floors of two Simply 
Be stores. Similarly we will testing the 
international potential of Marisota and 
Jacamo within the Simply Be website  
in the USA.
Traditionally we have dealt with 
customers who regarded it as normal 
to open a credit account even if it 
was just to try on the clothing before 
purchase. As the online audience 
becomes more diverse in its age and 
socio-demographic spread we will be 
testing simpler up-front payment options 
to determine whether this profitably 
increases the size of our customer base. 
We will also be providing more delivery 
options for our customers.
Revenue for the 8 weeks ended 28 April 
2012 shows an increase of 1.0%, and a 
like-for-like increase of 0.6%, excluding 
the sales from stores not open at this 
time last year. Consumer confidence is 
still low but the situation should improve 
later in the year as inflation and income 
growth rates start to converge. The 
recent spate of retail casualties will also 
free up some capacity in the market 
sectors in which we operate.
We have seen encouraging results from 
our Spring recruitment campaigns which 
will help to rebuild the 3% reduction 
in the active customer database we 
experienced last year. We also have 
a series of reactivation campaigns 
for lapsed customers planned. The 
second half of last year saw high levels 
of discounting activity to clear excess 
stocks both by ourselves and in the 
sector as a whole. We have bought less 
stock this year now that lead times have 
returned to normal from our suppliers 
and we expect a benefit in the rate of 
gross margin in the second half. The 
reduction in cotton and fabric prices  
will result in lower input prices in the 
autumn which we will pass on to our 
customers.
Our online capability was strengthened 
last year, both in systems functionality 
and personnel, and this will enable us  
to trade our websites even more 
effectively this year. We have already 
seen an increase of 11% in our online 
sales in March and April compared with 
last year.
The clear focus on our targeted 
customer and product groups, traded 
through multiple channels and to a  
wider geographic audience, supported 
by more credit and service options,  
will drive the business forward in the 
coming year.
Trading was extremely tough in 2011 but 
everyone in the business has risen to the 
challenges facing them. This resilience 
and our focused strategic plan leave 
N Brown Group well placed to make 
further progress this year.
Alan White
