 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 010
 Chairman’s statement
The mature female segment continued 
to improve with 3% growth in the year.
Revenue grew in all our major product 
categories as we continued to broaden 
our ranges. The fastest growth came 
from our increasingly differentiated 
home offer where sales grew by 
12%, despite the reduced electrical 
sales arising out of the credit policy 
changes introduced in the second 
half of the year. This category is now 
focused on our “Famous Five” ranges 
which include bedding, home décor, 
homewares, outdoor living and family 
gifts, and accounts for 31% of group 
revenue. Footwear and menswear 
grew by 10% and 5% respectively. 
Ladieswear, which is a major part 
of our future growth strategy, and a 
significant opportunity for the business 
going forward, grew by 3% during  
the year.
The continued investment in our 
websites has driven online penetration 
to 58% of revenue. Online remains 
our priority channel and 40% of our 
sessions are now on mobile devices 
marking a significant change in the  
way our customers shop.
As reported at the interim results, 
we elected to pause our expansion 
into the US market during the third 
quarter. We have now resumed a 
faster rate of customer recruitment 
and we are applying what we’ve 
learned so far to the next stage of 
expansion. We have strengthened the 
team, taken the decision to focus on 
the Simply Be opportunity exclusively 
and based on the strength of our 
gross margin, begun to invest more in 
digital marketing, tailored ranges and 
website and service developments. 
The revenue for the full year grew by 
21% to £10m and customer numbers 
We are pleased to report that the group delivered a robust performance in 
2013/14 and has made a good start to the new financial year. We have grown 
profits during a period of major transition in the business as we begin to 
implement our new strategy for growth, including accelerating our investment 
in new markets and maintaining high levels of customer recruitment across 
our existing customer segments and brands.
We are encouraged by the early 
performance we are seeing in our  
US business and with our programme 
of new store openings in the UK as 
part of the development of our multi-
channel offering and we are confident 
in the renewed growth from the actions 
we are taking in our core JD Williams 
business. We are now applying what 
we learned in the early stages of our 
entry into the US market and resumed 
a faster rate of expansion there during 
the second half of the year. The roll-out 
of Simply Be/Jacamo stores has also 
gone well as we move towards our 
target of 25 stores nationally across 
the UK. We believe these new activities 
can be significant growth drivers for the 
group in the medium term.
Financial Results
  £m £m 
 2014 2013 %
Revenue 834.9 784.7 +6.4
Operating profit 107.0 102.2 +4.7
Adjusted profit  
before taxation 100.1 95.1 +5.3
Statutory profit  
before taxation 97.3 96.4 +0.9
Adjusted earnings  
per share (p) 27.88 28.15 -1.0
Total group revenue increased by 6.4% 
to £834.9m and 6.3% on a like-for-like 
basis, excluding the non-comparable 
periods for newly opened stores. 
Gross margin reduced by 0.3% for the 
year as a whole despite a second half 
improvement in overall margin which 
came from the reduced bad debt ratio 
of 7 .5% of sales. This was achieved 
largely following the introduction of 
new fraud elimination processes and 
credit policy rule changes on high value 
electrical products, introduced in the 
third quarter.
Operating profit was up by 4.7% to 
£107 .0m, after accounting for losses 
of £6.2m (2013, £6. 1m) from the 
investment in international trading  
and the Simply Be/Jacamo stores.
Excluding the impact of fair value 
adjustment to financial instruments, 
profit before taxation was up 5.3% 
to £100. 1m (2013, £95. 1m). Including 
these adjustments, profit before 
taxation was £97 .3m (2013, £96.4m), 
up 0.9%.
Adjusted earnings per share were 
down at 27 .88p (2013, 28. 15p), due  
to a higher tax charge of 22.0% (2013, 
17 .6%). The board is proposing a final 
dividend of 8.56 pence per share, 
up 4.0% on last year, giving a total 
dividend for the year of 14.23 pence  
up by 4.0%, and covered 1.96 times.
Net borrowings at 1 March 2014 
increased to £213.7m (2013, £188.7m) 
due to further investment in the 
receivables book, which generates  
our financial services revenue.
Net finance costs fell from £7 . 1m to 
£6.9m, covered 15.5 times by operating 
profit. Gearing has increased from 42% 
to 44% on net assets which have risen 
by 8.8% to £485.3m (2013, £446.0m).
Trading Highlights
During the year all of our consumer 
facing segments performed in line with 
our expectations and we continued to 
improve our customer service levels. 
The focus on consumer segments has 
enabled us to reinvigorate our offer and 
optimise more effectively our marketing 
investment. The fastest growth was 
seen within the male segment, which 
grew by 13% and the younger female 
segment which grew by 9%. are up 28%. Losses were up £1.7m to 
£4.7m as we continue to invest in this 
key geography.
During September 2013 we opened 
two Simply Be/Jacamo stores in Leeds 
and Derby to bring our number of 
stores to nine, eight of which are dual 
facia. The like-for-like sales from these 
stores were up 35% in the year, and 
they are now contributing positively to 
trading profit before central overheads.
It is our intention to roll-out a further 
seven stores by October this year, and 
we have already found a site on Oxford 
Street, which opens in September. 
These stores are helping to build brand 
awareness and we believe are ahead 
of our competitors in terms of multi-
channel services offered in store.  
They are responsible for an online 
“halo” sales benefit in the 45 minute 
drive time radius around each store of 
7% and 3% for Simply Be and Jacamo 
respectively, compared to those areas 
without a store.
In February 2014 we changed our 
check-out processes across the 
business to make it easier for new 
customers to pay by cash at the point 
of sale if they wished to do so. Our 
testing highlighted that we would 
achieve additional sales and improve 
cashflow from this initiative, and whilst 
it is early in the process the signs of 
success in this area are positive with 
30% of new orderers to date on all 
channels completing their transaction 
on a cash basis at higher gross 
margins. Most of these orders relate  
to fashion items.
In February we described our 
systems infrastructure development 
programme, which is designed to 
simplify our business and to create 
the foundations for our multi-national, 
multi-channel expansion plans. We 
have signed agreements with our 
chosen partners and have now moved 
on to the systems design phase. It 
is likely that we will achieve some 
reporting benefits later in the current 
year, but the positive financial impacts 
on our growth will be seen in the year 
ended 2016 and beyond.
Board Composition
In July 2013 Angela Spindler joined  
N Brown Group as Chief Executive  
and has already made a very positive 
contribution to the group. Her vision  
for the future of the business was laid 
out in February this year and I am 
delighted with the progress she has 
made in such a short time in shaping 
and pursuing the group’s new  
strategy. She is already driving the 
many changes required to achieve  
our objectives.
John McGuire retired in March 2014 
having been a non-executive director 
since 2005, and Anna Ford will retire 
from the board in July 2014 after  
5 years’ service as a non-executive 
director. I would like to thank them for 
their contribution to N Brown’s success 
over the years and wish them well for 
the future.
Financial Reporting Calendar
We have reviewed our approach to 
financial reporting and consequently 
made some changes in line with what 
is now best practice in the listed retail 
sector. Going forward, we will report 
our financial results in the normal way 
and with similar timings to our current 
approach. Additionally, we will issue 
pre-close trading updates at the end 
of each half year and also Interim 
Management statements covering  
the first and third quarters shortly  
after the end of those trading periods.  
One consequence of these changes  
is that we will cease the issue of  
current trading statements covering 
short periods at our financial results 
– an approach which is now routine 
across our industry. Consistent with 
this new approach, these results 
therefore do not include a current 
trading statement. Our first quarter  
IMS will now be issued in June,  
some weeks earlier than previously.
Outlook
We are stepping up the pace of 
change in the business in pursuit of  
our strategic ambitions. I am pleased 
to report that the team has made  
good early progress with the 
implementation of our plans to 
accelerate growth by building on  
the core strengths of the group.
Consequently the board remains 
confident in the outlook for the 
business, and we believe that the 
strategy in place will enable us to 
achieve our expectations in the year 
ahead and beyond. I would like to 
thank all stakeholders in the business 
and in particular the staff for all of their 
hard work and dedication throughout 
the year.
Andrew Higginson
