 6 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 
Chief Executive’s Review N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 7
Summary
The	rise	in	sales	acr oss	all	of	the	gr oup’ s	
core product and customer categories 
reflected the focus on our core strengths 
– targeting niche customer groups and 
delivering relevant products with an 
emphasis on the correct size and fit.  
This	was	achieved	whilst	also	attaining	
record levels of customer satisfaction.
Sales growth has come from both our 
established and newer brands and the 
continued investment in e-commerce  
has seen a further increase in online sales. 
Additionally we commenced trials to sell 
internationally, notably launching our 
Simply Be brand in Germany.
The	r eduction	in	the	operating	mar gin	
from 15.0% to 14.4% reflects an 
increased charge for bad debts,  
including a more conservative  
approach in our year end provisions, 
anticipating a deterioration in economic 
conditions.	The	of fer	of	cr edit	r emains 
a fundamental, and successful, part of 
our business strategy.
2009 will no doubt be a challenging year 
as the economic conditions are uncertain. 
However we believe that our business 
model is flexible enough to adapt to the 
prevailing circumstances.
Customer Groups 
Our customers are recruited across an 
array of over 20 brands, each of which 
has its own target customer profile and 
product offer. We group them into three 
age bands for simplicity:
•	 Y ounger	–	tar geting	customers	aged	 
30-45 years
•	 Mid-life	–	tar geting	customers	aged	 
45-65 years
•	 Older	–	tar geting	customers	aged	 
over 65 years
Continuing the trend that has occurred 
over recent years, our youngest  
customer group has once again seen  
the fastest growth, with sales up 21%  
to £200m. Simply Be has continued to 
perform exceptionally well with sales 
growth of 23% and is now our largest  
title in this category, demonstrating the 
attraction that our size 14 to 32 offer  
has to the fashion conscious female  
in her thirties. Simply Yours benefited  
from the combination of an increased 
recruitment activity and the popularity  
of its fashionable lingerie ranges, posting 
a robust increase in sales over the period. 
Fashion World grew revenues by 10%  
by promoting its value offer to the  
price-conscious customer in her forties.  
We also saw strong growth from our 
menswear title, Jacamo, which was 
launched in August 2007. Jacamo’s 
success is attributed to the fashionable 
branded offer in large sizes that are not 
readily available on the high street, and  
a customer base confident and happy  
to shop from home, particularly online.
The	mid-life	gr oup	is	our	lar gest	category ,	
with sales of £406m which grew by 7% 
during the year. Although the majority 
of sales continue to be generated from 
our established brands, including JD 
Williams, Ambrose Wilson, Fifty Plus and 
Oxendales titles, it is encouraging that 
another of our newer brands, Marisota, 
is showing real strength. Launched in the 
autumn 2007 season, it has quadrupled 
its sales by targeting middle aged women 
with contemporary clothing in a wide 
range of sizes, lengths and fittings. 
Premier Man achieved a 16% increase
in sales, in line with our strategic aim to 
improve our market share in menswear.
Our oldest customer group saw an 
increase in sales of 6% this year to 
£56m, fuelled by Nightingales, a brand 
and customer file which we acquired 
out of administration last year. 
Across all our titles, we have seen sales 
growth from both established customers 
and new customers recruited during the 
year. Our established database has grown 
by 4%, and the average spend for these 
customers increased by 7%. Due to the 
economic conditions, we took a more 
cautious view on recruitment in the 
second half but new customer sales  
for the year still rose by 8%. 
Product Categories 
A key strength in our business is the 
offer of an extensive range of products, 
with multiple options around size, colour, 
length and fit which cannot easily be 
accommodated in a high street store, 
but which we can service through our
two centralised warehouses.
Sales in our ladieswear division increased 
by 7% this year to £352m and account 
for 53% of the total. We offer an extensive 
choice of clothing in sizes 12 to 38 with 
an increasing proportion with multiple 
length	options.	The	gr owth	in	our	 
younger titles has increased demand  
for our designer and branded ranges.  
We continue to work with designers such 
as Caryn Franklin and Anna Scholz to 
produce ranges tailored to the needs  
of our customers, and in 2008 launched 
a new range in conjunction with Jeffrey 
Rogers, branded Jeffrey and Paula. In 
addition we work with a number of brands 
with exclusivity in larger sizes such as  
Joe Browns, Ben Sherman and Lonsdale. 
This	year	we	collaborated	with	fashion	
celebrity Gok Wan, who designed an 
exclusive range of shapewear for our 
Simply Yours lingerie catalogue which 
achieved high exposure in the national 
press and magazines. Our partnership 
with Gok complements our focus on 
providing fashionable lingerie for women, 
in an extensive range with bra sizes 
fr om	32A	up	to	56L.	Figur es	fr om	TNS	
Worldpanel show we are the UK’s number 
one online retailer of corsetry and lingerie. 
Menswear has seen strong growth with 
sales up 27% to 57m, driven by the 
success of both our younger and midlife 
titles, Jacamo and Premier Man. Although 
the target markets are different in age the 
success in both brands has come from  8 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 
Chief Executive’s Review N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 9
offering more fashionable merchandise  
in larger sizes, exclusive to us. Menswear 
now accounts for 9% of our total sales, 
and it remains a key area of focus within 
our plans to drive future growth.
Our specialist knowledge in footwear 
continues to benefit our customers with 
our wider fitting shoes and multi fit range, 
utilising our own bespoke lasts, emphasising 
our commitment to providing the perfect 
fit. Footwear sales increased 8% including 
strong sales growth from Viva La Diva,  
our online branded offer that targets the 
younger fashion-conscious customer.
Home and leisure sales grew 16%  
and now account for 28% of total sales.  
In the year we launched the Brilliant 
Gifts website and catalogue, which saw 
strong sales throughout the year as well 
as during the Christmas period. Sales of 
electrical products continued to do well, 
with our customers being late adopters 
for computers, flat screen televisions  
and satellite navigation for cars.
We actively encourage our customers to 
shop across the various ranges we offer, 
and a key measure is the proportion that 
purchase items from each of our ladies 
clothes, underwear and footwear ranges. 
This	has	incr eased	to	15%	and	these	
customers are proven to not only spend 
more, but also show higher loyalty and 
repeat orders.
Gross Margin and Credit
The	gr oup	gr oss	mar gin	is	a	complex	
amalgam of the different rates of gross 
margins in product groups, customer 
groups, financial income and bad debts, 
which in total reduced from 55.3% to 
53.2%.	The	gr owth	in	clothing	sales	to	
both women and men was beneficial 
to the gross margin rate, but this was 
offset by the increase in sales of branded 
merchandise and home and leisure 
products which have a higher average 
item value but a lower margin rate.
The	faster	gr owth	rate	for	the	younger	
customers was beneficial for financial 
income but has contributed to a higher 
charge for bad debts, which increased 
from 5.6% to 7.9% of total revenues. 
Ther e	ar e	two	other	contributory	
factors	to	this	incr ease.	The	thir d	party	
debt collection market has toughened 
considerably as a result of the economic 
downturn, reducing both the yield we 
achieve and moving from up-front 
payment	to	payment	as	collected.	This	
has resulted in a net increase to the bad 
debt provision for both past and future 
collections. In addition, we recognise the 
historical rates of default may not reflect 
the dramatic downturn in economic 
conditions and we have pre-empted 
this trend by taking a more conservative 
approach to the bad debt provisions, 
which at the year end totalled £41.1m, 
(2008, £29.1m). However we assess 
customer and product contribution 
at the operating profit level and we are 
satisfied that our credit acceptance 
criteria continues to strike the right 
balance between risk and reward.
We have also taken a number of other 
actions as a precaution against future 
customer defaults. Minimum payments
have been increased for newer customers 
and we have restricted credit availability 
for certain customer and product 
combinations where we have identified 
an unacceptable level of risk. We have 
an experienced team managing our 
credit business and remain confident 
in our ability to manage it through this 
economic cycle.
E-Commerce
E-commerce offers significant 
opportunities, as customers increasingly 
become accustomed to using the internet 
as an ordering channel. A key benefit we 
gain is that average order values online 
are over 25% higher than for orders 
though other channels, driven by wider 
ranges available on our websites and 
the ease of searching and browsing 
the entire offering. In addition, costs to 
serve customers online are lower than by 
telephone, and we see a higher level of 
repeat orders. During the year we have 
continued to invest significantly in our 
websites’ presentation and functionality, 
contributing to an increase in online sales  10 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 
Chief Executive’s Review
of 38% to £225m, now accounting for 
34% of our total sales compared with 
28%	a	year	ago.	This	varies	by	title,	and	
we see our highest uptake on our younger 
titles, although strong growth is coming 
from all age groups.
Our websites now offer new features 
and regular updates that encourage our 
customers to shop on them for longer 
and more frequently. Style tips, catwalk 
videos, online exclusives, fully guided 
navigation and innovative email marketing 
campaigns are just some of the measures 
that have been implemented.
Our increasing penetration online is 
reflected in our market positioning in the 
key product categories as shown below:
Service
In the year we achieved our highest  
ever customer satisfaction levels, 
as measured by bi-annual service 
questionnaires that are circulated 
to	customers.	This	r eiterates	our	
commitment to reaching and sustaining 
the excellent standards that our 
customers expect from the company.
The	switch	of	par cel	delivery	fr om	
Hermes to Parcelnet was successfully 
accomplished this year and has led 
to faster delivery times. We now have 
an online order-tracking system which 
enables customers to check the progress 
of their order, reducing the number of 
enquiries by telephone.
During the year, we achieved an increase 
in average item value of 6% and, together 
with the higher average order values 
online, this has enabled better collation 
within our delivery packages, contributing 
to distribution costs reducing in total by 1%.
Moving forward we will continue to invest 
in improving the service we offer our 
customers, as well as ensuring we have 
capacity in place to manage the ongoing 
business growth.
International
We have traded successfully in Ireland 
for many years and in February 2009 
we made our first steps into mainland 
Europe, notably with the launch of Simply 
Be	in	Germany .	This	comprises	a	German	
language catalogue and transactional 
website. Marketing activity to recruit 
customers has commenced and we 
will monitor the results over the coming 
months.	The	decision	to	choose	Germany	
was due to the large potential customer 
base with similar physical dimensions to 
our UK customers and to its established 
home shopping infrastructure for contact 
centres and distribution. We will not be 
offering extended credit in this trial.
Additionally, we are trialling a version of 
our UK Simply Be website, but priced in 
euros, to a few European countries and 
plans are in place to extend this further. 
This	is	a	very	low-key	trial	at	pr esent	with	
minimal marketing expenditure.
We see expanding internationally as a 
significant potential opportunity. We have 
invested £1m in start up costs for this 
venture and anticipate a trading loss in 
2009/10 of a similar amount.
People
In 2008 we carried out an all employee 
satisfaction survey, with high response 
rates and positive results throughout the 
business. We are determined to maintain 
our strong corporate culture of focusing 
on results, embracing diversity and 
developing internal talent. 
In recognition of our commitment to 
Health and Safety we were awarded by 
The	Royal	Society	for	the	Pr evention	of	
Accidents, a ‘Gold Award’ in recognition 
of ‘Excellence in Safety Performance and 
Safety Management’. 
Outlook and Current Trading
The	continual	development	of	our	 
core business, the ongoing growth  
of e-commerce and the launch of our 
international trials have given us a strong 
platform to take into what is predicted 
to	be	a	difficult	year	ahead.	The	low	
fixed costs in our business mean we 
have a flexible business model which 
can be adjusted readily to reflect market  N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 11 12 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 
Chief Executive’s Review N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 13 14 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 
Chief Executive’s Review
conditions. Our focus on niche customer 
and product groups results in a high 
degree of customer loyalty and our 
customer profile with an average age  
of 56 has traditionally been more stable  
in economic downturns. 
We are encouraged that our sales for the 
8 weeks to 25 April 2009 on a like-for-
like basis are up by 6.1%, with a similar 
distribution amongst customer and 
pr oduct	gr oups	to	last	year .	The	gr oss	
margin rate is 1.2% lower than in this 
period last year, although we anticipate 
an improving trend in the second half of 
the	year .	The	outlook	is	uncertain	and	
we have been cautious in our budgeting 
preferring to wait until customer spending 
and payment patterns become more 
settled. A further challenge is the impact 
of sterling devaluation against other 
major	curr encies.	This	will	inevitably	lead	
to some pricing pressure in the autumn 
although we have hedged 85% of our 
direct dollar requirements for the next 
12 months at an average rate of $1.80  
to £1. However, purchases through import 
agents and branded manufacturers are 
more exposed to currency fluctuations, 
although we have been working hard 
throughout the supply chain to minimise 
the impact, with a reasonable degree 
of success. We are confident we will 
continue to offer our customers products 
at competitive prices.
The	development	of	our	e-commer ce	
platforms will continue in the year with 
further improvements to site functionality, 
including better display of product details 
and images to encourage higher order 
rates and retention, and also for account 
management, which will help customers 
resolve their queries online and reduce 
calls to our contact centres. We are 
constantly refining our visibility to search 
engines and experimenting with social 
media as part of our marketing activities. 
 
The	inter net	will	incr easingly	become	the	
dominant channel of choice from which 
our customers will order, but catalogues 
will remain a fundamental part of our 
model. However they will be progressively 
used to drive customers online, where a 
more extensive range of merchandise will 
be available, which will change frequently 
and increasingly have video content to 
demonstrate the features.
In light of the prevailing economic 
conditions we will manage overheads 
and cashflow extremely tightly whilst 
continuing to invest in the key strategic 
areas of e-commerce and the international 
trials. Our borrowing facilities of £320m 
are in place until 2012 at advantageous 
margins compared with prevailing rates 
and we plan to maintain our headroom 
ar ound	the	pr esent	levels.	This	will,	to	a	
large degree, be dependent on reducing 
the growth in debtors which we would 
expect with the actions we have taken. 
The	curr ent	rates	of	LIBOR	will	r educe	
our interest payable significantly which 
provides a natural hedge against any 
increase in defaults from our debtors.
2009 will be a challenging year but  
we have got off to a good start and the 
strength of our customer base, the ongoing 
growth from new titles and product 
ranges, and the opportunities afforded by 
e-commerce give us confidence that the 
business will continue to make progress.
Alan White
Chief Executive’s Review N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 15
JD WILLIAMS 2009 HL 749 XD MARISOTA 2009 00001 03400 (A)
JD WILLIAMS 2009 HL 749 XD  MARISOTA 2009 00001 03400 (A)
JACAMO 2009 BF 749 XD 0205
MARISOTA 2009 BF 749 XD 0205
SIMPL Y BE 2009 BF 749 XD 8435
SIMPL Y BE 2009 BF 749 XD 8435
SIMPL Y BE 2009 BF 749 XD 0205
SIMPL Y BE 2009 BF 749 XD 0205 16 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 
Chief Executive’s Review N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 17
