 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 10
Chief Executive’s Review
Revenue
These results have been achieved in a 
period when consumer confidence has 
been at very low levels so to deliver 
positive like-for-like growth is encouraging. 
It has required us to focus on the areas  
of our business with the highest growth 
potential and allocate the marketing 
investment accordingly. All of our  
brands have a very clear proposition  
and points of difference which  
encourages customer loyalty. 
In addition we have concentrated on 
driving sales through the online channel 
recognising that multi-channel customers 
spend more and cost less to service.  
We have continued the overseas expansion 
of Simply Be, launching in the USA in 
addition to our German operations. Finally, 
we have continued to rejuvenate High & 
Mighty and the acquisition of Figleaves 
in June 2010 has enhanced our strong 
position in the online lingerie market.
   £m % 
Financial Highlights  2011 Growth
Revenue  718.8  +4.2
Operating Profit  102.6  +5.1
Adjusted Pre-Tax Profit*  98.2  +5.5
Profit Before Tax  94.5  +10.3
Total Dividend Per Share  12.41p  +15.0
Adjusted Earnings Per Share*  27.02p  +9.1
Net Borrowings 180.9 +6.3
Net Assets  360.4  +13.0
*Excluding fair value adjustments to financial instruments
Record results for revenue and profits, the acquisition 
of Figleaves and the launch of Simply Be in the USA 
demonstrate that this has been another exciting and 
positive year for the group.
Revenue for the 52 weeks to 26 February 2011 is up by 
4.2% to £718.8m in total, and by 1.3% on a like-for-like 
basis, excluding the impact of the acquisition of  
High & Mighty and Figleaves. N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 11
Customer Groups
The younger brands, targeted at customers 
aged between 30 and 45 years of age 
continued to be the fastest growing part  
of the overall portfolio. Sales, including the 
first time contribution from Figleaves, were 
up by 11% to £240m, or 4% on a like-for-
like basis accounting for 33% of group 
sales. Simply Be reached revenues of 
£100m for the first time with growth in the 
UK and international markets. Jacamo 
offers a mix of branded and unbranded 
fashionable menswear, all in a very wide 
range of sizes through to 5XL, and was the 
fastest growing brand with total revenue 
up by 66%, backed by substantial 
expenditure on customer recruitment from 
television advertising and online search.  
A number of the younger brands, such  
as Fashion World, lost sales due to  
more conservative credit policies, which 
particularly impacted the higher-priced 
home and leisure products.
Sales from the mid-life brands, targeted 
at customers aged 45-65 grew by 2% 
to £431m, accounting for 60% of group 
sales. J D Williams, the traditional core of 
the business, had revenue slightly below 
last year but this was more than offset by 
good performances from the menswear 
brands, Premier Man and Williams & 
Brown, and growth of 16% in sales at 
House of Bath, which sells unusual home 
and garden items. Marisota continued its 
strong growth by attracting customers to 
its ladieswear and footwear ranges based 
on our expertise in sizing and fit, as well  
as fashionability, for the 45-plus woman. 
The older titles declined by 9% to £48m, 
although this now only represents 7% of 
group revenues. We switched much of the 
recruitment activity from Heather Valley, 
Special Collection and Nightingales to 
Julipa, which has a more comprehensive 
range of products. However the target 
customer is finding economic conditions 
tough and this age-group has been an 
underperforming part of the retail sector 
generally. Gray & Osbourn struggled in 
2010 for this same reason but finished  
the year on a high with encouraging results 
from the refreshed Spring 2011 catalogues.
Customer Base
We have a customer base of over 6m who 
have purchased at least once in the last 
two years. The sales per customer from 
the established customer base was up 
by a healthy 4%, a function of the sales 
mix favouring higher value clothing and 
footwear. The number of active established 
customers fell by 3% as we switched some 
of our marketing activity from reactivation 
of lapsed established customers to new 
customer recruitment, where the sales 
rose by 4%.
Product Categories
We have a very high number of stock 
options in order to accommodate  
women’s clothing from size 10 to 38, 
lingerie from A-L Cup and 34" to 58"  
back size, menswear from 38" to 70"  
chest measurements, and footwear in 
a vast array of width fittings as well as 
lengths, up to size 9 for ladies and 15 
for men. Our ability to have clothing and 
footwear to fit our customers, regardless  
of their size or shape, is a fundamental 
point of difference to our competitors. 
The range has been expanded even more 
this year as, using the online integration 
software we have developed internally, 
we have enabled our suppliers to upload 
a further 30,000 product lines onto our 
websites. All of these extra products are 
delivered directly by the supplier to the 
customer, giving incremental sales without 
increasing working capital.
  Revenue % of %
Category £m Total Change
Ladieswear 361 50 +1
Footwear 80 11 +10
Menswear 84 12 +25
Home & Leisure 194 27 –
Total 719 100 +4
Ladieswear sales have been mixed. 
Fashionable clothing for our younger 
customers, including our own brand fast 
fashion online collections and sportswear, 
has done well. Customers have opted to 
buy the exclusive branded or celebrity-
inspired ranges relative to the core  
lines. This suggests that customers  
are extending the replacement cycle on 
basic clothing, such as jeans, trousers, 
knitwear, outerwear and jersey tops, and 
concentrating their disposable income on 
pieces with an impact factor. Even within 
the basic categories the mix of sales has 
moved towards garments with unique 
features such as our “Magifit” control 
jeans, trousers and skirts. The situation 
was similar with lingerie sales. Figleaves 
saw like-for-like sales growth to the 
younger, more affluent customers but the 
sales of core basic bra packs were below 
last year’s level.
In contrast menswear sales were strong 
in all areas, recording a 25% increase in 
aggregate. The strongest growth was in 
the younger menswear and sportswear 
where sales were up over 40%, but even 
the core menswear range was up by 9%.
Footwear sales rose by 10%, with good 
growth in all areas. We saw exceptional 
growth in footwear sales from our younger 
brands as we expanded the range in 
response to the demands of our Simply  
Be customers. Men’s footwear has 
previously been under-represented in the 
mix of sales but is now growing rapidly.
Home and leisure sales were flat on last 
year. There were strong performances 
in gifts and homewares but the impact 
of asking for deposits on higher value 
furniture and electrical items reduced  
sales by £4m. The benefit of this policy  
is seen in the increased rate of gross 
margin from lower bad debts.
One of the notable features last year 
was the 7% increase in average selling 
prices. Whilst some of this is a function of 
increased prices from our suppliers in the 
Far East, much of it was due to the mix of 
sales favouring higher value lines. 
Group revenue up 4.2% to
£718.8m
Total dividend up 15% to
12.41p
Adjusted earnings per share  
up 9.1% to
27.02p N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 12
Online Sales
The value of sales transacted online 
totalled £324m, up by 19%, maintaining 
our position as one of the top online 
retailers. We are ranked number one online 
for ladies clothing in size 16 and above, 
for the 50-plus age group and for ladies 
underwear. One of our key corporate 
objectives last year was to drive up the 
proportion of online business as we 
achieve incremental sales and reduced 
operating costs. To this end we invested 
£10m in upgrading our online systems, the 
benefits of which will be realised over the 
next few years. For example we re-wrote 
the registration and checkout pages 
which resulted in increases in attributable 
conversion rates. In addition we have 
reorganised the buying and marketing 
functions to give greater emphasis to 
online trading relative to the catalogues.
Online sales now account for 45% of 
total revenues, compared with 39% last 
year, and they have overtaken the value of 
orders taken in our contact centres, with 
the balance coming by post. In the coming 
year we expect online sales to account 
for the majority of all sales. The growth 
is coming from all age groups but in the 
next few years we are aiming to grow the 
proportion of online sales from our mid-life 
customers, currently 37%, as the younger 
customers are already at 64%, including 
some brands which are almost at 80%.
Gross Margin and Credit
Credit is an important part of the offer to 
our customer, and the income of £195m 
(up 2.5%) derived from our debtor book 
accounts for 27% of total group revenues. 
Approximately two-thirds of sales are 
made by customers who use the credit 
facilities, although in customer numbers  
it is less than half.
Bad debts rose during the recession but 
the changes we made to credit policies 
on customer vetting, credit limits and 
collections in the wake of this increased 
default risk have been effective. In the 52 
weeks ended 26 February 2011 the charge 
for bad debts fell by £9.1m to £53.1m, 
reducing the net bad debt charge to 
sales ratio from 9.0% to 7.4%. Inevitably 
the credit restrictions have reduced 
sales growth but we believe the balance 
between risk and reward on the credit 
book is now about right.
The overall rate of gross margin is 53.8%, 
up from 52.5% last year. The bulk of this 
improvement is the result of the lower bad 
debt rate, although the margin on product 
is also slightly favourable despite a higher 
level of promotional activity in the sector 
from our competitors.
Supply Chain
The last year has been the most challenging 
our buying team has faced for many years. 
There has been a step change in the 
price of goods from the Far East, driven 
principally by a reduction in capacity in 
China, a 160% increase in the price of 
cotton during the year, and significant 
price rises in other raw materials, 
especially those linked to the price of 
oil such as polyester and acrylic fibres. 
This has led to a squeeze on capacity in 
markets, such as Bangladesh, as retailers 
looked for alternative, lower labour cost 
markets to offset the price rises. Some of 
the rises in commodity prices are cyclical 
and we expect to see the price of cotton 
moderate by 2012 but the changes in the 
labour markets are structural and signal 
the end of the regular deflation in clothing 
prices we have enjoyed for the last 15 
years. We have been doing everything 
we can to mitigate the price increases 
for our customers through negotiation 
with suppliers, moving between markets 
and garment re-engineering, but we still 
expect to see price increases of around 
9% in 2011. However we also expect to 
see customers continuing to focus their 
spending on the clothing lines which clearly 
make a fashion statement, which will 
favour branded, celebrity-designed and 
higher-priced ranges which will increase 
the average selling price even further.
We have finished the year with stock 
levels up 18.1% on last year, excluding 
the stock acquired for Figleaves. There 
was a conscious decision to bring Spring/
Summer 2011 stock in earlier than in 2010 
because of the volatility in the supply 
chain we experienced in the autumn, to 
ensure high levels of stock availability for 
customer orders. As commodity prices 
settle down we would expect a return to 
normal lead times.
Overheads
Costs have been contained at the previous 
year’s level with the exception of marketing 
costs where we spent 9% more to increase 
customer recruitment, promote Simply Be 
abroad, and support the growing brands 
like Jacamo and Marisota. Distribution 
costs benefited from higher average order 
values due to higher selling prices and the 
switch to online. We have moved all our 
parcel deliveries to Hermes resulting in 
improvements to both service and costs.
Customer Service
The vast majority of our key performance 
indicators were positive with improvement 
in the contact centres, online service 
and distribution. This was despite the 
disruption in December from the bad 
weather and the mailing delays to 
catalogues and statements experienced 
subsequently. We are now asking 
customers to submit product reviews 
online which will give us early indicators 
of any quality issues, but so far the vast 
majority of comments posted are highly 
complimentary. We will continue to focus 
on further improvements to the quality 
of our service and increasing the options 
available to our customers.
International
Our international strategy is based on 
utilising existing product lines and images 
from our Simply Be brand, and distributing 
Menswear sales up 25% to
84m
Sales from mid-life brands  
up 2% to
£431m
Younger customer sales up  
11% to
240m N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 13
direct to the overseas customer from our 
UK warehouses. This should allow us to 
break even by year 3 or 4 assuming we can 
recruit reasonable volumes of customers 
at an acceptable cost per customer.
Revenues from our Simply Be brand in 
Germany and the USA totalled £4.2m 
(2010, £2.4m), over 70% of which was 
transacted online. In Germany sales were 
up by 41% and we reduced the rate of 
returns by two percentage points but at 
61% it is still higher than we would like. 
The new season has started well and we 
anticipate a further increase in revenue, 
which, coupled with cost efficiencies,  
will reduce the losses this year.
We launched Simply Be in the USA 
through the distribution of 1 million 
catalogues to targeted customer lists 
during the autumn of 2010. Revenues in the 
USA were just under £1m, and the low rate 
of returns and high gross margin are both 
encouraging. Based on these early positive 
indications we are planning to despatch 
3 million catalogues in Summer 2011 and 
have started to increase the online activity. 
We will be accelerating our recruitment 
plans further in the autumn campaigns.
Acquisitions
Figleaves, the leading online lingerie 
retailer, was acquired in June 2010 for a 
net cash consideration of £10.3m. Since 
then we have achieved revenues of over 
£16m, a 4% like-for-like increase for 
the business, on which we incurred an 
underlying loss of £0.9m. The strategy  
is to build up the proportion of own brand 
sales from the current 17% level and 
to expand the product ranges offered 
to the customer, either through organic 
development or alternatively from those 
products already within the group.
High & Mighty was acquired out of 
administration in September 2009 for 
a consideration of £1.6m. Sales of over 
£7m and losses of £0.8m represented 
good progress for the first full year, with 
like-for-like store sales up by 8%. It was 
a busy year with three of the fourteen 
stores relocated, three more refurbished 
and three new stores opened in Liverpool, 
Newcastle and Belfast. We have migrated 
the website onto the N Brown platform  
and we are now seeing positive growth  
in online sales.
Outlook and Current Trading
We will continue with our strategy of 
focusing on our core home shopping 
business in the UK whilst establishing the 
Simply Be brand in the USA and Germany 
and turning Figleaves and High & Mighty 
into profitable businesses. The combination 
of lower disposable incomes and cost 
inflation will put consumer spending under 
severe pressure, but we believe our 
strategy of focusing on niche customer 
and product groups, coupled with our 
credit offer, is the right one.
Within the core business we expect to see 
continued high growth rates from Marisota 
and Jacamo, and we have launched a new 
brand, Fabrici, which offers a range of 
clothes with natural fibres, such as linen 
and silk, at higher price points. We will 
again be working with a number of 
celebrities and designers on capsule 
ranges, including an expanded range  
from Arlene Phillips. 
E-commerce remains fundamental to  
the growth of the business and we will  
be continuing our investment program  
to upgrade and exploit the online platform. 
We will complete the new content 
management system by the summer  
which will provide a platform for greater 
personalisation of the websites in  
the future as well as speeding up the 
publication of new offers, products  
and promotions. 
N Brown Group’s extensive portfolio of 
brands, allied with the credit offer, means 
it is a complex business to manage. 
However, we have a loyal and experienced 
management and workforce, and everyone 
who works in the business can take 
immense credit for producing increased 
revenues and profits for a seventh 
consecutive year, despite the unhelpful 
economic environment. The current year 
will be at least as challenging but I am 
confident that our strategy will develop 
new areas for future growth and deliver 
another good result.
Alan White
Online sales up 19% to
£324m
Ladieswear sales up 1% to
£361m
Footwear sales up 10% to
£80m
