 Chief Executive’s Review
We have emerged from a challenging year with record 
results for both revenue and earnings, strong cash 
generation and a healthy balance sheet which has  
enabled the board to recommend a substantial increase  
in the dividend for the year.
For the 52 weeks to 27 February 2010 total revenue  
was £690.0m, up by 4.2% from the previous year and  
by 3.3% on a like-for-like basis after adjusting for our  
new international trial in Germany and the acquisition  
of High & Mighty in September 2009.
Revenue
We have continued to focus on our core 
strengths of targeting niche customer 
groups and delivering relevant products 
with an emphasis on the correct size and 
fit, which is reflected in the growth across 
almost all of the group’s core product and 
customer categories.
Both our established and newer brands 
have generated revenue growth and there 
has been a further increase in online sales 
as a result of the continued focus and 
investment in e-commerce. In addition we 
have developed our international business 
with the successful launch of our Simply 
Be website and catalogue in Germany.
In a competitive retail market customer 
loyalty is more precious than ever and so 
I am delighted we have achieved record 
levels of customer satisfaction through 
ongoing improvements to our service offer.
   £m % vs. 
Financial Highlights  2009/10 2008/9
Revenue  690.0  +4.2
Operating Profit  97.6  +2.2
Adjusted Pre-Tax Profit *  93.1  +12.6
Profit Before Tax  85.7  –7.2
Total Dividend Per Share  10.79p  +17.4
Adjusted Earnings Per Share **  24.77p  +12.8
Net Borrowings  170.1  –22.1
Net Assets  319.0  +12.7
* Excluding fair value adjustments to financial instruments. ** See Note 11 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 7
Customer Groups
We are recruiting customers to more than 
20 of the brands in our portfolio, each of 
which has its own distinct target customer 
profile and product offer. Our brands are 
grouped into three age ranges:
•  Younger – targeting customers  
aged 30-45 years
•  Midlife – targeting customers  
aged 45-65 years
•  Older – targeting customers  
aged 65 years and above.
Younger
In line with our strategy, the younger 
customer group has yet again experienced 
the fastest growth, with sales up 8% to 
£216m. Simply Be has delivered another 
good performance, and it remains our 
largest title within this category, delivering 
fashionable clothing up to size 32 to 
women in their 30’s. Simply Be’s sales 
include £2.4m of revenues from our 
German language catalogue and website. 
Operationally the launch in Germany 
has gone extremely smoothly, and the 
product offer has been welcomed by the 
customers there. Our younger menswear 
title, Jacamo, one of our newer brands, has 
doubled its sales in the year, over 70% of 
them transacted online. Jacamo’s results 
have been driven by an expanded range 
of branded clothing and footwear, with the 
larger sizes up to 66” chest and 64” waist 
usually being supplied exclusively to us.
Midlife
The midlife group of customers had  
sales of £421m that grew by 4% during  
the year. Our established brands, such as  
J D Williams, Ambrose Wilson, Fifty Plus 
and Oxendales, continued to provide the 
majority of sales in this category, although 
the strongest growth came from another 
one of our newer brands, Marisota. Its 
offer of contemporary fashion designed to 
fit real women has proved to be popular 
and over the last year its sales have 
increased by 83%. Our menswear brand 
Premier Man achieved a 9% increase 
in sales, as we switched the focus of 
marketing directly to the male customer 
himself rather than his female partner.
In September 2009 we acquired the brand 
and certain assets of High & Mighty, an 
upmarket menswear retailer in the big 
and tall niche, from the administrator for 
a consideration of £1.6m, and we are 
delighted with the progress so far. The 
brand recognition is extremely high and we 
will develop the website and catalogues 
as complementary to the 14-strong store 
portfolio.
Older
The older customer group saw a 5% 
decrease in sales to £53m in line with the 
performance of the ladieswear market in 
the UK. During the year we launched Julipa 
to provide a more substantial offering for 
the over 65 age group, comprised of all the 
suitable product lines which were already 
featured in other group catalogues. The 
results have been encouraging so far, and 
it will be further developed in 2010.
Customer Database
The number of our established customers 
who ordered during the year increased by 
2% and the spend per customer also rose 
by 2%. Part of our conservative stance in 
2009 was to hold the level of recruitment 
expenditure at the same level as in the 
previous year, as new customers have a 
higher credit risk. The change to the mix of 
recruitment between the different brands 
has resulted in slightly lower sales per new 
customer.
Product Categories
One of the key tenets of our business is 
the provision of an extensive range of 
products, with a high number of options 
around size, colour, length and fit. By 
storing over 150,000 options in just two 
distribution centres we are able to service 
demand for products even where the 
rate of sale is low. We have significantly 
expanded the number of product lines to 
our customers exclusively on the internet, 
which is the main reason for a 50% 
increase in total compared with last year.
Category Revenue £m % Growth
Ladieswear 356 1
Footwear 73 9
Menswear 67 17
Home & Leisure 194 4
Total 690 4
Ladies underwear and outerwear account 
for 52% of our total sales. We offer an 
extensive range of sizes, which go up to 
a size 38 with a large proportion available 
in multiple length options. Over half of our 
ladieswear sales are in sizes 20 and above, 
sizes which are hard to find on the high 
street. We have continued to see growth  
in our younger titles and hence remain 
focused on providing a fashionable  
offer with the availability of designer  
and branded ranges.
As a result, we have worked with designers 
such as Caryn Franklin, Anna Sholtz and 
Jeffrey Rogers, as well as celebrities such 
as Mica Paris to promote our products.  
We continue to work with fashion celebrity 
Gok Wan, who designs a range of 
shapewear exclusively for our Simply  
Yours lingerie brand, maintaining our  
focus on providing fashionable lingerie  
for women in an extensive range of sizes.
Menswear is a strategic area of focus  
which has grown rapidly with sales up 
17% to £67m. This has been driven by 
the success of our Jacamo brand and 
the expansion of our menswear offer 
in Premier Man. Contributing to the 
success of both these menswear brands 
has been the ability to persuade more 
branded suppliers to produce garments 
in larger sizes, up to 66” chest and 64” 
waist, exclusively for our customers. The 
acquisition of High & Mighty adds to our 
strength in this area with its upmarket 
brands such as Ralph Lauren Polo, Animal 
and Paul & Shark as well as a range of 
casual and formal wear. Menswear now 
accounts for 10% of our total sales, but 
it is still under-represented relative to 
womenswear revenues and therefore  
there is still scope for significant growth  
in the future.
Group revenue up 4.2% to
£690.0m
Total dividend up 17.4% to
10.79p
Adjusted earnings per share  
up 12.8% to
24.77p Chief Executive’s Review
PUSHING
OUR BRANDS
FORWARD 
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 8 When it comes to our newer brands, the star 
performers have been Marisota and Jacamo 
expanding our customer base by targeting the 
woman in her 50’s who wants solutions to her 
clothing and footwear problems and the men 
in their 30’s who want branded clothing in 
bigger sizes. Product innovations such as the 
UK’s largest strapless bra have contributed 
to their strong performance. Launched in 
early 2009, Julipa, our 65+ flagship, has also 
attracted new customers with its new look 
and nine-shops-in-one catalogue.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 9 FIT. WHATEVER
YOUR SHAPE.
We’ve boosted our longstanding  
expertise in fit. The new magi-fit  
fashion and miraclesuit swimwear  
ranges have been popular and we’ve 
introduced even more sizes, including 
women’s shoes up to a 10 and our 
legroom boots in 4 calf widths. We’ve 
also introduced personal style advice 
via fashion stylists Carol Spencer and 
Joy Wilson, shape guides and outfit 
recommendations plus an online 
personalised guide for customers.
10 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s Review N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 11
We remain the market leader for wider 
fitting footwear. We also provide a multi-fit 
range for customers with oddshaped feet 
and offer ladies boots with various calf and 
ankle fittings, emphasising our devotion 
to satisfying our customers whatever their 
shape or size. This year footwear sales 
increased by 9% with the fastest growth 
coming from the range developed for 
our younger customers. We have also 
produced some of our best selling styles 
in standard width fittings recognising that 
some of our ladieswear customers will not 
necessarily require wider fitting footwear.
Home and leisure sales have grown  
by 4%, accounting for 28% of total sales.  
Our Christmas Gifts catalogues were 
extremely successful and led to strong 
growth in the sales of gifts and toys, 
ranges which had been expanded in 
response to customer feedback. Sales of 
electrical products grew by 10% despite 
the tougher criteria we applied to our  
credit accounts to reduce the risk of  
bad debts on higher value products.
We have worked with selected suppliers 
to enable them to upload products 
directly onto our websites, enabling far 
more extensive ranges online than had 
previously been possible with products 
such as DVDs , computer games, 
plants and rugs as part of an ongoing 
programme.
An important part of our strategy is to 
encourage our customers to shop across 
our various product ranges. A key measure 
of this is the proportion of customers who 
purchase items during the year from each 
of the ladies clothing, underwear and 
footwear ranges. These customers not 
only spend more but also show a higher 
level of repeat purchasing. We are now 
expanding this concept to work across all 
of our ranges through active cross-selling 
programmes.
E-commerce
With online sales of £272m last year up 
by 21%, we remain one of the top online 
retailers in the UK overall and number one 
for ladies clothing in size 16 and above and 
for ladies underwear sold over the internet.
The internet is becoming increasingly 
popular with customers as they become 
more confident in shopping online and 
with a strong pipeline of initiatives and 
systems development, we are well placed 
to continue to hold our position as a 
market leader. Average order values online 
are over 20% higher than for orders placed 
through other channels, which is due to 
the wider selection of product available 
on our websites and the ease with which 
customers can search and browse our 
entire offering.
Online sales now account for 39% of  
total sales compared with 34% the 
previous year. The internet is at the  
centre of all our business development.  
We are encouraging more of our existing 
customers to transact online, the  
newer brands all have over 50%  
online participation and the number  
of product lines exclusive to the  
internet has grown dramatically.
Gross Margin and Credit
The group’s gross margin is a complex 
combination of different product and 
customer segments, including the financial 
income and bad debts arising from the 
sales on credit. The overall rate of gross 
margin declined by 0.7%, with a fall of 
1.6% in the first half offset by a 0.1% 
improvement in the second half.
The rate of gross margin on product sales 
has been ahead of the prior year, partly 
due to a lower level of dormant stock 
to be cleared. The policy to reduce our 
stock levels during the recession has 
been vindicated, and at the year end our 
inventories were 10.6% lower than the 
previous year at £62.4m.
We have implemented a number of 
changes to our credit policy during the 
year, raising the threshold for new account 
applications, changing payment terms and 
selectively restricting credit availability, 
particularly for high value items ordered by 
our younger customers. The consequence 
of these actions has been to reduce 
sales growth but it has also reduced the 
bad debt charge since implementation, 
resulting in an improving trend with a lower 
bad debt rate in the second half than the 
first half. This trend has continued into the 
current year.
Overheads
Stringent cost control, process 
improvements and the greater penetration 
of online sales have restricted the 
increase in our distribution, selling 
and administrative costs to just 2.9%. 
Distribution costs benefited from a 3% 
increase in the average item value, due 
to the mix of sales, and the key ratio of 
marketing costs to revenue improved 
through procurement savings.
Customer Service
We have put an even stronger emphasis  
on great customer service this year to 
ensure our customers have no reasons 
to defect to our competitors, especially 
as there has been an increased level 
of discounting and promotions in retail 
generally. Our twice yearly survey 
demonstrated our success in this aim with 
the record level of satisfaction achieved 
since the survey began in 1996. This has 
been delivered by improvements in the 
supply chain, faster delivery of parcels, 
enhanced customer service as well as 
favourable reviews for product quality 
and the choice and visual appeal of the 
catalogues and websites.
Balance Sheet
The group has ended the year with a 
12.7% increase in net assets to £319.0m 
and net borrowings which are down 
£48.2m to £170.1m, reducing gearing from 
77% to 53%. The principal reasons for the 
cash inflow are the significant reductions 
in working capital (arising from only a small 
increase in trade receivables compared 
with the prior year and lower stock levels) 
and capital expenditure.
Menswear sales up
17%
Sales from mid-life brands  
up 4% to
£421m
Younger customer sales up
8% A BASk ETFUl  
OF SAl ES
Online sales have grown strongly again this year and  
now account for 39% of sales. We’ve continued to 
innovate, with internet exclusives, online catwalks and 
personalised styling on our websites, as well as making 
the sites easier to use by improved contact management, 
registration, checkout and customer feedback.  
The exploitation of social media and active cross-selling 
promotions have also enhanced this growth.
12 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s Review 13 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 14
Chief Executive’s Review
Outlook and Current Trading
The outlook for the UK economy 
over the next year remains uncertain, 
whatever the outcome of the general 
election, as increased taxation and 
reduced public expenditure are bound to 
impact disposable incomes. In addition 
inflationary pressure will impact input 
prices due to the weakness of sterling and 
high commodity costs. N Brown Group, 
however, is well placed to continue its 
growth with our flexible business model 
allowing us to adapt quickly to changing 
market conditions. In addition, our strategy 
of focusing on niche customer and 
product groups results in strong customer 
loyalty and our increasing strength within 
e-commerce gives us a strong base with 
which to enter the year ahead.
We have already had a positive start to 
the year, with sales for the 8 weeks to 24 
April 2010 up by 4.1% in total, and 3.1% on 
a like-for-like basis. Online sales continue 
their strong growth and now account for 
over 40% of all sales.
We continue to see development 
opportunities in our core business focusing 
on maximising our existing customer 
relationships as well as launching new 
brands. These include Williams and Brown, 
targeted at the classic, but contemporary, 
fifty year old man, and That’s My Style a 
more contemporary brand name which 
we believe will be attractive to 60-year 
old women who want clothing solutions 
but who have not traditionally been home 
shopping customers. Early signs for these 
new brands are positive. We will continue 
to invest across our brand portfolio and 
expect to see continued high growth from 
Marisota and Jacamo in particular.
Similarly we are using more well known 
brands and celebrities to expand our 
product offer at the higher price points. In 
2010 we will be working with Joe Calzaghe, 
who will endorse the Jacamo range, and 
Arlene Phillips, who has designed a range 
for Marisota which will also be syndicated 
to other midlife brands.
E-commerce is at the heart of our 
revenue growth in the next few years, 
and we have major projects in progress 
to improve content management, 
registration, checkout and customer 
feedback. In addition there is a rolling 
program of tactical trading initiatives from 
the exploitation of social media to active 
cross-selling promotions.
This year will also see further expansion 
in our international offering. Following 
on from our trials in Germany, we will be 
launching Simply Be in the USA in late 
summer 2010 with a fully transactional 
website and catalogue offer. The plus 
size market in the USA is estimated to be 
worth $35bn and we believe a gap exists 
for a younger, fashion focused offer. We 
will service the orders from our UK base 
which significantly reduces the cost of the 
launch.
Having nursed the High & Mighty business 
through the immediate post-administration 
phase we are now looking to develop it 
positively. In 2010 we will look to open 
up to three new stores and relocate 
or refurbish at least another six of the 
fourteen stores we acquired. The product 
synergies within our total menswear range 
are being selectively exploited and we 
have started to produce catalogues which 
can be actioned through the stores, call 
centre or High & Mighty website, with the 
latter migrating to our internet platform this 
summer.
The performance of the group last year 
is a result of the expertise, creativity and 
endeavour of everyone who works at  
N Brown Group, and on behalf of the 
directors I cannot praise them enough 
for their efforts in guiding the business 
through a difficult external environment.
Online sales up 21% to
£272m
Footwear sales up
9%
Ladieswear sales up 1% to
£356m
The current year will be no less challenging 
but if we maintain the focus on our 
niche customers and products, develop 
our online activities and progress our 
international trials I am sure we will enjoy 
another good year.
Alan White In September 2009 we acquired the 
retail chain, High & Mighty, for £1.6m 
taking 14 stores and the website.  
It offers significant growth potential  
and the opportunity to experiment  
with multi-channel retailing with high 
street stores and also exposure to the 
big and tall upmarket menswear market. 
We plan to triple sales and add stores in 
key cities.
HIGHER
STREET
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 15 Chief Executive’s Review
TAk ING OFF  
OVERSEAS
The launch of Simply Be into Germany marked our next step  
into international markets, building on our long-established 
business in Ireland. Exporting an already successful range has 
efficiently gained us a foothold in a new territory and paved the 
way for our American launch later this year, looking for a share  
of the $35 billion plus size market.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 16 STAR QUAl ITY
This year we’ve further exploited celebrity connections.  
Mica Paris with her latest trends fashion range, Joe Calzaghe  
endorsing the Jacamo brand and Gok Wan designing a lingerie  
range in partnership with us have all been a huge success.  
In addition, unique partnerships with well-known labels, such  
as Gossard, Helly Hansen and Sergio Tacchini, who supply  
larger sizes exclusively to us and enhance our range.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 17
