  Chief Executive’s Review
Delivering Growth 
across all our Customer 
Segments & Product 
Categories 
Our consistent performance in terms of revenue growth 
has been delivered again this year with like-for-like sales 
up 6.3% and total group turnover up 6.4% to £834.9m. 
Our strategic initiatives of Simply Be and Jacamo store 
roll-out and our expansion into the USA have added to 
our momentum. However, in absolute terms the biggest 
drivers of growth were our young female and male 
consumer segments which delivered £23m and £16m  
of revenue growth respectively.
bought for the Autumn/Winter season. 
Sales for the full year were diluted by 
a flat performance from some large 
categories in mid-life ladies fashion 
– casuals, knitwear and outerwear. 
That said, we grew share in our key 
categories of mens and ladies plus  
size clothing.
In the mature female segment we saw 
good growth in our main in-house 
ladieswear brand Joanna Hope (+7%). 
In younger female clothing, Fast 
Fashion ranges sold extremely well 
(+46%). The brand Joe Browns was 
also a strong performer up 20%. 
 Revenue % of  % 
 £m Total Change
Ladieswear 372 45 +3
Footwear 92 11 +10
Menswear 108 13 +5
Home & Gift 263 31 +12
Total 835 100 +6
In traditional menswear, which 
accounts for over 50% of sales, 
performance was diluted with the 
category only up 4% on the year. 
Younger ranges were stronger, up 8%.
It is pleasing to report that all consumer 
segments delivered growth in the year.
In the mature segment classic fashion 
brand Julipa was the star performer 
up nearly 30% vs. last year. House 
of Bath was also strong at over 25% 
ahead year on year. It is encouraging 
to see a return to growth in JD 
Williams, however, at just 1% ahead 
we see this as an opportunity.
In the younger female segment Simply 
Be performed strongly, up 9% year on 
year and in the male segment Jacamo 
was a stand-out performer, up 21%.
 Revenue % of  % 
 £m Total Change
Mature Female 364 44 +3
Young Female 277 33 +9
Male 140 17 +13
Specialist 54 6 +2
Total 835 100 +6
All product categories also grew in the 
year with the best performance coming 
from Home & Gift and Footwear. 
Clothing sales were impacted in the 
second half by the very mild weather 
which affected the sales of product  13 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Attracting and Delighting  
More Customers
Our active customer file has increased 
to seven million, which is up 3.7%  
year on year and reflects sustained 
investment in recruitment with  
24% of demand coming from new 
customers. Our investment is also 
reflected in customer retention noting 
that the most effective recruitment 
channel is online marketing, including 
paid search.
We actively track the long term value 
of all our customers and take this  
back to the type of recruitment activity 
that first enticed them to order – this 
allows us to optimise spend for long 
term profitability.
Continued development of a tailored, 
segmental marketing strategy is 
clearly enabling growth through more 
targeted and relevant communications, 
and this will develop further as we 
combine analytics with online tools  
to deliver real time personalisation.
Improving the shopping experience 
for our customers is a key focus for 
the business as it correlates so closely 
with commercial success. In the 
multi-channel world this requires us 
to measure ourselves and track our 
performance across many dimensions 
including the web experience, in-store 
service, size availability, the speed  
and reliability of our delivery service 
and overall value for money.  
Our latest aggregate score from the 
UK Institute of Customer Service gives 
us a satisfaction index of 84.1 which 
puts us in the top five of UK multi-
channel retailers and well above the 
overall index of 77 .9.
During the year we have made 
numerous improvements to our overall 
service proposition for customers.  
For example: we have virtually halved 
our web page load speeds, making us 
industry leading in this regard; we have 
simplified and improved the check-
out process; we have introduced a 
“Click and Collect” service from 3,000 
parcel shops across the country; we 
have provided mobile tablet devices 
to store colleagues in our new stores 
allowing them to better serve our in-
store customers; we have significantly 
improved our next day service which 
now offers an 8pm cut-off and 
accounts for over 28% of demand, 
at the same time standard delivery 
service has improved to 3.2 days on 
average. We will continue to drive 
service improvements and track our 
progress on customer satisfaction.
Developing our Multichannel 
Capabilities
Online sales now account for 58% of 
overall demand. This is up from 55% 
last year. The shift in our marketing 
spend reflects the growing appeal 
and influence of digital marketing 
techniques with customers across  
all our consumer segments. In the  
year we have reduced spend on  
paper from 33% to 25% of our  
overall marketing budget and diverted 
investment into online recruitment and 
retention activities. We have increased 
our emails by 70% year on year and 
the open rate of promotional emails 
has increased by 8%.
These are targeted emails based 
on customer product preferences 
and lifestyles. These highly targeted 
campaigns are driven from analytics 
Home and gift sales have been 
bolstered by improvements in the 
housing market with Homewares 
and Furniture being strong growth 
categories, as was gifting, where 
demand was up 27% year on year. 
The House of Bath brand within 
Home also performed well in the year, 
up 25%. As a result of credit policy 
changes, Home & Gift sales though 
strong, were £9 million lower as a 
consequence. 
In ladies footwear younger styles  
were strongest, up 20% year on year.  
We were particularly successful in 
wide calf fitting boots. Men’s footwear 
grew by 16%, with most growth 
coming from Jacamo customers.
Gross Margin and Credit
The overall gross margin rate for the 
year was down 30bps year on year. 
This is a marked improvement on 
the first half where margin was down 
80bps. Product margin was down 
20bps, impacted by the sales mix in 
favour of Home & Gift and diluted in 
the second half by a higher rate of 
markdown and promotional activity 
to support sales and sell-through 
following a weather related poor  
start to the autumn/winter season.
The ratio of bad debt to sales was 
8.1% for the year, which was in line 
with last year. However, this reduced 
from 8.8% in the first half to 7 .5% in 
the second half. This reflected our 
product related credit policy changes 
impacting high risk, low margin home 
& gift categories such as high value 
electricals and electronics. We expect 
future sales and margin benefits to 
flow from these changes.
Top 5
in UK retail 
for customer 
satisfaction
Over 25% 
increase
in demand using   
next day delivery
Biggest 
choice
for size 20+ 
in UK fashion N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 14
 Chief Executive’s Review
40% of  
web traffic
coming from  
mobile devices
and are all device optimised which is driving the  
improved customer response.
The migration of our business to the online channel is  
being fuelled by the growth in traffic from mobile devices. 
This now accounts for 40% of web traffic with over half of 
that coming from tablets. During the year we optimised our 
websites for tablet devices and smartphones. As a result 
of improvements our conversion levels by device have 
increased year on year. 
Device % of traffic converting to demand
 2013 2014
Desktop 7.1 7.9
Tablet 4.5 5.0
Smartphone 3.5 3.6
We have also improved search and navigation across 
sites and increased our online selling capabilities through 
product sequencing flexibility, improved affinity selling and 
extended personalised recommendation capabilities.  
We have also enhanced the online user experience with 
more frequent and relevant content changes and richer 
images, making our sites more interesting and inspiring  
for customers to browse. 
Ahead of our systems upgrade which is discussed  
further below, we continue to invest in improving our  
web proposition. In 2014 we plan to further improve copy 
and images, develop our product recommendation and 
personalisation tools plus make the customer checkout 
journey even simpler. 
Implementing our Strategy
The fourth quarter has seen us begin to implement 
elements of our strategy which underpin our ambition to be: 
“The leading global retailer famous for making shopping for 
fashion easy and enjoyable regardless of size.”
Pay by Debit/Credit Card
In February we introduced the option for customers to 
pay at point of order by debit or credit card, an important 
step in broadening our customer appeal and making our 
proposition more contemporary. It is too soon to conclude 
on the impact of this however early evidence reinforces 
expectations that this will introduce incremental customers 
to the business.
To be the leading gobal retailer 
famous for making shopping for fashion easy 
and enjoyable, regardless of size
Multi-Channel
experience
Expert
Data rich,
fashion fit
specialist
Targeted,
relevant
brands
Engaging Easy Enjoyable
International
expansion
Industry leading 
capabilities
and efficiencies
Multi-Channel
one-stop-shop
with credit 
option
Inspirational
presentation,
personalised
advice
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
% Sessions
Marketing Season
2010 2011 2012 2013
% Mobile Sessions % Tablet Sessions % Desktop Sessions 15 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
40% of  
web traffic
coming from  
mobile devices
“Famous Five” in Home & Gift
Since last October we have been implementing our 
“Famous Five” strategy in our Home & Gift categories 
focusing our marketing efforts on categories which are 
differentiated and most relevant to our target customers: 
Homewares, Bedding, Home Decor, Outdoor Living and 
Gifts. These actions have driven additional sales of the 
Famous Five categories. Over the course of the next 
financial year we are confident that sales will be further 
fuelled by these target categories. We are seeing 
particularly strong momentum in homewares and  
family gifts.
Re-launch of JD Williams
Delivering growth from our core brand of JD Williams, and 
its sister titles in the mature customer segment, is key to 
achieving our future growth ambitions. This is particularly 
dependent on our mature female fashion offer, which is the 
biggest segment of our business. All consumer dynamics 
emphasise this strategic opportunity – an aging population, 
increasing dress sizes and a growing propensity for fashion 
home shopping. During the second half we have reduced 
the line-up of titles from seven to three with further migration 
to come in the first half of 2014. This should ensure that 
when we re-launch the JD Williams brand in the autumn, 
we can focus our advertising on one key brand with a 
primary objective to attract new customers, whilst retaining 
the loyalty of our existing large base.
The project to make the brand more contemporary in terms 
of the product range and presentation is well underway. 
The improvements will also reflect in adjusted stock phasing 
to improve the percentage of newness throughout the 
season. For launch we will also be adjusting the range/price 
mix to improve value for money for customers. The initiative 
will be supported by an investment in marketing, both direct 
response to drive increases in new customer numbers, and 
also in brand awareness to establish longer term health of 
JD Williams and attract a broader range of customers.
International – USA
In terms of the year’s performance, customer numbers 
grew by 28% in spite of a reduction in recruitment activity 
between August and November. This was due to poor 
second order rates in the first half which we addressed by 
making service improvements, including tracked shipping, 
which launched in November. Since then second order 
rates have improved by 10% and are rising and we have 
resumed a faster rate of customer recruitment. Full year 
sales were up 21% year on year.
We have adjusted our strategy to exclusively focus on the 
“fashion focused larger sized female” in the US market 
using our Simply Be brand. We estimate that this market 
is worth $6bn and is currently poorly served. Our Simply 
Be plan for the USA is to tailor our ranges to that target 
audience, invest some of our strong product margin in 
better pricing and promotions and deliver on-going  
service and web experience improvements. 
Our marketing focus is also shifting to “digital first” and we 
are also planning above the line campaigns to drive brand 
awareness. Customer retention will be underpinned by 
introducing a credit offer which also has an in-built loyalty 
scheme offering unique savings. This will be delivered via 
a third party, and will launch later in the summer. The new 
team to drive this key strategic initiative is now largely in 
place and operational.
Due to unfavourable economics associated with returns 
levels in Germany in the second half we took the decision 
to close the German website. German customers can still 
shop from the UK website. The sales impact was small, 
around £1.2m for the year, as we have not been marketing 
in Germany for over 12 months. As a result, Germany broke 
even for the year. 
Simply Be & Jacamo Stores as Multi-channel Hubs
Our aim is to have 25 stores across the UK giving 85%  
of the population physical access to our Jacamo and 
Simply Be brands. We now have nine stores having opened 
a further two this year, in Leeds and Derby, both of which 
are performing in line with model expectations.
Our stores have a rich set of multi-channel capabilities 
including Click & Collect, in-store kiosks, and tablet- 
enabled service support from our colleagues. We are  
also successfully signing up customers for credit accounts,  
data capture shows that store customers go on to be  
multi-channel customers and are our most profitable group.  
The halo effect on online sales in store catchments is 5%.
We plan to open a further seven stores by October which 
includes a flagship store on Oxford Street in September.
Systems Infrastructure Development
Over the past year we have been scoping a business-wide 
project to redesign our processes and supporting systems 
infrastructure to ensure we can deliver industry leading 
services and operational efficiencies both now and in the 
future. We have selected products and partners to facilitate 
this and have now moved into high level design phase.  
We are simplifying our business and creating the 
foundations for omni-channel, multi-national expansion 
whilst retaining our product and brand propositions which 
we believe are relevant and scalable. We have identified 
significant benefits from both increased revenues and 
reduced costs and expect those to flow from 2016.
Angela Spindler
