 Strategic report Annual report and accounts 2014
NAHL Group plc 10
Business model in action
connecting
consumers and solicitors seamlessly
On average our PLFs 
rate NAH as nine out of 
ten for our consultancy 
and performance audit 
services
2
.
9/10
In 2014 NAH connected around 83,000 
consumers to our panel of 50 specialist law 
firms across the UK. Our PLFs cover all areas 
of PI claims and are selected based on their 
ability to deliver quality advice and 
outcomes for consumers and abide by a 
rigorous Service Level Agreement. It is vital 
to the NAH brand that from the first call to 
case conclusion the consumer experience is a 
positive one. We conduct regular audits of 
our PLFs and share best practice to ensure we 
achieve this important goal.
Our research confirms that many consumers are not 
comfortable dealing directly with a solicitor, (only 22%
1
 
choose to contact a solicitor when initially considering 
making a claim). The NAH brand provides consumers 
with the confidence and reassurance that they will be 
given the appropriate support and advice from the 
outset, without the worry of dealing with legal jargon 
or hidden fees.
Satisfied solicitor
“We started working with NAH in 1995. They understand 
consumers’ needs and have built a brand which consumers 
trust. Their Legal Services Advisors are very effective in 
filtering calls to ensure we receive quality enquiries from 
genuine claimants. Their solicitor services help our firm to 
process claims efficiently and profitably, and importantly, 
improve the experience for the claimant.
They lobby government effectively and actively champion 
the cause of the underdog with campaigns such as Stop 
Nuisance Calls. They are truly passionate about delivering a 
positive consumer experience and conduct regular solicitor 
firm audits and share best practice among the Panel Law 
Firms. We find their approach innovative and professional 
and enjoy working together to deliver access to justice to our 
consumers.”
David Byrne
Partner, Scott Rees & Co Solicitors
1  Source: Independent research, The Nursery, 2014
2  Source: Average of survey results following NAH visits, 2014 Strategic report Annual report and accounts 2014
NAHL Group plc 11
connecting
Once their enquiry is qualified, 95% of 
consumers choose to be transferred 
immediately to a solicitor using our direct 
call transfer technology. This supports  
case conversion and delivers a better 
consumer experience.
50
NAH works with 50 of the leading PI law 
firms in the country, more than half of 
which we have partnered with for over  
ten years.
95% 
direct call
transfers
As a market leader with years of experience 
and a robust business model, solicitor firms 
are keen to work with us. Our scale and 
marketing expertise means we are able to 
deliver the certainty of consistent volumes 
of the right mix of enquiries. This 
supports our PLFs to optimise 
business performance by effectively 
planning budgets and resource 
and managing growth in a 
sustainable way. PLFs also use 
services from NAH such as 
ATE insurance and medical 
assessments which help 
them to run cases 
effectively, providing an 
additional revenue stream 
for NAH. 
NAH’s national solicitor network comprises four 
panels:
Personal Injury Panel: covering employment liability, occupier liability, 
public liability and RTA cases.
Medical Negligence Panel: covering medical negligence cases which are 
more complex and specialised.
Specialist Panel: covering a number of different enquiry types which fall 
outside the other panels, such as industrial disease and international cases.
Associate Panel: this panel does not take enquiries from NAH, but takes 
products such as ATE insurance. 
Katy Philpin
Contact Centre Team Manager NAHL Group plc 12
Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report
We have achieved positive results in  
a period of considerable change for the 
business. We have made good progress 
with our growth strategy, supported  
by our first acquisition.
We have made positive progress  
in 2014 and despite our leadership 
position, the Group has plenty of 
opportunity to increase our share  
in a large, fragmented market.
Chief 
Executive’s 
review
Overview
2014 was an important year for NAHL as we 
took the step to become a quoted company. 
Throughout the year trading remained 
strong and we are delighted to report results 
ahead of market expectations. The growth 
achieved is testimony to the professionalism 
of our team and the continued support that 
we receive from our consumers, our PLFs and 
our partners.
The PI market has undoubtedly gone through 
a period of dramatic change in the last few 
years. The new regulatory regime is now 
well embedded. NAH goes from strength to 
strength on the back of a single minded 
approach to serving our PLFs and retaining 
our position as the UK’s leading consumer 
business in the PI market. Our focus on 
quality and our passion for providing access 
to justice for those with a valid injury claim 
remains at the core of our proposition.
Results
For the past 20 years we have been 
committed to our ethical approach in a 
challenging sector. 2014 saw a significant 
growth in the NAH business with a 15.3% 
increase in enquiries driving a 10.4% 
increase in revenue and a 29.3% operating 
profit improvement. This growth resulted 
from improved operational efficiency, more 
effective marketing, and an increase in RTA 
driven by market consolidation, as many 
small claims management companies ceased 
operating in the PI market. Our brand 
leadership enabled us to take advantage of 
this and increase our share in all of the key 
sectors in which we operate. Our enquiry 
growth has also been strong in our target 
sectors of non-RTA and medical negligence 
which has enabled us to retain the high 
quality mix of enquiries that our PLFs value.
Market overview
The PI market is estimated at £3bn
1
 and has 
approximately one million claims per 
annum. The market remains relatively flat, 
although medical negligence is growing at 
12.4%
1
 and non-RTA at 7.1%
1
 pa. The market 
has seen some consolidation, however, it 
remains fragmented with our overall share 
at an estimated 4%
2
, with market shares of 
1.9%
2
 in RTA, 11.6% 
2
 in non-RTA and 5.8% 
2
 
in medical negligence. 
Russell Atkinson
Chief Executive Officer
1 Source: CRU analysis 2014
2 Source: CRU analysis and management estimates 13 NAHL Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report
No. 1
NAH is the number one daytime TV and 
online spender in the PI sector.
 
Source: Neilsen Media Research 2014
Key strengths
NAH benefits from a number of 
strengths which make it the ideal 
marketing and services provider for 
legal practices, connecting injured 
parties with high quality PLFs and 
promoting access to justice within 
the UK:
•  Market leader which is well 
positioned to benefit from continued 
consolidation.
•  Well recognised, trusted brand 
supported by differentiated 
marketing, established through 
more than £200 million of media 
spend since 1993.
•  Brand media spend, marketing 
know-how and PLF relationships 
that act as barriers to entry.
•  Focused on the highest growth 
segments of a large, fragmented 
market.
•  Strong financial performance 
supported by high cash generation 
and a robust balance sheet.
•  Experienced management team with 
proven ability to manage change.
1 Source: Independent research, The Nursery, 2014
2 Source: Google, December 2014
3 Source: Neilsen Media Research 2014
Brand
The cornerstone of our proposition is the 
NAH brand and its Underdog character 
which is based on insight into how our 
consumers feel when making a claim. 
Throughout 2014 we have continued to 
strengthen our position within the PI sector 
as:
• The most trusted brand on TV
1
• The most searched for online brand 
by name
2
• The number one daytime TV and overall 
online spender
3
• The number one in internet hits
3
The strength of the brand positioning and in 
particular our trust rating has allowed us to 
continue to lead the way as the market’s 
leading online brand. Our expertise in 
marketing has helped us to navigate our way 
through the changing media landscape and 
make real progress in SEO and social media.
For the past 20 years we have been 
committed to the highest ethical standards 
and improving those of the industry in 
which we operate. We are particularly 
passionate about our Stop Nuisance Calls 
campaign which we launched during 2014 
and the Group remains at the forefront of 
efforts to drive out unsolicited texts and calls 
which our consumers tell us are a real issue. 
Panel Law Firms
NAH prides itself on the relationships that it 
has with its PLFs, many dating back over ten 
years. Throughout 2014 we have continued 
to support our panel of leading specialist 
injury lawyers with data and information 
that will help them to understand best 
practice in running cases. This continuing 
investment in data sharing and advice is 
designed to improve our PLFs’ profitability 
and further enhance the attractiveness of 
our cases.
During 2014, we have evolved and developed 
our PLF strategy. With increasing enquiries, 
we work hard to ensure that we are aligned 
with quality law firms who can handle large 
volumes of caseloads with the highest 
calibre of advice to our consumers, whilst 
delivering a cost effective service. PLFs need 
depth of resources, both legal and financial, 
to cope with constant growth in volumes. 
The success of our PLFs is closely entwined 
with our own success and is a significant 
focus of our attention. During 2014 the 
average price paid by PLFs was down 3.2%.
The membership of our Panel during 2014 has 
changed in line with our expectations, 
although with increasing volumes, we are 
beginning to explore new partnering 
arrangements that will allow us to better deal 
with volume growth. This allows us to 
develop alternative strategies for dealing 
with high growth in volumes cost effectively, 
whilst maintaining the quality of our panel.
Products
Providing first class products and services 
through our key partnership relationships is 
critical to our PLFs being able to process the 
case efficiently. In particular ATE is the 
cornerstone of ‘no win no fee’ and is 
fundamental to the consumer feeling 
confident in progressing a case without risk 
of any legal costs. 
The Group’s products continue to perform 
broadly in line with our expectations, 
although it has become clear that we need to 
adapt our non-medical negligence ATE 
product in the light of post-LASPO market 
practices. As a result we expect to launch a 
new product in the first half of 2015 that 
should be better suited to current market risk 
and pricing, and we expect this will deliver 
increased volumes during the second half of 
the year. 
We have also trialled and will shortly be 
launching an enhanced medical negligence 
screening service. This service will 
accelerate the case progression and reduce 
cost risk for our PLFs, bringing more 
certainty to the legal process. We expect to 
see material benefit from 2016.
