 Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report that the group has continued to  
make good progress in the 52 weeks to 26 February 2011. 
This has been achieved against a challenging economic 
backdrop by focussing on our core business whilst investing 
in our recent acquisitions and international expansion.
Financial Results
Total group revenues increased by 4.2% 
to £718.8m and by 1.3% on a like-for-like 
basis, excluding the sales from our recent 
acquisitions, High & Mighty and Figleaves. 
Revenue growth has been restricted by 
the more conservative credit policies we 
adopted for higher value items but this has 
been a major contributor to the improved 
net bad debt charge to sales ratio which 
has fallen from 9.0% to 7.4%. This in turn 
is the main reason why we have managed 
to achieve a gross margin rate of 53.8%, 
up by 1.3% from last year’s rate of 52.5%.
Operating profit is up by 5.1% to £102.6m 
giving an operating margin of 14.3% 
(2010, 14.1%). Profit before taxation is up 
10.3% to £94.5m, or by 5.5% to £98.2m, 
after excluding fair value adjustments to 
financial instruments. Adjusted earnings 
per share are up by 9.1% to 27.02p.
The board has a medium term target  
for full year dividend cover of twice 
earnings per share and to this end it is 
proposing a final dividend of 7.37p, up  
by 15.0%. This gives a total dividend  
for the year of 12.41p, up by 15.0%  
and covered 2.2 times.
Net borrowings at 26 February 2011 
were £180.9m, an increase of £10.8m 
from a year earlier. The principal reasons 
for the increase were the acquisition of 
Figleaves for £10.3m, higher levels of 
capital expenditure, predominantly to 
create state-of-the-art online functionality, 
and working capital, principally due to an 
accelerated intake of stock. Net finance 
costs have remained flat at £4.4m,  
covered 23 times by operating profits. 
Gearing has fallen from 53% to 50%  
on net assets which have risen by 13.0% 
to £360.4m. We have renegotiated a 
£200m securitisation facility for five years 
with HSBC a year ahead of schedule  
in order to avoid the risk of any turmoil in 
financial markets at a later date, albeit at  
a higher interest margin than we were 
paying previously.
Measuring our 
achievements
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 8 Trading Highlights
During the year the highlights have been:
• 	 C o n t i n u e d 	 i m pr o v e m e n t 	 i n 	 o u r	
targeted brand portfolio, with notable 
performances from Marisota, Jacamo 
and House of Bath.
• 	 G r o w t h 	 a c r o s s 	 a l l 	 o f 	 o u r 	 m a j o r 	 pr o d u c t	
categories as we expand the ranges 
both online and in the catalogues.  
Both menswear and footwear did 
especially well, with sales up 25%  
and 10% respectively.
• 	 A 	 1 9 % 	 i n c r e a s e 	 t o 	 £ 3 2 4 m 	 i n	
e-commerce sales, which now  
account for 45% of total revenue.
• 	 G r o w i n g 	 t h e 	 S i m p l y 	 B e 	 br an d	
domestically and internationally  
with the launch in the USA in August 
2010 to complement the growing 
German operation.
• 	 T h e 	 a cq u i s i t i o n 	 o f 	 F i g l e a v e s 	 an d	
development of High & Mighty.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Activities demonstrating our corporate 
social responsibility are at an all time high. 
We are now ranked in the top quartile of 
retailers for our environmental behaviour, 
and continue to reduce our carbon 
footprint. The scale of charitable activities 
undertaken by our employees, both in 
donations and participation, is at record 
levels. We continue to strengthen our 
ethical sourcing policies and procedures.
Outlook
The UK consumer is facing rising costs 
and falling incomes in 2011, but we 
anticipate a slow but steady rising trend in 
disposable income thereafter. The cost of 
goods from the Far East has risen sharply 
as a result of increases in labour costs  
and commodities, such as cotton.  
We are doing everything we can to cushion 
our customers from these rising costs  
but inevitably, in line with the entire 
clothing retail sector, there will have to be 
increases in selling prices. Furthermore we 
anticipate an increased level of targeted 
promotional campaigns may be needed 
to stimulate sales activity at various times 
during the year.
In our core home shopping business we 
continue to see the development of our 
online activities as the key to growth, since 
this enables us to have a wider product 
range and greater flexibility to change 
our promotional focus cost effectively. 
We will also be exploring the benefits of 
full multi-channel capability by trialling 
three concept stores during the year for 
our Simply Be brand. Success will be 
determined by whether the cost is justified 
by the incremental customers and revenue 
generated across all channels.
We expect further improvements in the 
trading performances of our two most 
recent acquisitions, Figleaves and High & 
Mighty, where we have been investing in 
systems and store openings respectively, 
as well as product development. 
International expansion of our Simply 
Be brand is an important element of the 
group’s growth strategy. We have been 
encouraged by the first few months’ 
trading in the USA and are planning to 
double our planned marketing spend  
this year to accelerate the rate of growth.  
Sales from Simply Be in Germany were 
up by 41% although returns rates remain 
higher than we would like.
Sales for the 10 weeks to 7 May 2011 are 
4.8% up on last year or up by 1.5% on  
a like-for-like basis. This includes the 
distorting effects of the late Easter,  
the Royal Wedding and the warm April 
weather. We have also managed to 
maintain the rate of gross margin during 
this period, despite a 9% rise in cost 
prices and a higher rate of VAT. We  
believe that a combination of a strong 
focus on our chosen customer and 
product groups, coupled with growing  
our online penetration, enhancing our 
recent acquisitions and building Simply  
Be in international markets will continue  
to put N Brown amongst the leading 
clothing retailers, and leave us well 
positioned for when the market improves.
The group has, yet again, performed well 
in difficult economic conditions, which is 
a testimony to the efforts of everyone who 
works in the business and the support 
from our suppliers and trade union.  
I would like to thank them all for their 
excellent contribution.
Lord Alliance of Manchester, CBE
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 9
