 The rising importance of recruitment companies
The search for talent has remained one of the top priorities for Chief
Executives during the past year. Its importance will continue in the next
five years as organisations realise that what McKinsey once called the
‘War for Talent’ is having a major impact on recruitment companies in
Europe and globally. Two significant reports on Talent and Recruitment
in The Economist (Oct 06) and by Demos* and the Recruitment and
Employment Confederation (April 07) have shown how recruitment is
changing and how increasingly important intermediaries such as
Highams are in the provision of talent to organisations. 
We fully expect that changing demographics, new attitudes to career
expectations and more dependence from employers on a good
personality fit (compared to simply a good skills fit) will place greater
emphasis on high-quality, network orientated recruitment methods. 
Highams operates in this arena and is creating a niche for itself in the
provision of senior appointments in technology in the financial services
sector. Highams’ role as an intermediary between contingent and
permanent talent and our customers continues to be recognised by our
long standing customers and those new clients who started benefiting
from Highams’ services in the past year.
Challenging Highams in a Changing World 
Since my arrival in January 07 , there has been much change at
Highams to ensure we make the most of the rising importance of
recruitment companies to organisations. The market in the UK and
Europe continues to grow. This year Highams has hired 15 new people
to tap into this growth. Our focus has remained in financial services 
and I am delighted to report Highams has secured a number of new
customers in the last quarter of 2006/07 . Whilst the focus away from
some of the historic, lower margin, preferred supplier business has had
an effect on the revenue line, proportionally the net fee income as a
percentage of sales is rising.
Our approach has been to refine our offering to our customers – both
to our consultants and candidates and to organisations which hire 
them. Highams offers two distinct services; a private client approach 
in the provision of senior consultants who have worked with Highams 
in the past and a retail approach for general business with a wider
range of customers. This has resulted in Highams developing deeper
relationships with significant customers and allowing us to offer them 
a wider range of value-creating services whilst, at the same time,
maintaining our existing business with customers where Highams
places people with organisations on an occasional basis.
Our major focus for 07/08 is to ensure Highams is at the forefront 
in our sector in maximizing the efficiency provided by Web 2.0. In the
words of the Demos report, “Web 2.0 sees the internet as a collaborative
tool, where we each have a role in creating value for one another.” as is
happening, for instance, with YouTube, LinkedIn and Facebook. This will
result in attracting talent for our customer base and ensuring that talent
can communicate with one another and with Highams. The relationship
that Highams builds with its candidates and consultants will be
increasingly vital to its success in a world where those who manage
and deliver top talent will become ever more important and successful.
The International Dimension
As our customer base grows so will our presence internationally. Our
business in Brussels has grown in 2006/07 and our innovative model
of using local home-workers in Belgium is a formula that Highams will
use internationally during the coming 12 months. This model primarily
involves ex-patriates, typically parents returning to full or part-time work
having had families. They are excellent recruiters and their intelligence
combined with our workforce flexibility will help develop and cement
stronger relationships with our customers. It is a low cost, high touch
model that will see Highams become an international organisation in 
a world where talent is sourced and delivered globally. As talented
people continue to move around, Highams will feature prominently in 
its sector. This approach is being executed initially by working with our
06 | HIGHAMS R&A.2007
Chief
Executive’s
Report
*Recruitment 2020 How recruitment is changing and why it matters   
Available from www.demos.co.uk
4
Drive profitable ventures. international customers who are demanding Highams provides its
excellent UK services into other geographic locations.
Expansion in the UK
In April 2007 , we opened our first office in the UK outside our
Caterham headquarters. Taking an office on the 28th floor of the iconic
‘Gherkin’ building in the City of London has brought Highams closer 
to its financial services customers and is a base for our Platinum Club,
an invitation only community for our private client technology talent.
Highams continues to work alongside its customers as they seek 
to become more imaginative, utilise their brand in the most effective
way and ensure that, in the ‘digital age’, the technology that drives
organisations is provided by the very best people. Highams will
continue to provide the very best talent as it continues to grow 
with its customers in the coming years.
Our wider responsibility
Highams has recently selected Rainbow Trust, Trees for Cities and
Action Aid to partner. Working with Rainbow Trust, Highams’ staff will,
through various fund-raising events, raise money to provide support for
the families of sick children. 
We will also be raising awareness for our environment and for projects
overseas by making donations to Trees for Cities (for every interview)
and Action Aid (for every contract or permanent placement made). 
These partnerships are a great example of how we can work alongside
a charity, both motivating our staff in their work and demonstrating to
clients our social responsibility.
People making the difference
One of the key success factors for Highams to build on is the length 
of service of our people. Of our people who have been with us for 
more than a year, over 50% have been at Highams for more than 
10 years and a further 30% for more than 5 years. In a market where
traditionally recruiters move many times, our heritage of keeping our
top people is much appreciated by our customers, resulting in
continued and strong business renewals. Adding another 40% of
people to this team this year has already generated additional business
and will auger well for the coming years.
Today Highams employs 40 proud people. In this rising market they all
need to be at the top of their game. Those that were not, exited the
business in the final quarter of 2006/07 . For both our new colleagues
and our existing people, new training programmes have been developed.
Highams has taken an active role in the recruitment industry with its
involvement in the Recruitment and Employment Confederation. The
Highams brand, often quoted in the past 24 years but certainly relatively
quiet in the recent past, has been invigorated with a number of press
articles, customer events and charitable involvement in the first six
months of 2007 .
My role as CEO is to ensure our people are confident and happy in the
key role they play in our organisation and with their customers. It is to
drive this business back to sustainable, profitable growth and to provide
the platform to do so. Finally, it is to establish Highams as one of the
key organisations upon whose services its customers rely to drive their
businesses forward.
I am proud of our people and their dedication in this year of change
and excitement. I trust that you will share in our enthusiasm to make 
a difference in the recruitment sector and to see how our influence
matters as we devote ourselves to being the leading niche provider 
of technology talent in the financial services industry.
Dave Pye 4
Chief Executive Officer
23 July 2007
HIGHAMS R&A.2007 | 07
s.
“I have always been impressed 
by Highams and its knowledge 
of our industry. In terms of service, 
Highams provides nothing short 
of excellence”
Steve Williams, Head of Strategic Sales, 
Bravura Solutions. 
