 04 | HIGHAMS R&A.2007
Chairman’s
Statement 
These are exciting times at Highams. We have a revamped Board.
We have a new Chief Executive, Dave Pye. We have opened a
new Highams office in the heart of our client base in the City of
London. We have considerably enlarged our sales team. We have
agreed ambitious plans for the year ahead.
Our goal is to make a step change in the Group’s performance. We
recognised as a Board that such a step change was not likely without
new personnel at all levels of the organisation, starting at the top! 
I strongly encourage you to read our new Chief Executive’s Report to
learn more of the year ended 31 March 2007 and, importantly, what 
is in store for this current financial year and the future.
The results for the last financial year, given below, reveal the progress
we are making in our move to higher margin business, albeit the
bottom line was inevitably impacted by the investment at the start 
of the new change programme. The current financial year will be one 
of continued investment as we implement our plans, which we expect
to see bear fruit in this and subsequent years. 
Financial Results
The Group made an operating loss of £120,000 before goodwill
amortisation of £128,000 (2006: profit of £192,000 before goodwill
amortisation of £128,000), in the main reflecting our increased
investment in the second half of the year.
Group loss before taxation was £313,000 (2006: loss of £13,000). 
Reflecting the Group’s move towards higher margin business and 
a greater percentage of permanent business, Group turnover fell by 
10 per cent. to £16.3m (2006: £18.0m) as we undertook a reduced
volume of low-margin contract business, but gross profit still grew by
2.5% to £2.2m (2006: £2.1m) representing 13.29% of turnover, a
significant improvement compared to 11.73% in 2006. 
The Directors are not recommending the payment of a final dividend for the
year to 31 March 2007 (2006: nil).
Trading Review
Our emphasis has been, and remains, on finding higher value business
through further enhancing our capabilities to provide a specialised
range of services to smaller and medium sized organisations. We have
continued to seek and win new clients that meet these criteria in our
niche market sectors of insurance, investment management and
financial services.
We have achieved this refocusing of our strategy whilst managing to
modestly improve our levels of net fee income. Compared to the previous
year, our volume of low-margin business has reduced substantially,
while higher-margin contract business has increased by around 5%
and permanent business has increased by 90%. 
Trading in our specialist areas has remained positive, with a continuing
emphasis on demand for permanent staff. This stronger demand for
permanent staff compared to contract personnel is traditionally a sign
of a confident market. 
Demand is particularly strong, across the board, for individuals with
project and programme management skills, business analysis experience
related to business intelligence and regulatory reporting, and those with
web development skills in our niche markets. 
Investment
In 2007 /08, we are making substantial investments in new initiatives,
additional staff, targeted training, our London premises and overseas
expansion. We expect that our niche markets will remain strong for 
the next two or three years at least, making this an opportune time to
be investing in our ambitious plans. Inevitably there are normal risks
associated with such an investment programme, and the delivery of 
the benefits from the investments will lag behind the costs. I therefore 
Highams’ end-users 
Insurance
AIG
Allianz Insurance
Aspen
Capita Life & Pensions Services
Cassidy Davis
CETA
CMGL
Diligenta
EDS Solcorp
HSBC
Just Retirement
Kanbay
Liberata
Lockton International
LV Insurance Management
MGM Assurance
Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance 
Open GI
Prudential Assurance
RIAS
Scor Global 
Software Solutions Partners
Swiftcover.com
Winterthur Financial Services
Zurich Insurance
3i Infotech
4
Create memorable customer experiences. expect our half year results to reflect the costs and few of the benefits,
whilst the second half of the year should be more balanced. Such
investments will initially also require greater use of our finance facilities
and hence higher interest charges will likely be incurred. 
Board Changes
On 3 January 2007 we welcomed Dave Pye as our new CEO,
following an intensive selection process. Dave brings substantial sales
and senior-level management experience, a wealth of contacts and
extensive influence within the IT recruitment industry to his new role 
at Highams and has used all of this to determine and drive the exciting
change programme on which we have embarked.
On Dave’s appointment, Ted Andrews stepped aside as Managing
Director to assume the position of Chief Operating Officer.
We announced the resignations of Glen Burbidge and Tony Eve,
effective from 31 March 2007 and 11 May 2007 respectively. Glen
Burbidge’s Board responsibilities have been assumed by Dave Pye
whilst his operational duties have been taken over by Mark de Lacy,
who runs our Caterham sales team, and Paul Byrne who is in charge 
of our London sales office. Tony Eve’s Board and operational
responsibilities have been absorbed into Ted Andrews’ role.
Executives and Staff
We remain unusual amongst recruitment companies in having a high
number of very knowledgeable and long-serving staff. I am extremely
grateful to them for their loyalty and their eagerness to support the
significant changes we are effecting in the Company. I extend a warm
welcome to our newer staff and hope that many of them will develop
along similar lines as their experienced colleagues.
Outlook
As I stated in my introduction, these are exciting times at Highams with
a great number of very positive changes in progress. Dave Pye’s CEO’s
Report explains many of these changes, demonstrating the thought
leadership, practical approach and infectious energy and enthusiasm 
he has brought to Highams.
With the continuing strength of our marketplace and our determined
approach to delivering high-quality, high-value recruitment consultancy
services, I look forward to the Group’s continued progress in the
months ahead with confidence.
Alan Howarth  4
Chairman
23 July 2007
Investment Management, 
Banking & Finance
Bravura Solutions
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe)
Fortis Investment Management
HBOS
Infocomp
Nationwide Building Society
Paymaster (1836)
Praemium
Selestia
Swiss Re
Tradar
1st Software
Non Financial 
BMW (UK)
Hitachi Europe
McKesson
Nortel Networks
Perot Systems
Pfizer 
Sainsbury’s
Schneider Electric
Spicer Haart
Thales
tomer experiences.
