 Nakama Group plc Annual report 3
Chief Executive’s Statement
Operational Review
Introduction
There are many technology recruitment companies around the world, most of which work in the IT operations
markets, but very few of any size work in the Digital Media sector. Nakama was developed with a specific aim to
service the growing online world.
The growth of all online technologies globally is too fast and too broad to accurately map; however, companies,
consumers and governments are increasingly communicating, trading and entertaining online. They are doing this
via desktop computers, or laptops, or smartphones or tablets, and the online world connects instantaneously
across vast geographies.
Access to the Internet and all it offers is the world of digital design, usability and technology and it is in this area
that Nakama is a unique service provider working across the UK, Europe, Asia and Australasia.
Digital Media require IT. In the past Nakama was unable to service clients needs in IT, but that has now changed
with the acquisition and being able to utilise the skills across the new Group. Our brands can now expand and
work with all its clients from the Group’s overseas locations. The price comparison industry in insurance is a good
example of where digital media and insurance come together in a very sophisticated way in the UK, but this
combination is only just starting to develop in Asia and Australia. 
In between the Web and IT operations is the rapidly expanding world of software into which Nakama Group will
seek to expand, particularly with regard to e-commerce and internet security.
Staffing Strategy
To grow the Group organically and in the most cost effective way, Nakama has been mainly hiring graduates with
little or no work experience and training them into consultants. This has been a successful and predictable way to
grow staff numbers. The UK current market conditions are favourable in that many high calibre graduates who
may have found work in previous years in management consulting or financial institutions are looking for careers in
recruitment.
The UK is the largest part of Nakama Group plc and I expect it will continue to be so for many years, as it is the
centre for much of what we do and it is a good location from which to support operations in Asia and Australasia,
as well as trading into mainland Europe. However, we are exploring significant growth opportunities in Asia where
we have experienced fast growth and where our clients are developing rapidly with the need to hire many
specialist people.
Expansion during the current financial year
The Group opened an office in Singapore in April to service the fast growing digital sector in South East Asia and it
also expects to open an office in Munich in the second quarter to address the IT needs of the growing German
financial services sector.
Nakama Search also opened in May this year through the acquisition of Libby Fisher Associates and this division
will target the senior level hiring needs of the UK digital and online markets. The board is also assessing the
viability of opening an office in Mainland China.
Nakama has a unique vision of its place in technology recruitment at a time when that sector is experiencing rapid
expansion. We will be opportunistic in terms of attracting individuals and teams of people into the Group, many of
whom I believe are seeing what we are achieving and wish to bring their skills into the Group.
Stefan Ciecierski
6 August 2012
