 2 Nakama Group plc Annual report
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report our full year results to 31 March 2012, which have seen encouraging revenue progress
since the acquisition of Nakama and its integration with Highams to create Nakama Group plc (AIM: NAK).
Nakama provides a full range of specialist recruitment services to its clients, providing staff for the Web,
Interactive, IT and Digital Media sectors through the placement of contract and permanent staff across the UK,
Europe, Asia and Australia and post year end Singapore.
The company’s network of proven managers populating the Group’s offices in the UK, Hong Kong, Singapore,
Sydney and Melbourne, provides the Group with the potential for leveraging off its unique platform to rapidly
accelerate its drive into fast developing specialist markets over the coming years. The digital media industry in
particular is expanding globally at a very fast rate and the Board of Nakama believe that the Group is now well
positioned to take full advantage of this growth.
As part of the acquisition we are very pleased to have Stefan Ciecierski as our CEO, who provides expertise and
experience in building a global business. Stefan joined the Board from the date of acquisition in October 2011.
Strategy
Our strategy is to build from a strong base in the UK and expand both in our specialist areas internationally and
into targeted developing markets. London is a global leader in many of our chosen market sectors and
provides a strong hub from which to develop an international client base. Digital media recruitment both into
agencies and into corporate marketing departments continues to show no signs of slowing down and Highams’
traditional business providing technology, business and professional services to the insurance and financial
services sector remains strong and is increasingly digital.
Selective recruitment of new staff into the company, particularly at graduate level, has enhanced the levels of
activity required to meet the needs of our clients and delivery of our specialist services. We believe that the
Nakama Group offering and quality of our service is based upon our staffs’ deep understanding and knowledge
of our clients’ requirements and their markets.
We have achieved our strategy of growing strategically by acquisition and continue to look at other
opportunities globally. 
Financial Results 
Group revenue increased by 47 per cent. to £13.3m (2011: £9m), primarily reflecting the additional revenue
from the acquisition of Nakama Ltd in October 2011. Net fee income (NFI) improved by 68 per cent. to £2.74m
(2011: £1.63m), with profit margins increased again to 20 per cent (2011: 18 per cent). 
The operating profit before exceptional items (the acquisition of Nakama Ltd) was £232,000 (2011: profit of
£321,000), which was disappointing. The integration of both companies’ back office functions has been completed
and will show cost savings in the current year, but the consolidation and re-organisation of accounting and debt
financing took longer than expected. The Directors are not recommending the payment of a final dividend for the
year to 31 March 2012 (2011: nil), but a resumption in future dividend payments will be kept under review.
Executives and Staff
We remain a strong team of very knowledgeable long serving staff and we look forward to continuing to build
the new Nakama Group. I would like to acknowledge the loyalty and commitment of all the staff to the Group
and am extremely grateful for their efforts. Again I extend a very warm welcome to all new members of the
team and I look forward to their development and the future success of Nakama. 
Outlook
I am pleased by the merger of Highams and Nakama and the substantial progress seen during the year in
terms of integration and increased sales to create the Nakama Group and the subsequent appointment of
Stefan Ciecierski as Group Chief Executive. The next year will see a full year contribution from Nakama Ltd
and a contribution from recently opened businesses such as Singapore and Nakama Search, as well as many
new staff, recently recruited.  We look forward to continuing progress over the coming financial year which
should be reflected in an improved financial performance.
Ken Ford
6 August 2012
