 10
CEO’s Review of Operations 
“ We are very focused on delivery  
of technology and new production 
capacity to satisfy our major 
markets including backlighting  
for LCD TVs, general lighting and 
thin film solar cells.”
Quantum dots are nano-sized 
semiconductor particles with the 
ability to emit intense light of a 
specific colour dependent on the  
size of the dots, which range from  
10 to 100 atoms in width. These dots, 
which Nanoco makes without toxic 
heavy metals, such as cadmium,  
have multiple commercial applications 
in many industrial and consumer 
markets, delivering significant benefits 
including reduced power consumption 
and increased performance. Our 
technology allows the manufacture  
of other nanomaterials including  
solar inks, harnessing the ability of 
nanoparticulate semiconductors to 
absorb light to create highly efficient 
solar panels.
Owing to the scale of the commercial 
opportunity presented to us, we have 
focused initially on a small number  
of high value target markets, working 
in collaboration with customers and 
potential customers who have the 
ability to bring products to market 
incorporating our nanomaterials.
Critical to success is our ability to 
design and develop quantum dots  
to bespoke specifications for our 
customers’ particular end use.  
Once this design and development  
is successful, a material supply and 
licence agreement is signed under 
which Nanoco receives payments for 
the supply of material and royalties on 
sales of the customer’s end product. 
Manufacturing in-house is central to 
our business model owing to the value 
that control of the supply chain can 
bring to the Company. We have made 
major progress in the scale-up of our 
manufacturing and remain confident 
that we will be able to deliver large 
quantities of quantum dots in the 
foreseeable future. Although this has 
never been done before, Nanoco’s 
solution-based chemistry uses 
equipment similar to other industries, 
significantly reducing risk.
We are currently focused on four target 
markets: LED lighting for backlighting 
of liquid crystal display (LCD) televisions 
and for general lighting; solar power; 
electroluminescent displays; and other 
applications. 
Creating white light from blue LEDs 
through the use of red and green 
quantum dots brings significant benefits 
compared with the currently used 
phosphor technology. These benefits 
include reduced power consumption 
and superior colour performance. 
Michael Edelman
Chief Executive Officer
Our primary focus at  
Nanoco is to commercialise 
our world-class technology,  
but before reviewing the 
significant progress made 
towards achieving this goal  
I would like to provide a brief 
overview of the Company.
Our key asset is our patent-protected 
technology for the design, development 
and mass manufacture of quantum 
dots and other nanomaterials, which 
have highly attractive commercial 
characteristics. The robustness of our 
intellectual property is underlined by  
the recent issuing of patent number 
7 ,803,423, one of Nanoco’s fundamental 
manufacturing patents, by the United 
States Patent and Trademark Office. 11
Nanoco Group PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Review of the Year
Quantum dot LEDs are ideally suited for 
the backlighting of television and other 
displays, such as computer screens. 
In addition to their ability to emit  
light, nanoparticulate semiconductors 
are able to absorb light across  
a very broad spectrum, bringing the 
potential for highly efficient solar  
cells to reduce the cost per watt of 
solar energy. Nanoco has developed 
photovoltaic nanomaterial inks  
which can be printed by conventional 
low-cost printing techniques to create 
thin films for use as solar panels.
Nanoco’s development work in 
electroluminescent displays – the 
future generation of displays for 
consumer goods including mobile 
phones, computers and televisions – 
exploits the ability of quantum dots  
to be used as pixels. Such displays 
would be very thin and have no 
requirement for a backlight, bringing 
benefits including low power 
consumption, high colour quality  
and ease of manufacture. 
Nanoco’s ability to make quantum 
dots free of heavy metals creates the 
opportunity for in vivo imaging, which 
has attracted considerable interest 
from the life science industry. The 
development cycle is substantially 
longer in this sector owing to the 
regulatory framework but presents a 
significant medium term opportunity.
Commercial agreements
During the year we signed our first 
agreement in the solar power sector 
with Tokyo Electron, a major Japanese 
semiconductor and flat panel display 
production equipment supplier.  
We also signed a new agreement  
in the LED lighting market and made 
significant progress with our other  
LED lighting activities. 
Under the agreement with Tokyo 
Electron, we are developing solar  
inks for printing into a nanomaterial 
film, which will form the solar-active 
component of a new photovoltaic 
panel. Nanoco received an upfront 
payment and will receive milestone 
payments during the contract,  
which began in June 2010 and  
is progressing well.
In September 2009 we signed a new 
agreement with a major Japanese 
electronics company for the bespoke 
design of quantum dots for use in the 
LED backlighting of televisions.  
This collaboration is progressing well 
and we have achieved the required 
milestones, triggering a payment of 
US$600,000 in July 2010 and bringing 
the total paid to Nanoco from the 
agreement to US$1.8 million.
We received a milestone payment of 
US$2 million from our first supply and 
licence agreement signed in November 
2008 with a major Japanese 
corporation for red and green quantum 
dots for LEDs. It was subsequently 
agreed with this partner that the 
second technical milestone would  
be amended in the light of more 
demanding market requirements, 
particularly with regard to the lifetimes 
in service of the LEDs, which have now 
been set at 50,000 hours. It is pleasing 
to note that our quantum dots have 
met the key technical criteria to date 
except for the final extended lifetime 
tests which are expected to be 
completed successfully in the near 
future. Our partner has already made 
partial payment for these revised 
intermediate milestones in recognition 
of the successful progress. We are 
therefore pressing ahead to deliver  
our first 1kg of red quantum dots to  
the Japanese corporation early in the 
next calendar year, which will trigger  
a further US$2 million milestone 
payment. It is expected that the green 
1kg delivery will follow later in the first 
half of 2011, triggering a further US$2 
million payment.
Once the products under this 
agreement are commercialised,  
a royalty will be paid to Nanoco  
on the net sales of the corporation’s 
products, which will comprise an  
LED chip, quantum dots and an 
encapsulant. The packaged LEDs  
will be sold by the corporation to LCD 
television and display makers and to 
solid state lighting manufacturers. 
During the year, we have seen 
increasing interest from potential 
customers in the use of our quantum 
dots for use with LEDs in general 
lighting, where Nanoco’s technology 
has the potential to provide lighting 
with a high colour rendering index. 
Current methods for producing white 
light from blue LEDs tend to be 
relatively weak in the red wavelengths, 
with the result that the light can lack 
warmth and fail to show true colours; 
the use of Nanoco’s quantum dots can 
correct these failings.
We continue in discussions with 
potential partners across a range  
of applications. 
Manufacturing/operations
Since joining AIM in May 2009,  
we have been focused on scaling  
up from the production of very small 
quantities of quantum dots to mass 
production so that customers can 
supply major end-use markets. We 
made significant progress during the 
year in achieving this goal, including 
the appointment of Andrew Gooda  
as Manufacturing Director in January 
2010. He has since developed a clear 
pathway to take us through the steps 
to mass production.
During the year, we have added a 
series of scale-up reactors in our 
Manchester headquarters. These 
reactors are critical in the progression 
of the quantum dots from very small 
scale manufacture in the laboratory  
to mass production. 
Today we announced that we have 
taken a lease on a 3000 square foot 
facility at The Heath, a technology 
park in Runcorn, Cheshire. This facility, 
which will involve an initial investment 
of £1.3 million, will be our first 
commercial production plant and we 
expect it to be commissioned later 
this calendar year. This sixty acre site 
provides ample room for Nanoco’s 
future expansion requirements.
Our customers are global corporations 
who expect suppliers to perform  
to accepted international standards.  
We are committed to exceeding the 
expected quality assurance standards, 
and health, safety and environmental 
legislation, both at Runcorn and in 
Manchester. We have recruited skilled 
staff who are currently developing and 
implementing the systems needed to 
ensure that all of our operations meet 
the highest standards.
Summary
Our first full year as a quoted company 
has been one of rapid progress. 
The Company has delivered against 
customer contracts and against 
manufacturing scale-up targets whilst 
keeping tight control over our cash  
to ensure we have adequate funds  
to build the Company successfully.
In the current year we will continue  
to focus on delivery of our commercial 
contracts, our manufacturing scale-up 
and on securing new commercial 
agreements across our target markets.
Michael Edelman
Chief Executive Officer
15 October 2010
