 14
Q: How did you get interested in quantum dots?
A: In the mid-90s I was working at St Andrews University studying 
semiconductor thin films, the material used in chips in today’s 
electronic equipment. Specifically, I was looking at how to eliminate  
an unwanted fine powder that formed on top of the thin film 
semiconductors during their manufacture. I found that the addition  
of amine changed the amount and colour of the powder, ranging  
from black to yellow, depending on the concentration of amine used. 
The powder was made up of quantum dots, and I’ve been fascinated 
by them ever since.
Q: What was the start of Nanoco’s technology?
A: It was clear that one of the major hurdles to the commercialisation 
of quantum dots was to be able to produce them in large quantities.  
I could see the commercial potential so I worked on solving this 
problem in the evenings and at weekends. At the time, I was working  
for Professor Paul O’Brien at Manchester University, making starting 
materials used to grow semiconductor thin films.
Q: When did you first seek patent protection?
A: As soon as the first experiments were successful in 2004. 
Q: What was the breakthrough that you made?
A: The breakthrough was discovering a scalable process so that 
quantum dots could be produced in large quantities and to tailor the 
process so that the quantum dots are free of cadmium or other heavy 
metals. This is very important for their adoption in consumer products.
Q: Why is making commercial quantities  
of quantum dots so difficult?
A: To be commercially viable, quantum dots have to be of high  
purity with a narrow size distribution, which is demanding as quantum 
dots are very small, only 5-10 nanometers in diameter. They also need 
an organic surface coating so that they can be combined into glass, 
resins or polymers for use in finished products. The process must also  
be scalable. We believe that Nanoco’s technology is the only method  
that meets all of these criteria.
In conversation
with the Chief T echnology
Officer, Nigel Pickett.
Nanoco Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15
Review of the Year
Q: What do you see as the most exciting 
commercial possibilities for Nanoco technology?
A: There are many potential possibilities as the quantum dots can  
be used in many existing products, but would make the product more 
efficient. Nearest to commercialisation is our work on replacing the 
current phosphor material used in LEDs for the backlighting of LCD 
displays. The current technology is weak in red wavelengths so by using 
our technology a much improved picture quality can be achieved. We 
are also active in the area of general lighting. Because we can control 
the size of quantum dots very accurately, we can create LEDs that give 
“warm” light with a high colour rendering index suitable for home and 
office environments. We’re close to the commercialisation of these 
products as well.
Q: Looking into the future, how could the technology 
be used?
A: The technology could be used anywhere that a luminescent dye  
is currently employed, such as in many biological and bio-medical 
applications. Our main focus currently is commercialising LED lighting 
and solar power but the theoretical possibilities are very exciting. In the 
future, our quantum dots could be used as pixels to create ultra-thin, 
printable QD-OLED TV screens with the possibility that these could 
either be sprayed on walls or printed on flexible materials, so the screen 
could be rolled up.
Q: Scientists have been looking for a way to mass 
produce quantum dots for many years. How did you 
solve the problem?
A: Before Nanoco, the main method was using traditional chemistry. 
Typically, starting materials were rapidly injected into a reaction flask  
to achieve nucleation and growth of quantum dots. This method (dual 
injection) works well for small-scale synthesis. However, increasing the 
reaction size, and trying to rapidly inject a large volume of hot solution 
into another, results in a temperature differential. This produces a range 
of quantum dot sizes, which is undesirable. 
The way I solved the scale-up problem was by removing the need for 
the dual injection step. Instead I used pre-formed “molecular clusters” 
as a seed from which larger quantities of crystalline quantum dots 
could be produced. Moreover, because suitable nucleation sites are 
already provided by the molecular clusters, a high temperature 
nucleation step is not necessary. This methodology is scalable and  
is what we call Nanoco’s “molecular seeding” process.
Q: What is the patent position currently?
A: Because of the uniqueness of Nanoco’s “molecular seeding”  
process we have a very strong IP position. We are continually expanding 
our IP as we further develop our technology. 
Q: How many scientists work at Nanoco?
A: We now have about 50 scientists spread over our two sites,  
in Manchester and in Runcorn.
Q: What are those scientists working on currently?
A: We have a number of scientists working on improvements to  
our quantum dots and expanding the range of quantum dots and  
other nanoparticles we can produce. To make the quantum dots 
commercially useful they need to be incorporated into some kind  
of ink, resin or polymer matrix, depending of the specific application, 
therefore we have a group of scientists dedicated to modifying the 
organic surface of the quantum dots to make them compatible  
with many of these materials. They also work on making inks and  
resins specifically for the quantum dots. This work is done in close 
collaboration with our partners and customers.
A careful balance is required to allow  
us to develop quickly and effectively  
to meet market demand whilst at the  
same time minimising technical risks  
and managing costs.
Nanoco Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Review of the Year
