 02
Nanoco Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chairman’s statement
Making substantial  
progress in developing  
our business.
Peter Rowley
Non-Executive Chairman 03
Review of the Year
Nanoco Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
We now have an increasing diversity of commercial collaborations 
working in three key areas: LED backlighting for TVs, solid state LED 
lighting and solar power. 
Our technology has a myriad of potential applications, highlighted  
by recent approaches we’ve received from companies wishing to 
incorporate CFQD™ into their products. Whilst we continue to evaluate 
new applications, we are focused on getting the first products  
to market. 
Nanoco’s core asset is its world-class patent-protected technology.  
We have continued to strengthen our intellectual property (IP) position 
throughout the year. Over the past 12 months Nanoco has had eight 
new patents granted and 79 patent applications filed. 
Financials 
Our revenues in the year to 31 July 2011 were £2.64 million (2010: 
£2.94 million). Our loss before tax was £3.22 million (2010: loss of  
£1.37 million), primarily reflecting the costs associated with setting  
up the Runcorn manufacturing facilities and commissioning the plant  
to produce the first kilo of red CFQD™. Cash and short term investments 
and deposits at the year-end were £17 .10 million (31 July 2010:  
£5.68 million). 
People
In August 2010, we were delighted to welcome Colin White as our  
Chief Financial Officer. By the year end, the Nanoco team had grown  
to 63 people, compared with 49 people a year earlier. The increase 
reflects the transition to a growing manufacturing business and includes 
roles in systems, processes and sales in addition to production and 
technical product development. 
I would like to offer my sincere thanks to all at Nanoco for their 
dedication and commitment throughout the year and to all our 
commercial partners and other stakeholders.
Outlook 
The rapid progress the Company has made in the past year has 
continued into the current year. All of our commercial relationships  
are developing well as is the industrialisation of our technology, with 
commercial production now projected to commence during the 
2012/13 financial year. We look forward to continued progress and  
view the future with confidence. 
Peter Rowley
Non-Executive Chairman
14 October 2011
I am delighted to report on Nanoco’s second full year as a publicly 
quoted company. 
It was a year of excellent progress in which we continued to make the 
transition from a research-based company to a high-tech manufacturing 
business capable of producing large batches of cadmium-free quantum 
dots (CFQD™).
We commissioned our first production lines in January 2011 in Runcorn, 
giving us the capacity to produce around 25kg of CFQD™ annually and 
marking an important step in our multi-stage plan to build substantial 
manufacturing capacity. 
In April 2011, we announced the production of a 1kg batch of red 
CFQD™ for a major Japanese corporation, marking a key milestone  
for the Runcorn plant. Manufacturing quantum dots on this scale  
is a major technical achievement and a world-first, underlining the 
scalability of Nanoco’s technology and the expertise of our technical 
and production teams. Not only is the scale of manufacture a world-
first but our quantum dots are free of cadmium or other toxic metals, 
making them ideally suited to use in consumer electronics and other 
products where health, safety and environmental considerations  
are paramount.
We have progressed plans for further expanding capacity following  
a successful £15 million fundraising in January 2011. We are currently 
finalising the detailed design of the Kilo Lab plant, with the start of 
construction timed to reflect the increase in demand when commercial 
production ramps-up. If demand ramps-up more quickly we can expand 
capacity on the existing production line to 40kg and add further lines  
at relatively short notice.
During the year we have made good progress with our commercial 
collaborations in light-emitting diode (LED) backlighting for liquid 
crystal display (LCD) TVs and in solar power, receiving significant stage 
payments for achieving various technical and performance milestones. 
We continue to believe the first commercial product to come to market 
will be backlit CFQD™ TVs. Based on our current analysis we believe that 
shipments of materials will commence during the 2012/13 financial 
year. In August, shortly after the period end, we signed a new joint 
development agreement (JDA) with one of the world’s largest lighting 
companies with the objective of incorporating red CFQD™ into LED 
lights for commercial, residential and other uses. We also successfully 
exceeded the Phase 1 targets of our solar program with Tokyo Electron 
and signed a Phase 2 JDA to further progress our joint development  
of an efficient, low cost, printable solar cell. 
Review of the Year
Manufacturing quantum dots on this scale  
is a major technical achievement and  
a world-first, underlining the scalability  
of Nanoco’ s technology and the expertise  
of our technical and production teams.
