 Michael Edelman
Chief Executive Officer
10
Our people are the Company’s strongest asset. Our total staff numbers 
were 63 at the year end, reflecting the increased activity across our 
business. We currently have seven staff located full-time in Runcorn, 
and three others dividing their time between Runcorn and our 
Manchester headquarters.
Soon after commissioning the Runcorn facility, we successfully raised 
£15 million (before expenses) through a placing of shares to new and 
existing investors. The funds were raised to invest in further developing 
the business. The funds will be used for the next stage of manufacturing 
scale-up; for new product development; for business development; and 
for strengthening patent portfolio management and protection. 
The next stage in manufacturing scale-up is the installation of Kilo  
Lab lines, which would increase our total production capacity to around 
150kg annually. So far we have spent around £200,000 on planning and 
design work but will begin construction only when we have the appropriate 
visibility in our order books. If demand ramps-up more quickly we can 
expand capacity on the existing production line to 40kg and add further 
lines at relatively short notice. 
The Company has continued to invest heavily in its technology base 
during the year. We now employ around 31 scientists with Ph.D.s and  
17 with degrees. These scientists come from 11 countries worldwide.  
A measure of our technology advancement is the number of patents 
granted and filed by the Company over the year: a total of eight new 
patents were granted and 79 patent applications were filed. Earlier this 
month, we took the opportunity to further expand our patent estate by 
acquiring patents from Evident Technologies Inc., a US nanotechnology 
During the year to 31 July 2011 we made substantial progress in all  
of the key areas of our business, particularly in manufacturing scale-up, 
in commercial agreements, in intellectual property (IP) protection and 
in building our company infrastructure.
The commissioning of our production facility in Runcorn in January 
2011 was a major achievement and demonstrated our commitment  
to transitioning from a research-based company to a high-tech 
manufacturer. We were particularly pleased with the speed with which 
we were able to locate a site and then procure, build and commission 
the production facility, which was completed by the end of January 
2011 at a capital cost of £1.3 million. This was followed by the 
production of 1kg of red CFQD™, which we shipped in March 2011.  
The two Semi-Tech production lines have the capacity to produce  
a total of around 25kg a year of CFQD™. 
The success of the Semi-Tech lines demonstrates the scalability of  
our technology to produce large quantities of CFQD™. Manufacturing 
in-house is central to our business strategy. It ensures that our 
customers are guaranteed product, produced to the highest quality 
standards, which meets the most demanding technical specifications.  
A tremendous amount of work has been carried out on upgrading the 
Company’s internal systems to ensure that we are able to supply our 
large multinational customers in a timely and professional manner. 
CEO’s review of operations
We are very focused on  
delivery of technology to 
satisfy our major markets.
Nanoco Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11
Review of the Year
company. The patents, which largely relate to the surface chemistry  
of quantum dots and their use in applications, extend the reach  
of our cadmium-free technology.
Business development has been an important focus for us during the 
year. To date, the great majority of Nanoco’s commercial relationships 
have centred on Japan, which has a leadership position in the world’s 
optoelectronics industry. But we have started to diversify geographically 
and are now active in Japan, Korea, Taiwan and the USA. We look 
forward to signing our first development agreement in Korea.
Review of key markets
LED backlighting
We made significant progress during the year with our supply and 
licence agreement with a major Japanese corporation. In December 
2010, we received a US$500,000 milestone payment after bespoke  
red CFQD™ met performance criteria including a performance life  
of at least 50,000 hours. 
This was followed in April by a US$2 million milestone payment  
for the production of 1kg of red CFQD™ at our Runcorn facility.  
This kilogramme marked the first time that quantum dots had  
been manufactured on this scale, and was a major achievement  
for Nanoco. A kilogramme of quantum dots will make of the order  
of 50,000 backlight units for LCD TVs, depending on the TV size.
We are now focusing on achieving the remaining milestones for  
green CFQD™, which are part of the same agreement. Our customer  
is currently testing the green lifetime against the 50,000 hour 
requirement. Once achieved, a payment of US$1 million will be  
made to Nanoco and pave the way for the production of the  
1kg of green which triggers a further US$2 million payment. 
In April this year we received a US$800,000 upfront payment for 
signing a product development agreement with a major Japanese 
company, whose products include LCD TVs. This agreement, which 
followed an 18 month JDA, is focused on the final steps in combining 
CFQD™ into an LCD TV for commercial launch. We are currently refining 
the CFQD™ so as to meet the technical specification for the customer’s 
TV, as part of the iterative design and development process between 
Nanoco and our customer. The TV incorporating the CFQD™ in the  
LED backlight unit will benefit from the superior colour performance  
of CFQD™ and is expected to generate cost savings through a reduction  
in LED chip complexity. Much effort by Nanoco and our customer  
is currently being put into engineering the CFQD™ onto the next 
generation backlight systems. We continue to be unclear as to the 
precise timing of commercial launch for these products which is 
controlled by our customer, however we believe that shipments  
of materials will commence during the 2012/13 financial year.
LED lighting
Our most recent JDA was signed in August 2011 with one of the world’s 
largest lighting companies. It marks our first agreement focused solely 
on general lighting and it was signed with a large Western company. 
The objective of the JDA is to incorporate CFQD™ into the lighting 
company’s LEDs to create LED lighting systems with the superior 
performance characteristics required for widespread residential and 
commercial use.
This is an exciting opportunity, exploiting the ability of Nanoco’s 
CFQD™ to transform the blue light from an LED into white light with  
a high colour rendering index. Current methods for producing white 
light from a blue LED tend to be weak in the red wavelengths, giving  
the two problems, that the light lacks warmth and fails to show true 
colours. CFQD™ can overcome these problems, unlocking the many 
advantages of LEDs including reduced power consumption, long  
service life and compact size.
Nanoco Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Review of the Year
We have started to diversify geographically 
and are now active in Japan, Korea, Taiwan 
and USA.
Solar
Our solar energy JDA with Tokyo Electron, a major Japanese  
equipment supplier, has also progressed extremely well. In November 
2010, we received a milestone payment for successfully developing  
a nanomaterial solar ink, which can be printed to form a thin film 
through techniques developed by Tokyo Electron. This thin film is the 
active solar absorber area which is incorporated into a material stack  
to create a low cost solar cell. We successfully exceeded all the Phase 1 
JDA targets which led to both companies signing a Phase 2 agreement 
in September of this year. This second phase will generate significant 
milestone payments to Nanoco and is expected to last for 12 months. 
It will focus on continuing to increase the solar cell performance, 
process-ability and cost reduction. 
Our solar ink is based on nanoparticles which have been developed  
and manufactured by the Company to maximise their effectiveness  
in absorbing solar energy. These nanoparticles are printed using low 
cost methods and then annealed into a solar active film layer. 
The solar market is huge and growing. We are pleased to be working  
in partnership with Tokyo Electron to optimise the technology and 
eventually bring it to market. 
Other applications
There are many applications for Nanoco’s CFQD™. We continue  
in discussions with potential partners across a range of applications  
and have been approached by an increasing number of companies 
interested in including CFQD™ in their products.
One such application is the work the Company is currently doing with 
University College London, on using CFQD™ for in-vivo imaging of cancer. 
Summary
The year to 31 July 201 1 was one of real momentum in our business.  
We made major steps forward in the development of our technology and 
intellectual property, we built and commissioned our first manufacturing 
plant, we made significant progress in our commercial contracts and we 
strengthened our balance sheet for the next stage in our development. 
The Company also broadened its commercial relationships to include  
LED general lighting in addition to LCD backlighting and solar energy.  
All of our commercial relationships are progressing well.
We successfully expanded our activities in our key markets of Japan, 
Korea, Taiwan and the USA and expect further positive news from 
these territories going forward.
This momentum has continued into the current year, which has started 
well. We look forward to making further technical and commercial 
progress in the months ahead, building on our position as a high-tech 
manufacturer with unique IP .
Michael Edelman
Chief Executive Officer
14 October 2011
