 8
Chairman’s Statement
AS WELL AS ACHIEVING ORGANIC GROWTH ACROSS MOST OF OUR OPERATIONS,WE EXTENDED OUR PRESENCE
IN THE PUBLIC TRANSPORT MARKET THROUGH BOTH NEW CONTRACT WINS AND ACQUISITIONS IN EXISTING
AND NEW MARKETS.
I am pleased to report the Group’s results for the
year ended 31 December 2005.
This year will be remembered for the tragic events
of the London bus and tube bombings.The Group
has many operations in and around London and
many of our colleagues were close to, or involved
in, the aftermath of the events.Whilst our
operations were not directly affected, we are proud
that many of our employees played an active role in
assisting Londoners during this difficult period. I
would like to take this opportunity to thank them
for their commitment and their tremendous efforts
in reassuring the public, getting services back to
normal and working alongside the teams from the
emergency services during this difficult time.
In December Alsa, Spain’s largest private coach and
bus operator, owned by the Cosmen family, joined
the Group. In one transaction we achieved critical
mass in a major European country which has good
growth prospects, gaining sustainable earnings at
above average margins.
Alsa is a long established business with an
experienced management team who are keen to
drive the business forward.The quality of its
product delivery has earned Alsa a first class
reputation as both an operator and employer in the
Spanish public transport market. Operating in the
Spanish regulated coach and bus markets, Alsa has
extensive contracts, with an average life of nine
years, which provides stable earnings.These features
provide stability to the Group’s earnings.
Recognising the opportunities that exist in the
enlarged company, the Cosmen family acquired a
substantial shareholding in the Group and we are
delighted that Jorge Cosmen has joined the Group
Board as a Non Executive Director.
This development gives the Group a significant
combined coaching operation, enabling the transfer 
of best practice between two major businesses.
Our initial focus has been the integration of Alsa’s
financial and reporting systems, which is currently
on schedule. Our management teams are already
working well together to identify cost synergies,
particularly in procurement, risk management and
IT.We believe there are many opportunities to
grow this business by the use of better yield
management and improved marketing. In addition,
we will be drawing on our experience in the UK
coach market to reduce Alsa’s cost of sales.The
respective cultures of National Express and Alsa
have significant similarities which should enable the
integration plan to be fully delivered by the end of
this year.We are pleased with the progress we have
made to date and are confident that we can
achieve the benefits identified when we announced
this strategic move.
This year we revised our North American strategy
to focus on our highly successful school bus
operations where our strong reputation with our
customers delivers a high quality and reliable
earnings stream. Consequently, we sold ATC, our
Public Transit business, during the year.
As part of the rail remapping, we have agreed with
the Department for Transport (“DfT”) to align our
Central Trains, Silverlink and Midland Mainline
franchises to run until the end of 2007.We are
currently in discussions with the DfT to agree the
financial arrangements around the new extensions.
On the next round of bidding during 2006 we will
focus on franchises where we are incumbent and,
as a consequence, we have withdrawn from the
competition for the South Western franchise.
David Ross
Chairman
“We remain confident that the
foundations are in place to
enhance shareholder value
through organic and acquisitive
growth whilst maintaining
dividend and share buy-backs.” 9
Following the announcement relating to the GN/Thameslink
and Greater Western rail franchises, the employees of Wagn
and Wessex Trains will leave the Group on 31 March this
year. I would like to thank them for their contribution whilst
part of the Group and wish them all the best for the future.
As part of our succession planning process and following a
thorough selection process, I am delighted that following the
retirement of Brian Jackson, Denis Wormwell was appointed
Chief Executive of our UK Bus division in February.
Consequently, Paul Bunting moved from Midland Mainline to
replace Denis as Chief Executive of our UK Coach division.
THE BOARD 
After what will be ten years as Chief Executive, Phil White
has decided he will be retiring from the Group by the end of
this year. Phil started his career with the Group in 1994 as
Finance Director of Travel West Midlands and was appointed
Chief Executive of the Group in January 1997. He guided the
Group’s entry into North America and subsequently into
continental Europe with the Alsa transaction.The Board is
unanimous in thanking Phil for his contribution over the years
and wishes him well for what the next stage in his life will
bring. On a personal level I would like to thank Phil most
sincerely for his help and support since commencing my
tenure as Chairman in May 2004.The process to find a
successor is now underway.
I am also pleased to report that this year Phil White has
taken on the role as President of the Confederation of
Passenger Transport, the national trade association
representing the UK bus, coach and light-rail operators.
Furthermore, with the Group’s interests in rail, Ray O’Toole
joined the British Transport Police Authority as an Authority
member.
On 21 September 2005, Barry Gibson was appointed senior
independent director following Tim Stevenson’s resignation
from the Board. I would like to thank Tim for his valuable
contribution.
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND
Turnover was £2.2 billion (2004*: £2.4 billion) and normalised
Group operating profit increased by 8.5% to £155.5 million
(2004*: £143.3 million). After interest and the Group’s share
of losses from associated undertakings, normalised profit
before tax was £135.3 million (2004*: £122.2 million).
Normalised diluted earnings per share from continuing
operations were 76.3 pence (2004: 69.3 pence).
We are recommending a final dividend of 22.25 pence per
ordinary share (2004: 20.65 pence), an increase of 7.7%, to 
be paid on 26 May 2006 to shareholders on the register at
28 April 2006. Including the interim dividend, the proposed
total dividend for the year is 32.25 pence per ordinary share
(2004: 30.0 pence).We shall also be recommencing our
£100 million share buy-back programme, subject to market
conditions.
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK
The current year has started well.We have experienced good
operational performance across all our divisions and achieved
early successes in the current US school bid season.We are
making good progress with the integration of Alsa and believe
this division will play a key role in the Group’s future growth
prospects.
