 7
Highlights of the Y ear…
Quarter 1
In January, Midland Mainline achieved its best ever punctuality, with 94.3% of trains reaching
their destinations on time.Throughout 2005, MML was the most punctual long-distance train
operator.
On entering the London bus market in 2004,Travel London worked in partnership
with Transport for London to develop a new bus depot in South London. In February,
Ken Livingstone, Mayor of London, opened the National Express Group Walworth bus garage
in South London.
In March, the Group sponsored a one-day ‘Delivering better bus transport’
conference in Birmingham.This provided a platform for key stakeholders, including the
transport industry, politicians and the media, to discuss how the role of the bus should
contribute to integrated transport and economic prosperity in the West Midlands and other
major UK conurbations.
Quarter 2
In June, the Group acquired the London bus division of Tellings Golden Miller.These
operations in South West London and Surrey have been integrated into Travel London, which
now has a fleet of 400 vehicles and operates from six depots.
The Group acquired Northstar Passenger Services, one of Canada’s largest operators
in the student bus market. Its 800 buses and 850 employees have now been fully integrated
into the Group’s Canadian operation, Stock Transportation.
Midland Mainline launched its schools education programme – Momentum –
in four cities across its Sheffield to London route.Through Momentum, MML works with
students as part of the Citizenship and Personal, Social and Health Education national
curriculum module.
Quarter 3
After extensive research, and having worked closely with the Mobility and Inclusion Unit
of the Department for Transport, the Coach division launched its innovative, DDA compliant,
fully integrated, easy-access vehicle, the Levante coach, enabling wheelchair users, people with
mobility impairments and the elderly to travel in comfort.
To support and raise awareness of local issues around its operations in their
respective regions, the Group sponsored the regional West Midlands and South East
receptions at the Labour Party Conference in Brighton.
Wessex Trains, in conjunction with its partners, achieved great success at the inaugural
National Community Rail Awards, organised by the Association of Community Rail Partnerships.
Wessex Trains’ Devon and Cornwall Community Rail Partnership was named the overall winner
and Community Operator of the Y ear for its innovative Tamar Valley Carnet Ticket scheme.
Quarter 4
In recognition of its work with local partners to improve the quality of local bus services,
Travel Dundee signed the UK’s first Statutory Quality Bus Partnership alongside Dundee City
Council and the Scottish Executive. In November Travel Dundee was the winner of the
Scottish Public Transport Operator of the Year award at the Scottish Transport Awards.
In December, the Group completed the acquisition of Alsa, Spain’s leading private
coach and bus operator, gaining an immediate presence in an attractive growth market.
Alsa’s President, Jorge Cosmen, joined the Group Board as a Non Executive Director.
With a growing presence in the Greater London area, a Group initiative supported
the Greater London Authority’s Labour Group’s annual event at City Hall, attended by a
number of Labour MPs, councillors and trades union representatives.This gave the Group the
opportunity to promote its London operations.
Here are a selection of events and initiatives which 
took place across our operations during the year.
Walworth bus depot opening
with Ken Livingstone, Mayor
of London and Val Shawcross,
Greater London Assembly
Member, joined by Paul
McGowan, Managing Director
Travel London
The MML Momentum project
Labour Party Conference with
T ony Blair, Prime Minister
Alsa acquired in December
