 10
Chief Executive’s Report
Phil White
Chief Executive
THIS YEAR THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT TAKES ON A NEW QUESTION AND ANSWER FORMAT. THIS BRINGS
TOGETHER THE QUESTIONS MOST FREQUENTLY ASKED OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE, PHIL WHITE, AND COVERS AREAS SUCH
AS HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR AND THE STRATEGIC FOCUS OF THE GROUP .
Q WHAT HAVE BEEN THE HIGHLIGHTS OF THE 
PAST YEAR?
A This has been an excellent year as our results
clearly show and, at the same time, there have also
been some significant moves for the Group.
The most impressive was undoubtedly the deal
which saw us join up with Alsa in the Spanish
transport market. Alsa is not only Spain’s leading
private coach and bus operator – it is also 
a quality business that I have admired for 
many years.
I’m pleased to welcome the Alsa management
team into the National Express Group.We’ve
wanted to enter a major continental European
market for some time, but we needed to find the
right way with the right purchase. I believe that
Alsa is that ‘right purchase’ and I’m confident that it
brings tremendous opportunities for growth, both
organically and through acquisition. Alsa is a long
established family business with a very strong,
professional, management team that was keen
to join the National Express family.
I’m delighted that the Cosmen family has taken a
large shareholding in the Group, with Jorge Cosmen
joining the Board as a Non Executive Director.
It is our aim to move Alsa from a family owned
business to an international organisation while
retaining its core values. It is helpful that Alsa, like
National Express, believes in local autonomy for
management, quality services and supporting its
employees through training and development.
There is a great willingness on the part of the Alsa
management team to be fully integrated into the
Group, demonstrated by the tremendous energy
that is being put into our integration project.
Another milestone which occurred this year is 
the Government’s proposal to introduce demand
management of traffic congestion in our cities as
this will have a positive impact on the use of public
transport. I would like to congratulate Alistair
Darling, Secretary of State for Transport, for 
having the courage to take this important but
tough decision.
Our team has turned in an excellent performance
during the year and it has been a privilege to lead
them. Our coach, bus, rail and North American
student transportation activities have all made
great strides in terms of quality performance,
customer satisfaction and employee engagement.
Q AND WHAT HAVE BEEN THE LOW POINTS?
A The tragic events of 7 July in London were
undoubtedly one of the worst events of 2005,
particularly as they followed on the back of the
excitement of the 2012 Olympics award to
London.This was a devastating event for
everybody, especially those connected with our
capital city, and I want to put on record my
appreciation of the emergency services and our
staff who coped so admirably in very challenging
circumstances. Of course, our difficulties pale into
insignificance compared to those who suffered loss
or injury and my greatest sympathies are with
those families affected.The follow-up alerts on 
21 July which were thankfully thwarted, and
subsequent alarms in major cities such as
Birmingham further damaged confidence in 
public transport and it has taken many months 
to regain our customers’ trust.
“I genuinely believe that
we have achieved much
this year, positioning the
Group well for the future.” 11
Like everybody in our industry, I am shocked by the level of
crime that takes place on our services and around our
facilities. Our depots, terminals and stations are part of the
fabric of the community and the safety of our customers and
employees is of paramount concern.We are actively working
with British Transport Police, the Department for Transport
and other stakeholders to identify ways to cut crime and
improve security.
Q WHAT HAS BEEN THE MAIN MANAGEMENT FOCUS
THIS YEAR?
A In our day-to-day business, we focus on our customers as
they are our top priority. And that’s true regardless of
whether they’re travelling by train to a meeting in London or
on a yellow school bus in Toronto. Punctuality, reliability and
safety are the keys to our business.We’ve taken an industry
lead in managing the switch from an operations led business
to a customer focused business.We look at the journey as a
whole experience, from the moment a customer thinks
about buying a ticket. It’s not just about when they’re on
board one of our services.
And one key element of ensuring we understand our
customers’ expectations is being able to get the views of 
our employees who are in the front-line of our operations.
They have first hand experience of what our customers 
think about the quality of our services.We regularly seek our
employees’ views to identify those areas where we feel we
could do better.
Q HOW DOES THE GROUP DIFFER FROM ITS PEERS?
A At National Express Group we have strong local management
teams running our businesses. Local decisions are taken by
local managers to ensure local delivery. Operational
performance is a priority and during this year we made great
progress, particularly in our Trains division, as is shown by the
industry performance and customer satisfaction figures.We
constantly think of ways to work smarter. Our re-engineering
process in North America is an illustration of this.We always
look at new initiatives to drive our business forward –
whether it’s looking at new ways to do things such as new
pools of recruitment eg Polish drivers, or new technology
such as mobile ticketing.There is always a better way to
operate – and we are always looking for new ideas.
Q HOW HAVE YOU GROWN THE BUSINESS?
A We have seen a steady increase in patronage throughout the
year.We are seeing more and more customers wanting niche
products, such as our Premier commuter bus service in
Birmingham. At the same time, we have introduced a number
of fares initiatives – such as airline-type fares on Midland
Mainline – that are designed to appeal to a broader range of
customer and encourage off-peak travel.We always aim to
provide our customers with the best value for money fares,
although we have been hit by the increased cost of fuel
during the year.
Q HOW HAVE RELATIONSHIPS WITH KEY STAKEHOLDERS
DEVELOPED DURING THE YEAR?
A Good relationships with stakeholders are absolutely key if we
want to develop the quality of services that our customers
expect.We can only provide this if we have the right rail and
road infrastructure and this is where we need the help of
government. Airlines can’t operate without airports, trains
need tracks and buses and coaches depend on an effective
road network.
During the year, we were pleased to sign a Statutory Quality
Partnership with Dundee City Council and the Scottish
Executive to further improve bus services around Dundee.
We also worked closely with Centro and the West Midlands
Passenger Transport Authority which are both key partners
to the successful operation of our Birmingham bus business.
We hosted a major bus conference in Birmingham looking at
the positive initiatives that are taking place in the bus market.
2005 also saw us working closely with central Government
on the rail remapping and helping with the establishment of
the DfT as the new body responsible for rail refranchising.
Q WHAT DOES THE GROUP WANT TO BE KNOWN FOR?
WHAT DOES IT STAND FOR?
A Our business values are all about; being easy and simple;
being open and honest; taking the lead and working together.
These are the foundations for our reputation as a quality
business – and that’s something we’re committed to
maintaining and improving.
We aim to deliver for all our stakeholders, especially our
passengers.We want to be open and honest and not let
people down.We want to be ahead of the game in terms 
of innovation – introducing new concepts such as the easy-
access Levante coach and implementing new technology
such as mobile ticketing machines plus a variety of other
initiatives that help our customers when they travel with us.
We want to earn the reputation for being good to do
business with, whether as a partner, supplier or customer.
For shareholders, we want to be known for providing value,
for running a dynamic business efficiently and for achieving
solid and sustainable growth.
We aim to be an employer of choice and we need to ensure
that we do our best to attract and retain top quality people.
Q HOW DOES THE GROUP INTEND TO GET FROM WHERE
IT IS TO WHERE IT WANTS TO BE?
A We will continue to focus on giving customers more and
better reasons to travel with us more often.We will also
continue to test new markets where we can add value to
existing businesses and grow them.
As always, our employees will play a vital – in fact THE most
vital – role in this process.This is a people business and our
front-line employees such as bus and coach drivers and
the on-train teams are the face, the eyes and the ears
of our business. 12
We greatly value the information that our annual employee
survey brings to the business and we use it to make sure that
we meet customer and employee needs. In our experience,
when our employees are happy, our customers are happy.
Training and development remain central to our business.We
have a good track record of investing in our people and this
will continue in 2006, making full use of our new customer
service academies in Birmingham, Derby and London which
provide centres of excellence where skills can be transferred
across our people.We are also introducing new training
initiatives including a new leadership development programme.
Q WHAT ARE THE KEY RISKS FOR THE GROUP?
A We aim to be transparent with all our stakeholders.
Our Annual Report and Corporate Responsibility Report
highlight the key issues for the Group.
In common with all companies in the transport sector, we
face the risk of disruption to our business through
circumstances beyond our control.
Of those risks that are directly related to our business,
the greatest is that we cease to offer the products that 
our customers want. No customers means no revenue,
profit or, ultimately, no business.We regularly carry out
customer satisfaction surveys to make sure we understand
their changing expectations.
We also need to ensure that we have the right people in
place to build our business, therefore we are investing in
recruiting and retaining high quality people.
Q WHAT ARE THE CHALLENGES FOR THE YEAR AHEAD?
A I believe the key challenges for 2006 are:
– Developing the customer base across our businesses and
having a better understanding of our customers’ needs.
– Seeking to grow the business, particularly in the off-peak
leisure market.
– Ensuring that Alsa is effectively integrated into the business.
– Transferring best practice between both our coach
operations.
– Aiming to keep ahead of our rivals and to anticipate
changes in customer demand.
– And finally, continuing to manage our cost base.
From a strategic point of view, we will continue to focus on
growing the business, both organically and also by acquisition.
We remain open to opportunities, wherever and whenever
they are presented.We have to seize opportunities when they
arise, as we did with Alsa. I believe we are well placed to
achieve these goals.
Q WHERE WILL THE GROUP BE IN FIVE YEARS’ TIME?
A On a personal level, I have announced my intention to retire
this year, after twelve years with the Group, with ten years as
Chief Executive. It has been both a challenging and rewarding
experience and I am indebted to my colleagues for their
support over the years.
In five years’ time I think we will have a bigger and better
National Express Group.We will continue to grow in UK
buses and coaches, with a larger presence in London. Our UK
train portfolio will be balanced and deliver quality earnings.
We are aiming to be a leading market player in North
America and to have a growing business in Spain. In addition
we will seek other opportunities in new markets where our
core skills can be exploited.
I genuinely believe that we have achieved much this year,
positioning the Group well for the future.
Chief Executive’s Report (continued)
