 Strategic Report
Chairman’s letter
Differentiated proposition to create 
superior shareholder value
Dear shareholder, 
I am pleased that National Express has continued to deliver a strong 
financial and operational performance in 2014. I believe this progress 
and success demonstrate our strategy is delivering the services our 
customers want and thereby creating value for our shareholders.
Important progress
2014 saw passenger growth in every division, key contracts retained 
and significant new markets entered. We have a diversified portfolio of 
businesses that are all market leaders. This not only provides a platform 
for financial progress – this is the fifth year of core non-rail profit growth 
and we have again beaten our free cash targets – but it also provides 
opportunities for new growth.
We begin our German rail services later this year. We have already 
started our bus operations in Bahrain. A key aspect of our success in 
both has been the strength of our reputation in our existing markets.
This is why I am particularly pleased with our customer satisfaction 
scores across the business and the strong partnerships we have in 
place. When we have met customers, in the UK and abroad, the Board 
has been impressed by the strength of our relationships and the level 
of service delivered. We believe this demonstrates that the company 
remains focused on delivering for our customers, obviously crucial in 
sustaining the progress we have made in recent years.
Dividend
Our financial performance in 2014 means we retain our clear and 
sustainable dividend policy: to pay a dividend that is covered 
approximately twice by non-rail earnings. The Board is recommending 
that the dividend is increased to 10.3 pence which represents a 3% 
increase for the year as a whole. Subject to approval by shareholders, 
the final dividend will be paid out on 22 May 2015 to shareholders on 
the register on 1 May 2015.
Board
As I said last year, optimising the skills, diversity and experience of the 
Board is a crucial consideration. I am grateful for the experience and 
expertise Jane Kingston has brought to the Board, especially on HR 
issues. For example, the Board now reviews a quarterly Human Capital 
Report prepared by the Group HR Director, covering important issues 
and trends in the business such as turnover, diversity and succession.
After ten years of invaluable service, Sir Andrew Foster announced last 
year that he will be standing down from the Board at the AGM. Jackie 
Hunt has also recently announced she is stepping down as a Non-
Executive Director after three years with the Group and will not seek 
re-election at the AGM. I would personally like to thank Andrew and 
Jackie for their wise counsel and support during my time at National 
Express. On behalf of the Board, I would like to wish them both well 
for the future.
We are well underway with the recruitment of Sir Andrew’s and Jackie’s 
replacements. My aim is that they will bring new and complementary 
skills to strengthen the Board as we meet future opportunities and 
challenges. I expect to make an announcement soon. I am very pleased 
that Lee Sander has agreed to become Senior Independent Director, 
to replace Jackie.
Again, on behalf of the whole Board I would also like to thank 
Jez Maiden for his significant contribution to the Group and the Board 
as Group Finance Director. Jez left the company for Croda International 
at the end of 2014. Jez played a particularly crucial role in both stabilising 
the Company in 2009 and the progress since. Again, I wish him all the 
best for the future.
Finally, I am delighted to announce that Matthew Ashley was appointed 
as the new Group Finance Director at the end of January. Matthew was 
previously Finance Director for UK Bus and Group Financial Controller 
and therefore brings significant financial, corporate and operational 
experience to the role. I look forward to continuing to work with him. 
Sir John Armitt
Chairman 
26 February 2015
Governance highlights 
• Corporate governance provides a framework within which 
the Board sets its values and delivers long-term success for 
the Company and its investors whilst recognising its duties 
towards the wider stakeholder community. 
• Through challenge and the application of objectivity in 
considering proposals on strategy, the Board’s role in its 
oversight continues to be fundamental in order to achieve 
the objectives required for driving our business forward.
• The 2014 external performance evaluation of the Board and 
its Committees concluded that the Board continues to operate 
effectively and that its structure, governance and processes 
are appropriate for our current and future business. 
• Engagement with shareholders during 2014 has proven to be 
a valuable exercise in the Board’s understanding of their views 
on issues which are pertinent to National Express. As a result 
of such open dialogue, a restructured remuneration policy for 
our Executive Directors is being proposed at this year’s 
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’).
 Read more p46
National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 4
