 04 Group Chief Executive’s Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Group Chief Executive’s Review
Our aim to be the world’s premier network utility, 
and the delivery of our strategy, are both at the heart 
of our day-to-day activities. 
Strategy
As an infrastructure-based network
provider, it is essential that we deliver high
standards of service and reliability as well
as outperforming our benchmarks and
regulatory targets. We need to continue
managing our regulatory relationships
successfully to benefit both our customers
and shareholders. Our disciplined approach
to capital management remains paramount. 
Progress
Delivering our strategy involves the
continued focus on our key strengths of
operational excellence, our ability to exceed
our efficiency targets and our prudent 
use of capital. Investment in our current
businesses and strategic opportunities are
made only where we believe we can create
shareholder value. 
Our regulatory controls provide significant
incentives towards improving operational
efficiency by permitting the sharing of the
benefits of increased efficiencies between
energy users and shareholders. This year
we added to National Grid’s impressive
cost-efficiency track record when UK gas
distribution achieved its cost-efficiency
target one year early.
Investment
†
Investment in our networks remains a
priority for the Group. Total investment
reached £2 billion this year, up by one third
over last year’s £1.5 billion. We project a
further rise to around £2.5 billion per annum
over the next five years. Investment is rising
across the Group with the largest increases
in our UK regulated businesses.
New investment in UK electricity
transmission is being driven largely by 
asset replacement which reflects the age
and condition of the network. UK gas
transmission investment is also increasing,
but here it is primarily due to new
infrastructure required to meet the changing
gas supply pattern as the UK becomes a net
importer of gas. This includes our largest
ever project, connecting the new liquefied
natural gas (LNG) terminals currently being
built at Milford Haven. This will require
investment of more than £750 million over
the next two years. 
Our disciplined approach to capital
management is also reflected in the strategic
moves we made during the year. On 1 June
2005, we completed the sales of four of
our regional gas distribution networks for 
a total cash consideration of £5.8 billion. 
This creates what is in effect a new gas
distribution market in the UK. We have
retained four of the networks, which together
represent the largest of the UK gas
distribution businesses. We look forward to
setting new levels of efficiency for the benefit
of both our customers and shareholders.
The network sales led directly to the
£2 billion return of value to shareholders, 
at 65 pence per share, which we made in
August. This was one of the largest returns
of value ever for a UK company.
This year we also commissioned Phase I 
of our LNG import terminal at the Isle of
Grain in Kent. The facility has the capability
to import and process 3.3 million tonnes 
of LNG per year. Construction of Phase II 
is now under way, which will triple capacity
by the end of 2008. When complete, our
total investment will be around £500 million
and the facility will have the capacity to
import around 13% of the current UK annual
gas demand.
In February 2006, we announced the
agreed acquisition of KeySpan Corporation,
a major US energy delivery company, for
$7.3 billion (£4.2 billion) plus assumed debt
of approximately $4.5 billion (£2.6 billion). 
£2,527m 
Adjusted operating
profit*
Adjusted operating profit* 
by business £m
 844 UK electricity and gas transmission
 127 US electricity transmission
 483 UK gas distribution
 364 US electricity and gas distribution
 489 US stranded cost recoveries
 75 Wireless infrastructure
 145 Other activities
844
127
483
364
489
75
145
†
Continuing operations
* Excludes the impact of exceptional items and remeasurements Group Chief Executive’s Review 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
It is the largest distributor of natural gas 
in the northeastern US with approximately
2.6 million customers. In the same month,
we announced the acquisition of gas
distribution assets from the Southern Union
Company for cash consideration of
$498 million (£286 million) and assumed
debt of $77 million (£44 million).
Both acquisitions have an excellent
strategic, operational and geographic fit.
They are a natural extension of our business
and will expand the Group’s growth
platform as well as creating substantial
opportunities for new cost savings. 
Financial performance
†
The Group’s financial performance for
2005/06 has been strong. Adjusted 
profit before tax* and adjusted earnings 
per share* were 11% and 10% higher
respectively than last year while operating
cash flows were more than £3 billion.
The performance of all our individual
businesses has been encouraging. UK
transmission has entered an investment-led
growth phase. During the year, the Group
invested £584 million in new electricity and
gas infrastructure and a further £265 million
replacing assets that were nearing the end
of their useful technical life. The increased
investment, as well as the write-off of certain
assets, led to an increase in depreciation
and amortisation. This increase was
partially offset by successful capacity
auctions resulting in adjusted operating
profit* of £844 million compared with 
£859 million last year. US electricity
transmission had another good year with
adjusted operating profit* of £127 million.
UK gas distribution results were particularly
strong as adjusted operating profit* was 
up 14% at £483 million compared with
£424 million last year. This performance is
primarily due to the reduction in operating
expenditure (excluding shrinkage), which
was down £52 million, as a result of our
‘Way Ahead’ programme. Controllable
costs have been cut by 35% in real terms
since March 2002.
Adjusted operating profit* for US electricity
and gas distribution was down 3% at
£364 million, primarily due to timing
differences related to pension charges and
commodity costs. The majority of these costs
will be recovered in future periods. Adjusting
for these items, profits were broadly flat,
since weather-normalised residential
volume growth of 1.7% was offset by
higher depreciation and amortisation.
The enlarged Wireless infrastructure
business had a strong first full year as a
member of the Group. Adjusted operating
profit* was £75 million and the business
met its £18 million annualised cash 
synergy target. Growth from broadcast
was particularly strong reflecting the
successful launch of three new channels.
We are expecting double-digit organic
operating profit growth over the medium term.
Other activities contributed £145 million to
adjusted operating profit*, a decrease of
£7 million from 2004/05. National Grid
Metering has delivered strong performance,
with adjusted operating profit* up £28 million.
The business made good progress in driving
operational efficiency, which together with
growth in our competitive metering business,
more than offset a decline in regulated
metering revenue. Adjusted operating profit*
from National Grid Property at £88 million
was £14 million less than last year. National
Grid Grain, our new LNG import terminal,
contributed £6 million of adjusted operating
profit* after coming on line in July.
Safety
Safety is at the centre of everything we 
do. Over the past 12 months we have 
maintained an encouraging improvement in
our safety performance across the Group.
Against these very significant improvements
over the past three years, it is all the more
tragic that one of our colleagues was
overcome by gas and died while re-laying
a gas service pipe in our UK gas
distribution business. 
This very sad incident underlines the
fundamental importance of safety in all 
that we do. It serves as a stark reminder 
to ensure that we continue to develop and
implement ever safer ways of working for
the protection of ourselves, our colleagues,
our contractors and members of the public. 
Outlook
The environment in which National Grid
operates is ever more challenging and
complex. However, I am confident that 
we have a strong and clear strategy that
underpins everything we do and that will
benefit all our stakeholders. Our growth is
expected to be driven by new investments,
new efficiencies and selected expansion 
in our current businesses. 
You will have seen from Sir John’s
statement that I intend to retire at the end
of 2006. It has been my privilege to lead
National Grid through a series of major
changes. Our success is built on the talent,
commitment and effort of everyone in
National Grid. With that continuing support
and his outstanding record leading UK
transmission and UK distribution, I am
confident that Steve Holliday will lead 
the Group to new levels of success.
Roger Urwin 
Group Chief Executive
