 Strategic Report: 
Group Chief Executive’s Review
Operational excellence lies at the heart 
of everything we do
Overview of 2013
National Express has delivered a strong 
financial performance in 2013. Normalised 
Group profit before tax was £143.7 million, 
ahead of our target, with a fourth consecutive 
record year for operating profit in our core  
non-rail business. Total Group revenue grew  
3% and we secured £1.8 billion of future revenue 
from markets where we didn’t operate just  
two years ago. We generated over £180 million  
of free cash flow and reduced our net debt  
by over £80 million.
This reflects the good progress we have made 
in 2013 against each of our three strategic 
goals. First, in our core markets we grew both 
revenue and non-rail profit. This is part of our 
‘Operational Excellence’ programme, with  
each division committed to delivering better 
customer service and lower costs. Second,  
we have delivered excellent cash flow, which  
we have used to reinvest in the business,  
pay an increased dividend to shareholders 
and pay down debt. Third, we have generated 
growth in new markets, which offer future 
revenue and profit potential to supplement  
our existing businesses. 
We have exceeded our profit and cash 
generation expectations. At the start of 2013, 
we recognised the challenging headwinds 
we faced – a total of £39 million of fuel price 
inflation, ongoing impacts from government 
austerity cuts in the UK, North America and 
Spain, pension accounting changes, and the 
loss of contribution from the National Express 
East Anglia (NXEA) rail franchise which ended 
during 2012. We have delivered £21 million in 
profit from revenue growth and £30 million in 
cost savings and synergy. Whilst the reduction 
in rail profits led to 2013 Group profit before 
tax declining to £143.7 million (2012: £164. 1m), 
normalised operating profit from our core  
non-rail businesses reached a record level  
of £185.5 million (2012: £185.2m).
Our core businesses, in diversified international 
bus and coach markets, are providing a strong 
platform for growth. Group revenue increased by 
3% to £1.89 billion (2012: £1.83bn), with revenue 
growth in every division except rail. UK Coach 
was the standout success, as it bounced back 
from the impact of the previous withdrawal of 
senior citizen concession funding. Excluding 
one-off Olympics profits in 2012, UK Coach 
profit increased by 30% year-on-year. The key 
was to give customers what they wanted – 
easy access to lower fares, more frequent and 
punctual services and investment in our third 
party operated fleet of modern coaches.
Excellent customer service also drove success 
in the North America business. 97% contract 
retention in School Bus led to a record operating 
profit in 2013, supported by the second year 
of a programme to improve operating margin 
and return on capital by contract. Conditions 
were challenging for our other divisions – UK 
Bus increased profit contribution through cost 
efficiency and fleet investment, but overall profit 
fell due to pension accounting changes and 
the reduction in government fuel duty rebate 
from 2012. Spain suffered a 7% reduction in 
operating profit, reflecting a challenging trading 
environment in the face of economic recession 
and the Eurozone crisis. Improved customer 
service, reduced costs and winning new 
contracts, such as Guadalajara and Tangiers, 
were key to offsetting these headwinds. 
For our investors, we are backing our revenue 
and profit performance with strong cash 
generation and an improving return on capital 
employed. At the beginning of 2013, we set 
ourselves the targets of delivering £125 to  
£150 million of free cash flow and increasing  
our pre-tax return on capital from our core  
non-rail business (‘ROCE’). We achieved 
over £180 million of free cash flow in 2013 
and increased ROCE to 1 1. 1% (2012: 10.6%). 
Net debt reduced to £7 46. 1 million (2012: 
£828.2m). We continue to invest in our fleet 
but are using capital more efficiently, reflecting 
economic conditions in Spain and our margin 
improvement programme in North America. 
Our reputation, operational expertise and 
contracting know-how in the UK, Spain and 
North America is being leveraged to create  
new business opportunities in selected markets 
and geographies. Over the last two years we 
have invested to build business development 
teams with the skills and experience to deliver 
success in target contract and concession 
markets and are currently working on a 
pipeline of opportunities worth over £10 billion 
of revenue. In 2013, this produced sizeable 
contract wins and new business opportunities, 
securing £1.8 billion of future revenue from new 
markets. In Germany we won our first two rail 
Dean Finch
Group Chief Executive 
27 February 2014
External view – Safety 
“Driving Out Harm is an exemplar safety 
improvement programme, and has led to  
a 50% reduction in harm in just two years. 
The leadership of safety from the Group 
Chief Executive is as strong and effective as 
we’ve seen anywhere and is transforming 
the culture of safety throughout the Group.”
Richard Clarke, 
Director, Arthur D Little
06 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 contracts and launched coach services in  
the newly liberalised domestic market. In US 
Transit we have won five new contracts, taking 
annual revenue to $80 million in just 18 months.  
Building on our operational excellence in c2c, 
the UK’s best performing and customer rated 
rail franchise, we have submitted strong bids for 
the Essex Thameside and Crossrail contracts 
and successfully prequalified for the ScotRail bid. 
In total, we invested £25.7 million in exceptional 
costs to drive new business development,  
cost efficiency and acquisition integration.
Highlights
Highlights of 2013 included:
• The Group delivered 7% growth in total 
non-rail revenue, increasing core non-rail 
business operating profit for the fourth year in 
succession and delivering non-rail normalised 
earnings per share (‘EPS’) of 20. 1 pence.  
With a robust policy to cover regular 
dividends approximately two times from  
non-rail earnings, the full year proposed 
dividend has increased 3% to 10.0 pence. 
Free cash flow beat the enhanced target  
set in July 2013 by over £30 million.
• UK Coach grew total revenue 3%, with 
express passenger revenue 7% higher and 
volume growth in all core segments. Driven 
by better pricing, improved punctuality and 
new distribution agreements, operating 
margin exceeded 9% for this capital-light 
business which generated over £30 million  
in operating cash.
• North America grew total revenue by 10%, 
successfully completing the integration of  
the Petermann school bus acquisition from 
2012 and winning new transit contracts.  
97% contract retention, conversion bid 
success and a focus on investing only in 
contracts generating adequate returns led  
to a five percentage point improvement  
in pre-tax return on assets (‘ROA’) to 22%,  
and operating cash generation of almost 
US$200 million in 2013.
• UK Bus grew commercial revenue by 2%, 
launched commercial smartcards in the  
West Midlands and signed a ground-
breaking agreement with Centro, the West 
Midlands Integrated Transport Authority,  
to jointly develop new bus opportunities.  
Cost efficiency and new fleet increased profit 
contribution before pension accounting and 
BSOG fuel duty impacts.
• Spain saw profit fall due to the impact of 
recession and rail competition on intercity 
coach patronage, but nevertheless delivered 
a normalised operating profit of €96 million, 
with its flexible operating model resulting 
in reduced kilometres operated and urban 
growth in Spain and Morocco. ALSA’s third 
contract in Morocco – Tangiers – started  
in November.
• In Rail, c2c continued its excellent 
performance, remaining the best UK 
franchise for punctuality throughout 2013.  
It received 5-star quality accreditation  
and in May secured a franchise extension  
to September 2014.
Strategy
In 201 1 I set out our strategy for National 
Express. We have delivered a step change  
in our non-rail businesses, improving margins, 
generating cash and driving returns. Our portfolio 
today comprises well established businesses, 
operating in stable markets, effectively run by 
experienced management teams and which 
give access to attractive growth opportunities. 
Our three part strategy is successfully building 
shareholder value by delivering consistent 
progress in our core divisions, generating 
superior cash and returns, and creating  
profits from new, capital-light markets.
1. Delivering operational excellence
Our objective is to provide safe, punctual and 
frequent public transport services at excellent 
prices. To achieve this, our businesses each 
focus on delivering operational excellence, 
comprising:
• consistent service performance for our 
customers, leading to revenue growth;
• continuous cost efficiency improvement, 
leading to better margins and returns;  
and living our core values every day,  
leading to a sustainable business. 
Revenue growth
We have seen revenue growth in every business 
in 2013, after adjusting for the end of the NXEA 
franchise. Total revenue in the core bus and 
coach operations has grown by 7% through 
service improvement, contract wins and 
selective acquisitions. In Spain we grew total 
revenue by 1% as new contracts and growth in 
urban bus concessions offset lower passenger 
demand in the recession-hit intercity coach 
sector. Total revenue in North America grew by 
10%. We retained all the customers transferred 
through the Petermann acquisition, achieved 
97% contract retention in our existing school 
bus business and increased the price we 
achieved on contract renewal, as we focused 
on more sustainable, relationship-based 
contracts generating better capital returns, 
where service quality is valued by the customer.
In the UK, lower fares on our express coach 
network resulted in 7% revenue growth through 
increased passenger volume; this created 
a better load factor per coach, which, with 
improved yield management, significantly 
increased profit for the division. Bus grew  
like-for-like commercial revenue by 2% –  
we carried almost a million more commercial 
passenger journeys and more customers 
bought travelcards, which lower travel costs 
whilst encouraging loyalty to National Express 
services. Rail revenue at c2c rose by 4% as  
we carried more passengers. 
Delivering revenue growth through better 
customer service requires us to understand  
our customers’ needs better; build partnerships 
with our stakeholders; tackle the root causes  
of poor service delivery; and be agile on pricing.
We work hard to understand and meet  
our customers’ needs. Customer surveys, 
panels and focus groups inform our actions  
and customer satisfaction is strong across  
the Group:
• ALSA was rated the best transport 
company in Spain for customer excellence. 
It successfully retained its urban contract 
in Palencia on renewal and was awarded 
new contracts in Tangiers and Guadalajara. 
Against the backdrop of a tough economic 
environment, our customer recommendation 
rate increased by five percentage points  
to 87%.
• North America School Bus achieved 92% 
customer satisfaction, up from 85% in 2012, 
reaping the benefits of our local focus on 
service delivery and improved key account 
management. 
• Both UK Bus and UK Coach deployed 
customer technology in response to 
changing customer expectations. Over 
100,000 people have now downloaded the 
National Express West Midlands app, whilst 
coach travellers can follow their services real 
time. Coach customers can now buy tickets 
through a host of new distribution channels, 
including Ryanair and the Post Office.
• c2c has now been the best performing 
operator in the UK rail industry for a record-
breaking two years continuously, with an 
annual punctuality measure of 96.9% at  
year end. 
• We invested over £80 million in net capital 
expenditure in 2013, adding nearly 900 new 
vehicles across our operations in UK Bus, 
Spain and North America.
We have built constructive partnerships with 
our key stakeholders. UK Bus has a partnership 
with Centro to ‘Transform Bus Travel’ in 
the West Midlands. This embraces a good 
relationship with our principal local authority, 
committing both sides to investment in fleet 
and road prioritisation, fair pricing, provision of 
customer real-time information and roll out of 
smartcards. Our town centre turnaround vehicle 
cleaning programme has driven customer 
satisfaction well above the network average.
Where our performance fails to meet customer 
expectations, we have embedded structured 
solutions. UK Bus implemented automatic 
07 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 Strategic Report: 
Group Chief Executive’s Review continued
vehicle location to improve the consistency 
of services. Punctuality improved by 7% 
and our high frequency services in the Black 
Country are amongst the most punctual in 
the UK. Bus customer complaints are down 
a fifth. UK Coach created a programme to 
empower customer service staff at coach 
stations to resolve customer issues there and 
then, ensuring the customer gets safely to their 
destination in the event of service problems. 
In Morocco, we analysed the Agadir network 
which we started up in 2010 and identified 
significant improvements which have better  
met customer needs and driven a 32%  
increase in total ridership.
We deliver great value for money in our fares 
for passengers. UK Coach cut prices in 2012 
and drove a 6% increase in volume. In 2013 
we cut prices again, delivering a further 9% 
growth in passengers. In Spain, high speed 
rail, a competitor on 20% of our intercity coach 
routes, introduced substantial discounts in 
2013. We have responded by discounting 
coach fares and in 2014 we will invest further 
in yield management to improve the value we 
deliver. In UK Bus, our roll out of smartcard 
products allows customers to get even better 
value services.
Cost efficiency
We have grown core non-rail operating profit to 
£185.5 million in 2013 through revenue growth 
and cost efficiency. We have delivered £30 
million of cost efficiency and synergy, a 2% 
reduction in our cost base, which was delivered 
through a structured review of all controllable 
costs. In future we will target to reduce annual 
costs by 1% in real terms; drive down costs 
through synergy, productivity and use of 
technology; reconfigure networks to deliver 
efficiency; and secure procurement savings.  
In 2013, achievements included:
• In North America we completed the 
successful integration of Petermann, securing 
annualised saving of $10 million through 
procurement, insurance and overhead 
savings. Our GPS-based ‘Compass’ system 
has matched driving time to payroll and 
customer invoicing, delivering $3 million of 
efficiencies. We are standardising processes 
at each customer service centre (CSC) to 
improve quality and efficiency and have 
centralised ‘back office’ processes. 
• ALSA reduced network kilometres in Spain 
by 3% in 2013, showing the flexibility of the 
intercity coach model to reduce capacity 
to match lower passenger demand. In 
our Bilbao acquisition, completed in 2012, 
improvements in scheduling, employee 
management and stakeholder relations  
have delivered a significant turnaround  
in performance. 
• UK Bus delivered £9 million of efficiency 
savings to help mitigate headwinds from 
fuel prices, lower fuel duty rebates and the 
impact of pension accounting changes. This 
included reducing lost mileage by managing 
congestion using realtime location information, 
together with savings in engineering, 
procurement and overhead costs. 
• Alongside strong revenue growth, UK Coach 
delivered £7 million of cost savings, with an 
overhaul of the route network, consolidating 
routes and reducing some frequencies, whilst 
expanding new services such as at Luton 
Airport. Productivity in owned operations 
improved with the closure of the Crawley 
depot, whilst streamlining of third party 
operations produced efficiency gains for  
both ourselves and our partners.
To strengthen operational excellence, we 
are implementing structured processes in 
each business using a recognised quality 
management framework. These frameworks 
also help us replicate our success in our existing 
businesses in new market opportunities. In 
2013, c2c was awarded the maximum 5 star 
rating by the European Foundation for Quality 
Management (EFQM). This has been a key 
component of our success in delivering the UK’s 
best performing franchise, whilst also being 
recognised in our German and UK rail bids. 
Our values
We continue to support operational excellence 
through our focus on our core values – safety, 
customers, people and community. Employee 
engagement is strong across the Group, 
supported by formal training programmes  
such as ‘Master Driver’, which accredits  
drivers to key standards and provides non-
monetary rewards for exceptional performance. 
North America reported a record level of 89% 
employee satisfaction, up for the third year in 
a row. I would personally like to acknowledge 
the efforts and commitment of our employees 
in helping to achieve our customer service and 
safety improvements. I am also delighted with 
the progress of our Community programmes, 
including 2,400 young people helped by our 
UK initiative to support the further education 
of disadvantaged students and a US$4 million 
commitment to community support in North 
America. We are proud to be the first company 
to sign the UK Government’s Corporate 
Covenant that supports Armed Forces 
personnel, including helping their return  
to private sector employment.
Safety remains the first priority in all our 
operations. Three years ago we introduced  
our ‘Driving Out Harm’ programme and we 
have made good progress in improving the 
Group’s safety culture and incident rate. Over 
two years we have halved safety incidents  
External view – Customers 
“In mountain regions like La Alpujarra,  
with small and scattered communities  
and very difficult communications, the 
service provided by ALSA coaches is vital. 
Our transport routes provide daily access 
for inhabitants to health and educational 
services with complete ease. And they  
are particularly convenient for the elderly  
and young people living in our region.”
María Teresa Blanco
Mayor of Órgiva, Granada
08 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 External view – People 
“VaLUENTiS works with National Express 
to conduct its annual employee surveys in 
the UK. National Express has been diligent 
in the timing and consistency of approach, 
with significant attention paid to results 
and follow-up. In 2013, National Express 
recorded one of the highest engagement 
scores registered, with ‘best in class’ scores 
in two business units.”
Graeme Cohen, 
Graeme Cohen, Director, VaLUENTiS Ltd 
for which we are responsible. As we strive to 
improve our performance further, 2013 success 
has included: 
• recognition by the American National 
Standards Institute for safety in our School 
Bus business, the first industry operator  
to achieve this;
• record-breaking low levels of employee lost 
time injuries (LTIs) for the Group, including  
a 38% reduction in UK Bus;
• a 34% reduction in Signals Passed at Danger 
(SPAD) at c2c;
• a major reduction in passenger incident 
claims, down 40% year-on-year in Coach 
and 9% in Spain; and
• over £1 million in insurance premium savings 
during the year. 
2. Superior cash and returns
National Express is focused on cash 
generation. Our free cash flow pays dividends to 
shareholders, funds future growth and reduces 
debt. A strong cash flow and improving return 
on the capital we invest in the business will drive 
better returns for our shareholders. Maintaining 
a strong and flexible balance sheet gives us 
choices for the future. 
At the start of 2013 we set out our goals to  
drive superior cash and returns:
• to generate £125-150 million of free cash  
flow in 2013;
• to maintain our gearing ratio at between  
2 and 2.5 times net debt to EBITDA over  
the medium term, but to reduce our gearing 
to around 2 times at the end of 2014;
• to improve our core non-rail ROCE from 
10.6% that we achieved in 2012; and
• to achieve a 20% pre-tax return on assets 
(‘ROA’) in North America.
We have been successful in 2013 in delivering 
against these goals. Our free cash flow 
was over £180 million. The Group has now 
generated almost £600 million of free cash flow 
in the last four years. Working capital reduced 
by £31 million in 2013, as we further reduced 
contract receivables in Spain and North 
America. Group operating cash conversion  
was 129% of operating profit with the stand  
out performer North America, generating 
almost $200 million of operating cash flow, 
equivalent to repaying the cash cost of the 
Petermann acquisition in just a year. 
We reduced net debt in 2013 by £82 million 
to £7 46 million, a gearing ratio of 2.5 times 
EBITDA, with lower debt offsetting the loss of 
NXEA earnings in 2012. We continue to target 
a gearing ratio of around two times at the end 
of 2014.
We increased the Group’s core non-rail ROCE 
to 1 1. 1% in 2013. We invested over £80 million 
in net capital expenditure, mostly in new fleet. 
We are targeting where we invest carefully – 
we are renewing the UK Bus fleet, investing 
over one and a half times depreciation in 
2013 to introduce over 130 buses, leading to 
more passengers travelling with us. Our North 
American School Bus business is implementing 
a programme to use capital more efficiently, 
targeting lower capital ‘conversion’ contracts, 
not renewing existing contracts which don’t 
cover their cost of capital and reducing the 
number of spare vehicles required through 
more effective preventative maintenance,  
which saw the spare ratio fall to 1 1% (2012: 
12%). As a result of this, this division now  
has a 22% ROA (2012: 17%). 
In Spain we invested £44 million in net capital 
expenditure, broadly in line with depreciation. 
We are benefiting from negotiating extensions 
to fleet lives in urban bus contracts to help our 
austerity-impacted city council customers. 
Growth in our capital-light businesses – UK 
Coach, Germany, UK Rail and US Transit – are 
an integral part of driving higher Group returns.
3. Creating new business 
opportunities
Our unique portfolio of international bus, coach 
and rail businesses gives National Express  
a significant opportunity to grow in selected 
new markets. In particular we have identified 
markets that are capital-light in nature, allowing 
us to drive future profitable growth, offering  
the prospect of exciting additional returns  
to shareholders.
In addition to organic growth in our existing UK, 
Spain and North America businesses, in 2013 
we secured £1.8 billion of revenue from future 
market opportunities. We are currently working 
on a pipeline of opportunities worth over £10 
billion revenue, including UK Rail, German Rail 
and US Transit, as well as exploring interesting 
international markets and developing regular 
coach services in Germany.
09 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51 During 2013 we developed the following  
new opportunities:
• Germany: we are now well established 
in the German rail bidding market, with an 
experienced local team in place. We are 
targeting capital-light regional ‘revenue 
risk’ and ‘gross cost’ contracts with pro-
competition regional authorities. In 2013 we 
won two 15-year contracts to run the Rhine 
Munsterland Express, expected to generate 
€70 million of annual revenue from the end 
of 2015. Mobilisation is now well underway. 
Using this successful credential and building 
on our record of delivering high quality 
service in c2c, we have prequalified for the 
prestigious Berlin Ringbahn tender later in 
2014, as part of a bid pipeline of 18 contracts 
with annual revenue of €1 billion. Our rail 
operations are being supplemented by  
our launch of ‘city2city’, a coach operation  
in Germany. We are using the UK Coach  
model of working with local coach partners  
to serve Munich, Stuttgart, Cologne, Frankfurt 
and Hamburg. Our start-up in 2013 saw  
a normalised operating loss of £2.4 million  
as we invest in marketing and promotion  
to develop this newly liberalised market. 
• US Transit: Within 18 months, we have 
built US$80 million of annual revenue 
and are currently working on a revenue 
pipeline of over US$200 million. Focused 
on the Paratransit, Shuttle and Fixed Route 
segments, we have won five contracts 
targeted in smaller, lower risk markets.  
The industry is typically capital-light,  
with publicly funded fleet investment.
• UK Rail: having secured the extension of 
c2c to September 2014, we are bidding 
selectively within a programme of significant 
rail refranchising in the UK. As the UK’s 
best performing franchise operator, we 
are pleased that quality is a factor in bid 
evaluation. Having prequalified for three 
tenders during the year, we have now 
submitted the Essex Thameside and 
Crossrail bids and expect to submit our 
ScotRail bid in April 2014. 
• International opportunities: we expect 
public transport to grow significantly in the 
medium term, through liberalisation and the 
development of infrastructure in emerging 
economies. Building on ALSA’s success 
developing the Moroccan market, we have 
invested in a bid team to explore selected 
opportunities which leverage National 
Express’ strengths in international bus, coach 
and rail markets, where the risk is appropriate 
and capital requirements generally light. 
Outlook
We intend to grow profit across all of our non-
rail businesses and develop our rail business 
by winning new franchises. We will continue 
to make progress against our three strategic 
goals. Focused on delivering operational 
excellence, our coach services in UK and Spain 
will benefit from continued development of yield 
management and greater retail distribution.  
Bus will benefit from our focus on service 
quality, network improvements and greater 
use of technology in the UK and further new 
contract opportunities in Spain and Morocco. 
North America School Bus will continue 
to improve its contract portfolio, driving 
capital returns and selectively adding bolt-on 
acquisitions and conversion opportunities. 
All businesses will deliver a minimum 1% real 
reduction in costs, supported by unchanged 
hedged fuel prices, driving margin progress 
across the Group.
With our focus on superior cash generation, 
we have a robust financial platform which 
has underpinned an increased dividend to 
shareholders. In 2014 we are targeting further 
free cash flow of £150 million. Our strong cash 
generation and targeted capital deployment 
will further reduce net debt, improve returns 
to shareholders and fund our new business 
development programme. In the last three 
months alone, we have submitted two rail 
tenders, successfully bid for two bolt-on 
acquisitions, begun bus operations in Tangiers 
and submitted contract tenders in Spain 
and North America Transit. We expect good 
progress from our £10 billion pipeline of capital-
light bid opportunities, securing new contracts, 
concessions and business opportunities  
to enhance shareholder value.
Dean Finch
Group Chief Executive 
27 February 2014 
External view – Community 
“I am grateful to National Express for 
being the first company to sign up to the 
Corporate Covenant. It is a great British 
company recognising the significant 
contribution and sacrifice of our Armed 
Forces and their families.”
Mark Francois MP 
Minister of State for the Armed Forces 
Strategic Report: 
Group Chief Executive’s Review continued
10 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
