 Business review
Group Chief Executive
Overview of 2011
In 201 1 we completed our Business 
Recovery programme. We delivered:
•	 record statutory Group profit before  
tax and amortisation of £180.2 million 
(2010: £97.3m);
•	 three-fold increase in statutory profit 
before tax, up £89.2 million year-on-year 
to £129.4 million;
•	 revenue and profit growth in  
every division;
•	 record profits in our UK Coach business;
•	 industry leading operating margins in 
Spain, North America, UK Coach and 
Rail – North America achieved 10% 
margin; Group margin has almost 
doubled since 2009; and
•	 end of year contract order book revenue 
of £3.7 billion in existing concessions 
and tendered contracts.
Strong increase in profit
Group revenue increased by over 5% 
to £2.2 billion, despite the backdrop of 
difficult economic conditions and austerity 
measures. Normalised operating profit 
increased by 10.3% to £225.2 million 
(2010: £204.2m) and we achieved a record 
statutory Group profit before tax and 
amortisation, delivering no exceptional 
charges in 201 1. Statutory profit before tax 
rose more than three-fold to £129.4 million 
(2010: £40.2m). 
Secure financial platform
Our basic earnings per share (EPS) 
increased 14.4% to 27 .0 pence (2010: 
23.6p) and we have increased our full year 
proposed dividend to 9.5 pence (2010: 
6.0p); this is an 8.3% increase in the final 
dividend. We generated over £80 million 
in free cash flow in 201 1, supporting 
the reintroduction of the dividend and 
investment in organic growth to drive 
future profitability. We maintained a strong 
financial platform, with over £500 million of 
undrawn committed facilities and cash at 
the end of 201 1, a secure funding structure 
of primarily non-bank debt maturing 
between 2014 and 2020, and a debt 
gearing ratio below two times EBITDA.
Successfully managing austerity 
During 201 1 we dealt effectively with 
the challenges of economic austerity. In 
Spain we saw little impact on our public 
concessions. We saw some extension 
of receivable balances during the year 
and have managed them closely. In 
North America we met the challenge 
of reduced state funding by delivering 
more outsourced conversion contracts 
to school board customers. We are less 
exposed to UK Government funding than 
many of our peers. Our UK and Spanish 
coach businesses benefited by delivering 
excellent value for money services to  
cash-strapped customers. Economic 
austerity continues to drive as many 
opportunities for public passenger 
transport as it does challenges.
Core strengths in place to drive 
shareholder value
National Express is now well positioned 
to capitalise on new value enhancing 
opportunities. The executive management 
team is well established and the Group 
has been restored to its position as a 
leading international operator of public 
transportation. 
We are now focused on the following core 
initiatives to drive our progress:
•	 delivering operational excellence, 
with consistent service performance and 
ongoing cost efficiency improvements;
•	 securing organic growth from our 
existing portfolio of businesses; and 
•	 developing new contract 
opportunities in targeted businesses 
and geographies.
I believe our portfolio of 
businesses and track 
record of success mean 
we are also well placed 
to target emerging 
growth opportunities.
Dean Finch
In just two years National Express has moved from 
reporting losses to the record profits we have announced 
for 201 1. We carried more passengers than in 2010 and are 
now the best performing operator in many of our markets. 
Building on our operational success over 
the last two years, with four of our divisions 
delivering industry leading margins, there 
are still many opportunities to further 
reduce costs and improve efficiencies. 
Our existing diversified portfolio of bus and 
coach businesses has excellent growth 
potential and we are well on the way to 
replacing earnings from the East Anglia 
rail franchise. Organically we will grow 
through new products, better marketing 
and improved service delivery. At the same 
time we are investing in new business 
opportunities – such as the acquisition 
of the Petermann school bus business in 
North America. The Group is also investing 
in commercial development teams to 
target exciting US and European markets.
Delivering our strategy in 2011
Last February I set out the first phase 
of our strategy, which was to complete 
the rebuilding of National Express and to 
establish a foundation for profitable and 
sustainable long-term growth. In 201 1,  
I believe we have achieved this – not only 
have all five Group businesses reported 
3
Business review  
Group Chief Executive Business review
Group Chief Executive continued
increased profits, with four at industry 
leading margins, but all have achieved 
profitable revenue growth. 
Achieving margin improvement
Over the last two years we have delivered 
significant improvement in every business. 
UK Bus and North America have both 
nearly doubled profit since 2009 and have 
increased operating margins over the  
two years – UK Bus achieved a margin  
of 12.4% in 201 1 and North America 
10.0%. In 201 1 UK Coach delivered  
a record profit and a 13.5% margin. UK  
Rail margin rose from 5.3% to 6.3% –  
a very strong performance in this high 
revenue, low capital business. Spain’s 
margin has remained stable, at an industry 
leading 16.4%.
This has been achieved through a clear 
focus on operational performance 
and delivering an efficient cost base. 
With new management teams in North 
America, UK Bus and UK Coach, as well 
as new leadership in UK Rail, we have 
delivered cost efficiency savings, removed 
unprofitable mileage, secured global 
procurement savings and ensured that 
capacity has adapted to meet demand. 
In North America alone, as promised, 
we have delivered US$40 million of cost 
savings over two years.
Delivering organic growth
We have complemented margin 
improvement by increasing organic  
growth. Every division has grown revenue 
in 201 1, either in line with or outperforming 
industry peers. With overall Group 
revenue up 5% year-on-year, UK Bus saw 
passenger revenue up 3%, UK Coach 
grew passenger revenue on the core 
National Express network by 5%, Spain 
grew passenger revenue by 6% and  
North America revenue was 8% higher. 
Fares have been rebalanced – in UK 
Bus, the average passenger yield has 
been improved, yet our West Midlands 
fares remain amongst the lowest for 
comparable conurbations, offering 
excellent value-for-money. UK Coach 
eliminated heavily discounted promotional 
fares in favour of everyday value pricing. 
In its regulated business, ALSA adapted 
fares and services to market conditions. 
Overall, we continue to deliver great value 
to our customers and are focused on 
driving greater volume growth with some 
customers switching from other high cost 
modes of transport, such as rail.
We have seen passenger volume growth in 
response to service improvements in both 
the UK Bus and Coach operations. More 
effective marketing strategies have targeted 
student travel in bus, coach and rail, 
together with commuter travel in coach. 
We are investing heavily in new fleet, having 
spent £132 million across the Group in 
201 1. In UK Bus we will have introduced 
over 250 new buses onto the network 
over a 12-month period, along with 160 
new vehicles introduced to our third-party 
operated UK Coach fleet in 201 1, and 300 
new vehicles in Spain. In North America  
we added over 600 new school buses 
in 201 1 and cascaded over 900 existing 
buses across the fleet, driving better  
capital efficiency. 
Securing targeted expansion
During 201 1 we have begun to secure 
targeted expansion, adding revenue  
across the Group through contract wins 
and bolt-on acquisitions. This leverages  
the Group’s strong market positions  
and proven expertise in winning new 
contracts, to deliver sustainable revenue 
and profit growth. 
The Group has an existing ‘order book’ 
of £3.7 billion in its contract businesses, 
across North American school bus, Spain, 
and UK Rail. This represents over three 
years of contracted and concession-based 
revenues for the Group: six years in Spain, 
two years in North America and one year in 
rail franchising. Delivering a 98% retention 
rate in existing school bus contracts, 
North America also secured 1,000 
new routes in 201 1. The conversion of 
contracts to outsourcing is an increasingly 
important part of North America’s growth, 
reflecting lower capital requirements and 
opportunities to tailor a specific service 
package to the new customer. In 201 1 
we secured ten conversion contracts 
and integrated the Vogel business in 
New Jersey, a bolt-on acquisition that 
consolidated our position and efficiencies 
in the local market.
In Spain, ALSA won the tender to operate 
the Madrid City Tour service and added  
a further concession in Agadir. Two  
small acquisitions were made, creating  
a foothold in a new territory, Navarre, and 
adding a further concession in the south  
of Spain. Contracts and opportunities  
such as these provide profitable revenue 
growth to complement and enhance the 
core transport operations at ALSA.
For more information on  
our vision and values go to  
nationalexpressgroup.com/ourway
Carlos Chiesa,  
painter and coachbuilder  
ALSA
Carlos Chiesa works as a painter 
and coachbuilder in ALSA’s 
central depot in Madrid. Both 
jobs can pose health hazards. 
Ever since he joined ALSA in 1991, 
Carlos has been aware of the 
importance of safety in his daily 
routine, and has always made 
sure that he uses the proper 
safety equipment. As a result  
he has never had an accident.
4 Growth through larger scale acquisition is 
also considered against specific criteria –  
in the same or similar modes of transport, 
in overlapping geographies, where scale 
gives immediate synergies and only 
where clear financial criteria will be met. 
In September 201 1 we announced the 
acquisition of Petermann, a school bus 
business in the United States that met 
these criteria. With a strong reputation 
for customer service, a very experienced 
management team, annual revenue 
of around US$150 million and annual 
operating profit of US$13.5 million, 
Petermann is a high quality business. 
Strong synergies will complement the 
geographic coverage it adds to our 
Durham bus operation, whilst adding 
a contract in our targeted para-transit 
market. The acquisition is expected to 
complete during the first half of the year.
Looking forward –  
key investment areas
Our vision, set out at the start of 201 1, is  
to earn the lifetime loyalty of our customers 
by consistently delivering frequent, high 
performing public transport services 
which offer excellent value. During the last 
12 months, we have strengthened our core 
values to deliver this vision. In addition  
to improving the social, environmental  
and economic conditions of the 
communities in which we operate, these 
values will deliver three differentiating 
areas for National Express – safety 
leadership, customer service and people 
development, particularly in commercial 
development expertise.
Safety
More than anything else, we value the 
safety of our customers and employees. 
Last year we launched our Driving Out 
Harm programme across the Group, a 
comprehensive five year plan to upgrade 
our entire safety management approach. 
We have adopted 12 global safety 
standards, including setting enhanced 
requirements for vehicle safety; all senior 
managers have completed formal safety 
training, and comprehensive driver 
safety management has retrained poorly 
performing drivers and implemented 
defensive driving techniques. With 
significant improvement in our Marrakesh 
operation, and UK Bus and Coach leading 
the industry in low accident rates, we are 
targeting a 70% reduction in lost time 
injuries and a 50% reduction in vehicle 
accidents over five years.
Customers
We place customers at the heart of 
our business and our goal is to be the 
customer service leader in the mass 
transport sector. With a new Group 
Customer Service Director in place, we  
are investing in our front line station staff, 
our contact centres and our drivers. In 
2012 we have launched ‘Master Drivers’ ,  
a programme embedding advanced 
driving skills. These factors will help 
differentiate National Express in delivering 
our customer experience. 
People
Our employees are core to enabling 
National Express to consistently deliver 
high performing services of which we 
can be proud. With a highly experienced 
Executive team established in 2010, this 
year saw the introduction of global HR 
standards, talent development and a new 
performance management scheme with 
clearer accountabilities, responsibilities and 
pay for performance. We are significantly 
strengthening employee engagement, 
education and capability development, 
and innovation. We are investing to drive 
our commercial business development 
capability – in rail, where we have 
assembled a small team of experienced 
industry experts to secure new profitable 
franchises; in North America, where we 
will drive new transit opportunities; and in 
Continental Europe, in selected bus and 
coach markets.
Developing mass transport markets
We believe public transport has a positive 
future. Social, environmental and economic 
trends will mean its core strengths 
will increasingly become competitive 
advantages. We believe public transport  
is distinguished by four crucial Cs:
•	 cost: at a time when household  
budgets are increasingly pressured,  
the value offered by public transport  
is increasingly attractive;
•	 convenience: in addition to its 
traditional strengths, the ability to 
work on the move – increasingly using 
smartphone and similar technology 
– builds on the convenience public 
transport offers;
•	 congestion: congestion will continue 
to pose a challenge to policymakers 
and the public for years to come, 
strengthening the case for investment  
in public transport; and
Our vision 
To earn the lifetime 
loyalty of our customers  
by consistently 
delivering frequent, 
high performing public 
transport services which 
offer excellent value 
Our values 
Safety
More than anything else, 
we value the safety of our 
customers, employees and the 
public generally.
Customers 
We will place customers at 
the heart of our business. 
Nobody will try harder for our 
customers than we do. 
People 
Enabling all our people to  
reach their full potential and to 
give their best as individuals 
and in teams.
Community 
We will advance the social, 
environmental and economic 
conditions in the communities 
where we operate.
5
Business review  
Group Chief Executive Business review
Group Chief Executive continued
•	 carbon: public transport already has a 
significant carbon advantage over private 
and air transport, with the adoption of 
new technologies further reducing its 
carbon footprint.
Strength of the National  
Express portfolio 
National Express is now well positioned for 
the future, as a distinctive mass transport 
contractor. Its combination of geographic 
presence and passenger transportation 
expertise will deliver long-term, sustainable 
growth in markets with good potential.  
Our portfolio of perpetuity owned 
businesses – UK Bus and Coach –  
and strong contract operations – North 
America, Spain and UK Rail – provides 
an excellent platform for future value 
generation. This platform reflects:
•	 the strength of our core existing bus 
and coach businesses – a unique, 
geographically diversified group with  
a balanced requirement for capital;
•	 demonstrable resilience in business 
performance despite the economic 
challenges – significantly less  
uncertainty in Spain proven by results 
in both businesses, growth in North 
America and plans in place to mitigate 
UK austerity;
•	 flexibility to adjust to stretched public  
and consumer budgets, whilst providing 
a core public service;
•	 rail opportunities, with limited downside 
in existing profits and cash flows 
compared with peers;
•	 a stable financial structure – substantial, 
long-term, committed debt funding, 
primarily sourced from non-bank markets;
•	 substantial ‘self-help’ opportunities 
to drive further margin improvement, 
including in UK Bus and North America;
•	 market leading positions offering good 
organic growth potential; and
•	 significant market opportunities 
– mandated Continental Europe 
deregulation; US development into 
transit and para-transit, leveraging 
existing strong capabilities and 
management experience.
Next steps in delivering the strategy
The next phase of the Group’s strategy will 
see implementation of the following steps:
•	 delivering operational excellence in our 
existing businesses, to drive continued 
margin progress;
•	 securing organic growth opportunities 
in existing businesses; and
•	 developing new contract opportunities  
in targeted markets.
Delivering operational excellence  
in our existing businesses
We will continue to focus on opportunities 
to enhance margins and profitability in 
the four core bus and coach divisions. 
Leveraging our international portfolio 
and scale, procurement savings, worth 
over £12 million year-on-year in 201 1, 
will continue to bring benefits. In UK 
Bus we are targeting to further increase 
margin, through improved costs, depot 
improvements and growth. In North 
American school bus, already the industry 
leader in margin, further improvements 
will be delivered through improved 
maintenance schemes and the use of 
technology; GPS is already delivering 
better control of wage and fuel costs. 
Spain and UK Coach are focused on 
minimising the impact on 2012 margins of 
concession renewal and subsidy reduction 
respectively. Each business will continue to 
deliver cost savings and productivity gains, 
while keeping networks optimised. 
Securing organic growth opportunities 
Organic growth is a key target for each 
business. Austerity will continue to drive 
value services such as bus and coach.  
In North America, the school bus business 
presents significant opportunities to 
maintain our recent rate of winning market 
share, converting outsource tenders and 
selective market consolidation. The school 
bus market of 530,000 vehicles remains 
little over one third outsourced and there 
are 4,000 participants in the market,  
few of whom have the resources to 
compete nationally.
ALSA will continue to explore domestic 
market opportunities in concession and 
contract bids, together with selected 
consolidation opportunities. Morocco 
remains an exciting market as other major 
cities look to modernise their urban bus 
operations, following ALSA’s success in 
Marrakesh and Agadir. UK Coach will 
continue to exploit the growth potential 
For more information on our portfolio go to  
nationalexpressgroup.com/aboutus
Renate Carrington, driver 
Durham School Services
When Renate Carrington started 
driving a school bus, Jimmy 
Carter was challenging Gerald 
Ford for the US presidency and 
Apple was a start-up. That was 
1976. At the time she was driving 
for the school board, in Lewisville 
near Dallas, Texas. When Durham 
won the contract in 1988, she 
came to us – and she’s stayed 
ever since. That’s 35 years of 
serving her community.
6 from modal shift away from higher rail  
ticket pricing.
We are also investing in technology that will 
make it easier for our customers to access 
our services and so increase travel. The 
UK Coach business now has real-time 
fleet location data which is being used to 
improve customer information and vehicle 
routing. UK Bus is trialling smart card 
technology across its fleet to improve  
ease of customer use. 
Developing new contract opportunities 
in targeted markets
The Group is building strong commercial 
development teams to develop a small 
number of target markets. The Group has 
identified selected markets in Europe and 
North America representing £60 billion of 
annual addressable revenue. The majority 
of those opportunities are in the contract 
transport market, where the Group can 
utilise and further develop its contract 
bidding and concession management 
capabilities. We will focus on new markets 
in North America and deregulating markets 
in Continental Europe:
•	 in North America we now have 
access to profitable additional markets, 
including transit and para-transit. This is 
a US$5 billion market, with low capital 
requirements complementary to the 
contract expertise we have in school 
bus. The senior citizen population in the 
US is expected to double by 2040, with 
disabled ridership also increasing. With 
the Petermann acquisition, our plans 
are well developed to target a greater 
presence in this market;
•	 in Continental Europe we are well 
placed to meet the needs of a market 
deregulating under EU rules. As Europe’s 
leading scheduled coach operator, 
we will seek to leverage our proven 
skills and capability, along with the 
National Express, ALSA and Eurolines 
brands. We will also explore bus and 
rail opportunities that meet our rigorous 
investment criteria; and
•	 in Rail we retain our expertise and 
knowledge alongside our industry-
leading c2c franchise, winner of 
‘Suburban and Metro Operator’ for the 
last two years. Franchises have attractive 
characteristics, providing a stable cash 
flow and strong capital return, as long 
as the risk is acceptable. We have 
assembled a team of experienced rail 
professionals to lead our work. We have 
already secured four star accreditation 
under the European Foundation 
for Quality Management (EFQM) 
assessment for c2c. We are seeking to 
pre-qualify in the current round of UK rail 
franchise tenders, with around £6 billion 
of revenue to be tendered over the next 
four years.
Outlook for 2012
We operate in markets that combine 
to offer long-term growth, strong cash 
generation and scope to generate good 
returns for shareholders through dividends, 
capital return and reinvestment for growth. 
Our core business of international bus  
and coach services is robust, sustainable 
and defensible. 
A discounted travel scheme alongside the 
introduction of new services in UK Coach, 
investment to stimulate passenger growth 
in UK Bus, and the integration of targeted 
acquisition opportunities are all expected 
to drive profitability. This will help to mitigate 
the reduction in concession income in 
UK Coach and a lower rail profit, following 
the handover of the East Anglia franchise. 
ALSA has an excellent track record of 
contract retention and is well positioned 
to renew upcoming intercity concessions 
over the next 18 months, and to develop 
new opportunities in both Spain and 
Morocco. In North America we expect 
economic constraints to continue to lead 
school boards towards outsourcing, whilst 
the integration of the Petermann acquisition  
will drive profit growth and synergies. 
Finally, future participation in UK Rail  
may offer additional upside opportunity  
for the Group.
Following a strong end to 201 1, we expect 
passenger revenue to continue to grow 
in each of our bus and coach divisions. 
In 2012, as austerity measures, fuel and 
fare increases make passenger travel by 
other modes relatively more expensive, 
National Express provides attractive, value 
for money alternatives. We believe that 
our portfolio of businesses will provide 
sustainable earnings growth, continued 
cash generation and exciting opportunities 
for growth in selected markets in the 
medium term.
Dean Finch
Group Chief Executive 
29 February 2012
Sue Gibbs, station announcer  
c2c
Fenchurch Street station links 
south Essex to the City of London. 
Around 30,000 customers use it 
every day. “But over the years you 
get to know them and they know 
you,” says station announcer Sue 
Gibbs. Sue, who was recently 
awarded an MBE for her work, is 
known as the ‘voice of Fenchurch 
Street’ and is proud of the fact 
that “we have no recorded 
announcements here.” 
7
Business review  
Group Chief Executive
