 02 Chairman’s Statement Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
Chairman’s Statement
I would like to thank the Executive team for its strong leadership 
and all our employees for their individual contributions to our 
continued success during the past year.
Board
As a Board, we are conscious that we
oversee the activities of the business in the
interests of all our stakeholders. In order to
achieve this, we must ensure that we have
the very best people for the task. To ensure
this, we carry out a rigorous review of
Board performance annually and regularly
examine senior management succession
very carefully.
Roger Urwin, Group Chief Executive,
intends to retire from National Grid at the
end of this calendar year. Roger has led
National Grid through transformational
change and delivered an outstanding track
record of success and value creation. It has
been my privilege to have worked closely
with Roger since the merger of National
Grid Group and Lattice Group in 2002. At
the Board’s request, Roger agreed to defer
his retirement to enable a smooth transition 
to his successor, ensuring that operating
performance momentum is maintained,
together with management continuity through
this year’s Transmission Price Review.
To find a suitable replacement for Roger,
the Non-executive Directors undertook 
an extensive process of evaluating both
internal and external candidates. We are
delighted to report that Steve Holliday will
succeed Roger and was appointed Deputy
Group Chief Executive from the beginning
of National Grid’s 2006/07 financial year.
Since joining National Grid in 2001, Steve
has led the UK transmission and the UK
gas distribution businesses to world-
leading performance. All the Directors 
and I are confident of the future of the
Group under Steve’s leadership and wish
him every success.
This year will also see John Grant stepping
down from his Non-executive Directorship.
John joined National Grid in November 1995.
He has made an outstanding contribution to
the Board and our Committees over the past
10
1
⁄2 years. He has also been a major
contributor to all our key debates and we
shall miss his wisdom and insight.
Governance
The Board of National Grid continues to 
be committed to the highest standards 
of corporate governance. It also seeks to
ensure that our values and internal processes
lead to the effective management of risk
and the equitable treatment of all our
stakeholders and employees. We recognise
the significant benefit of management
leadership within a robust governance
framework that embodies strong financial
control and sound administration.
In a climate where the governance
arrangements in large companies are
increasingly under scrutiny, the Board has
implemented a transparent approach. This
is driven by our Framework for Responsible
Business, underpinned by a suite of policies,
procedures, public position statements and
well-defined internal control processes.
Employee engagement 
In May 2006, we undertook our second
Group-wide employee opinion survey. The
first survey was undertaken in July 2004.
One initiative that resulted from the previous
survey was the promotion of ‘Managers as
Communicators’ to enhance dialogue and
feedback among the workforce. 
Following the 2004 employee opinion survey,
the Executive identified a number of areas
for improvement. These included improving
opportunities for dialogue across the
Group, ensuring understanding of strategy
amongst employees, managing change
better, managing individual performance
effectively, demonstrating our values in all
26.1p
Ordinary dividends
46.7p
Adjusted earnings 
per share*
* Excludes the impact of exceptional
items and remeasurements Chairman’s Statement 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2005/06
National Grid
that we do and continuing to progress our
inclusion and diversity policy. 
The re-branding programme provided 
a platform this year to demonstrate 
our improvement in a number of these
areas and to introduce new approaches.
Across the Group we have also refined 
our employee briefing processes and our
national employee publications. For the first
time this year, we have introduced a Group-
wide publication, ‘National Grid World’, to
provide employees with a broader view of
Group activities.
Community investment 
National Grid continues to support its
customers and communities through its
community investment activities. The areas
that we support are closely aligned to our
business priorities: Education & Skills,
Environment & Energy and Community
Development. 
Both our US and UK operations have
programmes to support domestic consumers
who have difficulty with energy payments.
In the US, approximately 215,000 National
Grid customers are supported through our
Low Income Discount Rates, which reduce
fuel bills by up to 25%. National Grid also
administers grants in the US to allow
customers to install energy efficiency
measures. Through the Gas Efficiency
Programme, which was initiated at the end
of 2005, low-income customers are able 
to receive support from a fund of $5 million.
In addition, National Grid in the US
sponsors assistance programmes run by
charitable organisations to support those
who are not able to pay their energy bills. 
In the UK, National Grid has supported 
the fuel poor through its ‘Affordable Warmth
Programme’. Since it was established in
1999, the programme has assisted
377,841 homes. One of its key elements 
is the support for the Warm Zones concept.
National Grid currently supports four Warm
Zones working with Government and social
housing providers and integrating sources
of funding to tackle the issue of fuel poverty
in a concentrated and systematic manner. 
We have also continued to lead on the
‘Young Offender Into Work Programme’.
With the involvement now of over 50 FTSE
companies, we have seen 400 young
people secure a new future with a significant
reduction in the re-offending rate.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend
of 26.1p per ordinary share – an increase of
10%. This increase reflects our confidence
in the Group’s longer-term prospects based
on this year’s good results and our strategic
commitment to invest in the growth of our
businesses.
Going forward, we continue to target annual
increases of 7% to March 2008.
Outlook
Given the opportunities across the Group
for capital investment and revenue growth
with the continuing drive for cost
efficiencies, the Board continues to have 
full confidence in the Group’s ability to
generate future earnings growth. The 
Group will also continue to maintain its
disciplined approach to both organic
growth and strategic investment.
Sir John Parker
Chairman
377,841
The number of homes
that National Grid 
has assisted through
its ‘Affordable Warmth
Programme’
400
The number of young
people securing new
futures from National
Grid’s ‘Into Work
Programme’
The new name for our
principal businesses
