 Delivering shareholder value
I am pleased to report that National Express has delivered a good revenue and proﬁt performance 
as part of another strong set of results for 2012. 
Overview
Chairman’s letter
Dear shareholder,
I am delighted to have joined the Group in January this year, 
taking over as Chairman from John Devaney who has led 
the company with clarity of purpose through a challenging 
but successful period. I look forward to building on the solid 
foundations that he has put in place. 
National Express continues to be one of the strongest 
performing providers of public transportation. The strength 
and resilience of the Group lies in our unique, diversiﬁed 
portfolio of high quality businesses, operating in Bus,  
Coach and Rail, providing excellent geographic access 
to those markets. Transport trends over the last 20 years 
have been positive and National Express beneﬁts from 
a combination of highly visible revenues from long term 
contracts and deregulated operations addressing  
a socially important need. 
Our UK Bus, UK Coach and Rail operations, and the 
divisions in Spain and North America, are well managed and 
ﬂexible businesses with a track record of successive margin 
improvement, delivered by completing a highly successful 
turnaround programme begun in 2010. Our strength in 
delivering operational excellence has seen National Express 
invest in new vehicles, technology and people, which have 
helped to drive underlying revenue and improve margins. 
Across the Group, we continue to focus on achieving 
greater cost efﬁciencies, reducing variable costs by ﬂexing 
operational mileage, and offering highly competitive  
prices with a quality service others ﬁnd difﬁcult to match, 
driving organic growth. 
In 2012 we acquired the Petermann school bus business  
in North America, a strategically signiﬁcant acquisition  
which has been successfully integrated into the Group. 
Along with two other smaller acquisitions, this has also 
provided a platform for us to establish and advance our 
North American Transit business.
Sir John Armitt
8 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012  Investment case 
2. Well balanced portfolio with 
diversiﬁed exposure to modes 
of transport and geographies
1. A best in class public 
transport operator
 Spain £535m
 North America £578m
 UK Bus £269m
 UK Coach £255m
 UK Rail £195m
Margin 
%
Best in  
class %
Spain 15.7 NX
N America 10.2 NX
UK Bus 12.7 1 7
UK Coach 8. 1 NX
Rail 13.7 NX
Group 11 .6 NX
3. Credible strategy
Delivering operational 
excellence
 Margin at 1 1.6% – best in class 
in 4 out of 5 divisions
 Record non-Rail proﬁt at 
£185 million – third successive 
year of growth
Driving organic growth
 Revenue up 7%
 New contracts secured –  
nearly £2 billion in revenue
Generating superior  
cash and returns
 Free cash ﬂow of £141 million  
– investing for growth 
 Non-Rail pre-tax ROCE  
stable at 10.6%
Delivering new  
opportunities
 Delivery of $10 million 
annualised synergies from 
Petermann school bus 
acquisition
 $65 million revenue US Transit 
business established
14
Read more
 
4. Stable ﬁnancial footing, with a commitment to investment  
grade credit rating and medium term ﬁnancing
Gearing ratios 2012 201 1 Covenant
Net debt/ EBITDA 2.5x 1.9x <3.5x
Interest cover 6.7x 7 .2x >3.5x
Ratings Grade Outlook
Moodys Baa3 Postive
Fitch BBB- Stable
Strong debt maturity profile
5. Dividend policy offering growth on a sustainable non-rail  
earnings basis
2012 p 201 1 p
Basic EPS Non-rail 21.6 20.7
Rail 3.9 6.3
Group 25.5 27.0
Dividend 9.75 9.5
National Express continues to be an impressive  
cash generator. Our balance sheet is underpinned  
by an appropriate dividend and funding structure.  
The Group has strong liquidity and investment grade debt 
with a long maturity proﬁle. The Board is committed to a 
gearing policy which provides security but at the same time 
allows us to invest for the future. Public transport markets  
are growing and liberalising around the world. This offers 
a range of market opportunities for National Express in 
passenger transport contracts and concessions in selected 
target markets.
Dividend
The quality of our business and our chosen strategy enable 
us to generate an improving return on capital. The Board 
has an attractive and sustainable dividend policy which is 
appropriate for the current business environment, where, 
alongside our opportunities, challenges will continue 
in a world of austerity. Our aim is to pay a dividend that 
is covered approximately twice by our Bus and Coach 
earnings. The Board is recommending that the ﬁnal 
dividend for 2012 is increased by 0. 1 pence, to 6.6 pence, 
which, when added to the interim dividend of 3. 15 pence, 
represents an increase of 3% for the year as a whole. 
Subject to approval by shareholders, the ﬁnal dividend will be 
paid on 17 May to shareholders registered at 26 April 2013. 
Board
On behalf of the whole Board, I would like to thank our 
departing Chairman, John Devaney, for the fortitude and 
energy with which he has led National Express since 2009. 
We welcomed Jackie Hunt to the Board during 2012 and 
she has quickly brought her strong ﬁnancial skills and listed 
company experience to our discussions.
Our values
During my initial visits around the business, I have been 
impressed by the high level of commitment shown by the 
Group’s management and employees to its core values.  
Our employees place great value on safety, customer 
service, their colleagues and the communities in which  
we operate. Doing their difﬁcult but often rewarding jobs,  
our employees will ensure the long term sustainability  
of the Group. 
Our future
With the right strategy and initiatives in place, I am excited 
about the opportunities available for us and believe we will 
add to our pipeline of long term contracts and concessions 
within the coming months. These have the potential to 
deliver further growth and returns to shareholders. 
Sir John Armitt
Chairman 
28 February 2013
59
24
493
42
20
65
21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14
Drawn
13
24
388
230
Available
Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance 
9 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Financial statements Overview 
