 Building on our strengths 
National Express enjoys leading positions in all of its principal markets,  
which have attractive medium and long term growth characteristics.
Delivering on our strategy
Group Chief Executive’s strategic review
Introduction
The Group ended 2012 having established itself in a number 
of new and growing markets: in particular, public transit in 
North America, German Rail and German Coach. We are 
convinced that our strategy of pursuing organic growth in 
our core markets, deploying our expertise in new markets 
where we have an existing geographic presence, and 
focused debt reduction, will enable the Group to deliver 
superior returns to its shareholders. 
This has been a challenging year for the Group. We have 
overcome the loss of the National Express East Anglia 
franchise, rising fuel costs, economic recession and austerity 
in many of our markets. Group proﬁt before tax has reduced 
by £16 million year-on-year, entirely reﬂecting the loss of one 
million senior citizen passengers due to the withdrawal of 
their concessionary scheme by the UK Government. 
In each of our markets, we have taken considerable steps 
to improve the quality of our services, to reduce costs and 
grow revenues. Group revenue increased by 7%, beneﬁtting 
from acquisitions and after adjusting for rail franchises 
handed back at end of contract term. Group operating 
margin has improved by 150 basis points to a best-in-class 
1 1.6%. Operating proﬁt for the year was £21 1.9 million  
(201 1: £225.2m) as we made substantial progress in 
mitigating almost £50 million of proﬁt headwinds.  
Proﬁt before tax was £164. 1 million (201 1: £180.2m).
As many of the UK’s rail franchises reach the end of their 
current contract terms, National Express stands out as a 
diversiﬁed bus and coach operator. Our non-rail businesses 
generated a record operating proﬁt of £185.2 million  
(201 1: £181.8m). We remain the leading operator by margin in 
most of our businesses. Our core markets are sustained by 
long term, positive trends, such as outsourcing, deregulation 
and the ever-increasing cost of fuel and motoring. For our 
customers, we provide safe, reliable and frequent public 
transport services at low prices in times of austerity.  
Dean Finch
10 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012  For our investors, we are focused on driving our return  
on capital, generating strong cash ﬂows and enhancing 
future earnings through leadership in our existing and 
developing markets.
Highlights
In 2012 we achieved some impressive results, delivered  
by our high quality divisional management teams:
 UK Bus achieved revenue (+2%), proﬁt (+4%) and margin 
(+30 basis points) growth. We invested in over 200 new 
buses over the last 18 months, carried out network 
reviews in two major locations and limited fare increases, 
recognising the pressure on household budgets. In doing 
so, we have more than compensated for the £4 million 
BSOG fuel duty rebate reduction. Passenger  
satisfaction increased by 4% in the Passenger Focus  
Bus Passenger Survey.
 In North America revenue grew by 19% overall, through 
organic growth, a strong bid season with 97% contract 
retention and 26 new contract wins, and the successful 
acquisition and integration of the Petermann school bus 
business. Operating proﬁt grew by 22% to $94 million, 
including the delivery of in-year synergies of $7 million  
from Petermann and a ﬁrst contribution from our small  
but fast-growing Transit division.
 In Spain, ALSA has shown a remarkable ability to continue 
to grow revenue and maintain proﬁt. Overall revenue 
growth of 4% was driven by strong urban bus operations 
and a resilient intercity coach business. We delivered proﬁt 
unchanged at €103 million. Operating cash generation 
has been exceptional, increasing by over €70 million to 
€125 million. The quality and ﬂexibility of ALSA’s business 
model gives us conﬁdence for the future.
 Rail once again delivered a very strong performance. 
Operating proﬁt of £27 million and a margin of 13.7% were 
generated by best-in-class operations. c2c is the leading 
franchise in the UK for punctuality and customer service. 
It also won Rail Operator of the Year at the National 
Transport Awards and was voted the best commuter 
service in the UK by Which? magazine.
 We put together two very strong bids for the Essex 
Thameside and Great Western rail franchises. Whilst  
we are disappointed that the UK Government’s delay  
to the re-franchising process and cancellation of the  
Great Western bid process has wasted signiﬁcant 
investment in the bids, we hope to extend the existing 
c2c contract and look forward to restarting that franchise 
tender process later in 2013. Our c2c credentials were 
also fundamental to being selected for our ﬁrst German 
regional rail contracts in February 2013. This is an  
exciting opportunity for us to develop our position  
in this large and liberalising market.
 Our UK Coach result in 2012 was disappointing.  
We over-estimated our ability to mitigate the loss of the 
Government’s senior citizen concession funding. However, 
we grew our non-concession passenger volumes by 5% 
and started to implement structural changes in revenue, 
cost and organisation.
Alongside a record proﬁt performance from our non-rail 
businesses, we have achieved strong results in our other  
key performance metrics:
 We generated £141 million of free cash ﬂow (before rail 
franchise handover). We funded £125 million of organic 
capital investment, delivering 1,300 new vehicles into our 
ﬂeet to drive passenger and contract growth. We invested 
nearly £160 million in new acquisitions to build scale and 
market presence. We maintained our non-rail pre-tax 
return on capital at 10.6%.
 We are making excellent progress in improving our  
core safety performance, through our investment in 
Group-wide safety programmes. Responsible major 
injuries fell 67% and lost time injuries 23% on 201 1. 
Alongside our responsibility to be a safe operator,  
this will reduce future costs.
 We made good progress in developing new businesses, 
with our US Transit business achieving annual revenue 
of $65 million by the end of the year and the ﬁrst two 
contract wins under our ownership secured, alongside  
our German Rail success in February 2013.
Strategy
Two years ago I set out a strategy to drive further value from 
our core bus and coach operations and from our market 
opportunities. We have focused on improving proﬁtability 
by delivering operational excellence and driving organic 
growth across our divisions. We have targeted strong cash 
generation. We have sought to build on this platform and 
expand into new markets. 2012 has been another year of 
good progress in delivering on each part of this strategy. 
1. Delivering operational excellence
Delivering operational excellence across National  
Express requires:
 Consistent service performance for our customers;
 Continuous cost efﬁciency improvement; and 
 Living our core values every day. 
Operational excellence is crucial to our goal of achieving  
best-in-class margins. We outperformed our competitors  
in 2012 in North America school bus, Spain, UK Coach 
and Rail. In UK Bus we have almost doubled the margin 
over three years and have plans to match the best industry 
performer. Our operational excellence initiatives create more 
sustainable, efﬁcient businesses for the longer term.
“ We have focused on improving 
proﬁtability by delivering operational 
excellence and driving organic 
growth across our divisions.”
Business review Governance 
11 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Financial statements Delivering on our strategy Overview  Delivering on our strategy
Group Chief Executive’s strategic review continued 
In 2012 we delivered a number of initiatives to ensure 
consistent service performance. Our c2c rail franchise 
achieved outstanding passenger service, scoring a 
record 93% satisfaction in the National Passenger Survey 
and carrying two million passengers during the London 
Olympics. In Morocco, we extended the Agadir bus  
network, driving passenger revenue growth of over 50%.  
UK Coach implemented new customer service standards 
and improved its passenger survey rating in every category 
as a result, whilst UK Bus implemented automatic vehicle 
location to enable better schedule management and provide 
real-time information to passengers.
We are also relentlessly driving cost efﬁciencies to protect 
and grow margins across the Group. Technology is helping 
us to drive savings in every division. GPS technology and 
vehicle telemetry are bringing fuel savings in Spain, North 
America, UK Bus and UK Coach. We are now able to 
achieve better route management, monitor driving style 
and reduce the amount of engine idling, as well as ensuring 
strong cost control where routes and schedules vary,  
for example in school bus operations.
Our business models are ﬂexible, allowing us to adjust 
mileage as appropriate. In Spain, we reduced kilometres 
operated in the intercity coach business by 4% to match 
lower passenger demand by ﬂexing our outsourced supply. 
In UK Bus network optimisation reduced mileage by 1% 
whilst better meeting passenger needs. In the core UK 
Coach business we increased mileage by 3% to support 
new routes.
We continue to identify ways to make savings through 
structural change. UK Coach is consulting with employees 
to close its Crawley base, to reduce overhead cost without 
compromising network efﬁciency, saving £0.5 million a year. 
Our global procurement team delivered over £12 million  
of annual savings by leveraging the Group’s scale in ﬂeet,  
IT, telecoms and engineering.
We are also making progress in developing the Group’s 
culture around our four core values that we believe will 
support a sustainable revenue and proﬁt stream in the 
long term – Safety, Customer, People and Community. 
Our ‘Driving Out Harm’ safety programme has brought a 
signiﬁcant reduction in injuries and is helping to reduce the 
number of vehicle accidents; these have a direct ﬁnancial 
beneﬁt but, importantly, help create a better environment 
for our customers and employees. Our Customer initiative 
seeks to earn the lifetime loyalty of our passengers. In 
2012, we introduced global standards and monitoring, 
improving customer satisfaction in all divisions. Amongst our 
People initiatives, we have pooled contract management 
expertise to develop new opportunities and an international 
management scheme to reﬂect our business development. 
In the UK, we launched the National Express Foundation 
to provide support to community groups and students in 
the West Midlands, East London and South Essex. More 
information on our progress is set out in our corporate 
responsibility reporting.
16
Read more
2. Driving organic growth
In 2012 we achieved commercial revenue growth in each  
of our divisions, as we:
 Grew passenger volumes in UK Coach,  
c2c and Morocco;
 Increased contracted volumes in Spanish urban bus  
and North America school bus;
 Secured new bid wins in Spain and North America; and
 Integrated bolt-on acquisitions with growth and  
margin potential.
The Group continues to build a strong pipeline of contracted 
revenues, with £3.6 billion, equivalent to 3. 1 years of Group 
revenues that are either contracted or operated on an 
exclusive concession basis. We have added just under  
£2 billion of new revenue during the last 12 months. In North 
America this included 26 new school bus contracts, of 
which eight were conversion opportunities, adding a total of 
1,300 new buses. We also won our ﬁrst two contracts in the 
recently launched Transit business. At ALSA we have added 
eight new contracts, including an extension to services in 
Agadir and contracts in Cadiz and Guadalajara, which were 
secured through competitive bids against existing operators. 
In Germany, we have recently been selected to run our ﬁrst 
two rail contracts, starting in late 2015. 
Average revenue yield increased by 2% in 2012. Contract 
prices increased in School Bus, reﬂecting improving market 
conditions and customer recognition of the quality of service 
we offer. In our Urban contracts in Spain we secured an 
average price increase of 3%. In UK Bus, commercial 
revenue increased by 3%, delivered through fare increases 
that remain affordable for our customers. In UK Coach  
we reduced average commercial yield by 4%, driving  
a 5% increase in passenger journeys and supporting  
our value positioning.
We operate in highly competitive markets and our customers 
are affected by austerity. Looking to the future, therefore, we 
must strive to improve further the value we offer, the service 
we deliver and ensure we are always competitive. We will 
continue to drive growth, through investment in technology 
and through initiatives to better manage ﬂeet utilisation.  
In UK Coach, the ﬁrst stage of an improved revenue 
management system will be implemented later in 2013,  
with a more advanced package to follow. This will 
allow better real-time management of fares, promoting 
travel on less utilised services and ensuring fares are 
always competitive. This in turn should deliver healthy 
organic growth, supported by our initiatives to improve 
understanding, targeting and marketing to key customer 
segments. In UK Bus we will pilot commercial smart cards 
from the second quarter of 2013, supported by investment 
this year in £25 million of new buses in the West Midlands, 
including 30 hybrid vehicles, as we focus on increasing  
and sustaining the number of passenger journeys. In Spain, 
as well as all of our UK operations, we are developing mobile 
applications that will make ticket purchasing and real-time 
tracking of vehicles easier for our customers, improving  
the quality of their journeys.
17
Read more
12 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012  3. Generating superior cash and returns
Through successful implementation of our strategy,  
National Express:
 Continues to deliver excellent cash generation;
 Underpins its operations with a sound debt and dividend 
policy; and
 Is growing non-rail return on capital through disciplined 
capital deployment across the Group.
Long term cash generation is a key tenet for us, driving 
shareholder value creation and supporting future returns  
to shareholders.
2012 has been another good year for the Group in this 
regard, as strong EBITDA, efﬁcient cash management and 
selective capital deployment have combined to increase 
operating cash ﬂow signiﬁcantly. Operating cash ﬂow 
increased by £50 million to £209.6 million, with operating 
cash conversion of 99%. Spain alone generated  
£101 million of cash this year; of key importance, we are 
being paid promptly by our municipal customers, with 2012 
seeing a £20 million reduction in outstanding receivables 
balances. Our free cash ﬂow of £141 million and low debt 
position supported an investment of nearly £160 million  
in acquisitions – of Petermann school bus and the creation  
of our US Transit business, as well as funding the handover 
of the East Anglia franchise.
The focus on cash generation will continue. Our target is 
to generate £125 million to £150 million per annum in free 
cash ﬂow over the next two years. Our gearing policy is to 
maintain net debt between 2 and 2.5 times EBITDA. In 2012 
our gearing was at the upper end of our range. We plan to 
reduce this to 2 times by the end of 2014, enabling further 
choices over future investment and return of capital  
to shareholders.
Pre-tax return on capital employed (ROCE) from the  
non-rail business (the rail business does not utilise capital) 
was maintained at 10.6% in 2012. We will continue to target 
capital deployment carefully, combining it with further 
improvement of margins to enhance ROCE, and releasing 
capital where appropriate. Our ﬂeet is well-invested across 
the Group, and we are committed to maintaining an 
appropriate level of investment in each business. This will  
see us add 1 15 buses in UK Bus in 2013 and 230 vehicles  
in ALSA. In North America we will continue to cascade 
existing ﬂeet, improving utilisation as we consolidate the 
Petermann ﬂeet into our operations. In addition, our range  
of new market opportunities are capital-light, allowing  
ROCE to continue to improve over time, a key measure  
of shareholder value creation for us.
18
Read more
4.  Delivering new opportunities from  
capital-light markets
Our strategy is also to target geographies which have,  
or are, liberalising their public transport markets. This is:
 Creating a pipeline of long term, sustainable transport 
operations;
 Leveraging the Group’s expertise running passenger 
transport services in adjacent markets; operating in the 
same or similar modes of transport; and building scale  
in selected geographies; and
 Representing primarily capital-light opportunities which  
will not require signiﬁcant asset investment. 
National Express is unique amongst its peers in owning  
a diversiﬁed portfolio of assets that provides a platform for 
growth in attractive markets. ALSA has a strong reputation 
outside Spain. In Morocco we expect to bid for further urban 
contracts, alongside our existing Marrakech and Agadir 
operations which have driven recent revenue and proﬁt 
growth. As the largest scheduled European coach operator, 
we are launching ‘city2city’ in April in Germany’s newly 
liberalised coach market, taking the best of the ALSA  
and UK Coach business models.
Within eight months of initial acquisition in 2012, we built  
a Transit business in North America that had annual 
revenue of $65 million. In addition, we have a bid pipeline 
of $100 million of revenue opportunities, with total capital 
requirements of only $7 million. Like urban contracts in Spain 
and Morocco, these can be mobilised rapidly on award and 
are proﬁtable from the start.
Building on the strong credentials of our leading c2c 
franchise, we invested in a bid team in German rail early 
in 2012. We are very pleased to have been selected for 
our ﬁrst rail contracts in Germany, which are due to start 
operations in late 2015. This will expand into a portfolio of low 
risk, smaller rail contracts in regional rail franchises. These 
contracts offer a similar proﬁle to a UK franchise in duration, 
capital requirement and margin, but with less revenue and 
guarantee risk.
We will continue to expand the Group’s capability to secure 
contracts to operate public transportation services. As the 
leading public transport operator by proﬁtability in Europe, 
we are currently looking at a number of opportunities where 
we can use National Express’ intellectual capital  
and reputation to explore new markets.
19
Read more
Prospects for the future
In 2013 we expect to make good progress in growing  
our business in UK Bus, UK Coach and North America.  
In Spain, we have already submitted our ﬁrst intercity coach 
concession bid and are focused on protecting and growing 
our market share during the renewal process. In Rail, we 
are in discussions to extend our c2c franchise and will 
participate in future franchise opportunities.
Looking to the future, we believe we have the right strategy  
in place to deliver long term value for our shareholders. 
Firstly, we will continue to drive organic growth and better 
margins, by focusing on improving the quality and value 
offered by our operations, attracting customers, increasing 
revenue and creating a more efﬁcient cost base. Secondly, 
we will drive cash generation, reducing gearing to two  
times over the next two years and deploying capital in  
a cautious, targeted way. Thirdly, we will continue to add 
to the signiﬁcant pipeline of bid and market opportunities 
in North America, Europe and North Africa, where our 
expertise in operating bus, coach and rail services is already 
proving successful.
Dean Finch
Group Chief Executive 
28 February 2013
Business review Governance 
13 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Financial statements Delivering on our strategy Overview 
