 Overview
Chairman’s letter
Dear shareholder, 
I am delighted to report that, in 201 1, National Express 
has delivered another successful year of business 
turnaround and improvement. 
I am delighted to report that in 201 1 
National Express has delivered another 
successful year of business turnaround 
and improvement. We have now 
completed the process of recreating a 
high quality business, building on the 
foundations that we put in place in 2010 
and delivering both improved profitability 
and strong revenue growth. National 
Express is now the best performing private 
provider of mass transportation in many  
of the markets in which it operates. 
201 1 has been a record year for Group 
statutory profit before tax and amortisation. 
Back in 2009, when I joined as Chairman, 
the Group was struggling for its business 
survival. However, we reduced our debt, 
resolved the losses in our East Coast rail 
franchise, maintained our independence 
and, with strong shareholder support, put 
in place an appropriate capital structure. 
Since his arrival in February 2010, Dean 
Finch has created a new leadership team 
which has turned the business around, 
delivering effective operational control, 
driving out excess cost and helping to 
refinance the Group’s debt. 201 1 has 
seen further margin improvement, organic 
growth supported by acquisition, and the 
identification of future growth opportunities. 
2012 is likely to present difficult economic 
challenges but we have created a platform 
from which to grow, both organically and 
through acquisition, highlighted by our 
decision to acquire Petermann Partners 
Inc, which is due to complete during the 
first half of the year.
With our turnaround complete, we are 
now implementing the next stage of our 
strategy: to continue to improve margin in 
our existing businesses; to take advantage 
of the growth opportunities in our current 
markets; and to identify and develop 
exciting new market potential. It will be 
delivered by a management team that  
has proven credentials in every area of  
our operations and we will strengthen the 
team further to ensure that we have the 
skills to deliver each aspect of our strategy. 
Our vision for the Group is to put our 
customers first, to a level that will clearly 
differentiate National Express in the mass 
transport market.
During the first half of 201 1, the Board 
took steps to further enhance its skills 
and experience, particularly recognising 
the Group’s future growth plans for North 
America and Continental Europe. I was 
very pleased to welcome Chris Muntwyler, 
Joaquín Ayuso and Lee Sander to the 
Board, each with credentials in our target 
markets. Since their appointment,  
they have given valuable insight into  
these growth areas, as well as helping  
to manage the risks and opportunities  
in our existing markets. 
In recognition of the Group’s sound 
financial footing and improved earnings, 
we restored the dividend last year with 
a final payment for 2010 of 6 pence 
per share. We set out a policy that the 
Board considers both sustainable and 
progressive in this prolonged period of 
economic uncertainty – we will aim for our 
dividend to be at least two times covered 
by non-rail earnings and fully funded by our 
free cash flow, across the medium term. 
At the same time, we reiterated our debt 
policy, to target a gearing ratio of between 
two and two and a half times earnings 
before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (EBITDA). 
We remain committed to these core 
policies, which provide shareholders with 
a suitable balance of long-term growing 
returns whilst retaining sufficient resource 
in the Group to explore opportunities to 
grow shareholder value. Following  
payment of our interim 201 1 dividend  
of 3 pence per share in September, I am 
pleased to announce a recommended final 
dividend for 201 1 of 6.5 pence per share, 
an increase of 8.3%, taking the full year 
payment to 9.5 pence per share. This will 
be paid from the 20.3 pence of non-rail 
earnings per share (EPS) delivered in 201 1 
and the £84.4 million of free cash flow we 
generated in the year, both of which we 
expect to grow in future years.
During 201 1, our employees have 
continued to play a major part in the 
implementation of our strategy, adopting 
our vision and values, with particular 
focus on improvements to customer 
service and in the promotion of a culture 
of safety across the Group. On behalf of 
the Board, I would like to thank them for 
the commitment and enthusiasm that they 
have shown, as we move into the next 
phase of our development.
John Devaney
Chairman
29 February 2012
For more information on Corporate 
Governance and our Board of Directors, 
please go to nationalexpressgroup.
com/ar2011
John Devaney
2
