 Strategic Report: 
Chairman’s statement 
Building a sustainable business 
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to report that National Express 
has delivered another year of good financial 
and operational performance. Our core non-rail 
businesses have continued to make progress, 
achieving a record normalised operating profit 
and producing excellent free cash flow. 
Delivering our strategy
Our portfolio of bus and coach operations in 
different geographies is a key strength. First,  
our services deliver excellent value for customers, 
meeting the needs of the challenging economic 
environment – National Express companies play 
an essential role in getting passengers to work, 
to school and to see family and friends. Second, 
our approach to operational excellence, which 
we are embedding across all of our operations, 
is delivering great customer service, efficiency 
and safety. 
The balance of our portfolio means that we 
have been able to grow in UK Coach and 
North America School Bus, while we have 
mitigated much of the impact of recession and 
government austerity in Spain and UK Bus. 
At the same time, we continue to operate the 
best performing rail franchise in the UK. This 
has helped us to pre-qualify for three UK rail 
franchises currently out to tender. It has also 
provided the platform to win our first contracts 
in the German regional rail market from 2015 
and pre-qualify for more.
I am excited by the further opportunities which 
we see, in both existing and new markets. 
During our Board visit to Morocco in 2013, we 
were able to experience the success that this 
market has become for National Express. Not 
only have we now started our third domestic 
bus concession, in Tangiers, but it is also 
a strong credential for other international 
opportunities, where the development and 
liberalisation of public transport are common 
themes. I believe these opportunities can  
add further to the shareholder returns that  
we generate from our core businesses.
2013 results
In 2013 we delivered a normalised profit before 
tax of £143.7 million and a statutory profit for the 
year of £58.3 million. We generated over £180 
million of free cash flow, which we have used to 
reduce net debt, fund ongoing investment in our 
fleet and invest in new business development. 
Our Board policy is to maintain debt gearing 
between 2 and 2.5 times EBITDA and we 
continue to achieve this. I am pleased to see 
that total shareholder return of 41% for the year 
has reflected the performance and progress  
we have delivered.
Dividend
We have a clear, sustainable dividend policy –  
to pay a dividend that is covered approximately 
twice by our non-rail earnings. The Board  
is recommending that the final dividend  
is increased to 6.75 pence, which, when  
added to the interim dividend of 3.25 pence, 
represents an increase of 3% for the year as  
a whole. Subject to approval by shareholders, 
the final dividend will be paid on 23 May 2014  
to shareholders on the register on 2 May 2014. 
Board
Optimising the skills, diversity and experience of 
the Board is key. Thus I am delighted to welcome 
Jane Kingston as a Non-Executive Director. 
Jane is Group Human Resources Director 
at Compass Group and will make a strong 
contribution to Board and people matters. 
At the same time, Tim Score has stepped  
down from the Board after serving for nine years. 
I would like to thank Tim for his commitment 
and contribution over that period, acting as 
Senior Independent Director, Chair of the Audit 
Committee and, at one point, Interim Chairman. 
Jackie Hunt will take over as Chair of the Audit 
Committee and as Senior Independent Director. 
I greatly value Sir Andrew Foster’s support and 
guidance and welcome his decision to take up 
the offer to remain as a Director until the 2015 
Annual General Meeting to ensure continuity  
on the Board. 
Sir John Armitt
Chairman 
27 February 2014
04 National Express Group PLC  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our values and employees
At National Express, we have a set of values 
that are at the heart of everything we do. 
Operational Excellence now sits alongside 
Safety, Customers, People and Community. 
These values are demonstrated every day by 
our 42,000 committed employees, reflected  
in the high levels of employee engagement  
I have seen in the UK, US and other locations 
around the Group. 
The Board strongly believes that it has the 
right systems of governance in place to ensure 
that National Express is delivering on its Vision 
and Values and thereby has a sustainable 
and profitable future in its selected transport 
markets. We are determined to build on the 
good progress that we are already making 
in every area and will continue to monitor 
development on a regular basis. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
all of our employees for their hard work during 
2013 and their ongoing commitment to  
National Express. 
I look forward to 2014 with confidence.  
We have a sound strategy and strong market 
positions, and a range of business development 
opportunities that can deliver additional growth 
and improved shareholder returns.
Sir John Armitt
Chairman 
27 February 2014
Our vision is to earn the lifetime loyalty of our customers by consistently 
delivering frequent, high performing public transport services which offer 
excellent value.
Safety
We only do what is safe and stop any unsafe behaviour
Customers
We place them at the heart of our business and relentlessly meet  
their expectations
People
We develop the talents, reward the exceptional performance and 
respect the rights of all our employees
Community
We are active in the communities we serve to generate economic, 
social and environmental value
Excellence 
We constantly strive to be excellent in all that we do
“ T otal shareholder return of 41 % 
for the year has reflected the 
performance and progress  
we have delivered.”
05 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report pp01-51
