 Strategic Report
Group Chief Executive’s review
We are making sound progress in our strategy
Overview of 2014
National Express has delivered a good performance in 2014 with Group 
revenue up 2.3% on a constant currency basis and both statutory and 
normalised profit before tax also up on a constant currency basis by 
10% and nearly 7% respectively. Our free cash generation remains very 
strong, again beating our target for the year, and during the course of 
the year we have reduced net debt by over £80 million. We renewed a 
number of key concessions in the year and also successfully expanded 
our business into new markets.
This performance demonstrates both the resilience and strength of our 
businesses. We have had to overcome significant challenges from the 
first half of the year, especially poor weather in the US, strike action in 
Spain and significant currency headwinds. Together these challenging 
events reduced profits by £5 million at the half year. To have recovered 
from this position and delivered such a strong second half of the year 
is a particularly pleasing result. 
To achieve these results, we have again made good progress against 
our three strategic goals:
First, our operational excellence programme continues to be embedded 
across the business. We place customers at the heart of our strategy, 
causing us to focus on delivering continuously improving services whilst 
maintaining a relentless attention to efficiency to enable us to offer good 
value fares. This has helped every division deliver an increase in revenue 
and passenger numbers this year. The UK businesses have seen 
particularly good increases in revenues and passengers resulting in 
strong profit growth in UK Bus and UK Coach. UK Coach profits 
increased significantly to £28.0 million (2013: £24.5m), and have now 
grown 36% in two years. UK Bus has also performed very strongly, 
with profits increasing to £34.0 million (2013: £31.2m) and its pioneering 
partnership with Centro – Transforming Bus Travel – winning two 
industry best practice awards in the year.
Pleasingly, the benefits of our focus on operational excellence have 
also been seen in our customer satisfaction scores, with most of our 
operations leaders in their markets. North American School Bus, for 
example, has retained 97% of its contracts, significantly ahead of its 
peers. Over 93% of customers would also recommend us to other 
school boards, with quality of service, safety and value being the 
key considerations.
We are determined to maintain this progress. Building on c2c’s success 
in achieving a five star rating in the European Foundation for Quality 
Management assessment, UK Coach was awarded a four star rating 
in its first assessment. UK Coach is determined to emulate c2c and 
secure a five star rating at its next assessment. The other divisions will 
soon be undertaking similar exercises as part of our programme to 
drive operational excellence across the Group.
Second, as well as these notable successes, our focus on operational 
excellence is also underpinning our success in our strategic goal of 
generating superior cash and returns, with another year of excellent 
cash flow. We have again exceeded our free cash flow target for the 
year by £40 million, with £190 million delivered in the period. This 
has enabled us to further reduce net debt by over £80 million to 
£664.3 million, representing a gearing ratio of 2.25 times EBITDA. 
Group ROCE has also increased to 12.4% (2013: 1 1.7%) reflecting our 
continuous focus on delivering strong returns on our capital. This has 
underpinned improving returns to shareholders, with a proposed full 
year dividend up 3% to 10.3 pence per share. Even before this dividend 
nearly £200 million has been returned to shareholders since 201 1 and 
in the past two years net debt has been reduced by £164 million.
We have incurred over £40 million in rationalisation and restructuring 
costs this year. Our strategic rationalisation programme in the US saw 
us make significant progress on exiting commercially unattractive 
contracts, with all such contracts now provided for. Coupled with rising 
prices in North America, we are confident this programme will deliver 
rising returns in the future. Following the success of this ‘up or out’ 
strategy we conducted a similar review in Spain. We also restructured 
across the Group, to remove costs and enhance future earnings. 
Together, these rationalisation and restructuring programmes have 
made us more efficient and better able to meet the challenges and 
opportunities ahead and will help deliver improved returns in the 
coming years.
Third, we have generated growth in new markets. During the year we 
won a ten-year contract to operate buses in Bahrain. We believe this 
positions us well locally in Bahrain where there is scope for further 
growth, and also within the growing Middle Eastern market. We 
withdrew from the German coach market during the year due to its 
unrealistic pricing structure making it impossible to sustain a profitable, 
quality service. We were also disappointed to have come second in 
both the Crossrail and ScotRail competitions, with the ScotRail result 
particularly disappointing as we were within 0.24% of the winning bid. 
More recently we have, however, secured our third and fourth contract 
wins in German rail, with our success in the Nuremberg S-Bahn 
contract. These 12 year contracts, generating €1.4 billion of revenue, will 
begin operation in December 2018 and represent further expansion for 
us in Europe’s largest liberalising rail market. Deutsche Bahn has again 
chosen to challenge the award, as they did unsuccessfully with our 
previous two contracts in North Rhine-Westphalia. We therefore remain 
confident of the award being confirmed in due course.
Dean Finch
Group Chief Executive 
26 February 2015
National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 8 This new market growth has also complemented the significant 
progress we have made in retaining existing contracts, including our 
largest US transit contract and our largest Spanish concession to have 
come up for renewal to date. Our success in winning the Essex 
Thameside franchise competition means that our industry-leading c2c 
services will continue, securing around £4 billion of revenue and our 
presence in UK rail until 2029. Coupled with our 15 and 12 year 
contracts in Germany – themselves worth around €3 billion in revenue 
– we enter 2015 with both strong credentials and a uniquely long-term 
future in the rail industry.
Highlights
Highlights of 2014 included:
• In constant currency terms the Group delivered a 2% increase in 
revenue and 7% increase in normalised profit before tax. This is a 
significant achievement, overcoming the headwinds in the first half of 
the year. Earnings per share increased to 22.7 pence (2013: 21.5p). 
Group ROCE increased to 12.4% and free cash flow of £190 million 
again exceeded our target. An increase in the proposed full year 
dividend to 10.3 pence per share is funded within our robust policy 
of two times non-rail earnings cover.
• UK Coach has grown revenue by 4%. UK Coach’s profits have 
grown by 36% in two years, with operating margin increasing over 
the same period by over 25% to reach 10.2%. We believe there are 
good opportunities for further growth as a focus on journey time 
improvements is combined with a continued emphasis on the 
customer, including the increasing use of targeted marketing. 
These initiatives continue to make our offer ever more attractive 
to customers and drive improved returns.
• UK Bus has had another strong year, with revenue growth of 
2.8% and West Midlands commercial patronage increasing 0.8%. 
Our industry-leading Transforming Bus Travel partnership won two 
awards during 2014 and provides a stability that allows us to deliver 
significant investment in improving services. 2014’s Passenger 
Focus results saw our services secure the fastest growth in 
customer satisfaction of any urban operator. This progress is 
something we are looking to build on in 2015 with initiatives such as 
the extension of our smart-ticketing system to trams and Pay As You 
Go. This will be underpinned by record investment in new vehicles 
and continued close working with local authorities to improve journey 
times and reliability.
• In Rail, we successfully retained the c2c franchise during 2014, 
guaranteeing our future in UK rail until 2029. c2c has maintained 
its industry-leading performance for a third consecutive year and 
delivered 6% revenue growth and 2% passenger growth in year. 
A slight decline in 2014’s profit and margin is explained by the more 
onerous contract terms during the franchise extension in place to 
September last year. We are encouraged by the passenger response 
so far to the new franchise’s focus on customer service. Investment 
in Wi-Fi and new advance purchase off-peak tickets are already 
proving popular. With new flexible ticketing and pioneering automatic 
delay-repay compensation being introduced in due course, we are 
confident this enhanced customer service offer will continue to 
be popular.
• North America delivered a strong second half performance to 
overcome the $6. 1 million impact of the extreme weather in the first 
half and ended the year with both revenue and profit growth in 
constant currency. In the last five years North American School Bus 
has more than doubled its profitability to £59.5 million (2009: 
£25.3m). We made good progress on improving the quality of the 
portfolio by exiting poorly performing contracts and targeting those 
with better returns. This was complemented by a significant bolt-on 
acquisition in Philadelphia and our largest ever conversion contract 
in Memphis. US Transit also secured its largest contract (MBTA) for 
a further eight years. Our return on assets increased again to 23.8%. 
Better pricing discipline in the market, combined with our ongoing 
focus on efficient capital deployment, means we are optimistic 
about our prospects in North America. As set out below, we believe 
we have significant opportunity for further growth in North America. 
• Spain delivered an increase in revenue in local currency but a decline 
in operating profit to €94. 1 million (2013: €96.0m) because of the 
impact of ongoing rail competition and a significant strike in April. 
The implementation of revenue management and an improved 
service offer on the affected rail competed routes led to an improved 
performance in the second half with passenger growth at 4% and 
revenue only 2% lower on the affected routes. Strong growth in 
Morocco continued, including the benefit of a full year of the Tangier 
operation. ALSA also successfully retained its Bizkaia contract, the 
largest to come up for renewal so far. As the number of concession 
renewals increases in the coming years, we believe the benefits of 
our focus on cost efficiency and revenue management mean we 
are well placed to achieve our aim of maintaining market share.
Our partnership with Centro on Transforming Bus Travel in the West Midlands 
was recognised by two industry awards in 2014
9 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report
Group Chief Executive’s review continued
Strategy
These results demonstrate how our consistent strategy has been 
improving returns for shareholders and positions us well for future 
growth opportunities.
Delivering operational excellence
Our success in recent years has been rooted in operational excellence. 
It is also increasingly clear that our future success depends on it. It is 
what our customers demand. As our most recent successes in German 
rail and Bahrain demonstrate, a reputation for operational excellence has 
been crucial in winning contracts in new markets.
For National Express, excellence means delivering continuously 
improving services whilst ensuring a relentless focus on efficiency. Our 
aim is for National Express to be known for both excellence in the quality 
of our operations and price leadership.
For quality, safety is fundamental and remains our first priority. We have 
made important progress since launching Driving Out Harm in 2010. 
And I am pleased that our independent assessors, Arthur D Little, have 
reported a year on year improvement in our Fatalities and Weighted 
Injuries Index measure of safety of 17% and a reduction in total 
responsible harm of 54% in four years. However, safety requires 
a relentless focus, and our ambition remains to eradicate all harm 
from our business and achieve world class standards of safety.
Another crucial aspect of quality is the delivery of punctual, high 
performing services. At any one time in peak hours, we have over 
23,000 vehicles on the road or rail. We are proud that c2c has now 
been the UK’s most punctual operator for three years running as well 
as holding the annual and four-week records. Our UK Coach business 
has recently signed a ground-breaking agreement with the Highways 
Agency to help improve our punctuality and reliability.
We remain focused on operating as efficiently as possible, to help 
maintain our prices as competitively as we can. The £31 million of cost 
savings delivered during 2014 is higher than in 2013. Across the Group 
many of the businesses have delivered year on year improvements in 
value for money scores in their customer surveys and all carried more 
passengers in 2014 compared with 2013. A particular highlight is our 
UK Coach business being named the country’s ‘most trusted ground 
transportation company’ by the Institute of Customer Service.
An important part of our strategy is delivering price leadership and value 
for money for our customers. We are particularly pleased that all of our 
divisions have grown patronage as it demonstrates that our excellent 
prices and deals are effective. Within the UK, for example, this year we 
are investing over £23 million in great value fares such as our coach 
FunFares, rewards for frequent bus users and new advanced off-peak 
fares in rail.
Getting the combination of price and quality right means we go some 
way to delivering on our vision of earning customers’ lifetime loyalty. 
Passengers are more likely to continue to use our services above other 
choices because they are receiving a good service at a good price. 
Equally, contracting authorities or businesses are less likely to retender 
services or are more likely to award us new contracts if we consistently 
deliver excellence.
This is why I am particularly pleased with our retention of major contracts 
in 2014: the 15 year c2c rail franchise; ten year Bizkaia contract in Bilbao; 
and, the five-year MBTA para-transit contract in Boston. 
Results such as our North American School Bus business retaining over 
97% of its contracts and UK Bus demonstrating the fastest growth in 
passenger satisfaction of any urban operator in the 2014 Passenger 
Focus survey are further evidence of our continued progress.
Superior cash and returns
Cash generation has been a particular focus of National Express. 
We have made this a priority because free cash flow pays dividends 
for shareholders, funds future growth and reduces debt.
In 2014 we have again made significant progress in delivering on our 
targets. We have delivered £190 million of free cash, £40 million ahead 
of target. National Express has now delivered £1 billion of free cash 
since 2009.
Over the year, net debt has been reduced by over £80 million to 
£664.3 million, a gearing ratio of 2.25 times EBITDA.
We increased the Group’s ROCE in 2014 to 12.4%, a 6% increase 
year-on-year. We invested £51 million of net capital during 2014 and 
have continued to deploy capital where it will deliver the best returns. 
We have further improved our Group operating margin in 2014, to 
10.3%. And we continue to target both margin and ROCE improvement 
in the coming years.
We set out our plan to reduce our gearing ratio by the end of 2014 to 
help mitigate the key risks the business faced: the loss of the c2c 
franchise and Spanish concession renewals. These risks have either not 
materialised (with the c2c franchise success) or been delayed (Spanish 
concessions). We also identified new opportunities for increased 
investment during 2014, to generate shareholder value in the coming 
years. We believe there are further opportunities in the coming years 
and are therefore pausing our deleveraging (while staying within our 
published target) to use our continued strong cash generation to invest 
in specific new growth opportunities that meet our strict financial and 
strategic criteria.
Creating new business opportunities
We believe the principal opportunity for increased investment to 
deliver strong growth over the medium term is in our North American 
business. We have already demonstrated our ability to grow this 
business significantly in recent years: over the last five years North 
American School Bus has more than doubled its profits. Additionally, 
over the same period, through a disciplined approach to capital 
allocation and contract selection, we have nearly doubled margins 
in North America to 9.6% from 5.7% and have improved our RoA by 
1 18% to 23.8%.
The first of our new German trains rolls off the production line
National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 10 There are excellent opportunities for growth given this market’s highly 
fragmented nature and the continuing trend for conversions. There are 
over 10,000 private school bus businesses in the United States. Indeed, 
in the last year we successfully bolted-on a new school bus business in 
Philadelphia that operates 318 routes. Through improved operational 
standards, Group purchasing power and management synergies from 
integration with our existing nearby locations, we will have paid for the 
acquisition within three years. We also won our largest ever conversion 
contract, in Shelby County, Tennessee. This delivered 440 new buses to 
the 285 we already operated, as we integrated the operations previously 
run by the local school board. Our success in integrating our major 
Petermann acquisition three years ago is further evidence of our strong 
credentials here.
With greater consolidation and increased outsourcing in the market, our 
reputation for excellence, strong capital discipline and cash generation 
and industry-leading team provides the Group with a strong opportunity 
for further growth in North American School Bus.
US Transit also continues to provide opportunities for further growth. 
2014 was the second consecutive year where we have retained 100% 
of our contracted revenue up for renewal, including the largest contract 
– MBTA. We also secured a fixed-route transit services contract in 
Yuma, Arizona, the first contract in this heavily contracted state and a 
strategic target of the division. Building on this we are currently working 
on a pipeline of over $300 million of annualised revenues and believe 
this remains an attractive market.
In addition, our unique portfolio of diversified bus, coach and rail 
businesses means National Express is well placed to grow in selected 
other markets, to complement this opportunity for expansion in 
North America. We believe Morocco, for example, provides good 
opportunities for further growth, building on our significant progress 
there in recent years. 
We have also made significant progress during 2014 in growing in 
other markets. Our success in securing a ten-year contract in Bahrain 
opens both that country and the wider Middle East to further growth. 
Our recent award of the Nuremberg S-Bahn network is a clear 
demonstration of the opportunity for further growth in the exciting 
German rail market. We will begin operating services on our North 
Rhine-Westphalia contracts in December this year and have an active 
bidding pipeline. We are currently shortlisted for three German contracts 
and there are up to 30 new tenders coming up in the next two years. 
We are also monitoring rail liberalisation in Spain.
As the operator of the UK’s best performing franchise, we will continue 
to monitor opportunities in the UK rail market. We will maintain our 
selective and disciplined approach and only bid where we feel our 
expertise will significantly improve the service for passengers and deliver 
acceptable returns to shareholders. However, through our successes in 
Germany and c2c we have now secured more than £6 billion of future 
revenue in rail.
Outlook 
During 2015 we expect our UK rail, bus and coach businesses to 
build on their good progress during 2014 and to continue to perform 
well with strong cash generation. In Spain the main contract renewal 
process starts this year but any impact from new terms for our larger 
concessions is unlikely to be felt until 2017 . Whilst we expect some 
margin pressure on renewal as is normal, we believe ALSA can 
mitigate this risk through a combination of significant revenue and cost 
management actions, as well as securing new growth opportunities. 
We are determined to retain a significant market share in Spain and as 
market leaders have demonstrated our ability to compete effectively. 
We also expect the Group to continue to successfully exploit a 
number of important opportunities in the Middle East, North Africa 
and Germany. We are currently working on an active pipeline worth 
£8 billion of annualised revenues.
The benefits from these new opportunities as well as our existing 
businesses will continue to be reflected in the strong cash generation, 
with a target of £100 million this year. We will continue to focus on 
margin and ROCE improvement and we are not anticipating there to 
be any exceptional costs from reorganisation or restructuring in 2015. 
As  previously stated, we are changing the accounting treatment of bid 
costs to be included in normal operating costs.
The recent focus of our cash flow has been on debt reduction and 
growing our dividend. We increased investment in new business 
opportunities during 2014 and believe we are now in a strong position 
to exploit other new growth opportunities with a focus in the North 
American school bus market, where we have more than doubled 
profitability in the past five years. While we will remain within our published 
target, we believe we have the opportunity to use our continued strong 
cash generation to invest in new growth opportunities that meet our strict 
financial and strategic criteria. There are excellent opportunities in the 
North American market given its highly fragmented nature and the 
continuing trend in conversions. The success of last year’s bolt-on 
acquisition in Philadelphia and the largest ever conversion contract 
in Memphis demonstrates the opportunity here and we will continue 
to apply our proven model of excellence to deliver the services our 
customers value as well as generating good returns for our shareholders.
Dean Finch
Group Chief Executive
26 February 2015
The Bahraini Minister of Transport marks the launch of our new 
bus service in Bahrain
11 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
