 02 National Grid plc
Chairman’s Statement
Sir John Parker
Board
In January 2007, the role of Chief Executive successfully
transferred from Roger Urwin to Steve Holliday. Steve served 
as Deputy Chief Executive from April 2006 through to December,
when Roger stood down. The Non-executive Directors agreed 
a handover plan of responsibility and this assisted in ensuring 
a smooth transition and providing management continuity. The
success of this approach is demonstrated by the continued
strength of the Company’s performance throughout this period.
Roger’s depth of experience and leadership will be missed and 
all the Directors wish him well in his new ventures. 
I am confident that Steve will provide strong leadership of the
Executive team as we enter a new phase in the development 
of National Grid. I also believe that our new operating model 
and our refreshed strategy will position us to take full advantage
of the value creating opportunities we foresee over the next 
few years.
Other changes to the Board saw Mike Jesanis step down as 
an Executive Director of National Grid. He had been with the
Company for 23 years and had been a member of the Board
since July 2004. We will miss his contributions and knowledge
and we wish him well in the future. 
Paul Joskow, one of our Non-executive Directors, has
announced his intention to stand down after the Annual General
Meeting in July. He has been a member of the Board since 2000
and his support and advice have been greatly valued throughout
this time.
I am pleased to welcome Mark Fairbairn as the Executive Director
responsible for our Gas Distribution business in the UK and US.
Mark has worked within National Grid for 18 years in a variety 
of roles, most recently as Chief Operating Officer of our UK gas
distribution business.
We welcome Linda Adamany to the Board as a new 
Non-executive Director. Her energy sector experience in the US
market, in particular, will further strengthen the Board. 
Following the expected completion of the KeySpan acquisition,
we will be welcoming Bob Catell as Deputy Chairman. Bob is
currently the Chairman and CEO of KeySpan. 
We will seek to ensure that the Board reflects the broadly 
equal US and UK split of the business following the KeySpan
acquisition.
I believe our refreshed strategy
will position us to take full
advantage of the value creating
opportunities we foresee over
the next few years.  1,000
We aim to have placed 
1,000 young people in training 
and jobs through the ‘Young 
Offender Programme’ by the 
end of this calendar year
47.7p
Adjusted earnings per share
†
for continuing operations
48.1p earnings per share 
for continuing operations
28.7p
Ordinary dividends
Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07 03
Operating and
Financial Review
Corporate
Governance
Business 
Overview
Directors’
Reports
Financial
Statements
Shareholder
Information
The Board continues to support a robust process of review 
of its own performance and that of its Committees. We also
devote time to the programmes we have in place to identify 
and develop the leaders of the future, which is the basis of 
good management succession planning. We attach importance 
to giving people in the boardroom and throughout our organisation
the right opportunities and experience to grow and develop. 
We see these as crucial investments in the best interests of 
all our stakeholders now and into the future. 
Safety
Safety is at the heart of our activities and it continues to be 
at the top of the Board’s agenda. It is disappointing to see 
that the injury rate has increased this year so we are conscious
that we must increase our safety focus and ensure that it
remains a top priority in all our activities, including with 
our contractors, as we deliver a larger capital investment
programme over the next five years. The Board is supported 
in this critical area, and in its management of the environment
and its other corporate responsibilities, by the diligent work 
of the Risk and Responsibility Committee. 
As part of the continued focus on safety, I was delighted by 
the quality of entries for this year’s Chairman’s awards, which 
aim to encourage innovation and continuous improvement in
safety, health and environmental performance by recognising
outstanding achievements in these fields. The winners ranged
from flat bed truck safety rails through to the development and
introduction of new operating procedures. More details of some 
of these can be found later in the Business Overview section. 
Dividend policy 
The Board has approved a final dividend of 17.8p per ordinary
share, resulting in a total dividend of 28.7p per ordinary share, 
an increase of 10%. This year-on-year increase reflects our belief
that the business is in a position to deliver good growth for
shareholders through continuing cost efficiencies and capital
growth. We will carry on with the strategic refocusing of the
business and disciplined approach to investment. Our aim
continues to be to increase sterling dividends per ordinary 
share by 7% per year through to March 2008.
Governance
The Board is committed to pursuing leading governance
practices – we strive for constant improvement through rigorous
review of our internal processes. This year, we have undertaken 
a comprehensive review of business processes and systems to
ensure compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley requirements. 
Community investment
Support for and involvement with our local communities and
customers continues to be important to us. Through our
programmes of community investment in both our UK and US
operations, we endeavour to ensure National Grid operates in 
a responsible manner.
In the US, National Grid and its employees donated nearly 
$2.2 million (£1.2 million) to United Way, a national network 
of organisations that works to create lasting positive changes 
in people’s lives and their communities. In addition to financial
support, many employees volunteered their time and participated
in the United Way’s ‘Annual Day Of Caring’, where they painted,
cleaned, gardened and built playgrounds in local communities. 
I am proud of our continued leadership of the ‘Young Offender
Programme’ in the UK, and that there are now 80 companies
involved alongside us. The programme has continued to develop
this year, providing stable employment opportunities to offenders.
This contributes to a significant reduction in the national 
re-offending rate from over 70% to about 7% for offenders
participating in the National Grid programme. Collectively, we 
aim to have placed 1,000 young people into training and jobs,
through the programme, by the end of this calendar year. 
Outlook
The Board remains confident that National Grid is well positioned
to continue to generate value for its shareholders. We are
entering a period of significant investment and the development
of our new operating model should allow us successfully to take
on this challenge. We will continue to focus on safety, efficiency
of our operations and providing a reliable service to our
customers, while acting responsibly in everything we do. 
Sir John Parker
Chairman
†
excludes the impact of exceptional items and remeasurements
