 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
4
21273-04  04/04/2012 Proof 17
Introduction
We have enjoyed a highly successful year of trading driven 
by continuous improvements in our offering, and renewed 
focus on our core strengths, resulting in a 26% increase in 
Group revenue to US$331 million (2010: US$262 million).
2011 was about going back to basics and I have reiterated  
in this statement our refocused strategy.
From a financial perspective we delivered a record 
performance: EBITDA
*
 reached US$56 million (2010:  
US$29 million) with our EBITDA
*
 margin increasing to 
16.8% (2010: 10.9%). As at 31 December 2011 the Group had 
US$82 million of cash and cash equivalents of which US$45 
million represented liabilities to customers. On 23 February 
2012 the Group prepaid £20 million of the Wink deferred 
consideration to reduce interest costs. This resulted in a 
balance of £3.8 million payable on 21 May 2012.
As online gaming evolves, 888 continues to innovate and 
change with it. By providing players of all ability with 
a compelling offering, and promoting the offering with 
targeted marketing campaigns, we have grown our active 
B2C casino and poker customer numbers to almost half 
a million — an increase of 69% since Q4 2010. Further 
improvements are in the pipeline, and potential significant 
regulatory opportunities, leaving us very well positioned for 
the future.
Strategy
As I set out in our interim results last August, following a 
review of the business we reaffirmed our commitment to 
maximising revenues and taking the company forward.  
This strategy is made up of a number of key strands.
First, we will concentrate on our core product groups,  
which are Casino, Poker, Bingo, and to a lesser extent Sport, 
where we depend upon partners to operate a sportsbook 
in a highly competitive market. These products will be 
delivered via our B2C offering and through our Dragonfish 
to B2B clients.
Second, we will continue to focus our attention on our B2C 
customers, ensuring we deliver a ‘best in class’ product, 
excellence in customer service, and a real value-for-money 
proposition. Our back-office is a key asset of the Company 
and truly world class, ensuring maximum returns on 
investment from our marketing and customer recruitment 
campaigns, monitoring and improving lifetime value of 
our customers whilst fulfilling high standards of social and 
corporate responsibility. Moreover this is done using world 
class fraud detection, player monitoring and excellent CRM 
practices. We will continue to develop this key asset as it is 
a true competitive advantage that benefits both customers 
and clients alike.
Third, we have appraised our Dragonfish B2B contracts and 
where they were sub optimal, renegotiated or terminated 
them. We will continue to develop a pipeline of new 
opportunities which will be fewer but have a greater positive 
impact on our revenues and profit.
Fourthly, we will work to improve margins, by maximising 
operational efficiencies and driving volume and where 
necessary cutting costs. There was some impact on the 2011 
results but we have yet to see the full benefit of savings 
made to head count and other operational efficiencies. It is 
our short-term goal to return to levels of margin achieved in 
2009, and then to further improve on these.
Chief Executive's Review 
 
*  Excluding share benefit charges of US$2.4 million (2010:  
US$2.3 million), goodwill write off US$20.7 million (2010: nil) 
and restructuring costs of US$4.9 million (2010: US$2.2 million). www.888holdingsplc.com
5
21273-04  04/04/2012 Proof 17
Finally, it is a clear strategic imperative that we concentrate 
on locally regulated markets. We view these markets in three 
specific categories which have individual characteristics:
● ● Implementational — For example, in Italy and France, 
where regulation has been introduced and we have 
already commenced trading.
● ● Formational — As in Spain where governments have 
announced regulation and are working towards a 
framework. Here we will decide on a trading strategy, 
start dialogue with local partners either for B2C or B2B 
tie- ups, and lobby governments in an attempt to assist 
in shaping the framework.
● ● Developmental — Where there is a strong indication 
that at some time in the near future, the market will 
open. Here we talk to local enterprise with a view to 
forming partnerships with whom we can jointly explore 
opportunities and attempt to influence the regulatory 
framework; currently we are focusing primarily on 
the USA.
We have already delivered against and realised the benefit 
of this renewed focus. Our focus on driving key product 
areas has significantly increased player sign-ups leading 
to significant growth in volumes. We will continue to focus 
on maximizing the potential of our existing core offering 
augmented with innovations in both product and customer 
interaction and service.
B2C
The B2C offering remains our core area, and the bedrock of 
the success of the business. Performance across the offering 
has been excellent in 2011, with revenue up 28% to US$284 
million (2010: US$222 million), as a result of our focused 
investment in order to provide the best possible customer 
experience, and improved and targeted marketing. We have 
pursued a volume-led strategy, aimed at attracting a large 
number of players through providing an entertaining and 
accessible platform on which customers enjoy playing. The 
strategy has lead to Customer lifetime value preserved over 
time with retention programmes performing well, so that 
churn rate is lower than it has been in the past.
2011 was a phenomenal year for 888’s poker business with 
revenue increasing 58% to US$61 million (2010: US$38 
million). Our Poker 6 platform has transformed our poker 
network and we have risen from 13th to 4th in the global 
liquidity rankings in little over 12 months. In Q4 alone the 
number of active poker customers increased by 58%.
The Poker 6 network is carefully managed. We aim to attract 
players in to enjoy the game which has a more recreational 
feel with players placing smaller initial stakes. We have 
worked hard over the last year on the software suite which 
is dedicated to targeted marketing — almost targeting 
players individually with specific incentives and promotions, 
and we are now reaping the benefits of that investment.
In Casino this ‘smart marketing’ also worked for us, with 
revenues up 27% to US$148 million (2010: US$117 million). 
The success of Casino has been driven both by the highly 
successful marketing campaigns and significant back-
office improvements. Our efforts were recognised with 888 
winning Best Online Casino of the Year at the ICE Totally 
Gaming Awards. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
6
21273-04  04/04/2012 Proof 17
As I said above a key focus for us is newly regulated 
markets. Our fully localised Casino helps penetration into 
new markets. We launched into the Italian market in July, 
with more than 30 games, and with the introduction of the 
first live casino in Italy — Live Dealer on 888. Initial trading 
has been encouraging and we have already achieved more 
than 5% market share.
We have just launched a new Casino offering, a state-of-
the-art platform similar to Poker 6, with a number of new 
features, and we will continue to invest in functionality, 
customisation and localisation of features such as payment 
methods.
Bingo is becoming a mature market but we continue to 
hold our own. We added 15 new Instant Games on our 
Bingo platform including a number of global brands. We 
will continue to invest in new features such as progressive 
jackpots, new games and Mini Games to keep the platform 
refreshed and relevant.
888sport, while relatively small, is an important part of the 
customer offering, particularly around significant sporting 
events which in 2012 will be dominated by the London 
Olympics and football’s Euro 2012.
Dragonfish
This year we undertook a widespread appraisal of the 
Dragonfish business — reviewing existing contracts and 
evaluating the right deals to pursue. Revenue was up 16% 
at US$47 million (2010: US$40 million). As a result we 
also have a more profitable B2B business by successfully 
renegotiating and terminating suboptimal contracts.
The most significant step this year was the Nevada Gaming 
Control Board and the Nevada Gaming Commission 
voting unanimously to grant a finding of suitability of 
the commercial agreement between Caesars Interactive 
Entertainment and Dragonfish. This finding, which was 
the result of a rigorous and lengthy process of scrutiny, 
underlines the integrity, sophistication and professionalism 
that the Company maintains as its core tenets of its 
business model.
After the period ended we announced an extension of our 
agreement with Caesars into the US — the first strand of 
our US strategy. Dragonfish is now in a very strong position 
to explore the potential of the US market. We have a strong 
platform to roll out our cutting edge, turnkey solution to 
other potential partners as the market opens.
People
It’s not just the offering that makes 888 stand out, it is our 
people. I am a true believer in teamwork and we have a 
fantastic team of people working at 888. There is no doubt 
we have some of the most gifted technological staff in 
the industry. I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
everyone for their hard work this year. The more I get to 
know the employees, the more impressed I am with their 
enthusiasm and commitment to the business. It is their 
drive, innovation and effectiveness that has helped deliver 
such a successful year.
Regulation
Regulation of online gaming continued to present both 
opportunities and challenges to the Group during 2011, 
and this is likely to be the case during 2012. A growing 
number of jurisdictions (most notably in Europe) have 
adopted legislation regulating the Group’s business, often 
in widely divergent manners. While regulation in various 
jurisdictions has the effect of providing legal certainty, 
contributing to stability and bolstering the long-term 
value of the Group’s various markets, it is also inevitably 
accompanied by the burden of local taxation and costly 
compliance requirements. The Group continues to remain 
actively engaged in regulatory developments worldwide and 
continues to seek opportunities for growth presented by 
regulation while facing the accompanying challenges.
Chief Executive's Review 
  www.888holdingsplc.com
7
21273-04  04/04/2012 Proof 17
Two notable regulatory developments that are likely to 
have a significant impact on the Group during 2012 are the 
possible reform of the UK online gaming regime (with the 
imposition of UK gaming duty on foreign operators) and the 
emergence of a US online poker market (initially in Nevada, 
where the Group continues to pioneer the developing online 
market). 888 is investing effort to averting or minimise the 
potentially adverse impact of a UK reform, taking all steps to 
maximise the benefit of the potential for growth presented 
by a regulated US online poker market.
Responsible Gaming
As a global leader in online gaming entertainment, 888 is 
committed to a pro-active policy of corporate and social 
responsibility. Conducting our business responsibly is 
fundamental to our future success and the sustainability 
of our business. Our values place the community and 
the customer at the centre of our endeavours. We are 
constantly exploring new and innovative ways to create 
a caring, responsible gaming environment and to ensure 
under age, addictive or other inappropriate customers 
are unable to access our gaming sites. We work closely 
with organisations such as GamCare and Gambling 
Therapy to enhance the training of our customers support 
representatives.
Current Trading and Outlook
2011 marked a new chapter in 888’s history. We have 
realigned the business to focus on its core strengths under 
a team that is steeped in online gaming. We are more than 
ready to take advantage of liberalisation in the industry and 
we are well positioned to achieve first mover advantage.  
We have a unique position in the US to allow the launch of a 
real money offering promptly in either federal or state based 
once regulation is finalized by gaming authorities.  
Our markets are changing and evolving and we are moving fast 
to ensure we continue to innovate and expand our horizons.
While market liberalisation offers new growth opportunities 
for regulated businesses such as ours it also means 
investment in marketing to position the brand and acquire 
customers. We will continue to invest in regulated markets 
to secure our future for the long term.
We continue to exceed our customers’ expectations both 
in terms of offering and service. We will continue to pursue 
our strategy of focusing on recreational players and as well 
as major product enhancements during the year, such as 
the launch of our new Casino offering, we will focus on the 
continuous improvement of the customer experience at 
every point.
Brian Mattingley
*
Chief Executive
* Brian Mattingley was appointed CEO on 27 March 2012.
