 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
2
21273-04  04/04/2012 Proof 17
Chairman’s Statement 
 
2011 has been a year of significant change, both for 888 as 
a business and in the ever-shifting landscape in which we 
operate. Changes made to the focus of the business and 
ongoing improvements to our market-leading offering, 
have helped to increase player numbers, build revenues and 
produce this excellent set of results. European regulation 
continued apace and there are a number of exciting 
initiatives in the United States seeking to regulate internet 
poker at both a federal and a state level. Which route will 
be undertaken and exactly when this will happen remains 
unclear, but the wheels are in motion and 888 is positioned 
to take advantage of any and all outcomes.
There were a number of changes to the Board and the 
senior management team in the period under review.  
Gigi Levy stepped down as CEO in April and I would like 
to thank Gigi for the contribution he made to the business 
during his tenure. The Board invited Brian Mattingley, our 
Deputy Chairman, to step into a more hands-on role within 
the business to help provide more focus on key areas of 
performance and deliver on our immediate objectives, 
following the outstanding achievements of the Group and 
his excellent performance during this period. I am delighted 
that Brian Mattingley has, in March 2012, been appointed 
as our full time Chief Executive Officer. I look forward to 
continuing to work closely with him in his new role.
It was also appropriate to undertake a review of the 
business requirements in terms of personnel and restructure 
the senior management team. As part of that restructuring, 
we appointed Itai Frieberger as Chief Operating Officer.  
Itai has a wealth of experience in the online world and 
has spent the last seven years with 888 in various senior 
management roles covering the full spectrum of disciplines 
within our Company.
After the macroeconomic shocks of the previous financial 
year and the business challenges that accompanied them, 
the operating environment for 888 improved during 2011. 
There were also a number of notable strategic achievements 
which we believe will underpin our growth in the coming 
years: the finding of suitability by the Nevada Gaming 
Control Board and the Nevada Gaming Commission 
in respect of our relationship with Caesars Interactive 
Entertainment (Caesars), the significant upgrade to our 
back office systems and the expansion of our agreement 
with Caesars to enter the US market when regulation is 
enacted. In addition the launch of Poker 6 which won 
industry accolades fuelled tremendous growth in our  
poker business.
We have refocused the business and, in doing so, created a 
strong and sustainable base for long-term growth.  
By continuing our customer-centric approach and offering 
innovative products and services that are both exciting and 
relevant, we expect to continue to be successful and deliver 
benefit to you, our shareholders.
Financial Results
Group revenue increased significantly by 26% to US$331 
million (2010: US$262 million) driven in the main by the B2C 
performance of casino and our stand out poker offering, 
Poker 6. EBITDA* was US$56 million (2010: US$29 million). 
As at 31 December 2011 the Group had US$82 million of cash 
and cash equivalents of which US$45 million represented 
liabilities to customers. In February 2012 the Group prepaid 
£20 million of the Wink deferred consideration to reduce 
interest costs. This resulted in a balance of £3.8 million 
payable on 21 May 2012.
We will continue to review the dividend policy with a view 
to reinstating payment of dividends as appropriate.
B2C
As part of our strategic refocus we have concentrated on 
our core product groups of Casino, Poker and Bingo.  
This includes focusing our attention on our B2C customers, 
ensuring we deliver a ‘best in class’ product, excellence in 
customer service, and a true value-for-money proposition. 
This compelling offering, supported by highly successful 
targeted marketing campaigns, has resulted in a strong 
trading performance across our B2C division.
*  Excluding share benefit charges of US$2.4 million (2010:  
US$2.3 million), goodwill write off US$20.7 million (2010: nil) 
and restructuring costs of US$4.9 million (2010: US$2.2 million). www.888holdingsplc.com
3
21273-04  04/04/2012 Proof 17
Poker has had an exceptional year, and since the launch of 
our award-winning Poker 6 platform we have significantly 
outperformed the industry. New player recruitment in Poker 
has increased by 77% compared to last year and we now rank 
4th in the global liquidity rankings.
Casino has also enjoyed a strong performance and this year 
we have made a significant investment in our back office 
systems. In July we launched into the newly regulated Italian 
market and have already gained more than 5% market share. 
We also developed an exciting new casino product, casino 
50, which was launched in February 2012.
Whilst the bingo market is maturing we continue to focus 
on our core strengths of product innovation and promotion 
initiatives.
Dragonfish
This year has seen a change of approach as we have 
worked on fewer deals concentrating on those which are 
substantially revenue and profit enhancing.
In March 2011 we became the first ever foreign-based 
internet gaming operator to come before the Nevada 
Gaming Control Board and the Nevada Gaming Commission 
when, following a year long process and public hearings, 
they approved the suitability of our commercial relationship 
with Caesars. This enabled us to continue working with 
Caesars, one of America’s pre-eminent gaming groups, in 
the UK. Since the year end we have announced an extension 
of the Caesars agreement to cover the US. This is the first 
strand of our US online strategy and gives us a strong 
platform to develop the US and sign with further potential 
partners. We are amongst the first applicants for the new 
class of licence in Nevada as an internet gaming service 
provider.
In July 2011, the Italian regulated market opened for Casino 
following which we launched our own casino offering and 
the Dragonfish-powered casinos of several customers in 
that market.
Dragonfish continued to receive industry accolades and won 
two of the most prestigious awards at the eGaming Review 
B2B Awards: Poker software of the year and Bingo supplier 
of the year.
Board
At the year end one of our Independent Non-Executive 
Directors, Michael Constantine, retired from the Board.  
I would like to express on behalf of the Board and all at  
the Company our appreciation of Michael’s contribution  
to 888 for over five years. We are actively seeking new  
Non-Executive Directors with the experience and skill-set  
to help the Group continue its next phase of growth.
Outlook
2012 is set to be a year of major opportunity for 888, with 
the opening of several newly regulated markets across 
Europe and the US potential. The Group intends to invest in 
these markets in order to establish and build market share 
and, whilst the impacts of regulatory changes are difficult 
to predict, we believe that we have now created a great 
platform for the future and are confident about the Group’s 
full year prospects.
Richard Kilsby
Chairman
