 Chief Executive’s Report
Introduction
2011 proved to be a challenging year for the
automotive repair sector and the number of
people claiming on their insurance, especially for
smaller repairs, continued to decline. Nationwide
is not immune to this industry-wide trend and
our profitability was affected, especially in the
second half of the year although it was creditable
to maintain overall sales at £173 million. 
Management responded decisively to the trading
conditions in order to ensure Nationwide’s
capacity matched current demand more closely
and we implemented a cost reduction
programme in the second half to protect and
improve profitability going forward. This will
generate annualised cost savings of approximately
£1.9 million per annum, although the 
non-recurring costs incurred in 2011 impacted 
results for the year.
Our strategy to grow our overall market share
by entering the fleet and retail markets is
proving a successful and key driver for future
growth. By leveraging our core competencies,
we have achieved further progress in these
sectors during the year. The strong growth in
both fleet and retail sales helped to offset the
weakening insurance volumes and we continue
to see significant and encouraging expansion
opportunities. We also believe that the current
challenging market will create opportunities to
grow our presence in our traditional insurance-
funded market and have launched a number 
of sales initiatives in order to further increase
market share. After the year end, in February
2012, we were pleased to be appointed by
Hastings Direct as sole provider for all vehicle
repairs. This nearly doubles the size of
Nationwide’s contract with Hastings Direct.  
As insurers seek to enhance their service
standards, secure quality capacity and use
information technology to improve their
efficiency, we remain well-placed to develop
both our existing and new relationships.
Managing Cash and Dividends
At 31 December 2011, Nationwide’s net cash
balances stood at £8.0 million (31 December
2010: £7.5 million). Credit control and cash
management remain a key focus for the Group
and this result demonstrates our continued
success in this area. It is particularly pleasing in
view of both the additional investment in our
mobile capacity and resource to support our fleet
and retail expansion, and the one-off costs incurred
during our cost reduction programme. (Details
of our investment and cost reduction programme
are given in the operational review below).
We are pleased to recommend an increased
final dividend of 3.6 pence per share, taking the
total dividend for the year to 5.5 pence (2010:
5.3 pence per share).
Operations Review
The core insurance-funded market saw repair
volumes decline during the year as a whole. 
In the first half, Nationwide maintained some
volume growth, against the industry trend, but
volumes decreased markedly in the second half,
influenced by a number of factors including the
unusually mild and dry weather conditions. Not
surprisingly, the current economic climate has
resulted in customers deferring the repair of
light, more cosmetic damage and the proportion
of larger, lower margin repairs increased. This
resulted in a lower overall gross margin for the
year at 45.6% down from 47.2% in 2010.
In November 2011 we announced a cost
reduction programme which included the
closure of eight under-utilised and, therefore,
non-core sites, with the transfer of volumes to
other sites. We largely completed the programme
by the year end, incurring a total of £8.1 million
one-off costs, whilst maintaining the overall
capacity of our network. This will deliver cost
savings of £1.9 million on an annualised basis.
We have continued to focus on improving 
“Our strategy to
grow our overall
market share by
entering the fleet
and retail markets
is proving
successful”
Chief Executive’s Report
4
Nationwide Accident Repair Services plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Michael Wilmshurst
Chief Executive our operational efficiency. Key areas include
enhancing parts margins, conversion ratios,
speed of repair, customer satisfaction and, 
of course, securing additional sales from both 
new and existing customers.
As the UK’s largest accident repair group our
purchasing of parts is significant and economies
of scale are an important element of our
competitive advantage. During 2011, we further
improved our parts margin (by almost 1%), a
useful contribution in a challenging market.
Conversion rates, i.e. the number of
opportunities that we convert into repairs,
increased overall from 84.4% in 2010 to 86.7%
in 2011 and we are encouraged by the
increasing effectiveness of our ‘up stream’
Network Services call centres in securing 
and converting claims. This integrated offer,
comprising call centres and repair capability
(fixed site and mobile), is proving attractive 
to both insurers and the fleet market and
continues to support growth. The speed at
which we repair vehicles is important to the
majority of markets we service and offers us
operational and commercial benefits. In 2010
the average “full cycle” period (from the point
of claim to the point of repair completion) was
23.57 days. By balancing capacity with demand
through our call centres and increasingly
sophisticated IT platform, the continued 
roll-out of our mobile repair service (which is 
a particularly rapid solution) and working with
our insurance customers to streamline processes,
we have reduced this to 20.33 days in 2011.
Measuring our “key to key” average (which is
the average time taken to complete a repair,
from the day we receive a vehicle to the day 
it is returned to a customer), we have reduced
the average to 11.68 days from 12.93 days in
2010.  There are opportunities to further
improve both the “full cycle” and “key to
key” averages, particularly for those repairs
deployed centrally through our Network
Services division.
Customer satisfaction levels across the
business saw an increase in 2011 to 85.9%
(2010: 85.3%), as measured by independent
telephone surveys of approximately 17,000 of
our customers. The same customers also rated
the “quality of repair” at 91%, similar to 2010.
We also scored strongly in insurers’ own
benchmarks.
Our enhanced offer includes the mobile repair
service, now integrated within our fixed site
repair network. Sales have increased by 57% to
£7.54 million, demonstrating the attractiveness
of this service as part of our ‘one stop shop’
offer.  Our dedicated glass repair offering,
Motorglass, performed very strongly with sales
of £4.37 million, an increase of 71% on 2010,
when it launched. The increased mobile capacity
enables the Group to manage its workflows
more efficiently and provides customers with a
quick and convenient service. Both our Mobile
and Motorglass operations are now making a
good contribution to Group performance and
we remain confident of further growth
opportunities.  
The fleet and retail markets are a natural
extension to our core insurance business and
the mobile offering is highly attractive to all
three target segments. We achieved excellent
growth in both fleet and retail sales during 
the year.
Our fleet sales increased by 25% to £24.5
million and we now have established a presence
in the rental vehicle, governmental and private
commercial sectors.  We also secured a number
of new fleet customers and should see the full
benefit of these relationships coming through
in 2012 and beyond. As a result of our success
in this area a number of insurance customers,
including AXA and Zurich, have engaged with us
to work on this important sector of 
the market.
Direct retail sales have improved by 55% over
last year to £9.4 million as we continue to
strengthen our offer and sales process. These
sales typically involve undertaking additional
repairs for private individuals while their vehicles
are being repaired under an insurance claim
and are targeted to provide convenience, quality
and value for money. Nationwide now has a
proven track record of successfully integrating
additional automotive support services within
our offer. This process continues and in 2011
we opened our third Fast Fit+ branch in
Redruth, Cornwall, offering MOTs and other
vehicle services such as the supply and fitting
of exhausts and tyres.
Outlook
Nationwide has the foundations in place on
which to build, both operationally and financially.
Although the downturn in insurance repair
volumes is not expected to reverse in the short
term, management has taken the necessary
actions to align our bodyshop network with
demand, whilst maintaining capacity and
investing in growth areas such as fleet and retail.
The Group is increasingly well positioned 
to offer existing and potential customers an
integrated automotive support service, has 
a strong balance sheet, with net cash and no
borrowings, and good cash conversion. We
remain confident that medium- and long-term
prospects for Nationwide to capture market
share in its three target markets, insurance,
fleet and retail, are positive.  
Michael Wilmshurst
Chief Executive
30 March 2012
Chief Executive’s Report 
5
Nationwide Accident Repair Services plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
