 03 Nationwide Accident Repair Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Introduction
2006 was a good year for Nationwide with the 
successful admission to trading on AiM in July, 
the acquisition of Aquilo Motor Services in 
December 2006, an increase in our underlying profit 
and the development of our longer term objectives.
Accident Repair Market
The accident repair market in which we operate 
continues to consolidate. This consolidation is 
mainly driven by three factors:

  Insurance companies are finding the cost 
and burden of dealing with hundreds of 
privately owned companies, on differing IT 
platforms and working to differing standards 
and systems, increasingly onerous.

  The economies of scale and the use of 
integrated IT systems are enabling groups 
to operate more effectively and requiring 
less direct management by insurers on a 
case by case basis.

  Advances in vehicle technology and the need to 
repair vehicles in an environmentally responsible 
manner necessitate continued financial 
investment. A significant number of existing 
repairers operating in the sector are not in 
a position to make the required investment.
Our core business is the repair of damaged vehicles 
at our bodyshops throughout the UK. We aim to 
continue to acquire sites as opportunities arise 
and have recently acquired businesses in Llandudno 
(January 2007) and Lincoln (March 2007). 
We also work continuously on opportunities to 
further improve and grow our existing operations. 
Our management information, supported by 
a robust IT platform, enables us to identify and 
implement operational improvement quicker than 
some of our competitors and we continue to 
leverage this advantage.
Network Services
Our Network Services division is a support 
operation that enables fleets and insurers to opt 
for a single point of contact or ‘one stop shop’, 
should they wish to do so. We continue to grow 
in this area and our acquisition of Aquilo Motor 
Services in December 2006 has proved a valuable 
addition to the Group. Based in Northwich, Cheshire 
Aquilo operates a 24 hour contact centre offering 
a comprehensive motor claims management service 
including emergency and roadside assistance 
and engineering services. This acquisition has 
a number of strategic objectives including:

  Increasing our capacity and expertise in the 
call centre handling of drivers involved in an 
accident and given Network Services’ details 
as the first point of contact. This process is 
known in the industry as ‘FNOL’ or first 
notification of loss.

  Enabling us to increase our IT platform’s 
scope (in particular with regard to claims 
handling) making it easier for insurance 
companies and fleet customers to work with us.

  Enabling us, where appropriate, to direct 
work captured by this process into our 
own repair centres thereby increasing 
their efficiency.
Mobile Solutions
Launched in 2005, our Mobile Solutions division, 
a vehicle based service that offers specialist 
glass work, air conditioning and electronic 
diagnostic services, continues to grow.
Summary
In summary, the bodyshop market continues to 
consolidate, our financial performance is in line 
with expectations and our balance sheet is strong. 
We aim to continue to expand our bodyshop 
capacity and improve our efficiency and our 
support division is growing. 
Michael Wilmshurst
Chief Executive, 14 March 2007
 “ ...the bodyshop 
market continues 
to consolidate.”
1. Ayr bodyshop. 2. Technician, Oxford bodyshop. 3. Luton bodyshop. 4. Falkirk bodyshop.
Chief Executive’s Report
1 2
3
4
_1_NAR_ar06_front.indd   4 12/04/2007   09:27:50
