 04 Nationwide Accident Repair Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Chief Executive’s Report
Michael Wilmshurst
“ We remain confident 
of our trading prospects 
as we continue to 
execute our twin track 
strategy of organic and 
acquisitive expansion.”
Introduction
2007 was a record year for our Group and 
our ability to continue to improve our financial 
performance, at a time of customer and market 
change, is indicative of the strength of our 
business offer, model and team.
Customers
In 2007 we took the difficult, but strategic decision 
to decline a substantial contract on the basis of 
the terms offered. We believed that we would be 
able to replace this work (in excess of £20m) with 
other customers. A key part of our decision was 
driven by our underlying business approach, 
which is to align ourselves with customers whose 
business models reflect our strategy of increasing 
repair efficiency. We do this by directing work 
to the most suitable site, utilising our excellent 
IT platform to develop additional efficiencies and 
leveraging our own economies of scale. 
I am pleased to report that over the remainder 
of the year we more than replaced the lost work. 
This was achieved through a mix of new contract 
wins and volume extensions with existing customers. 
The new wins we secured were with Hastings 
Direct and Zenith and we agreed significant 
additional volumes with Norwich Union, AXA and 
Zurich. These agreements will help to underpin 
the Group’s growth in 2008 as they are 
fully implemented.
In expanding our business our strategy has been, 
and continues to be, to develop a broad base of 
customers. While typically half of our business is 
transacted with our top five insurance customers, 
these insurers change over time, reflecting market 
conditions. It is, therefore, important to us to 
maintain contact and foster relationships across 
the insurance industry as a whole and to adapt 
to the changing balance of work we carry out 
for customers in a way which suits both parties. 
Over the past few years, by adopting this ‘broad 
church’ approach and by investing time to 
understand our customers’ future strategies, we 
have successfully managed both the growth of 
contracts and a number of customer transitions. 
We are also applying this longer term account 
relationship methodology to customers outside 
our current core motor insurer customer base, 
namely fleet, rental operators and motor 
manufacturers and we currently have 23 customers 
operating in these fields. A new initiative, begun 
during 2007, was the launch of a retail sales 
operation. From a standing start this has generated 
sales of £1.84m in its first year and we will look 
to grow retail sales further in 2008.
Overall, the market consolidation highlighted 
in last year’s report continues, with a considerable 
number of insurance companies reducing the 
number of repairers to which they send work. 
With our skilled team, national coverage and 
sophisticated IT package, we believe that we 
are well positioned to benefit from 
ongoing consolidation.
People
Nationwide employs over 2,200 skilled and 
committed people, including 130 apprentices. 
In recent years, we have developed the Nationwide 
Academy, which provides structured training 
programmes designed to assist our team to hone 
their existing skills and develop new areas 
of expertise. The market in which we operate 
is becoming increasingly sophisticated and 
in 2008 it is our intention, with Government 
assistance, to extend the areas covered by 
the programme and to increase the number of 
staff enjoying the benefits that the Academy 
offers, including apprenticeships and National 
Vocational Qualifications. Our objective is to develop 
the most effective team in the sector and become 
1 Luton bodyshop  
2 NCRC Matlock  
3 NCRC Wirral
1
2 3  05 Nationwide Accident Repair Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Chief Executive’s Report continued
the industry employer of choice. We have made 
good progress in 2007 and aim to improve 
further this year.
Operations
In 2007 we also took the opportunity to review 
the sites that we operate and the areas in which 
they are located. In a multi‑site business such 
as ours, such reviews are a normal part of our 
business, as sites approach the end of their leases 
or require additional capital investment. As a result 
of this review, we closed or disposed of five sites 
and acquired four, in Llandudno, Lincoln, Matlock 
and Hull. Since the year end, we have also acquired 
sites in Gravesend and Scunthorpe. To support 
our customers’ needs going forward, we are 
increasing our repair capacity and plan to 
expand in three ways:
  by increasing the throughput within 
our existing sites, with the employment of 
additional staff, introduction of shifts and 
extending working hours;
  by acquiring additional sites in geographical 
areas not served by our existing network or 
where our existing sites are at capacity; and
  by enlisting and managing a secondary network 
of Nationwide approved repairers who carry 
out work on our behalf. Our Network Services 
division already successfully operates 
this system.
Network Services
Our Network Services division offers a comprehensive 
Accident Management Service including:
  first contact (known as ‘first notification 
of loss’ or ‘FNOL’ in the industry);
 claims handling;
 replacement vehicles;
  deployment into our own or other repair 
networks;
 uninsured loss recovery;
 a glass replacement service; 
  electronic diagnostic and air conditioning 
services; and
 on site repair services for minor damage. 
In providing this service, we enjoy two key 
competitive advantages:
  the majority of the work is carried out within 
our own network, facilitating communication, 
efficient deployment and the ability 
to prioritise work; and
  Network Services and Nationwide Crash Repair 
Centres operate on a sophisticated and fully 
integrated in‑house IT platform. This system 
allows us to monitor electronically and manage 
the flow of work through our business far 
more efficiently than the traditional manually 
operated processes.
Thanks to these advantages, the division continues 
to demonstrate encouraging growth. This year 
we will invest in the ongoing development of our 
IT platform in the areas of ‘first contact’ and 
claims handling, further enhancing the services 
we offer our customers and the efficiency with 
which we manage repairs.
Outlook
We have made encouraging progress during 
the year, improving the Group’s profitability for 
the fifth consecutive year. Most significantly, we 
have secured significant volumes of additional 
work from our existing customers and added 
new contracts. The benefits of these volume 
improvements will be seen in 2008 as these 
agreements are fully implemented.
In the current financial year we are continuing 
to expand and to develop and train our team in 
order to maintain our competitive advantage. We 
are also increasing our capacity to repair vehicles, 
leveraging efficiencies at our existing sites and 
looking for additional sites where demand makes 
this appropriate. In addition, we continue to 
grow our Network Services division, offering 
insurers and fleet operators a single point 
of contact and enabling us to capture work 
more effectively. 
Our business is by nature driven by unplanned 
events or accidents and as such is ‘non‑cyclical’. 
This gives us a firm foundation on which we can 
capitalise, but equally we also look to ensure that 
we continue to improve operational efficiency 
and that we are well placed to take advantage 
of market opportunities.
Looking ahead, we remain confident of our trading 
prospects as we continue to execute our twin 
track strategy of organic and acquisitive expansion.
Michael Wilmshurst
Chief Executive
25 March 2008
1 Falkirk bodyshop 2 NCRC Gateshead
1 2 
