 4
Introduction
I am pleased to report that 2008 was another
record year for the Group, despite the increasing
economic turbulence as the year progressed. The
results were affected by the need to make a bad
debt provision of £750,000 in relation to a
customer which went into administration in 
March 2009. This provision has been disclosed 
as a non-recurring item.
During the twelve months, we benefited from 
the contract wins and extensions secured in 
2007 and underlying revenue and profits (before
non-recurring items) rose by 18% and 14%
respectively. In line with our commitment to a
progressive dividend policy, the proposed final
dividend represents an increase of 11% in the
total dividend for the year.  
Nationwide’s robust performance demonstrates
the inherent strengths of the business model, in
particular its resistance to cyclical influences, its
good cash generation, strong balance sheet, and
the scale of its operations, which enables us to
extract cost efficiencies.
Operations
Our national network of bodyshops constantly
evolves as we identify and acquire new locations
and withdraw from others, either at the end of
their lease or because they require additional
capital expenditure which would not deliver a
sufficiently commercial return. During 2008 
we acquired six new sites in total and closed 
one. Three sites were acquired in the first half of
the year, at Scunthorpe, Gravesend and Redruth.
Sites at Bristol, Kettering and Perth were added in
the second half of the year. New sites invariably
take a period of time to integrate within the
Nationwide model before making contributions
which mirror those from our more established
sites. As expected, the six new sites reflected 
this and generated a combined loss of £230,000
for the period as they went through the
integration process. We expect them to deliver
enhanced returns over 2009. All of these
acquisitions were designed to increase our
capacity in areas not served by our existing 
network and where we have identified and agreed
sufficient customer demand.
We continued to invest in our fully integrated 
in-house IT platform, ‘Voyager’. This system gives
us considerable market advantage, allowing us 
to offer claims handling and vehicle repair
management without the need for manual data
transfer and double entry inputs. As well as
improving our own efficiencies, the platform also
provides additional benefits. Accessible via the web,
it allows customers to track their vehicle repairs at a
time and location of their choosing, without the
need to call our sites. Information on the system is
automatically updated throughout the repair
process and the system is a good example of how
we use our scale and investment to develop
industry leading standards and efficiencies.
If our continued investment in sites, equipment
and IT is key to our continuing growth, it is our
skilled and committed team, which includes 116
apprentices, that enables us to deliver success. I
would like to extend my thanks to all of them.
Network Services
Network Services, our support division, offers 
the following:-
•
first contact (known as ‘first notification of loss’
or ‘FNOL’ in the industry);
•
claims handling;
•
replacement vehicles; 
•
deployment into our own or other networks;
•
uninsured loss recovery; and 
•
on site repair services for minor damage.
The division continues to grow and is unique in
the industry, offering accident management
services and also being able to transfer vehicles for
repair into our own wholly owned network of
bodyshops. This year we will invest in the further
growth of our ‘Mobile Restore’ and ‘Mobile
Solutions’ businesses which offer glass
replacement, electronic diagnostics and air
conditioning recharge services as well as off-site
repair for minor damage.
“...another record
year for our 
Group despite the
increasing economic
turbulence”
Chief Executive’s Report
Nationwide Accident Repair Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5
Customers
Our strategy of aligning ourselves with our
customers’ objectives continues to deliver benefit.
Whilst many of our customers share similar aims,
including value for money, customer service and
process efficiency, their preferred method of
achieving these remains individual. The flexibility
of our business model allows us to tailor our
approach accordingly and our service offering
ranges from vehicle repairs at specific sites to
comprehensive claims handling. This unique
capability gives us considerable market advantage
and allows us to develop business relationships
with insurance companies, large corporate fleets
and brokers, as well as motor manufacturers and
other associated companies.  
In 2007 we launched a trial retail offering and,
having generated sales of £1.84 million in its first
year, income from this initiative over 2008 has
grown by 80% to £3.31 million. Our retail offering
is based both on convenience and value as we
provide private individuals with additional services,
normally while their vehicle is with us for an
insurance-related repair. We are currently
developing two trial sites at Leicester and Kettering
with an enhanced offering which we are
provisionally positioning as “Fast Fit +”. Adjoining
our existing bodyshop repair facilities, these sites
share infrastructure and capital investment, whilst
offering drive-in facilities for traditional “fast fit”
offers, including MOT and some servicing needs.
In the current economic climate, we have based 
our financial planning on conservative assumptions.
We believe that there is a market for cost
effective, basic servicing from well equipped
trustworthy companies. 
We put considerable emphasis on the level of
service we offer our customers and measure their
satisfaction at every site on a monthly basis. I am
pleased to report that customer satisfaction for
2008 for the Group as a whole was 85% and 
our objective is to increase this in 2009.
Outlook
We continued to grow in 2008 for the sixth year
in succession.  
The current economic environment is clearly
difficult. The nature of our work makes our
business model more resistant to cyclical variances
than many, but some claims, such as light
cosmetic vehicle damage can be deferred, whilst
more significant damage requires immediate
rectification. It is this second category of work 
which offers us protection from the extremes of
the economic cycle. We have built a market-
Nationwide Accident Repair Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Chief Executive’s Report continued
leading position which will allow us to use our 
scale to maximise cost efficiencies and with no 
bank debt and a profitable robust business, we 
believe that we are well positioned to weather
the current difficult economic environment and
to continue to execute our twin track strategy
of organic and acquisitive expansion.
Michael Wilmshurst
Chief Executive
30 March 2009
