 Introduction
Trading conditions in 2009 were some of the
toughest the automotive repair industry has seen
in recent times. Many smaller insurance repairs left
our marketplace as insurance policy excesses rose,
consumers tightened spending and the volume of
insurance claims reduced. Overall, I am pleased to
report that the Group negotiated these challenges
effectively and after a difficult first half, Nationwide’s
performance strengthened in the second half as
the management’s prompt actions took effect.   
Against this backdrop, results for the year are very
creditable and demonstrate the strengths of our
industry-leading business systems and processes,
which have enabled us to manage a volatile work
flow effectively.  
Nationwide’s financial position continues to be
very strong. The Group generates good cash
flows, has no borrowings and at the year end, its
net cash position stood at  £8.3m, substantially
higher than at the same point last year.   
We are pleased to recommend the payment of a
final dividend which maintains the total dividend
for the year at last year’s level.
Financial Results
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2009
of £170.9m showed a 5% decrease on last year
(2008: £179.3m). This partly reflected the
reduction in insurance claims evident over the
year.  More significantly in terms of profitability,
the sales mix also changed as consumers
responded to the economic downturn and we saw
a marked drop in smaller cosmetic repair work,
which typically offers higher margins.  As we
reported at the half year, this change in the sales 
mix impacted gross margins in the first half,
reducing profitability by some £2.1m.  Following
management actions, I am pleased to report that
gross margins in the second half of the year
recovered strongly, moving from 44.3% in the first
half to 50.0% in the second half.  This six
percentage point improvement represents a very
strong turnaround and meant that the gross
margin for the year improved to 46.9%, from
46.5% in 2008. 
The statutory profit before tax (after non-recurring
items) was £5.1m against £7.1m in 2008.  Of this
£2.0m decline, £1.3m is attributable to an
increase in the IAS19 pension charge, which rose
significantly, from £209,000 in 2008 to £1.553m
in 2009. This higher level of charge is likely to be
maintained in 2010. The profit before tax before
non-recurring items was £5.4m (2008: £7.8m) and
earnings per share before non-recurring items
were 8.9 pence (2008: 12.8 pence).
The Group continues to generate very strong cash
flows and Nationwide’s balance sheet remains
robust, with nil borrowings and net cash of £8.3m
at 31 December 2009, some 53% higher than at
the same point last year (2008: £5.4m). This increase
in the Group’s net cash position reflects our focus
on improving working capital management.
Dividend
The Board is pleased to recommend a final
dividend of 3.3 pence per share (2008: 3.3 pence
per share), which maintains the total dividend for
the year at last year’s level of 5.0 pence per share
(2008: 5.0 pence per share). Subject to
shareholder approval at the Annual General 
Chairman’s Statement
2
Nationwide Accident Repair Services plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
“...results for the
year are very
creditable and
demonstrate the
strengths of our
industry-leading
business”
Michael Marx
Chairman Meeting on 15 June 2010, the final dividend will
be paid to shareholders on the register at the
close of business on 28 May 2010.
Trading overview
It was a difficult year. The sharp and rapid drop in
smaller repair work was a marked feature in the
first half, with consumers avoiding non-essential
insurance repairs. The volume of repair jobs also
fell year on year, with the work flow harder to
predict than usual on a localised basis. While
trading conditions in the second half of the year
did not ease, there was a clear improvement in
the Group’s profitability as the measures we took
in the first half to protect and restore margins
yielded results.    
A large part of the management’s ability to manage
volatile trading conditions successfully derives from
Nationwide’s national scale and unrivalled operating
systems, which are underpinned by a single IT
platform. Our technology and systems enable us 
to manage our national network of bodyshops, 
call centres and mobile repair fleet in an integrated
manner for commercial and competitive advantage.
We believe that there is scope to drive further
operational efficiencies throughout the business 
and this remains a focus in 2010. 
It is pleasing to report that we were able to grow
our market share over the year, expanding our
relationship with RSA and signing new insurance
customers as well as new fleet customers.  
Our initiative to expand outside the insurance
market into the retail sector (where consumers pay
for vehicle repairs rather than insurers) continued 
to demonstrate good growth over the year. We are
now investing more significantly to develop our
retail sales and as part of this investment, we will be
making appointments to our senior management
team and expanding our mobile repair fleet.
Outlook
We do not expect market conditions in 2010 to
improve materially over last year.  However, as the
UK’s largest dedicated provider of accident repair
services, the group is well-positioned to trade well
and to execute its planned growth. We intend to
invest some £1m in the current financial year, over
and above our normal business development
spend, to support our expansion plans, which
have the objective over the next three years of
broadening Nationwide’s customer base and
developing additional income streams. Alongside
this, we will continue to build our insurance
customer business and to leverage further
operational efficiencies.
The business is underpinned by a strong balance
sheet and good cash flow and, looking ahead, 
we are encouraged by the growth opportunities
available to Nationwide and view long term
prospects positively.
Michael Marx
Chief Executive
22 March 2010
Chairman’s Statement Continued
Nationwide Accident Repair Services plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
3
Revenue
£170.9m
Profit before tax before 
non-recurring items
£5.4m
Accident Repair Centres
71
