 02 NAUTICAL PETROLEUM PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
Chairman’s
statement
I am pleased to present this Report and Accounts for  
Nautical Petroleum for the year to 30 June 2007.
Introduction 
The Company has not deviated from the 
objectives set and strategies defined at 
the time of admission to AIM in 2005 as 
a very early mover in the heavy oil sector. 
Nautical has made remarkable progress 
over the past two years and now enjoys 
the recognition of our peers and industry 
at large as a leading player in our field.
The strategy was born of conviction 
which continues to guide our focus and 
disciplined approach.
World trends and developments in the oil 
and energy sectors have broadly followed 
the path anticipated and strongly endorse 
the role and value of heavy oil in the 
future international market mix. 
The combination of global acceptance of 
the structural change and the impact of 
declining mature field production has led 
to something of a scramble for heavy oil 
prospects, both conventional and non- 
conventional, with majors assuming 
enormous new exposures in both sectors. 
The Company, having secured a quality 
portfolio, shared risk with aligned 
partners and defined an optimum multi-
block appraisal programme, is now fully 
prepared to proceed with confidence  
to the drilling phase and thereafter 
to production development, oil flow  
and revenue. 
Financial results 
The benefits of the “outsourced services” 
model were again evident in the results 
for 2007. Overhead costs were contained 
at a very modest level despite the 
substantial increase in activity on licence 
work programme commitments and 
preparatory to the appraisal drilling 
scheduled for late 2007 onwards. 
The Farmout programme served to 
spread risk and reduce costs for Nautical. 
This combined with the funds raised in 
2006, eliminated the need for any new 
equity placing during the period.
Nautical closed the financial year with 
sufficient funds to cover overheads and 
the projected net share of all confirmed 
appraisal activity through to early 2008.
The Company policy of equity financing 
in the pre-revenue phase will continue to 
guide the funding programme until the 
balance of risk and certainty changes. 
Dependent on the results of the drilling 
activities reconsideration of policy may 
be appropriate in the coming year.
New share issue was very limited and 
was only used for part payment of the 
acquisition of the BlueBeard and Skipper 
assets from Engen Resources Limited.
Assets and interests
Selective acquisition continued over the 
period to extend the portfolio within our 
preferred sector. Our policy of selective 
application resulted in the award of all 
four of the blocks applied for with 
partners under UKCS 24th Seaward 
Licensing Round. Nautical has adopted a 
guideline of a maximum 50% exposure  
in new licence applications to further 
spread risk while securing opportunity. 
All of the resulting participations are 
considered both prospective and a sound 
strategic fit.
The multi block farmout with Celtic Oil 
Limited (a subsidiary of SK Corporation of 
South Korea) closed as planned late 2006 
marking the beginning of a close and 
constructive working relationship on 
activities preparatory to the associated 
licence commitment programmes. 
Nautical appreciate the basis on which 
Chevron elected to withdraw from the 
Mariner field in the context of their world 
wide activities. On balance, the Company 
view this as a positive development 
opening the opportunity for an operator 
more closely aligned with our view  
on timing and approach to field 
development.  03 NAUTICAL PETROLEUM PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
By 30 June 2007, the Company had 
progressed from the two “promote” 
licences held on admission to AIM in 
March 2005, to participations on 13  
UK licences containing 8 discoveries. 
Nautical is designated Operator in  
9 blocks. 
The combination of an expanded asset 
base, substantial secured participations 
and continued industry interest, will 
enable Nautical to rationalise and “high 
grade” the portfolio in the next phase of 
our development towards production and 
revenue. While appraisal results will 
clearly guide decisions on retention and 
disposal, optimising the portfolio will 
become a key focus and is fully 
compatible with the policy of affordable 
appraisal exposure and judicious sharing 
of associated risk. The Company may 
even consider relinquishing low ranked 
assets on a selective basis to conserve 
resources. 
Directors, staff and associates 
The combination of sound counsel from 
the non-executive directors and the 
talent, capabilities and dedication of the 
executive management have resulted in  
a further year of remarkable progress for 
Nautical.
Despite major growth in the portfolio  
of interests and associated activity, the 
outsource policy has been applied with 
commendable discipline with a focus  
on high quality services from selective 
associates and suppliers. This has been 
achieved at a time when pressure on 
skilled resources and engineering and 
related facilities capacity is at an all  
time high. 
Nautical has a small in-house executive 
team who have been fully stretched by 
the expanding scope of interests. Their 
efforts, commitment and performance 
have been outstanding by any standard. 
It has, however, become clear that 
additional full time professional support 
will be required in both the technical 
and commercial areas to achieve a sound 
internal-external balance in the next 
phase of the Company’s development. 
Outlook 
Nautical was an “early mover” in  
the heavy oil sector and subsequent 
developments have fully vindicated 
the underlying concept and prospects. 
World oil outlook, best indicated by 
continuing high oil price, is one of high 
demand growth driven by developing 
Eastern economies combined with 
supply uncertainty due to declining 
production from mature sources. The 
average production barrel becomes 
heavier and production development 
focus moves in the same direction. 
Demand for scarce services has driven 
costs to all time highs but this may be 
expected to normalise and restore 
margin to an industry which will adjust 
to operating within new structural 
parameters. The demand driven 
structural price change has reduced the 
potential impact of OPEC policy while, 
in addition, OPEC itself has become 
more aligned to current values than 
past norms. 
These factors have driven a major 
reconsideration of the role of heavy oil in 
meeting the future supply call and we 
could, ourselves, hardly have scripted a 
more favourable scenario. 
 
The interest and pace of intrusion of 
majors and national oil companies into 
the heavy oil sector has increased 
dramatically – both in the conventional 
and the non-conventional (shale and tar 
sands) sectors where the exposures are 
enormous and the margins less certain. 
Nautical strategy has thus far been to 
secure discovered undeveloped heavy oil 
in the UKCS and Europe. The Company is 
squarely in the “conventional heavy oil” 
space and selects opportunity which  
has the potential for production using 
proven technologies. 
The combination of early mover 
advantage, low cost resource acquisition 
and selective participation in the 
conventional sector, positions the 
Company to significant advantage at the 
high value end of the burgeoning heavy 
oil sector with a large portfolio of quality 
prospective resources. 
Nautical appears to be very much in the 
right place, with the right opportunity, 
at the right time. 
The Company moves forward to a key 
phase with the first of several drilling 
commitments starting from October 
2007. We have great expectations for the 
future and a belief that the support of our 
shareholders, investors, and partners  
will be suitably rewarded as Nautical 
progresses towards first production  
and beyond. 
 
Ian Williams
Chairman
1 October 2007
“
The Company, having 
secured a quality portfolio, 
shared risk with aligned 
partners and defined an 
optimum multi-block 
appraisal programme, is now 
fully prepared to proceed 
with confidence to the 
drilling phase and thereafter 
to production development, 
oil flow and revenue.
”
Courtesy of Dolphin Drilling Limited
