 06 NAUTICAL PETROLEUM PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
Chief Executive’s 
review
Your company has demonstrated that even smaller companies 
can be acknowledged experts in specific regions. We have an 
industry envied understanding of the hydrocarbon plays on 
the East Shetland Platform.
Nautical continues to build a broad base 
of heavy oil assets focused on the East 
Shetland Platform of the UKCS, 
augmented and complemented by 
carefully selected discoveries/blocks in 
the UKCS and Europe. Nautical remains 
the only UK listed company offering pure 
exposure to heavy oil development and 
near term, low risk exploration for 
considerable resources.
The current period has been one of 
preparation for Nautical’s first operated 
wells and seismic acquisition in the 
UKCS coupled with expansion of our 
extensive portfolio of appraisal 
opportunities and low risk, high impact 
exploration prospects. 
Highlights of the period have been 
securing drill slots for our operated wells, 
along with boats for seismic acquisition 
and our resounding success, in aligned 
partnerships in the 24th Seaward 
Licensing Round.
Expanding our portfolio
East Shetland platform – 
our core area
Your company has demonstrated  
that even smaller companies can be 
acknowledged experts in specific 
regions. We have an industry envied 
understanding of the hydrocarbon plays 
on the East Shetland Platform through 
the integrated interpretation of an 
extensive seismic and well database. 
Nautical has mapped the distribution  
of the Maureen formation across the 
platform, extending the play away from 
Mariner to Mermaid and to the north in 
Blocks 8/5 and 9/1. Similarly, with the 
Heimdal Formation, predictions of 
distribution will be tested in the Kraken 
well. Finally, the Dornoch Formation 
delta hydrocarbon distribution can now 
be confidently predicted. This knowledge 
reduces the risk on prospects and 
enables blocks to be selected for both 
licensing round applications (such as 
2/3a and 2/4b) and acquisition.
Our strategy
•  Nautical Petroleum plc intends to become a significant 
producer of heavy oil, initially in the UKCS and in Europe. 
•  Secure further heavy oil discoveries in UKCS and EU 
through acquisitions, farmins and licensing rounds.
• Achieve near term production on current assets. 
•  Enhance crude value and mitigate risk through our 
relationships.
•  Acquire heavy oil exploration blocks with low/moderate 
commitments.
• Farmout to mitigate portfolio risk.
Resulting in enhanced shareholder value. 07 NAUTICAL PETROLEUM PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
“
By the end of 2007, your company will have drilled its first  
two operated wells, participated in a third well and acquired  
its first seismic survey.
”
West Central Platform and UKCS
Your Company has built up an extensive 
data base of the heavy oil plays which 
enabled the selection of blocks 28/9 and 
28/10b in the 24th Licensing Round. 
Similarly a regional study of the East 
Irish Sea basin identified the sleeper 
blocks of 113/29c and 113/30 enabling  
us to attract a partner and make a 
successful application.
Managing our growing portfolio
Nautical continues to follow a 
conservative policy, focusing on 
discovered oil, with minimal exposure  
to exploration risk, operating where 
appropriate and increasingly in ever more 
competitive licensing rounds, taking a 
smaller interest in Traditional licences 
offering firm or contingent well 
commitments. This proved successful in 
the 24th Licensing Round where Nautical 
operated its first Traditional award 
(Blocks 113/29c and 113/30) and 
participated in Joint ventures (ranging 
from 15% to 33.33%) in blocks 28/9, 
28/10b, 14/30a, 2/3a and 2/4b. Our 
success in the round and some small 
acquisitions has increased the UK 
portfolio to 13 licences, consisting of  
17 full and part blocks containing seven 
discoveries. Nautical is operator of nine 
licences and recognises the opportunity 
to share risk and cost through farmout 
and swaps, consequently we look 
forward to announcing further farmouts. 
Your company continuously high grades 
its portfolio by diligent analysis and 
realises that not all blocks will prove 
economically prospective/viable thus 
relinquishments will happen in  
the future. 
Meanwhile in France we hope to add to 
our current licence with two further 
applications as partner in an Egdon 
Resources led group.
Mariner – a new energised operator
Chevron announced that they were going 
to market their interest in Mariner in 
June 2007. Considerable industry interest 
endorsed Nautical’s heavy oil strategy. 
The process resulted in a Sale and 
Purchase Agreement being signed with 
Norsk Hydro ASA. We look forward to 
working with this new operator who has 
considerable experience in developing 
offshore heavy oil. Nautical hopes  
that development will be accelerated  
led by this new energised operator.
Unlocking potential – imminent 
drilling
By the end of 2007, your Company will 
have drilled its first two operated wells, 
participated in a third well and acquired 
its first seismic survey. The Kraken 
appraisal well will be drilled in October 
2007 on the crest of the structure, with 
the intention of confirming our model  
of thicker reservoir development, 
hydrocarbon column and best estimate 
contingent resources of 23.9 million 
barrels net to Nautical. 
Kraken will be followed by an exploration 
well on the Mermaid prospect (directly 
south of Mariner). We plan to intersect 
hydrocarbons in both the Maureen and 
Heimdal formations confirming net best 
estimate resources of 64.5 million barrels. 
Concurrently, an appraisal well is to be 
drilled on the Grenade discovery which, 
if the reservoir is as prognosed, will yield 
our first production in Spring 2008.
A well on the Catcher Prospect will be 
Nautical’s first in 2008, followed by an 
exploration well on the Selkie Prospect. 
Assuming that the seismic being 
acquired over block 3/27a firms up a 
prospect on the Hydra leads this will  
be our third well in 2008.
Technology
Nautical owns specialist process 
equipment suitable for use in the testing 
of heavy oils down to 10 API. The 
equipment can handle up to 40,000 
barrels per day (bopd) of liquid 
production of which 25,000bopd can be 
oil. This new technology could be used 
on the testing of the Kraken discovery  
as well as future Nautical development 
programmes, and when not in use there 
are opportunities to hire the equipment 
out to third parties. 
Oil portfolio audit
RPS Energy audited our oil portfolio held 
at 30 June 2007. Reserves and resources 
quoted in this report refer to the figures 
verified by this audit. All reserves are 
proven plus probable and all contingent 
resources and prospective resources are 
best estimates.
High value barrels escalating costs
Your Company expects the oil price to 
remain high in the medium term and we 
have seen evidence of a narrowing of 
heavy crude oil discounts in the UKCS,  
as production from key fields declines. 
Higher prices are coupled with escalating 
costs which we will control by high 
grading the portfolio, farming down  
and reducing drill risk through diligent 
technical evaluations. Nautical will 
continue to lobby the UK Treasury  
for improved fiscal terms for heavy  
oil development.
Skill shortages continue to prevail, 
however Nautical has established 
relationships with contractors who 
provide support to the small core team 
across all disciplines. Our expertise  
has been further strengthened by a 
secondment of a Drilling Manager  
from our major partner Celtic Oil Ltd.
The future
We look forward to an extensive seismic 
and imminent drilling campaign through 
the remainder of 2007 and 2008, which 
will release the potential of the largest 
independent heavy oil portfolio in  
the UKCS.
 
Steve Jenkins
Chief Executive Officer
1 October 2007
