 Nautical  
Petroleum plc 06
Chief Executive’s
review
We were pleased  
to welcome a new 
operator on Mariner 
(StatoilHydro) and  
look forward to 
development on both 
Mariner and Kraken.
Nautical entered into a new exciting 
phase of its development, drilling its first 
operated well on the Kraken discovery – 
a well which confirmed oil in the main 
reservoir and found further oil in a lower 
sand, resulting in an increased oil 
column and increased resources. This 
was followed by 2 operated exploration 
wells on Mermaid and Selkie.
We were pleased to welcome a new 
operator on Mariner (StatoilHydro) and 
look forward to development on both 
Mariner and Kraken. Our focus continues 
to be to build and manage a portfolio of 
heavy oil assets, primarily on the East 
Shetland Platform by means of licensing 
rounds (most cost effective acquisition). 
Nautical will continue to drill both 
appraisal and exploration wells but has 
successfully attracted partners which 
has limited our financial exposure and 
enabled your company to maintain a 
healthy cash balance despite the high 
level of drilling activity, seismic 
acquisition and driving the Mariner and 
Kraken developments forward. Nautical 
maintains its position as the only UK 
listed company offering significant 
exposure to a portfolio ranging from 
heavy oil developments to large 
exploration prospects.
Managing our portfolio
Your Company’s portfolio now has 3 solid 
opportunity legs, the first and second 
being developments of Kraken and 
Mariner and the 3rd an extensive 
portfolio of appraisal/exploration projects 
maintaining balance. The combined 
portfolio is now 17 blocks (13 licences) 
Nautical operating 7 blocks (5 licences).
Our strategy
 Nautical Petroleum plc 
intends to become a 
significant producer of 
heavy oil, initially in the 
UKCS and in Europe. 
Secure further heavy oil 
discoveries in UKCS and 
EU through acquisitions, 
farmins and licensing 
rounds.
Achieve near  
term production  
on current assets. 
> >
Kraken – successful appraisal well
Nautical’s first operated well (9/2b-2) 
was a successful well on the Kraken 
accumulation 2.7 kilometres north of  
9/2-1 encountering heavy oil in both  
the main Heimdal sand and lower  
sands. The result exceeded Nautical’s 
expectations pushing the oil-down-to 
(ODT) down 51 metres, giving a gross 
hydrocarbon column of at least 77 metres 
of lower viscosity than predicted oil.  
The well result indicates a large oil 
accumulation which your Company  
and its aligned Joint Venture partners 
are determined to develop in the shortest 
possible timeframe. In order to achieve 
this both development and technical 
studies are either completed or ongoing 
and a further appraisal well was drilled 
in September/October 2008 on the 
extreme north-eastern flank of the 
mapped structure. Submission of a field 
development plan is anticipated before 
the end of 2009.
Mariner – a new energised operator
StatoilHydro purchased Chevron’s equity 
in Mariner, East Mariner and Bressay 
and became operator in October 2007. 
Nautical is particularly pleased that the 
new operator shares its enthusiasm for 
heavy oil in the East Shetland Platform 
and endorses your Company’s heavy oil 
strategy. StatoilHydro are aggressively 
leading the joint Mariner and East 
Mariner group to develop both 
accumulations. A vigour illustrated 
elsewhere in the drilling and production 
testing of a Bressay well (directly 
northeast of Kraken).
Both the new 3D and ocean bottom 
cable surveys were acquired in the 
summer with results expected by  
the end of 2008. This accelerated  Report and 
Accounts 2008 07
“ We look forward to progressing both Kraken and 
Mariner to early FDP submission and drilling up  
our large appraisal and exploration portfolio to add 
to these development opportunities.”
Enhance crude value and 
mitigate risk through our 
relationships.
Acquire heavy oil 
exploration blocks  
with low/moderate 
commitments.
> >
Farmout to mitigate 
portfolio risk.
Resulting in enhanced 
shareholder value
programme was the first operational 
activity for 11 years over the Mariner 
accumulation. 
The Joint Venture will now proceed to 
submit a field development plan (FDP) 
covering both reservoirs in mid 2010, 
heralding the long awaited first oil  
from Mariner. 
Further significant appraisal and 
exploration opportunities
On both our operated blocks and as 
an active joint venture partner, we 
continue to acquire seismic data and 
carry out integrated studies over the 
blocks to elevate leads to drillable 
prospects, before releasing the potential 
through drilling.
The large Jurassic Hydra prospect was 
confirmed by acquiring our first operated 
seismic and will be drilled in October 
2008, to be followed by a well on Catcher 
in 2009 (28/9 and 28/10b) postponed 
from 2008 due to the operator’s high level 
of activity elsewhere.
Work continues apace on Merrow in the 
East Irish Sea basin confirming a large 
prospect at both Triassic and Permian 
levels. Contingent resources have 
increased on the Tudor Rose discovery 
due to mapping of reprocessed 3D 
seismic and new seismic is planned  
over the Scylla channel (contiguous and 
directly west of the Kraken discovery).
Nautical has been very successful in 
mitigating risk by farming out both 
exploration and appraisal wells, first  
to Celtic Oil Limited, then Canamens 
Energy Limited and Silverstone Energy. 
During the period further farmins were 
agreed with Canamens over the blocks 
8/25a, 9/2b and 3/27a, thus the impact of 
the unsuccessful exploration wells on 
Mermaid and Selkie were minimal and 
your Company has little financial 
exposure to the just completed Kraken 
appraisal well and the forthcoming 
Hydra exploration well whilst retaining 
35% equity interests in both. Your 
Company will continue to attract new 
partners to opportunities and aims to 
retain an equity interest of 30-50% in 
operated blocks and a meaningful 
interest in non-operated licences. 
Portfolio management includes the high 
grading of the blocks resulting in the 
relinquishment of non-prospective 
blocks. However, these will be replaced 
by new opportunities through farmin 
and most likely through licence awards.
Our extensive database and 
understanding of the hydrocarbons 
systems over the East Shetland Platform 
has enabled Nautical to attract new 
partners and retain existing co-venturers 
in high grading blocks for application  
in the 25th Seaward Licensing Round.  
In addition we have joined with our 
existing operators in making selective 
applications in the Moray Firth. The 
blocks are likely to be awarded at 
the end of 2009 or in the new year. 
Further successful French permit 
applications at Pontenx and Gex  
will augment the portfolio when  
officially awarded. 
Oil portfolio audit
RPS Energy carried out an audit  
as at 30 June 2008. A summary of their 
report is included in supplementary 
information at the end of this report.  
The figures in this report for reserves  
are proven plus probable and all 
contingent resources and prospective 
resources are best estimates.
Oil price still high but so are costs
Nautical expects the oil price to remain 
high despite the recent sharp fall off  
from record levels. The narrow quality 
discount is likely to persist since heavy 
oil production in the UKCS is still in 
decline and the sources of naphthenic oil 
are still few and far between.
Operational costs still remain high but 
rig slots seem to be appearing. We aim 
to control costs through farming down 
to reduce our financial exposure to 
upcoming wells. Nautical appears to be 
making some progress in lobbying the 
UK Treasury for improved fiscal terms  
for heavy oil development.
Skill shortages still prevail, however  
we aim to strengthen the engineering 
expertise in our core team whilst 
fostering our relationships with aligned 
contractors. We have demonstrated our 
operational capability by drilling 3 wells 
safely and on budget (2 in the winter). 
This is a great testament to all involved, 
including specific expertise from our 
Joint Venture partners.
The future
We look forward to progressing both 
Kraken and Mariner to early FDP 
submission and drilling up our large 
appraisal and exploration portfolio to  
add to these development opportunities. 
Steve Jenkins
Chief Executive
