 Business Review Nautical Petroleum plc 06
Steve Jenkins
Chief Executive Officer
Nautical is committed to progressing 
both Mariner and Kraken to FDP 
submission and adding value to the 
third leg of material appraisal and 
exploration opportunities
Chief Executive’s
review
Nautical is pleased to report that against the backdrop of difficult 
economic conditions during the period significant progress has 
been made. 
Steady Progress in Challenging Times
During the period Nautical focused on the technical development 
and appraisal of our cornerstone assets by drilling a well and 
acquiring both test and controlled source electro magnetic (CSEM) 
surveys over Kraken and participating in three seismic surveys 
over Mariner. 
Exploration activity was somewhat muted, restricted to an 
operated seismic survey over blocks 8/5 and 9/1. During the 
autumn a planned well on the Hydra block encountered an 
extensive period of severe weather conditions which prevented  
the well spudding and resulted in the demobilisation of the rig.  
The period also saw a drop of over $100 per barrel in the Brent spot 
price before recovering to a more comfortable $70 per barrel, well 
above the break even price for both the Company’s main projects.
Costs have not fallen in line with the oil price, especially on semi 
submersible day rates which remain around $250,000 per day. 
Fortunately large jack up rigs rates have fallen to around $150,000 
per day and can be utilised on most of Nautical’s blocks. It has 
become apparent that rig stacking is occurring as service 
companies seek to maintain day rates and insulate their exposure 
to the cost decreases seen elsewhere in the industry. Whilst 
unhelpful, Nautical believes competition will remedy this situation 
and we hope to see rig rates following the downward trends of 
other services.
A Good Result from the Chancellor
Nautical’s share price tracked the fall in global equity markets, 
with the AIM market particularly impacted by the economic and 
financial crisis which gripped the industry in the period. However 
the Company received a welcome uplift in the April budget, with 
the introduction of the new Field Allowance in which licence 
holders will be able to offset against the Supplementary Charge 
(20%). Heavy oil related developments have been given a Field 
Allowance of £800m as a specific target. This will enhance the 
value of all Nautical’s heavy oil portfolio and specifically improve 
the profitability of the Kraken and Mariner developments. Nautical 
has been engaged with Government since inception to secure this 
positive fiscal change, as both an individual company and through 
the Chairmanship of the Oil and Gas Independents Association 
(the main voice of UKCS independents). The company is pleased 
with this outcome and will continue to try to secure further 
incentives for both exploration and development activity.
Managing Our Portfolio Through Growth and Judicious 
Pruning
Nautical is committed to progressing both Mariner and Kraken to 
FDP submission and adding value to the third leg of material 
appraisal and exploration opportunities which has benefited from 
the addition of a producing asset (Keddington). Including the 
awards in the 25th Licensing Round, blocks secured post round 
and two further awards in France, the augmented portfolio now 
consists of 25 blocks (18 licences) of which 11 blocks (8 licences) 
are operated by Nautical. However through active portfolio 
management this will be reduced through relinquishments of 
blocks with diminished prospectivity, thus enabling resources to 
be directed towards the most promising blocks.
  Annual Report and Accounts 2009 07
We look forward to an increased level of 
operational activity in the coming year 
as we progress Mariner and Kraken 
further towards development decisions, 
as well as seek further resources from 
our exploration portfolio through 
successful drilling. 
Mariner – Less Risk and Increasingly Robust
Statoil (UK) Ltd (operator) continues to share Nautical’s enthusiasm 
and commitment to bring Mariner to development. Activity levels 
remained high with the acquisition of three seismic surveys 
namely, high resolution 3D seismic, ocean bottom cable (OBC) 
seismic and a platform site survey. The combination of the 3D and 
OBC (a technique proven on the Grane heavy oil field – Norway) 
was successful in imaging and defining the areal distribution of 
the Heimdal Sandstone reservoir and defining the Top Maureen 
Sand reservoir (increasing the hydrocarbon column). Additionally 
areas of Maureen Sand erosion proved to be more limited than on 
previous mapping. These increased volumes have not been 
included in the quoted resources since modified reservoir 
simulations have yet to be run. Furthermore studies through the 
period which have revealed reduced platform drilling costs, 
increased recovery rates, decreased water cut (using autonomous 
valves) will also be incorporated in the simulation and we aim to 
report the anticipated increase in resources in 2010.
The joint venture intends to pass through a major decision gate at 
the end of 2010 before submitting an FDP in 2011, followed by first 
oil in 2015.
Kraken – An Operated Substantial Accumulation
A third well was drilled on the north east flank of the Kraken 
hydrocarbon accumulation, 3.3km ENE of the successful 9/2b-2 
well and 5km from the 9/2-1A discovery well. The well was 
designed to intersect the oil water contact and investigate the 
upside (P10) resources. The reservoir (Heimdal Sandstone) proved 
to be absent. However, there are still substantial best estimate 
contingent resources (83mmbo gross, 29mmbo net) both around 
the successful wells and to the north and south. Exploration upside 
is evident to the west with best estimate prospective resources of 
114mmbo gross (40mmbo net).
Considerable technical efforts are focused on predicting the areal 
distribution of the reservoir over Kraken. Both sedimentological 
and seismic studies will be integrated with CSEM survey results 
to locate an appraisal well to be drilled in 2010 prior to submitting 
an FDP before end 2010. We are strengthening our management 
team to fulfil our ambition for first oil in 2012.
Again Nautical was successful in mitigating risk and reducing  
its financial exposure by farming out the 9/2b-3 appraisal to  
both Canamens Energy and Celtic Oil Limited, resulting in a  
zero cost participation in the well and an additional cash bonus to 
be received on FDP approval. 
Exploration and Appraisal Opportunities – Expansion in 
the UKCS and France
Nautical continues to be a significant operator and an active joint 
venture partner, although operational activity was below 2008 
levels with a seismic survey acquired over the Scylla channel 
(blocks 8/5 and 9/1) and the aborted spud of the Hydra well in 
block 3/27a. The Scylla prospect proved to be too high risk and 
small, consequently both blocks and the Hydra the will be  
allowed to lapse or be relinquished. On a more positive note  
the new operator of Catcher (Blocks 28/9 and 28/10b) will  
drill a well in the first half of 2010 (postponed due to Oilexco 
entering administration).
Further interpretation of recently reprocessed seismic has 
confirmed the large Merrow prospect at Collyhurst (Permian) level 
and identified further leads. The joint venture is currently 
identifying onshore drilling locations.
Nautical strengthened its position on the East Shetland Platform with 
the award of six blocks (four as operator) and securing the merger of 
the previously relinquished portion of 9/2b with the retained area. In 
the Moray Firth two additional blocks were secured post round to add 
to the award of Block 15/21g (containing the exciting ‘Spaniards’ 
prospect, downdip from tested oil). 
At the end of 2008 Nautical purchased its first production (10% of the 
Keddington field) from Egdon Resources. We see considerable upside in 
this field and aim to drill a sidetrack in late 2009 to boost production.
Our position in France has also been strengthened by two further 
awards, Pontenx and Gex. Both permits offer heavy oil appraisal/
development opportunities with added conventional oil upside in 
Pontenx and potentially large oil/gas traps in the Jura basin (Gex). 
These complement the existing development opportunity in St 
Laurent (Grenade-sur-Adour) and the large gas prospect beneath 
the Audignon Ridge.
We have made strong applications for heavy oil exploration blocks 
in Europe and are negotiating on a potential heavy oil field 
reactivation. Being mindful of overstretching our treasury we will 
concentrate on evaluating discovered oil blocks in the upcoming 
UKCS 26th Licensing Round. 
Oil portfolio audit
RPS Energy audited our oil portfolio held at 30 June 2009. Resources 
quoted in this report refer to the figures verified by this audit. All 
contingent resources and prospective resources are best estimates.
Firm Heavy Oil Demand Coupled with a Stable Price
Nautical agrees with the consensus that the oil price will remain 
stable and will rise as the world emerges more fully from recession 
and demand rises. We see this price upswing being mirrored or 
being more acute for naphthenic crude as world sources are few 
and distant and the UKCS heavy oil production is in rapid decline. 
The fall in development costs and the recently announced tax 
incentives, combined with this price scenario make our 
development projects increasingly robust and attractive. 
A More Active Future
We look forward to an increased level of operational activity in the 
coming year as we progress Mariner and Kraken further towards 
development decisions, as well as seek further resources from our 
exploration portfolio through successful drilling. Your board will 
make every effort to gain equity markets appreciation of our 
potential, resulting in a share price that fully reflects the 
Company’s substantial net resources.
Steve Jenkins
Chief Executive Officer
