 Nautical  
Petroleum plc 02
Chairman’s 
statement
 “Aside from the activity programme to move  
the Kraken and Mariner discoveries to FDP, the 
Company will continue the active appraisal of its 
substantial exploration portfolio. Nautical is on the 
move and is well into transition on the journey from 
prospects to production.” 
I am pleased to present 
this Report and 
Accounts for Nautical 
Petroleum for the year 
ended 30 June 2008. 
Introduction 
The Company maintained its specialist 
focus and has achieved considerable 
progress through a wide ranging 
programme of asset appraisal activity 
aimed at the key objectives of near term 
production development and early oil flow. 
The prospectivity of the Company’s 
licence portfolio was further endorsed  
by a series of farmin transactions which 
have now completed, on terms which 
clearly evidence industry partner 
confidence in the quality of Nautical’s 
assets. 5 wells and 1 seismic acquisition, 
with a combined cost of £46m, have 
been farmed out. Partners will pay  
£50m, resulting in a £4m suplus and a 
significant contribution to Nautical’s 
strong cash position.
In addition to the 23mmbo of probable 
reserves in Mariner, the Company has 
greatly increased contingent resources, 
achieving a step change from 56mmbo 
in the 2007 Report to 94mmbo – a 68% 
increase. This is accounted for primarily 
by results for the “cornerstone” Kraken 
and Mariner discoveries. In oil resource 
terms, Nautical shareholders have 
benefited significantly from the 
exceptional gains associated with 
the considerable progress made over 
this period. 
Financial results
A successful share placing was completed 
in October 2007 to raise £20m ahead of 
the first Nautical operated well drilled  
on the Kraken discovery late 2007. The 
funds raised, together with the plans for 
progressive multi-block farmouts, ensure 
that sufficient cash exists to cover 
Nautical’s planned equity funding 
requirements to reach FDP (Field 
Development Plan) submissions.
The Company continued to apply 
outsourcing services and risk sharing 
policies aimed at limiting overhead and 
sharing asset appraisal risk to conserve 
cash resources. 
Success in this respect has been 
evidenced by the latest farmouts, which 
have minimised the Nautical share of 
costs of a substantially expanded 
appraisal activity programme. Not all 
drilling has been successful, but where 
drill results were negative, the impact on 
Nautical cash resources was negligible. 
The Company continues to be debt  
free and has also secured a £7.5m 
contingency facility. This facility is 
regarded as fallback for unforeseen 
events and has not, to date, been drawn. 
Portfolio management 
Nautical has had exceptional success 
in attracting industry participation  
in sharing risk by farming in to the 
portfolio. The commercial skills of the 
management team have been evidenced 
by the ability to successfully close deals 
on highly beneficial terms. 
While drilling results have been mixed, 
the execution of drilling projects has 
been exemplary. Management has 
demonstrated a consistent ability to plan 
effectively and complete on time and 
within agreed budget. This performance 
has enhanced the Company’s standing 
both in the industry and with the 
regulatory authorities. 
While the prime focus has been on the 
discovered “cornerstone assets”, 
progress has also been made on the 
extensive portfolio of high graded 
prospects. The portfolio has been  Report and 
Accounts 2008 03
successfully expanded with partners in 
on-shore Europe, with further additions 
secured in France. 
Directors, staff and associates 
The extended Nautical team comprises a 
blend of management, expert specialist 
consultants, independent non-executive 
directors, partner secondees and 
contractors. The Company is very 
appreciative of the commitment and 
goodwill of all who have contributed  
to Nautical’s progress during the year.
The next phase of development  
will require additional specialist 
management capacity and several 
related changes are planned over the 
period to December 2008. 
Since formation the Company has 
contracted the services of Hemant 
Thanawala as CFO and Finance Director, 
sharing these services with other 
companies. The increase in business 
complexity, associated with planned 
progression to production development, 
now warrant the appointment of full  
time financial management in the direct 
employ of the Company. 
The appointment of a Chief Financial 
Officer has been made, effective October 
2008 and it is anticipated that the 
incumbent will also be appointed to the 
Board as Finance Director. 
The Nautical Board is highly appreciative 
of the contribution made by Hemant 
Thanawala from the formation of the 
Company to the present time and 
extends their thanks and best wishes to 
him for his services to the Company. 
It is intended to strengthen the 
management team by the appointment 
of a General Manager, Engineering.  
This appointment is also in preparation 
for the formulation of Field Development 
Approval over the period to 2010 and 
subsequent progression to production 
development and oil flow. 
Market rating 
The disconnect between the evidenced 
and assessed value in the Nautical 
portfolio and the market rating as 
reflected in the Company share price 
over the recent past has been a cause  
for considerable concern to the Board 
and management. 
Advice sought from many quarters failed 
to provide any rational explanation for 
this divergence other than that Nautical 
is a victim of the general market malaise 
associated with international financial 
events and conditions. 
Studies suggesting that Nautical is more or 
less in line with peer group trends are cold 
comfort. The exasperating contradiction  
is that at a time when the value of the 
portfolio is increasing rapidly by all 
conventional assessments, the market 
capitalisation has trended downwards. 
Reality is that Nautical has a well balanced 
portfolio of assets and opportunities. The 
Company has the partners, the cash and 
the capabilities to implement its objective 
of moving our core assets into the 
development phase within an estimated 
18 months. Peer group research of 
comparable upstream oil juniors reveal 
very few able to say the same.
Share consolidation
Having sought advice it was felt 
appropriate and in shareholders’ best 
interests that the company undertake  
a 1 for 20 share consolidation which took 
place on 25 September 2008. The 
associated effective reduction in the bid 
to offer spread is expected to reduce 
volatility, a feature generally supported 
by the institutional investment sector.
Outlook 
The outlook for Nautical continues to be 
extremely positive on all parameters 
which drive and deliver value – the more 
so given the confirmation of recoverable 
resources and the strong financial 
condition of the Company. 
As previously predicted, global trends 
continue to reflect the progressively 
heavier production barrel. Although the 
oil price has come down from the highs 
of well above $100 per barrel, Nautical 
believes that a step change to high 
energy prices has taken place. While 
expert opinion varies at the extremes, 
consensus suggests that price should 
remain well within the range required  
for viable near term production from 
Nautical’s “cornerstone” assets.
Aside from the activity programme to 
move the Kraken and Mariner 
discoveries to FDP, the Company will 
continue the active appraisal of its 
substantial exploration portfolio. 
Nautical is on the move and is well into 
transition on the journey from prospects 
to production. The Company has added 
considerable value over the past year 
and intends to continue to do so in the 
coming year.
Ian Williams
Chairman 
