 02 NAUTICAL PETROLEUM PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
The Company has made very substantial 
progress since listing on the Alternative 
Investment Market (AIM) in April 2005. 
In the process, Nautical has achieved 
widespread recognition as a focused and 
specialist heavy oil development and 
production company, which now holds  
a significant portfolio of reserves, 
contingent resources and prospects.
Nautical has rapidly achieved several of 
its key early-phase objectives, including 
recoverable reserve acquisition. 
Financial results 
The accounts reflect the pre-revenue 
phase with a very modest rate of 
spending, which is mainly associated 
with the technical programmes in 
support of licence applications, 
preparation for farm-out processes and 
prospective acquisition evaluation. 
During the period, two share placings 
were completed for a total of £18m. This 
funding covered the cash portion of 
corporate acquisitions including Alba 
Resources (Holdings) Group, through 
which the Company secured its 
participation in the Mariner heavy oil 
field. Funds raised have also assured that 
Nautical has the means to meet its share 
of projected costs of asset appraisal 
programmes, and licence work 
commitments. 
Nautical continues to apply its stated 
policy of equity financing during the 
pre-revenue phase, complemented by 
affordable reserve appraisal programmes 
with risk-sharing through selective  
farm-outs.
Licence activity 
The programme of selective corporate 
acquisition and licence applications has 
led to a greatly expanded portfolio of 
licence participations in the preferred 
area of the East Shetland platform. This 
area of the North Sea is a major heavy oil 
province and therefore a prime target for 
Nautical. The Company also announced 
its first licence participation in onshore 
Europe through a farm-in to the Grenade 
discovery in South West France, with 
completion awaiting French Government 
approval.
A major farm-out initiative was 
undertaken during the first half of 2006. 
The industry response (across the whole 
spectrum from specialists to oil majors) 
has underscored the rapidly growing 
interest in heavy oil prospects. The 
programme led to the announcement 
during June 2006 of a farm-out 
agreement with SK Corporation, of  
South Korea, covering four licence  
blocks, with completion expected  
in late September 2006. 
Operator approval 
A further early objective was to have 
Nautical approved as an Exploration 
Operator by the Department of Trade & 
Industry (DTI). Approval was officially 
confirmed in October 2005, and Nautical 
is now qualified to lead asset appraisal 
development projects on United Kingdom 
Continental Shelf (UKCS) licences where 
this complements the Company’s 
strategy. 
Directors, staff and associates 
By any measure, Nautical has achieved 
much during this period. This would not 
have been possible without the 
determination and dedication of the 
executive management, as well as  
the valued advice and support of the  
non-executive directors.
The Nautical strategy of outsourcing 
services has led to the creation of close 
relationships with professional associates 
and specialist suppliers, whose 
commitment and contribution have 
greatly assisted in the early development 
of the Company.
Outlook 
Nautical has established itself as a player 
in the heavy oil arena with an extended 
asset base, specialist focus and 
expertise, assured funding and 
advantageous market access. The 
Company is now well placed to progress 
to the production phase. 
Technological developments and market 
trends continue to favour the profitable 
development and production of heavier 
crude oil in most probable future oil 
market scenarios.
The opportunity to work closely with 
Chevron and SK Corporation on the 
appraisal and development phases of 
offshore fields will add to the capability 
and standing of the Company in the 
longer term. 
 
Nautical has the assets, expertise and 
funding to move forward with partners 
into the production phase when the focus 
will shift to the achievement of early 
production and revenue from the 
development of selected reserves.
Ian Williams
Chairman
22 September 2006
Chairman’s 
statement
I am pleased to present this Report and 
Accounts for Nautical Petroleum for the  
18 months to 30 June 2006. 03 REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 NAUTICAL PETROLEUM PLC
18 months 
in review
APRIL 2005
Nautical Petroleum plc Reverse Takeover 
completion (9/2b and 3/27a plus processing 
equipment).
Nautical Petroleum plc listed on AIM. 
JULy 2005
Raised £8m through private placing.
AUg UsT 2005
Completion of purchase of Alba Resources 
(Holdings) Ltd and First Mariner Ltd (26.67% 
Mariner, blocks 9/11c and 8/25a).
OCTOBER 2005
Converted block 9/2b from Promote to 
Traditional Licence and approved as 
Exploration Operator by DTI.
DECEMBER 2005
Signed an agreement to farm-in to  
St Laurent licence onshore France in the 
undeveloped Grenade heavy oil field 
Partnership with Egdon and Sterling 
Resources.
Awarded blocks 9/1, 8/5 and 15/7 in the UKCS 
23rd Licensing Round.
JANUARy 2006
Raised £10m through private placing.
JUNE 2006
Signed an agreement to farm-out four blocks.
