 06 NAUTICAL PETROLEUM PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
Chief Executive’s
review
This first period has been particularly exciting with strong 
progress made by implementing our stated business strategy 
of acquiring, appraising and developing discovered heavy  
oil resources.
Nautical is developing rapidly having 
assembled a valuable and broad base  
of real assets, through enacting a sound 
business plan shaped for our specialist 
niche of heavy oil. Nautical Petroleum  
is the only UK listed company offering 
direct exposure to heavy oil development 
in the UKCS. With a mixture of near-term 
development, appraisal and exploration, 
the Company’s portfolio is balanced with 
significant resource upside.
This first period has been particularly 
exciting with strong progress made  
by implementing our stated business 
strategy of acquiring, appraising  
and developing discovered heavy oil 
resources and securing high impact 
exploration acreage with limited work 
commitments.
Key highlights of the period include the 
admission to AIM, the agreed acquisition 
of additional acreage both in the North  
Sea and South West France and the 
successful multi-licence farm-out 
agreement with SK Corporation of  
South Korea.
Review of activities
Creating a long-term business
The Company aims to retain significant 
stakes and operate its licences. To this 
end, Nautical was approved by the DTI as 
an Exploration Operator in October 2005 
and fulfilled all obligations on licence 
P1077 (Block 9/2b) entering the second 
two year term.
Licence P1077 was one of the Company’s 
two licences (Licence P1203 being the 
other) at the time that the Company was 
admitted to AIM. Since then, its portfolio 
has been increased with the acquisition 
of Alba Resources (Mariner discovery 
and two exploration licences), the award 
of two licences (three blocks) as operator 
in the 23rd Seaward Licensing Round, 
and the farm-in (awaiting French 
Governmant approval) to earn a 22% 
interest in the St Laurent Permit in South 
West France, which marks the 
Company’s first foothold on mainland 
Europe. Agreements were signed  
to acquire a further two blocks from 
Engen Resources Ltd in the post  
balance sheet period.
Nautical now has interests in 10 blocks 
(five discoveries) in the UKCS and one 
licence in France with Nautical operating 
eight blocks. The Company’s main aim 
during the period was to more tightly 
define the hydrocarbon volumes in place 
in both discoveries and exploration 
prospects. This has been achieved by  
the careful interpretation of reprocessed 
seismic data integrated with the 
petrophysical studies resulting in the 
reduction of risk. Nautical is further 
mitigating risk by farming down its 
interest in four blocks to a respected 
third party (Celtic Oil Limited, a wholly 
owned subsidiary of SK Corporation),  
as well as by accelerating its drilling 
activity, thereby furthering the 
Company’s exploration and appraisal 
ambitions.
Farm-out agreement
Spreading the risk
It is Nautical’s aim to mitigate exploration 
and appraisal risk by farming out the 
drilling of mature prospects and in  
June 2006 it successfully concluded a 
comprehensive multi-licence farm-out 
agreement with SK Corporation, Asia’s 
leading energy and petrochemical 
company. The agreements cover a 
selection of heavy oil prospects within 
the Company’s portfolio, as well as 
detailing where Celtic Oil Ltd will  
carry part of Nautical’s exploration 
expenditures on a two-for-one basis for 
the proposed work programme. The wells 
are to be drilled between 2007 and 2008 
as part of Nautical’s commitment to its 
licensing terms with the DTI.
The farm-out invitation process followed 
comprehensive technical preparation by 
Nautical and was conducted over a two 
Our strategy
Nautical Petroleum plc intends to 
become a significant producer of heavy 
oil, initially in the UKCS and in Europe. 
• Secure further heavy oil discoveries 
in UKCS and EU through 
acquisitions, farm-ins and licensing 
rounds.
• Achieve near term production on 
current assets. 
• Enhance crude value and mitigate 
risk through our relationships.
• Acquire heavy oil exploration blocks 
with low/moderate commitments.
• Farm-out to mitigate portfolio risk.
Resulting in enhanced  
shareholder value. 07 REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 NAUTICAL PETROLEUM PLC
month period. The programme saw more 
than 10 companies assess the potential 
of Nautical’s assets on offer and 
represents independent confirmation  
of growing industry interest in North  
Sea heavy oil opportunities, effectively 
endorsing the business focus and 
strategy of the Company. Our strategy of 
thorough technical preparation provided 
a sound basis for the evaluation of the 
opportunities in our asset base and this 
transaction supports an acceleration and 
expansion of our immediate work 
programme. 
Technology
Nautical owns specialist process 
equipment suitable for use in the testing 
of heavy oils down to 10 API. The 
equipment can handle up to 40,000 
barrels per day (bopd) of liquid 
production of which 25,000bopd can  
be oil. This technology could be used  
on the testing of the 9/2b discovery as 
well as future Nautical development 
programmes, and when not in use there 
are opportunities to hire the equipment 
out to third parties. Ownership of this 
equipment provides commercial leverage 
and a competitive advantage. 
Oil portfolio audit
RPS Energy audited our oil portfolio  
held at 30th June 2006. Reserves and 
resources quoted in this report refer to 
the figures verified by this audit. All 
reserves are proven plus probable and all 
contingent resources and prospective 
resources are best estimates.
Post-year end
North Sea block acquisitions  
Resource additions in our core area
In July 2006, Nautical entered into an 
agreement to acquire a 98.5% operated 
interest in the Bluebeard (Block 9/12b, 
Licence P1079) and Skipper (Block 9/21, 
Licence P1080) discoveries on the East 
Shetland Platform from Engen Resources 
Ltd for a minimum of US$2.65m in shares.
This transaction secured significant 
reserves adjacent to our current portfolio. 
The Bluebeard discovery is located 
directly east of the Mariner discovery 
and is in close proximity to oil 
transportation facilities capable of 
accepting additional throughput. Three 
wells have been drilled (9/12-3 (in 1975), 
9/12b-6 (1985) and 9/12b-4 (1982)); the 
first two wells flowing 144 and 728bopd 
respectively from the Maureen 
Formation. This is the same reservoir as 
Mariner but the oil, with an 18 to 19API 
and a viscosity of less than 20cp, is of 
better quality. A further shallower 
reservoir, the Eocene Mousa Formation 
was oil bearing in 9/12–3 but the oil is 
more viscous and with a lower API (10) 
than the deeper formation. A Competent 
Persons Report commissioned by Engen 
assigns best estimate contingent 
resources of 16.9 million barrels of oil 
(mmbo) (16.6mmbo net to Nautical) to  
the Bluebeard discovery.
The Skipper discovery is located 
immediately east of the Selkie and Kelpie 
prospects (block 8/25a) and was tested 
by well 9/21-2 in 1990, encountering a 
16 metre oil column in excellent quality 
Paleocene Dornoch Formation sands. An 
FDP based on best estimate contingent 
resources of 33.1mmbo (32.6mmbo net  
to Nautical) and 2D seismic data 
interpretation was submitted to the DTI.
Both blocks are subject to a farm-in by  
a third party which, if concluded, would 
reduce Nautical’s financial exposure  
on an appraisal well on Bluebeard to a 
minimal level.
Market overview
Nautical expects international oil  
prices to remain relatively high for  
the foreseeable future. Additionally,  
a narrowing of the heavy crude oil 
discounts is also anticipated as demand 
rises and refineries are upgraded to 
process more complex crudes. 
Unfortunately, buoyancy in the 
commodity price has been accompanied 
by cost escalation for services, 
exacerbated by tightening availability, 
particularly with respect to drilling rigs. 
The Company has acquired site surveys 
over two structures so that it is drill-
ready and can take advantage of rig slots 
when they emerge. The challenge in the 
coming year, and beyond, will be to 
manage cost escalation, driven by 
industry-wide shortages of equipment 
and personnel. The increased call on 
resources in the upstream sector and 
attendant cost pressures present a 
challenge to the sector, but should not 
prejudice the viability of the Company’s 
business model and, furthermore, are 
significantly mitigated by our strategy.
The future
Nautical will continue to add shareholder 
value through effective management, 
fully evaluating our assets and further 
expanding our portfolio by diligent 
acquisition and licence round awards.
Nautical continues to look forward to  
first revenues from our high-quality 
discoveries both in the UKCS and 
onshore Europe with our focus shifting  
to the development and management  
of an extensive drilling programme 
across our asset portfolio.
steve Jenkins
Chief Executive Officer
22 September 2006
Nautical will continue to add shareholder value through 
effective management, fully evaluating our assets and further 
expanding our portfolio by diligent acquisition and licence 
round awards.
