 8_
cHIeF execUtIVe’s ReVIeW
8_ NCC Group annual report and accounts 2008
30% GROWTH
IN ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFITS
overview
For the fourth successive year as a listed company we 
produced a record performance, delivering for the year 
ended 31 May 2008 a 41% growth in revenues that translated 
through to a 30% growth in adjusted operating profits.
Overall, the Group delivered £35.7m of revenue, up from 
£25.4m in 2007 and adjusted operating profits of £10.7m 
up from £8.2m in 2007. After £0.2m of one off exceptional 
reorganisation charges as a result of the acquisition of Escrow 
Europe, the adjusted Group operating profits were £10.5m. 
Despite the strong results this year, the last twelve months 
have been tough. Aside from the increasing uncertainty 
caused by the impact of the credit crunch and the global 
economic downturn that has blighted business worldwide, 
we moved our share listing to the Official List in July 2007, 
and completed the acquisition of, and fully integrated, two 
complementary businesses. 
The Group continues to demonstrate that our strategy of 
focused sustainable organic growth, allied to carefully 
targeted acquisitions is highly successful as confirmed by 
our enviable track record as a listed company over the last 
four years.
current markets
Since flotation we have positioned the Group to avoid 
the vagaries of the domestic economy as now most of 
our products and services fall into the non discretionary 
expenditure category. Whilst no business can be completely 
immune from economic cycles, the Board is confident 
that the Group is as well insulated as it can be against any 
economic downturn. 
Examples of how our activities occupy areas of IT expenditure 
where curtailment would be extremely difficult include:
n
  organisations who understand the need for protection of 
their business critical applications as corporate failures and 
product withdrawals increase; 
 
n
  systems, networks and data security have not kept pace 
with the growth of data and of identity theft and hacking, 
which continue to reach new levels on an almost daily 
basis; and
n
  web site performance is critical to all types of businesses 
as the web is now often their primary shop window on the 
commercial world.  
Furthermore, we have carefully and significantly reduced 
our reliance on public sector contracts.
NCC Group is now the largest provider of Escrow services in 
the world. Further, we are the only provider who mandates 
quality ahead of price. We expect that with the continuing 
economic pressure, low cost, low value propositions will 
prove to be false economy. This applies as much in the 
US where the lack of even basic testing compromises the 
solution sold by most of our competitors.
There is little doubt that the underlying economics of the IT 
software and services markets are poor, but for us this current 
adversity is beneficial as escrow decisions are not delayed. 
They are seen as critical by well managed corporate users 
who are determined to mitigate risk effectively.   _9
Recycled paper
Since we last reported we have not seen a large software 
owner going out of business. However, given the current 
economic cycle, as history has repeatedly shown, this is 
now a distinct possibility. We have consistently worked with 
software owners to put together pro-active escrow solutions 
and are now beginning to see some real benefits as this 
offers a very positive commitment from the owners to both 
their existing and prospective clients.  
Our approach has been extended to adapting the less valued 
two party escrow model, as employed by our competitors, 
and developing it so that it is truly beneficial for both parties. 
Traditionally two party agreement cover was low cost and low 
value as none of the beneficiaries knew if they were covered 
or not. The NCC Group version of this agreement provides 
a certificate of cover so the beneficiary knows exactly 
when cover is being provided, and more importantly when 
it is not. Respected owners are being proactive towards 
this proposition and we expect the take up by owners to 
continue to grow. 
 
Within Assurance Testing, the market for Secure Test, our 
penetration and security testing service, continues to see strong 
growth as the headlines are dominated by easily avoidable 
examples of weak security that have resulted in real data 
and financial loss. Over the last 12 months the constant 
stream of media coverage of repeated and significant failures 
of Government departments to keep data and laptops 
safe and secure has been our best marketing campaign. 
These constant embarrassing failures highlight the potential 
for a substantial growth in the demand for our testing services 
as well as our Information Security Consultancy services. In 
addition to human error, the criminal world continues to use 
hacking as a prime method of fraud. It is a big and lucrative 
business, as demonstrated by the recent hacking into the 
Cotton Traders website. 
The Secure Test business continues to be the largest team of 
CESG CHECK accredited ethical security testers in the UK with 
currently over 44 testers.  However, we are seeking greater 
strength and capacity to deliver the more significant contracts 
for CESG, the information assurance arm of the UK 
Government Communications Headquarters, as well as to 
public and private organisations, all of whom require NCC 
Group services.
Site Confidence continues to offer a highly valued alternative 
to the entry level unsophisticated web and monitoring 
services available in the market and is suitably adaptable, 
flexible and user friendly to offer a real alternative to the 
more expensive and complex network test tools. This and our 
dedicated account management approach will continue 
to ensure our ongoing success in the market place.
The security side of our Consultancy division complements 
our Secure Test propositions. We offer advice to organisations 
to ensure that they are best placed to protect themselves 
and their business assets from attack. NCC Group provides 
information security advice from every perspective, 
especially for those organisations that are covered by the 
PCI Data Security Standards. Our position in the information 
security market is further enhanced by our being accredited 
PCI Auditors, having CLAS consultants and the biggest CHECK 
Test teams in the UK. As the new financial year progresses 
this area will become an even more significant part of our 
Consultancy division’s offering.
business performance
We continue to manage the Group through three distinct 
business units, Escrow Solutions, Assurance Testing and 
Consultancy. Each is independent and run by an autonomous 
management team responsible for setting and, after Board 
approval, delivering its own plans, with each area being 
tasked with generating organic growth.
Group escrow solutions
The Group Escrow Solutions business remains the cornerstone 
of the Group representing 50% of our revenue. We have 
experienced good growth in all our key performance 
measures of profitability, new contracts, beneficiaries, 
renewals and Verification Testing.
Group Escrow Solutions profitability grew to £10.2m (2007: 
£8.0m), an increase of 28%, on revenue of £18.0m, with the 
UK contributing £15.7m.
Escrow renewals for the Group represented £11.2m (2007: 
£9.4m) in the year, benefiting from continued tight controls 
over the termination process. Contract terminations were 
less than 10% in the year and below 11% for agreement 
beneficiaries.
 
Worldwide the beneficiary base has now grown to 25,193. 
There are 15,102 (2007: 13,521) beneficiaries to 8,124 (2007: 
7,440) agreements in the UK and we have 844 minimum 
annual fees on agreements.
The rate of agreement completions, renewals and 
terminations has been such that we are forecasting Group 
escrow renewals to be £13.8m for 2008/09 with UK renewals 
forecast to be £11.2m.
Escrow Verification Testing remains a predominantly UK sale, 
although we are seeing very good progress within the US 
and European marketplaces, with customers beginning to 
understand the benefits of increased levels of protection. 
The Escrow UK Verification Testing service delivered £3.0m 
of revenue (2007: £2.4m). We continue to see over 40% 
of verifications being repeated and have an order book 
of £1.6m, with a further £0.5m of verifications in the other 
Escrow businesses. 10_
Assurance testing
Assurance Testing consists of two components, Secure Test 
and Site Confidence. Assurance Testing revenue grew 121% 
to £12.8m with an increase in profitability of 127% to £1.7m 
(2007: £0.7m). 
Secure Test includes the remainder of our Specialist Testing 
activities and despite moving out of this area at the start of 
the financial year and foregoing £0.8m of revenues, growth 
was still up 139% to £7.7m in 2008 from £3.1m in 2007 
or 37% excluding the acquisition. As risk mitigation moves 
further up the corporate agenda, regardless of budget, we 
see significant growth in this area.  
The Site Confidence operation encompasses our web site 
monitoring and load testing business and saw revenues 
increase to £5.1m (2007: £1.6m) in our first full twelve months 
of ownership. It offers an excellent opportunity across the 
Group as it fits with all parts of our Assurance Testing offerings 
and forms part of the framework of our 24/7 Assured security 
monitoring proposition. The online monitoring business offers 
a high level of recurring revenues, comprising of at least 
90% of our blue chip customers continuing to renew their 
annual contracts.
consultancy
Consultancy revenues grew by 7% to £4.9m (2007: £4.6m) 
as we continued to grow our presence in the Information 
Security marketplace. Once again this division had a strong 
second half, with revenues up 18% to £2.8m (2007: £2.3m) 
for H2 and with it we saw a return to our anticipated utilisation 
levels of c.75%.
As a result of the growth in revenues, we generated profits 
of £0.6m in H2. However, we remained cautious in our 
recruitment so did not take full advantage of the margin 
opportunities as we relied on high quality trusted associates 
rather than increasing the headcount. Operating profits for 
the year were unchanged at £0.7m (2007: £0.7m).
Investment and product development
We have for a long time held the belief that a managed 
security offering in the market is long overdue. To date, no 
organisation has been able to provide an effective combination 
of web monitoring to cover capacity and performance with 
security assurance to ensure vulnerabilities are not appearing in 
monitored corporate and internet applications. 
Penetration and Security Testing provides a degree of comfort 
that a network is safe. However, this needs to be carried out 
on a regular, minute by minute basis if total assurance is to 
be achieved.  
Our new service offering, 24/7 Assured, helps businesses get 
closer to that peace of mind and repel the threat of organised 
crime and opportunist hackers. As more and more money is 
lost to fraud and it becomes more widely reported, business 
and importantly the major retailers, are fast beginning to 
accept the threat as very real. The Group see 24/7 Assured 
as offering companies genuine protection.
Our investment in this area of £1m to £1.5m over the next 
12 months will be on developing new tools for the new 
product as well as on updating our current monitoring and 
performance solutions.  The Group will not only benefit from 
monitoring revenues and the new product set revenues 
but will also become more embedded in customers’ web 
work streams.
Acquisitions
We successfully completed two acquisitions in the financial 
year and through our integration team have carefully 
brought them in to the Group. We are already maximising 
the benefits and returns from the increased scale, territory 
and customer opportunities they bring. 
We will continue to invest in appropriate complementary 
businesses by way of company or asset based acquisitions. 
We are regularly involved in discussions with suitable  
target companies but will always remain cautious, as 
the integration and extraction of enhanced value is of 
paramount importance to the Group. 
employees, recruitment and retention
Recruitment and retention remains the biggest challenge to 
growth for a people business such as ours. The last 12 months 
has seen a good intake of new testers and technical staff in 
the Assurance Division, as well as some excellent well qualified 
Information Security consultants. The Escrow Solutions UK  
sales teams have gone through a period of change with 
a refreshing of the teams as practices and processes 
change.
As a Group we are committed to employing the best people 
in the market wherever possible. We have a headcount of 
334 employees worldwide.
the way forward
We continue to make a virtue of acting independently and 
operating as trusted, equitable advisors. To date we have 
successfully acquired and integrated five businesses that 
have complemented our service and delivery offerings. 
Combining that with our outstanding track record of organic 
growth, we have a sound business model that we will 
continue to evolve and develop to grow the Group further. 
cHIeF execUtIVe’s ReVIeW
(continued)
NCC Group annual report and accounts 2008 _11
Rob cotton
Chief Executive
NCC Group plc
2 July 2008
As A GRoUP We ARe 
commItteD to 
emPL oyInG tHe best 
PeoPLe In tHe mARKet 
WHeReVeR PossIbLe
Recycled paper
