 06 — APC Technology Group PLC — Annual Report and Accounts 2013
“ The last financial year was an 
exciting one for all involved with 
APC as we began to reap the 
rewards of our efforts over the 
last five years to generate growth 
from diversification into the 
cleantech sector.”
The last financial year was an exciting one for all involved with 
APC as we began to reap the rewards of our efforts over the 
last five years to generate growth from diversification into the 
cleantech sector. Positioning the Company in this emerging 
market has taken time but the early success we are enjoying 
validates the decisions taken over the past five years to 
continue to invest in diversification despite the tough trading 
conditions in our traditional electronic component distribution 
markets.
The increase in Group revenues of 60% in the year to the end 
of August 2013 was achieved as a direct result of this 
diversification into the cleantech sector. Minimise Limited, of 
which we took 100% ownership in June 2013, enjoyed an 
increase in revenues to £8,924,000 from less than £650,000 in 
its prior accounting period. Investments in Minimise Controls 
Limited (previously QV Controls Limited) and Minimise Energy 
Limited have not, to date, resulted in rapid growth in 
themselves but have played their part in developments across 
the business which have created the strong foundations for 
future growth that now exist in terms of an expanded 
customer and technology base. Post year end we are now 
completing a restructuring of these businesses to create a 
more cohesive organisation with the resources to consolidate 
the gains made to date and build on them in the future.
It is important for us to recognise that the expansion into the 
cleantech sector came as a direct result of profits generated 
by the Group’s distribution activities being used to support the 
cleantech business to varying degrees over the past 5 years. 
Despite investment in the distribution business being 
somewhat limited during that period, our core business has 
remained strong relative to the distribution sector in general 
and we are optimistic that it will return to profitable growth  
as numerous initiatives undertaken during the last few years 
yield results and as the business benefits from a more buoyant 
UK economy.
Electronic Component Distribution
Revenues in our core electronic component distribution 
business declined by 5.6% compared with 2012, with the 
reduction in revenues since 2010 now totalling 5%. However, 
these headline figures do not reflect a number of positive 
developments in this part of our business. 
According to the Association of Franchised Distributors of 
Electronic Components (AFDEC) the UK distribution market 
which we address has shrunk by 15.4% over the same 3-year 
period indicating that we have successfully gained market 
share. The commercial and industrial markets for electronic 
components have, with few exceptions, been significantly 
affected by the prolonged recession and defence spending 
has been noticeably reduced by government cutbacks. As a 
result, and as is always the case during periods of declining 
markets, a number of electronic component manufacturers 
reacted by evaluating their distribution arrangements and 
making changes in an effort to address the market through 
different channels to boost short-term profitability. As would 
be expected, the impact of this process on APC has been 
both positive and negative. During the past 3 years the 
Company lost some lines which had generated consistent 
revenues for, in a couple of cases, more than 25 years. 
Although this contributed to the declining revenues 
experienced during the period, we are very pleased that 
overall this repositioning process has been a positive one for 
us as the few manufacturers that we lost have been more than 
offset by the potential offered by several new relationships 
that we have entered into. We position ourselves very carefully 
as a specialist distributor using our technical expertise to 
design components into applications which will generate 
revenues for a number of years. This has been recognised by 
a number of manufacturers including Mercury Systems Inc, 
Renesas Electronics Europe GmbH for the (supply of NLT 
Technologies displays), Spacek Labs Inc and Nicomatic SA all 
of which are amongst the leaders in their particular niche and 
offer us good growth potential now that we have entered into 
cHief executive officer’s r eview APC Technology Group PLC — Annual Report and Accounts 2013 — 07
Lighting up Morrisons
Minimise Limited is now in phase 
three of a nationwide LED lighting 
roll-out for Wm Morrisons 
Supermarkets PLC – a testament 
to their performance in product 
development, supply and 
installation.
When Morrisons couldn’t source an LED product that met 
all their requirements, they asked Minimise to design a 
solution for them. Successful product development and 
trials resulted in a first phase roll-out to 33 supermarkets, 
and Morrisons were delighted with the results. Minimise not 
only achieved 53% KWh savings and return on investment 
with the correct lux-level requirements but also an aesthetic 
impact that transformed existing stores into modern, bright 
shopping environments without the costs associated with a 
major revamp for Morrisons. 
After phase one, Minimise were asked to look at options for 
square grid ceilings in front-of-house areas. After trials in 
their Chesterfield store, Morrisons were so impressed with 
the Minimise range of panel lights they pushed the button 
on phase two. The result? An 80-store rollout of 
replacement panel lights and retro-fit T8 tubes, achieved  
by Minimise in just four months.
Before phase two had been completed, Morrisons asked 
Minimise to embark on phase three. This involved back-of-
house areas in 193 stores. The package has since been 
extended to incorporate another 35 stores front of house; a 
further 40 stores as part of a ‘fresh format’ renovation 
programme; and a 65-store toilet refurbishment. Minimise 
continues to enjoy a close working relationship with Morrisons. 08 — APC Technology Group PLC — Annual Report and Accounts 2013
relationships with them. There is always a time lag between 
signing with a new manufacturer and the generation of full 
production revenues but the systems we operate to track 
design-in activity through the various stages from first 
customer engagements to full production orders indicate that 
we should see a return to growth in our distribution business 
in the foreseeable future. 
The distribution business is managed as a single reporting unit 
within which separately branded specialist sales teams focus 
on specific product ranges and address targeted markets.
Contech; unlike the rest of the economy, the medical and 
broadcast sectors have remained buoyant because of an 
increasing use of IT across most medical establishments and 
an increase in the complexity of broadcasting services. Our 
success to date in the medical sector has mainly been in 
hospitals, which remains a key target market for us, but 
increasing awareness of the need for infection control in other 
sectors and the introduction of additional related products  
has resulted in opportunity in new markets including dentists 
and veterinaries.
Hero; the industrial market has faced challenging times as a 
result of the recent economic climate. As a result we have 
experienced a downturn in customer confidence which has 
resulted in companies being protective of cash flow and 
cautious in placing long-term orders. To counter this we have 
re-focused our product offering and resources on growing a 
base of new design wins in growing technology sectors and 
expect to see the early signs of increased customer 
confidence that we are now seeing lead to growth in the 
coming year.
HiRel; our HiRel team has performed well recently, particularly 
on sales of DC-DC converters, Data Bus i/c’s & hardware and 
other components into civil aircraft and space applications. 
We are seeing some excellent opportunities going forward, 
both for these core products, and our more recent innovative 
lines in high temperature semiconductors, ultra capacitors and 
semi-custom interconnect products.
Locator; after a tough couple of years there are now some 
exciting opportunities starting to emerge due to work 
undertaken to strengthen relationships with some of the 
largest companies within the defence, aerospace, oil & gas 
and transport sectors. Locator specialises in obsolescence 
management and an increasing infiltration of counterfeit 
components into all high-reliability markets will continue to 
drive a need for the services and expertise we provide.
Novacom; the traditional market for high-frequency 
electronics in aerospace and space applications remain quite 
buoyant; demand for components used in improvised 
explosive device (IED) jamming systems remains very strong 
despite the reduction in the deployment of UK armed forces 
overseas. The recent addition of Mercury to the supplier base 
and the new product lines from Spacek and CTT will begin  
to make an important contribution starting in the current 
financial year.
Time; we expect continued steady growth in this part of our 
business as the need for accurate timing systems grows in line 
with an expansion in global trading.
Displays+; we anticipate that revenues for displays and for 
single board computers will grow steadily over the next few 
years following our appointment as the prime route to market 
for NLT displays on October 1st. NLT, a joint venture between 
NEC displays and AVIC Technologies is one of the top 5 
displays manufacturers in the world and we are already 
starting to develop some significant opportunities.
All in all we’ve worked hard over the last few years to position 
ourselves for growth in every part of our distribution business 
and expect that the rewards will start to materialise in the 
current financial year.
“ All in all we’ve worked hard over 
the last few years to position 
ourselves for growth in every part 
of our distribution business and 
expect that the rewards will start 
to materialise in the current 
financial year.”
cHief executive officer’s r eview Continued APC Technology Group PLC — Annual Report and Accounts 2013 — 09
Cleantech Activities
During the last financial year our activities in the cleantech 
sector gathered momentum. Our Minimise Energy brand 
offers what we believe to be a compelling proposition for 
organisations interested in reducing waste in their property 
portfolio by becoming more efficient in the way they consume 
energy. To date it has been through the sale of LED lighting 
that we have enjoyed the majority of our success, but we 
consider ourselves to be a provider of energy efficiency 
solutions and, therefore, offer a wide portfolio of technologies 
and services. 
Following the investment in Invisible Systems Limited (ISL)  
in June, the Group’s technology and intellectual property 
portfolio, enables us to approach clients with powerful but 
simple to install, wireless, cloud based monitoring system to 
develop an understanding of their energy consumption. Once 
there is a real time, granular understanding of where and when 
energy is being consumed, we work with the client to use the 
control capabilities offered by the ISL system coupled with 
energy efficient retrofit technologies to make a significant 
improvement in the building’s energy efficiency, in many  
cases reducing consumption by well over 20%. 
Whilst there are a number of significant projects using the ISL 
technology under development there was very limited financial 
impact from it in the year under review. The vast majority of 
cleantech revenues in 2013 were generated from the sale and 
installation of LED lighting by Minimise primarily to Wm 
Morrisons Supermarkets PLC who used the retrofit of LED 
lighting to reduce their energy consumption related to lighting 
where installed by more than 50%. Minimise’s strategy of 
offering its own, advanced brand of LED products fully 
installed is a key part of the strategy moving forward. This 
approach disrupts traditional supply chains which would 
ordinarily see products pass through a number of 
organisations en route from the factory to the end customer. 
Minimise customers achieve a return on investment which we 
believe to be increasingly compelling, especially when 
considering the scale of expected increases in energy prices.
Outlook
Over the next few months, we anticipate seeing the first signs 
of growth in our electronic component distribution business 
and expect to be able to report an increase in our cleantech 
customer base across a number of our target market sectors. 
This will herald the next stage of our growth as we build on 
existing success in the UK and develop the same business 
model overseas, starting in the Americas where we have 
entered into a joint venture with partners based in Miami. We 
believe that the markets in North, South and Central America 
offer exciting growth potential and already we are seeing  
signs that the effectiveness of our business model is being 
recognised. It is too early to predict the timing or scale of 
future growth in this market, but we are encouraged by the 
initial indications.
Mark Robinson
Chief Executive Officer
