 Netcall expanded its market footprint during the financial year by an
ongoing acquisition of new customers at a rate similar to the previous
year. This was achieved in a very different and more challenging
market environment where a number of our customers and prospects
experienced significant changes to their businesses which in some
cases had an effect on Netcall. 
Despite these challenges the Group’s overall health improved.
Margins increased which, combined with robust cost management,
resulted in a healthy double-digit profit margin making it the second
best year in the Group’s history. As a result the business has
continued to generate significant amounts of cash thereby improving
the strength of the balance sheet. 
While maintaining its core business strategies Netcall adapted its
execution during the financial year as a response to the changing
market conditions. As a result the Group delivered a significantly
improved performance in the second half compared to the first six
months of the financial year confirming the continued demand for
Netcall’s products.
Financial results
Revenue for the financial year was £3.60 million (2007 — £4.11
million) and the share of revenue from distribution channels grew to
52% of total revenues (2007 — 46%). The revenue split between
hosted services and product sales remained even with hosted
revenues contributing 49% of total revenues at £1.78 million (2007 –
£2.00 million), and product revenues accounting for the remaining
51% at £1.82 million (2007 — £2.11 million). 
Robust cost management resulted in a 4% reduction in administrative
expenses (excluding share based charges of £0.20 million) to 
£2.64 million (2007 — £2.77 million). 
Adjusted profits (profit before share based charges and tax) for the
year of £0.71 million (2007: £0.90 million) were healthy, with the
second half showing a substantial improvement compared to the first
6 months achieving £0.43 million compared to £0.28 million and
consequently the second half year margins returned to the level of 
the previous year. 
Profit before tax was £0.51 million, (2007 — £0.77 million) including
share option charges. Following the first time recognition of a
deferred tax asset the results incorporate a one off tax credit of 
£0.56 million which has resulted in an increase in net profit for the
year to £1.07 million (2007 — £0.77 million). Accordingly earnings per
share have grown to 1.62p (2007 — 1.16p).
These results are the first reported fully adopting IFRS. Following this
adoption there has been no significant change to previously reported
results.
Cash generated from operations for the year was £0.43 million 
(2007 — £0.64 million) and the Group’s net funds increased by 24%
to £2.92 million as at 30th June 2008 (2007 — £2.36 million).
Net assets increased by 47% to £3.95 million (2007 — £2.68 million),
reflecting the underlying strength and resilience of the Group and 
its strategy. 
Chief Executive’s Review
“After the outstanding success of QueueBuster in our Nottingham sales based call
centre we are now expanding the use of QueueBuster to our customer care site
based in Sleaford. We are so delighted with the success we have already had in
such a short space of time.”
Interflora
15587 10/10/2008 Proof 6
Report and accounts 2008 03
15587NETCALL:Layout 1  10/10/08  06:59  Page 3 Review of Operations
Products
Netcall is the leading specialist in callback, auto-messaging and
contact solutions for companies of all sizes. The Group designs,
develops and supplies a range of innovative communication solutions
to organisations focusing on enhancing client businesses by: 
•
Improving operational efficiency 
•
Improving customer experience and satisfaction 
•
Increasing sales 
•
Improving employee morale 
All Netcall applications run on the Group’s Intelligent Communications
Platform (ICP), which has been built based on industry standards to
ensure full cross-platform compliance. Netcall has integrated its
solutions with all leading Automatic Call Dialing platforms, Carrier
switches, Network Routing and Computer Telephony Integration
Systems. During the financial year Netcall became a Gold member of
the Avaya developer program and also received the Cisco Technology
Development Program accreditation.
The Group’s ICP runs both on hardware at a client’s location or as a
supported service, hosted remotely and delivered as a Software as a
Service (SaaS) solution, enabling a rapid low-cost, low-risk and
flexible set-up with no capital investment. 
Netcall’s flagship product, QueueBuster, eliminates the need for
customers to be kept waiting on hold by contact centres by taking
the callers place in the queue and providing them with an automatic
call back when an agent is free. QueueBuster, delivering millions of
call backs, continued to provide excellent results for our customers
during the year by improving efficiencies, helping to drive sales and
improve customer service. During the year QueueBuster has saved
the public over 500 years of queuing.
Market
There continues to be a solid and ongoing requirement for
organisations and their contact centres to improve efficiencies and
customer service. In parallel consumers repeatedly rate waiting in call
centre queues as one of the biggest causes of customer
dissatisfaction. These are key issues that QueueBuster addresses for
the Group’s customers. 
Whilst the broader economic climate had an impact on a number of
customers and prospects, the core benefits that Netcall’s solutions
provide remain in demand resulting in the ongoing acquisition of new
customers. 
Expanded customer base 
Netcall acquired a number of new customers directly or via channel
partners during the year including Interflora and Virgin Holidays and
also expanded its footprint within its existing customer base, for
example, at Lloyds TSB. As a result the number of new customer
acquisitions remained stable compared to the previous year. However
the business was affected by reduced activity levels at some of our
customers which in turn impacted the recurring revenue stream and
delayed some purchase decisions.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
15587 10/10/2008 Proof 6
Netcall plc 04
1558
15587NETCALL:Layout 1  10/10/08  06:59  Page 4 “We looked at a number of different solutions and the QueueBuster on-demand
solution was the one that really stood out in terms of the benefits offered, and
perfectly fitted our company requirements.”
Bournemouth & West Hampshire Water
Channel partnerships
The Group’s continued focus on expanding its market reach via
distribution partners has seen the proportion of total revenues
received from channel partnerships continue to grow to 52% 
(2007 —  46%). A significant development was the announcement of
a new partnership agreement with Cable & Wireless Europe, Asia and
US to integrate a hosted platform into its existing infrastructure to
deliver Netcall’s flagship product QueueBuster as part of its product
and service portfolio. This agreement started showing initial rewards
during the second half of the year with a number of new customers
signing up as a result of this relationship.
Strategy
Netcall’s ambition remains to increase the market acceptance of its
products and to work with distribution partners to achieve broader
market reach. The Group will continue its focus on business models
which generate a high element of recurring revenue thereby improving
future revenue visibility. 
By pursuing this business model, Netcall has transformed over the
past few years from a volatile license business model to one which
focuses on a high element of recurring and visible revenue which
continues to be converted into profit and cash. 
By staying focused on the long term strategy for growth, the Board is
confident that Netcall will achieve long term success and the Group
continues to explore all avenues to generate significant value for our
shareholders in the process.
Current Trading
The uptake of Netcall’s products is continuing to expand within our
existing customer base, and we are also seeing sign up with
additional blue chip organisations. I am pleased to report that the first
quarter is ahead of the same period last year, and this combined with
our continued cash generation, healthy balance sheet and ongoing
customer wins is encouraging for the future.
I would also like to thank the staff and our partners for their continued
support and contribution.
15587 10/10/2008 Proof 6
Report and accounts 2008 05
15587NETCALL:Layout 1  10/10/08  06:59  Page 5
