 02 — APC Technology Group PLC — Annual Report and Accounts 2013
APC’s traditional electronic component distribution business 
continues to provide a relatively stable platform from which 
the Company has been able to diversify into emerging high 
growth markets. The distribution model is based upon 
investment in well qualified and experienced sales teams who 
are encouraged to focus on securing the inclusion of APC’s 
wide ranging product lines into new developments taking 
place across its long-standing customer base. APC’s 
engineering & commercial experience add value to its 
customers and suppliers by providing an effective bridge 
between the two ensuring the most appropriate components 
are selected for each new application.
Approximately 65% of APC’s distribution sales are into 
applications where component reliability is of paramount 
importance. This focuses attention on defence, aerospace, 
space, medical, transport and oil industry applications where 
the gestation period for new design-in work can be lengthy 
but where production cycles often run for many years. 
APC operate the same value added business model in less 
mission-critical applications which represent the remaining 
35% of revenues. A thorough understanding of industrial 
applications is frequently demonstrated at application specific 
engineering seminars operated by the Company. These well 
attended events underline the expertise of the sales teams 
and reinforce the concept of adding value. This has been 
recently recognised by Renesas Electronics Europe which has 
appointed APC as the lead distributor in the UK of the NLT 
range of TFT displays. 
Future Opportunities
•	 The Group expect meaningful, long-term growth to result 
from its recent appointment as the lead UK distributor of 
NLT displays.
•	 The expertise provided by the Group’s Locator team in 
obsolescence management should be increasingly valued 
by the Company’s high reliability focused customer base 
which is experiencing challenges as a result of an 
increasing number of counterfeit components making their 
way into the supply chain. 
•	 Activity over the last two years to secure an increasing 
number of design-wins seems set to provide a return as 
their customers schedule new product releases to coincide 
with improved economic conditions.
Electronic Component Distribution – 
Advanced Power Components
APC’s electronic component distribution 
business differentiates itself by focusing  
on the promotion of specialist electronic 
components by experienced technical 
sales teams focused on their individual 
market niche, a model that adds significant 
value to both customers and suppliers.
g roup At A gl Ance APC Technology Group PLC — Annual Report and Accounts 2013 — 03
Following a lengthy restructuring process the Group has 
streamlined its cleantech subsidiaries under the Minimise 
Energy brand. Revenues in the last 12 months were dominated 
by the sale of LED lighting but additional technologies are now 
being added to the product portfolio as the emphasis moves 
from being an LED lighting provider to a company offering 
energy efficiency solutions.
Key to future expansion is the technology provided by Invisible 
Systems Limited (ISL) of which APC acquired 25% in June. 
ISL has a cloud based wireless monitoring and control 
platform which can be deployed with a minimum of disruption 
to enable Minimise Energy to first monitor and then control 
energy consumption either directly or via secondary 
technologies such as LED lighting. The ISL platform also 
provides live feedback as to the effectiveness of secondary 
technologies and is the feedback mechanism on which future 
project finance packages will be based. 
The operation in the UK which has so successfully developed 
the relationship with lead customer Morrisons is expanding its 
customer base across a number of different market sectors 
and is now seeing success in efforts to generate a wider 
customer base. Initial success in each new market sector is 
expected to generate multiple new customer relationships as 
the benefits of Minimise Energy’s range of LED lighting and 
other energy efficient technologies become apparent.
Cleantech Activities – Minimise Energy
The Group’s subsidiary, Minimise Limited, has 
shown explosive growth in the last 12 months 
mainly as a result of contracts secured to 
replace traditional lighting with low energy 
LED lighting at properties owned by Wm 
Morrisons Supermarkets PLC. With an 
expanding customer base across an 
increasing number of market sectors, an 
expanding technology portfolio and 
operations established in North America the 
Company is planning for continued expansion.
Expansion into North and South America is underway 
following the creation of Minimise Energy Americas LLC,  
a 60% owned joint venture based in Miami, Florida.
Future Opportunities
•	 Continued growth for Minimise Energy in the UK as the 
customer base for LED lighting expands.
•	 Further growth as additional technologies including 
monitoring & control systems are combined with LED 
lighting to provide overall ‘energy saving solutions’.
•	 Expansion of the Minimise Energy offering over an 
increased geographical coverage starting with North  
and South America.
