 APC Technology Group PLC — Annual Report and Accounts 2013 — 05
“ The year ended 31 August 2013 
has been a period of 
transformational change and 
significant progress for the 
Group, resulting in a far stronger 
offering in our cleantech 
businesses and stability in the 
electronic components 
distribution business.”
Our product and geographic range has been expanded,  
our management team strengthened and our organisation 
structure simplified. All these initiatives have resulted in a  
60% increase in sales and good profitability for the Group. To 
reflect the Group’s strategic move into sustainable technology 
and the resultant reorganisation of the business we also 
changed the name of our company during the year to more 
closely reflect the nature of the business as a whole.
Trading
Overall sales in the year were £21,657,000 (2012: £13,644,000) 
and adjusted profit before tax (excluding exceptional items) 
was £365,000 (2012: £29,000).
Trading in energy savings and efficiency products increased 
substantially as a result of a pipeline of contracts won by the 
Group’s subsidiary Minimise Limited since acquisition. Significant 
relationships were developed with one of the foremost 
supermarket chains in the UK, Wm Morrisons Supermarkets PLC 
and other multiple site companies. In total we are pleased to 
report sales of £8,951,000 (2012: £186,000) from energy savings 
and efficiency products.
Sales in our distribution business were £12,706,000 (2012: 
£13,458,000). The reduced sales turnover was a reflection of the 
continuing tight trading conditions that have persisted in the UK 
electronics industry for a number of years. Although the market 
was difficult through the year we have begun to see signs of 
improvement going into the new year. We are especially pleased 
with a recently signed distribution agreement with Renesas 
Electronics Europe GmbH for the supply of NLT Technologies 
displays to the UK market. This new line and other new 
agreements refresh our product offering and gives us a good 
platform to grow the business as the UK economy recovers.
Structure
During the year the Group acquired the remaining shares it  
did not own in both Minimise Limited and QV Controls Limited 
(subsequently renamed Minimise Controls Limited). After the 
year-end, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 10% 
of shares in Minimise Energy Limited not previously owned by 
the Company, allowing us to adopt the name Minimise Energy 
as the branding for the cleantech side of our business. As the 
final element of our strategic restructuring, we have merged 
the activities of Minimise Limited and Minimise Energy Limited 
as part of the streamlining process.
We also acquired 25% of the share capital of Invisible Systems 
Limited, a UK-based energy monitoring and management systems 
provider, during the year. This acquisition helps ensure that our 
current offering of energy efficiency and management products  
is market leading and meets the expectations of our customers.
Following the year end we also established a joint venture 
operation in the United States, Minimise Energy Americas LLC. 
We believe this operation will enable us to address the 
significant market for smart energy saving products and 
services that exists in North and South America.
Liquidity
In June we were pleased to complete an institutional placing 
that raised £3,000,000 enabling us to complete the necessary 
acquisitions during the year. We ended the year with net cash  
of £1,048,000 (2012: Net debt £1,028,000) reflecting the fund 
raising and improved trading in the business.
Dividend
The Board has reviewed the Company’s dividend policy and 
whilst it considers it desirable to pay dividends in the long term,  
it has concluded that currently a greater return can be made to 
shareholders by investing available funds in the numerous 
opportunities that exist to grow the business. Therefore, the 
Board does not recommend a dividend for 2013 (2012: £nil).
Board of Directors
There were a number of changes to the Board during the year 
with Will David stepping down and Tessa Laws and myself 
being elected in January 2013.
Future
We are optimistic that 2014 will see continued growth in the 
Minimise Energy business. The establishment of our joint 
venture in Miami (Minimise Energy Americas) is just one of the 
ways we are opening new opportunities and new markets for 
the Group. In addition the distribution business is well placed  
to exploit the recent improvement in the UK market place.
I would like to take this opportunity to publicly acknowledge and 
thank our partners, management, staff and advisors without 
whom our success this year would not have been achievable and 
without whom 2014 would not be as we anticipate.
Leonard Seelig
Chairman
6 December 2013
cHA irm An’s 
st Atement
