 03
www.888holdingsplc.com
Chief Executive’s Review
Introduction
I am delighted that, in the ﬁrst year of my tenure as 
Chief Executive, the Group has delivered its strongest 
performance to date in our B2C line of business and a solid 
performance in B2B. This excellent performance has been 
driven by the successful development of our products, 
including the launch of Casino 50, our focus on customer 
acquisition and retention, and the continued delivery of 
superior customer service and a value for money offer.
Implicit in our strategy was the desire to improve 
margins, therefore we are delighted to have made further 
improvements in the year, particularly as we have incurred 
higher gaming duties compared to the previous year 
and we have continued to invest in our business. As we 
entered regulated markets we committed US$131 million 
to marketing spend which resulted in marketing ratio to 
revenue of 35%, slightly higher than that of last year, 31%.
Most importantly, we have delivered an adjusted EBITDA
1
 
of US$67 million, a 20% increase on last year. This 
represents an Adjusted EBITDA
1
 margin increase from 
16.8% to 17.8%. At the year end, we had US$82 million of 
cash, of which US$32 million was available for general 
corporate purposes, having during the year paid US$11 
million of retroactive duties to the Spanish government 
and settled for US$37 million the ﬁnal consideration on the 
Wink Bingo acquisition. 
Given the strong cash generation during the year the 
Board of Directors reinstated the dividend at the half year, 
declaring an interim dividend of 2.5¢ per share that was 
paid on 18 October 2012. Taking into account the strong 
performance of the business and lack of dividend in 2011 
the Board is recommending a ﬁnal dividend comprising 
4.5¢ per share (which together with the interim dividend 
equals 7.0¢ per share in accordance with our pay-out 
policy set out at the time of our 2005 ﬂotation) and an 
additional one-off 2.0¢ per share, bringing the total for the 
year to 9.0¢ per share.
2011 was about going back to basics, and 2012 has focused 
strongly on preserving and enhancing our technical edge. 
Structurally, the Group is now managed into two business 
lines, B2C and B2B, whereas B2C is further managed 
in product groups (for example, Poker/Casino) rather 
than by service areas (for example, marketing), which 
has enhanced our focus and allowed us to utilise our 
technological and analytical strength through a uniﬁed 
approach to product growth.
Combining these disciplines and bringing our analytical 
strengths to bear at all stages has led to improved 
new product development, followed up by targeted, 
personalised and data driven marketing and CRM 
campaigns, all of which in turn lead to maximising player 
lifetime value. This concentrated focus on our core strong 
analytics and marketing capabilities, has maximised their 
beneﬁts across the business. It is these fundamental 
competencies together with our exceptional product 
platform and back office capabilities that have enabled us 
to successfully compete with and surpass our competition.
1  As deﬁned in the table set out on page 8. 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
04
Building on our Strengths
Despite the evolving challenges of the market place 
in which we operate, our strategic direction remains 
constant. 
Our strategy in terms of the customer proposition is clear 
— high quality products with precision targeted marketing 
to attract higher volumes of lower spend, more casual 
gamers, all of which is supported by exceptional customer 
service.
Early in 2012, we launched Casino 50, our new casino 
front end. This is a revolutionary multi-software platform, 
delivering, compared to previously, a much more exciting 
and interactive experience to our customers. It has been 
received well by players, and we are now beginning to see 
the fruits of our labour. Our Poker business continues to 
grow, with record breaking revenues of US$88 million and 
a 31% increase in active players compared to last year. We 
remain in the top 5 in terms of global liquidity, as reported 
by PokerScout. This product group is our star performer 
and we deservedly won the highly regarded eGaming 
Review Poker Operator of the Year award in November.
Within our technology infrastructure, we have created 
an in-house games studio, designed to develop our 
own “home bred” slots games. We have launched ten of 
these slots games during the year of which Elm Street, 
with stunning graphics, was the most popular. This 
demonstrates the company’s desire to distance itself 
from other operators and provides a unique offering to 
our customers in an area in which we control all of the 
elements required for our on-going success.
The Bingo sector remains challenging and this now 
mature market has become highly competitive. However, 
we remain one of the largest networks in the UK, holding 
our own against highly aggressive competitors, and we 
will continue to drive this offering and further integrate 
the platform into the Group’s state of the art back office, 
allowing all the beneﬁts of that to ﬂow through to our 
bingo offering. In December we announced an agreement 
with Facebook to launch real-money products the ﬁrst of 
which is Bingo Appy, offering 90 ball, 75 ball and 5 line 
bingo including a wide range of slots and instant games. 
To date we are seeing strong customer interest, but it 
is too early to predict the ultimate success of this new 
market.
Sport remains an important part of our product suite 
and one which continues to offer opportunities. Targeted 
marketing has helped to increase revenue year on year and 
we have seen success in our mobile strategy, with 30% of 
revenue generated through our dedicated 888Sport app. 
We are working closely with our partners and assessing 
options through which we can provide 888Sport with a 
genuine competitive edge. A strategic review is underway 
that will ascertain the best way of fulﬁlling this aim.
During the year we have made signiﬁcant progress in 
newly regulated markets. In the summer we saw the 
opening of the Spanish market, albeit three months later 
than was planned, given the delayed introduction of the 
new regime. We had adapted our software well in advance 
of licensing, and following the retroactive duty payment 
we were granted our license on 1 June. After effectively 
and efficiently migrating customers to the regulated 
environment we quickly built market share, with our poker 
offer becoming number two in the Spanish market with 
888poker.es delivering more than 20% market share. This 
was achieved by calculated marketing investment, and 
further shows the strength of our management capabilities 
in understanding new markets, underpinned by the 
efficiency of our customer acquisition strategy.
Proving just what an opportunity regulation can provide 
for 888, the end result is that poker revenue generated 
since regulation is more than double that pre-regulation, 
even with the deduction of gaming duty. We are 
encouraged by this market, and we will invest in order to 
grow this signiﬁcant business.
Chief Executive’s Review 05
www.888holdingsplc.com
The Italian market has also proved to be successful. 
Initially launching a brand new Casino offering, designed 
speciﬁcally for Italy, in the second half of 2011 with 
cautious marketing spend, the launch achieved very 
pleasing results. The decision by the Italian regulator to 
allow slots from December 2012 has bolstered our offering 
and allowed us to introduce our unique games, alongside 
the traditional Casino products. This has resulted in player 
numbers more than doubling compared to December 2011. 
In Dragonﬁsh, we have now completed the rationalisation 
of smaller unproﬁtable licensees and hence revenue 
decreased marginally by 2%. Removing the burden of 
unproﬁtable contracts has helped us focus on our core 
strengths, concentrating our efforts on attracting large 
scale clients to our platform. In addition we have signed 
12 new bingo skins. This approach has also released the 
resources to enable us to focus on the anticipated opening 
of the US market.
We currently operate Caesars Interactive Entertainment’s 
(CIE) World Series of Poker online poker brand in the 
UK, a collaboration which received the approval of the 
Nevada Gaming Control Board and included a ﬁnding by 
the Control Board of suitability for 888. In January 2012 
we announced a deal extending our relationship with 
Caesars that will see Dragonﬁsh power a selection of CIE’s 
established and recognised poker brands including the 
“WSOP” in the US, once online gaming is permitted under 
the new regulatory regime.
This non-exclusive agreement marked the ﬁrst strand in our 
US online strategy and indicated the strong platform that 
we can use to sign with further potential US partners. Our 
objective in respect of the US is to become one of, if not the, 
largest providers of online operations and services in this 
market. We have a three part strategy, a business to business 
strategy where we are platform, software and back office 
providers, taking a revenue share; a strategic alliance where 
we partner with a supplier which allows us to reach regional 
casino outlets; and most importantly, a strong B2C offer 
where we bring all of 888’s talents, expertise and strengths 
to bear on penetrating this exciting market.
In terms of contracts signed to-date, the CIE deal is 
the traditional B2B revenue share operation where we 
supply the technology and the services with our partner 
supplying their expertise and funds on marketing. Having 
land-based partnerships will be the key to unlocking 
access to regulated US states and it is worth remembering 
that Caesars operates casinos in Nevada, New Jersey and 
California. All of these are likely to offer online gaming 
upon the potential liberalisation of the market.
In July we announced an alliance with WMS Gaming Inc., 
which is one of the world’s largest slot and games design 
operators with in excess of 250 secondary and tertiary 
casino customers. As one of the biggest suppliers of slot 
machines to hundreds of land based casinos in the US, 
this deal will enable WMS to offer an online product to all 
its customers utilising our state of the art poker platform.  
The agreement will give the Group a competitive edge and 
allow the launch of a real money offering concurrent with 
the ﬁnalisation of either Federal or State based regulation.
After the year end, we completed the last strand of 
our three part strategy, by entering into a joint venture 
agreement with global investment ﬁrm Avenue Capital 
Group, to launch and operate a comprehensive B2C 
gaming offering into the US. Avenue Capital Group has 
interests in various terrestrial casinos and entertainment 
companies making them an ideal partner for 888. The 
agreement will provide signiﬁcant investment in marketing 
to take advantage of the regulating US gaming market,  888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
06
and we are enormously excited by the opportunities. 
A number of states are currently providing positive 
indications, with New Jersey legislators passing a bill 
legalising online gaming, while the Nevada Gaming Control 
Board recommended to the Nevada Gaming Commission 
the approval of the licensing of 888 as an Interactive 
Gaming Service Provider. The Commission hearing will be 
held on 21 March 2013. 
As the ﬁrst non-US online operator to be recommended 
we are very well positioned in the US and the business 
foundations are now set. We are leveraging our existing 
infrastructure to penetrate the largest gaming market in 
the world and we are only waiting for the regulator to 
allow us to start working.
In parallel with our focus on building signiﬁcant market 
share in regulated jurisdictions we have directed resources 
into the development of our mobile offering. 2012 was the 
year that the prevalence of smartphones and tablets ﬁnally 
led to the long-awaited coming of age of mobile gaming, 
and we can expect leadership in mobile to be a signiﬁcant 
revenue and customer acquisition generator. The company 
has a devoted team concentrating on mobile applications 
and now has a comprehensive product offering across 
all major platforms, including both Apple and Android, 
tablets and smartphones. All applications are witnessing 
strong growth in usage, and we are conﬁdent that this 
medium will be earnings enhancing.
Our social gaming business has now been fully integrated 
into 888’s technological architecture, and the team is now 
working alongside our excellent product developers. It 
is clear that social networks are becoming an integrated 
part of online gaming however and, while it still remains a 
nascent industry, it is one in which we are well positioned 
to remain ahead of the curve. We will continue to review 
our product suite, and capitalise on opportunities such as 
Facebook real-money gaming and we expect to continue 
to progress in this area. 
Regulation
Regulation of online gaming continued to be a key area 
of interest to 888 during 2012, as always, presenting both 
opportunities and challenges. During 2012 we acquired 
two new online gaming licenses — in Spain and in the 
German state of Schleswig-Holstein, adding to a growing 
list of local licenses held by the group. At the same time, 
the group remains committed to obtaining local licenses 
applicable to its operations in various jurisdictions of 
choice, presenting the potential for commercial growth. 
As 2012 drew to an end, 888 was approaching the ﬁnal 
stages of the Nevada licensing process, a lengthy exercise 
commenced in 2011. On 7 March 2013, the Nevada Gaming 
Control Board recommended to the Nevada Gaming 
Commission the approval of the licensing of 888 as an 
Interactive Gaming Service Provider and in connection 
therewith the licensing of its key executives and controlling 
shareholders. The Commission hearing will be held on 
21 March 2013, and 888 is on the cusp of becoming one 
of the ﬁrst international online gaming operators to 
commence operations in a US jurisdiction under a local 
license. In February 2013, New Jersey legislators passed a 
bill legalising online gaming, allowing land-based casinos 
in the state to apply for licences to offer casino and poker. 
This is expected to be enforced by the end of the year. With 
partnerships already in place, this positions 888 well. Other 
US jurisdictions are on the brink of introducing legislation to 
allow for the licensing of online gaming within their territories, 
developments that present tremendous opportunities for 
growth.
2012 saw a list of European jurisdictions either 
Chief Executive’s Review 07
www.888holdingsplc.com
adopting new gaming laws, or being in the process 
of reforming their regulatory landscape. Though the 
European Commission has renewed its call for greater 
harmonisation between EU Member States in this area, 
regulatory regimes within the EU remain largely divergent, 
posing challenges for the Group. Naturally, the growing 
abundance of local licensing requirements is inevitably 
accompanied by the burdens of local taxation and costly 
compliance requirements. We continue to remain actively 
engaged in regulatory developments worldwide and seek 
the opportunities for growth presented by regulation while 
continuing to face the accompanying challenges. 
A notable development likely to have a particularly 
profound impact on 888 in future years is the Bill 
presented in late 2012 by the United Kingdom 
Government, aiming to bring foreign operators under the 
licensing umbrella of the UK Gambling Commission, as 
well as exposing those operators to UK Gaming Duty. We 
will continue to closely follow developments on this front 
during 2013, taking measures to minimise the adverse 
impact that UK gaming reform could have. 
Responsible Gaming
888 is dedicated to providing its customers with a 
responsible gaming environment. Hand in glove with 
our stated goal of providing our players with the most 
entertaining gaming offering experience is our ﬁrm 
commitment to help prevent compulsive usage and 
underage access of our gaming products. We have long 
been recognised as a market leader in this area, and 
continue to introduce innovative new measures to ensure 
that our products are used in a responsible way by the 
right people. More information could be found at our 
dedicated website, www.888responsible.com.
2013 Focus
We see 2013 as a year of tremendous opportunity. We will 
continue to invest in our infrastructure, our product offer 
and in regulated markets. 
We see high growth potential in Spain, where we intend to 
build on our strong position as we increase our marketing 
spend without diminishing its analytical, cost-effective, 
targeting. The introduction of live roulette and potentially 
slots will also provide growth opportunities, as witnessed 
by the introduction of slots in Italy at the end of 2012 
which provided a catalyst for further growth in this 
important market.
We see our Spanish success as the blueprint for entry into 
other newly regulating markets. In the United States, where 
we are preparing for launch following positive regulatory 
changes, we will continue to invest in our technological 
platform, the cornerstone of our offer. In addition to being 
recommended for a licence in Nevada, we have been invited 
to apply for a licence in New Jersey, where a bill legalising 
online poker and casino has been passed.
In Poker we will continue to develop the platform and 
continue to create variation in the games available to our 
customers. Casino 50 continues to evolve, and we intend to 
remain at the top of the tree in terms of customer lifetime 
value. In Bingo we will develop more skins and expand 
our offer to ensure maximum coverage is achieved. Sport 
is already undergoing a strategic review and we intend to 
work with our existing and possibly new partners to ensure 
we optimise its true potential and have the ability to expand 
our brand into new regulated markets. Social media will 
continue to be an area in which we expand, and we will 
carefully monitor the success of these ventures.
All of these projects will undoubtedly require investment, 
alongside our intention to continue to invest in our technology 
and marketing expertise. This investment together with strong 
marketing campaigns and a push into new regulated markets, 
will have a short-term impact on margin growth. We remain 
focused on our strategy and believe that any incremental 
expenditure on our core business will ensure future growth 
and improved market share for all our brands.
Despite success to date, we do not believe we have yet got 
close to reaching full potential with our mobile offering. 
There is a signiﬁcant opportunity as we increase the 
breadth and quality of our dedicated apps and roll them 
out across the app stores, while also making certain that 
the performance of our traditional products is maximised 
on whatever medium our players favour.
Outlook
We are well placed for the future and believe we have the 
right products, the right technology, and best in breed 
analytical marketing to provide sustained growth and 
increased market share. We also have a highly talented and 
dedicated workforce, and I would like to thank our staff for 
helping us achieve these excellent results. We are conﬁdent 
of delivering further value to our shareholders in the future.
Brian Mattingley 
Chief Executive Officer 
13 March 2013
