 888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
02
Chairman’s Statement
2012 has been a record year for 888. We are delighted to 
report an increase in proﬁt after tax from US$2 million in 
2011 to US$35 million in 2012. The success of our customer 
offering and targeted marketing is overcoming a backdrop 
of global economic uncertainty and helping us capitalise 
on the ever changing regulatory landscape.
We have made signiﬁcant progress in driving the business 
forward, building on the change in strategic direction 
set in train last year. I am delighted that in March, Brian 
Mattingley agreed to take the Chief Executive Officer 
position. Brian has been a member of the 888 Board 
since the IPO and has an excellent knowledge of both the 
business and the wider industry. 
Brian, supported by our senior management team has 
overseen a year in which we reinstated the dividend, 
successfully re-launched in the newly regulated Spanish 
market — quickly achieving the number 2 position — 
launched a new casino front end, expanded our mobile 
platform, and established a strong US-facing position, to 
name but a few highlights.
One of our core strengths is offering our customers 
exactly what they want, and our ability to do this has 
been demonstrably successful with growth across most 
of our business lines. Another competitive advantage is 
the quality and capabilities of our technological platform, 
which allows us to tailor our marketing to individuals and 
to target our products in an efficient manner. We have 
continued to focus on new regulatory horizons, and the 
success of our poker offering in Spain shows the beneﬁt of 
being ready for a new market opening. We are well placed 
to repeat this success as other markets regulate.
Financial Results and Dividend
We have achieved record results this year. The beneﬁts 
of continued product development and cost-effective 
customer acquisition have resulted in a signiﬁcant increase 
in the Group revenue to US$376 million, a 13% uplift (2011: 
US$331 million). Adjusted EBITDA* was US$67 million 
(2011: US$56 million). As at 31 December 2012 the Group 
had US$82 million of cash and cash equivalents and 
US$49 million liabilities to customers. 
Given the strength of our ﬁnancial performance the 
Board took the decision to restore dividend payments at 
the half year and an interim dividend of 2.5¢ per share 
was paid. Taking into account the strong performance 
of the business and lack of dividend in 2011 the Board is 
recommending a ﬁnal dividend comprising 4.5¢ per share 
(which together with the interim dividend equals 7.0¢ per
* As deﬁned in the table set out on page 8.
share in accordance with our pay-out policy set out at the 
time of our 2005 ﬂotation) and an additional one-off 2.0¢ per 
share, bringing the total for the year to 9.0¢ per.
People
The record performance that we have achieved this year 
would not be possible without our staff. Across the world, 
1,600 people strive to make our strategy come to life and 
it is their commitment, passion and ambition that results in 
the ultimate success of our business. 
Outlook
We have the right strategy and are executing it well. As 
we did with Spain we have invested in and prepared the 
platform in readiness for US entry and, following very 
positive recent regulatory movements in New Jersey and 
Nevada, we look forward to an exciting future.
Richard Kilsby 
Chairman
