 03
Chairman’s Statement
2011 was an excellent year for NetplayTV. Following the 
restructuring at the end of 2010, the year started very well, 
gathered momentum and ultimately exceeded expectations.
With the correct internal structure in 
place and costs ﬁrmly under control at 
the start of the year we were able to 
concentrate on developing the core 
revenue drivers behind the business. 
This involved investing heavily in 
marketing with a particular emphasis on 
TV advertising. This advertising proved 
increasingly successful as the year 
progressed resulting in four impressive 
quarters of KPI growth and three proﬁt 
upgrades during the year. I believe we 
have a great team of people working 
at NetplayTV and their enthusiasm and 
hard work combined with our USP of 
live TV casino has helped us deliver 
such a strong set of results. I want to 
thank all of our staff for their hard work 
this year.
In October after working closely with 
Channel 5 for two years we signed a 
new ﬁve year partnership agreement 
to continue broadcasting seven nights 
a week, thereby securing one of the 
key channels for customer acquisition 
for Supercasino.com until 2016. This 
was a milestone for the Group as it 
illustrates not only the strength of the 
SuperCasino brand, but also that the 
commercial relationship between the 
companies is creating value for both 
parties and that the brand SuperCasino 
is going from strength to strength. 
The new agreement incorporates the 
existing post midnight teleshopping 
airtime which in turn is complimented 
by a signiﬁcant amount of pre midnight 
advertising spots.
In December the Group launched 
its iPad application to add to the 
already successful iPhone application 
and the uptake so far has been very 
encouraging. We see mobile and tablet 
as one of the key growth drivers for 
the Group in 2012 and we are uniquely 
positioned through our TV presence 
to exploit the potential of this rapidly 
growing market.
I am extremely happy with the 
Company’s performance in 2011 and 
I am pleased to report that 2012 
has commenced strongly with Q1 
KPIs ahead of both Q1 2011 and 
Q4 2011. Furthermore, the Group is 
making progress with its share capital 
reorganisation, which if approved will 
create positive distributable reserves 
which will in turn facilitate the potential 
introduction of a future dividend policy. 
We are in a good position to drive 
shareholder value from our existing UK 
business whilst continuing to consider 
newly regulated market opportunities.
Clive Jones
Non-Executive Chairman 
23 April 2012
