 10 NetPlayTV Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s 
statement
2011 has been a highly successful year for the Group and  
2012 has started strongly.
*  EBITDA is a non-GAAP, company specific measure and excludes share based payment charges described in note 26 and exceptional charges 
described in note 6. Where not explicitly mentioned, EBITDA refers to EBITDA from continuing operations.
2011 REVIEW
We started the year with a solid 
management structure in place and 
a clear strategy to deliver continued 
growth in our core live TV casino 
business. I am pleased to announce 
we delivered on every element of 
this strategy which has resulted in 
strong total revenue growth of 12.4%, 
casino revenue growth of 18.6% and 
generated an EBITDA* proﬁt of £3.4m 
compared to an EBITDA loss of £2.8m, 
giving an overall EBITDA margin of 
15.4% (2010: negative 14.0%). Cash 
balances increased by £2.4m during 
the year to £7.9m and the Group made 
proﬁt after taxation of £0.6m (2010: loss 
after taxation of £13.7m).
During the ﬁrst half of the year we 
focused on improving the live product 
offering to enable us to extract 
maximum player acquisitions from our 
existing TV teleshopping post midnight 
airtime on Channel 5 and ITV1. This 
strategy proved to be successful and 
the results were clearly demonstrated 
by the interim results posting both 
a very healthy EBITDA of £1.7m and 
positive cash ﬂow of £0.5m. 
The second half of the year was 
mostly about continued product 
development whilst also looking to 
new channels for customer acquisition. 
After a successful trial advertising 
campaign on pre midnight airtime 
across multiple terrestrial and digital 
channels the Group increased its TV 
advertising expenditure signiﬁcantly 
from July onwards. By leveraging our 
strong broadcaster relationships we 
were able to optimise our advertising 
spend and maximise acquisition of 
players by linking the adverts with the 
existing post midnight airtime on both 
Channel 5 and ITV1. The beneﬁt of this 
increased advertisement spend can be 
seen in strong H2 revenue growth of 
10.3% compared with H1 and resultant 
EBITDA of £1.7m and an increase in cash 
ﬂow of £1.9m.
We spent a lot of time during the year 
working closely with our broadcast 
partners looking at ways to improve 
efﬁciency of TV as a medium for 
acquiring new customers and it was 
a real endorsement of our live TV 
casino product to sign a new ﬁve year 
deal with Channel 5 in October. In a 
market that is highly competitive for 
new customer acquisitions this puts the 
Group in a very strong position knowing 
it has secured one of its main marketing 
channels for the next ﬁve years. 
It has also been a year in which the 
mobile industry has seen huge growth 
in the sale of smart phones and 
NetplayTV has positioned itself to 
ensure it takes maximum advantage 
of this exponential growth and 
the resultant changes in consumer 
behaviour when interacting with 
smartphones and tablets while watching 
TV. 
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK
2012 has started strongly with Q1 
new depositing customer acquisitions 
up 69.9% year on year and 34.3% 
quarter on quarter with active 
depositing players up 43.9% and 23.0% 
respectively. This resulted in average 
daily casino revenue growth of 20.3% 
year on year and 8.5% quarter on 
quarter. 
Since the year end we disposed of our 
UK Bingo business allowing the Group 
Casino revenue 
growth 
18.6
%
Cash and cash 
equivalents
£7.9m 11
to focus on the core live TV casino 
business where the marketing strategy 
is paying off and yielding much higher 
returns on investment.
The Group launched its Supercasino.
com iPad application in December 2011 
and in March 2012 launched iPhone 
and iPad for Jackpot247.com. Both 
brands have beneﬁted from this launch 
and we expect to see strong quarter 
on quarter growth from customers 
accessing our brands via mobile and 
tablet while we continue to invest in 
this area of product development and 
take advantage of our unique position 
of acquiring customers watching TV 
directly into the smartphone and tablet 
applications.
The Group have started the process of 
a capital reduction to create positive 
distributable reserves. The special 
resolution was passed at an EGM on 
3 April 2012 and the court hearing to 
conﬁrm the capital reduction will take 
place on 2 May 2012. If approved, this 
will give the board greater ﬂexibility 
when considering its future dividend 
policy.
We are conﬁdent the Group has strong 
growth opportunities in the UK and 
can continue to take market share. 
Whilst driving growth in the business 
is a key focus of the Board we are at 
the same time keeping a close eye on 
the European markets that are going 
through a process of regulation. We will 
look for broadcast partners in markets 
where we can leverage our existing 
ﬁxed cost base and where the tax 
rates makes sense to build long term 
shareholder value.
We are excited about 2012 and are 
looking forward to building further on 
the positive momentum and successful 
results of 2011.
Charles Butler 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
23 April 2012
