 04
NetPlayTV plc
Strategic report
“ The 2013 results  
show that the Group 
has now firmly 
established itself  
and is now a well-
positioned and 
integrated business.”
Chairman’s 
statement
While TV is core to our business, we believe it is important to diversify 
our business: We have substantially increased marketing and 
customer recruitment from pure online digital marketing initiatives, and 
continue to evaluate complimentary M&A opportunities. At the end of 
the year we purchased the Vernons.com e-gaming business from 
Sportech plc which brought a large database of customers and 
additional product verticals in bingo and sportsbook. We are currently 
applying our proven marketing strategy and I am confident that this 
will provide further opportunities to grow the business.
People
The senior management team has been strengthened for the next 
phase of growth with a number of new roles.
 
Akshay Kumar was appointed as Group Finance Director. Akshay 
served as Group Financial Controller from January 2011 and brings 
considerable strategic and financial input to the Board.
Bjarke Larsen has been made Chief Operating Officer. Bjarke has 
been with the Group since 2007 and is responsible for the day to day 
running of the gaming operations.
The Group also created a new role in 2014 to head up digital marketing 
to further build upon the positive traction gained in 2013, in expanding 
customer recruitment opportunities.
Every member of the NetPlayTV team has contributed to the Group’s 
success during 2013 and I would like to thank them all for their hard 
work and the contribution they have made.
Results overview
NetPlayTV has delivered a record set of 2013 results, with net revenue 
increasing 31% to £28.5m and EBITDA increasing 21% to £5.2m.
The Group has no debt and cash generation continues to be strong 
with the year-end balance increasing £1.6m from £12.3m to £13.9m. 
This is after the dividend payments of £1.2m and the £3.0m acquisition 
of Vernons.com business from existing cash balances.
Looking ahead
The 2013 results show that the Group has now firmly established  
itself and is now a well-positioned and integrated business. 2014 has 
started with a strong increase in the core KPIs that drive the growth  
of the business and I am confident that we will continue to improve 
performance year on year. 
Dividend
During the year the Board announced an interim dividend of  
0.18 pence per share and is proposing a final dividend of 0.32 pence 
per share, subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 29 May 2014, bringing the full year 
dividend to 0.50 pence per share and an increase of 33% on 2013. 
The dividend is payable on 19 June 2014 for shareholders on the 
register on 23 May 2014.
Clive Jones
Non-Executive Chairman
7 April 2014
Dear Fellow Shareholder,
It is a pleasure to report on a very strong set of results for NetPlayTV 
plc for 2013.
Strategy
NetPlayTV’s strategy remained focused on providing our customers 
with the best true multi-channel live gaming experience in the industry 
across mobile, web and TV through acquisition and organic growth. 
The strategy has proved successful and has delivered impressive 
results in 2013 with profit before tax increasing by 33% to £4.2m.
We have continued to develop our relationships with key TV 
broadcasters and signed a new three-year agreement with ITV in  
April to extend the number of nights from four to six per week. In the 
summer of 2013 we entered into our first TV show sponsorship, with 
the SuperCasino brand as headline sponsor for Big Brother and 
Celebrity Big Brother. This was a significant success, and was 
followed up in January 2014 with the sponsorship of Celebrity Big 
Brother, which had the highest viewer numbers since Channel 5  
first produced this show.
Clive Jones
Non-Executive Chairman
