 Chairman’s Statement
The significant changes at API over the last 18 months
have led to a much leaner and more competitive business.
API Group plc  
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
2
This Annual Report covers the 18 months to 31 March 2008, reflecting
the change in the year end from the previous date of 30 September.  The
period under review was a difficult and challenging one for API although
the Board is pleased with the progress that the Group has made since the
interim results at the end of September 2007.  Specifically, during the
last six months we have strengthened the management team, improved
our financial position and reduced the cost base which the Group is
carrying into the new financial year. 
As previously announced, our shareholders overwhelmingly supported
the Open Offer which raised net proceeds of £7.2m in January 2008 in
order to strengthen the Company’s balance sheet.  The raising of new
equity occurred simultaneously with the renegotiation of the Group’s
main lending facility and the combined re-financing package provides
adequate working capital for the Group’s foreseeable requirements and
sufficient flexibility to support a turnaround in financial performance.
Also in January 2008, the admission of the Company’s shares to AIM will
enable the Group to maintain a cost of compliance which is more
appropriate to its current size and resources.  
Results summary
Sales from continuing operations for the 18 months ended 31 March 2008
were £143.8m.  Sales for the 12 months to 31 March 2008 were £93.4m,
down 7.8% on the prior year, reflecting contract losses in Laminates, weak
demand in the US and operational difficulties in China, partially offset by
steady growth in our European Foils and Holographics businesses.    
Operating profit before exceptional items was £0.4m for both the 18
months and 12 months ended 31 March 2008 compared with £1.0m for
the 12 months to 31 March 2007.  On year-to-year comparatives, the
improvement in trading in Europe and reduced central costs were offset by
declines in the US and Asia Pacific and especially disruption in China
associated with the relocation to the new factory. 
After two loss-making six month periods at the operating level, the last
half year has seen a return to overall profitability due to a much improved
financial performance in Europe, reduced overhead costs and improved
productivity partly countered by lower sales in the US and stock write-
downs, costs and disruption caused by the factory relocation in China.    
After charging exceptional items of £3.4m and net finance costs of £4.1m,
the loss before tax for continuing operations for the 18 months to 31
March 2008 was £7.1m (loss of £1.8m in year to 30 September 2006).
Exceptional items for the period included restructuring expenses of £2.0m
and a non-cash asset impairment charge of £1.9m relating to a suspended
IT project.  The basic loss per share from continuing operations for the 18
month period was 16.7p per share.
Net borrowings at 31 March 2008 were £17.1m representing gearing of
62%.  Compared to the position at the last interim results in September
2007, net borrowings were down £5.9m from a peak of £23.0m and
gearing of 116%.  The improvement in net borrowings primarily reflects
the net receipt of £7.2m from the Open Offer. 
Following the relocation of the Group’ s operations in Shanghai to their new
site on the outskirts of the city, provisional agreement has been reached
with a branch of the local government to sell the vacated property.  Net
proceeds will initially be used to repay loans raised to finance the new factory
investment project and return the Chinese business to a debt-free position.
Dividend
In view of the continuing need to reduce debt and reinvest in the
business, the Board is not recommending the payment of a dividend.   
Board
The Board was strengthened by the appointment of Andrew T urner as Group
Chief Executive with effect from 15 October 2007.  After leading the Group’ s API Group plc  
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
3
re-financing, Andrew has already made significant progress in reducing
corporate and operating costs and driving performance improvement.  
Andrew Robertson resigned as Group Finance Director on 20 March 2008
and recruitment of a replacement is underway.  In the interim period, the
Group is benefitting from the services of a well-qualified acting Chief
Financial Officer, Richard Scully.  
On 30 April 2008, Brian Birkenhead and Martin O’Connell stepped down
as Non-Executive Directors in line with a decision to reduce the size of the
Board.  Brian and Martin have served the Board with distinction since
their appointments and the Board would like to express its thanks for the
significant contributions which they have made and to wish them well for
the future.
Going forward, the composition of the Board will be more appropriate
for a company of API’s size and resources, whilst allowing us to maintain
our commitment to high standards of corporate governance.
Employees, customers and suppliers
After the challenges of the past 18 months, API’s employees have
renewed their focus on performance and results.  Their hard work and
commitment is evident in the recent progress we have made in our
businesses.  On behalf of the Board and shareholders, I would like to
thank them for their continuing contribution.  
The Board would also like to convey its appreciation to API’s customers
and suppliers, who have remained loyal trading partners through recent
difficult times. 
Outlook
The successful Open Offer and renegotiated banking facilities have restored
the Group’ s liquidity and strengthened the balance sheet.  We expect to make
further progress in improving gearing in the coming 12 months through
strong cash generation from the businesses and disposal of surplus assets.  
General demand for the Group’ s products remains good and, outside of the
US, there are no signs yet of an adverse impact from macro economic factors.
Whilst there is much work to be done in re-stabilising our operation in China
after the relocation to its new facility, the majority of our businesses are
carrying positive momentum into the new financial year .  The recent overhead
reduction programme has lowered the cost base by £2.4m on an annualised
basis and ongoing performance improvement initiatives are expected to
deliver further benefits. 
Overall, the significant changes to the Group over the last 18 months, and
especially in the last half year, have led to a much leaner and more
competitive business.  The Board believes the Group will continue to make
progress and is well placed to deliver improved returns to shareholders. 
Richard Wright
Non-Executive Chairman
