 Chief Executive’s Review
API Group plc  
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
5
Financing 
The re-financing which was completed in January 2008 has re-
established the cash and covenant headroom which management
needs to operate the business, as well as significantly reducing the
overall level of Group debt.   Debt will reduce further in 2008/09 when
consideration is received from the sale of the Group’s surplus land asset
in Shanghai, China. 
Cost reduction
In November 2007, the management team launched an overhead cost
reduction programme with an initial savings target of £1m per annum.
The programme has now been concluded with the achievement of
annualised savings of approximately £2.4m.
A review of centrally-controlled costs, including Group functions, shared
service costs and central initiatives billed to operating units, yielded savings
of approximately £1.5m per annum, the majority effective from January
2008 with the balance completing progressively during the remainder of
the first quarter of 2008.  In addition, streamlining of our UK operations
has yielded a reduction of 24 people from our indirect labour headcount and
a further 9 staff have been transferred from indirect to direct labour to
provide additional production capacity.  The saving in overhead costs
associated with these changes is approximately £0.9m per annum, effective
April 2008.  Total restructuring costs in relation to the November 2007
programme amounted to £1.2m out of total restructuring costs of £2.0m
for the 18 month period. 
Group results
Group sales for the 18 months to 31 March 2008 were £143.8m and
operating profit before exceptional items was £0.4m.  On a 12 month
comparative basis to 31 March, Group sales reduced by 7.8% to £93.4m
(6.8% reduction at constant exchange rates). This decline was due
primarily to contract losses in the European Laminates business at the
end of the prior year and lower sales from operations in the US and
China.  Operating profit for the 12 months was down £0.6m to £0.4m
after a doubling of profits in Europe to £2.0m and a £0.6m reduction in
central costs were offset by declines in Asia Pacific and the US.  The last
six months were particularly strong in Europe although the gains were
partly offset by lower profitability in China and a particularly weak period
of trading in the US.  The last six month’s operating profit before
exceptionals was £0.6m compared to a loss of £0.2m in the previous
half year.
Good progress has been made in the last six months in
addressing the Group’s financial problems, streamlining the
business and starting to turn around the performance of our
operations in Europe.  
Europe
External sales from our European operations were £95.8m for the 18
month period with an operating profit before exceptional items of
£2.5m.  In the year to 31 March 2008, European operating profits
increased by £1.0m compared to the prior year to £2.0m on sales down
4.3% to £62.6m.  On 12 month comparatives, Foils and Holographics
grew by a combined 11% and operating profit advanced 13% despite
significant operational problems in Holographics in the first half of the
year.  Volume growth was driven by advances in security holographics
and by sales from our Continental distribution units, including the
newly-established operation in Italy.  Laminates returned to profit
despite a 15% fall in sales, responding to contract losses at the
beginning of 2007 with a deep restructuring programme and
significant cost and efficiency gains.  The major part of the
improvement in performance in Europe occurred in the last three
months aided by a strong recovery in Holographics, a significant new
product line developed between our Laminates and Holographics
businesses and tighter control of costs.  
North America
US sales for the 18 months were £33.3m with operating profit before
exceptional items of £1.6m.  On a 12 month basis US sales declined by 14%
and operating profit declined by 44% against strong prior year
comparatives.  The impact of exchange rates was more pronounced in the
US than other regions and on a constant currency basis sales and operating
profit declined by 9% and 40% respectively year on year.  The last six
months were particularly difficult as the businesses suffered the effects of
certain customers in the greeting card sector moving manufacturing to the
Far East and a general slow down in market activity.  
Asia Pacific
18 months sales in Asia Pacific were £14.7m with an operating loss
before exceptional items of £0.3m.  Results in Asia Pacific suffered from
general disruption to trading associated with the relocation project in
China.  By the end of April 2008, relocation of the China foils business
to its new 300,000 square foot facility in the Jiading industrial zone of
Shanghai was substantially complete and management was focusing on
re-stabilising production and restoring normal service levels to customers.
Results in the last 6 months in China were disproportionally impacted by
adjustments arising from a thorough balance sheet review. Underlying
profitability also declined due to the impact on export margins of
exchange rates and the new VAT regime, general cost inflation and
competitive conditions in the home market.
