 23124.04   25 March 2014 6:24 AM   Proof 11
www.888holdingsplc.com www.888holdingsplc.com
  
“A record-breaking year for 888.”
Brian Mattingley Chief Executive Officer
2013 Overview 
2013 was a very busy but also exceptionally rewarding year 
for 888. I am delighted to report that we have delivered 
record-breaking revenue; increased our profitability; remained 
highly cash generative and delivered greater returns to our 
shareholders through a 56% increase to the dividend. 
Our operational achievements in 2013 are equally impressive. 
We continued to deliver product innovation, ensuring that our 
customers are provided with the most enjoyable games in the 
safest possible environment. We made further developments 
to our industry-leading ‘smart marketing’ so that we are able 
to attract more players to the 888 brand and increase their 
life time value. We delivered excellent progress in our core 
markets, continued to develop our offering in Italy and built 
on momentum in Spain where we have quickly developed a 
leading market position. We delivered another very strong 
performance in Casino and made further market share gains 
in Poker, advancing to number two in the PokerScout global 
rankings at the year end. 
All of this was achieved whilst devoting significant energy 
and resources to preparing 888 for launch in the US market. 
I am incredibly proud to say that 888 is the only operator 
currently present in all three regulated states as we execute 
our strategy in what is potentially the largest online gaming 
market globally. This remarkable achievement is testament to 
the strength of our product, technology and marketing but 
also, and most crucially, the hard work, dedication and talent 
of our team. I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
each of them for their fantastic efforts during the year.
I am delighted with 888’s achievements in 2013 and look 
forward to the year ahead with continued confidence. 
Market Overview
The online gaming market is dynamic and fast-growing. 
Growth over the coming years will continue to be driven by 
a combination of customers responding to innovative games 
that deliver a richer entertainment experience, the growing 
use of mobile devices that improve accessibility, increased 
confidence in secure low-cost payment mechanisms and an 
expanding customer demographic, partly driven by regulatory 
trends that are opening up more markets to online gaming.
It is forecast that the value of the global online gaming market 
will be approximately €31.5 billion by 2015, representing a 
CAGR of more than 9% from 2012*. This does not take account 
of the additional opportunities being opened up in the United 
States, which represents a potentially massive opportunity 
for the industry. Nevada, Delaware and New Jersey were 
regulated by the end of 2013 and other States are expected to 
make significant progress towards regulation this coming year. 
As regulation continues, analysts predict that the US could 
become the largest online gaming market in the world.
In more mature markets such as the United Kingdom,  
we anticipate that there will be further consolidation  
given the advantages of scale, brand and technology 
that larger operators can employ in a more competitive 
environment. This trend will be reinforced by the planned 
introduction of a Point of Consumption Tax in the UK, due to 
take effect from December 2014. 
Online mobile gaming (on portable devices such as tablets 
and smart-phones) is growing strongly reflecting consumers’ 
increasing comfort using their mobile phones and tablets for 
a wide range of products and services including banking and 
shopping.  Mobile devices will account for a much greater 
proportion of revenue as customers complement or replace 
their PC-based experience.
Our Strategy
888 is one of the world’s most popular online gaming 
entertainment and solutions providers. We have been at the 
forefront of the industry for more than 15 years by providing 
customers with market leading products that are localised to 
enable players to enjoy the games they want, in the languages 
they speak, in a safe and secure environment. 
The Group is structured into two business lines: B2C, with our 
market leading 888 brands and B2B, conducted as Dragonfish 
business. This structure allows the Group to leverage its 
technological, product, marketing and analytical strengths 
across B2C and B2B. This maximises their benefits and allows 
888 to compete successfully with and surpass our competition 
in both established and newer markets. 
*  Value of online gaming market in terms of gross win.  
Source: H2 Gambling Capital 2014
Chief Executive’s Review
Stock Code: 888
03
www.888holdingsplc.com Strategic Report 23124.04   25 March 2014 6:24 AM   Proof 11
There are clear opportunities in our global markets. We are 
well placed to deliver growth across all areas of our business, 
generating value for our shareholders as the well-established 
trend towards more international regulation continues and 
new technologies evolve. Our strategy to achieve this is made 
up of five key pillars:  
Growth and Development Of Our Core Products
We are focused on the growth and development of our core 
product groups which are Casino, Poker, Bingo and, to a lesser 
extent, Sport, where we work with a partner. These products 
are delivered via our B2C offering under 888’s own brands 
and to our B2B clients, through Dragonfish. 
‘Best-In-Class’ B2C Offer
Our B2C offering remains our core area and the bedrock of 
the success of the business. We continue to invest in and 
focus on ensuring that we deliver an unsurpassed customer 
experience by developing best-in-class products, maintaining 
excellence in customer service and ensuring we deliver a real 
value-for-money proposition to our customers. This together 
with our advanced modeling and analytics competencies that 
underpin our product development and CRM functions, help 
us achieve our objectives: to increase customer numbers, 
further develop brand loyalty and enhance customer lifetime 
value. 
Partner Of Choice through Dragonfish – Our B2B Offer
Dragonfish is 888’s B2B arm which offers clients best in class 
Total Gaming Services solutions that are tested vigorously to 
meet the regulatory requirements of the different jurisdictions 
where they are delivered. The quality of our offering, driven 
by our continuous investment in developing leading gaming 
platforms, means that we are fast establishing ourselves as 
the partner of choice in both regulated and newly regulating 
markets. This has been evidenced by the key strategic deals 
we have signed in 2013 alongside the deal we signed with 
Caesars Interactive Entertainment in 2012 enabling 888 to 
become the only online gaming operator with a presence in all 
three regulated US states.  
Driving Margin Growth through Operational Efficiencies
We remain focused on improving our margins by maximising 
operational efficiencies and driving volume. 2013 saw 
us continue to deliver progress in this area with further 
operational efficiencies driven across the business resulting in 
our Adjusted EBITDA margin improving to 18.9% (2012: 17.8%).
Expansion in Regulated Markets
We are focused on developing our presence in locally 
regulated markets. A key advantage of having our own 
technology, product development, marketing, analytics and 
CRM teams working closely together, is that it allows us to 
control the key drivers for our success. This ensures that we 
have the agility and skills to successfully and efficiently launch 
in newly regulated markets.
2013 has seen us build further momentum in the European 
markets of the UK, Spain and Italy and we are delighted 
with the progress we have continued to make, building 
strong market positions, especially in Spain. We classify the 
regulation of markets into three categories:
Chief Executive’s Review
04
888 Holdings plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 23124.04   25 March 2014 6:24 AM   Proof 11
Developmental – These are Jurisdictions where there is a 
strong indication that at some time in the near future the 
market will open. Here we talk to local industry participants 
with a view to forming partnerships to jointly explore 
opportunities. The US continues to be a primary focus 
for us and we believe our strong position in those states 
already regulated, combined with our focused strategy 
and established partnerships, position us well to take full 
advantage of the opportunities as regulation develops.   
Formational – These are markets where governments have 
announced regulation and are working towards a framework. 
Here we decide on a trading strategy, start dialogue with 
local partners either for B2C or B2B tie ups, and engage with 
regulators and governments to assist in shaping the industry 
framework. 
Implementational – These are markets where regulation has 
been introduced and we have already commenced trading. 
In 2013, we made excellent further progress and built strong 
positions in both Spain and Italy, both of which have recently 
regulated. In the second half of 2013, we commenced 
operations in Nevada, Delaware and New Jersey in the US and 
have made good progress at this early stage.
US Development – Strategy and Current Alliances
The US market is a demanding environment with strict 
regulatory requirements that vary from state to state, however 
the opportunities are potentially vast.
Our successful launch in the regulated US market to date is 
testament to our product, technology and marketing as well 
as the hard work, dedication and talent of our team who have 
been able to meet the complex regulatory requirements in 
each state to pressing deadlines. We have developed close 
working relationships with the various regulatory bodies in 
the US and these relationships, along with the experience 
and skills we have developed to date, mean that we are well 
positioned to exploit the US opportunity as further states 
open up to online gaming. 
In March 2013, 888 completed a major step in its US strategy 
by entering into a joint venture agreement with global 
investment firm Avenue Capital Group through one of its 
affiliates, to form AAPN Holdings LLC. AAPN Holdings was 
formed for the purposes of collaborating and capitalising on 
888’s and Avenue’s respective strengths and competencies 
in order to carry out legalised Internet based gambling 
operations in the United States. Pursuant to the agreement, 
Avenue committed to finance AAPN and its affiliates, while 
888 committed to provide its operational expertise, services 
and software.  In November 2013, one of 888’s subsidiaries 
received an authorization from the regulators in the State 
of New Jersey that enabled it to begin provision of Internet 
based gambling services in New Jersey, branded with the 
888Poker and 888Casino brands, under the authority of the 
regulatory license issued to Caesars Interactive Entertainment.
Our joint venture agreement crucially allows our US 
operations to make a positive contribution to Group 
revenue from the moment we launched, limiting our capital 
requirements and giving 888 the flexibility and financial 
capability to launch in more markets globally as they regulate. 
Stock Code: 888
05
www.888holdingsplc.com Strategic Report
