 Last year I wrote that there was no substitute 
for doing great work. I also referenced the growing 
role digital communications was playing in the 
marketing world. In the last 1 2 months, digital 
has become the focus of all forms of marketing 
as companies grapple with the shift away from 
traditional media towards social networks, social 
media and the growing consumption of web-based 
content from both traditional and completely new 
sources. This is a shift that creates a great opportunity 
for an agency group like ours. It is forcing brands 
to completely rethink the way they tackle their 
marketing. In the past, brands have ‘controlled’ their 
messaging and brand positioning through a series 
of controlled events, such as placed advertising, 
press conferences and product placement. Today, 
consumers are starting their own conversations 
about products and brands on places such as 
Facebook or on vertical social networks through 
Ning or Grouply. As a result, brands now have 
to fi gure out how to shape a conversation they 
didn’t start and can’t control. These are, in short, 
exciting times.
Digital from every angle
Against this backdrop of change, the agency world 
has had to cope with global economic uncertainty, 
making the bets we have had to take feel all the 
more challenging. I’m pleased to report that as a 
Group our results show that we are already seeing 
returns on the investments made in digital, and I am 
excited to see the doors that digital is starting to 
open for our business. We are approaching digital 
from every angle. We are embedding digital thinking 
and products into our traditional services but we 
have also created a specialist digital agency to off er 
advanced digital services to all the Group’s clients. 
This new agency is called, appropriately, Beyond, and 
it has offi  ces in London, San Francisco and New York. 
It brings together traditional web developers, 
graphic designers, analysts, search specialists and 
PR consultants in the creation of a set of services that 
are closer to digital advertising than PR in the way 
they look, but fully embrace the infl uence model at 
the core of public relations. This may be why it has 
already secured clients that include Cisco, Virgin 
America, Google and Hilton Hotels.
More than just technology
When the dot com bubble burst in 2001, we were 
a technology specialist group. Today, we derive a 
quarter of our revenues from clients that include 
Unilever, Boots, Hershey's and, most recently, Dyson 
(and no, I’m not related). In the next few years, we will 
look to invest in the corporate PR and healthcare 
arena, further diversifying our client-base, while still 
remaining highly specialised in the services we off er 
these customers. These moves, coupled with the 
continued expansion of the technology industry, 
ensure that there is no reason why our business 
should stop expanding.
Chief Executive Offi  cer’s review
73 2
Number of clients 
(2009: 626)
854
Average number of staff 
(2009: 847)
48
Offi  ces worldwide 
(2009: 43)
See pages 4-5 for 
more on our brands.
             p
08
Next Fifteen Communications Group plc
Annual Report 2010
13938_R&A10_p01-29.indd   08 13938_R&A10_p01-29.indd   08 16/11/2010   12:14 16/11/2010   12:14 Global hasn’t gone away
While our industry has been tackling digital, it can’t 
ignore the importance of emerging markets and
the desire of large companies to manage their 
communications globally. These shifts are 
understandable. First, the importance of markets 
such as China and India cannot be overstated right 
now. Second, the shift towards the internet being 
the new platform for communications is breaking 
down traditional geographic borders, particularly in 
developed countries. This is why we have continued 
to invest in emerging markets with the acquisitions 
of Upstream Asia that extends our Bite business 
into the Asia Pacifi c region, and of OneXeno, which 
adds to our ability to provide digital services in 
those markets.
More growth to come
While there is still some uncertainty around the 
global economy, I am confi dent that our business 
will deliver robust growth in the coming year. 
The investments of the last few years are already 
providing revenue growth and that will only 
continue, which should again lead to record results 
in the year to 31 July 201 1. To be in this position is 
testament to the quality of the businesses that make 
up the Group and the decisions they’ve made. 
I’m pleased to say that all of our businesses are set 
to expand, which should only be good news for 
our shareholders. 
To end this review, I would like to thank all the 
people who make up Next Fifteen for their eff orts 
in the last year to deliver the strong recovery we 
achieved. I would also like to thank you as 
shareholders for your continued support. 
We have ambitious plans for the Group which 
we hope you will all be a part of.
“ In the last 1 2 
months, digital 
has become the 
focus of all forms 
of marketing as 
companies grapple 
with the shift away 
from traditional 
media”
Tim Dyson
Chief Executive Offi  cer 
12 November 2010
Follow Tim on Twitter
@timdyson
Overview
Business review
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
09
Next Fifteen Communications Group plc
Annual Report 2010
13938_R&A10_p01-29.indd   09 13938_R&A10_p01-29.indd   09 16/11/2010   12:14 16/11/2010   12:14
