 06
API Group plc Annual Report 2014
OVERVIEW 
ChAIRmAN’S STATEmENT
•	 Further progress on the overall financial 
strength of the Group.
•	 Re-introduction of the dividend after 
a break of more than 10 years.
•	 Continued investment in operational 
capabilities and performance.
Introduction
I am pleased to report that the year to March 2014 was 
another solid year for the Group and whilst there was a 
modest fall in operating results, the overall financial strength 
of the Group improved further and our operations have 
benefitted from another year of strong capital investment. 
Shareholders’ funds increased by 15% and the year saw 
the achievement of two significant milestones; no net 
debt at the year-end for the first time in 15 years and the 
reintroduction of a dividend after a break of more than 
10 years.
Strategic Report
During this last financial year, new regulations were 
issued by the UK Government on the content and 
structure of the narrative to be included in annual reports. 
These requirements affect all companies, with additional 
requirements for those which are fully listed. As an AIM 
company, we have taken steps to reorganise and enhance 
our commentary in order to meet the objectives of the new 
regulations. The new Strategic Report includes what was 
previously covered under the Business Review in addition 
to a new section on Strategy, Objectives, KPIs and the 
Business Model.
Board and governance
The Board and the composition of its Committees 
have remained unchanged throughout the year. 
Since the end of the financial year, the Group’s largest 
shareholder, Steel Partners, have advised the Board that 
Luke Wiseman no longer acts as their nominee director. 
Steel Partners have not indicated that they intend to 
request a replacement nominee director and the Board 
has no reason to believe that they intend to do so. In the 
meantime, the Board continues to place a high value on 
Mr Wiseman’s contribution and he has agreed to continue as 
a non-executive director for the foreseeable future. Bearing 
in mind the long service of a number of Directors, it has 
been agreed that the Head of the Nominations Committee, 
Mr Batzer, will undertake a review of the Board’s 
composition by the end of this calendar year, with a view to 
formulating a long term plan for succession. Details of the 
Group’s governance and the roles and responsibilities of the 
Board and its committees are included in the Governance 
and Remuneration section on pages 34 to 44. 
dividend
Following payment of the interim dividend in January, the 
Board is pleased to propose a final dividend of 1.3p per 
share. The total, full-year dividend of 2.0p will be put to 
shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting 
on 15 July 2014 and subject to this approval, it is our 
intention that the final dividend will be paid on 1 August 
to shareholders on the register as at 11 July, with an 
ex-dividend date of Wednesday 9 July.
Our people
My thanks go to all five hundred and twenty API employees 
in the various business units and the central team for 
their contribution to another year of solid progress for 
the Group. 
Conclusion
Following the distraction and uncertainty of the 2013 sale 
process, this year has allowed the Group’s management to 
focus on a number of operational improvement and capital 
investment initiatives. As well as realising the benefits from 
those actions, additional projects are already underway 
aimed at further enhancing capabilities and performance. 
The Board therefore remains confident in the Group’s 
prospects and the opportunity to create further value 
for shareholders. 
Richard C Wright
Chairman
3 June 2014
