 6 Next Fifteen Communications Group plc Annual Report 2009
Chairman’ s statement
Next Fifteen Communications Group plc 
(‘Next Fifteen’ or ‘the Group’), the global 
public relations consultancy group, is 
pleased to report its results for the year 
to 31 July 2009. The Group, like many 
businesses has been impacted by the 
global economic downturn. Despite  
this the Group has reported revenues  
up 3.6% to £65.4m (2008: £63.1m). 
Profitability was more sensitive to the 
economic slowdown with profit before 
tax down to £3.2m (2008: £5.5m), but the 
adjusted profit was £5.2m (2008: £6.6m) 
(see note 5). Earnings per share was 
similarly impacted at 3.67p (2008: 7 .08p), 
with the adjusted basic earnings per 
share being 6.48p (2008: 8.62p) (see  
note 10). The Group continues to have a 
strong balance sheet, ending the year 
with net funds of £1.8m (2008: £3.4m) 
(see note 20), achieved after making 
£4.5m of acquisition-related payments.  
In view of this and the improving outlook 
overall, the Board has proposed a final 
dividend of 1.25p per share, which 
maintains the total dividend for the year 
at 1.7p.
The Group’s results were significantly 
impacted by the currency contracts 
placed before the start of the year,  
which matured during the year.  
These protection contracts effectively 
locked the Group into what became 
unfavourable rates after sterling fell 
sharply against both the US dollar and 
euro. These maturing contracts created 
an additional loss of £1.7m above their 
fair value at the beginning of the year, 
which is included in other operating 
charges within head office costs  
but not shown as an adjustment to  
profit (note 5). 
Corporate activity
Just after the year end the Group 
announced the acquisition of New York-
based consumer agency M Booth and in 
recent weeks it has also announced the 
acquisition of the Asian PR assets of  
AIM-listed Upstream Marketing and 
Communications Inc., which will give  
the Group’s Bite business a strong Asia 
Pacific operation, to complement its 
existing US and European operations. 
The Group also announced its  
purchase of a further 30% stake in 463 
Communications LLC, a US-based policy 
communication consultancy, in which  
it already has a 40% interest. Lastly the 
Group also announces that it intends  
to open a digital communications 
agency in the next three months.  
Two executives from Bite are moving 
over to lead this venture.
Cost control 
During the year the Group made  
some significant headcount reductions 
following the slowdown in most of its 
markets. Following a strategic review, 
decisions were also taken to merge 
London-based Inferno into Bite and to 
close the Text 100 offices in Seattle and 
Dublin. These actions resulted in one-
time charges of £1.95m, of which £0.4m 
related to the cost of surplus office space. 
Setting these aside, the Group continued 
to keep staff costs as a percentage of 
revenue at 67%. The close management 
of staff costs should help the business  
to restore its profit margins in the 
coming year as revenue growth  
begins to recover.
Strengthened client base
The Group already has an enviable  
client base that includes IBM, Microsoft, 
Cisco, Facebook, AMD, Unilever and 
Coca-Cola. Just after the year end, the 
Group added HP as a significant client  
in the US which helped make up for  
the loss of Sun Microsystems, following 
the announcement that it was being 
acquired by Oracle. The Group also 
added Autodesk and VMware as clients 
during this period. 
In v estment  
in a challenging  
en vironment   Next Fifteen Communications Group plc Annual Report 2009 7
 Additional information 84-88
 Financial statements 40-83
 Governance 22-39
 Business review 10-21
 Overview 1-9
Growth strategy
The Group has continued to explore 
organic growth opportunities supported 
by selective acquisitions of specialist 
agencies in growth sectors. This is 
demonstrated by the acquisition of  
M Booth who are working with the 
existing UK business of Lexis, to create  
a global consumer agency for the  
Group. The acquisition of Upstream’s  
PR agencies in China, Singapore and 
Australia will enable Bite to offer its 
existing and new clients a single-agency 
solution in Europe, North America and 
Asia Pacific. Lastly, the creation of a 
digital agency to leverage the Group’s 
existing capabilities in social media and 
related digital services is further evidence 
that the Group continues to focus on 
long-term growth. With strong cash-
generation from operations and existing 
acquisition facilities, the Group remains 
well placed to make additional targeted 
acquisitions of a size that would not lead 
to a significantly geared balance sheet, 
an approach that the Board continues  
to feel is prudent given the current 
economic climate.
Prospects
The Group has managed its cost base 
and balance sheet well during this 
difficult economic cycle. Unlike some 
others in the marketing services sector it 
remains conservative about cash, having 
ended the year with net funds of £1.8m 
on its balance sheet. Despite the slow 
but gradual improvement in the 
economic climate, the Group will 
continue to be careful in its approach to 
running the business and as reported 
last year, focus heavily on the three Cs  
of customers, cost base and cash.  
The Group has seen an improvement  
in trading conditions after a tough first 
quarter of the 2009 calendar year but it 
will continue to manage the business  
in a way that reflects the general 
uncertainty that surrounds the 
sustainability of economic recovery.  
In the first two months of the current 
financial year, the Group has seen good 
momentum and the Board remains 
optimistic about the prospects for  
the year.
Will Whitehorn
Chairman  
1 1 November 2009
Adjusted EPS (p)
09
08
07
6.48
8.62
7.09
Dividend per share (p)
09
08
07
1.7
1.7
1.5
1 4.9%
    Adjusted profit margin  
    (before head office costs)  
    (2008: 15.90%) 8 Next Fifteen Communications Group plc Annual Report 2009
Given the current challenging economic conditions  
we have been asked many questions on our strategy by  
employees, shareholders and analysts. Here are a selection  
of them which will be answered in this report by some of the 
senior management team:
Growth has been difficult in the last 1 2 months but 
does the Next Fifteen brand portfolio still offer good 
growth prospects ?  
Q 1:
for the answer please see page 11
Next Fifteen’ s technology clients have been early 
adopters of social media services. What demand  
for these services have M Booth seen ? 
Q2 :
for the answer please see page 12
The acquisition of M Booth has added to the consumer 
PR capabilities of the Next Fifteen Group, but in what 
ways will this benefit Lexis ? 
Q 3:
for the answer please see page 14   Next Fifteen Communications Group plc Annual Report 2009 9
T ext 1 00 has a network of 25 offices in 1 7 countries but 
does this really allow it to compete directly with the 
large marcoms groups for global client mandates ? 
Q4: Q4:
The recent acquisition of Upstream Asia is an 
interesting move. How will this help the growth 
prospects for the Bite Group ? 
Q 5 :
Staff-cost -to-revenue is a key performance measure for 
the Group. How do you propose to manage this down 
towards the target rate of 65% ?
Q6: Q6:
for more information please see page 16 for more information please see page 16
for the answer please see page 17
for the answer please see page 20
T ext 1 00 has a network of 25 offices in 1 7 countries but 
does this really allow it to compete directly with the 
large marcoms groups for global client mandates ? 
Q4:
for the answer please see page 16
 Additional information 84-88
 Financial statements 40-83
 Governance 22-39
 Business review 10-21
 Overview 1-9
