 8 
 
Group Strategic Report 
 
CEO review   
 
Since the very beginning of this business as a small pharmacy and two doctor clinic nearly forty years 
ago in Abu Dhabi, NMC has been a story of commit, evolve and grow. This commitment is towards 
our patients and their wellbeing, our quality and affordability, our staff and their performance and our 
country and its people. Yet without the vision and drive of the founders and leaders of the UAE, our 
successful journey would not have been possible.  
 
In the second year following NMC Health’s listing on the Premium Segment of the London Stock 
Exchange Main Market, as the first UAE company to successfully pursue this avenue, I am truly proud 
to report on our continued success – as a company, management and team encompassing all NMC 
staff on the ground here in the UAE.  
 
This success is demonstrated through our double digit top-line growth and EBITDA margin 
appreciation in FY 2013. We delivered a 12.4% top-line growth year on year, nearly 200bps higher 
than 2012, as revenues reached US$550.9m. We successfully opened the NMC Day Surgery Centre 
in Mohammed Bin Zayed City in July 2013, while the major additions to our healthcare portfolio will be 
introduced in 2014 and 2015.  
 
EBITDA reached US$ 92.9m in FY 2013 – equating to a 16.7% year on year growth, a rate expansion 
of 372bps compared to 2012. Group EBITDA margins increased by 62bps compared to 2012 and 
closed the year at 16.9%.  
 
The devotion and hard work of management and employees at NMC achieved a new milestone in 
2013, as NMC Healthcare crossed the 2m annual patient mark for the first time. We increased our 
operational bed capacity by 13.5% year on year to 261, nevertheless, Group hospital occupancy 
increased by 420bps to 64.7%.  We continued to strengthen our human resources and added 83 new 
doctors during the year. 
 
Similar efforts in the Distribution division yielded an increase in Stock Keeping Units (SKU’s) of 8.7% 
in 2013, with the total number of products offered by NMC reaching 71,215. In this division we 
enhanced our sales, promotion and marketing capabilities by adding 132 new people in those specific 
areas.  
 
We have continued to face some challenges in relation to the progression of our capital projects 
programme, but we are taking steps to mitigate similar problems arising in the future. We are also in 
the process of implementing two new major IT systems which will establish a suitable IT infrastructure 
for the Group in the future.  
 
We expect the strong performance of the UAE economy to continue in 2014, with a positive effect on 
both our divisions. We are particularly excited about the Emirate of Dubai’s decision in late 2013 to 
begin rolling-out mandatory healthcare insurance for all its residents this year. According to the Dubai 
Health Authority (DHA), around 66% of the Emirate’s residents are without healthcare insurance. 
NMC Health already has two hospitals and a day surgery in Dubai. In addition we plan to open a 60 
bed general hospital in Dubai Investment Park (DIP) in H1, 2014. In the Abu Dhabi market we plan to 
open Brightpoint Women’s Hospital, the first private sector women’s hospital, with a 100 bed capacity.  
 
Finally, I would like to thank our shareholders and my fellow members of the Board of Directors for 
their continued support throughout the past year.  
 
 
Dr B. R. Shetty 
 
 
