 4 
 
 
Chairman’s letter 
 
Dear Shareholder, 
 
When I wrote to shareholders this time last year with the publication of our 2012 Annual Report, I set out a 
number of achievements which had made 2012 a momentous year of change and achievement for NMC 
Health plc.  
 
I am pleased to report that again this year many key milestones have been achieved. Specifically the year 
has seen strong growth with your company following the strategy set out at the time of its IPO in April 2012. 
Moreover, shareholder value has increased significantly during the year. Group Revenue increased from 
US$490.1m in 2012 to US$550.9m in 2013. EBITDA at Group level also improved from US$79.6m to 
US$92.9m in the latest financial year. 
 
Financial stability 
 
In June 2013, the Company announced that it had successfully completed the replacement of its existing 
Syndicated Bank Loan with the help of J P Morgan. Although no additional funds were raised, the proceeds 
of the replacement Syndicated Bank Loan have enabled the Company to restructure its existing loans, 
streamline its financing by reducing the number of loans, reduce its cost of funds and create additional 
headroom to ensure that the Group is more conservatively financed. The reduction in cost of funds is 
estimated to generate average savings of US$2m per annum over the next four financial years, which will 
have a significant positive effect on the Company’s net profit and EPS.  
 
Capital projects 
 
The year has not been without its challenges in relation to the Group’s capital projects. The Group’s 
progress on certain projects within its capital development programme has been slower than expected with 
both the Brightpoint Women’s Hospital and our new DIP General Hospital having encountered construction 
delays. These facilities are expected to open in H1, 2014. However, our first new facility since IPO, the 
NMC Day Surgery Centre in Mohammed Bin Zayed City, opened, in part, in July 2013 and is performing as 
expected. Our most ambitious capital project, the 250 bed hospital being built in the expanding Abu Dhabi 
suburb of Khalifa City, is on track to open in H1, 2015. Finally we also announced in 2013 the launch of a 
medical centre in Al Ain. This project is progressing well.  
 
Operating divisions 
 
In the Healthcare division, occupancy rates and outpatient numbers across all of our Specialty Hospitals 
continue to improve and the Group continues to increase the range of specialty procedures that its clinical 
teams undertake. During the year, our Healthcare division also signed a Memorandum of Understanding 
with Oxford Fertility Unit. This joint venture arrangement to provide specialist IVF services at our new 
Brightpoint Women’s Hospital will be a welcome addition to our range of specialist services. 
 
The private healthcare market in the UAE has been growing steadily in recent years, and the Board expect 
this to continue. The announcement in November 2013 of the introduction of mandatory insurance for 
residents of Dubai will help to underpin the growth potential in the UAE private healthcare market. As our 
Healthcare division has existing operations across both Abu Dhabi and Dubai, your company is well placed 
to benefit from the roll-out of mandatory health insurance in Dubai and, in the future, across the remainder 
of the UAE.     
 
In the Distribution division, performance has continued to improve with an increasing number of product 
lines distributed on behalf of our very supportive suppliers. General macro-economic conditions continue to 
indicate good growth levels for the division.  
 
Corporate Governance 
 
During the year, your Board has continued to assist management in the wider aspects of Corporate 
Governance where there have been a number of changes in UK regulations and “Best Practice” standards 
affecting UK Listed Companies. In addition, the previous Board committee framework has changed with the 
establishment of a Clinical Governance Committee under the guidance of its chair, Heather Lawrence. The 
Committee will monitor the key areas of clinical risk, quality and safety and will work alongside the audit 
committee to ensure key clinical risks facing the Group are monitored and, where necessary, mitigated.  5 
 
Work has progressed on the establishment of integrated IT systems; a new Hospital Information System 
will start to be rolled out in 2014 and the Group’s new Enterprise Resources Planning (“ERP”) financial 
system will be operational in H1, 2014 and will help simplify administration processes. These key 
improvements in the Group’s internal controls are important aspects of NMC’s risk mitigation strategy.    
 
Board changes 
 
During the year there were a number of changes affecting the Board. Jonathan Bomford was appointed to 
the Board in June 2013. Jonathan, a Chartered Accountant, is our new independent Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, and brings sound financial experience to both the audit 
committee and the board, as well as experience of working in the Gulf Region. Justin Jewitt ceased to be a 
Director in June 2013 and the Board would like to thank him for his contribution during his time as a 
Director of the Company and Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
 
In addition, Mr Keyur Nagori was appointed as an Alternate Director to His Excellency Saeed Bin Butti in 
June 2013. 
 
On 24 February 2014, H.E. Saeed Bin Butti resigned as a Director of the company. On the same date, H.E. 
Saeed nominated Mr. Abdul Rahman Basaddiq to be appointed as a Director of the company and his 
appointment was approved by the Board. The Board would like to thank His Excellency for his significant 
contribution to the company and welcome Mr. Basaddiq to the Board. 
 
Dividend 
 
Given the good performance of the Company, and the continued financial stability of the Group, your Board 
plans to submit a Resolution to shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting authorising payment of a 
cash Dividend of 4.4 pence per share. This is approximately 20% of Profit After Tax, a level unchanged 
from the amount which shareholders approved in relation to the 2012 financial year.
 
 
Executive remuneration 
 
The Remuneration Committee, under the chairmanship of Lord Clanwilliam, has been reviewing the 
structure of Executive remuneration. A new Short Term Incentive Plan has been implemented for the 2013 
financial year and a Long Term Incentive Plan is proposed for 2014. Both of these plans, which are 
described more fully in the Directors’ Remuneration Report, are designed to focus and incentivise 
management on the long term value of your company and align them with any value change experienced 
by shareholders in the Company over the longer term.   
 
Management and staff 
 
Economic conditions in the UAE are favourable, but Dr Shetty, his management team and staff across the 
Group have had to continue to work hard through a continuing period of significant change to achieve 
strong results on your behalf. The Board greatly appreciates the continued commitment, energy and 
goodwill which they have shown in the last 12 months and would like to thank them all for their respective 
contributions.  
 
Outlook 
 
Your Board continues to view the outlook for the Group with confidence and enthusiasm and looks forward 
to a period of continued well financed growth. 
 
 
 
H. J. Mark Tompkins 
Non-Executive Chairman  6 
 
2013 at a glance      
 
 
 
 
 
 NMC Health’s revenue reached 
US$550.9m in 2013 
 12.4% revenue growth year on year, two 
percentage points higher than last year’s 
growth  
 
 
 
 EBITDA increased to US$92.9m in 2013 
(+16.7% year on year). 
 EBITDA margins 16.9% in 2013 (+62bps 
year on year)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net profit increased to US$69.1m in 2013 
(+15.7% year on year).  
 Net profit margins (NPM) were slightly 
higher in 2013 at 12.6% (+36bps). 
 
  7 
 
 
 
 
 Adjusted operating cash flow 
for the Group amounted to 
US$88.4m in FY2013, 110.4% 
higher than FY2012. 
 Key drivers include higher 
EBITDA, lower change in net 
working capital and lower 
maintenance capex. 
 
 
 
 
Note: Adjusted operating cash flow excludes changes 
in amounts due from/to related parties. 
 
 
 
 More effective management of 
working capital reduced the 
net working capital to sales 
ratio by 396bps in FY2013. 
 
 
 
 
 Net debt reached US$63.7m as 
the Group continued to 
advance its on-going 
healthcare projects. 
 US$72.2m was spent as 
capital expenditure 
 
 
 
 
 
 Shareholders equity increased 
by 17.2% to US$386.2m in 
FY2013  
