 Strategic Progress
This year has seen Norcon take further steps to implement its diversification strategy. Where opportunities to expand our
services in to new market verticals have emerged, we have taken advantage of them. In addition, where opportunities to work
with new or existing clients in new target geographies have come to light, we have worked hard to prove our capabilities, win
new mandates and broaden our footprint.
Demand drivers continue to support our strategy. Globally, the demand for outsourcing and project management services
continues to grow in the telecoms sector. 4G deployments are under discussion in Scandinavia and we have already
positioned ourselves to take advantage of this long term opportunity by opening an office in the region in spring 2010. The
unrest seen in parts of the Middle East has not impacted our operations in the markets where we are present. We therefore
continue to see a strong demand there for the services that we offer.
A number of multinational telecom operators are pursuing plans to further transform their networks: a trend that we also
expect to benefit from as it develops. Likewise, the defence business has remained stable from prior years, with some
opportunity for new projects in that sector as well. Trends like these represent a strengthening opportunity for Norcon to grow
the level of business it undertakes for existing clients, as well as to expand its customer base.
Our business with our core clients has remained stable. These strong client relationships present the Company with the
potential for additional geographical growth as existing clients enter new territories. We also continue to see opportunities to
develop into new, complementary service areas.
Operational Focus
Despite a year-on-year reduction in turnover and profits, due to the challenges outlined above by our Chairman, and against
high comparative numbers from 2009, the core of our business has delivered a robust performance and the Group has
remained profitable during the year with improved cash conversion.
Norcon’s relationships with its core customers remain as strong as ever with client retention rates remaining well above 90%
consistent with prior years. We have also placed particular emphasis on our business development efforts, working hard to
convert pipeline prospects during 2010.
Routes to Growth
We aim to grow our long-term outsourcing and project management business organically. In pursuit of this aim our focus will
continue to rest both on client retention and new contract wins with both current and new clients in new territories.
Norcon will continue to look at opportunities to further extend into the Southeast Asian and African regions, as well as into
Scandinavia where we have already boosted our presence so far this year. This may involve following our clients as they
themselves expand internationally, as we have done with a key telecommunications client in Scandinavia: supporting it both at
home and, now, in projects in its own international markets. This may also involve joint-ventures or partnerships, where other
local partners can complement our existing consultancy strengths.
Dividend
The Company paid its first interim dividend of US$1m in November 2010. The Board had re-confirmed in early April its
dividend policy of paying out at a dividend of at least 50% of net income when the annual accounts for 2010 had been
approved.
As of today, the Board of Directors recommended a final dividend of US$1.15m, in an amount of US$0.02356133 per ordinary
share in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2010. This final dividend is to be paid to all holders of ordinary shares
appearing in the register of members of the Company at 24 June 2011 (“the Record Date”), subject to shareholder approval
at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 27 June 2011.
NORCON PLC
5
Chief Executive’s Review People
On behalf of the Company, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our employees for their excellent commitment,
contribution and hard work during the year. I would also like to welcome the new employees and joint venture partners in new
geographical territories who have joined our group this year.
Outlook
We remain positive about our prospects for 2011 and are also confident that opportunities exist for Norcon to continue to
grow organically over the longer term.
Arnold Rørholt
Chief Executive Officer
NORCON PLC
6
Chief Executive’s Review continued
