 Chairman’ s Statement
N OR M A N H AY P L C
04
2007 was another excellent year for the Norman
Hay Group with underlying operating profits up 16% 
on the previous year.
Our continuing success results from streamlining our
lower margin operating units in the UK, coupled with 
a drive to increase international revenues.
This focus has exposed the improved high margins we 
are able to achieve in the niche chemical businesses 
in which we specialise and which we are developing
around the world.
Dividends
A final dividend for the year of 2.6p is proposed 
(2006: 2.0p) making the total for the year 4.4p, an
increase of 33% on the preceding year’s total of 3.3p.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting to be held
on 18 June 2008, the dividend will be paid on 25 July
2008 to shareholders on the register on 20 June 2008.
Business Overview- a focus on 
chemical excellence
Norman Hay plc’s strength lies in our niche chemical
businesses. Their names and brands are recognised and
respected around the world. 
The Group comprises three main chemical divisions:
Surface Coatings — “Armourcote”
Automotive Sealants — “Ultraseal”
Construction Sealants — “TAM International”
These three primary divisions are supported by the
engineering operation, which manufactures specialist
process plant and equipment.
Business in the UK for our sub-contract surface coating
services has remained strong and we are reaching out
to service the requirements of our multi-national
customers by investing in operations overseas. 
In November 2007 we acquired Hi-Tech Coatings 
in Perth, Western Australia and in the second 
quarter of 2008 we announced the opening of our 
new Armourcote facility in Port Klang, Malaysia. 
These businesses will jointly service the growing
requirements of the oil and gas exploration industries
of the region.
International demand for our Ultraseal range of
recyclable impregnation sealants for the automotive
industry remains strong with new installations in
Europe, India and China.
Our acquisition of TAM International at the end of 2006
has allowed us to enter the construction industry, a
new and significant market place for the Group. 
During the year we have invested in strengthening
TAM’s technical, manufacturing and marketing
infrastructure so as to allow the business to expand
substantially over the next few years.
The engineering business, an amalgamation of all of
the Group’s historic plant manufacturing operations,
has performed well this year. 
Well known and respected for the quality of its
engineering design, the business has continued to
develop its strong customer base worldwide.
Staff
As the Group grows and we welcome new colleagues
from around the globe to our operations, I would like 
to thank all those working in our existing businesses.
Their hard work and dedication and, in many cases,
long service, has allowed us to build the strong base
upon which our international expansion is founded.
77354 Pre  19/5/08  18:41  Page 4 A NNUAL R EP ORT 20 07
05
Current Position and Outlook
In April of this year, following the sale of our 
BK Engineering business to its management in 2006,
we sold the freehold site in Bedfordshire.
We are still working with Unite plc but, as yet, have 
not been able to secure an acceptable Planning
Consent for student accommodation on our Coventry
city centre site. 
As the City Council continues to review plans for the
renewal of Coventry, our site remains excellently
located for whatever shape that plan eventually takes.
In addition to our AIM listing, the Group’s ordinary
shares were also admitted to trading on PLUS markets
in March 2008, with the same ticker symbol (HNN) as
on AIM. 
This will, I believe, help bring increased liquidity for
shareholders as well as providing greater access to
investors. Norman Hay’s shares will continue to be
quoted and traded on AIM. 
I am pleased to say that the year has started well 
and current trading remains buoyant throughout
the Group. 
Peter L Hay
Chairman
20 May 2008 
The Group has
successfully executed
the initial stage of its 
re-focused strategy 
on specialist chemical
products. We are now
strongly positioned 
to realise the global
opportunities of these
value added growth
markets.
77354 Pre  19/5/08  18:41  Page 5
