 N OR M A N H AY P L C
06
Chief Executive’ s Business Review
Norman Hay Group Review of 2007
I am pleased to report that the Norman Hay Group 
has continued to pursue successfully its strategy of
worldwide growth during 2007.
Financial Performance
The reported profit before tax for the year was £2.34m
representing an 8% increase over last year — another
record for the Group. The Group’s balance sheet remains
strong, with low gearing.
Operations
Our operations are divided into three primary divisions
and brands: 
Specialist surface coatings — “Armourcote”
Automotive sealants — “Ultraseal”
Construction industry sealants — “TAM”
The three primary divisions are supported by Norman
Hay Engineering, manufacturers of chemical process
plant and equipment. Each division contains various
respected sub-brands and products.
Our three World Leading
Chemical Brands are:
77354 Pre  19/5/08  18:41  Page 6 A NNUAL R EP ORT 20 07
Specialist Surface Coatings: Armourcote
Brand: Armourcote
Surface Coatings are designed to inhibit corrosion and
provide surface release for marine, petro-chemical,
general engineering and sterile food manufacturing
equipment. The Armourcote brand is one of the strongest
names in the market place. 
Leeds-based Armourcote was acquired in 1988 along
with surface finishing businesses in Coventry and East
Kilbride which now operate under the name of Surface
Technology plc.
Armourcote’s reputation is founded on consistent high
quality, attention to detail and the ability to handle
components of all sizes; this differentiates Armourcote
from the competition. It specialises in solving problems
and providing the technical expertise that our
customers have come to expect from us. 
As well as operating from our Leeds headquarters,
where the process development centre is located, the
Armourcote range of coatings is offered through a
growing number of sub-contract business locations.
These Surface Technology sub-contract centres operate
in the UK from sites in Scotland, Leeds, Coventry and
Slough, giving us the ability to respond rapidly to
customer needs throughout the Country. 
As our major oil tool customers expand their operations
in South East Asia, Armourcote’s strategic focus has
been on opportunities to provide process facilities on 
a global basis. 
In the second quarter of 2008, the new Armourcote
facility in Malaysia became operational. This facility
will complement Hi-Tech Coatings located in Perth,
Western Australia, which Norman Hay acquired in
November 2007. 
The Oil and Gas exploration and extraction industries
which we serve are becoming increasingly active in the
waters off the western coast of Australia, stretching up
to the Malaysian Peninsula. Together, our two new
operations will service the needs of our Oil Tool
customers in providing the range of Armourcote
coatings required to protect their components 
working in these hostile marine environments.
In December 2007 we acquired the remaining minority
shareholding of APC Ltd, and we are in the process of
relocating the operation from Bradford to a new facility
close to our Armourcote business in Leeds.
The Surface Coatings division continues to produce
excellent results. The integration of Hi-Tech Coatings
and the opening of the new Malaysian business give a
positive outlook for 2008 as we expand into promising
emerging markets. 
07
77354 Pre  19/5/08  18:41  Page 7 Chief Executive’ s Business Review continued
N OR M A N H AY P L C
Automotive Sealants: Ultraseal
Brands: Ultraseal/Rexeal/MX
Ultraseal International is a global leader in providing
practical solutions to the ubiquitous problem of micro
porosity in metal castings, using a process known as
resin impregnation. Norman Hay plc acquired Ultraseal 
in 1999.
Ultraseal is the acknowledged world leader in its field,
providing consumable sealant and capital vacuum
impregnation equipment to a global customer base
predominantly in the automotive sector.
The focus and commitment to the automotive industry
is demonstrated by the strategic location of a wholly
owned subsidiary in the Detroit area of USA, a sales 
and distribution office in Tokyo, a joint venture and
manufacturing facility in India and, more recently, 
by establishing licensee and joint venture companies 
in the rapidly expanding Chinese market. 
Ultraseal is also world renowned for the development
and supply of the only globally approved recycling
sealant. 
The Research and Development programme in its
Coventry laboratories continues to focus on advanced
products that are not only more environmentally
friendly but which also have less overall requirement
on energy consumption, thus reducing the carbon
footprint for this sector of industry.
Ultraseal has an excellent, technically supported, sales
and distribution network worldwide. A key part of its
strategy is to seek out additional companies whose
products could be added to its global offering to the
automotive industry. 
Ultraseal produced good profits in 2007 and the
demand for impregnation sealants remains strong.
Construction Industry Sealants: TAM
Brands: TamPur/TamAcryl/TamSil/
TamSeal/TamCrete
TAM International is a world leader in structural
waterproofing using specialist polymers and epoxies.
Norman Hay plc acquired 75% of TAM International in
December 2006.
TAM has manufactured and supplied specialist
chemicals and waterproofing products for the
construction and building industry for over 25 years.
It has sales, distribution and manufacturing activities
strategically located worldwide to serve the global
construction industry. The main manufacturing sites
are  in the UK and Australia, with smaller blending
facilities in Singapore and Hong Kong.
The world market for construction chemicals is
estimated to be in the region of $2.0bn. TAM operates
in niche product areas, bringing the opportunity to
grow substantially both organically and geographically.
TAM is currently in the process of reviewing a variety 
of manufacturing and distribution opportunities,
including joint ventures, in the Gulf States, India,
Taiwan and other emerging markets. 
Sales grew during 2007 as a strategic review of the
business was undertaken. TAM made a modest
contribution to overall Group profits in the year 
as we invested in a stronger sales and marketing
capability designed to support our high expectations
for the future. 
08
77354 Pre  19/5/08  18:41  Page 8 A NNUAL R EP ORT 20 07
Chemical Process Plant and Equipment:
Norman Hay Engineering
Norman Hay Engineering, our process plant operation,
manufactures capital plant and equipment under the
Plasticraft, PMD, Ultraseal and Ardrox banners.
This supports the activities of Ultraseal International
with the design and manufacture of highly specialised
vacuum impregnation plants for turnkey projects
predominantly for the automotive industry. 
Plasticraft and PMD branded metal processing plants 
are designed for aerospace, automotive and general
engineering customers and are complemented by 
the Ardrox range of NDT (non-destructive testing) 
crack detection machines.
Summary
Norman Hay plc is sharply
focused on industries and
customers that value its
unique products, innovative
technologies and processes.
We will actively continue
to seek out opportunities
for acquisitions, joint
ventures, and new
partnerships with
distributors, to support
our worldwide growth. 
Victor P Bellanti
Chief Executive 
20 May 2008
09
77354 Pre  19/5/08  18:41  Page 9
