 A N N U A L R E P O R T 20 0 8 7
Chief Executive ’ s Business Review
Norman Hay Group Review of 2008
The Group’s strategy is to create growth through the
global expansion of our businesses. I am pleased to say
that we were again successful in achieving this in 2008.
Financial Performance
Revenue up 13%
International revenue up 28%
Profits from operations increased to £2.4m
Sales in the year to 31 December 2008 grew by 13% 
to £27m (2007: £24.0m). A pre-tax profit of £2.4m 
(2007: £2.3m) was achieved after significant start up
costs for new operations were offset by exchange gains
and the profit on the sale of the BK Engineering site 
in Leighton Buzzard.
Basic earnings per share of 10.7p (2007: 11.4p) would
have been 16.2p (2007: 16.3p) excluding the taxation
charge. The taxation adjustments are further explained
in Note 9 to the financial statements.
Set against the challenges of world economic
conditions this has been another successful trading
year for the Group. We continued to increase the
Group’s earnings in the first half of the year however
performance was impacted in the final quarter as our
customers were affected by the global financial crisis.
Operations
Our operations are divided into three chemical
divisions, supported by our Engineering division, which
designs and manufactures a wide range of chemical
process plants:-
Armourcote – Specialist surface coatings
Ultraseal – Automotive sealants
TAM – Construction chemicals 
These three leading brands are recognised and
respected by a diverse range of industries and sought
after by many of the world’s leading multi-national
manufacturers.
Armourcote – Surface Coatings
The surface coatings business did not perform as well 
as in the preceding year. Our new venture in Malaysia
incurred a start up loss of £193k before adjusting 
for exchange gains and, in addition, we incurred
reorganisation costs in the Coventry operation as we
integrated it in to the AST business, which we acquired
in July 2008. Our UK based businesses providing
specialist surface coatings for the oil & gas sector,
having started slowly, recovered to finish the 
year strongly.
Armourcote serves a number of markets including
automotive, engineering and oil & gas. As we see a 
major deterioration in the automotive sector, other
markets are proving to be more resilient and our
Leeds and Scotland based operations that are
predominantly focused on the oil & gas markets 
have started 2009 strongly.
The diversity in the markets we service should help to
offset the bleak outlook in manufacturing expected 
over the next twelve months.
Ultraseal – Automotive Sealants
Ultraseal’s performance in 2008 was above
expectations with pre-tax profits up 21% on the
preceeding year. The impact of increased market 
share and positive exchange gains boosted results. 
Sustainability and a corporate responsibility towards
the environment has always been the focus for
Ultraseal International. Throughout 2008 we continued
to pursue the development of new products and
services that will allow Ultraseal’s customers to adopt
new solutions which will enable them to reduce their
carbon footprints and effluent streams. W W W. N O R M A N H AY. CO M 8
Chief Executive ’ s Business Review continued
Ultraseal – Automotive Sealants cont’d
Although the automotive sector suffered in the second
half of 2008, the global nature of our business helped 
to offset the decline in Europe and the USA.
As part of our focus on “Total Solutions To Porosity”
Ultraseal International has become the exclusive
distributor for the Lubrolene range of patented die
lubricants for the greater European area. These
products, from a leading Japanese manufacturer, are
unique in their field and represent the most advanced
products available in the world, bringing both huge
environmental and financial benefits to users. They
represent a demonstrable synergy with the Ultraseal
range of advanced impregnation sealants in that 
they focus on better quality products and provide lower
manufacturing costs and reduced environmental
impact for the customer. 
The outlook for 2009 is difficult to forecast as the
reduction in new automotive manufacturing schedules
is yet to stabilise. As a result, we are expecting a fall 
in profitability compared with 2008.
Norman Hay Engineering
– Chemical Engineering
The results for 2008 were better than in 2007 as,
despite lower sales, improvements in margins resulted
in a 12% increase in profits.
The year has started well with us securing a major
contract with Messier Services UK to supply and install
process lines for a new aircraft landing leg repair facility
in Saudi Arabia.
TAM – Construction Chemicals
We continued to expand the construction chemicals
operations in 2008. Sales grew by 64% to £6.9m 
(2007: £4.2m) although profitability did not grow at the
same rate. The manufacturing and distribution facility
in Taiwan incurred start up losses and the Australian
operation produced a loss for the year. The TAM
Australia strategy is now realigned and cost reduction
measures have resulted in a small operating profit being
achieved in November and December.
TAM International is growing into a truly global
supplier of a broad range of construction chemicals 
with our new Taiwan facility, which became operational
in July, manufacturing advanced admixes and
associated chemical products.
The global expansion will continue in 2009 with the
establishment of sales and marketing operations in
Indonesia and India together with the signing up of
new distributors in Vietnam and Malaysia. 
Although many sections of the construction industry
are experiencing difficult times, the TAM business,
which is predominately involved in structural repairs
and infrastructure projects, will benefit from
opportunities which arise as governments increase
spending in these areas to offset the impact of the
global recession. A N N U A L R E P O R T 20 0 8 9
Norman Hay plc
Norman Hay made two significant appointments during
2008 in order to strengthen the team at Group level:
Lee Shelton – Director of International Business
Development
Lee Shelton was appointed Director of International
Business Development in January 2008 and he relocated
from Japan to Hong Kong in March 2009. In this new
role Lee will focus on driving growth opportunities
across the Asia-Pacific region.
Nick Ogden – Group Financial Controller of Norman Hay plc
and Finance Director of Surface Technology plc.
Nick Ogden was appointed in June, 2008 in order 
to strengthen the overall financial control and
management of our increasingly international
operations.
Nick has joined us from BDO Stoy Hayward LLP where he
had been Audit Manager for Norman Hay since 2004.
His insight into the Group has enabled him quickly to
contribute to improvements in the financial
management of Group businesses.
Current Trading
Whilst the current global economic environment
presents us with new challenges, there are a number 
of positives. 
The Norman Hay Engineering order book, boosted by the
Messier order for Saudi Arabia, now stands at its highest
ever level. 
In addition, there has been a significant increase in new
enquiries associated with this success and several new
opportunities are being explored.
Elsewhere, TAM International has recently received a
£2.6m contract to supply specialist construction
chemicals for the Hong Kong West Drainage 
Tunnel project.
Victor P Bellanti
Chief Executive 
27 May 2009
This has been another successful trading year for the Group,
despite the challenges of world economic conditions.
“
”
Summary
The Norman Hay Group
has been successful
in its strategy for sales growth
through the global expansion
of its businesses.
Current Trading cont’d
We are in a strong position to repeat this success on 
a number of other up and coming infrastructure projects 
in the Asia-Pacific region.
The actions that we have taken to tackle
the uncertainties in the financial markets will ensure 
that the Group is well placed to move forward in 
the next 12 months.
