 2009
Annual Report and Accounts
17666	 20/05/2010	 Proof	10
page 7
Introduction
2009	 turned	 out	 to	 be	 a	 challenging	 year	 for	 the	 global	
economy,	 with	 many	 sectors	 affected	 by	 harsh	 trading	
conditions.	 The	 markets	 in	 which	 Norman	 Hay	 operates	
were	 no	 exception.	
The	 dramatic	 reduction	 in	 the	 automotive	 sector,	 and	
reduced	 demand	 from	 the	 oil	 &	 gas	 industries	 in	 the	
second	 half	 of	 the	 year	 had	 a	 significant	 impact	 on	
performance.
However,	 we	 responded	 swiftly	 and	 decisively	 to	 the	
worldwide	 economic	 downturn	 by	 restructuring	 and	
adjusting	 our	 plans	 to	 meet	 the	 changing	 operating	
environment.	
Underpinning	 this	 was	 a	 reduction	 of	 the	 cost	 base	 in	 our	
existing	 operations	 in	 order	 to	 reflect	 changed	 market	
conditions.	 Careful	 financial	 management	 within	 our	
businesses	 coupled	 with	 firm	 control	 of	 expenditure	 and	
Group	 resources	 ensured	 that	 we	 were	 able	 to	 adjust	 to	
these	 demanding	 economic	 conditions.	
These	 strong	 controls	 have	 also	 enabled	 us	 to	 continue	 to	
invest	 in	 new	 opportunities	 where	 they	 arise	 and,	 whilst	
our	 recent	 investments	 have	 led	 to	 an	 increase	 in	 our	
overhead	 base,	 these	 additional	 costs	 have	 been	 focused	
and	 tightly	 controlled.
The	 majority	 of	 our	 operations	 were	 affected	 by	 the	
decline	 in	 world	 markets.	 Conditions	 started	 to	 ease	
during	 the	 second	 half	 of	 2009	 and	 this,	 combined	 with	
the	 actions	 we	 had	 taken	 in	 the	 first	 half,	 saw	 first	 half	
trading	 losses	 of	 £0.5m	 reversed	 to	 a	 trading	 profit	 of	
£0.4m	 in	 the	 second	 half.
Operations
Norman	 Hay	 provides	 products	 and	 services	 to	 customers	
across	 diverse	 markets	 and	 is	 focused	 on	 key	 global	
market	 sectors	 through	 its	 main	 brands.
Ultraseal –	 Impregnation	 Sealants 
Ultraseal	 was	 particularly	 impacted	 by	 the	 decline	 in	 the	
automotive	 sector,	 and	 first	 half	 results	 reflected	 the	
massive	 global	 decline	 in	 vehicle	 production	 that	 hit	 hard	
in	 the	 last	 quarter	 of	 2008.	
In	 the	 first	 half	 of	 2009,	 sales	 were	 down	 46%	 on	 the	 first	
half	 of	 the	 previous	 year,	 but	 the	 second	 half	 was	 much	
more	 encouraging,	 with	 business	 beginning	 to	 recover	 to	
more	 normal	 levels	 in	 most	 markets.
This	 rise	 in	 revenues	 in	 the	 second	 half	 of	 2009	 resulted	
in	 full	 year	 sales	 being	 down	 23%	 on	 the	 previous	 year,	 a	
marked	 improvement	 on	 the	 trend	 in	 the	 first	 half.
In	 order	 to	 manage	 this	 decline	 in	 business,	 careful	 cost-
management	 plans	 were	 put	 in	 place.	
In	 North	 America,	 with	 automotive	 demand	 beginning	
to	 fall	 from	 midway	 through	 2008	 as	 the	 global	 recession	
made	 its	 mark,	 we	 restructured	 our	 USA	 operation	 to	
help	 offset	 the	 lower	 levels	 of	 business.	
Automotive	 business	 in	 North	 America	 recovered	 in	 the	
latter	 part	 of	 2009,	 reflecting	 wider	 economic	 conditions,	
and	 this	 trend	 was	 repeated	 in	 Europe	 and	 the	 Asia-
Pacific	 region.
Ultraseal’s	 strategy	 of	 diversifying	 its	 operations	
geographically,	 making	 it	 less	 dependent	 on	 Western	
economies,	 has	 certainly	 helped	 the	 business	 through	
this	 tumultuous	 period.
We	 are	 cautiously	 optimistic	 for	 the	 business	 in	 2010,	
as	 there	 are	 signs	 of	 a	 return	 to	 previous	 levels	 of	
automotive	 manufacturing.	 It	 remains	 to	 be	 seen	 if	 this	
resurgence	 is	 sustainable,	 but	 Ultraseal	 International	
has	 focused	 and	 structured	 its	 worldwide	 operations	 to	
take	 advantage	 of	 any	 new	 opportunities	 that	 arise	 in	 its	
global	 markets.	
Chief Executive ’ s Business Review
Supplying high technology chemical 
systems, combined with bespoke 
engineering solutions, for the 
aerospace, automotive, oil & gas and 
construction industries around the 
world is proving to be an increasingly 
successful formula for the Group
“
” 17666	 20/05/2010	 Proof	10
2009
Annual Report and Accounts
page 8 page 8 page 8
Chief Executive ’ s Business Review continued
Armourcote –	 Surface	 Coatings
Armourcote	 serves	 a	 number	 of	 markets	 including	
Automotive,	 Engineering	 and	 Oil	 &	 Gas.
The	 UK	 businesses	 focused	 on	 the	 automotive	 sector	
were	 significantly	 impacted	 by	 the	 recession.	 This	
has	 only	 recently	 begun	 to	 abate,	 albeit	 at	 a	 modest	
pace.	 The	 largest	 reduction	 was	 in	 our	 Coventry	 based	
electroplating	 operation	 which	 achieved	 only	 46%	 of	 its	
expected	 revenue.	
In	 October,	 we	 acquired	 business	 from	 a	 competitor,	
which	 has	 helped	 to	 reduce	 the	 Coventry	 unit’s	
dependence	 on	 the	 UK	 automotive	 sector.
Also,	 during	 the	 year	 the	 Group	 disposed	 of	 its	 remaining	
wet	 processing	 operations	 on	 our	 main	 Coventry	 site.	
The	 consideration	 receivable	 from	 this	 disposal	 is	 based	
upon	 the	 future	 sales	 of	 the	 purchaser.	 There	 is	 no	 set	
termination	 date	 for	 this	 agreement.
The	 Leeds,	 East	 Kilbride	 and	 Irvine	 operations	 are	
predominantly	 focused	 on	 the	 oil	 &	 gas	 markets.	 These	
businesses	 performed	 strongly	 in	 the	 first	 half,	 with	
turnover	 up	 8%	 on	 the	 previous	 year.	
However,	 conditions	 slowed	 in	 the	 second	 half	 and	 the	
reduction	 in	 revenues	 has	 continued	 into	 2010.
The	 impact	 of	 the	 recession	 on	 the	 overseas	 operations	
has	 been	 varied	 as	 follows:
 The	 operation	 in	 Port	 Klang,	 Malaysia	 moved	 into	
profit	 in	 early	 2010.	
 Hi-Tech	 Coatings	 in	 Perth,	 Western	 Australia,	 saw	
year	 on	 year	 revenue	 fall	 by	 18%.	 As	 a	 consequence	 of	
the	 decline	 in	 revenue,	 a	 reduction	 in	 management	
overheads	 was	 undertaken	 to	 provide	 a	 lower	 cost	
base	 for	 the	 future.
 ASTEC	 Dalian	 in	 Eastern	 China,	 where	 we	 manage	 and	
operate	 a	 customer’s	 in-house	 zinc	 plating	 operation,	
performed	 well	 and	 was	 profitable	 in	 2009.	 Volumes	
have	 increased	 considerably	 in	 recent	 months	 on	
the	 back	 of	 a	 recovery	 in	 the	 US	 automotive	 market	
and	 continuing	 expansion	 of	 the	 Chinese	 domestic	
market.	
	 We	 are	 currently	 exploring	 further	 opportunities	 to	
roll	 out	 this	 concept	 of	 managing	 our	 customers’	 in-
house	 processing	 plants	 on	 a	 global	 basis.
TAM International	 –	 Construction	 Chemicals
TAM	 has	 made	 significant	 progress	 since	 it	 became	 part	
of	 the	 Norman	 Hay	 Group	 three	 years	 ago.	 Turnover	 grew	
by	 15%	 in	 2009,	 although	 this	 was	 below	 our	 forecasts.	
Delays	 in	 infrastructure	 projects	 in	 Hong	 Kong	 and	
Taiwan	 have	 impacted	 profitability,	 resulting	 in	 an	 overall	
loss	 for	 the	 year.	
Despite	 the	 global	 recession,	 we	 have	 continued	 to	 invest	
in	 the	 geographical	 expansion	 of	 TAM,	 which	 included	
the	 setting	 up	 of	 a	 subsidiary	 in	 Indonesia	 to	 service	 the	
large	 gold	 mining	 industry	 in	 the	 region.	
In	 the	 latter	 part	 of	 2009	 TAM	 International	 worked	 with	
Normet,	 a	 leader	 in	 the	 supply	 of	 equipment	 and	 vehicles	
for	 mining	 and	 underground	 construction,	 which	 proved	
to	 be	 mutually	 beneficial.	
As	 a	 consequence	 of	 this	 successful	 working	 relationship,	
we	 have	 now	 formed	 a	 strategic	 alliance	 with	 Normet	
who,	 in	 April	 2010,	 purchased	 30%	 of	 Norman	 Hay’s	
interest	 in	 TAM’s	 issued	 share	 capital	 for	 £2.4m,	 with	
the	 possibility	 that	 Normet	 can	 (at	 their	 option)	 acquire	
100%	 of	 the	 share	 capital	 in	 2014.	 The	 consideration	 for	
this	 would	 be	 based	 upon	 a	 multiple	 of	 six	 times	 profit	 of	
the	 business	 in	 the	 year	 immediately	 preceding	 the	 sale.	
Under	 the	 call	 option,	 the	 minimum	 amount	 due	 for	 the	
remainder	 of	 Norman	 Hay’s	 equity	 in	 TAM	 is	 £5.1m	 and	
the	 maximum	 is	 £14.25m.
The	 terms	 of	 this	 transaction	 mean	 that	 from	 the	 date	 of	
the	 initial	 sale,	 TAM	 will	 no	 longer	 be	 accounted	 for	 as	 a	
subsidiary.
The	 partnership	 brings	 together	 the	 construction	
chemical	 consumables	 of	 TAM	 with	 the	 international	
manufacture	 and	 enhanced	 distribution	 of	 Normet’s	
application	 hardware.	 Both	 companies	 share	 a	 common	
global	 marketplace	 in	 construction	 solutions	 for	
waterproofing,	 injection	 and	 repair	 of	 structures	 together	
with	 major	 construction	 projects	 in	 civil	 engineering,	
tunneling	 and	 mining	 and	 we	 believe	 that	 this	 will	
considerably	 strengthen	 both	 of	 our	 companies.	
This	 new	 partnership	 should	 help	 to	 accelerate	 the	
growth	 of	 the	 TAM	 business	 and	 we	 look	 forward	 to	 a	
successful	 working	 alliance	 with	 Normet.
Norman Hay’s position is strong and 
the actions we have taken to improve 
efficiency and diversify in to growth 
markets will leave us well placed to 
benefit from economic recovery
“
” 17666	 20/05/2010	 Proof	10
page 9
2009
Annual Report and Accounts
Norman Hay Engineering –	 Chemical	 Process	 Plant
2009	 was	 a	 very	 successful	 year	 for	 Norman	 Hay	
Engineering,	 with	 a	 record	 value	 of	 orders	 received	 for	
its	 Plasticraft	 and	 Ardrox	 branded	 chemical	 process	
equipment.	
During	 the	 year	 we	 have	 continued	 to	 build	 and	 develop	
the	 Company’s	 reputation	 as	 a	 major	 supplier	 to	 the	
world’s	 aerospace	 market.
The	 majority	 of	 equipment	 is	 utilised	 in	 the	 aerospace	
industry’s	 original	 equipment	 manufacture	 (OEM)	 and	
maintenance,	 repair	 and	 overhaul	 (MRO)	 operations.	 Two	
major	 contracts	 in	 each	 sector	 formed	 the	 basis	 for	 the	
2009	 success.
Through	 the	 Company’s	 achievements	 in	 the	 year,	
Norman	 Hay	 Engineering	 has	 secured	 a	 record	 order	
book	 for	 2010,	 including	 projects	 in	 Saudi	 Arabia	 and	
Singapore.	
This	 provides	 us	 with	 an	 enviable	 position	 of	 continuity	
and	 stability	 throughout	 2010	 and	 2011.	 This	 will	 	
enable	 the	 business	 to	 continue	 to	 strengthen	 as	 a	
leading	 player	 in	 the	 UK	 and	 global	 marketplace.
During	 the	 first	 two	 quarters	 of	 2010,	 we	 have	 	
continued	 to	 enjoy	 a	 strong	 level	 of	 enquiries	 for	 other	
major	 installations.
Cash
Despite	 challenging	 trading	 conditions	 in	 2009,	 the	
Group	 generated	 a	 positive	 cash	 flow	 and	 reduced	 total	
bank	 borrowings	 to	 £0.8m	 from	 £1.0m	 at	 the	 end	 of	 the	
previous	 year.
Following	 the	 part	 disposal	 of	 TAM	 International	 in	 April	
2010	 we	 are	 currently	 cash	 positive.
Dividends
The	 level	 of	 dividend	 payment	 to	 shareholders	 is	 a	
reflection	 of	 the	 Board’s	 confidence	 in	 the	 Group.
Having	 maintained	 the	 half	 year	 payout	 at	 the	 2008	
level,	 Board	 members	 felt	 that	 recent	 trading	 conditions	
enabled	 a	 second	 interim	 dividend	 of	 2.3p	 per	 share	 to	 be	
paid,	 giving	 a	 total	 dividend	 for	 the	 year	 of	 4.3p.	
The	 second	 interim	 dividend	 was	 paid	 in	 order	 to	 bring	
the	 income	 forward	 into	 the	 2009/10	 tax	 year	 and	
replaces	 the	 final	 dividend.
O u tlook
Supplying	 high	 technology	 chemical	 systems,	
combined	 with	 bespoke	 engineering	
solutions,	 for	 the	 aerospace,	 automotive,	 oil	
&	 gas	 and	 construction	 industries	 around	
the	 world	 is	 proving	 to	 be	 an	 increasingly	
successful	 formula	 for	 the	 Group.
Although	 we	 expect	 challenging	 conditions	
to	 continue	 in	 2010,	 Norman	 Hay’s	 position	
is	 strong	 and	 the	 actions	 we	 have	 taken	
to	 improve	 efficiency	 and	 to	 diversify	 our	
product-led	 businesses	 into	 growth	 markets	
will	 leave	 us	 well	 placed	 to	 benefit	 from	
economic	 recovery.	
Victor P Bellanti
Chief	 Executive
19	 May	 2010
