 Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 7 
2013 was a year of significant change for 
APR Energy, and I am pleased to report the 
progress we have achieved.
Our ability to deploy large-scale power, 
rapidly, combined with our turnkey approach 
and advanced technology, provides 
customers with the confidence of having 
reliable power when they need it. Our ability 
to do this consistently has led to great client 
‘stickiness’ – and our contract renewal rate 
of over 90% in 2013 is testament to that.
Order intake was strong, driven by record 
new contract wins of 740MW (2012: 569MW) 
and contract extensions of 298MW (2012: 
724MW), including in Uruguay, Indonesia, 
Angola and post year-end Libya, where 
clients not only renewed contracts, but 
expanded them at similar pricing.
We have focused on delivering a strong 
operational performance, with utilisation a 
key target for management. Across the year 
the Group achieved a utilisation rate of 74%. 
With the commissioning of a number of 
significant contracts during the second half 
and ongoing renewals, total fleet utilisation 
increased to 81% at year end. This reflects 
a significant improvement in diesel power 
module utilisation and almost full utilisation 
across our turbine fleet, demonstrating our 
customers’ desire for this technology.
Our acquisition of the GE Power Rental 
Business in October 2013, together with our 
new partnership and supply agreement has 
accelerated the pace at which the Group 
can address the growing market opportunity. 
During the year, we continued to invest in 
our power generation capacity, increasing it 
by nearly 60% to 2,074 MW (31 December 
2012: 1,311MW) through a combination of 
acquisitive and organic capacity expansion. 
This investment focused primarily on our 
mobile gas turbines, the key technology 
underpinning our strategy. As a result of 
this investment, our fleet at the year end 
comprised 56% mobile gas turbines, 39% 
diesel power modules, and 5% gas power 
modules. 
2013 financial performance 
Through a combination of strong order 
book growth and successful project 
execution, we delivered a strong operating 
and financial performance. Our financial 
results for 2013 reflect the inclusion of the 
GE power rental business from the end of 
October.
Revenue increased 16% to $308 million 
(2012: $266 million) driven primarily by 
new contract wins, contract extensions and 
high utilisation levels on an enlarged fleet, 
following the commissioning of a number 
of significant contracts during the year. 
The timing of these projects becoming 
operational resulted in revenue being 
heavily biased to the second half of the 
year, as expected.
Adjusted EBITDA increased 15% to $181 
million (2012: $157 million) resulting in an 
adjusted EBITDA margin of 59% (2012: 
59%). Over the medium-term, larger-scale, 
repeatable projects should benefit from 
operating efficiencies, which, together with 
the growth of our turbine fleet, is expected 
to enhance margins.
Adjusted basic earnings per share was 
60 cents (2012: 68 cents) based on a 
weighted average number of shares of 
81.0 million (2012: 78.2 million shares), the 
increase in shares reflecting the 15.5 million 
shares issued to GE at the end of October 
2013. 
During the year, the Group increased 
its credit facilities to $650 million (31 
December 2012: $400 million) to provide 
significant liquidity to continue to grow 
our fleet, expand our global network, 
and quickly respond to the growing 
opportunities in our market, including the 
GE acquisition. At the year end, we had 
grown our total fleet capacity by 58% to 
2,074MW, (31 December 2012: 1,311MW), 
reflecting the 520MW of additional capacity 
acquired through the GE acquisition and 
313MW of organic capacity expansion 
funded by fleet capital expenditure of 
approximately $290 million.
The Group’s cash flow reflected these 
high levels of fleet investment and 
increased mobilisation costs, together with 
investments in working capital arising from 
the significantly higher activity in the second 
half, the timing of receivables and the 
acquisition of the GE business in October. 
As a result, the Group maintained a good 
financial position, with year-end net debt 
as announced in the January 2014 trading 
update of $556 million (31 December 
2012: $184 million) excluding capitalised 
financing fees. 
Our year end net debt position reflected 
the timing of the receipt of receivables, 
including those in respect of Libya. In the 
case of our Libyan project, we established 
upon contract signing an enhanced 
credit structure backed by a leading UK 
Financial Institution, through which the 
Group receives payment. I am pleased 
to report that in recent weeks we have 
seen significant progress - and have 
received $100 million to date from our 
customer in Libya, reflecting the receipt 
of all outstanding and due payments and 
significantly reducing our current net debt 
position.
Our provision for bad debts remains at 
a historic low level reflecting a strong 
customer payment record. The Group’s 
use of letters of credit, contract insurance 
policies and up front deposits, support 
the receipt of contract revenues, 
notwithstanding occasional timing issues 
given the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Acquisition of GE’s Power Rental 
Business
A key development during the year was our 
acquisition of GE’s Power Rental Business 
and GE’s investment in our Company. 
Through the transaction we acquired 520MW 
of power generation capacity, comprising 
five equipment-only rental contracts in 
Australia, Bangladesh, Canada, Iraq and the 
U.S. Virgin Islands, and four non-contracted 
mobile turbines.
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
We are pleased with the results achieved in 2013, and believe 
our progress during the year has positioned us well to deliver 
sustainable growth into 2014 and beyond.
John Campion, Chief Executive Officer 8 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
In creating the world’s leading fast-track 
mobile turbine business, the acquisition 
advances us towards our strategic 
goals, strengthening and diversifying our 
business, while creating a valuable long-
term strategic partnership with GE. The 
transaction broadens our revenue base, 
and reduces our concentration risk, through 
exposure to new geographies and an 
established natural gas footprint.
While still early days, integration is 
progressing well. We have realised our first 
renewal, with a twelve-month extension 
on improved pricing of the 25MW mobile 
turbine contract in the US Virgin Islands. 
We are in discussions with customers in 
Bangladesh and Iraq, whose contracts are 
due for renewal in 2014. We intend to apply 
our standard approach and pricing to these 
contracts, transferring customers across to 
our full turnkey offering, which we believe 
provides an attractive power solution. In 
the event customers do not require this 
full offering, or we are unable to reach 
agreement, we will seek to redeploy these 
assets onto more favourable terms, in line 
with our historic turbine pricing.
The strategic partnership with GE gives 
us the ability to collaborate on business 
development opportunities, where APR 
Energy can offer complementary power 
solutions, while permanent GE plants are 
built. We have been pleased with the level 
of inbound requests and expect these 
opportunities to develop over the short to 
medium-term. Our partnership provides 
access to GE’s manufacturing capacity, 
through which we expect to be able to 
support our future growth opportunities 
more efficiently, reducing the time between 
order and delivery, as well as reducing the 
time between purchasing new turbines and 
their commissioning, and hence revenue 
generation. 
Using our technological  
advantage to deliver sustainable 
growth
We continue to differentiate ourselves by 
offering a broad choice of technologies 
in our fleet, with a particular strategic 
focus on dual-fuel mobile turbines, the 
technology best suited for the rapid 
deployment of large blocks of power. 
Turbines are an integral part of our growth 
strategy, providing a stronger offering 
into more attractive larger-scale, longer-
term projects. This technology presents a 
number of advantages to our customers. 
Its power density i.e., small footprint-
to-megawatt ratio, improves speed and 
logistics, while providing greater reliability, 
requiring less maintenance, and producing 
significantly less emissions than its 
reciprocating engine counterparts. The 
fuel flexibility of our mobile gas turbines 
provides an additional advantage for the 
customer, with the ability to switch quickly 
between diesel and natural gas depending 
on customer needs or preference. 
Furthermore, where gas is available to a 
customer, it can significantly reduce the 
generating costs of electricity, as well as 
reduce emissions. 
Our global strategic partnerships with GE 
and Caterpillar provide us with reliable, 
state-of-the-art technology, around the 
clock support across the globe, and 
beneficial pricing. Our partnership with GE 
provides the Group exclusive worldwide 
rights to offer its mobile turbines within our 
market, while deploying capital in a more 
timely manner.
Risk management
APR Energy operates in a market with 
strong structural growth opportunities. 
These opportunities often take us to 
challenging parts of the world, including 
countries that experience political, social, 
economic and security instability. And, 
as contracts become larger, longer and 
more complex, we recognise the need for 
ever more rigorous risk assessment and 
mitigation.
We are committed to creating a secure 
working environment for our people, 
while ensuring the security of our physical 
assets and surety of payment. We are 
proactive through our contract due 
diligence to address these issues through 
a variety of mitigating actions, including 
the purchasing of insurance, bonds, 
guarantees, and cash advances to protect 
both our financial and operational assets. 
To mitigate significant receivable risks, we 
also enter into enhanced credit structures, 
which through the use of letters of credit, 
guarantee customer payment. 
At times, we operate in countries that have 
recently emerged from significant political 
and social upheavals. The emerging 
governments, often require a period in 
which they establish the administrative 
processes, often via committee, through 
which they can effectively operate – this 
has been the case in Libya. Our customer, 
the state owned utility has been through 
a period of tremendous change, and it 
has taken time to establish the requisite 
committees and processes. To mitigate 
l Creates a long-term strategic alliance 
with GE, providing dedicated supply 
for the fast track, turnkey power 
segment, a collaborative business 
development platform, and expanded 
access to worldwide support services, 
subject to existing contractual 
arrangements
l Makes GE a key strategic investor in 
APR Energy
l Strengthens and diversifies APR 
Energy’s global footprint and contract 
revenue base, providing access 
to new developed and developing 
countries
l Enhances APR Energy’s large scale, 
fast track power business, positioning 
APR Energy well to take advantage 
of expanding opportunities with the 
fastest growing technology in the 
industry
l Improves APR Energy’s footprint in 
natural gas, a growing fuel source that 
is both cost-efficient and emissions 
friendly
l Strong financial rationale and is 
expected to be earnings accretive for 
the Company
l Delivers enhanced cash generation for 
the enlarged group
The acquisition of GE’s  
Power Rental Business  
created the world’s leading 
fast-track mobile turbine power 
business, strengthening and 
diversifying APR Energy’s 
business.
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement Overview Strategy Performance Directors’ Report Financial Statements Other Information
Annual Report 2013  | APR Energy | 9 
risk associated with this contract, we 
have an enhanced credit structure in 
place. Backed by a leading UK financial 
institution, our documentary letters of 
credit assure payment from a pre-funded 
escrow account upon presentation of 
approved invoices. At the year end date, 
a significant proportion of these invoices 
were outstanding. We acknowledge 
shareholders concerns and are pleased 
to report that following the receipt of 
all outstanding and due payments, our 
customer is current and our processes to 
mitigate risk have proved effective.
A year of progress across our 
global portfolio
We accomplished a number of 
achievements around the world that merit 
highlighting. The structural growth drivers 
within the Group’s business are intact and 
the prospects for fast-track, large-scale 
power in all our chosen geographies 
remain very strong.
Europe, Middle East, and Africa
During the year, our footprint across Africa 
more than doubled, with many notable 
successes. In March, we announced the 
signing of a new 250MW mobile turbine 
contract in Libya to provide a turnkey 
power solution, followed by the expansion 
of our 200MW diesel project announced 
in June, making this the largest single 
contract in the history of the fast-track 
power industry. 
This 450MW solution provides power 
to more than one million homes and 
helps meet demand during the critical 
summer high heat season, as well as 
provide interim power while the country 
continues to rebuild and improve its 
ageing infrastructure. The timescale was 
tight – and not without its challenges – with 
commissioning occurring across six sites 
in the peak heat of the summer and during 
Ramadan. Nonetheless, we were pleased 
to report that our plants were fully installed 
and commercially operational during the 
third quarter. Notwithstanding our sizeable 
power contribution, Libya continues to 
face a chronic and growing structural 
power deficit, requiring significant long-
term investment to address.
We delivered our first cross-border 
agreement, a 40MW diesel power module 
solution, with the Government of Mali. 
The solution was installed in Senegal and 
feeds into the interconnected grid that 
connects Mali, Senegal, and Mauritania. 
We also extended our 70MW diesel 
power module contract in Botswana for a 
further twelve months in late December. 
Our facility in Francistown has been a 
key component of the country’s power 
generation infrastructure since 2009, 
filling a critical gap in its drive toward 
permanent energy sufficiency. As part 
of this renewal, we anticipate to sell 
our installed fleet to the client, with the 
expected transfer of assets to occur post 
the end of the existing contract in Q4 2014. 
The sale represents a mutually attractive 
opportunity for the client to supplement 
its owned diesel power modules, while 
enabling the Group to dispose of older 
technology and legacy equipment. Going 
forward, we will consider the sale of other 
installed assets as opportunities arise.
Our continued presence in Angola 
exemplifies our market approach. In 
2012, we established our first project 
in the country, a 40MW plant located in 
Luanda using diesel power modules. 
After building a positive relationship with 
the customer and delivering a strong 
track-record of reliability, we successfully 
extended the contract for another term 
and expanded our capacity by a further 
40MW, doubling our footprint in country. 
Rather than expanding with more diesel 
power modules, the customer specifically 
requested to upgrade to mobile gas 
turbines, resulting in one of the first-ever 
semi-permanent mobile turbine projects 
in Sub-Saharan Africa and APR Energy’s 
first turbine deal following the GE strategic 
alliance. Through this relationship, we 
have established a strong platform from 
which we hope to expand our market for 
mobile turbine generation solutions across 
the region.
Oman’s hot summer season puts heavy 
demand on the country’s power grid from 
May to August, causing intermittent power 
outages. For the second consecutive 
summer, we provided power to meet 
this seasonal demand. Facilitated by our 
modular system and supported by our 
regional hub in Dubai, the Group’s 32MW 
plant in Oman was operational in under two 
weeks.
Asia Pacific
Indonesia represents one of the largest 
fast-track power markets in the world. 
During the year, we built on our existing 
contract, delivering an additional 40MW 
and 75MW to bring our total power 
capacity in the country to 130MW. Our 
plants provide much needed, reliable 
power to the islands of Nias and Sumatra, 
and by using the newest generation diesel 
power modules, we have been able to 
provide fuel-efficiencies to our customer.
Following the year end, we were pleased 
to announce two new significant contracts 
in Asia. Firstly, a landmark contract in 
Myanmar for 82MW, with plant capacity to 
deliver up to 100MW. The plant, featuring 
our gas power modules, is expected to 
be operational in the second quarter of 
2014 and will be one of the largest thermal 
plants in the country, providing power to 
more than six million people. This bridging 
power capacity is required whilst the utility 
builds a new combined cycle power plant 
to fulfil the country’s needs.
Today, we have announced our largest 
industrial contract. Producing a 
guaranteed 60MW, the mobile gas turbine 
plant will power the customer’s critical 
mining operations in the South Pacific. 
This technology was the customer’s 
preferred solution, meeting strict EU 
emissions requirements and able to fit 
within the challenging space constraints at 
the mine site. The plant will run on diesel, 
while offering our customer the flexibility 
to seamlessly switch to natural gas, if 
needed.
The project adds to APR Energy’s track 
record in the extractive industry sector 
that includes successful power projects in 
Mozambique, Guatemala, and Botswana. 
It is also represents the Group’s second 
large-scale turbine project following 
its acquisition of the GE Power Rental 
Business. The plant is expected to begin 
operations in late Q2 2014 and run through 
to late 2015. This contract reflects the 
versatility that mobile gas turbines provide, 
and the attractiveness of this technology 
not just to utilities, but to industrial 
customers as well.
Recently, we have been informed that 
our customer in Australia has filed for 
protection from its creditors. As such, 
the assets allocated to that project are 
tied up in the receivership process. 
Although it is still in the early stages, the 
Group is working with the administrators 
and receivers of Forge Group Limited 
regarding possession of those assets.
These contracts, together with our 
recent installation of 130MW of new 
power generation in Indonesia, reflect 
the success of our rapidly growing Asia 
Pacific business following the opening 
our Malaysian hub in 2012 and Singapore 
commercial office in 2013.  10 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
The Americas
In Uruguay, we were pleased to announce in 
late 2012 the extension of our existing 100MW 
plant and expansion of an additional 
200MW of mobile gas turbine capacity. 
The 100MW La Tablada site commissioning 
and 100MW Punta del Tigre site expansion 
went operational in the second quarter, 
bringing our total power generation 
capacity in the country to 300MW.
In December, we announced the first 
extension of a contract acquired as part 
of the GE transaction – a twelve-month 
extension of the 25MW mobile gas turbine 
contract in the US Virgin Islands, on 
improved pricing in line with APR Energy’s 
historic turbine pricing.
These contracts reinforce our success in, 
and commitment to, the provision of power 
across our global portfolio. We continue 
to see customers, including those in 
emerging markets, come back to APR 
Energy time and again, to take repeatable 
and often enlarged blocks of power to 
meet their ongoing needs.
 
Our people
Our people are the key to APR Energy’s 
success and our achievements are 
only possible through their hard work 
and dedication. With a rapidly growing 
business, maintaining and growing a 
highly motivated, trained, and efficient 
workforce is a top priority and is essential 
to deliver our vision.
I would like to thank everyone within the 
Group for their continued efforts. I am 
committed to ensuring that we continue to 
foster a collaborative working environment. 
Our employees live and demonstrate our 
values every day, helping to make APR 
Energy a productive and positive place to 
work. 
We have a reputation for integrity and 
honesty in all our business dealings, a 
factor that contributes positively to our 
long-term relationships with customers 
and suppliers. Maintaining our good 
reputation is, therefore, essential for our 
continued success.
With the prospect of significant growth 
ahead, we need to ensure the organisation 
is positioned to achieve this in a 
disciplined way. This includes investing 
in our people to enable them to work to 
the best of their abilities, supported by 
systems, policies, and procedures that 
ensure that our growth is achieved in a 
controlled and repeatable manner. We 
are evolving the organisation to ensure 
our global footprint is aligned to meet 
the needs of our customers quickly, 
while retaining its agility to capture 
opportunities.
A strong foundation for the 
future
We have long believed the market 
opportunity exists to provide customers 
with larger-scale power projects on a semi-
permanent basis in a way that helps them 
to address an often chronic imbalance in 
the supply of and demand for electricity in 
a faster, smarter way. 
Our approach is to build a strong, reliable 
and repeatable platform. We have made 
significant progress in this area in recent 
years, building the capabilities to meet 
our customers’ needs. We have invested 
in an advanced and scalable fleet. We 
have developed our proprietary modular 
building process and have put regional 
hubs in place to serve our strategic 
markets. All of these investments enable 
us to move at pace – winning new 
contracts and continuing to achieve high 
renewal rates, improving mobilisation and 
installation time, while retaining flexibility to 
be both scalable and customisable. 
We have developed strategic partnerships, 
which provide us with reliable, state-of-
the-art technology and around the clock 
support across the world. And, we have 
deliberately differentiated ourselves 
through our broad, technologically 
advanced and scalable fleet, with a 
particular focus on our mobile turbines. 
Through major projects such as Uruguay 
and Libya, we have shown that mobile 
turbine technology does, and will continue 
to, play an important role in the growth 
of the fast-track power solutions market 
as customers look for reliable technology 
with greater power-density and emissions 
control. We have also seen that, by 
employing technologies offering the latest 
advancements in fuel efficiency, we can 
reduce significantly the total operating 
cost for the customer over the use of older, 
more technologically-dated equipment. 
This advantage has helped us win projects 
over the course of the year.
With this strong foundation, we are 
focused on extending and expanding our 
existing portfolio of contracts and growing 
our global footprint via opportunities 
with new customers and in new markets. 
All the while, we continue to evolve and 
enhance our platform through a focus 
on operational excellence and continued 
investment in our people and our assets.
Outlook 
APR Energy believes that the outlook for 
the mobile gas turbine market remains 
positive. The Group continues to see strong 
structural demand for power solutions in 
Africa, Latin America, the Middle East, and 
South East Asia where available new power 
capacity significantly lags growing demand.
The scalability of this technology allows 
large amounts of power to be deployed 
swiftly and efficiently. This, combined with 
low emissions and dual-fuel capability, 
makes turbines the technology of choice 
for customers requiring large-scale, rapidly 
delivered power. The Group is well placed 
to capture opportunities to provide larger-
scale, longer-term power.
Our focus for the year ahead includes 
securing a number of key contracts 
renewals, transferring the GE contracts 
that are due for renewal onto more 
favourable terms or re-deploying these 
assets, developing opportunities through 
our partnership with GE and importantly 
continuing to deliver an improved financial 
and operational performance.
Market expectations for 2014 reflect 
strong year-on-year growth for the Group. 
Subject to fluctuations in exchange rates, 
the Board’s expectations for the current 
financial year remain unchanged.
John Campion
Chief Executive Officer
25 March 2014
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
