 6 | APR Energy | Annual Report 2013
It is a pleasure to report on a year of 
transformational change and significant 
achievement. APR Energy is a growth 
business operating in an attractive and 
growing market. The value our customers 
place on the large-scale, rapidly delivered 
power that we provide is reflected in the 
Group’s successful new contract wins and 
extensions during the year. 
Our mobile turbine technology continues 
to be key in winning new customers. The 
low emission, dual-fuel turbines offer 
quick installation, greater reliability, and 
extended maintenance intervals, providing 
maximum operating flexibility. The turbines’ 
ability to run on diesel or natural gas, also 
makes them available for a broad range of 
applications throughout the world. 
The demand for our power solutions across 
our portfolio of technologies and geographic 
regions remains strong. This, coupled with 
the structural dynamics of the fast-track 
power market, bodes well for the Group’s 
continued growth. 
During 2013, there were two excellent 
examples that illustrate how we are 
benefitting from the rapidly growing global 
market for large-scale power solutions:
l 	 We successfully installed and 
commissioned our 450MW project 
in Libya, providing power to over a 
million people. This is the largest single 
contract in the fast-track power industry 
– a tremendous achievement that was 
successfully executed across multiple 
sites, notwithstanding the challenging 
operating environment.
l 	 Similarly, we commissioned and further 
extended our contract in Uruguay to 
300MW. Featuring mobile gas turbines, 
our plants are now a critical part of the 
country’s power generation infrastructure.
With a diverse pipeline of opportunities, an 
experienced management team, a capable 
workforce and a focused financial discipline, 
the Board believes that the Group is well 
placed to continue to fulfil its significant 
growth potential.
The Board provides active oversight 
to support the Group in securing key 
opportunities and achieving disciplined 
growth. We consider the Group’s risk 
appetite and risk management, in the 
context of material contracts and extensions, 
to ensure that any associated risks, 
including concentration risk, have been 
fully considered. In the case of the Group’s 
significant contract in Libya, this included 
entering into an enhanced credit structure, 
backed by a leading UK Financial Institution, 
which affords us the confidence that all 
payments will be recovered in full. This 
confidence is reflected by the receipt of 
$100 million from our Libyan customer since 
the contract commenced, representing the 
receipt of all outstanding payments.
In October, the Board was pleased to 
announce and complete our acquisition of 
GE’s Power Rental Business. Following this, 
APR Energy became the world’s leading 
provider of fast-track mobile turbine power. 
This transformational transaction allows us 
to move forward rapidly towards delivering 
our objectives.
The transaction also offered attractive 
diversification of our revenue base into new 
markets and sectors, which we believe 
offer significant potential for the future. The 
deal creates a long-term strategic alliance 
with GE, providing a dedicated supply 
of new turbines, a collaborative business 
development platform, and expanded 
access to worldwide support services. 
We are excited to be working closely 
with GE, whose partnership and equity 
commitment is testament to our prospects 
and vision to be the leader in the large-scale, 
fast-track power industry. We welcome GE 
as a key strategic investor in APR Energy 
and their participation on our Board.
The Board continually strives to achieve 
high standards of corporate governance 
and we believe that the observance of these 
standards is in the best interests of all our 
stakeholders. The Board comprises high 
calibre individuals, who possess the range 
of skills and experience needed to ensure 
quality contribution to our decision making. 
We believe that diversity adds significant 
value to the quality of discussion and 
decision making, as reflected by the Board’s 
composition in terms of both gender and 
international representation.
The Board believes that moving to a 
Premium listing would be advantageous for 
the Company and reflects a positive step 
in the Company’s maturity. The Board is 
actively taking steps towards a Premium 
Listing, which it expects to achieve within the 
coming twelve months.
In recognition of the Board’s confidence 
in the Group’s underlying and future 
prospects, the Directors are proposing a 
final dividend for 2013 of 6.7p (2012: 6.7p) 
per share. With the interim dividend of 
3.3p (2012: 3.3p), this results in a full year 
dividend of 10.0p (2012: 10.0p). Subject 
to shareholders’ approval at the Annual 
General Meeting on 20 May 2014, the final 
dividend will be payable on 3 June 2014 to 
shareholders on the register as at 4 April 
2014. The Board will continue to maintain 
a regular review of its dividend policy and 
reiterates its intention to pay an annual 
dividend.
2013 was a transformational year for 
APR Energy and one which we exited 
strongly. We have a highly motivated and 
experienced management team and have 
made real progress in advancing our 
strategy to deliver power solutions to our 
increasing customer base where and when 
they are needed. We remain confident that 
the Group will create significant shareholder 
value in the future.
Mike Fairey 
Chairman
25 March 2014
Chairman’s Statement
A year of transformational change and significant achievement 
provides strong foundation for continued growth in the fast evolving 
global market for large scale, rapidly delivered power.
Mike Fairey, Chairman
