 Chief executive’s statement | 03 Northern Foods plc
Chief executive’s statement
Jo Stewart
Our aim remains the creation of shareholder value as the most effective
added value food manufacturer addressing the UK retail market.
By focusing on the supply of added value products to the major retailers,
and on innovation and the highest food standards, we have positioned
ourselves to benefit from the key long term trends in our market 
place. Organisational and strategic refinement, combined with prudent
investment, are designed to drive further improvements in our
competitiveness.
Market environment
In a time of increasing economic uncertainty, the food market stands out 
for its long term overall stability. The sectors on which we have chosen to
focus continue to outperform the market as a whole, driven by consumer
demand for increasing convenience and quality. The UK retailing
environment, always demanding, awaits the outcome of the competition
authorities’ review of the various options for further consolidation. However
this finally unfolds, we believe that Northern Foods is strongly placed as a
well-invested business capable of meeting retailer needs for innovation,
quality assurance, service and value.
Retailer consolidation will inevitably be matched by rationalisation of their
supply base, and some players will not survive this process. This may lead 
to some instability, but this should correct itself as a more stable supply base
emerges. We are confident that Northern Foods will be a winner from the
further consolidation of food manufacturing in the UK.
Business focus
We continuously review our portfolio to ensure that we have the right 
profile to achieve the returns and value generation we seek. The changes 
we have made in recent years, through acquisitions, disposals and
investments in new facilities, have been designed to drive Northern Foods
further up the scale of both added value and convenience. Good examples 
of this include the development of new facilities to manufacture chilled 
ready meals and stonebaked pizzas, and our withdrawal from van sales 
of savoury pastry products. We remain confident that our recent major
investment and restructuring projects have been accurately targeted 
and will deliver the expected returns. In the near term, we anticipate levels 
of capital expenditure to be similar to last year as we concentrate on 
delivery from these past initiatives.
Trading
Our Convenience businesses have delivered good top line growth, based 
on the positive consumer and retailer trends we had identified. This has also
been translated into strong profit progress. Clearly performance in Grocery
has been disappointing, chiefly as a result of intense competitor activity in
biscuits, including the entry of new players from the confectionery sector 
and significant increases in cocoa costs. Despite these well-publicised issues,
Fox’s remains one of the strongest and most profitable brands in its sector,
and urgent action is being taken to stabilise the business through accelerated
new product development, price increases and cost reductions. Our other
Grocery businesses, principally in the frozen foods sector, have continued 
to perform well.
Synergy development
Central to the Northern Foods proposition is the belief that each of our
activities should have bespoke strategies tailored to their precise market 
type, positioning and customer profile. We then seek to overlay scale and
synergy benefits that reflect the size and strength of our group. These are
concentrated in six key areas:
– market development and customer relations, including the identification
of market trends and opportunities and the exploitation of group strengths
to drive category management for our key customers;
– productivity, with an emphasis on continuously improving the effectiveness
of our manufacturing activities and supply chain;
– procurement, ensuring that correct standards are applied and cost
reduction strategies developed to optimise value in use of the materials 
we purchase;
– food technology, applying the latest scientific advances in a practical 
way to aid innovation and productivity across the business;
– systems, both in management processes and information technology,
to provide a common platform for use within our business activities;
– people, including recruitment, training and development, and the effective
deployment of management resources.
Over the last year, we have placed particular emphasis on productivity 
and procurement. We have a common group-wide approach to the
measurement and improvement of manufacturing performance, utilising 
a lean manufacturing template to drive efficiencies in our factories. This 
is accompanied by the strengthening of our group buying disciplines for 
raw materials and packaging, which will enhance consistency and quality 
as well as delivering cost savings.
These initiatives are assisted by our investment in systems, with the roll-out
of a common SAP platform for all our companies well advanced and poised
to deliver further benefits in the future.
Prospects
We will continue to refine our portfolio to ensure that it is attuned both 
to market trends and to our core competencies as a group. Relationships 
with our key retailer partners will continue to be fostered to ensure we
become even closer and more proactive, with a high priority accorded to
innovation, and synergies between our businesses exploited ever more
systematically. Our ability to cope with testing times has been strengthened
by the strategy and investments we have put in place, and our teams have
demonstrated great resilience and dedication in defending and building our
business, and seeking new opportunities for growth.
Jo Stewart 
Chief executive
