 02 | Chairman’s statement Northern Foods plc
Chairman’s statement
Peter Blackburn
Trading results were below our original plan, primarily due to disappointing
results in biscuits. Progress in other key areas resulted in earnings per 
share growth, despite tightening market conditions, disposal dilution and
significant cost pressures.
We are responding to the challenges of our market place through
determined and co-ordinated action.We are driving operational
improvements throughout the group, notably by a greater focus on
leveraging synergies in productivity, procurement and systems. Specific
action is being taken to stabilise and improve our performance in
biscuits.We will continue to review our portfolio to ensure that we
concentrate on activities where we can achieve and retain competitive
advantage and a strong customer franchise.
Results
Continuing sales grew by 5.0 per cent to £1,421.2 million, driven by strong
progress in our Convenience chilled food operations, though total sales were
2.6 per cent lower as a result of the disposal of the Ski and Munch Bunch
brands to Nestlé UK in April 2002. Underlying sales trends, excluding the
effects of divestments and currency movements, improved in the last three
months of the financial year, after a slower performance in the third quarter.
Continuing operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items was up 0.5 per cent at £115.6 million, with improved results from our
Convenience operations offset by a decline in Grocery as a result of our poor
performance in biscuits. Dilution from disposals and the cost of the share
buyback programme depressed profit before taxation, goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items, which was 3.5 per cent lower at £97 .5 million.
The reduction in share capital, together with a lower underlying tax charge,
resulted in enhanced earnings per share before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items, which improved by 6.5 per cent to 14.81 pence.
The disposal of Ski and Munch Bunch generated a £54.0 million exceptional
profit, which has been partially offset by £42.6 million of reorganisation costs
and asset impairment. As a result, on an FRS 3 basis, pre-tax profit increased
by 27 .5 per cent to £105.8 million, and earnings per share by 61.9 per cent 
to 18.73 pence, compared with the previous year.
Dividend and share buyback
The board recommends an increased final dividend of 5.45 pence per 
share (2002: 5.15 pence). Together with the increased interim dividend 
of 3.25 pence paid in March, this makes a total dividend for the year of 
8.70 pence, a rise of 6.1 per cent. We remain committed to a progressive
dividend policy, taking account of the long term earnings potential and 
cash flow of the group.
In addition, we continued to make market purchases of our shares
for cancellation, acquiring a total of 36.4 million shares, representing 
6.5 per cent of our equity, at a cost of £55.5 million. This brings the
total to £106.5 million since we began our share buyback programme
in February 2000.
Strategic priorities
In a climate of intense food retailer competition, it is more important than
ever that Northern Foods leverages its scale advantages in procurement and
ensures that best practice in productivity, food technology and systems is
applied throughout the group. We are working with increasing dedication 
and effectiveness to ensure that we maximise these opportunities, and deliver 
the planned returns on our investments. The sale of Ski and Munch Bunch 
has demonstrated our willingness to adjust our portfolio when appropriate,
and we will continue to examine all aspects of our business to ensure that 
we focus on activities where we have a real competitive edge as the base 
for delivering shareholder value.
The board
Following extensive changes to the non-executive directorate in 2002, we
further improved the strength and balance of the board with the appointment
of two new executive directors in January 2003. Matthew Gribbin, 45, has
been with Northern Foods for over 20 years and Howard Sims, 55, joined 
the company in 1998 on the acquisition of Cavaghan & Gray plc, of which 
he was Chief executive.
Corporate social responsibility
Northern Foods has a long tradition of sensitivity to social issues and of
supporting the disadvantaged in our society. During the year we have taken
further steps to clarify the principles on which we conduct our relations with
all our stakeholders: shareholders, employees, customers and consumers,
suppliers, the communities in which we operate, and the wider environment.
Outlook
Sales in the first seven weeks of the current year are up 7 .6 per cent overall,
and up 9.5 per cent with our five largest customers. This strong start was
assisted by the timing of Easter and recent new business gains, although we
anticipate that progress may moderate in the months ahead. In a demanding
trading climate, we are pursuing a range of initiatives to enhance efficiencies
and returns across the group. Action is being taken in our biscuit businesses 
to recover inflation, reduce costs and accelerate new product development;
this is helping to arrest the trend of the second half of last year, though 
biscuit trading is expected to dampen Grocery performance in the first half.
The entire Northern Foods team shares my determination that the group 
will fulfil its potential by delivering appropriate returns on our investments
and maximising the potential of our strong positions in the growing
convenience food market.
Peter Blackburn
Chairman
28 May 2003
