 Q
+
A
with the Chief Executive:
Pat O’Driscoll answers questions on 
the changes and progress made in 
Northern Foods over the last 12 months
Q. Can you outline the priorities for GET FIT?
A. Our priorities in the short term are to improve performance 
in the Chilled division with a simpler and leaner divisional structure,
to lower overhead costs and to capture category and customer
opportunities. We will also continue to leverage scale through 
central procurement and continuous improvement in manufacturing.
Q. How long will it take? When can we expect 
to see returns?
A. We are committed to a major business transformation over 
three years to 2007. We expect to see benefits coming through 
this year and accelerating next year as the changes gain momentum.
Q. Performance has been in decline for a number 
of years – is the turnaround achievable?
A. Yes it is, and the increasingly tough trading conditions mean 
we have to accelerate the pace of our GET FIT programme delivery.
In our strategic business review we clearly identified our strengths and
weaknesses and now our energy is totally focused on implementing
the strategy for performance and improvement.
Q. How will we know if it is working?
A. The signs of success are already visible in the many changes 
and innovations that are emerging. Tracking that progress is a key
component of the GET FIT programme and we have developed
management information tools which will help us identify successes
and measure performance against defined metrics.
Q. The marketplace is getting tougher. How will you
retain the savings that you expect from the GET FIT
initiatives and will you be able to invest in growth?
A. We will achieve this by accelerating the pace of delivery for sales
growth, lowering competitive costs by improving our Chilled performance,
by pursuing efficiency gains and by building on our successes. We are
continuing to invest in growth and in our customer proposition.
Q. Do you have the right management team 
in place now?
A. I am very pleased with the calibre of our restructured management
team.We have a very strong group board and a dynamic operating board
which combines the right mix of business expertise and functional
excellence. I am confident in the new management team’s ability 
to address the issues we face and achieve our business ambition 
at the pace our shareholders require.
12 Q&A with the Chief Executive Northern Foods plc
               Q. Northern has historically grown through
acquisition. What are your plans in this area 
for the future?
A. We took the strategic decision to sell a number of businesses
where we did not have the scale to compete or where the business
was not focused on our key categories. The approach has freed 
us up to focus with absolute clarity on transforming our current
business. However, we do recognise that a consolidating sector 
such as ours offers opportunities for acquisition. We are therefore
receptive to acquisitions which would help us build or maintain
market leadership in categories that are important to us. We will
consider each opportunity as it arises on the criteria of whether 
it enhances shareholder value.
Q. How are you adding skills to Northern Foods
people to cope with the scale and pace of change 
it is facing?
A. The company is aligning people behind our ambition by asking
them to think and act in different ways – to challenge ideas, identify
opportunities and accept that change is a constant. There is a clear
responsibility on the management team to lead people through this
journey and provide them with the tools and coaching they need 
to succeed. The GET FIT programme includes a number of specific
initiatives to support this need. Examples include the creation of
project working groups at site level to drive continuous improvement,
the roll-out of a leadership development programme and the
introduction of performance-related remuneration. IT solutions are
also being harnessed to support change, providing access to online
learning materials and best practice case studies. Everyone has
potential. It is my responsibility to ensure it can flourish.
Q. Are there more major organisational 
changes to come?
A. An organisation that does not continually ask “How can 
we improve?” is an organisation that will not lead the market.
As we transform Northern Foods we will aggressively pursue 
the optimum operating model and the best people in the market.
Q. How are you addressing the impact 
of business change on your customers?
A. Our mission is to be the ‘supplier of choice to UK and Irish
retailers in added value convenience foods’ and the integration 
of our business underpins the delivery of that mission. By working 
as ‘One Northern’, the company has been able to streamline its
commercial approach and manage key customer relationships more
effectively. That in turn has let us identify new opportunities to
innovate and add value. We are working hard to communicate the
rationale for changes and the positive responses we have received
indicate that we are on the right track. During this period of business
transformation we need to ensure that our high reputation for quality
and delivery is not affected and we are keeping a careful eye on this.
Q. What are your criteria for category focus 
and how will success be achieved?
A. Our strategic business review highlighted consumer demands for
choice and convenience. Within our chosen categories we can provide
convenient, added value meals, snacks and treats. We operate in
categories where we have strong market positions, in either private
label or brands, and we can use our manufacturing scale to achieve
competitive costs. We are clear on the range of category and customer
opportunities we will target.
Q. How are you reflecting the changing 
eating trends of consumers?
A. Three dominant trends drive today’s consumer eating habits:
convenience; a desire for indulgence, taste and quality; and the
fulfilment of healthy eating goals. Northern Foods wide range 
of meals, snacks and treats provides choices in all three areas.
We need to excel in what we do and will succeed by monitoring
changing food trends, capturing consumer feedback and working
closely with our customers to adapt our ranges and develop new
products which support emerging trends.
Q. Can you describe ‘One Northern’ – is it a brand?
A. ‘One Northern’ is the term we use to describe our newly 
integrated approach to running our business. It describes how 
we can address the market more powerfully as a single business,
how we can capitalise on our scale and knowledge by centralising 
key activities and functions, and how we can perform at pace by
planning as a single team and focusing our people on shared goals.
Over time we expect former operating company names to be replaced
with Northern Foods branding to reflect this management shift.
We are committed 
to a major business
transformation 
over three years
Northern Foods plc Q&A with the Chief Executive 13
                 
