 2 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09 
Chairman’s 
review
Anthony Hobson
Chairman 3 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008/09
Shareholder information Highlights Directors’ report Financial statements
and acquisition led investments. The Board 
has considered that the prudent approach 
is to maintain the dividend at the prior year 
level of 4.50p per share, giving a dividend 
cover of 1.7 times from pre-restructuring 
cash ﬂ ows. The ﬁ nal dividend of 2.95p 
per share will be payable in August 2009.
Key to our future success is attracting 
and retaining the right management talent. 
We have made a number of important and 
high quality appointments during the year 
and enhanced our performance culture. 
A focus on efﬁ ciency and innovation is 
at the heart of everything we do and is a 
key building block in our reward structures. 
During the year we took the difﬁ cult 
decision to mothball our Fenland Foods 
site, when we were unable to reach 
agreement with the main customer of that 
site which would ensure its ﬁ nancial viability. 
At our Hull ready meals site, the conclusion 
of negotiations with our main customer 
of that site has led to a termination of 
the supply contracts. As a result, we are 
consulting with our employees on a 
proposal to cease production and close 
the site. Our decision to discontinue supply 
contracts reﬂ ects the need for the Group 
to eliminate unproﬁ table, or marginal, 
business, and ensure that Northern Foods 
is best placed to succeed in this very 
competitive environment.
We also continue to evaluate a proposal 
to invest in a new world class biscuit 
manufacturing facility. In a highly 
competitive market, this is a signiﬁ cant 
initiative for us, but the current volatile and 
difﬁ cult economic conditions mean that the 
decision process is complex. The Board 
fully recognises the impact these difﬁ cult 
choices have on our employees and their 
local communities. Our top priority is 
to continue our timely communication 
with all those affected and to ensure 
that the consequences of our decisions 
are mitigated as far as possible.
Overview 
In a tough market and set against a 
backdrop of a recessionary environment, 
Northern Foods has continued to grow into 
a stronger and more effective business, 
which is well placed in our sector. We 
are delivering growth in value products 
alongside our traditional premium ranges; 
maintaining our drive towards lowering 
costs and increasing efﬁ ciency; and 
targeting investment and new channels 
to develop our business.
Performance and dividend 
Despite very challenging trading conditions; 
continued high commodity costs; the 
impact of the stronger Euro for our non-UK 
operations; and investment to build our 
brands, we have reported a proﬁ t from 
operations* of £52.7m, an increase of 
nearly 9% on the previous year. After a 
lower pension ﬁ nancing credit (reﬂ ecting 
reduced asset returns), we reported a 
proﬁ t before tax* of £47.5m (2007/08: £50.1m). 
Underlying proﬁ t before tax
4
 increased 
by 13% to £39.0m (2007/08: £34.4m). 
During the year we spent £11.0m on a share 
buy-back programme which beneﬁ ted 
our earnings per share. Adjusted EPS
6
 
was 7.76p (2007/08: 7.88p) whilst underlying 
EPS
2
 increased by 15% to 6.45p (2007/08: 
5.62p). Proﬁ t for the period
1
 was £2.5m 
(2007/08: £34.5m), after restructuring 
items of £35.4m (2007/08: £4.7m) and the 
withdrawal of tax allowances of £12.5m. 
Our balance sheet is strong with a new 
revolving credit facility in place to 2012. 
Your Board is strongly committed to 
enhancing shareholder value and 
maintaining a strong balance sheet. 
We have, in this challenging and uncertain 
economic environment, to be prudent 
and ensure that we have the capacity to 
maintain the appropriate levels of organic 
These are challenging market conditions, 
but our operational and ﬁ nancial strengths 
position us favourably to address these 
markets; to continue our good progress; 
and to build a strong business
In other initiatives, we succeeded in winning 
a major contract (jointly with DHL) to supply 
British Airways with on-board catering for 
its short haul ﬂ eet starting in 2010. This 
takes us into a new market, which plays to 
our strength in providing high quality and 
innovative convenience food. We have also 
been enhancing our customer base by 
building strong relationships with discount 
retailers and developing our range of value 
products, which are becoming increasingly 
important in these difﬁ cult times. 
Our employees
The challenging market in which we 
operate requires the very best from our 
colleagues within Northern Foods. Our loyal 
employees have contributed greatly to our 
results in this challenging year and I would 
like to thank them for their continuing efforts.
Your Board
Your Board has continued to beneﬁ t from 
the skills and depth of experience available 
to support the management team and 
I thank colleagues for their continued 
commitment and support. Andy Booker, 
Group Finance Director, joined the Board 
in November 2008, replacing Jez Maiden 
who left the Group to take up a role at 
National Express Group plc. Jez made 
a very important contribution during his 
three years at Northern Foods and we 
wish him well.
Summary
We have much still to do to realise our 
potential and deliver value for all our 
stakeholders. However, we have made 
good progress over the past few years, 
in restructuring and repositioning your 
business for success. We are operationally 
and ﬁ nancially stronger; have a high quality 
management team and are a better 
balanced and more resilient business. 
These are challenging market conditions, 
but our operational and ﬁ nancial strengths 
position us favourably to address these 
markets; to continue our good progress; 
and to build a strong business.
Anthony Hobson
Chairman
27 May 2009
