 04 Chief executive’s review Northern Foods plc
Chief executive’s review
We will return Northern Foods to 
steady top and bottom line growth 
by making great tasting food that
shoppers want to buy again and again
Stefan Barden
Chief executive Northern Foods plc Chief executive’s review 05
Delivering our agenda
The past year has been one of 
real progress for Northern Foods.
The strategic review, announced in
May 2006, set out our plans to create
a firm foundation on which to build.
We set out to:
> create a more focused business around
strong brands and growing retailer own 
label relationships through a major 
disposal programme;
> simplify our Chilled division;
> achieve strong positive cash generation 
and effective capital management; and
> reduce corporate central costs.
I am pleased to report that we have successfully
delivered our disposal programme and have
achieved measurable progress against our
other objectives, providing a firm foundation
for future growth across Northern Foods.
Creating a foundation for future growth
From this sound foundation, I believe we can
deliver operational and revenue improvements
for the future.
We have a clear strategy, to:
> focus on attractive market segments;
> partner with customers who require
quality, innovation and high levels 
of service;
> deliver through a low cost, high
performance business model.
Attractive market segments
We will focus particularly on markets with strong
growth potential, which reflect the consumer
drivers of convenience, indulgence and a healthy,
balanced lifestyle. Five of our market segments
grew by an average of 9% last year – Ready meals,
Sandwiches, Salads, Pizza and Christmas puddings –
and in four of these segments we were ranked
number one or two in terms of revenue.Another
key market for us is Biscuits.While it is not a major
sales growth opportunity for us, we recognise
significant profit improvement potential and 
we remain committed to achieving this.
These six segments account for 87% of our
revenue.Top line growth will be limited to where
this can be delivered profitably. In some areas 
we are capacity constrained but investment 
will be limited to ensure adequate returns are
achieved, while we will continue to exit business
which remains unprofitable.
Partnering selected customers
We partner with customers and invest 
in assets that can give them competitive
advantage in their product ranges. Since we
focus on the premium tiers in retailer own
brand (ROB) ranges – such as Finest, Extra
Special or The Best – our products are
disproportionately important in building
retailers’ own brand images. We strive to
deliver ‘shopper loyalty’ and above average
sales growth for retailers – not just products.
Our customers ask for slightly different things,
but in general they all agree that they want:
> great tasting food;
> made safely;
> delivered correctly; and
> at the right price.
Success will come from continuing to listen 
to our customers and profitably delivering what
they require better than other manufacturers,
and we are working to deliver this success:
> Independent tests show that many 
of our products taste better than those 
of our competitors. Repeat purchase rates 
for many of our products are regularly
amongst the best in our markets;
> Our food safety processes and technologists
are amongst the very best in the country.
We are the only food manufacturer with 
a food laboratory that has dual accreditation
from the UK Government’s Accreditation
Service (UKAS). This covers both our food
testing laboratories and on site technical
evaluation activities and means we are 
able to deliver independent third party
audits and assessments. We have been
instrumental in codifying many of the
chilled food industry’s hygiene and
manufacturing policies and standards;
> Our service delivery to customers remains
consistently at the very highest levels.
We regularly receive customer accolades
and awards in this area. We are building 
a reputation as a ‘can do’ manufacturer,
able to respond to customer requests
quickly, be it step changes in product
demand or delivering a high quality 
new product brief within days; and
> Our products are seen as being good value
for money (although we do not focus on
lower quality, ‘value’ products).
Low cost operating model
Our strategy is being delivered through the
expert management teams we have in place 
in each of our retained businesses. Each team
has responsibility and accountability for its
own performance. Each knows its market and
customer base and can respond quickly and
profitably to opportunities and challenges 
in their target market.
Y ear on Y ear
market growth %
Ready meals
6
Sandwiches
7
Salads (wet and prepared)
8
Pizza (frozen and chilled)
8
Christmas Puddings
9
Biscuits
8
Average growth
We are focused on attractive
markets, growing at a 
weighted average of 6%
6
TNS MAT 25/03/07
7
TNS Impulse Food on the Go MAT 25/03/07
8
AC Nielsen Scantrack MAT 24/03/07
9
Internal estimate (including retail and own brand 
catering events and other)
7
13
15
9
1
1
6 06 Chief executive’s review Northern Foods plc
Chilled division
Our Ready meals business competes in 
a market created by Northern Foods and 
M&S in partnership some 30 years ago.
This business has been one of our most
challenging in recent years. In spite of making
great products, we have failed to deliver an
acceptable level of profitability. Excess market
capacity and a high ‘cost to serve’ operating
model have adversely impacted margins.
Our Chilled simplification programme is
starting to deliver demonstrable improvement.
The UK retail ready meals market is now worth
more than £1.5 billion and is growing at nearly
7% annually
6
. Increasingly constrained market
capacity, coupled with our complexity
reduction programme, should allow margin
recovery ahead of considering new investment.
Our Ready meals revenue continues to
improve, and in the last quarter we became
market leader with a 19% value share
10
.
Our great tasting meals reflect the unique
skills of our chefs and production teams,
coupled with our ingredient sourcing and
manufacturing capabilities. These drive 
high levels of repeat purchase and resultant 
retailer demand on which we are capitalising.
Concurrently, we are working to improve our
margins, through correctly pricing our core
business and ensuring we charge fully for 
the value of meeting customers’ additional
requirements.
Our Ready meals recovery programme will
take time to deliver and may not be a smooth
path, but we believe we have the right plans in
place to continue this business unit’s recovery.
Our other Chilled business unit is Sandwiches
& Salads. This business requires an exceptional
focus on service due to the very short shelf life
of its chilled products; less than 48 hours from
time of manufacture and sometimes even
shorter. We have a critical role in helping
retailers maximise their own sales, while
minimising waste, by delivering their daily
orders exactly as requested. This is a real
challenge in the changeable British climate,
which causes day to day orders to fluctuate
significantly.
The largest market within this business unit is
sandwiches. The UK multiple retailer sandwich
market is worth £577m and is growing at 13%
annually
7
. Consumers are reducing homemade
consumption in favour of quality products in
an ever increasing choice of carriers (breads)
and fillings. Northern Foods is ranked number
three in this market with a 14%
7
share, and
our two sandwich customers, Tesco and M&S,
are the market leaders, offering good growth
potential for us. Our customers’ summer
product launches will benefit from our strong
innovation capability, with many of our breads
and wraps coming directly from our in house
traditional bakery.
The wet and prepared salads markets together
are worth £407m and are growing at an
average of 15% annually
8
. Healthy living 
and summer eating are driving demand and
Northern Foods’ market share reached 18% 
in 2006/07
8
, putting us at number two in 
the market. Again, outstanding service and
premium quality credentials underpin our
success.We operate close to capacity in the peak
summer months and have committed to a
£9m expansion of our Corby production facility.
Frozen division
Our Frozen business produces and markets
strong brands which we continue to expand
and develop. In Pizza, we have the UK’s
number one brand, Goodfella’s, with 31.5% 
of the frozen segment
8
. We are not, however,
restricted to frozen pizza. The total UK pizza
market is valued at nearly £700m and growing
at 9% annually
8
. In addition to Goodfella’s,
we produce the leading ROB chilled pizza
range for Tesco. We are currently exploring
how best to leverage our market leadership
and technology capability across the combined
frozen and chilled segments. At the same time,
we continue to grow and consolidate our
leadership in frozen, successfully innovating
and refreshing the product range; indeed,
Goodfella’s Solos was named the fastest
growing brand in the UK in 2006
11
.
With frozen Pizza representing 51% of
divisional revenue, our other frozen food
brands represent valuable parts of our
portfolio. Both the Green Isle and Donegal
Catch brands are market leaders in Ireland and
are well placed to capitalise on healthy eating
trends. For example, our Donegal Catch fish
business has grown 20% over the past year
through the delivery of healthy, innovative
product ranges. We see significant scope to
expand our product portfolio through different
routes to the consumer and we will update 
on these programmes when appropriate.
Meanwhile, Grassington’s Food Co., our 
Meat-free range of vegetable meals and meal
accompaniments, has consolidated its position
in the UK. Our total Meat-free market share
has overtaken Linda McCartney to become
number two in the market
8
. At the same 
time, we are working to resolve our areas of
underperformance within the Frozen division,
which have been adversely affected by healthy
eating trends. The meat and pastry markets
have faced significant challenges in the past
year as consumers change their diets. As a
result our Dalepak meat grill and Holland’s
meat pie brands have disappointed and we are
working hard on plans to improve performance
to meet our strict shareholder return criteria.
10
TNS 12 weeks ending 25/03/07
11
The Grocer January 2007
We manage a portfolio of strong retained businesses
Ready meals Sandwiches & Salads Pizza Biscuits Puddings Northern Foods plc Chief executive’s review 07
Bakery division
In Biscuits we participate in one of the largest
snacking product markets, worth £1.87 billion
annually, but a combination of our limited
market share at 11%
12
and annual market
growth of only 1%
8
make this a difficult space
in which to operate. However, after a recent
profit decline, we do believe that we have
stabilised the business and that there is good
value to be created through focusing on product
innovation and selected investment. Our
initiatives focus on simplification, automation,
and innovation driven top line growth.
To deliver this improvement better, we have
reorganised our management team around
three segments, each of which addresses a
different consumer need; requires a different
customer sales pitch; and has a different
supply chain structure and assets:
> ‘Everyday’ biscuits, under the Fox’s brand,
continues to meet consumer needs through
its strong stable of sub-brands, including
Rocky, Echo and Classic, and will be
supported by expansion into the ‘indulgent’
and ‘children’s biscuits’ segments, where
market growth exists;
> In ‘Seasonal’ biscuits we enjoy segment
leadership with a portfolio led by the
Creations brand, and a large range of
bespoke products for retailers. Production 
is complex and labour intensive and 
will benefit from targeted automation;
> In ‘Retailer Own Brand’ biscuits we are a
strong and innovative partner for our retailer
customers and will exploit surplus capacity
from our asset base where a low cost
position can be sustained.
Overall, we look to deliver medium term
improvement in our Biscuits business as our
newly installed teams implement their plans.
Finally, our Puddings business has good
growth potential. Over two thirds of all
Christmas puddings purchased are made 
by us
9
and we have identified a further
expansion opportunity in the premium
Christmas market. This year we will test
market a premium Matthew Walker Christmas
pudding. Drawing on original Victorian recipes,
this will be the definitive Christmas Pudding.
Consumer research has helped develop an
exciting concept from the ‘original’ Christmas
Pudding maker and retailers will benefit from
the branded price premium.
Reduced factory complexity costs will result
from offering the brand to many of our
smaller trade customers who currently have
their own bespoke recipes at high cost to both
partners. A successful test will result in a full
launch in 2008.
Outlook
The past year has been one of real progress 
for Northern Foods, as we delivered against
our key objectives, successfully completing 
our disposal programme and creating a
focused business for the future.
This year will see further progress in the
transition of the group. We expect to see
continued opportunities for revenue growth
and improved performance, particularly 
in the attractive Chilled markets. However,
challenges remain, especially in Biscuits,
where we are experiencing a sustained
increase in input costs.
Nonetheless, I am confident that our increased
focus and improved financial position mean
we are well placed to deliver steady top 
and bottom line growth and create value 
for shareholders.
Stefan Barden
30 May 2007
Ready meals
Our great tasting ready meals,
which reflect the unique skills of 
our chefs and production teams,
are driving market growth
Sandwiches
& Salads
Our customers will benefit from 
our strong innovation capability and 
our outstanding reputation for service
Pizza
In Pizza we have the UK’s 
number one brand – Goodfella’s.
We have a strong innovation 
agenda for this year
Biscuits
Biscuits is a profit, not a top line 
growth opportunity for us
Puddings
Building on our heritage, this year 
will see us launch the ‘definitive
Christmas pudding’ under 
the Matthew Walker brand
12
Internal estimate (combined Retail and Own Brand share)
This year will see further progress 
in the transition of the group
