 Chief executive’s report
Our progress is built on a simple strategy,
which creates a clear point of difference
between Northern Foods and other 
food companies
Stefan Barden
Chief Executive Dear Shareholders
I am pleased to report that Northern Foods
is delivering steady top and bottom line 
growth. This is driven by our focus on
making great tasting food that consumers
want to buy again and again… and again. 
Every day, in thousands of stores around the UK and Ireland,
millions of people are casting their vote for food cooked 
by Northern Foods’ chefs every time one of our products 
is purchased. Their vote is the ultimate test of the quality 
and value for money we deliver every day. 
Understanding how consumers view the products we deliver 
day in, day out is crucial to our success. Each of our businesses
focuses on our most important performance measure – the
‘number of units sold of each product, per store, per week’. We
are constantly seeking to improve our performance against this
and, as a result, in 2007/08 we have delivered greater sales revenue.
However, it is not sufficient for us simply to grow the business. 
We also have to do so profitably, driving enhanced returns 
for shareholders. This requires tough choices to be made. 
We have culled poor selling products, exited unprofitable retailer
own label contracts and eliminated unprofitable promotions. 
We have driven efficiencies across the business, taking out 
cost where sufficient value is not added or where we are not
achieving world class performance. We invest and utilise cash
selectively across the Group, targeting additional returns.
This disciplined, performance orientated approach has improved
profitability. We continue to generate free cash flow. Our strong
balance sheet provides a solid platform for growth; this year we
funded a share buy-back and three bolt-on acquisitions which
will strengthen the business. 
This was all delivered against a backcloth of unprecedented
market volatility, in which significant commodity cost increases
have been successfully recovered. We have demonstrated that
the basics of running the business are now in place; we have
identified and made good progress in eliminating the priority
performance issues of a year ago; and, most importantly, 
we continue to build a better business. 
Our strategy
Our progress is built on a simple strategy which creates a 
clear point of difference between Northern Foods and other
food companies. This strategy has three priorities. 
Strategic priority one: targeting attractive, growing 
market segments 
Our target markets grew at a weighted average of 5.2% in
2007/08 and, we forecast, similar growth over the next couple 
of years. In uncertain times, Northern Foods benefits from
operating across diverse food markets. These can be
characterised in a number of ways; for example, by temperature
(chilled, ambient and frozen), by lifestyle (healthy, indulgent), 
or by season (winter biased, summer biased). This gives us an
element of natural hedge that reduces (but does not eliminate)
some of the volatility to which our Group is exposed.
During 2007/08, we have consolidated our position in our five
selected markets, with three bolt-on acquisitions which added 
new capacity for us but which did not expand market supply, so
helping us maintain our pricing power with our retail customers: 
> in Ready Meals we acquired two facilities: Ethnic Cuisine, 
which supplies Sainsbury’s with Chinese ready meals; and 
the Baxter’s chilled soup site in Grimsby;
> in Frozen Pastry, we bought the rights to the McDougalls
frozen pastry assets and brands, which we have successfully
transferred to our Irish facility in Portumna. 
Each of these acquisitions was completed at an attractive cost
to us and two came with experienced workforces. We have also
grown organically. We had a good year in our Chilled division,
despite the poor summer weather, and our performance in
Biscuits was particularly pleasing. 
Strategic priority two: focusing on customers that value quality
and service
We are working with customers who are scale players, with single
points of negotiation and few distribution points. These customers
value what we do: making great tasting food, to the highest food
safety standards, delivered promptly, at the right price. 
We are focused on creating a true point of difference between
ourselves and our competitors. This point of difference gives 
our retail customers the benefit of improved ‘repeat purchase’ 
by their shoppers. Improved ‘rate of sale, per store, per week’
translates into ‘above average category growth’ for our customers.
This approach helps us to build our customers’ businesses 
by giving them crucial ‘shopper loyalty’.
Ready meals
5
Sandwiches
6
Salads (wet and prepared)
7
Pizza (frozen and chilled)
7
Christmas Puddings
8
Biscuits
7
Average growth
Year on year market growth
2.2
7.0
7.5
6.8
0
6.3
5.2
Our chosen markets are growing at a weighted average of 5.2%
5
TNS Worldpanel 52 w/e 23/03/08
6
TNS Scantrack MAT 15/03/08
7
ACN Scantrack MAT 22/03/08
8
Internal estimate
Northern Foods plc | Chief executive’s report 5 The Corporate social responsibility (CSR) agenda is increasingly
important to both ourselves and our customers. Northern Foods
is a leader in this, building on our strong heritage and supporting
our customers in delivering their specific commitments and
targets. Our CSR report explains more about our achievements 
and plans, from which all of our stakeholders, including our
customers, benefit. 
We seek to maintain good, professional relationships with 
all of our customers. We see ourselves as custodians of our
shareholders’ investments in assets which supply the retailers. 
We believe that we have an obligation to our customers to provide
them with food which improves their business and, in return, 
we have an obligation to our shareholders to generate an
acceptable return on any investment we make in each retailer. 
Strategic priority three: a low cost operating model
We have adopted a low cost operating model. We are developing
and strengthening our culture of effective cash and capital
management. Improved disciplines have seen capital invested
much more selectively, focused on good margin business 
which generates real returns for our shareholders. The capital
investment we currently require remains well below our historic
depreciation (although increased expenditure will be made
where future returns are strong). Working capital is also tightly
managed. Helping to drive this culture within the Group, 
each business is now charged weekly a notional sum for 
the shareholders’ capital that it utilises. 
Our ‘cost out’ agenda has been a key contributor to our
increased margins. Across the business we are driving efficiency
through a combination of rationalisation and investment in
automation. As part of this, we have reduced our corporate
centre in Leeds to just one floor, housing only 35 people,
completing our £12m central cost reduction programme. 
Performance culture and talent agenda
As our strategy begins to deliver results, we are working hard 
to embed success throughout the organisation. Key to this is
our focus on building a performance culture and differentiating
ourselves through our talent agenda. 
We employ nearly 11,000 colleagues. To get the best results every
day requires a strong performance culture. Empowered, focused
business units, operating with disciplined weekly reporting,
ensures that everyone is committed to delivering their promises. 
Taking individual responsibility for actions has allowed us to take
out management tiers. This has reduced cost, enabled faster
decision making and created ownership of results. We have also
worked hard to make remuneration more variable – with greater
upside for results and clear action on under-performance.
In an industry short of available talent, we want to be an
employer of choice. We are committed to developing our talent
at every level. This was one reason why I accepted, on behalf 
of Northern Foods, a directorship on the Board of ‘Improve’, 
the government’s Sector Skills Council for the food manufacturing
industry. In addition, we have signed the government’s ‘Skills
Pledge’ which commits Northern Foods to aspiring to give all 
of our employees the opportunity to be trained to an accredited
standard. We are the first food manufacturer to have done this.
Across our workforce, we are working with service providers 
to deliver certification in food safety, as well as training in
continuous improvement, product development, health and
safety, and lean manufacturing. 
A further demonstration of our commitment to our employees’
training and development agenda can be seen in our 
re-activated graduate training programme. We have committed
£450,000 to helping 150 technical graduates through university
over the next five years, boosting food science resource for the
industry as well as ourselves. 
Summary
Looking ahead, we are well placed to deliver our targets of
improved returns for our shareholders and of making Northern
Foods a great place to work. Our goal is for increasing numbers
of consumers to purchase our great tasting food… every day.
This will enable Northern Foods to continue to deliver steady 
top and bottom line growth.
Stefan Barden
Chief Executive
27 May 2008
6 Chief executive’s report | Northern Foods plc
Looking ahead, we are well placed to
deliver our targets of improved returns 
for our shareholders and of making
Northern Foods a great place to work Northern Foods plc | Chief executive’s report 7
Pizza
Constant innovation
and ongoing range
refreshes continued 
to drive Goodfella’s
performance
Sandwiches & Salads
Strong cost control
together with selective
product development
maintained a robust
margin performance
Ready Meals
Our Ready Meals 
add value through
delivering genuinely
market leading
products
Puddings
We successfully
launched The Pudding,
a new premium
branded offer for
Christmas 2007
Biscuits
Our new brand
strategy will ensure 
we maximise 
the strengths of 
the Fox’s brand
We target
attractive
growing
markets
