 Peter Blackburn
Chairman
Chairman’s review:
We have made significant 
progress on our journey 
of transformation as 
we work to realise our 
potential as the supplier 
of choice to UK and Irish
retailers in added value
convenience foods.
02 Chairman’s review Northern Foods plc
    Dividend
The board’s confidence in the management team’s ability to deliver our
business change programme leads it to recommend an increased final
dividend of 5.70 pence per share (2004: 5.60 pence). Together with the
increased interim dividend of 3.35 pence per share (2004: 3.30 pence)
paid in March 2005, this makes a total dividend for the year of 
9.05 pence (2004: 8.90 pence), a rise of 1.7 per cent.
Share buyback
We have made no share buybacks in the second half of the year.
A total of 15.6 million shares were acquired in the first half at a 
cost of £24.2 million.
The board
In February 2005 we announced that Tony Hobson, currently Deputy
Chairman, will succeed me as Chairman of Northern Foods following
my planned retirement from the board in July 2005.Tony joined the board
in May 2002 as Deputy Chairman and senior independent director.
Colin Dyer, currently non-executive director and chair of the audit
committee will become Deputy Chairman. Orna Ni-Chionna, currently
a non-executive director will become chair of the remuneration
committee, and senior independent director. David Nish will join 
the board as a non-executive director, on 1 July 2005 and will chair
the audit committee.
In May 2005 Jez Maiden was appointed Finance Director at a date 
to be confirmed. During the financial year Ian Ellis acted as Head 
of Finance and we are very grateful for his contribution.
Sean Christie resigned as Finance Director by mutual consent 
on 22 October 2004. Main board director Howard Sims resigned 
from the board on 30 June 2004 and retired from the company on 
31 December 2004. On 11 March 2005 we announced the appointment
of Carol Williams as Company Secretary following Julian Wild’s
departure from the business after 26 years. Our thanks go to Sean,
Howard and Julian for their services to the company.
Outlook
Trading for the first seven weeks of the year is in line with our
expectations, but clearly this is an early view in a fast moving 
and challenging market.
I will shortly leave the company under the leadership of Tony Hobson
and Pat O’Driscoll and have every confidence in their ability to
achieve our plans and ambitions for Northern Foods and its customers,
shareholders and employees. We are building momentum towards 
a new Northern Foods.
Peter Blackburn
Chairman
1 June 2005
Results
We have made significant progress on our journey of transformation
as we work to realise our potential as the supplier of choice to UK
and Irish retailers in added value convenience foods.
Following a period of disappointing financial performance, we began
the work of restructuring and refocusing the business in Autumn
2003. The arrival of our new Chief Executive, Pat O’Driscoll, at the
end of March 2004 accelerated the pace. In the last 12 months,
a comprehensive strategic review of the business has taken place,
a new management team has been established and a simplified
business structure and factory reorganisation has been implemented.
Further sales of non-core businesses have been made and the company
has moved to new headquarters in Leeds. The significant changes 
that we have made during the year have given Northern Foods a
sound platform from which to move forward.
Despite tough market conditions and difficult Christmas trading,
continuing sales grew at 2.0 per cent to £1,416.1 million. The
Ambient division showed strong performances with continuing sales
up 7.5 per cent, and continuing operating profit before goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items* up 19.8 per cent to £31.5 million.
Results from the Frozen division were broadly stable with continuing
operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items*
held at £36.1 million. The performance of the Chilled division was
disappointing with continuing sales up 2.0 per cent, but continuing
operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items*
was down 19.2 per cent to £35.0 million.
Pre-tax profit
Pre-tax profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was
£80.2 million, a reduction of 6.7 per cent against last year. This resulted
in earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items of 12.95 pence (2004: 13.77 pence). Pre-tax profit after goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items was £4.3 million compared to
£75.4 million last year, resulting in earnings per share of 0.53 pence
(2004: 12.78 pence). Operating exceptional items of £46.4 million included
£45.3 million relating to factory closures and group reorganisation.
Financial position
Northern Foods financial position remains sound and net debt remains
stable at £333.3 million. Our business is characterised by strong 
cash flow. Over the next two years we will continue to address the
pension deficit and will bear exceptional cash costs associated with
the restructuring of the business. However, we expect to remain
comfortably positioned against our key measure of financial strength
– interest cover – throughout this period. At the 2005 year end
interest cover before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
was satisfactory at 4.6 times.
*Analysed in the turnover and segmental analysis
Northern Foods plc Chairman’s review 03
                 
