 02 Chairman’s review Northern Foods plc
Chairman’s review
Following a year of transition,
Northern Foods is a simpler, leaner 
and more competitive business
Anthony Hobson
Chairman Northern Foods plc Chairman’s review 03
Overview
This has been a year of transition 
for Northern Foods. A year ago we
set out our plans to create a focused
and competitive company, capable
of driving improved shareholder
returns. We proposed a radical
restructure of Northern Foods 
to create a strong financial and
operational platform for future
growth. I am pleased to report that
we have made measurable progress
against our stated objectives.
Our share price has reflected this
progress, as we delivered a total
shareholder return of 29.7% during
the year ended 31 March 2007.
In January 2007, we successfully concluded
the disposal of five businesses (chilled Pastry,
Cakes, Speciality bread, Flour milling and chilled
Distribution). These businesses represented
40% of the prior year’s group revenue but 
a contributed profit from operations* of only
£1.3m for the year. We concluded that these
businesses were not core and that other
owners had a better opportunity to achieve 
an appropriate return. The disposals were
achieved ahead of time and in excess of our
£200m target. We also delivered the first
benefits from our Chilled division simplification
programme. We have realised a £9m saving 
in the first twelve months of our two year
central cost reduction programme; and
embedded a rigorous culture of cash and
capital management, generating £83.0m 
in free cash flow.
Northern Foods now comprises a portfolio 
of five focused businesses – Ready meals,
Sandwiches & Salads, Frozen, Biscuits and
Puddings – operating across our Chilled,
Frozen and Bakery divisions – in both the
retailer own brand (ROB) and branded arenas.
Each business unit has real potential for future
performance improvement and is led by a
strong management team with a clear vision
and strategy for growth. Whilst performance 
in some areas, particularly Biscuits, has
disappointed, progress in the year, particularly
in the Chilled division, demonstrates the
ability of these teams to create value for 
our customers and shareholders.
Y our Board
Significant change in the business has been
accompanied by change in your Board. Your
Chief Executive since 2004, Pat O’Driscoll,
stepped down from the Board on 1 February
2007. She led the business through a period 
of transformation, beginning the process 
of transition to a lower cost, more effective
and efficient business. This culminated 
in the successful delivery of our disposal
programme in January 2007. I would like 
to express my appreciation, and that 
of the Board, to Pat for her leadership of,
and dedication to, Northern Foods.
Pat also created a strong management 
team. From this team, she was succeeded 
as Chief Executive by Stefan Barden, with
effect from 5 February 2007. Stefan joined
Northern Foods in January 2006 as Executive
Director of the Chilled division, latterly
assuming additional responsibility for 
the Bakery division. Stefan has extensive
experience in the food industry, most 
recently as Managing Director of Heinz UK
and Ireland from 2003 to 2005. Since joining
Northern Foods, he has begun the process of
delivering a step change in the performance 
of our Chilled business. His deep knowledge 
of the food industry, combined with his
understanding of Northern Foods, means 
he is well positioned to deliver value for 
our customers and our shareholders alike.
We also welcomed Tony Illsley to the Board 
in September 2006 as a non-executive
director. Tony’s experience of the food sector,
including roles as President of Pepsi Cola
International (Asia Pacific) and President 
of Walkers Snack Foods, has proved of
immense value to the Board.
Summary
Northern Foods is a simpler, leaner and more
competitive business. We are building upon 
a solid foundation, with a strong focus 
on our retained businesses and a talented
management team in place. We have much
work to do, but we are totally committed 
to realising the potential of this business 
for our employees, our customers and our
shareholders.
Anthony Hobson
30 May 2007
Performance
In 2006/07, we achieved continuing underlying
revenue growth of 3.1% while continuing
profit before tax* rose by 21.2%. The group’s
return on net assets* (RONA) increased by
1.2%, as we made good progress in reducing
our asset base and in generating returns from
our investments. Our pension deficit has 
been substantially reduced and net debt more
than halved, creating the capacity to consider
careful and selected future investment.
During the past year we have taken decisive
action to focus the group and establish a
strong financial and operational foundation 
on which to build future profitable growth.
We have disposed of underperforming and
non-core assets; enhanced cash flow; rebased
the dividend to reflect the size of the new
group; and reduced the burden of corporate
central costs, whilst ensuring effective
governance processes lie at the heart of
everything we do. The total cost of restructuring
was £55.4m, resulting in a loss for the year 
of £22.5m.
The markets in which we operate remain
fiercely competitive. Our customers require
exceptional service and product quality and
our cost base is under continual pressure from
rising input prices. Future progress will depend
on leveraging the heritage, innovation and
operational skills of our business to drive
selective growth and better profitability. We
have talented people and the right businesses
to deliver on our objectives. Our focus is on
building performance; delivering outstanding
food and excellent customer service; introducing
exciting innovation; and continuing to deliver
rigorous cash management. This will ensure
that we deliver value for our shareholders.
Dividend
Following the rebasing of the final dividend
last year to reflect the scale of the new group,
the Board is recommending a full year dividend
of 4.25 pence per share (2005/06: 4.25 pence
per share), including a final dividend of 
2.75 pence per share.
Our employees
This has been a year of very significant 
change for our business. I would like to extend
the Board’s thanks and appreciation to all
Northern Foods’ employees, both those who
continue to work in our retained businesses
and corporate centre, as well as those who
have left to work elsewhere. The smooth and
efficient transition of our disposed businesses
to new owners has only been possible through
the collective effort of many people. The
foundation we have built during the year 
is strong and a credit to the team we now
have in place.
