 Northern Petroleum Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 06
SUMMARY
» Change in primary operational focus to 
north west Alberta, Canada
» Rationalisation of the Italian portfolio to 
focus on the Southern Adriatic 
» Relationship building undertaken in Italy 
to mitigate against external events 
which hindered progress
» Clear corporate communication required 
to set transparent objectives to the 
market and deliver against these
» Update on the Group’s resource 
position critical to understanding 
where the true value lies
» Group well positioned for production 
led growth
 Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
A transformational year
2013 was a year of significant change for Northern Petroleum. The 
Group said farewell to the Chairman and Managing Director who 
had been with the Group for 18 years and 14 years respectively. 
Further significant board changes were made during the year with 
the Board reduced from 10 members at the start of the year to the 
final complement of six members in  early 2014. The  incoming 
Non-executive Directors have brought in a wealth of experience and 
expertise from industry and financing, that will provide the necessary 
guidance and governance to support the management team and 
staff as the business grows.
Operationally the Group refocused from the Netherlands to Canada 
with the acquisition of petroleum and natural gas leases in  north  west 
Alberta during the first quarter, followed by the completion of the 
sale of the Netherlands operating subsidiary in the last quarter. 
Much work was conducted on the Canadian assets during the year, 
with both subsurface and operational preparative work performed 
to allow drilling operations to commence in the first quarter of 2014.
A consolidation of the Italian portfolio was also conducted during 
the year with a number of permits and applications relinquished in 
order to allow a more focused approach to the remaining interests. 
The key area in Italy is now the permits and applications held in the 
Southern Adriatic where significant progress has been made 
throughout the year in understanding the potential of the area. This 
has been done in conjunction with a concerted effort to develop 
relationships within Italy to allow progress through the approvals 
process. We believe that the Group’s objectives and the value that 
could be realised by the development of the discoveries are now 
fully recognised within the Italian government. In particular in the 
Southern Adriatic, independent assessment of the Giove discovery 
has estimated a recoverable contingent resource of 26 million 
barrels of oil. 
In addition to the core areas in Canada and Italy, the Group 
also gained an exploration licence in South Australia where there 
is shale oil, condensate and gas potential. The work programme 
for  the first year will assess this potential and the Group will  determine 
the forward plan from this. In French Guiana, the operator completed 
the exploration drilling programme without commercial success. 
A  large desktop study consolidating the seismic and well data 
gathered to date has now been undertaken by the partnership to 
establish future exploration targets in the licence. Finally in the UK, 
the Group is looking at the best way to maximise the value of the 
licences through a sale or farm out. 
The need for change
The need for change at Northern Petroleum has become clear over 
a number of years. The producing fields in the Netherlands did not 
perform as expected leading to reserve write downs and the capital 
cost of developing the fields was too great for the Group, in an 
investment environment where raising money for small companies 
was very challenging. Progress in Italy stalled with the changes in 
legislation after the Gulf of Mexico spill and the decision by Shell not 
to drill a farm in well offshore west of Sicily. Further, the need for 
good corporate governance required a shake up of the Board. 
All these issues and a number of others contributed to the operational 
and board changes that were effected during 2013. The spirit of change 
engendered by this has been captured well by the management and 
staff and everyone is very motivated to work towards a new era for 
the business. These events have provided the first steps to position 
Northern Petroleum for the future. Northern Petroleum Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 07
Introduction Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Information
Positioning for growth
Much of the work performed in 2013 and continued in early 2014 
has been to enable growth. When the new management team came 
together in July, a review with investors concluded that the Group 
needed to be clear in communication with shareholders and deliver 
on promises made.
Three short term operational goals were set by the team: the sale of 
the Netherlands subsidiary, the start-up of operations in Canada 
and making progress with the Italian Southern Adriatic permits. Two 
of those three objectives have now been met with the sale of the 
Netherlands subsidiary concluding in October and operations in 
Canada commencing in February 2014. The third objective is still 
of great importance to the growth of the business and much effort 
has been made to move the work programme in Italy forward. 
This has included running through a tender process with seismic 
acquisition companies to have a vessel available to conduct the 3D 
seismic survey in the fourth quarter of 2013. Unfortunately 
the environmental approval process is still pending within the Italian 
government and it has not yet been possible to conduct the survey; 
something that has had a direct affect not only on Northern 
Petroleum, but also on the service suppliers. Many other companies 
and industries have been impacted by the impasse within the Italian 
Environment Ministry. However, we continue to work hard with the 
Italian authorities to allow the survey to progress as planned in 2014, 
with  the recent changes in the Italian administration and government 
viewed as positive to the industry.
Along with the operational goals, and essential to positioning  
the Group appropriately, the management team also endeavoured 
to increase the standards of corporate governance within the 
business. Key to corporate governance is the composition of the 
Board and particularly the Non-executive Directors. With the three 
new non-executive directors in place, I  believe that the Group  
has an exceptionally strong board for its size, with the right  
skill set to complement, challenge and ultimately support the 
executive members. 
To further enhance the capacity to grow the business from a strong 
and credible foundation, gaining an up to date picture of the reserve 
and resource base of the business was critical. This has been 
achieved through third party review, and while the change in 
categorisation and reduction of the Southern Adriatic resource was 
a material change, it has given the management team a clear picture 
of where the true value lies. 
The changes in the primary financial statements this year reflect the 
significant operational changes that the business has undergone 
during 2013. Three key events have driven these changes: the sale  
of the operating subsidiary in the Netherlands, the strategic  
exercise reviewing the direction of the business which has led  
to the impairment of certain assets, and the consolidation of  
the now controlled joint venture which owns the French Guiana 
interest. While these changes have produced significant non-cash 
losses in the profit or loss account for 2013, with the focus in the 
future being towards production, the primary financial statements 
will be more closely aligned with measuring the performance of the 
business across each year as opposed to  across a multi-year 
exploration campaign. 
The management and staff have been working hard to establish the 
asset status and optimum route forward in both surface and 
subsurface work programmes. Together with building relationships 
with all stakeholders, this and the work discussed above, allows the 
Group to go forward with optimism and focus on the fundamental 
issues of growth in both value and reputation.
Looking forward
Northern Petroleum is now moving into a new era where the 
strategy of production led growth will be a significant component of 
future success. In a market where the appetite for risk has reduced, 
the companies that show focused use of capital to create sustainable 
growth offer more to investors. 
This new strategy for the Group is already making progress with the 
start up of operations to grow production in north west Alberta. 
The  positive results of the proof of concept project where all 
three of the wells encountered economically recoverable light oil, now 
support plans for the full redevelopment of these lands to be 
finalised and implemented. This will be a key focus for the Group 
over the coming year. 
To enhance the Group’s production capability further, opportunities 
will be evaluated with a view to establishing an additional core area. 
This will reduce the risk of reliance on one area and allow technical 
skills proven in north west Alberta to be utilised elsewhere.
In addition to production led growth, we recognise that growth 
through a sensible exploration and appraisal strategy is also required 
to provide the potential for very large returns on investment. 
The opportunity that the Southern Adriatic presents is world class 
and we will continue to pursue this through working together with 
the Italian authorities to gain approval to shoot the 3D seismic. 
There will also be a sustained effort to demonstrate the value to 
other industry players such that we can develop an appropriate joint 
venture to fully evaluate the Cygnus prospect and Giove discovery 
through the drill bit.
Further to the Italian opportunities, a review of exploration potential 
is being conducted to identify the key focus areas that the Group 
may enter in the future. This will identify exploration opportunities at 
an early stage to ensure that we are able to keep our exploration 
portfolio in the right shape to generate new opportunities without 
significant capital commitment.
In summary
Northern Petroleum has been through a transformational year 
during 2013. The new strategic approach to focus on production led 
growth will be very important for the future as the new Board and 
management team aim to deliver an exploration and production 
company that provides investors the value that they expect. I look 
forward to updating existing and new shareholders regularly as our 
Group develops in this exciting new environment.
Keith Bush
Chief Executive Officer
14 April 2014
