 Northern Petroleum Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 04
SUMMARY
» Fundamental changes in the 
composition of the Board
» The complementary experience 
and expertise of the executive team 
is reflected in the Non-executive 
Directors 
» Material changes in the year affecting 
operations and corporate governance 
» Changes undertaken in 2013 should 
now benefit the business during 2014 
and beyond
As the new Chairman of Northern Petroleum Plc I am pleased to report 
on behalf of the Board the continuing transformation of the Group.
Significant board changes have been made during the year, designed 
to support and challenge the new management team in their drive 
to create value for shareholders. The Board recognises the challenges 
that the Group faces and using our collective experience we are 
working together to realise the value of the opportunity that currently 
presents itself. We firmly believe that the strategy of production led 
growth will enable the Group to deliver shareholder value.
There were several material events during 2013 which affected 
areas ranging from operations through to corporate governance. In 
operations, the Group sold the Dutch operating subsidiary to 
Vermilion Energy Inc. and acquired petroleum and natural gas lease 
acreage in Canada that offers production, development and 
exploration opportunities. Additionally the Italian portfolio was 
refocused to concentrate on the Southern Adriatic and the four well 
follow up exploration programme in French Guiana was completed. 
From a corporate governance perspective, Northern Petroleum was 
completely re shaped, with a restructured and reduced board including 
a new Non-executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. 
The proceeds from the sale of the Dutch assets have provided 
sufficient funding to carry out the proof of concept programme and 
initial development activity in Canada, while supporting the efforts 
in Italy for the acquisition of 3D seismic. Further investment in 
Canada will allow the project to become a material part of the 
business with development and production growth, and provide a 
foundation for further production areas and additional core value. 
This approach is taken in line with our strategy of production led 
growth, which is discussed later in this report. The business model 
employed by the Group encourages focus on the assets that offer 
the optimum chance of adding material value, while we continue to 
review the best way to monetise and divest assets that no longer fit 
with the corporate strategy.
The Board changes in 2013 have led to the creation of a management 
team that can positively pursue this strategy. I would like to thank 
the former members of the Board who endeavoured to set the 
groundwork for the current team to build on. With active portfolio 
management, the new team have now been able to position the 
Group to grow.
The experience and background of the new non-executive members 
of the Board complement the skills and competence of management 
to create an effective team in support of the delivery of shareholder 
value. The industry proven ability of the non-executive team 
provides the guidance to support the enthusiasm and drive of the 
management team.
 Chairman’s Statement Northern Petroleum Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 05
Introduction
The experience of the Board ensures that we are aware of our 
responsibility to look after all our stakeholders, manage risk and 
undertake our activities in a manner consistent with globally 
recognised best practice. These responsibilities are something that 
we consider very important to the health of the business as we 
outline later in this report.
We are confident that 2014 will see the positive impact of changes 
initiated in 2013. We continue to refine our approach and operations 
in order to create and deliver value from our existing portfolio 
while  working hard to upgrade our assets by pursuing new 
opportunities which fit our revised strategy. I am very excited about 
working with this new team and I have every confidence that we will 
deliver opportunities that are capable of adding significant value to 
Northern Petroleum.
The particular challenges the Group faced in 2013 are largely 
behind us and 2014 is set to be an exciting and rewarding year. 
I thank our staff and shareholders for their support during a year 
of transformation and I look forward to continued support as we focus 
on starting to develop the production that will lead the Group to 
sustainable value creation. 
Jon Murphy
Non-executive Chairman
14 April 2014
During the past twelve months, 
our business has undergone a 
significant and transformational 
period of change. This report 
provides the detail of the 
preparation work undertaken 
during the year to position 
Northern Petroleum for its 
new strategy of production 
led growth and the progress 
achieved to date.
Jon Murphy
Non-executive Chairman
Ensign service rig conducting re-entry operations on well 14-22, 
Alberta, Canada.
