 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 14
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC
The Board believes that progressive organisations appreciate the challenge of operating in today’s business environment and par ticularly
the requirement for more transparency in determining Board memberships and assessing the performance of Directors. Therefore, dur ing
the year, Northgate completed self-assessment performance evaluations of the Board, its Committees and its individual Directors.
Principal Board committees
Audit Committee
This Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its overview responsibilities, primarily reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial
information to shareholders, the systems of internal control and risk management and the audit process. It comprises N J Irens, Sir
Stephen Lander and J R Fryer, and is chaired by Sir Stephen Lander. The Committee meets at least four times a year. Normally the C hief
Executive Officer, Group Finance Director and Group Audit Manager attend the meetings. However, the Committee is empowered to
meet without Executive Board members present.
Northgate has an Internal Audit function that provides the Audit Committee with independent, objective assurance regarding internal
controls and risk management processes. Northgate has also implemented a formal whistleblowing policy and process that allows staff
to raise concerns, in confidence, regarding possible improprieties.
In addition to their statutory audit responsibilities, the Group will typically use the auditors for other work that they are well placed to
undertake. This includes work in respect of acquisitions and disposals, pension scheme and other ancillary audit work and tax
compliance. In such circumstances, due consideration is given to the impact of the assignment on the independence of the Auditors
and to their qualifications to carry out the role. Having given consideration to the extra work undertaken by the Auditors and after
careful discussion with the responsible partners and the Executive Directors, the Audit Committee is satisfied as to the independence
of the statutory Auditors.
Remuneration Committee
This Committee ensures the Executive Directors and senior management are appropriately rewarded, giving due regard to the financ ial
and commercial health of the Group. It comprises N J Irens, Sir Stephen Lander, J R Fryer and N Starritt, and is chaired by J R Fryer. The
Committee meets at least twice a year. When necessary, the Remuneration Committee is independently advised by remuneration
consultants. The Directors’ Remuneration Report is given on page 16.
Nomination Committee
This Committee keeps under review the Board structure, size and composition. It selects and proposes to the Board suitable candid ates
for appointment as Directors of the Group and considers Board succession plans. It comprises N J Irens, Sir Stephen Lander, J R Fryer
and N Starritt, and is chaired by N J Irens. The Committee meets as required. In line with best practice, Northgate does not consid er
internal candidates or employees that have left the company within the last five years, for appointment as Non-Executive Directors of
the Board.
Shareholder Relations
The Group is committed to ongoing regular communication with shareholders. This is achieved principally through regular financia l
reports and the AGM, and information is regularly published on the Group’s website at www.northgate-is.com
Regular dialogue and presentations take place throughout the year with institutional investors. At the AGM, all shareholders attending
have the opportunity to ask questions of the full Board including the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination
Committees.
Responsibility for risk and internal control
The Group’s overriding objective is to maximise long-term shareholder value whilst exceeding the needs of customers, employees a nd
partners. In doing so, the Directors recognise that creating value is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s approach to assessing risk and the systems of internal control, and for mon itoring
their effectiveness in providing shareholders with a return that is consistent with a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks. This
includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures. The role of executive managemen t
is to implement the Board’s policies on risk and control and present assurance on compliance with these policies. Further independent
assurance is provided by an internal audit function which operates across the Group, and the external auditors. All employees are
accountable for operating within these policies. Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate,
the risk of failure to achieve corporate objectives.Accordingly, it can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
Risk assessment
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. A s an
integral part of planning and review, management from each business area identify their risks, the probability of those risks occurring,
the impact if they do occur and the actions/strategy being taken to manage those risks to the desired level. This information is
communicated upwards on a filter basis, culminating in a discussion of the Group Risk Profile by the Board.
This process has operated for the year under review and will continue going forward. It has been reviewed by the Board and accor ds
with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code.
Internal Control
Whilst the Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues,it has
delegated to executive management the implementation of the systems of internal control within an established framework.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with formally defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authorit y. There
are also established procedures for planning, capital expenditure, information and reporting systems and for monitoring the Group’s
businesses and their performances. These include:
• review of divisional operating plans with the relevant Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board for approval;
• regular consideration by the Board of year-end forecasts;
• monthly comparison of each operating division’s actual financial performance with budget;
• operating policies and procedures;
• regular reporting of accounting and legal developments to the Board.
Assurance
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Group’s:
• assessment of risk by reviewing evidence of risk assessment activity and a report from internal audit on the risk assessment process.
• systems of internal control primarily through agreeing the scope of the internal audit programme and reviewing its findings, reviews
of the annual and interim financial statements and a review of the nature and scope of the external audit.
Any significant findings or identified risks are closely examined so that appropriate action can be taken. The work of the inter nal audit
department is focused on areas of priority as identified by the risk analysis and in accordance with the annual audit plan approved by
the Audit Committee and the Board. External auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the financial statements. They review a nd
test the systems of internal financial control and the data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary to express their
audit opinion. They discuss with management the reporting of operational results and the financial position of the Group and pre sent
their findings to the Audit Committee.
The Directors, through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal control.
Compliance with the Combined Code
The Directors confirm that, for the year ended 30 April 2004, the Group complied with all the Code provisions, with the exception of
the matter disclosed above.
Going Concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors believe it is reasonable to expect that the Group has adequate resources to continue
in operation for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By order of the Board
J R Stier 
Secretary
28 June 2004
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 15
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC
