 COMPANY PROFILE 11
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC
Overview
Northgate Information Solutions is a major supplier of
software applications and outsourcing solutions to the public
sector, human resources and corporate markets and one
of the leading suppliers of HR software in the UK.
The company works closely with all of the UK’s regional
police forces, 30% of UK local authorities and with many
corporate organisations including  more than 50% of FTSE
100 companies.
The company was originally founded in 1969. Today
Northgate employs approximately 2,200 staff and has 2,500
large/medium customers and almost 5,000 small/medium
customers across the UK and Ireland. Headquartered in Hemel
Hempstead, Northgate has 21 major offices across the
UK with six further international offices. Northgate
Information Solutions has three divisions focused on the
company’s core business areas: Human Resources Systems
(HRS), Public Services (encompassing both the Local
Government and Criminal Justice/Public Safety markets), and
Corporate Services.
Northgate's customer centric approach is based on fully
understanding application-specific business processes. This
enables organisations in both the public and private sectors
to increase their business process efficiency when deploying
Northgate applications and their associated services or when
utilising the company’s wide range of high quality IT services.
Furthermore, Northgate manages many customers' key
systems, providing a broad range of flexible and cost-
effective outsourced solutions available either at client sites
or hosted at its own BS7799 accredited data centre.
Market Leading Applications
• Within HRS, Northgate’s ResourceLink is a highly scaleable,
flexible and web-enabled integrated suite of HR, payroll
and pension modules. Including business intelligence and
workflow functions, it is designed to increase
administration efficiencies, improve management
information and reduce the total operating costs in HR
departments. Our EmpowerHR suite provides an
integrated solution for the management of personnel,
recruitment and training; whilst its web-based Internet
recruitment and Intranet solutions offer advanced
e-HR capabilities. When integrated with Easipay,
EmpowerHR provides HR professionals with the accurate
information required to fully develop value enhancing
people strategies.
Overview
• Through the use of innovative IT in local government,
Northgate is helping local authorities to transform the
delivery of public services with Front Office, our market
leading and award winning citizen relationship
management system and Assert, our new and innovative
benefit assessment tool. In criminal justice and public
safety, Northgate is also delivering public sector value
through our Notice Enforcement Systems and National
Management Information System (NMIS) solutions. The
London Congestion Charging scheme uses Northgate
software to track offenders, as do the majority of police
speed cameras across the UK.
• Northgate’s ProIV product, a rapid application
development tool and Reality, our multi-value database,
are proven software solutions that enable Northgate’s
customers to develop fast, robust, future-proof and cost-
effective business applications.
Outsourcing
Using a wide range of IT skills, Northgate can create a flexible
service offering that enables companies to benefit from
performance improvements whilst still maintaining or
reducing running costs. Northgate is a long-standing supplier
of outsourced IT solutions enabling organisations in both the
public and private sectors to hand over confidently all or part
of their IT requirement to Northgate.
Northgate manages major IT outsourcing contracts with
local government, police and corporate clients. We provide
hosted applications from our state of the art data centre and
manage clients’ IT infrastructure and desktop services on site.
For clients in the HR market, Northgate is a leading supplier
of payroll outsourcing services which range from a fully
managed service to hosting the application. Our client base
ranges from FTSE 100 companies right through to SMEs.
