 04 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Chairman’s 
statement
This was the first year of the five year regulatory 
cycle 2010-2015. We have made a good start, 
delivering value for shareholders and customers. 
Equally important, we have established plans 
and taken actions to ensure we can deliver over 
the whole period and beyond. 05 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
The new regulatory cycle introduces new performance 
standards for the period and, in this report, we indicate 
the substantial progress we are already making.  
Profit has improved, as is needed to ensure we can 
attract the funding required to deliver our ambitious 
investment programme. 
This was also the first year with Heidi Mottram as our 
Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Heidi’s review of the year 
is in pages 6 to 9 of this report. It gives a sense of the 
energy and determination she has brought to the 
Group. Our strategy has been reviewed and our values 
reset. All our employees have been engaged in the 
work. The result is not a change in our direction. Rather, 
it is a change in the pace and scale of improvements 
sought and in our ambition against benchmarks.
We are building on strengths developed over many 
years but we recognise that the future will pose new 
challenges and uncertainties, often outside our control. 
An example is the weather and its impact on our 
environment. Another is possible reform to the 
regulatory regime although, in that case, we are seeking 
to influence change to ensure the company can deliver 
its, and the Government’s, objectives efficiently and 
effectively. The Board reviews all identified strategic 
risks regularly; they are detailed on pages 50 and 51 of 
this report. We seek to judge and to manage the impact  
of risk on the business, financially and operationally.
The strong financial performance, delivered in difficult 
and uncertain economic conditions, has enabled the 
Board to recommend a dividend for the year in line  
with the objective we established in 2005. Annual real 
increases of 3.0% have consistently been provided 
since then. The economic climate remains uncertain 
although we were pleased to note the agreement by 
Sahaviriya Steel Industries (SSI) to take over the Corus 
plant on Teesside and Hitachi’s decision to build its  
high speed train assembly plant in Durham. These,  
and other developments, should help us to stabilise  
our demand in the future.
Yet again, the weather had a huge impact on our 
operations during the year. The worst winter in over  
100 years posed many challenges for us. Due to the 
extraordinary work of teams across the company, 
supplies to our customers were not affected. I must  
pay tribute to those who worked in exceptionally hard 
conditions to guarantee supplies and to deal with the 
inevitably increased leakage quickly, although, in these 
circumstances, it was not possible to achieve our 
leakage target in the north.
A number of reviews of our regulators are under 
consideration. We also expect a White Paper for Water. 
This does create uncertainty for the industry. We believe 
that, overall, the model for the industry has worked well. 
Much of the necessary change can be made by the 
industry in association with Government and regulators 
without potentially disruptive change. Regulatory 
change must not undermine the confidence of  
our investors.
 
Our focus remains on our customers and the trust they 
put in us to deliver for them each and every day and  
for the long term. Ofwat has introduced the Service 
Incentive Mechanism (SIM) in this five year period and  
in the two year trial period we have improved our score 
significantly. Our aim is to improve much further. We 
monitor the company’s performance closely and, in  
this report, show the balanced scorecard we have 
introduced to do that. It is also the base against which the 
remuneration of all senior management will be assessed.
Our long term commitment to service to customers, 
and to achieving efficiency and environmental targets, 
requires long term investment. The extension of 
Abberton reservoir is a perfect example and there is a 
case study of the project on page 43. It will help secure 
the long term supply of water to our customers in 
Essex. Also worthy of note is the commencement of 
work on our second advanced anaerobic digestion 
plant, at Howdon, on north Tyneside. This follows the 
successful operation of the plant at Bran Sands, on 
Teesside. Together they will significantly increase our 
use of renewable energy.
The work of our people during the winter was 
exceptional. Their unstinting efforts throughout the year 
are always evident and are the basis of our successes. 
We thank them for all they do and we seek to ensure 
they have the right environment and personal 
development opportunities. We were listed as a 
‘company to watch’ in the Sunday Times ‘Best 
Companies to work for’ survey. This was a significant 
result as it was the first time we had taken part. 
However, this was not a surprise as our employee 
survey showed that levels of satisfaction are high.
Our employees are active in our ‘Just an hour’ 
volunteering scheme, working in the communities we 
serve. These communities are important to us and we 
have developed significant partnerships to ensure that 
we support and help to sustain them. That work is part 
of a corporate responsibility programme covering all 
aspects of our business and seeking to embed 
sustainability at all levels. 
I must thank my fellow directors for their support  
during the year. I would particularly like to thank Claude 
Lamoureux, who leaves the Board after this year’s 
Annual General Meeting (AGM), for his five years on  
the Board. He has provided us with wisdom and an 
international dimension. Anita Frew and Alastair Balls 
both left the NWL board after nine years of dedicated 
service. We wish them all well. We have welcomed  
Paul Rew to the Board since last year’s AGM as well  
as Simon Lyster, who has been a member of the NWL 
board for five years. The board has considerable 
strength, drawn in part from the diverse backgrounds 
and experience of the directors.
Sir Derek Wanless
Chairman
31 May 2011
