 06 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Chief executive 
officer’s review
This review highlights our business activity during 
my first year as CEO of NWG.
It has been a hugely enjoyable year, and also a 
very interesting one, as I took time to understand 
the business, listen to its stakeholders and 
employees and work with them to develop  
a way forward.  07 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
I joined a company which already had a good 
reputation and I was impressed immediately by the 
loyalty and commitment of the workforce. It was the 
start of a new five year investment period for NWL and  
I have taken the opportunity to couple that plan with  
a review of our strategy, vision and values.
NWL had previously stated its vision to ‘be the national 
leader in the provision of sustainable water and waste 
water services’, and our commitment to this is 
reaffirmed. We want to continue to deliver value to 
customers and other stakeholders by focusing on  
our core competencies of water and waste water 
management. We underpin our drive to be the best  
with five strategic themes containing goals and targets 
that, when reached, will see our vision and our values 
delivered. In the autumn, ‘Our Vision Our Values Our 
Way’ was introduced to all our employees during a 
series of interactive roadshows and, as a result, there  
is clarity and energy throughout the company which  
is driving the business forward.
The five themes described below are mutually 
supportive and achieving the right balance between 
them is essential to our success and reputation.
Customer focuses on delivering industry-leading 
customer service. Our relationship with customers is 
core to the success of our business and it is essential 
that they trust our service. Customer service is at the 
heart of the company and all employees have a clear 
focus on getting things ‘right first time every time’. 
Although we are required to meet regulated standards 
for customer service, this should not define our 
aspiration as the quality of our service must go  
beyond that.
Competitiveness will drive us to greater efficiency 
and, indeed, to be the most efficient water company.  
It is not just about driving cost down but using 
innovation to support our activity.
People are our greatest asset and we want to be 
recognised as a great company to work for with high 
levels of satisfaction from our employees. We will 
provide support and training and promote excellent 
employee relations.
Environment is critical to us and our stakeholders  
and we acknowledge our responsibilities to protect  
and enhance the natural environment. Our carbon 
management plan will help reduce our carbon footprint 
and we will adopt good environmental practice in all 
aspects of our activity.
Communities are important to us and we want to 
build strong relationships with the communities we 
serve. We will ensure that corporate responsibility is 
embedded in performance management and that we 
benchmark ourselves against the best companies.
We have agreed specific goals to help us achieve  
our vision against these themes, and have clear 
accountability for their achievement throughout  
the company. These are measured in a balanced 
scorecard which assesses our performance against  
key performance indicators (KPIs). This is reviewed  
by the Board, management team and all employees  
on a monthly basis.
I believe that clear direction and goals are key to 
success, but just as important is a clear sense of 
values, and how we do things ‘around here’. So at  
the same time as reviewing our vision, we have  
made a clear commitment to five core values.
One team – we work together consistently, promoting 
co-operation, to achieve our corporate objectives.
Customer focused – we aim to exceed the 
expectations of our external and internal customers.
Results driven – we take personal responsibility for 
achieving excellent business results.
Creative – we continuously strive for innovative and 
better ways to deliver our business.
Ethical – we are open and honest in meeting our 
commitments, with a responsible approach to the 
environment and our communities.
 
Values
Reputation
Customer
Competitiveness
People
Environment
Communities
Vision 08 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
2010/11
The company was successful in meeting many of the 
targets in its balanced scorecard during the year. Out  
of 26 targets we improved in 18, which is a very good 
start. Most notable were the improvements in sewer 
flooding, our SIM score for customer service as well as 
the reduction in the number of interruptions to supply. 
We were also very proud to retain our industry-leading 
position in sewage treatment. Our independent 
customer satisfaction scores still show that customers 
are satisfied with the service we provide as well as value 
for money although we were disappointed that this  
was not reflected at the same level in the research 
undertaken by the Consumer Council for Water 
(CCWater) this year.
The report will also focus on many highlights throughout 
the year but the development of our work to extend 
Abberton reservoir and commence our second 
advanced anaerobic digestion plant at Howdon, after 
the successful operation at Bran Sands, are particularly 
notable. The worst winter for over 100 years challenged 
our employees but they responded magnificently 
ensuring that no supplies were interrupted. This was a 
fantastic achievement and I am very proud and grateful 
for the commitment and hard work of so many of our 
employees in truly dreadful weather conditions.
The company also continued to receive external 
recognition for its activity. This year, Ethisphere listed 
NWG in its top 110 most ethical companies in the world, 
one of only five companies chosen in the UK. This 
recognises the impact we have on underpinning the 
communities in which we operate and also recognises 
our longstanding relationships with key industrial and 
commercial customers.
We continue to be actively involved in the business 
community in all operating areas through direct 
membership and involvement in the councils/boards  
of the Confederation of British Industry (CBI), Chambers 
of Commerce and other similar organisations. For  
my part, I have been getting involved in a number of 
organisations which I believe can influence the future  
of the company and locally I am a member of the  
CBI Council and have been asked to join their  
national Infrastructure Group. I have also joined the 
Government’s Green Economy Council as the water 
industry representative and I hope that the Council  
can bring a real influence to the development of  
policy relating to a low carbon economy. 
This year, industrial demand has stabilised and we were 
particularly pleased with the signing of the agreement 
by SSI from Thailand to secure the future of the Corus 
plant on Teesside. There is evidence of some industrial 
growth particularly with the confirmation that Hitachi will 
develop a site in Durham to assemble its high speed 
trains. Metering of our domestic customers continues  
to increase, although at a different pace in our various 
areas of supply, and domestic demand is also steady. 
The collection of income remains a key focus for us, 
particularly in a difficult economic climate.
Private drains and sewers
One of the major challenges we face in 2011/12 is the 
transfer of private drains and sewers to the industry in 
October. This will almost double our sewerage network 
overnight and much work is already in hand to assess 
what is needed in terms of staffing, building effective 
data, information sharing and communications to 
customers. We don’t fully know the impact of the 
transfer yet, but it will lead to higher costs, in the order 
of £20 million a year initially, which we will need to 
recover in this five year investment period. The industry 
has worked well in partnership, via Water UK, to come 
up with the most practical cost effective way forward  
for customers.
Chief executive officer’s review 
continued 09 Northumbrian Water Group plc  Annual report and financial statements 201 1 www.nwg.co.uk Directors’ report – business review
Legislative changes 
We look forward to publication of the Government’s 
White Papers on Water and the Natural Environment later 
this year. The former should bring greater clarity in areas 
such as water resource planning, metering, social tariffs 
and broader market reform. We have worked with the 
industry, through Water UK, to set out a vision of how the 
Government can achieve many of its objectives without 
legislation or with only minor legislative changes. NWL 
has held frequent meetings with Defra and contributed 
ideas on water trading and abstraction reform including  
a joint project (‘Trading theory for Practice’) with Anglian 
Water, Cambridge Water and Veolia. We remain 
committed to any moves that can deliver clear and 
demonstrable improvements for customers, other 
stakeholders and the wider environment.
The Water White Paper will be an opportunity to end 
unhelpful speculation around the future regulatory 
regime and provide a clear vision for the future of the 
water industry that retains the confidence of customers 
and investors alike.
In addition, we await the publication for consultation  
of draft Regulations from Defra to introduce a duty  
on landlords to provide water companies with relevant 
details so that accurate bills can be issued to tenants. 
This should assist in collecting income from the  
private rented sector where bad debts have been 
relatively high.
 
Regulatory reform
We welcome the conclusions of the Defra review of 
Ofwat and CCWater conducted by David Gray. We  
also welcome the view that the overall regulatory 
framework, including the continued role for a separate 
customer body, is generally fit for purpose. We support 
the call for regulatory simplification and a reduced 
reporting burden which is already being championed 
enthusiastically by Ofwat. We also support further 
clarification of the respective roles of Government  
and regulators and a call for more transparency  
in consultation processes.
We strongly support the move by Ofwat to significantly 
reduce the burden of regulatory reporting and move 
towards risk-based regulation. A useful start was  
made in the simplified 2011 June Return reporting 
requirements but we support the proposal for more 
radical change in 2012. We have been working in 
partnership with Ofwat to pilot a set of high level KPIs  
to be reported by companies in place of the current 
detailed and prescriptive reporting requirements.
Ofwat has published a series of consultation and 
discussion papers on the subject of ‘Future price limits’. 
We have responded to these papers and also engaged 
in a range of workshops, meetings and informal 
discussions with Ofwat. We believe the more focused 
approach to regulation should be reflected in the 
approach to future price reviews as well as the annual 
reporting cycle. We welcome Ofwat’s intention to adopt 
a more outcome-focused approach to price setting and 
have made suggestions as to how the price setting 
methodology could be simplified and made more 
transparent. We look forward to responding to Ofwat’s 
formal consultation paper outlining its proposals for 
future price reviews later in the year. 
The Office of Fair Trading has announced a market 
study looking at whether the market for treatment of 
organic waste is working effectively to deliver the best 
outcomes for customers. NWL was an early investor  
in advanced anaerobic digestion technology and we 
welcome this review as it should provide the clarity 
required to inform investment decisions.
Summary
This has been a very good year for the Group. We are 
reporting a strong set of results, we have a clear vision 
and goals to deliver and have made good progress in 
performance in many areas. There is a strong sense of 
energy, commitment and accountability in the business 
and I am confident of further success in 2011/12. 
Heidi Mottram
Chief Executive Officer
31 May 2011
