 3 Annual report 2013
Dear shareholder
I am pleased to present the annual report and accounts of Nostra Terra Oil and Gas Company plc
for the year ended 31 December 2013. This was a busy and positive year. Significantly, Nostra Terra
passed the operational breakeven point, before central costs, depletion, depreciation and
amortisation, for the first time in the company’s history. We also maintained our strategy of carefully
considered growth and significantly increased both production and revenue.  
Exploration and production
In the year we made several sensibly judged investments in existing and new fields. More details
can be found in the Chief Executive’s review on page 4. We continued to build a diverse and
balanced portfolio and extended our geographical footprint in line with our stated strategy of
finding new hydrocarbon reserves in ‘old fields’. Our portfolio is being structured to provide a
spread of strong and reliable long-term revenues, and in 2013 we added to its depth.
Financial highlights
I am delighted to report that in 2013 our revenues grew to £851,000 from £352,000 in 2012 –
an increase of 142%. During the period we completed a single placing, raising £750,000 at a
small discount of just 10%, a fantastic result given the extremely difficult conditions in the UK
corporate market at the time. Furthermore, our protracted litigation with Richfield finally reached
a successful conclusion, giving us cash to invest without further dilution to shareholders. More
recently we also secured a US$25 million credit facility with the highly regarded Texas Capital Bank.
This extends our ability to quicken the pace of growth and also gives us the strength and agility to
take advantage of the right opportunities when they present themselves.
Summary
Nostra Terra made considerable progress throughout 2013, thanks in large part to the exemplary
efforts of our executive directors, Matt Lofgran and Alden McCall, who I thank. I also want to
acknowledge Nostra Terra’s shareholders for their enduring loyalty to our company.
Sir Adrian Blennerhassett
Chairman
22 May 2014
Chairman’s statement
