 4 Nostra Terra Oil and Gas Company plc
Chief Executive’s review
Nostra Terra is an exploration and production company, focused on finding and producing oil from conventional
reservoirs. We accelerate production by applying modern technologies, including 3D seismic mapping, logging, precision
horizontal and vertical drilling, and multi-stage well completions. 
We target regions of low political and geological risk, specifically the United States mid-continent. Goldman Sachs has
predicted that by 2017 the US will once again be the world’s largest oil producer, generating 10.9m barrels a day. This
is the result of highly sophisticated drilling technologies of the types we use, which are opening new fields. The states
in which we operate – Oklahoma, Colorado, Kansas and Texas – are all achieving their highest daily productions in several
decades because of the widespread application of these technologies.
Continuing our progress
A significant development in 2012 was our agreement with Ward Petroleum to acquire an interest in the Chisholm Trail
Project, which we announced in August. This is our third multi-well drilling project in Oklahoma. We have a 20% interest
in the overall play, with varying WIs in the individual wells, due to differences in the net acres leased in each well.
This play is a good example of how horizontal drilling and completion techniques can revive areas that were thought to
be fully exploited. Ward has made rapid progress, with the first two wells entering production towards the end of 2012
and two further wells now in production. The fifth well, in which we have a 2.2% WI, has been completed and is
currently in production testing. Our initial expectation was that each well would produce 200 barrels of oil equivalent
per day (“BOEPD”). However, all of the first four wells have done considerably better than this and we expect that the
fifth well will demonstrate similar results.
An ongoing leasing program has also expanded the Prospect holdings. The acquisition of additional acreage means that
Nostra Terra is now exposed to 21 potential drilling locations, including the five wells drilled so far.
We are excited by the Chisholm Trail Prospect’s potential, a view supported by a recent, larger acquisition in the play by
Gastar Exploration Limited (NYSE:GST), as well as other companies recently investing in the area. Our estimate is that
these wells each need to produce 75,000 BOE to reach payback and we are encouraged by Gastar’s announcement that
it expects to recover several times this from its most recent wells. We believe Chisholm Trail is a low-risk, high-return
play. A reserve report has now been commissioned and is anticipated shortly. Nostra Terra will then be able to put in
place reserve-based lending, an attractive alternative to more dilutive forms of financing.
Initial 10-day comparative 
production average 
(BOEPD)
Nostra Terra’s 
working interest
Well
Chisholm Trail 1
Chisholm Trail 2
Chisholm Trail 3
Chisholm Trail 4
0.47% 258
555
348
505
0.16%
12.58%
5.31%
Chisholm Trail 5 Testing 2.2%
Chisholm Trail 6 Elected 5.0%*
*Subject to final elections being concluded and finalisation of Working Interest percentage 5 Annual report 2012
We also made progress with our two other prospects in Oklahoma, Bale Creek and Warrior. Nostra Terra owns a 30%
WI in the Bale Creek Prospect, which is operated by Pathfinder Development Capital LLC. Bale Creek lies within a highly
productive and extensively mapped trend, with multi-pay potential from as many as eight reservoirs. Following the
acquisition of 3D seismic data, two wells were drilled at Bale Creek. The first well, which was horizontal, produced oil
in swab testing but the pressure was unusually low. While drilling the second well, we and our partner saw the
opportunity to test two stacked formations that were prominent anomalies in the 3D seismic interpretation, and decided
to continue drilling the well vertically. In November, we announced positive results from prolonged testing of the second
well, which was producing oil and generating revenue. Work on the first well has been discontinued, allowing us to
focus our resources on future wells.
In January 2012, Nostra Terra agreed with Crown Energy Company Inc. to acquire a 10% WI in the Warrior Prospect.
Like Bale Creek, Warrior lies within a prolific oil system in Oklahoma and contains multiple, stacked reservoirs. A horizontal
well was drilled in the first half of the year and put into production. 
Nostra Terra owns a 16.25% WI in the Verde Prospect Unit, which covers 636 acres in Colorado and is operated by
Plainsmen Partners LLC. At the start of 2012, one vertical well was in operation and producing approximately 50 barrels
of oil per day. This well has exceeded our expectations and reached payout within the first nine months of continuous
production. 
Since the end of the financial year, we have made another strategically important acquisition, with the purchase of an
initial 5% WI in the High Plains Program in Texas. This strengthens our portfolio by giving us a higher-risk exploration
opportunity, with the potential for large upside for our shareholders. Brown and Borelli is our highly experienced and
respected operator-partner.
The area of mutual interest (“AMI”) covers 66 contiguous square miles (42,000 acres) and is in a region where subsurface
mapping, 3D seismic, vertical and horizontal drilling and completion technologies have achieved varying degrees of
success. We aim to increase that success rate by applying a new “proof of concept” with Brown and Borelli.
The first step was to re-enter a previously drilled well, which we believed to have been mis-drilled. This re-entry confirmed
that the original well had missed its target by a wide margin. As a result, the partnership are now reprocessing 35,000
acres of proprietary seismic data, integrating that with 42,000 acres of detailed subsurface mapping and identifying
other potential drill targets. We expect to identify multiple prospect areas within the AMI, each of which could comprise
up to 2,500 acres and have multiple drilling locations. The encouraging results so far have led us to increase our WI to
20%.
2012 net production
Our portfolio of interests has continued to expand and oil and gas production increased during 2012, as shown in the
table below. As we move through 2013, it is pleasing that both of these trends have continued, enabling us to surpass
break even at the operational level in January, a significant milestone in our development.
Working
interest
NTOG
operated
Prospect State Net production (BOE)
Bloom Kansas 3192
8
106
2088
4076 100% Yes
Vintage Hills Texas 1% No
Nesbitt Texas 3% No
Verde Colorado 16% No
59
69
586
331 Warrior Oklahoma 10% No –
331 Bale Creek Oklahoma 30% No –
212 Chisholm Trail Oklahoma varies No –
– High Plains Texas 20% No –
2012 2011 6 Nostra Terra Oil and Gas Company plc
Improving financial performance
Growth in production led to higher revenues, which increased from £244,000 in 2011 to £352,000 in 2012, a rise of
44%. We achieved a gross profit of £90,000, compared with a loss of £126,000 in the previous year. As the company
grows we keep tight control of administrative expenses, which decreased by 6% to £876,000. This contributed to a
reduced loss before tax of £840,000, against a loss of £996,000 in 2011.
We have continued to put in place the financial resources we need to support our growth. In May 2012, we entered
into a 360-day loan facility of up to US$3 million with YA Global Master SPV Ltd (“YA Global”), an investment fund
managed by Yorkville Advisors LLC. The initial advance on the loan facility was US$1 million and we may request further
advances of up to US$2 million. The facility attracts interest at 10% per annum.
In September, we successfully raised finance through two placings, allowing us to further fund the drilling campaign in
Oklahoma. In total we raised £1,070,000 before expenses, by placing 297,222,223 new shares at 0.36 pence per share. 
Since the year end, we have raised £502,750 under the SEDA by issuing 123,546,296 new shares at an average price
of 0.407p per share. We have used the majority of the proceeds to acquire additional leases and expand the Chisholm
Trail Prospect, along with developing further opportunities.
Also since the year end, Nostra Terra has reached a milestone in its legal proceedings against Richfield Oil & Gas Company
(formerly Hewitt Energy Group, Inc.). On 14 April 2011, Richfield issued a US$1.3 million secured loan note to Nostra
Terra, which accrued interest at 10% per annum and matured on 31 January 2012. At a hearing on 1 March 2013,
Nostra Terra’s motion for partial summary judgment went unopposed. We have received a judgement against Richfield
in excess of US$1.5 million in principal and interest, plus an additional amount to be determined to cover the costs of
collection. Collection has now begun and we will aggressively pursue all remedies available under the judgement, which
include garnishment of cash and the forced sale of corporate assets, until the entire amount has been collected.
An encouraging outlook
Nostra Terra has made a strong start to 2013, both operationally and financially. In January, we surpassed breakeven on
an operational basis – a major milestone in our development. This was the result of greater than expected production
from the Chisholm Trail wells, combined with production from the rest of our portfolio. We expect most of the revenue
from Chisholm Trail to come through from 2013 onwards.
With production now comfortably covering our operating overheads, we can apply our operating margins and all new
funds raised to the leasing and drilling of new wells. Several wells are planned for 2013 within Chisholm Trail, as well as
in other prospects. We will continue to minimise overheads and remain focused on growing our production throughout
the year.
Matt Lofgran
Chief Executive Officer
4 June 2013
Chief Executive’s review continued
