 Strategic report
12 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014
“ Nostrum’s growth and success centres around  
the quality and commitment of our people.”
Chairman’s statement
Delivering continued growth
Our vision
Nostrum’s vision is to grow production 
to over 100,000 boepd and to build 
a reserve base that allows the 
Company to continue to produce at 
this level far into the future. Our vision 
of achieving production of 100,000 
boepd from our existing field in 
north-west Kazakhstan is now only a 
few years away. As a result, we are also 
looking to further build Nostrum’s 
reserve base, not only with reserves 
to prolong the plateau production of 
100,000 boepd, but also to increase 
this through acquisitions outside 
of our current production hub. 
Our vision is to become one of the 
leading independent E&P companies 
in the FSU.
Nostrum intends to realise its vision 
through a clearly defined strategy, 
balancing organic development with 
opportunistic expansion through 
acquisitions. Its main priority remains, 
as always, to continue to deliver growth 
and shareholder value in a responsible 
and efficient way.
Our ambition and  
strong financial position
Nostrum continued to perform well  
in 2014 despite the year ending with  
a challenging oil price environment. 
We consistently delivered production 
of approximately 45,000 boepd and 
started the appraisal programme on 
our three additional fields. Whilst the 
financial performance of the Company 
was not as strong as in 2013, as a result 
of a falling oil price during the second 
half of the year, we were still able to 
end the year with over US$400 million 
of cash and cash equivalents on our 
balance sheet. The combination of the 
US$400m bond we placed in early 
2014 and the hedge we put in place 
from February 2014 means that we are 
well positioned to be able to sustain a 
period of prolonged low oil prices and 
still deliver on our strategy. Thus, our 
ambitions to build the leading CIS 
independent E&P company remain 
as strong as ever. We completed our 
Premium Listing on the London Stock 
exchange during 2014 and we are now 
a member of the FTSE 250 which 
further demonstrates the ambition we 
have to achieve the highest standards in 
everything we do. I believe the current 
environment can provide opportunities, 
rather than limitations, for Nostrum. 
Solid financial performance
Nostrum’s financial performance was 
steady as production levels remained 
broadly similar to 2013. We started 
more meaningful investment into the 
second gas treatment facility and 
raised additional financing in early 
2014 to ensure that we were fully 
financed for this phase of infrastructure 
building. At the same time we 
implemented our hedging programme 
to cover all non-scalable capex for 
2014 and 2015. We continue to 
manage our cash position prudently. 
We take into account, first and 
foremost, the liquidity position of the 
Company. Secondly, we ensure that 
use of excess cash is carefully 
considered before deploying it, and 
that we are maximising shareholder 
returns with each investment we make. 
Despite the falling oil price, 2014 was  
a good year financially and net income 
for the year was US$146.4 million.  
I believe we have struck the right 
balance between reinvesting in future 
growth and returning cash to our 
shareholders in the current 
environment. 
I am pleased that the Board is 
proposing a final dividend for 2014 
of US$0.27 per Ordinary Share, subject 
to shareholder approval at the AGM.
Stable production levels
The financial performance of the 
Company was built on another strong 
year of operational results. Production 
of 44,400 boepd was extremely 
close to our target of 45,000 boepd 
and Nostrum is now enjoying a period 
of sustained production at levels 
around 45,000 boepd. This steady 
production and associated cash flow 
continues to allow Nostrum to invest in 
further infrastructure to double our 
production capacity by the end of 2016 
without the need to raise more capital. 
In addition to this organic growth, the 
cash flows Nostrum generates allows 
the Company to grow reserves and 
extend production through its recently 
established M&A strategy.  Strategic report Corporate governance
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 13
Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures
Multi-field asset base established
Nostrum has started the appraisal 
programme on the three additional 
licences acquired in 2013. We have 
adopted the same approach with our 
additional fields that we undertook 
with Chinarevskoye to fully understand 
the geology and de-risk the 
development programme as much 
as possible. We have carried out new 
3-D seismic on each field and have 
now interpreted it, allowing us to have 
a much better understanding of where 
to position our first appraisal wells.  
We plan to start drilling an appraisal well 
in the largest field, Rostochinskoye, in 
2015. We look forward to developing 
these fields and to bringing them into 
production to utilise our infrastructure 
development. 
Governance and the Board
The Board understands the 
importance of providing effective 
and clear leadership and direction 
on all matters relating to corporate 
governance and places great 
significance on achieving high 
standards of governance to underpin 
the Group’s good business conduct 
and strong ethical culture. With this in 
mind I am very pleased with how the 
Company has handled the increased 
regulatory obligations imposed as a 
result of the Company’s admission to 
the premium listing segment of the 
Official List of the Financial Conduct 
Authority and to trading on the 
London Stock Exchange plc’s main 
market for listed securities in June 
2014. I believe the Company handled 
this transition very well. During 2015 
the Board will continue to work closely 
with management to maintain good 
standards of corporate governance 
and to ensure the Company’s 
continued compliance with the rules 
imposed by the Financial Conduct 
Authority and associated guidance 
under the UK Corporate Governance 
Code.
Our commitment  
to corporate responsibility
At Nostrum we strive to be a 
responsible and transparent business. 
Our Corporate Responsibility 
approach covers the relationships  
we have with all our stakeholders 
including shareholders, employees, 
contractors, local communities and 
host government as well as the 
environments in which we work. 
Nostrum’s strategy on Corporate 
Responsibility focuses around three 
key areas – people, planet, and profit 
– and includes the following initiatives:
 communicate its approach to its 
various stakeholders, emphasising  
its stringent corporate governance 
provisions and business ethics;
 well-being of its employees, health 
and safety measures, working 
environment specifics and overall 
benefits. Nostrum also reports on its 
direct involvement in the community 
through programmes providing 
social infrastructure, sponsoring 
activities and charitable work; and
 footprint carefully and adheres fully 
to relevant legislation. The Company 
is also proactive in liking its 
environmental objectives to the 
highest possible standards and 
ensuring stringent compliance and 
progress monitoring.
In 2014, we believe Nostrum’s actions 
have deemed to have a positive impact 
on its wide range of stakeholders, 
including investors, business partners, 
regulators, employees, customers, 
local communities, the environment 
and society more generally. 
Our people
We are entering a changing 
environment in relation to recruitment, 
as a falling oil price will inevitably 
lead to the scaling back of costs in 
the industry. Nostrum’s growth and 
success revolves around the quality 
and commitment of our people and  
we believe we have an excellent team 
that can deliver our strategy even with 
a lower oil price. We continued to  
grow our team during 2014 with a 6% 
increase in Kazakhstan. Our total 
global workforce now counts more 
than 1,000 people. We remain 
committed to developing local  
content and employed 98% local 
nationals in Kazakhstan as at the end  
of 2014. We will continue to develop 
our employment practices and policies 
to ensure we can attract and retain the 
best talent. At the same time we will 
continue to monitor our cost base and 
ensure we do not carry unnecessary 
excess costs into 2015.
The future
2014 was a solid year for the Company. 
For most of the year we had a strong 
oil price environment, however this 
rapidly changed in the fourth quarter 
and we need to be prudent as we  
enter 2015 to ensure we are ready for  
a sustained period of low oil prices.  
In 2015 our main focus is ensuring  
the timely completion of GTU3 in 2016 
and building the feedstock to allow us 
to double production. We enter this 
next investment phase with a very solid  
cash position, low levels of leverage 
and healthy margins in place. We 
believe we have the platform to 
execute our strategic initiatives which 
gives me confidence in our prospects 
for 2015 and beyond. 
Frank Monstrey
Chairman
