 Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review
“ Reaching full processing capacity  
at the GTF alongside increasing our 
2P reserves to 582 mboe has been  
a tremendous achievement.”
201 3 was an  
outstanding year
2013 was an outstanding year. 
Reaching full processing capacity  
at the GTF alongside increasing our  
2P reserves to 582 mboe has been a 
tremendous achievement. We are now 
working on our second development 
phase, which will entail the construction 
and the commissioning of a new gas 
plant, as well as a sizeable drilling 
programme spanning the next  
4-5 years. The next GTF is a particularly 
critical part of our strategy, enabling  
us to double production before the 
end of 2016.
Excellent reserve growth
We enjoyed excellent reserve  
growth from the acquisition  
of three neighbouring fields, 
Rostoshinskoye, Darzhinskoye and 
Yuzhno-Gremyachenskoye, allowing  
us to increase our 2P reserves to  
582 mboe. We now look forward  
to the appraisal programme at these 
fields, as well as further appraisal  
at Chinarevskoye, to ensure we  
can maintain peak production for  
as long as possible. 
The Chinarevskoye field continues  
to demonstrate its strong geological 
potential, as we were able to once 
again replace more than 100% of  
our Proven reserves in 2013. I am  
very excited about the future of our 
current asset base as well as the 
potential for further expansion  
over the coming years. 
Strong operational performance
The Chinarevskoye field is performing 
excellently. With the oil treatment 
facility (OTF) and the gas treatment 
facility (GTF) operating at nameplate 
capacities, we forecast a daily total 
production average of approximately 
45,000 boepd for 2014 and 2015. 
intensive drilling programme 
Thirteen wells were drilled as part  
of our 2013 programme. We now  
look forward to an intensive drilling 
programme of more than 50 wells  
over the next five years. We anticipate 
drilling 4-5 production wells each  
year, to ensure existing production is 
maintained, with the remainder of the 
wells targeting future feedstock for our 
next GTF and appraisal wells focused 
on shifting Probable and Possible 
reserves into the Proven category. 
t hird Gt F on track
During 2013, we took significant steps 
towards the construction of our next 
gas plant, which will allow faster 
monetisation of reserves, by increasing 
treatment capacity by an additional  
2.5 bcm of raw gas per year, to a total 
of 4.2 bcm per annum. Investments 
have already been made in the initial 
design of this third train and in the 
early-stage procurement of long-lead 
items. Construction and commissioning 
of this state-of-the-art infrastructure is 
forecast to be completed by mid- 2016, 
with production reaching 100,000 
boepd by the end of that year.
Kai-u we Kessel
Chief Executive Officer
18
Nostrum Oil & Gas Annual Report 2013  implementing our M&A strategy 
In addition to proving up reserves at 
Chinarevskoye, our development plan 
also focuses on sustaining long-term 
production beyond Chinarevskoye 
alone. This is the basis of our M&A 
strategy, as reflected in the recent 
acquisition of the subsoil use rights 
related to three adjacent oil and gas 
fields, Rostoshinskoye, Darzhinskoye 
and Yuzhno-Gremyachenskoye, in the 
close vicinity of the Chinarevskoye 
field. Based on Ryder Scott’s analysis, 
these fields have added 98 million of 
2P reserves, and we look forward to 
the results of further appraisal in the 
next 18 months.
By virtue of our size, development 
stage and production track record,  
we have acquired high visibility both 
locally and internationally and, as a 
result, are kept informed of further 
M&A opportunities. Our approach is  
to remain both pragmatic and prudent 
as we consider these options. Our 
main focus remains on north-west 
Kazakhstan, where we know the 
landscape and are already operating 
successfully. In addition, we would also 
consider opportunities outside of this 
region where we see the potential to 
create further shareholder value. 
IN 2014 t HERE ARE FOUR KEy Obj ECt Iv ES FOR t HE COMPANy 
IN ORdER t O CONt INUE t O dELIv ER ON OUR St RAt EGy
1
 Ensure construction of the next gas plant remains  
on track for 2016.
2
 Continue to grow the Proven reserve base through 
appraisal of Chinarevskoye and our three new fields.
3
 Establish a dedicated business development team  
to ensure we can quickly and accurately evaluate  
the opportunities in the region.
4
 Ensure that the financial position of the Company 
remains stable.
Enhancing shareholder value
I believe that these objectives,  
if successfully achieved, will provide 
the platform to significantly enhance 
shareholder value. We have 
demonstrated in the past that we  
can deliver on our strategy and I am 
therefore confident as we enter 2014  
 
that we are well positioned to continue 
to achieve our goals. I look forward  
to successfully executing the next 
infrastructure project, whilst also 
ensuring the reserve base is not  
only maintained, but increased  
over the coming years.
19
Nostrum Oil & Gas Annual Report 2013 
Strategic report
