 Strategic report
14 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014
“ During 2014 we have made significant steps towards 
the construction of our next gas treatment unit.”
Chief Executive’s review
Maintaining steady production
How we performed in 2014
2014 was another strong year from 
an operational perspective. It saw 
the gas treatment facility continue to 
operate at full capacity with a complete 
range of hydrocarbon products being 
delivered to various destinations 
outside Kazakhstan. Nostrum is now 
deep into its second development 
phase, which will entail the engineering, 
planning, procurement, construction 
and commissioning of a new gas plant 
as well as a scalable drilling programme 
spanning the next 4-5 years. 
Our performance against our four key 
objectives for the Company in 2014 
was as follows:
1. Ensure construction of the next gas 
plant remained on track for 2016
 in the construction of our next GTU, 
which will allow us to double our 
production capacity by the end of 
2016. We have spent over US$150 
million and expect the total cost to 
be below US$500 million. 
2. Continue to grow our Proven 
reserve base through appraisal 
of Chinarevskoye and our three 
new ﬁelds
 as we replaced over 60% of our 
production since August 2013. Whilst 
the oil price environment is extremely 
different from the end of 2013 our 
strategy remains unchanged. We 
have made some reductions to our 
drilling programme but aim to fill the 
GTU3 by the end of 2017, as to reach a 
combined, together with GTU1 and 2, 
production of 100,000 boepd. We 
are well positioned to withstand the 
low oil price environment as we have 
a healthy cash balance and low costs 
of production. I am very excited 
about the future of our current asset 
base as well as the potential we 
have for further expansion over the 
coming years.
3. Establish a dedicated business 
development team
 development team to ensure we  
can quickly and accurately evaluate 
the opportunities in the region.
4. Ensure that the ﬁnancial position 
of the Company remains stable
 Company remains stable despite the 
challenging oil price environment.
Steady production levels
The Chinarevskoye field is now in full 
production with both the Oil Treatment 
Facility (OTF) and the Gas Treatment 
Facility (GTF) being operated at their 
nameplate capacities. Nostrum 
expects a daily total production 
average of at least 45,000 boepd for 
2015 and 2016. All products – crude oil, 
stabilised condensate, LPG and dry 
gas – are sold at the best possible 
prices on the world markets, and our 
operations are running at optimal 
levels. We remain on target to meet 
our objective of doubling capacity  
by the end of 2016.  Strategic report Corporate governance
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 15
Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures
Future drilling programme 
at Chinarevskoye
In 2014, we drilled eight wells and are 
fortunate to have a scalable drilling 
programme in front of us. Our ability 
to quickly scale drilling up or down 
allows us to react to the current oil 
price environment smoothly and 
without jeopardising our non-scalable 
capex. We are required to complete 
six wells in 2015 to maintain production 
at current levels which is comfortably 
achievable. We are able to maintain 
production at around 45,000 boepd 
and complete the GTU3 at substantially 
lower oil prices than today. Any 
increase in the oil price above these 
levels allows us to drill more wells for 
the purpose of filling the GTU3 and 
to appraise the new fields. 
Construction of second gas plant
During 2014 we have made significant 
steps towards the construction of our 
next gas plant. The rationale behind 
the plant is that it will allow faster 
monetisation of reserves, by increasing 
treatment capacity by an additional 
2.5 bcm of raw gas per year, bringing 
total capacity to 4.2 bcm of raw gas 
per annum. Over US$150 million has 
already been invested in the plant and 
contracts relating to over US$300 
million in total for procurement and 
construction have been entered into. 
We remain on track to deliver the plant 
on time and on budget in the second 
half of 2016.
Building up further reserves  
beyond the Chinarevskoye field
In addition to proving up reserves at 
Chinarevskoye Nostrum’s development 
plan also focuses on sustaining its 
long term production beyond the 
Chinarevskoye field alone. This target 
is the basis on which Nostrum’s 
mergers & acquisitions strategy is 
formed. This is exemplified by the 2013 
acquisition of the subsoil use rights 
related to three adjacent oil and gas 
fields, Rostoshinskoye, Darjinskoye 
and Yuzhno-Gremyachenskoye, in the 
near vicinity of the Chinarevskoye field. 
Based on Ryder Scott’s analysis these 
fields could add up to 98m of 2P 
reserves. Nostrum looks forward to 
drilling its first well in Rostoshinskoye 
during 2015.
By virtue of its size, development 
stage and production track record, 
Nostrum has acquired high visibility 
both locally and internationally. 
As a result it regularly monitors further 
M&A opportunities and its approach 
is to remain both pragmatic and 
prudent as it considers these options. 
Nostrum’s main focus remains on 
north-west Kazakhstan, where it 
knows the landscape and is already 
operating successfully. However 
we will also consider opportunities 
outside of North Western Kazakhstan 
where we see the potential to create 
further shareholder value. 
Key priority tasks for 2015
In 2015 there are three key objectives 
for the Company in order to continue 
to deliver on our strategy. 
1.  Ensure that the financial position 
of the Company remains stable. 
2.  Ensure construction of the next 
gas plant remains on track for 2016.
3.  Optimise the drilling programme 
to ensure that we can fill the GTU3  
as quickly as possible whilst not 
jeopardising the Company’s 
financial position. 
I believe that these objectives, if 
successfully achieved, will provide 
the platform to significantly enhance 
shareholder value. We have 
demonstrated in the past that we can 
deliver on all these objectives and 
I am therefore confident as we enter 
2015 that we are well positioned to 
achieve our goals. I believe we are well 
positioned to successfully execute the 
next phase of infrastructure whilst also 
ensuring the reserve base is not only 
maintained but added to over the 
coming years.
Kai-Uwe Kessel
Chief Executive Officer
