 02 Novar annual report 2002
Chairman’s statement Novar’ s results in 2002 support the decisive action taken
since the significant downturn of some of our markets last
year . The Group not only undertook a major restructuring
programme over the last 18 months, but also raised
investment in new products and commercial initiatives.
As a result, good operating progress was made across the
Group. Market share increases compensated for lower
markets overall, sustaining turnover , improving operating
profit, and producing a welcome recovery of headline 
pre-tax profits and earnings per share. And another year
of excellent cash generation, underpins our proposal to
maintain Novar’ s dividend.
Group turnover was stable at £1,448m in difficult markets,
while operating profit before restructuring at £117m was
up 2% on a like for like basis. Headline earnings per share
increased to 11.6p. The balance sheet has been further
strengthened with net debt reducing from £273m to £219m,
year end gearing of 46% and interest costs covered 10 times.
The development of the Group has continued in 2002.
Investment in new products and marketing initiatives
reached new highs. In Intelligent Building Systems we
strengthened the technology base in CCTV , and dedicated
resources to take on large projects that span multiple
businesses. We expect this to continue to drive our market
shares in the years ahead.
The acquisition of Alerton, announced separately on
26 February 2003, will further expand our portfolio of
Building Control brands, provide valuable technology , and
expand our routes to market in North America. It is a quality
business that offers excellent returns and future prospects.
In some of the toughest markets seen for many years, Novar
is performing well. That we have delivered the results we
have, owes much to the efforts of our employees, who
remain committed to the Group’ s continued progress.
I thank them on behalf of my colleagues.
The Board is recommending an unchanged final dividend
of 6.6p per Ordinary share, payable on 6 June 2003 to all
shareholders on the register at the close of business on
2 May 2003. 
Sir Graham Hearne
Chairman
03 Novar annual report 2002
The development of the 
Group has continued in 2002.
Investment in new products and
marketing initiatives reached
new highs. We expect this to
continue to drive our market
shares in the years ahead.
