 Novar annual report 2003
Group Chief Executive’ s review 04
“Our businesses continue to
outperform their markets. 
We continue to invest to
enhance our competitiveness
and to accelerate our growth
once economic activity returns
to more normal levels.”
Our businesses continue to outperform their
markets. Our investments in new products and
commercial and market initiatives are driving our
share in markets that were generally down on
2002. Costs are coming down. We continue to
invest to enhance our competitiveness and to
accelerate our growth once economic activity
returns to more normal levels.
Intelligent Building Systems (IBS)
The reorganisation of the IBS sector into an
integrated global structure has created new
opportunities, by allowing us to promote the full
range of IBS solutions to our customers worldwide.
T o integrate delivery, a major restructuring of our
UK, US and German logistics operations has now
completed phase one, resulting in improved
delivery and cost performance.
In 2003, Novar Projects, established in the UK and
Germany, began to contribute substantial new
business. In the UK, we won the Fire Detection
and Building Control contracts at London
Heathrow’s new Terminal 5, worth more than
£40m to be delivered over the next several years.
We see further opportunities in the worldwide
airports market, as we are bringing on stream
exciting new products for these customers.
Overall, IBS trading performance reflects the
continued weakness in new commercial
construction in the UK, US and Germany, where
key markets were down 6% to 10%. Against this,
we achieved solid growth in the US, including
Alerton, and further growth in the Middle East
and Southern and Eastern Europe. Progress in
the UK was driven by a strong performance in Fire
Detection and Wiring Devices.
Indalex Aluminum Solutions
The North American soft alloy extrusions markets
saw some recovery in the final quarter of the year.
Over the full year the markets were down 1%,
while Indalex grew volumes 2%, outperforming 
in the key residential construction and
transportation markets.
Our partnership with Asia Aluminum Group
continues to prosper. Volumes sourced from 
Asia are up over 35% this year. Our continuing
investment in 25% of the Asia Aluminum Group
has recorded associated earnings of £6m 
(2002: £4m) and we have received a dividend 
of £1.9m (2002: £1.6m).
Security Printing Services
Security Printing had another strong year,
achieving record sales and operating profits in US
dollars. Margins improved as business grew in
the higher value added contact centre and
Internet order channels, and production costs
were cut. A major restructuring programme,
closing four printing plants and one older contact
centre, was completed in the year.
As announced at the interim results, Clarke
American’s contract with its largest partner bank
was renewed for another seven years and
extended to cover the provision of all of its
cheque related product and service
requirements. The new business was successfully
introduced at the end of the third quarter and will
contribute fully to earnings from 2004.
Current trading and outlook
Intelligent Building Systems markets remain
weak, with soft underlying demand for
commercial building construction everywhere.
Group Chief
Executive’ s
review
969_01-05  18/3/04  12:52 pm  Page 04 05
Novar annual report 2003
Group Chief Executive’ s review continued
Our investments in new products
and commercial and market
initiatives are driving our market
share gains.
The Fire Detection and Building
Control contracts at London
Heathrow’s new T erminal 5 
are worth more than £40m.
Indalex grew volumes 2%,
outperforming in the key
residential construction and
transportation markets.
Security Printing had another
strong year, achieving record sales
and operating profits in US dollars.
Key messages
We have important new products and project
activity coming on stream to drive market share.
Recently we have seen patchy improvement in
North American aluminium extrusions demand.
With pressure on pricing unabated, it is difficult 
to project this market for 2004. Indalex Aluminum
Solutions expects to continue to grow its 
market share and will also benefit from further
reductions in its fixed cost base.
The outlook for the US cheque market is slightly
down. Clarke American’s continuing success in
developing its contact centre and online
business, which enhances revenue per order,
should continue to support solid revenue and
profit performance of our Security Printing
business at constant currencies.
Restructuring costs are likely to be similar to
those in 2003, but more significantly weighted 
to the first half of the year. Importantly, the
continuing weakness and uncertain level of 
the US dollar will impact the reported results 
of our US based businesses, particularly in the
first half of 2004.
Despite the uncertain trends in demand, we
expect to make further underlying progress at
constant currencies as our investments in
markets, new products and cost productivity
continue to drive sales and margins.
Jurgen Hintz
Group Chief Executive
969_01-05  18/3/04  12:52 pm  Page 05 Novar annual report 2003
Intelligent Building Systems 06
IBS lands T erminal 5 
BAA has awarded 
a five year contract 
to Novar Projects for
the design, supply 
and installation of the
fire detection, voice
alarm and building
management systems
at T erminal 5, Heathrow .
6,500 employees
serving the worldwide construction industry
Operating in over 30 countries 
from North America through Europe, the Middle East and Asia
Comprehensive portfolio
including fire detection and alarm, energy management and environmental control,
access control and intruder alarm, CCTV , and data and cable management systems
Intelligent Building
Systems
969_06-11  18/3/04  12:52 pm  Page 06 07
Novar annual report 2003
Intelligent Building Systems continued
Novar Intelligent Building Systems is a global business
supplying electrical, electronic and control products
and services to building operators, contractors and
developers worldwide. With operations in over 30
countries in North America, Europe, the Middle East,
India, South East Asia and China, Novar’s intelligent
building systems include a wide range of high 
quality, innovative offerings for fire detection and 
alarm, energy management and environmental 
control, access control and intruder alarm, CCTV and
electrical and data connectivity.
Novar has a proven track record of bringing innovative
solutions, processes and products to the construction
industry. Today’s buildings are sophisticated
environments; they have complex requirements for
safety, comfort and effective business operations, in
other words, high intelligence, high capacity systems.
Novar Intelligent Building Systems works with customers,
installers, value added resellers, distributors, specifiers
and end-users. Our experience in delivering large scale
projects worldwide, across a broad scope of different
applications, is illustrated by the success we have had
with the Heathrow T5 project.
In 2003 BAA awarded Novar contracts worth more than
£40 million to supply the life-safety and building
management systems for Heathrow Terminal 5, one of
Europe’s largest and most sophisticated construction
projects. Comprising a Gent fire detection, voice alarm
and public address system and a Trend system to
control and monitor all heating, ventilation and air
conditioning plant serving the T5 campus, the Novar
package will be the largest of its type ever to be
installed in the UK. The systems’ use of innovative
technology, some of it being specially developed for
the project, will have significant whole-life cost benefits
for the new terminal. Novar’s use of advanced design,
testing and manufacturing techniques will play a crucial
part in ensuring successful completion of the contract.
The proven ability of its supply chain to achieve 
industry leading order turnaround times, while virtually
eliminating defects, will be especially important.
The systems at Terminal 5 will together establish new
benchmarks for the design, delivery, integration and
operation of life-safety and building services control
equipment, not just in airports but in commercial
buildings generally. Indeed Novar’s project
management skills and experience already extend well
beyond its established businesses in the UK, Germany
and North America.
The International Markets division of Intelligent Building
Systems is involved in a wide range of projects around
the world, with Novar products installed in many
landmark buildings including commercial office and
retail complexes, theatres, art galleries, hotels, hospitals
and major public infrastructure works.
In Spain, Esser’ s early warning fire detection system has
been installed in the financial “city” of the Banco de
Santander Central Hispano in Madrid. The complex 
of four buildings and some 35,000 square metres of
office space will house more than 25,000 Esser fire
detectors, monitored by Novar’s market leading
centralised management software system.
In Dubai, the Madinat Jumeirah resort complex,
designed to be one of the most luxurious resort
complexes in the world, will include MK’ s Insignia range
of wiring devices and Gent’s fire detection systems,
building on Novar’s success in supplying fire detection
and safety equipment at the neighbouring Jumeirah
Beach Hotel, featured below.
In Singapore, Novar is involved with several prestigious
building projects including the Stock Exchange
Building, the new Supreme Court, and Capital Tower,
with Gent, MK and Ega products all supplied and
installed. The Common Services Tunnel (Stage 1),
comprising some 1.4 kilometres of linked tunnels, will
accommodate a series of underground utilities such as
water pipes and power and telecommunications cables,
and is being designed to service the new downtown
financial and business hub development in Marina
South. In addition to T rend’ s building controls, there are
opportunities for electrical trunking and cabling and
wiring devices. Finally, Novar has recently been
awarded the contract to supply fire detection and 
life-safety systems at a large new terminal building 
at Changi Airport, building on its success at Heathrow.
A Gent integrated fire and voice alarm system is installed at the
600 room Jumeirah Beach Hotel in Dubai.
969_06-11  18/3/04  12:53 pm  Page 07
