 ARC International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
4
I am very pleased to report that the Company has made solid progress
during the first full year of Mike Gulett’s tenure as Chief Executive Officer.
Decisive action has been taken to improve all areas of the business and 
we have ended the year in a much stronger competitive position. 
We reported record turnover for 2002, despite very difficult market conditions, and achieved our objective of growing 
the business organically, whilst successfully reducing the overall cost structure.
In the past 12 months, ARC’s management team has been significantly strengthened with new senior executives in finance,
marketing, engineering, legal, human resources and corporate development. The senior executive staff now has an average
of more than 25 years’ experience in developing successful technology companies. We continue to invest in people to drive
the business towards profitability and are confident that we have the right executive team in place to deliver this. We also
appointed Jeremy (Jez) San OBE to the Board as Non-Executive Director with effect from 4 November. Jez is Chief Executive
Officer of Argonaut Games PLC and a founder of ARC International.
Our product strategy and customer proposition is clearer than ever before. We have diversified from selling just processor
cores, to providing a more integrated approach to product design, with development tools, software and peripheral IP. 
Most recently, we have launched USB Now ™ and WLAN Now ™, to complement our existing and new versions of the
ARCtangent™ processors. We believe that this has improved our competitive position in the intellectual property (IP) market,
and attracted new strategic partnerships and customers. As a result of these changes, our customer profile has improved 
and we are now actively targeting the larger semiconductor and systems businesses.
In November, we appointed WestLB Panmure as joint corporate broker and financial adviser to the Company. We then
carried out a review to address the capital requirements of the business. The review showed that ARC had sufficient working
capital funding to bring the Company to profitability on the basis of reasonably prudent assumptions and we announced 
the intention to repurchase £48.5 million of ARC’s stock during the first half of 2003, thereby optimising shareholders’
potential for future returns. When the process is completed, we will still have a strong balance sheet with sufficient cash
resources for the longer term, as well as the flexibility to make complementary acquisitions where appropriate.
My three-year appointment to the Board has come to an end and on 5 February 2003, I announced that I would be
resigning from the Board with effect from the AGM on 24 April 2003. I want to thank my colleagues on the Board 
for an inspiring time with many challenges and much hard work and I wish them and ARC all the best for the future. 
The Board will announce a new Chairman shortly.
Finally, I’d like to thank all of our employees for their very hard and dedicated work this past year and I look forward 
to ARC’s successes in 2003.
Jan Tufvesson Chairman
27 February 2003
Chairman’s statement
