 5
2002 was a year of achievement for ARC and we reported the 
highest turnover in the Company’s history. Despite very challenging 
market conditions, fourth-quarter revenues grew by 41% year on year. 
Overview Net loss was reduced to £22.0 million from £29.9 million in 2001 and operating costs were significantly
lower than the previous year. 2002 was also an important transitional year for ARC, and under the leadership of a new,
experienced management team, the Company has completed a major restructuring.
The management team completely refocused the business and product strategies. Completing the integration of all acquired
subsidiaries allowed us to leverage the technology to create a system-level approach to product development, which
accelerated the introduction of important new products and expanded our customer base beyond our traditional markets. 
We maintained a diversified product offering. In fiscal 2002, 47% of turnover came from processor cores, 20% from
peripherals and 33% from software products. This diversification resulted in the expansion of our customer base and we
have begun actively targeting the larger semiconductor and systems businesses. In 2002, we won 29 new ARCtangent™
processor design wins and 16 peripheral licensees. In addition, we shipped software and development tools to more than
50 customers in each quarter.
Our customers continue to develop products for our traditional markets of wired and wireless communications as well 
as consumer electronics, but our new systems-level approach opened opportunities in computer security and encryption, 
as well as the rapidly growing storage area network market.
In 2002, we expanded successfully into Asia with sales and support channels in Taiwan and Japan. 6% of fourth-quarter
revenues came from Asia, up from zero in the first two quarters of 2002. We expect this trend to continue.
We consolidated the engineering teams to promote synergies in software product development. The engineering operation
in Ottawa was closed but many of the engineers relocated to the Santa Cruz, California software development centre. 
This is one of the areas where we made significant cost reductions.
Product strategy and customer focus Our goal is to be the leading supplier of embedded systems technology. 
We have reduced the number of IP vendors that our customers need, which reduces their design risk, reduces their
development time and reduces their costs. Unlike our competitors in the IP space, ARC can guarantee that all the key
hardware and software components, for a specific design, will work together because we provide most of the technology.
ARC continues to enjoy the benefits of shifting its product strategy from a processor-centric approach to a system-level
approach and the customer response has been very encouraging. 
In 2002 we announced relationships with Intel Microelectronics Services, Oak Technologies, Hifn, Amlogic, Synopsys,
Mentor Graphics and others. In early 2003 we will announce the details of our relationships with several other companies.
We are developing products that expand our capability in consumer electronics, wired and wireless communications, 
and some new markets including computer security, encryption and storage area networking.
Chief Executive Officer’s review ARC International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
6
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
ARCtangent™ processor ARC was the first company to introduce a user-customisable RISC/DSP
processor. The ARCtangent™ is sythesisable, configurable and extensible, so users can readily modify
and extend the architecture for their specific applications. ARC currently provides two families of
ARCtangent™ processor cores, the A4 and the A5. ARC is the world leader in delivering user-
customisable RISC/DSP processors – we have secured more than 120 design wins since this product
was introduced. The Company achieved 29 new design licences for the ARCtangent™ processor in 
2002; 20 of these licensees were new customers.
In October 2002, ARC introduced the ARCtangent™-A5, a design that is targeted at those designers
developing communications and consumer electronic products with design cycles of six months or less.
This product integrates a single-software development chain and application-specific extensions with 
the ARCtangent™-A5 processor. 
USB Now ™ In June 2002, ARC introduced the world’s first USB 2.0 Hi-Speed On-The-Go controller
and, as of today, we are the only supplier of this vital new technology. In the fourth quarter, we added
six licensees for this product, for a six-month total of 13. 
According to InStat, an industry analyst firm, the market for Universal Serial Bus (“USB”) in non-PC
applications is growing twice as fast as demand in the PC market. ARC’s USB On-The-Go (“USB-OTG”)
product is strategically positioned to leverage the growing demand for mobility. USB-OTG eliminates 
the need to connect peripherals through a PC. 
WLAN Now ™ With the broadening acceptance of 802.11 as the wireless LAN technology of
choice, there is rapidly increasing market demand to enable all electronic devices with wireless
technology. This includes, but is not limited to, personal digital assistants (PDAs), consumer electronics
(audio, video, games), wireless terminals, home networking devices and broadband gateways (DSL,
cable, set-top boxes). Existing products are served with 802.11 chipsets. These chipsets are too
expensive, require too much power and occupy too much area to be used effectively within consumer,
handheld and embedded products.
With all kinds of digital electronics devices coming to market, users could become more
productive if they could mix and match the functionality of their portable devices. The vast
majority of computer peripherals currently communicate to each other through a computer via
the Universal Serial Bus (“USB”), although that is changing. An update to this standard interface,
called USB On-The-Go (“OTG”), eliminates the need to use a PC as the host interface. ARC is
the leader in USB 2.0 Hi-Speed OTG technology. In June, we introduced the industry’s first USB
On-The-Go IP platform, USB Now ™. Using ARC’s USB On-The-Go-based products, for example,
your digital cameras will be able to directly connect to cell phones and send images over the
internet. USB Now ™ has been a major success, with 13 licences signed in 2002, and is still 
the only product of its kind on the market.
USB On-The-Go eliminates the role of the PC 
as a go-between  7
Integration
“ARC helped make the task of porting the software as seamless as the hardware integration
effort. Ultimately, we found that ARC’s documentation and technical support were superior 
to other third-party processor core companies.”  
John Zhong, Chairman, President and CEO, Amlogic
Amlogic Inc, a leading supplier of highly integrated system-on-chip solutions for the fast growing
multimedia and internet consumer markets, selected the ARCtangent™-A4 core to be the brain
of a progressive scan DVD controller. The design objectives for the AML3300 chip were to
achieve the highest level of integration to support new features, while minimising the lowest cost
of ownership. The ARCtangent™ processor, combined with ARC’s RTOS, complier and debugger
tool suite, delivered, according to Amlogic, “the highest performance in the smallest footprint”.
Amlogic’s single-chip progressive scan DVD 
controller is ARC-enabled
First configurable and extensible RISC processor optimised for SoC implementations
ARC is the world leader in user-customisable RISC/DSP processors 8
Integration
Metrowerks, an independently operated subsidiary of Motorola, Inc., develops and markets
popular development tools for the PowerPC
®
peripheral. These tools are used by thousands 
of developers worldwide. In July, the two companies reached a joint marketing agreement that
will allow Metrowerks to bundle and distribute ARC’s software to its worldwide customer base.
ARC signs software marketing agreement 
with Metrowerks/Motorola
Single-source solution for embedded software and development tools 9
ARC International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
ARC launched WLAN Now ™, the 802.11 multi-protocol MAC and baseband product, in early 2003. 
A low-cost, small footprint technology offering that is suitable for integration at the chip level into
consumer, handheld and embedded products.
Other new products ARC is on target to introduce several additional products during the rest of
2003. ARC will continue to innovate in an ongoing effort to make it easy for our customers to create
embedded systems, by simplifying the complexity of designing, verifying and producing integrated
circuits and the software that runs on these integrated circuits.
Asia sales expansion Asia offers a huge opportunity for ARC. Through strategic alliances and
partnerships ARC is bringing its entire portfolio of intellectual property to the Asian market. In May, 
we hired a sales manager for Asia. In July, we established a partnership with e-MDT and Hynix
Semiconductor to provide full turnkey design services for products based on our technology in China 
and Korea. In August, we signed EDOM Technology as the distributor of ARC’s products in Taiwan 
and China. In November, we announced the opening of our office in Taiwan and announced plans 
to open an office in Japan. This preliminary effort resulted in an increase in our Asia revenue from 
zero in the first two quarters of the year to 6% of total revenue in the fourth quarter.
Strategic alliances Strategic alliances are very important for ARC to achieve the goal of building a
long-term profitable business. We have announced several strategic alliances this year and will continue
to partner with those companies that provide “Best of Breed” technology, to complement our approach 
to product design. In addition to relationships with Synopsys, Standard Microsystems, Hynix, e-MDT 
and Denali Software, we negotiated alliances with: 
  Metrowerks, an independently operated subsidiary of Motorola, Inc., that signed an agreement 
in July to distribute ARC software products to its worldwide customer base.
  Mentor Graphics announced co-verification model support for the family of ARCtangent™ 
user-customisable RISC/DSP cores in early December.
  Ashling Microsystems, a recognised expert in embedded software development tools, agreed 
in October to extend its suite of emulators and trace development tools to the ARCtangent™ 
user-customisable 32-bit RISC/DSP microprocessor.
WLAN, or WiFi, short for wireless fidelity, means that the cables that hook your computer to 
the network are replaced by small, low-powered, two-way radios. Users can transmit distances
of several dozen to several hundred feet without having to deal with cables. ARC’s WLAN
Now ™ development platform will speed the development and deployment of designs for 
this new standard. 
ARC’s WLAN Now ™ offering is a complete IEEE 802.11a/b/g modem/baseband and MAC
soft IP building block solution for SoC-based wireless LAN access point and client devices.
WLAN Now ™ enables designers looking to integrate 802.11 functionality into their systems 
or chips. This is a cost-effective, small footprint approach, making integration into a broad
array of products feasible.
Wireless LAN (“WLAN”) technology promises greater
mobility, convenience and improved productivity ARC International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
10
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
Business integration In June, we announced that we had completed the integration of ARC’s
subsidiary companies into a single functional organisation. VAutomation, Precise Software Technologies
and MetaWare now all operate under the ARC International brand name. This has resulted in significant
improvements in ARC’s product offering and image in the marketplace. For customers, such as SanDisk,
Hifn, QLogic, RF Micro Devices, Fujitsu, Infineon Technologies, Sun Microsystems and many others, ARC
is a one-stop shop for embedded RISC/DSP processors, RTOS, software, peripherals and development
tools. ARC has a unique product portfolio and we offer integrated products that are not available from
any other company. During the second half of the year, we consolidated ARC’s software engineering
teams to promote synergies in software product development and reduce the overall cost structure. 
The transition was completed in early 2003. Our engineering facility in Ottawa was closed and 
a number of the Ottawa based RTOS and protocol software engineers were relocated to Santa Cruz,
California, where ARC’s software development team is headquartered. 
People In the past 12 months, ARC’s management team has been significantly strengthened; 
we now have a new management team with the experience and skills to lead ARC to profitability.
Headcount at the end of 2002 was 198 compared to 223 at the end of 2001, a reduction 
of 11% over the year. We centralised and streamlined many functions, which has led to improved 
results and reduced costs.
Outlook Our growth in 2003 will be driven by new products and by expansion into Asia. 
Our customer activity has significantly increased over the past year – we are working with a record
number of prospective new customers. We believe that this will lead to continued organic growth 
as we convert prospective licensees into new valued customers.
Mike Gulett President and Chief Executive Officer
San Jose, California
27 February 2003
“The ARCtangent™ cores offer the customisation and flexibility we need to utilise multiple
instances with optimised size and performance for each task.” 
John Metzger, VP of Engineering, Hifn, Inc
Hifn, a leading supplier of advanced compression, encryption and classification technologies,
selected the ARCtangent™-A5 development platform for their next-generation security
architecture, the HIPP III security processor with FlowThrough™ technology. Hifn’s integrated
data flow technology enables secure intelligent networks, central to the growth of the internet,
helping to make browsing, internet shopping and multimedia communications better, faster 
and more secure. The ARCtangent™ platform provided the essential blend of programmability
and performance required for the most demanding and advanced applications.
ARC powers Hifn’s next-generation FlowThrough
™
security processor family 11
Integration
Micronas is a leading supplier of cutting-edge IC and sensor system solutions for consumer
electronics, multimedia and automotive electronics. In 2002, Micronas selected ARC’s recently
released USB Hi-Speed On-The-Go controller, and will use USB Hi-Speed OTG to develop 
new products for its targeted consumer and multimedia markets. 
This is the second time Micronas has licensed USB technology from ARC. In early 2001,
Micronas integrated ARC’s USB core into an audio controller that was developed for a range
of dedicated audio applications such as USB headsets, PC connectivity for stereo systems, 
and online gaming, including the Live Kit for the Microsoft® Xbox. 
Micronas licenses ARC’s USB Hi-Speed 
On-The-Go controller
World’s first SoC IP platform integrated and optimised for Hi-Speed USB On-The-Go
Wi Fi (802.11) wireless LAN IP platform integrated and optimised for SoC implementations
