 04
Ocado Group plc  Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011
21066-04 08/02/2012 Proof 1
Chief executive Officer’s review 
  
Chief Executive Officer’s review
during the past year, Ocado has made significant progress in 
growing sales and increasing capacity to support future growth.  
against the background of the weak uK economy, gross sales 
have grown by 16.6%.  w e are very grateful to our customers 
for their loyalty and support.
Market development
the importance of the online grocery market in the uK, while 
still in its infancy, is now recognised by most major grocery 
retailers.  Customers continue to migrate from shopping in 
stores for groceries to shopping online.  this is borne out by 
average orders per week at Ocado in 2011 increasing by 18.6% 
from 92,916 to 110,219.  a recent report from the institute 
of grocery distribution forecast that the uK online grocery 
market will reach £11 billion of sales by 2016.  w e believe the 
biggest threat to the growth of the online market is under-
investment; retailers will not be able to fully service increasing 
customer demand unless they invest in online sales capacity.
Competition in the online grocery sector is already as strong 
as the traditional store-based sector, and will almost certainly 
increase.  w e believe the best way for Ocado to acquire new 
customers, as well as retain existing customers, is to continue 
to develop and improve the Ocado offer.  w e have worked to 
improve this on many levels for the benefit of our customers.
Capacity expansion
this year we developed CfC1 towards its ultimate capacity 
of 180,000 orders per week.  investment was made in major 
upgrades to our proprietary software running the warehouse 
operation; in additional storage, picking and tote conveyor 
capacity; and in the power infrastructure of CfC1.  in 2012 we 
are planning further investment in CfC1 to take capacity to 
around 160,000 orders per week by year end.
as i have said in previous updates on the business, increasing 
the capacity of CfC1 to cope with increased sales demand 
has presented operational challenges.  during the year several 
major construction projects were completed in CfC1 while 
the picking of groceries continued.  that we were able to 
do this is a credit to the planning and execution skills of our 
engineering and CfC1 teams.  w e temporarily reduced our 
product range to under 20,000 lines during the year to create 
space for construction of additional automation.  in h2 2011 we 
hired additional temporary staff and reintroduced some manual 
trolley-picking to provide a short-term increase in operational 
capacity.  as a result of these changes, CfC1 efficiency measured 
in units per hour (“uph”) dropped by 8.2% from 121 uph to 
111 uph.  as new equipment becomes operational in CfC1 
over the next 12 months, we expect to see a rise in efficiency 
towards our long-term target of 180 uph.
“against the backdrop of a weak uK economy, we  
have continued to see material growth in the online  
grocery market.  w e believe this is evidence of a 
structural shift in consumer behaviour; we expect 
continued expansion of this market in the future.”
Tim Steiner Chief executive Officer
faC t
Over 30,000 litres Of milK 
are delivered daily t O Our 
hatfield CfC fOr next day 
delivery t O Our Cust Omers
Oxford
southampton
manchester
leeds
dartford
Coventry
w eybridge
bristol
CfC1: hatfield
CfC2: dordon
Ocado’s marketplace
COverage: O ver 70% Of uK 
hOusehOlds and gr Owing
spokes
CfCs
wimbledon
white City 05 Stock code: OCDO www.ocadogroup.com
Governance abOut OC aDO Our reSpOnSibilitieS Our finanCialS Our perfOrmanCe
21066-04 08/02/2012 Proof 1
Chief executive Officer’s review  
 
Construction is advancing well at CfC2 in dordon, 
w arwickshire.  w ork on the building, services and ancillary 
infrastructure is substantially complete and equipment 
installation has started.  it remains on budget and on time to 
open in Q1 2013.  systems testing is currently planned to start 
in mid-2012, with initial operations scheduled to commence 
in early 2013, giving us a six month testing and commissioning 
window.  w e believe CfC2 will represent the single biggest 
increase in capacity by a grocery retailer serving the online 
market in the uK.  it is a key part of our drive to secure 
Ocado’s leading position in this fast growing market.
Customer demand
more customers are shopping online, and doing so more 
frequently.  this is causing a slight decline in basket size, and we 
have seen the average order size at Ocado during the year 
fall by 1.7% from £114.06 to £112.15.  most of this decrease 
is due to the shift of customers towards the Ocado delivery 
pass (“Odp”), one of our key customer loyalty schemes.  there 
are two reasons for this: the majority of Ocado orders are 
now placed using the Odp scheme, and these customers 
have a higher overall spend as increased shopping frequency 
more than offsets the lower average basket for this customer 
group.  nevertheless it is also clear that Ocado customers are 
feeling the same budgetary pressures that are affecting british 
consumers elsewhere and towards the end of 2011 we began 
to see a slight change in product mix and baskets that were on 
average one item smaller.
Operating efficiency
Our delivery network’s performance continued to improve 
throughout the year.  w e opened new spokes in bristol and 
wimbledon and after the period end, in Oxfordshire.  the 
bristol spoke has enabled us to expand our service coverage 
into the south w est of england and south w ales.  whilst we 
already operate in wimbledon, this new spoke increased our 
capacity in the london area by around 17,000 orders per 
week.  the opening of these spokes increased the operational 
efficiency of our existing delivery network.
the increasing scale of the business, combined with 
ongoing upgrades to routing software and van design have 
contributed to deliveries per van per week (“dpv/week”) 
increasing by 8.7% to 145 dpv/week.  during the year the 
peak was 165 dpv/week.  the on-time delivery performance 
was 92.3%, down from 94.9% in the previous year, largely due 
to the impact of significant development works in CfC1.
Grocery range
w e have continued to develop our grocery range and 
Ocado now offers a grocery range equivalent in size to our 
largest store-based competitors.  Our investment in CfC1 
will enable us to grow this from the level of around 20,000 
products we had at year end, to over 30,000 products over 
the next year.  the Ocado own-label range has more than 
doubled during the year to 620 products.  Our own-label 
range is comparable in price and quality to similar products of 
our major competitors and has proved very popular. 70% of 
all Ocado baskets now contain at least one Ocado own-label 
product.  in addition, we have a growing number of specialist 
ranges such as Carrefour’s “reflets de france” range of 
authentic french produce, as well as leading organic suppliers 
such as daylesford Organic and laverstoke p ark farm.
Non-food business 
in line with the objectives we set out at our ipO, we continue to 
expand our range of non-food items.  w e recruited a dedicated 
non-food team to drive this expansion forward.  w e plan to 
increase significantly our non-food range by the end of 2013.
Delivery Productivity 
(drops per van per week)
133
2009
121
145
2008
106
*long-term target
2010 2011
175* 06
Ocado Group plc  Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011
21066-04 08/02/2012 Proof 1
Chief executive Officer’s review 
  
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
Value
w e continue to focus on offering greater value to an ever 
widening customer base.  w e have done this by investing in 
price in four main ways: increasing the number of products on 
promotion, continuing our t esco price match on all identical 
products not on promotion to approximately 7,000 products 
by the end of 2011, expanding the Ocado own label range, 
and launching the Ocado saving pass.  the Ocado saving 
pass enables our customers to make at least a 10% saving on 
over 600 leading branded products.  this includes products 
that are already price-matched to t esco, in return for a small 
annual fee.  all these initiatives were achieved while delivering 
the freshest produce to customers through our shorter 
supply chain, accompanied by our product life guarantee.
T echnology and innovation –  
website and mobile interfaces
the launch of Ocado’s latest w ebshop was completed in 
Q1 2011.  it has proved to be very successful, receiving 
excellent customer feedback.  the w ebshop enabled 
customers to shop up to 25% faster than before.  w e 
regularly make enhancements to our w ebshop and use our 
technological base to improve the customer experience and 
service.  w e launched “shop in shop”, allowing suppliers to 
showcase their specific ranges in their own dedicated section 
of the w ebshop.  
Checkouts via mobile devices grew to 18% of checkouts by 
the end of the period, up from 12% at the beginning of 
the year.  
w e enhanced the functionality and usability of the existing 
Ocado apps available for the iphone, the ipad and the 
android platform, and developed Ocado apps for the 
blackberry and the windows phone 7 mobile devices.  
Other software developments included our “One-Click 
additions” feature, allowing customers on mobile devices 
to amend an existing delivery without needing to check out 
again.  Ocado is the only uK supermarket to offer customers 
full shopping functionality on all leading smartphone devices.  
w e also implemented a new Crm platform to improve the 
efficiency of our call centre and provide substantial benefits 
to customer service.  Ocado’s software development 
achievements were recognised with Ocado being awarded 
a grocer gold a ward for Consumer initiative of the year 
in 2011.
“ w e will continue in 2012 to pursue our core strategy of improving 
our offer to customers and increasing capacity to meet growing demand.  
it is our mission to ensure that customers continue to regard Ocado 
as the market-leading offer in online grocery shopping.”
Tim Steiner Chief executive Officer
faC t
OCadO CfC COmputers 
maKe O ver 10 milliOn 
COnvey Or-belt r Outing 
deCisiOns every day
faC t
a reCent stud y revealed 
that 69.5% Of Our basKets 
Of branded pr OduCts were 
Cheaper than tesCO .COm 07 Stock code: OCDO www.ocadogroup.com
Governance abOut OC aDO Our reSpOnSibilitieS Our finanCialS Our perfOrmanCe
21066-04 08/02/2012 Proof 1
Chief executive Officer’s review  
 
People and recognition
the key to our success is the energy and commitment of 
nearly 6,000 employees in different areas of the business.  
i would like to recognise the tremendous efforts made by 
them throughout the year.  Our customers and industry 
observers regularly comment on the outstanding service 
provided by our delivery team of over 2,000 Customer 
service t eam members.  the measures taken by Ocado to 
make its delivery vehicles safe were again recognised in 2011 
by Ocado winning for the second year running the safe 
vehicles a ward at the fleet safety forum a wards, organised 
by road safety charity brake.  Ocado also won the fleet van 
Operator of the year at the fleet t ransport a wards.
the overall standard of the business was again recognised with 
our selection as a finalist for the etailer of the year award at the 
2011 Oracle w orld retail a wards, and being voted the favourite 
online supermarket in the which? magazine reader surveys.  
in november 2011, we signed a voluntary union recognition 
agreement with usdaw for Ocado’s hourly paid employees at 
all our current operational sites.  usdaw representatives will 
participate on our existing Ocado Council to voice the views of 
the employees they represent.  the Ocado Council continues to 
be the forum that we use to consult with our employees.
Current trading and outlook
against the backdrop of the weak uK economy, we have 
continued to see growth in the online grocery retail market.  
w e believe this is evidence of a structural shift in consumer 
behaviour and we will see continued expansion of the 
market.  Ocado is well positioned to capture this growth as 
the market-leading offer in online grocery shopping.
Ocado achieved gross sales growth of 16.6% in 2011, during 
a period of capacity constraints at CfC1. Our growth has 
continued into 2012; sales growth in the first quarter was 
10.9%, similar to Q4 2011.  given the sales growth profile we 
experienced in 2011 as a result of capacity constraints, we 
expect our growth rate to improve as the year progresses.
in 2012 we will continue to pursue our existing strategy 
to improve what we offer our customers, to complete 
the capacity expansion work at CfC1 and to continue the 
build, commissioning and testing of CfC2.  w e will focus on 
improving the levels of service, beyond that which we gave 
our customers in the second half of 2011.
it is our mission to make sure that customers continue to 
regard Ocado as the market-leading offer in online grocery 
shopping.  w e will continue to provide for and capture the 
growth of this market sector.  the operational leverage we 
have in our business positions us strongly to benefit from 
increased scale to achieve a level of profitability that satisfies 
all stakeholders in the business.
Tim Steiner
Chief executive Officer
