 03 Stock code: OCDO www.ocadogroup.com
Governance abOut OC aDO Our reSpOnSibilitieS Our finanCialS Our perfOrmanCe
21066-04 08/02/2012 Proof 1
Chairman’s letter  
  Chairman’s letter
dear shareholder
Overview
w e are now in our second year as a public listed company 
and i am pleased to report that the business continues to 
see significant sales growth and improvements in operational 
profitability.
during the year the group invested heavily and continues to 
do so, in the development of its second Customer fulfilment 
Centre at dordon, w arwickshire.  this major development will 
ensure Ocado is in a prime position to take full advantage of the 
rapid growth expected in the online grocery business over the 
coming years.  
People
i am greatly inspired and hugely impressed by the level of 
service and quality of offering that our people deliver.  Ocado’s 
impressive record in achieving awards for innovation and quality 
of service continued during the year and is testament to the 
efforts and talent of our workforce.  i wish to thank all members 
of the Ocado family for their continued support.
Board changes
andrew bracey has resigned as Chief financial Officer from the 
board, and a process is underway to find a new Chief financial 
Officer.  andrew is expected to leave after the publication of this 
annual report. david young, who joined the board in 2000, has 
also expressed his intention to resign as non-executive director 
at the agm.  i would like to pay thanks to andrew and david 
for their valuable contribution to the success of Ocado and wish 
them every success for the future.  
w e welcomed mark richardson to the board in the newly 
created role of Operations director.  since 2001, as head 
of technology, mark had led the Ocado technology team in 
developing our website, mobile applications and warehouse it 
system.
existing board members Jason gissing and neill abrams also 
had changes to their roles during the period.  Jason has taken on 
the new board position of Commercial director and neill has 
assumed responsibility for human resources in addition to his 
current role as legal and business affairs director.
w e also welcomed three new non-executive directors onto 
the board in douglas mcCallum, w endy becker and alex 
mahon.  douglas’ high-level experience in e-commerce and it ,  
w endy’s wealth of experience in retail, technology and customer 
service and alex’s experience in media, strategy and corporate 
development will complement the skill set of the existing board.  
w endy will chair the remuneration Committee upon the 
retirement of david young. 
Corporate governance 
the board has a wide range of responsibilities.  there are three 
that are particularly important for the success of the business, 
first, to debate, determine and oversee the execution of our 
strategy; second, to ensure that we have the most talented 
team to execute this strategy and that we plan effectively for 
succession; and third, to ensure effective governance.
securing the right balance of skills, experience and perspectives 
on the board is a key responsibility to ensure that the board 
works effectively as a team towards shared goals with the right 
mix of enquiry and support of the executive directors from the 
non-executive directors.  the nomination Committee report 
on pages 36 to 37 describes this work.  w e always seek to run 
our business in a responsible way, and we have a very strong 
team which is mindful of its responsibilities not just in helping to 
deliver the strategy but also in overseeing financial controls and 
risk management.
Our governance reporting obligations are set out in the uK 
Corporate governance Code.  the appointment of the three 
new non-executive directors moves the board closer to the 
board’s desired full compliance with the 2010 Code in respect 
of board independence.  a detailed statement of corporate 
governance can be found on pages 30 to 45 of this annual 
report.  
i am also mindful of my responsibility as Chairman to lead the 
board and ensure that it is working effectively.  this year a board 
evaluation was carried out with the frC’s guidance on board 
effectiveness in mind.  i am encouraged, as reinforced by our 
board’s performance review, that our board operates effectively 
and is properly engaged. 
Corporate social responsibility
Operating our business in a responsible way is fundamental both 
to the way we operate and to delivering sustainable profits and 
long-term value for our shareholders.
w e have continued to explore methods of reducing our impact 
on the environment, including the use of anaerobic digestion to 
produce electricity from our food waste, use of electric vans in 
our london spokes and continuing our closed-loop carrier bag 
recycling system.  w e have also supported the Japan appeal and 
macmillan Cancer support among other important causes.  the 
corporate social responsibility report found on pages 24 to 27 
describes our responsibilities here. 
Looking forward
i am excited about Ocado’s future and i look forward to the 
continued expansion of our business.  as a board, we remain 
confident that our strategy and business plan will allow Ocado 
to grow and deliver our commitment to create value for our 
shareholders.
Lord Grade of Yarmouth
Chairman 
Ocado group plc
lord grade of yarmouth
Chairman
