 04
Chairman’s Statement
Ocado Group plc  Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 28 November 2010 04
Chairman’s Statement
Ocado Group plc  Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 28 November 2010
20177-04  22/03/2011 Proof 12
Chief Executive Officer’s review
The past year has been a year of significant progress for Ocado.  
In the core operations we delivered a strong set of results for 
2010.  Our strategy of continuously improving our market leading 
customer offer continued to drive sales growth which has delivered 
through to the bottom line.  This was a tremendous achievement by 
all the members of the Ocado team.
Delivering gross sales growth of 29% to £551.1 million against the 
backdrop of a weak UK economy is a strong result.  As the business 
grows and starts to achieve scale we are seeing the benefits of 
considerable operational leverage.  The business achieved numerous 
financial milestones in the year including reporting an adjusted EBIT 
profit for the second half of the year and being profitable at the EBT 
level for the final quarter (16 trading weeks).
The UK online grocery market is still at an early stage of 
development.  We believe the most effective way Ocado can increase 
adoption is to continue improving our customer offering.  As in 
previous years, we have worked hard to improve this on many levels, 
including working on range, price, availability, accuracy, ease of use as 
well as other service initiatives.
This year we expanded our range to 21.5k SKUs from 20.5k at the 
end of FY09, all of which are available to customers in the whole 
of our delivery geography.  T o put this in context, we have now 
taken our range from being among the smallest offered in any UK 
supermarket three years ago to one of the largest ranges today.  As 
we expand the capacity of the CFC further we expect to be able to 
offer the largest grocery range of any major UK supermarket.
A particularly important addition to our range this year has been the 
launch of the Ocado own-label range, which has been introduced to 
complement the Waitrose own-label products.  It offers the Ocado 
customer a range that matches closely in price and quality the core 
own-label ranges of the major UK supermarkets.  It has been a 
great achievement to build the team and the supplier relationships 
necessary to source and develop the Ocado own-label range.  While 
it is still early days we have seen strong take-up with 64% of all 
baskets containing an Ocado product in the final four week period 
of the year.  The Ocado own-label range now has over 250 products 
and we expect this to grow substantially in the coming years.
The launch of the Ocado range touches on another key area where 
we have improved this year, pricing.  We have continued to invest in 
our price positioning over the year through both range and absolute 
pricing.  Due to our increasing scale we managed to maintain 
margin while making these investments in price.  We continued our 
commitment to match the standard prices of all identical items of the 
UK’s largest supermarket group.  As we have expanded our range, 
we have increased the number of T esco Price Match items to c.7,200.  
We also launched “Switch and Save” which allows our customers to 
move to lower priced products with improved value as they check 
out.  This year we have run more promotions than ever before, 
increasing the value of our service to our customers.  The investments 
made in pricing over recent years have been recognised by the 
consumer and have led to a broadening of our customer base from a 
demographic perspective.
We also made substantial improvements this year to our customer 
interfaces with the aim of providing the customer with the best 
possible experience in online grocery shopping regardless of how 
they want to interact with Ocado, whether on the website, mobile 
phone or iPad.  This year we also upgraded the website and iPhone 
app and launched apps on the iPad and Android mobile devices with 
mobile checkouts reaching 12% since the New Y ear.
In November we launched the new version of the Ocado website.  
This has been a major operation involving teams across the business 
from trading through to creative to IT .  We have had a positive 
reaction from our customers and its introduction has driven an 
increased average spend per order.  Beyond the improved customer 
interface the new website provides a new back end platform which 
will allow us to continue to innovate over the coming years.
Ocado received numerous industry awards for its customer offer, 
including World Etailer of the Y ear 2010 at the Oracle World retail 
Awards.  However, we are not resting on our laurels and there are 
many customer offer developments planned for the coming year.
Tim Steiner 
Chief Executive Officer
Jan 2010 Jul 2010 Jan 2011 10
21.5k
09
20.5k
08
16k
SKU COUNT CHECKOUTS ON MOBILE DEvICES BY MONTH
15%
10%
5%
0%
% Checkouts 05
Chairman’s Statement
Stock code: OCDO www.ocadogroup.com
20177-04  22/03/2011 Proof 12
05
Chairman’s Statement
Stock code: OCDO www.ocadogroup.com
Our Performance
The customer offer improvements have led to both a significant 
increase in new customers using the service and an increase in spend 
per customer.  Average orders per week increased from 70,873 in 
FY09 to 92,916 in FY10, and exceeded 100,000 for the first time in 
the week commencing 10 May 2010.  As expected, average order 
size showed a slight decrease to £114.06 for the year.  This is due to 
changing customer behaviour with customers continuing to increase 
their frequency of shop but with a slight decline in order size.  We are 
pleased to note that we have seen the rate of decline slow over the 
course of the year.
Significant effort was also spent over the year on the behind the 
scenes projects which enable us to deliver capacity growth and 
customer offer improvements.  These occurred in all areas of the 
business affecting processes, software and hardware.  For example 
in the CFC one of the major projects was the addition of three new 
chill aisles.  This enabled the termination of the relatively inefficient 
process of trolley picking for chilled goods.  On the software side over 
1,500 individual changes were made to our CFC systems.
As we explained at the time of the IPO, increasing the scale of 
the business at this rate presents operational challenges.  The CFC 
capacity grew in line with expectations with a slight impact on 
productivity gains.  We reintroduced a number of processes, such as 
trolley picking, to help cope with increased demand.  This impacted 
CFC efficiency with units per hour (“UPH”) decreasing by 2.2% to 
121 UPH.  As our planned capital spend is invested in CFC1 over 
the coming years, we expect productivity to rise substantially and the 
long-term target of 180 UPH remains in place.  At 99% for the year, 
the accuracy of our offer remained at a level we believe is significantly 
higher than our competitors.  This is slightly down on last year and we 
expect the capital projects planned for the CFC will improve this.
On the delivery side of the business the progress towards the long-
term target is more linear and we have seen significant improvement 
this year.
The increasing scale combined with upgrades to the routing software 
and vans has led to drops per van per week (“DPv/wk”) increasing 
by 10% to 133.  In the most productive week of the year we achieved 
159 DPv/wk (compared to our long-term target of 175 DPv/wk).
Outside the core operations, this has been a significant year for the 
business.  Three major events occurred that are the building blocks 
for the long-term success of the business.  In May, we signed a new 
ten year agreement with Waitrose.  We were delighted to sign this 
agreement which is our fifth and longest contract with Waitrose.  This 
ensures that we will continue our relationship, which is now in its 
eleventh year.  In July, Ocado Group plc (the “Company”) listed on 
the London Stock Exchange.  This has many benefits for the Company 
and its shareholders but the primary benefit was to raise significant 
funds.  These will be used to fund the capital projects required to 
serve the demand we expect to see in the online grocery market.  In 
October, we reached agreement to purchase the site for a second 
CFC (“CFC2”); this is the most substantial capital project in the plan 
to more than triple the capacity of the business from 2009 to 2013.
Current trading and outlook 
As we announced on 4 March 2011 our growth has continued into 
the new financial year seeing gross sales increase by 25% in Q1.  
We are focused on positioning ourselves to take advantage of the 
significant latent demand for online grocery in the UK.  We continue 
to improve the customer offer, while at the same time build capacity 
to serve the increasing demand.  
“This was a landmark year for Ocado with gross sales up 29% for the year, we have delivered on 
the targets set out at the flotation.  We have continued our focus on improving the customer 
offer, which has led to a record number of customers and sales with the achievement of 
profitability in the final quarter.  Ocado’s growth continues to outpace the market.”
Tim Steiner, Chief Executive Officer
DELIvEr Y Pr ODUCTIvITY 
(Dr OPS PEr v AN PEr WEEK)
Long-term target
175
106
08
121
09
133
10
CFC Pr ODUCTIvITY (UNITS PEr HOUr)
Long-term target
08
114
09
124
10
121
180
