 Chief Executive’s Review
The market for our products and
services is largely driven by
employment levels in office and
administrative jobs. Comparatively
strong employment in the UK and
Ireland has underpinned solid
demand in 2004.
6 office2office Annual Report 2004 OUR PROPOSITION
We provide a combination of the most cost-
effective solution to fulfil customers’ office
needs together with high levels of customer
service. This gives our customers both
economic benefit and peace of mind.
We offer our customers a broad product
range, which is delivered rapidly and
accurately. This supply model is enhanced by
a variety of e-commerce solutions and we
constantly seek to build stronger customer
relationships by developing additional services
and enhancing our overall service offering. 
The one-stop-shop solution for a wide range
of office goods and services, with just one bill
to pay, provides a cost-effective model for
customers to manage their procurement.
STRATEGY
The Group’s strategy is to achieve sales and
profit growth by: expanding its customer base
and broadening its range of products and
services; driving increased productivity and
efficiency in operations; and making suitable
acquisitions.
PROGRESS
This strategy, which produced strong growth
in both sales and profits prior to flotation, has
led to another successful year of sales and
profit growth in 2004, before taking account of
exceptional flotation costs, combined with
strong operating cash flow.
This year, the UK Government’s public sector
spending review has produced a trend of
public-sector contract consolidation both
within our existing customer base and across
the wider public sector. Our response to
counteract this trend has been actively to
expand and diversify our customer base,
whilst providing a high quality, efficient service
to our existing customers. I am pleased to
report continued broadening of our customer
base in 2004.
The nature of our business means that in
addition to bidding for new business, we also
bid to retain a significant proportion of existing
customers’ expenditure every year as their
current contracts come to an end. During the
year we continued with successful re-tender
campaigns.
The Group’s Stock Market listing has helped
to raise its profile, establish a diversified
shareholder base and position it for future
development.
Chief Executive’s Review
7 office2office Annual Report 2004 Chief Executive’s Review
PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS
An important element in winning business with
both existing and new customers is adding
new products to our range, both to broaden
trade with our customers and to reduce their
total costs of procurement. The range
includes branded goods together with a
selection of products under the Group’s own
label, Banner, as well as Group branded
services. This year we have made significant
progress in developing a more complete
solution for customers seeking greater visibility
and control over sundry purchasing
expenditure.
E-COMMERCE
Effective e-commerce is very important in a
mostly high-volume, low-value environment. In
2004 the number of orders processed
electronically grew by 52%. In addition, the
proportion of orders received electronically
has also increased by 10% to 48% of the
total. 
The Group continues to develop its e-
commerce systems and capabilities, which
are essential aids to efficient order handling
and low-cost fulfilment, whilst providing
greater visibility of transactions and control
over expenditure. 
EUROPEAN OFFICE SUPPLIES
ALLIANCE (“EOSA”)
EOSA, the Europe-wide alliance of office
supplies companies, of which we are a
founder member, has further expanded its
international coverage by co-operation
agreements with independent companies in
the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland. 
The alliance has existed since 2002 to provide
pan-European supply arrangements for multi-
national companies and to co-operate in the
sourcing and purchasing of products. The
sales of the ten companies co-operating
under the EOSA name amount to some
$850m. 
To manage global customers’ requirements,
worldwide co-operation has been established
with a major North American contract supplier
of office products, which operates in five
countries: USA, Canada, Mexico, Australia
and New Zealand.
THE ENVIRONMENT
The Group’s environmentally preferred range,
Globe & Tick™, has continued to expand as
environmental concerns become increasingly
important in both the public and private
sectors. Sales of recycled products, including
paper, have grown and are continuing to
become an increasingly important part of 
our range.
Managing the Group’s environmental impact is
a high priority. Our fleet now includes a
number of LPG vehicles and the majority of
packaging is recycled to minimise landfill.
Once again the Group has been awarded the
British Office Supplies and Services
Federation (BOSS) Environment Certificate. 
8 office2office Annual Report 2004 REVIEW OF CUSTOMER
SATISFACTION
The results of our annual independent market
research survey once again confirmed the
value of the efforts we have directed to
improve our service to our customers. This is
an important focus for us and we will continue
to be guided by customer demand to ensure
that our standards of service meet or exceed
their expectations.
PEOPLE
The Company has a committed team of
people, which is reflected in their response to
our market listing. 53% of our eligible
employees have joined the SAYE scheme,
which was established post-flotation.
THE FUTURE
In 2005 we aim to win more customers,
succeed in the bids for the significant
proportion of customer contracts coming up
for re-tender, whilst at the same time,
expanding sales of our wider range of
products and services to existing customers
and minimising any adverse impact of the
trend towards public sector consolidation.
Our teams are focussed on producing sales
and profit growth and continuing to improve
our levels of customer service. We have
capacity in our infrastructure for expansion
together with the people to build on our
previous growth and we continue to enhance
our customer offer.
R C Peck
Chief Executive Officer
14 March 2005 
Chief Executive’s Review
9 office2office Annual Report 2004
