 Simon Moate Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Review
Over the last 18 months we have laid the foundations to 
transform o2o into a leading managed services business 
focused on four brands – Banner Business Services, Accord, 
AccessPlus and Banner Document Services. Our aim is to 
deliver first rate service to our customers through managed 
procurement and business critical services.
o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008  Logistics
Good 
for you, 
good for us,
good for 
everyone
ManagedProcurement
BusinessCommunication
SecureDocumentDestruction
ManagedProcurement
Public sector
55% of turnover
Private sector
45% of turnover
Commitmenttoasustainablefuture
MidMarketSector
o2oIntegratedSupplyChain
BusinessCriticalServices
BusinessCriticalServices
LargeContractMarket
o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 5
Strategy
Last year we stated that our key objectives 
for 2008 were to enlarge and diversify our 
customer base, expand our routes to market 
beyond traditional contract office supplies 
and extend our service and product ranges. 
These objectives have been achieved both 
organically and by taking advantage of 
suitable acquisition opportunities as referred 
to in the Chairman’s Statement.
Four trading brands covering the core 
activities of managed procurement and 
business critical services underpin the 
Group’s broadened activities:
“Banner Business Services”, which has 
been at the core of o2o for many years, 
is a market leader for the managed 
procurement of office and business 
products for large private and public 
sector customers;
“Accord” is our new managed 
procurement brand that trades alongside 
BBS but in the mid market sector;
“AccessPlus” is the core of our new 
business critical services activity 
and provides innovative business 
communication and print management 
solutions to organisations seeking to 
l
l
l
reduce costs and streamline business 
process outsourcing; and
“Banner Document Services” is a 
partnership with Shred Easy and 
provides secure document destruction 
services. It is our second business critical 
services trading brand. 
Through these broadened activities we 
are able to address a wider customer 
base and to sell a broader portfolio 
of business products and services to 
both contracted and non-contracted 
customers. Each activity is supported by 
our Group wide integrated supply chain.
A changing market
In 2008 we experienced unprecedented 
cost price inflation, initially fuelled by the rise 
in the cost of oil, paper pulp and steel and, 
more recently, by the impact of a weaker 
sterling. These pressures continue and a key 
focus has been, and remains, to minimise 
the impact of this on our profitability. 
The scale and synergies derived from our 
acquisitions together with the benefits from 
restructuring the existing business have 
enabled greater control over our variable 
overheads and enhanced our ability to 
adapt to changed economic circumstances. 
l
We continue to improve our customer 
focus and, further, we believe that the 
public sector, which forms a large part of 
our customer base, is relatively resilient in 
the current economic climate, at least in 
the short term. 
Moving forward
Delivering customer value is a key focus 
and a number of programmes, which are 
described below, ensure that we continue 
to deliver value and differentiate o2o from 
its competitors.
These programmes underline a 
Group wide trading ethic entitled 
‘Good for you, good for us, good for 
everyone’. By embracing Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR), we can provide 
added value to our customers and, at 
the same time, create tangible benefits 
for our business and the environment. 
This is explained in more detail in the 
CSR Statement on pages 14 to 16.
o2o Group | Managed procurement & business critical services o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 6
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Managed Procurement | Large contract market
BBS is a market leader in the 
provision of long term contract 
management and procurement 
of office and business products 
for large private and public 
sector customers. BBS accounts 
for around 80% of revenues 
from the managed procurement 
segment of our business. It is 
focused on delivering value to 
our customers and increasing 
value to o2o through a number 
of change programmes.
Firstly, BBS has shifted its customer 
services focus from a reactive to a 
proactive tele-account management 
team working with customers to gain an 
understanding of the challenges they 
face and to help them select the best 
products for their requirements. This 
initiative has been a great success in 
developing relationships and enhancing 
the quality of service. The benefits of 
efficient ordering and, consequently, 
reduced distribution costs are mutually 
enjoyed by BBS and its customers. 
Further, BBS has revised its business 
model in response to changing customer 
needs. For example, the renewal of the 
BBS service agreement with Barclays 
Group incorporates a procurement model 
based on an open trading relationship. 
The renewal of this agreement supports 
the o2o strategy to seek long term, 
strategic customer relationships, based on 
managed services and shared interests. 
In addition, waste management and 
environmentally preferred product 
initiatives have been extended and include:
a waste audit programme in association 
with “Waste Watch”, an environmental 
charity with over 20 years of experience. 
Waste Watch works with o2o to identify 
clear and realistic recommendations to 
improve waste management; 
our Green OPTIMISA™ system. 
This measures the environmental impact 
of a customer’s office products contract 
including delivery vehicles (fuel, CO
2
 
emissions), paper (dispatch notes, pick 
lists, driver manifests, labels, etc) and 
packaging. Opportunities to reduce a 
customer’s carbon footprint are identified 
and we work to make them happen; 
l
l
the Globe & Tick™ range of sustainable 
and environmentally friendly products. 
This is important to help customers meet 
their own green targets; and
recycling initiatives, such as waste 
paper, electronic equipment and printer 
cartridges. The partnership with Shred 
Easy (detailed below) demonstrates the 
Group’s commitment in this area and we 
intend to extend this range of services.
Delivering managed services 
In common with the rest of the industry, 
this has been a challenging year for BBS. 
Input cost prices have risen more quickly 
than we have seen for many years. Despite 
this, we have demonstrated resilience as 
contracts have been added and retained 
on re-tender without any significant losses. 
Looking forward
We have re-branded the business 
“Banner Business Services” to more closely 
reflect its market position. The strategy 
is now to build on the opportunities 
presented by managed procurement 
customers who trust the “Banner” brand 
and need complementary business critical 
services activities. 
l
l
Banner’s tele-account management 
teams are working with customers to 
help them select the best products for 
their requirements. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 7
Managed Procurement | Mid market sector
The acquisition of Accord in 
June 2008 has enabled the 
integration of our existing 
mid market activities with it 
to create a single mid market 
managed procurement trading 
brand “Accord”. The acquisition 
broadened our customer 
base in the mid market sector 
with immediate savings and 
improved margins from product 
range consolidation, the 
Group’s purchasing power and 
integrated supply chain.
The acquisition of the Accord business 
provided us with an established and 
respected distributor of office products 
to an excellent customer base. It has a 
strong track record of sustained growth 
and real enthusiasm for realising the 
additional opportunities o2o provides 
through improved purchasing and the 
utilisation of the Group’s supply chain. 
Under a single sales management 
team, the Accord trading brand was 
launched and rolled out to customers in 
mid November. It has already delivered 
efficiencies without impacting on our 
ability to deliver a high quality service, a 
key differentiator in this part of the market.
Looking forward
The mid market represents a growth 
opportunity for the Group. The 
purchasing power, national distribution 
and environmental programmes of 
o2o, combined with Accord’s flexible 
approach, create a winning formula.
Organic growth will be achieved through 
proactively developing our existing 
accounts and attracting new customers 
with the Group’s broader portfolio of 
business products and services.
Accord operates in a fragmented industry 
segment, which is presenting good 
opportunities for consolidation. It has 
a proven track record for making and 
successfully integrating small bolt-on 
acquisitions. Although the Group has 
no immediate plans for further material 
acquisitions the Accord team are able to 
respond to relevant opportunities should 
they arise.
Accord’s end-to-end procurement, 
warehouse, pick & pack and direct 
distribution create a winning formula. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 8
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Business Critical Services | Business communication
AccessPlus, which was acquired 
in May 2008, is the core of our 
new business critical services 
activity and provides innovative 
business communication and 
print management solutions to 
organisations seeking to reduce 
costs and streamline this element 
of business process outsourcing 
(BPO). Through an extensive 
range of integrated services, it 
delivers ongoing, sustainable 
cost savings right through the 
printed document and marketing 
communications supply chain.
Five core areas of operation cover every 
stage of the communications process:
data solutions; 
document management;
logistics;
campaign delivery; and 
print management.
Since acquiring AccessPlus we have 
integrated o2o’s existing print related 
operations with it and restructured the 
l
l
l
l
l
management team with a focus on 
accountability, growth and efficiency. 
Synergies have included the utilisation 
of the Group’s warehouse infrastructure 
following the closure of the AccessPlus 
warehouses in Leeds and Southampton and 
the transfer of a number of duplicated back 
office functions, notably finance, payroll and 
HR, into the o2o head office. BPO accounts 
for over two thirds of the AccessPlus 
turnover and continues to be a profitable 
and growing sector. AccessPlus has been 
successful in securing and expanding 
relationships with key customers and has 
also achieved some significant business 
wins from new customers. The following 
initiatives have been instrumental to this:
the AccessPlus Skills Academy, where 
our people are trained to provide 
significant added value to our 
customers by adopting a consultative 
account management style and seeking 
to understand and develop the right 
solution for customers’ needs; and
a Customer Service Charter to 
promote AccessPlus’ desire to be 
the best in the industry.
l
l
Looking forward
AccessPlus is a leading brand in the BPO 
and print management arena. Being a 
part of o2o provides more opportunities 
to attract large public and private sector 
accounts and, at the same time, has 
lowered purchasing costs by using 
the Group’s purchasing power in print 
products and paper. 
Customers generally and the public 
sector in particular, are being driven by 
sustainability and environmental directives. 
By stripping out waste and consolidating 
processes, we can help customers achieve 
major cost savings whilst simultaneously 
enhancing their ‘green’ credentials. This 
represents a great opportunity for o2o and 
we ensure that the sales teams elsewhere 
in the Group are fully aware of the benefits 
of AccessPlus’ solutions to their customers. 
AccessPlus’ business communication 
and print management solutions reduce 
costs and streamline business process 
outsourcing (BPO). o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008 9
Business Critical Services | Secure document destruction
Our newly formed partnership, 
BDS, is the Group’s trading 
brand in the secure document 
destruction market, a growing 
and profitable business services 
market sector. o2o owns 60% of 
the issued share capital of BDS 
with the remainder held by 
Shred Easy, a well established 
private company operating 
in the sector. Under the 
agreement with Shred Easy, 
o2o has the option to acquire 
both Shred Easy and the 
remaining shares of BDS.
BDS, which was incorporated in 
December 2008 and commenced 
trading in January 2009, utilises the 
o2o network across the UK and Ireland 
coupled with the existing plant facilities 
and infrastructure of Shred Easy. Using 
mobile shredding units to ensure both 
control and convenience it collects and 
securely shreds confidential documents 
on customer’s premises. 
In conjunction with Shred Easy, we have 
a fleet of “Urban Shredders”, which are 
amongst the most advanced mobile 
shredding vehicles in the UK. They are 
small, light and quiet in use and are 
designed to deliver cost efficiency, 
reduced CO
2
 emissions and other 
environmental benefits relative to the 
competition. The blend of expertise, 
resource and commercial opportunity 
that each party brings to this new venture 
provides the ingredients necessary for a 
successful business.
Our entry into this market in 2009, 
through BDS, presents a significant 
organic growth opportunity for the 
Group. There is an increasing demand 
from the o2o customer base for secure, 
on-site document destruction, driven 
by new legislation. Despite the current 
economic conditions, this is a fast 
growing and profitable sector.
Banner Document Services’ mobile shredding 
vehicles collect and securely shred confidential 
documents on customer’s premises. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008  0
Chief Executive’s Review continued
| The o2o integrated supply chain
The Group’s integrated 
supply chain consolidates 
and leverages the Group’s 
warehousing, distribution and 
purchasing activities to procure, 
pick and pack and nationally 
distribute over 15,000 office and 
other business products.
BBS, Accord and AccessPlus utilise the 
o2o integrated supply chain. It offers 
them supply chain management 
stretching from procurement, 
warehousing, pick and pack of products 
and national next day delivery. 
During 2008 we have made our service 
more efficient by introducing:
digital pen technology which allows 
our customer service and transport 
departments to follow the progress of 
goods in-transit and view an electronic 
copy of the delivery document within 
seconds of the customer signing it; and
sophisticated vehicle route planning 
technology that allows our routes to 
be planned in a flexible, cost effective 
and environmentally friendly manner. 
Based on the success of pilot schemes, 
customers will enjoy a more efficient 
service and, alongside considerable cost 
savings, o2o will significantly reduce 
its carbon footprint by down sizing 
the fleet and reducing the number of 
vehicle-miles travelled.
l
l
Looking forward
Our priorities for 2009 include the 
complete national rollout of the above 
initiatives, further improvements to 
customer service and the reduction of our 
carbon footprint by seeking more effective 
operational methods. Our aim is to shape 
our fleet into one of the most advanced 
and fit for purpose fleets in the industry 
to achieve the best in class supply chain 
e-commerce and business processes.
o2o’s sophisticated vehicle route 
planning technology allows routes to be 
planned in a flexible, cost effective and 
environmentally friendly manner. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2008  Management and employees 
Management
As described above, our new structure 
creates four trading brands: Banner 
Business Services and Accord (managed 
procurement); and AccessPlus and Banner 
Document Services (business critical 
services). Each brand is supported by the 
o2o integrated supply chain.
The manager responsible for each 
brand, the supply chain and the Group 
human resource join Mark Cunningham 
and myself to form the Operations 
Executive team. We are charged with 
the responsibility for the day to day 
management of the Group. This is a strong 
team with clearly defined responsibilities 
to deliver both our operational and 
strategic objectives.
Employees
We recognise that the continued success 
of o2o is a reflection of the success of 
our people and I would like to thank 
management and employees for their 
contribution and continued commitment.
We aim to recruit and retain the best 
people in our business sectors. o2o 
people have a broad range of talents 
and backgrounds. Customers rely on the 
combined efforts of over 900 people to 
manage relationships and to deliver the 
right products and services when and 
where they are needed. 
Future prospects 
During 2009, our strategic objective is to 
improve on our position as a managed 
services business, by leveraging our 
newly acquired business process 
outsourcing capability and document 
destruction services into our existing 
and diverse range of customers.
We are focused on organic growth 
opportunities, the complete integration 
of our recent acquisitions and improving 
both the efficiency and the cash 
generation of the o2o Group.
S R Moate 
Chief Executive
25 February 2009
