 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2012 6
Managed Procurement – revenue £147.7m
(2011: £127.8m); adjusted EBITA £11.2m
(2011: £13.0m). See note 3 to the financial statements.
Banner Business Services 
Weak market demand, despite the benefit of GOSC, resulted
in BBS revenue slipping to £121.1m (2011: £126.6m).  The
global office products industry has been directly affected by
the recession and customer austerity measures have brought
about tighter budgets, changes in the workplace and a
generally increased awareness of costs. In the UK, this was
exacerbated during the year by the greater than anticipated
impact of a UK workforce working abnormally during the
Jubilee and Olympic celebrations. In London alone, for a 5
week period, BBS sales volumes were down by some 28%, as
a result of fewer people in the office workplace. 
Softer revenue volumes together with a shift from higher margin
non-core sales to lower margin core sales prompted early action
by BBS to protect gross margin.  This action was successful and
gross margins were broadly held at 28.5% (2011: 28.8%).
T o mitigate the impact of the continuing decline in the
contracted office products market, our strategy is to
continue to gain market share. Securing a multi-million pound
sole-supply contract with RBS based on our open book pricing
model, was a significant boost. The contract is ex-works and is
serviced from the Group’s existing capabilities. BBS’s
A great deal of progress has been made during the year, having delivered a robust revenue
performance, notwithstanding our reporting a reduction in underlying profit.
In the first half we implemented two significant but very different Managed Procurement
contracts. Operational issues were experienced and were swiftly addressed, although not
without additional costs being incurred as reported previously.  By the end of May the
situation was fully resolved. 
In the last quarter, BBS’s success in winning a prestigious contract with RBS was a particular
highlight. A dramatic drop in BBS sales volumes just before and over the Christmas period,
however, was exacerbated by an inability to complete scheduled deliveries because of early
customer business closures. Whilst we have good prospects elsewhere in the business, the
proximity to year end impeded any opportunity to mitigate the adverse impact of this unusual
trading period.
significant experience of serving financial institutions paved
the way for a smooth implementation of the RBS contract
which went live on 1 February 2013 and is currently trading in
line with expectations.
What has become apparent is that forecasting BBS sales per
working day is no longer a reliable exercise. Changes in the
workplace and tighter budgetary controls resulted in a higher
number of low value orders during the year, leading to more
volatile and unpredictable order input patterns.  We are
working to try and ensure that our customers, in their own
interests and ours, reduce the frequency of deliveries by
consolidating their requirements.
Truline 
After its start up in 2011, T ruline secured a four year contract
to provide supply chain services to the Advantia dealership
network with effect from 1 January 2012. The launch of this
contract, which was effectively the simultaneous
implementation of 44 individual contracts, was not without
issues. Limited customer information initially led to our holding
the wrong stock and stock being held at the wrong locations,
both of which resulted in additional operational activity to get
the right goods to the right place at the right time. As individual
dealers had closed warehouses and transferred drivers from
day one, it was critical that service levels were maintained and
significant additional temporary resource was employed in the
early phase of the contract, resulting in one-off implementation
Chief Executive’s Review  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2012 7
costs of £1.9m being incurred. The situation was stabilised by
the end of May and has since been operating to plan. 
T ruline’s sales revenues were within expectations at £26.6m
(2011: £1.2m) and accounted for almost a fifth of Managed
Procurement’s revenue. Initial gross margins were disappointing
but recovered in the second half of the year, after the contracted
quarterly review of product sales prices and cost recharges, to
an overall gross margin for the year of 15.1% (2011: 7.4%).
With the Advantia contract settled, T ruline was able to focus on
an earlier decision to close a non-core transport activity owing to
its poor financial performance. This activity had been subsumed
by T ruline and its closure during the second half of the year
resulted in non-recurring costs of £0.7m.
Truline’s business model is scalable and sustainable and
provides a solid base for our further expansion into the SME
market without further capital investment. Interest from the
industry is high and we are selecting new dealers who will fit
with the Truline model.
Business Critical Services – revenue £79.6m
(2011: £65.7m); adjusted EBITA £7.0m (2011:
£7.0m). See note 3 to the financial statements.
Banner Managed Communication 
Established following the acquisition of AccessPlus in 2008
and by the acquisition and integration of TPF in 2010, BMC is
now a key player in the growing Business Process Outsourcing
(BPO) market. It delivered strong revenue growth with a 19%
increase to £75.8m (2011: £63.5m) and now accounts for
one third of the Group’s total revenue.
Building on this growth, 2013 will benefit from a full year’s
trading from a further three significant contracts secured
during 2012, together worth £18m per annum. Best Buy
Europe (Carphone Warehouse), Friends Life and Hastings
Direct came on stream towards the end of 2012 and, as
usual, implementation costs temporarily suppressed in-
year contribution.
BMC predominantly serves private sector customers in the UK
and internationally . Recognition of our success in this came in
July 2012, when BMC was included on 3 specialist lists of
‘International Association of Outsourcing Professionals’ (IAOP)
annual ranking of the ‘World’s Best Outsourcing Providers’ .
We believe that BMC provides us with a number of exciting
opportunities for future growth.
Banner Document Services 
Banner Document Services (BDS) is our secure document
destruction service operating Closed Loop™, a fully auditable
recycling solution for customers. Closed Loop™ was a key
factor in securing GOSC and, although initial progress has
been slower as Central Government departments unravel
existing document destruction services from their incumbent
arrangements, it is now growing steadily. Revenue increased
by 72% in the year to £3.8m (2011: £2.2m).
We seek to extract additional value from our Closed Loop™
intellectual property and have very recently concluded a
Licencing arrangement with our sub-contractor for operations
in Northern Ireland.
2013 operating objectives
Economic uncertainties remain and maintaining a highly
efficient operating platform is essential for stability and
future growth.
While we look to maximise market opportunities, we continue
to drive internal efficiencies to ensure we stay in the best
possible operational shape.
The marked change in buying patterns towards a ‘little and
often’ approach is clear. For the 20% increase in despatched
sales in 2012, 35% more lines were picked and over 50%
more deliveries were made. We are working harder to achieve
proportionately less return. Despite record productivity
levels, we constantly monitor activity and improve operational
KPI reporting to highlight issues as they arise. 
Current focus is on improvements to our back office functions
to identify unnecessary processes and to implement new
cost-effective methods.  Ultimately, we aim to transform the
way our back office supports our revenue generating
activities.
S R Moate
Chief Executive
25 March 2013
Simon Moate
