 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2012 2
In 2012, we grew Group revenue by 17% to £227.3m (2011: £193.5m). At the same time:
• within Managed Procurement, Banner Business Services (BBS) secured market share
and out-performed contracted office products market competitors while broadly
maintaining gross profit margins; 
• we fully implemented the Government Office Supplies Contract (GOSC) thereby
expanding the number of Government departments that BBS serves; 
• we developed a new supply relationship with an office products wholesale chain; and 
• we continued to grow Business Critical Services.  
Unfortunately, these positive steps did not prevent underlying profit falling to £6.5m
(2011: £8.4m). The principal causes of the profit reduction were confined to Managed
Procurement: 
• reduced trading across the contracted office products industry impacted the Company
as well as our competitors. In BBS, our relatively higher margin contracted office
products business, revenue fell to £121.1m (2011: £126.6m) and was disappointing
throughout most of the second half of the year particularly during the Jubilee
celebrations, the Olympic and Paralympic games and in the latter part of December,
when demand fell away earlier and more markedly than we have seen before; and
• an increase in distribution cost in line with increased revenue following implementation
of the Advantia contract and a consistent change in customer demand patterns to more
frequent but lower value deliveries.
There were insufficient opportunities to compensate for these issues within the year from
activity elsewhere in the Group. 
Profit before tax fell to £0.7m (2011: £4.3m) after non-recurring costs of £4.0m (2011:
£2.4m) as detailed in the Business and Financial Review and note 5 of the financial
statements.
In spite of the lower profits, net debt was held broadly in line with the previous year at
£29.0m (2011: £27.7m).
Chairman’s Statement   o2o plc Report and Accounts 2012 3
The growth in revenue was driven by:
● Managed Procurement, where revenue grew by £19.9m to
£147.7m (2011: £127.8m), reflecting the launch of the
relatively lower margin Truline business with revenue of
£26.6m (2011: £1.2m); and
● Business Critical Services, where revenue grew by £13.9m to
£79.6m (2011: £65.7m). While adversely impacted to some
extent by the summer celebrations, the full year benefit of
contracts won in 2011 came on top of some contribution
from new contracts secured with Best Buy Europe (Carphone
Warehouse), Friends Life and Hastings Direct during 2012
with expected full year revenues totalling £18m. 
T owards the end of 2012, we won a three year sole-supply
contract with The Royal Bank of Scotland Group (RBS) which
is being served from our existing capabilities with only
marginal working capital investment. This contract has been
fully implemented and has been trading in line with
expectations since commencement on 1 February 2013.
T rading across the Group in the first quarter of 2013 has been
in line with management expectation. BBS sales rates have
recovered although it is too early to say whether this is a trend
or as a result of re-stocking after the second half of last year. In
all other parts of the Group, activity is in line with our plans. 
Business strategy
Background
Our long term goal is to build a business which is resilient to
economic uncertainties and changes in workplace practices.
In 2007, we recognised the likely long term decline in the
contracted office products market and have since followed a
diversification strategy and business change programme to
lessen our reliance on office product supply contracts by: 
● acquiring and developing complementary services and
activities; 
● expanding product ranges; and 
● widening our customer base by extending into new market
areas. 
Since the start of 2007, we have invested c£55m in
business acquisition and start-up through business
purchase, non-recurring charges to the profit & loss account
and working capital growth. To do this we have relied only on
operational cash flow and broadly consistent net debt
levels. A further £4m has been allocated to capital
expenditure and £7m has been spent restructuring the
existing business to improve business efficiency by
reducing the underlying cost base in response to changes in
economic conditions.
Managed Procurement
The principal business in the Managed Procurement segment is
BBS, our relatively higher margin contracted office products
business. Our strategy has been to combat decline in the market
by retaining our existing customers through excellent service
and winning new business at the expense of competitors, while,
at the same time, protecting margin. A major achievement was
to be appointed, under commercially viable terms, to GOSC, as
sole provider of office products and Closed Loop™ services to
the UK Central Government. This followed our withdrawal from
the uneconomic supply to the MoD in 2007. 
Using the existing Managed Procurement infrastructure,
we established Truline in 2011 to allow us to grow in the
SME office products market by providing a comprehensive
office products supply service to an established
independent office products dealer group. This supply
chain service has Group operations as key customers and is
a growing contributor to Group revenue. In 2012, Truline’s
third party sales at £26.6m (2011: £1.2m) accounted for
18% of Managed Procurement’s revenue.
Business Critical Services
The Business Critical Services segment was formed in 2008
and comprises activities which complement our office
products business. In 2012, it accounted for 35% of Group
revenues and 38% of adjusted EBITA (see note 3). The two
component activities are:
● Banner Managed Communication (BMC) providing
document and print management. This is the principal
business and, in addition to opportunities in its traditional
market, it has the potential to expand into a number of
complementary services as customers embrace e-
documents and digital media generally; and
David Callear   o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 4
overall gross margin percentage fell to 26.2% (2011: 28.8%)
largely owing to the anticipated lower margin sales from the
Truline business. 
Underlying profit before tax fell to £6.5m (2011: £8.4m) and
underlying earnings per share were 13.4 p (2011: 20.7p)
owing to the increase in non-recurring items and finance costs.
Profit before tax was £0.7m (2011: £4.3m) and profit after
tax was £0.3m (2011: £4.3m following a small tax credit).
Basic and fully diluted earnings per share were the same at
0.9p (2011: 12.0p). 
Cash generated from operations and net debt
Cash generated from operations reduced to £6.5m (2011:
£10.9m) reflecting reduced profitability and higher finance
costs following higher average levels of borrowing due to
implementation costs and net working capital investment to
support the start up of the Truline activity, compounded by
increased borrowing costs after renegotiation of facilities in
2011. Net indebtedness increased to £29.0m (2011:
£27.7m) and has been generally higher throughout the year.
During the year, the Group’s banking facilities were increased
to £50.5m. These mature in June 2015 after staged
repayments and are based on competitive terms, interest
rates and arrangement fees. 
Dividend
The Board believes that the payment of dividends should be
closely linked to affordability and the Group’s trading
prospects. While we remain confident about the Group’s
trading prospects, albeit in a challenging market, we have
decided to recommend a reduced final dividend payment to
reflect the current lack of earnings cover. We are also
reviewing our forward dividend policy in order to ensure that
we strike the best balance between promoting shareholders’
short and long term interests.
We recommend a final dividend of 3.6p per share (2011:
7.8p). When combined with the interim dividend paid on 9
November 2012, this makes a total dividend per share of
7.2p (2011: 11.4p) and amounts to a total distribution of
Chairman’s Statement  
(continued)
● Banner Document Services (BDS) providing waste
document management. This includes our innovative and
patented Closed Loop™ service and is growing steadily
as GOSC and other Central Government contracts are
able to transfer from their existing facilities
management arrangements. 
Group customer base
The shift in our trading emphasis has resulted in a shift in
the Group’s customer base, historically dominated by
Government departments. By the end of 2012, 68% (2011:
63%) of Group revenue was accounted for by private sector
corporate customers.
Business review
In summary , this broad diversification strategy and the
consequent business development have, over the last 5 years,
transformed o2o from a contract stationer to a leading
provider of office supplies and business solutions. Furthermore
we have accomplished this whilst achieving  robust gross
margins and delivering a quality service to our customers.
During the year, the Board, with its advisors, undertook a
detailed review of the business. This review concluded that
whilst the UK office products market is performing badly with
many participants weakened, o2o’s business is relatively robust
in a pressured environment. Over time some industry
consolidation seems likely and whilst the Directors will continue
to monitor opportunities, the currently depressed market will
influence when and how any such opportunities arise.
The market in which BMC operates, meanwhile, is relatively
buoyant and a variety of opportunities exist to grow
organically and through acquisition.
Trading performance
The 2012 trading performance of the business segments and
our shorter term strategy for the coming year, are discussed
in more detail in the Chief Executive’s Review.  
Results
Revenue increased by 17% to £227.3m (2011: £193.5m).
Whilst gross profit increased to £59.6m (2011: £55.6m), the o2o plc Report and Accounts 2012 5
Running Head for the year ended 31 December 2008
£2.6m (2011: £4.1m). The total dividend paid and payable for
the year is not covered by earnings (2011: 1.1 times) but is
covered by underlying earnings 2.5 times (2011: 2.0 times).
If approved at the annual general meeting (AGM), the final
dividend will be paid on 11 July 2013 to shareholders on the
register at the close of business on 17 May 2013.
Employees
Our employees have continued to work hard during another
challenging year. I would like to thank our staff for keeping the
momentum going and their commitment to the Group.
Board changes
We recently announced the appointment of Hugh Cawley as
Group Finance Director with effect from 25 February 2013.
Hugh has held a number of senior executive and financial roles
where he has consistently played a key part in driving
performance and strategic change.
Mark Cunningham resigned from the Board on 30 January
2013 and on behalf of the Board I thank Mark for his
contribution to the Company and wish him well for the future. 
Outlook
Trading across the Group in the first quarter of 2013 has
been in line with management expectation. BBS sales rates
have recovered and in all other parts of the Group, activity is
in line with plan. 
Whilst early trading in BBS has been encouraging it is too
early to say whether this is a trend or as a result of re-
stocking after the second half of last year. We do not
conclude that the contracted office products market has
recovered. Volume decline and the change in buying patterns
have been apparent over recent years and, whilst our success
to date in securing new contracts and maintaining margins
helps to mitigate these effects, the market decline seems
likely to continue.
However, we believe there remain strong prospects in our
business:
● the new RBS contract came on stream in February and has
been implemented without disruption or additional cost; 
● our more recent Truline business is now established in
the SME sector and is attracting interest from other
dealers; and
● the Business Critical Services segment continues to grow
and provides us with opportunities to expand in a number
of directions within the historic as well as the emerging
digital communications markets. 
Consequently, we are pleased that against the background of
currently unfavourable contracted office products market
conditions, o2o remains in a relatively strong position to
exploit opportunities as they arise.
Publication of half yearly financial reports
With effect from this year and in accordance with DTR 4.2.2,
we will publish our half yearly financial reports on our website
following disclosure via a regulated news service (RNS). Hard
copies will be posted to shareholders only on request. 
AGM
The AGM will be held at the Company’s head office, St
Crispins, Duke Street, Norwich on 22 May 2013 at 9.30 a.m.
Notice of the AGM is included within the annual report and
financial statements and will be circulated, together with the
proxy forms, for use at the AGM. 
D J Callear 
Chairman
25 March 2013
