 Chief Executive’s Review  
Simon Moate
o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 5
For much of 2011, Group revenue suffered from below-
expectation public sector sales volumes, down 13%
compared with last year coupled with margin erosion in
Managed Procurement principally due to a change in the
product mix to more basic products. The impact of Whitehall’s
austerity measures has affected our entire industry but, by
winning GOSC, we believe we have mitigated the impact of
any future volume shortfall and margin dilution. 
Managed Procurement – revenue £131.0m
(2010: £145.7m); adjusted EBITA £13.5m
(2010: £16.4m). See note 3 to the financial statements.
Our Managed Procurement activity competes in the office
product market which has progressively suffered from
product commoditisation. Our response to this has been both
to broaden our product range beyond office products and to
introduce an open book pricing model which allows our
customers to benefit from our purchasing scale, low cost
supply chain and systems while, at the same time, reducing
our exposure to product cost fluctuations. This has enabled
the business to focus on longer term strategic relationships
with customers, supported by a competitive pricing model
which delivers sustainable margins for o2o. 
Overall, private sector trading performance, typically with
large organisations and subject to long term contracts, was in
line with our expectations. 
Public sector sales volumes fell during the year but stabilised
in Q4 and, together with a less favourable product mix as
expenditure on non-core items reduced, have negatively
impacted trading results in 2011. GOSC deliveries started
During 2011, the Group has both won and retained record levels of long term contract business.
The most significant business wins were GOSC and the Advantia contract, which, together,
demonstrate our ability to secure significant opportunities in line with our strategy in both the
public and private sectors. We are confident that our success has come from delivering a low
cost supply chain on sustainable terms; ensuring selling price transparency for the customer;
and margin protection for o2o using our open book pricing model.
late in the year, initially at lower rates than had been planned
and therefore did not have a significant impact on the 2011
results.
The GOSC contract is now being implemented across all
relevant Government departments. As well as providing an
additional £25m annual revenue over its three and,
potentially, four year term, the scope of GOSC allows us to
cross sell with other “arms length” Government bodies and
agencies. 
Our strategic move to enter and grow sales to the SME sector
became a reality in May 2011 with the signing of the four
year exclusive contract to use our start-up Truline business to
provide supply chain services to the Advantia dealership
network. Subsequently, we have integrated with the Advantia
IT systems, completed employee transfers where required,
liaised with each of the dealerships and modified our product
range and catalogue to meet the demands of the dealers and
their customers.  We began trading in January with over 40
members of the dealer group already signed up to use our
services.
Business Critical Services – revenue £62.5m
(2010: £62.0m); adjusted EBITA £6.6m (2010:
£5.4m). See note 3 to the financial statements.
BMC is our key activity in this business segment which has
been built by acquisition. It operates in the large and growing
BPO market providing document outsourcing services such as
logistics, print management, data solutions, digital marketing,
creative design, and campaign management usually under
long term contract to a wide variety of blue chip customers o2o plc Report and Accounts 2011 6
Chief Executive’s Review  
(continued)
ranging from pet care providers to political parties.  We
typically achieve an average saving of 20% for BMC clients
by bringing specialist skills and a more streamlined supply
chain to a business activity that is absolutely crucial for them. 
BMC has maintained a solid performance throughout 2011
and achieved growth over the prior year at a time when we
would have anticipated some stress in volumes. Gross margins
have increased through effective product cost control instilled
post-acquisition. This has been achieved by rationalising the
number of suppliers and negotiating improved terms. T wo
significant accounts, T alk T alk and Ladbrokes, were recently
renewed, both on sustainable margins. In addition, BMC
secured a number of new business wins during 2011 including
Hastings Direct Insurance for a five year period. V alued at
£1.5m per annum, this contract will utilise available capacity
through our existing digital print operation.
BMC is an increasingly important and growing activity. It
continues to perform in line with our expectations and is now
a key part of the Group. 
BDS, with its Closed Loop initiative, is our other activity in
this segment. Closed Loop securely destroys confidential
documents and recycles them through the Closed Loop
patented process into a unique copier paper product.  As well
as providing copier paper, this initiative also helps our
customers, including the Government and a variety of banks,
to meet their recycling targets.  
We believe that Closed Loop was a key part in securing GOSC
as, based on Ministerial comment, it represents for many in
Government a clear example of business delivering a
sustainable and commercially viable environmental solution.
There is no doubt that awareness of Closed Loop has
increased substantially following our success in securing
GOSC. 
2012 operating objectives 
Our aim for 2012 is to: 
● establish the Truline business through the recently won
Advantia contract and deliver on this important
opportunity for growth;
● implement deliveries to all Government departments and
arms-length bodies covered by GOSC and to win supply to
those departments which are not specifically named; and 
● continue to organically expand the BMC product and
service ranges.
T o date, this is going to plan. We are also working on the
additional opportunities for revenue that both GOSC and the
Advantia contract have to offer, including the potential for the
Closed Loop initiative. 
Our focus is to provide our customers with sustainable cost
saving solutions which provide long term profitability for o2o.
Our Managed Procurement and Business Critical Services
activities are geared to deliver these. The success we have
had with recent contract awards is testament that our
remodelled proposition is not only delivering value to our
customers but will deliver growth for o2o in the coming year.
S R Moate
Chief Executive
29 February 2012
Chief Executive’s Review  
(continued)
