 o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 4
Chief Executive’s Review
Simon Moate Chief Executive
In common with many businesses, o2o was impacted by the
severe economic downturn in 2009. We responded by right-
sizing our business to deliver the lowest cost to serve ratio in
the Group’s history and to secure a number of important
contracts. As a result, we have improved the Group’s underlying
profitability year-on-year. In 2010, we are focused on achieving
profitable growth by cross-selling our business services
portfolio to our existing clients. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 5
o2o Group | Managed procurement & business critical services
Executive summary
We began 2009 with the challenge of
renewing longstanding contractual
relationships with both NHS Supply
Chain and Barclays. These contracts
represent a material proportion of the
Group’s revenues and both were
renewed successfully albeit, as
anticipated, at reduced margins. 
Soon afterwards, Banner Business
Services (BBS) won a contract with the
Ministry of Justice from a key
competitor. This prestigious new
account demonstrated the
competitiveness of our proposition in
the public sector and a number of other
new contracts were secured during the
course of the year. 
Despite these successes, o2o was not
immune to the effects of the downturn,
although all areas of the business made
a positive contribution to Group
profitability . The unprecedented
product cost inflation that we
experienced in 2008 continued, driven
by a combination of manufacturer
pricing policies and adverse exchange
rates. In particular, substantial cost
increases were incurred in proprietary
branded printer consumables, which
represent a significant proportion of the
BBS and Accord Office Supplies
(Accord) businesses.
The economic conditions prompted
many customers to focus their
purchasing on lower priced, “contract”
products, which contributed to the
reduction in our overall gross margin to
30.7% (2008: 31.4%). Customers’
discretionary marketing expenditure
declined substantially which resulted in
a corresponding fall in the AccessPlus
non-contracted print volumes, although
this impact has, in part, been mitigated
by growth in its contracted business
process outsourcing service.  
Finally, underlying volumes inevitably
suffered as the recession continued into
the second half of 2009. Whilst BBS
held up well, the impact on Accord,
which is focused on the mid market and
SME sectors, was significant.
Managing the impacts of this difficult
commercial environment was a key
focus across the Group.
Firm foundations
In last year’s review, I explained how the
Group had been restructured following
our strategic decision to withdraw from
the Ministry of Defence office supplies
contract in 2007. That decision resulted
in a material loss of revenue but was the
catalyst for change within our business.
For o2o, it meant that the recession and
the work needed to offset its impact
effectively started a year early.
Since that time, the Group has been
transformed and we are now business
services focused and well placed to
exploit the opportunities that will
emerge as economic conditions
improve. Under the four brands: BBS,
Accord, AccessPlus and Banner
Document Services (BDS), we offer
managed procurement and business
critical services.
Managed procurement
Managed procurement helps our
customers to reduce their expenditure
on office and business products,
ethically and sustainably. BBS is a
market leader in the larger corporate
and public sectors, while Accord is one
of the largest dealers in the UK mid
market sector.
Business critical services –
communications and document
destruction services
AccessPlus provides communication
services through creative design, print
management, fulfilment and response
handling services, enabling customers
to outsource these requirements from a
single provider and thereby reduce
costs. BDS provides its customers with
both on-site and off-site document
destruction services, meeting a growing
requirement to ensure that the disposal
of obsolete documents and materials is
achieved securely and responsibly,
whilst ensuring that as much of the
waste material as possible is recycled.
We are encouraged by our success in
cross-selling these services into the
Group’s client base. Building on this
opportunity lies at the heart of our
strategy for 2010 and beyond. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 6
BBS is a market leader in the large
contract supply of business
products and services. BBS
delivers value by helping its
customers manage their
procurement effectively and
thereby reduce their expenditure,
whilst ensuring the highest
standards of business ethics and
environmental sustainability.
BBS enjoyed an excellent start to 2009,
retaining significant contracts with NHS
Supply Chain and Barclays. Subsequently ,
the Ministry of Justice contract was
secured, which delivered an important
new business win in the year. Other new
business contracts followed and no
material existing contracts were lost. 
“Banner” is strong in the corporate and
public sectors, where the name enjoys
considerable recognition and trust.
Leveraging this will play a key role in
the Group’s strategy to cross-sell its
portfolio of business services in 2010.
BDS demonstrates the potential of
this approach.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Managed Procurement | BBS
To date, BBS has weathered the
recession well, albeit volumes in the
private sector did soften during the
second half of 2009. Product cost
inflation continued to impact the
business but this has been largely
mitigated by working closely with
customers to minimise its impact.
A key issue has been the trend towards
lower cost contracted products at the
expense of more profitable non-
contracted items. BBS has responded to
this by promoting the introduction of
“open book” contracts, transparent
commercial mechanisms that are
designed to benefit both customer and
supplier in delivering savings.  
Social and environmental issues are
increasingly important to BBS’s
corporate and public sector customers.
The Group offers over 1,000
environmentally preferred products
under the Globe & Tick™ brand and
publishes a “Green Guide” of sustainable
products and services. It also provides
customers with the Green OPTIMISA™
system to measure the environmental
impacts of their purchases.
Shortly after the year end, we
announced that BBS had been
successful in its bid to secure a place
on the new Pan-Government
Collaborative Framework. This
framework provides public sector
customers with a supply route for a
wide range of products and services
including secure shredding services, as
sold by BDS.  It presents us with a
compliant mechanism to defend our
existing contractual relationships
within the public sector whilst
presenting an important route to
consolidate and grow our share of 
this market.
To better capitalise on these and other
sales opportunities, BBS changed its
sales territories in the final quarter of
2009 to improve sales team
productivity and develop closer
relationships with customers at a local
level. We are already beginning to see
the benefits of this.  o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 7
Accord is our mid market sector
managed procurement brand. It is
one of the largest dealers in the
UK and provides customers with a
wide range of office and business
products, excellent service and
strong local support.   
Managed Procurement | Accord
The strength of Accord’s proposition
lies in its excellent service, local sales
representation and competitive prices.
Since acquisition in 2008, Accord has
enjoyed the benefits of the Group’s
purchasing power. However, customers
have continued to seek competitive
pricing and there has been an
increasing trend towards competitive
tendering. In addition, underlying
volumes were impacted by the
recession, although these stabilised
later in the year and have since shown
some signs of recovery.
Like BBS, Accord also suffered from
increases in product costs driven by
inflation and weakness in sterling but
has been largely successful in mitigating
these impacts. The business is now fully
integrated into the Group’s logistics,
purchasing and back office functions.
Recently , the difficult economic
conditions have resulted in a number of
independent office products dealers
facing financial difficulties.  On 1 February
2010, the trade and assets of the
Newbury branch of office supplies dealer,
Martin Luck Limited, were acquired by the
Group and have since been integrated
with Accord. All further opportunities will
be considered on their merits.
Whilst trading conditions in 2010
remain uncertain, Accord is well
positioned to take advantage of any
economic recovery.   o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 8
AccessPlus specialises in the
provision of business
communication services. Its
proposition spans the process
from creative design to
fulfilment and response handling,
enabling customers to outsource
any or all of these services to a
trusted provider.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Business Critical Services | AccessPlus
AccessPlus offers a complete solution
for creative design, data solutions,
logistics, campaign delivery and print
management services. It has suffered
from the impact of the economic
downturn more than any other part of
the o2o Group. A large proportion of
its business is based on discretionary
marketing spend, where demand
reduced throughout the ensuing
downturn. In total, non-contracted
print volumes fell substantially year-
on-year. This has been partly offset by
an encouraging growth in sales of
contracted BPO services.
To mitigate the reduction in volume,
AccessPlus has been reorganised to
deliver maximum synergies with the
Group’s back office and operational
functions. In addition, selling these
services into BBS and Accord
customers is key to its growth and a
number of successes have been
achieved in this respect, despite the
difficult prevailing economic conditions.
Notable examples of new customers
taking advantage of the Group’s
enlarged service offering include the
NHS and G4S. The AccessPlus sales
team has recently been restructured to
provide local, specialist support to the
BBS and Accord businesses.
Since the year end, AccessPlus has
expanded its position in the BPO sector
following the acquisition of the trade and
certain assets relating to the BPO division
of The Print Factory London (1991)
Limited (in administration) and The DSR
Group Limited (in administration) on 17
February 2010. This development, which
broadens our customer base and
increases our market coverage, underpins
our confidence that this business will
deliver increasing value as economic
conditions improve. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 9
BDS is the Group’s brand in the
secure document destruction
market and is a partnership
arrangement with Shred Easy
Limited. o2o owns 60% of the
issued share capital of BDS and
has the option to acquire either
Shred Easy Limited or the minority
interest in the partnership.
Business Critical Services | BDS
BDS began trading in January 2009 and
its performance met all management
expectations in this, its first year. By the
end of the year, BDS was providing a
national service through its UK-wide
infrastructure to many of the Group’s
large public sector customers including
most of the HMRC property estate and,
increasingly , to the Ministry of Justice. In
addition, BDS services many NHS
locations through its secure off-site
service.  BDS has not been greatly
impacted by the recession as its business
is driven largely by legislation and the
threat to customers of security risks.
The business offers customers a variety
of disposal services, with a key focus on
environmental sustainability and
recycling. The core of its business is the
provision of on-site destruction
services, utilising specialist vehicles
that incorporate large shredders. Off-
site destruction services are also
provided to customers for where an on-
site solution is inappropriate.
This is a fast growing and attractive
market. A particular opportunity exists in
the public sector, where awareness of
the importance of secure disposal has
grown following a number of high profile
lapses. The public sector is also
attracted to the comprehensive audit
trail that BDS is able to provide, from
destruction to recycling. 
Critically, the new Pan-Government
Collaborative Framework, on which BBS
has secured a place, includes the
provision of secure disposal services.
Growing its business in this sector will
be a key focus for BDS in 2010. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 10
Delivering our operating
strategy
The Group has responded to business
challenges by right-sizing to fit the
new commercial and economic reality.
We completed our organisational
restructuring based on the four
customer-facing brands referred to
above, supported by a more efficient
centralised operations and back
office function.
The consolidation of our warehousing,
logistics and procurement functions
under Group management was
materially completed by the end of
the third quarter, without disruption
to customer services. The
centralisation of back office services,
including HR, payroll, finance,
payables and management accounts,
has also been completed.
As well as rationalising the
organisation, we have made
appropriate investments to improve
efficiency. A new fleet management
system has improved the efficiency of
our delivery vehicles, whilst new “track
& trace” technology enables us to
As part of the BDS secure paper
collection, destruction and
disposal service, shredded and
declassified materials are taken
to secure facilities where they
are recycled for manufacture into
low grade paper products. Being
one of the largest distributors of
copier paper in the UK, o2o is
taking this service a step further
with its “close the loop” initiative.
Having supplied the customer
with copier paper and, in due
course, collected and securely
shredded the used paper, the
waste material is then sent to
o2o’s specialist mill partner to be
turned into copier paper for
re-sale back to the customer.
Production trials have been
completed and the quality of the
recycled paper has exceeded
expectations. It is intended to roll
out this initiative during 2010.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
| “Close the Loop” initiative
manage the fulfilment process more
effectively. These activities have
enabled us to achieve the lowest
warehouse and distribution cost to
sales ratio in the Group’s history and
has been crucial to maintaining
profitability in 2009.
“Banner”
The recognised value of the “Banner”
office products brand will be employed
more fully in the future. It already enjoys
strong recognition in the contract
market and, in particular, the public
sector where significant trust has been
built on the basis of a long established
trading history. 
The brand opportunity was further
strengthened at the end of 2009,
when it was announced that BBS has
secured a place on the new Pan-
Government Collaborative Framework
for the supply of office products and
services. This framework enables us
to offer public sector bodies a
compliant supply mechanism for both
managed procurement and secure
disposal services. o2o plc Report and Accounts 2009 11
Corporate social responsibility
(CSR) – ‘Good for you, good for
us, good for everyone’
We believe that we are differentiated by
our CSR proposition. CSR is increasingly
important to the Group and its large
managed contract customers in both
the public and private sector.
In 2009, the Group introduced a new
trading ethic, ‘Good for you, good for us,
good for everyone’ , that reflected our
determination to make real progress in
this area. The words have been matched
by our actions. 
Our investment in a new fleet
management system has reduced the
fuel consumption and noise pollution of
our delivery fleet, which enabled o2o
to secure the British Office Supplies
and Services (BOSS) Federation
Industry Award for the Environment in
2009. We have transformed our
National Distribution Centre (NDC) in
Manchester, by introducing
comprehensive recycling facilities and
many other new initiatives
recommended by the Environment
Agency. Our accreditation to the
ISO14001 environmental management
standard has been extended to include
our Basingstoke operation and further
sites will follow in 2010. Following the
successful trials in producing recycled
copier paper from our customers’
waste paper, we intend to roll out and
further develop our new “close the
loop” initiative.
These and many other CSR
achievements will be described more
fully in the Group’s CSR Review which is
published under separate cover. We are
committed to delivering further
initiatives. From every perspective,
commercial and ethical, it is the right
thing for us to do.
Management and employees
In 2009, o2o completed the integration
of the back office functions of Accord
and AccessPlus with those of the Group.
As a result, the brand managers are now
focused solely on sales, commercial
management and customer service,
whilst enjoying the improved efficiency
of consolidated Group functions.
We have sought to develop an open and
approachable management style and I
have been encouraged by the improved
communication and relationships across
the Group at all levels. I would like to
take this opportunity to thank our
employees for their continued support
during a difficult year, despite the
commercial necessity of maintaining a
salary freeze. They remain our greatest
asset and we highly value their
experience, expertise and loyalty.
Outlook
Whilst trading conditions in 2009 have
been difficult, the Group has
successfully improved the level of
underlying profit before tax year-on-
year. This achievement reflects both
the underlying strength of our business
and our ability to implement essential
management decisions quickly and
effectively. Having taken the necessary
steps to reshape the business from as
early as 2007, we are confident that
our cost base is now appropriate to our
business strategy and prevailing
market conditions. 
As we move into 2010 our focus is on
business growth and, in particular, on
maximising the opportunity to cross-
sell the Group’s portfolio of business
services into its established client base.
We recognise that the expectation of
public sector expenditure cuts creates
some uncertainty. Nonetheless, our
success in securing a position on the
Pan-Government Collaborative
Framework provides us with a
significant opportunity to both grow
our secure disposal services business
and strengthen our position in the
public sector. 
o2o continues to monitor the market for
acquisition opportunities that will
enhance its strategy to grow the
business. 
I believe that we are well placed to
weather the challenges of 2010.
S R Moate
Chief Executive
24 March 2010
