 12
Business Review Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.omegadiagnostics.com
Chief Executive’s Review
Strategy update
Our global distribution network and increasing routes to market have  
been crucial to our success this year, despite some issues with the 
microarray production technology. We now have a significant presence  
in the food intolerance testing market but opportunities still exist for more 
expansion in this area. While we continue to see good organic growth 
with both the Genarrayt™ microarray and Food Detective™ macroarray 
technologies, organic growth alone is not sufficient to see the change  
that we all wish to see.
Acquisitive growth to ensure transformational change is key for the 
year ahead and we believe that good value propositions exist that  
can deliver growth. 13
Business Review Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.omegadiagnostics.com
I am pleased to report that the Group has seen an increase in revenue 
for the year to £6.20 million, some 14% ahead of last year’s figures 
(2009: £5.44 million). Revenue increased in two of the three key areas  
of product application with the exception of infectious disease tests.
Infectious disease tests
Sales of infectious disease tests decreased to £1.79 million (2009: 
£1.83 million) for the year representing a decline of 2.0% which was 
due to lost tender business in a key market in the Middle East. The 
small acquisition of Co-Tek (South West) Ltd in late September 2009 
gave the Group a secure supply of low-cost bacterial diagnostic 
tests. Prior to the acquisition they had been exclusively supplying one 
of our competitors, who in turn had been supplying us. They, in turn, 
had been acquired by another competitor in a consolidation deal,  
so threatening our supply. Our ability to capture and control the 
supply chain, with decreased costs, has provided us with more 
competitive pricing for our international markets. We therefore  
expect better results in the year ahead as we access larger volume 
business with international tenders which traditionally have longer 
lead times. We have also seized the opportunity to conclude a 
long-term supply agreement with the former supplier which  
secures sales going forward.
Food intolerance
Food intolerance testing has seen a growth of 31% in the year 
resulting in sales of £2.96 million. (2009: £2.26 million).
For the Genarrayt™ laboratory system and on-going reagent sales, 
we have seen growth in sales to £1.04 million (2009: £0.72 million). 
This growth has been achieved by the installation of 15 new systems 
into a further eight territories as well as increasing the number of 
installed systems in countries already active with Genarrayt™.  
This now brings the total number of installed systems up to 57  
since launch. Sales of Genarrayt™ food intolerance systems  
reached £212k (2009: £146k) with sales of reagent kits reaching 
£828k (2009: £574k). 
As with the Genarrayt™ system, the Food Detective™ test for food 
intolerance has seen sales rise to £790k (2009: £314k) with sales  
into many new countries around the world. The number of countries 
where we have now sold product has increased to 46 (2009: 18), 
resulting in an increase in volumes of approximately 150% to 
34,241 kits (2009: 13,392). Additional distributors from other 
countries are in discussion and product registration has recently 
been achieved in Brazil, one of the Group’s largest single markets 
and a key strategic market going forward. Registration in China  
is proceeding but the timescale for completion is somewhat 
indeterminate given the complex regulatory environment existing  
in that country. 
The UK market has also seen a doubling in sales to £216k  
(2009: £104k) following a promotional campaign and by opening up 
sales to professional re-sellers. In addition, the testing services for 
food intolerance and other related tests have shown an increase in 
business to £371k (2009: £314k) and further development of this  
side of the business is anticipated.
“ We have continued to increase 
sales of key products, particularly 
in food intolerance testing, through 
further expansion of our global 
distribution network and we are 
going to build upon this success  
by the introduction of new 
products in high-value markets.”
Andrew Shepherd
Chief Executive 14
Business Review Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.omegadiagnostics.com
Chief Executive’s Review
(continued)
Autoimmune tests
Sales of autoimmune tests increased by 5% to £660k (2009: £630k) 
with growth restrained by the fact that the tests are manual assays 
without a dedicated equipment platform. In a market that is 
increasingly becoming controlled by ‘closed systems’, i.e. tests that 
can only be used on dedicated equipment, we do not see this area 
as a source for major growth in the future although some work has 
been done on adapting several of the tests to be able to work on 
other companies ‘open systems’, i.e. equipment that will allow the  
use of any manufacturer’s test kits.
While the application of the Genarrayt™ microarray technology to 
autoimmune disease testing had been considered, better prospects 
for the application of this technology have emerged (see Research 
and development).
Distribution network
The Group’s strength in distribution has seen it record growth in all 
geographic regions into which it sells. Apart from South and Central 
America, all other regions showed double-digit growth in percentage 
terms, growth which we expect to continue as we see a further roll 
out of Genarrayt™ systems and increased sales traction of Food 
Detective™ with existing distributors.
One area of business under development is the partnership with 
regional affiliated laboratories who offer food intolerance tests under 
the CNS name using the Genarrayt™ assay system and FoodPrint™ 
results trademark. This allows local provision of food intolerance  
tests in countries where, until recently, customers had to send their 
samples either to Europe or the US at great expense and with a long 
time delay. This aspect of market expansion is starting to take hold  
in the Middle East and we plan to extend this side of the business  
to other geographical areas throughout the year.
Research and development
In early 2009 we invested in a high throughput, non-contact 
microarray printer to handle the expected increase in Genarrayt™ 
business. Unfortunately, several technical issues prevented the 
equipment coming into routine production and the supplier was 
unable to resolve them to our satisfaction. In December 2009 we 
made the decision to retain the previous contact printing method 
whilst trying to resolve the outstanding technical issues with the  
new equipment. Although slightly less efficient than the non-contact 
printer, this meant we could continue production and supply of 
Genarrayt™ kits. By the end of March 2010, it was clear that the 
issues could not be resolved to our satisfaction and the decision  
was taken to remain with the established method for producing food 
intolerance arrays. In order to increase capacity of the array slides  
we have invested in additional contact printers which have also 
improved our yield. We are confident that future anticipated growth  
of Genarrayt™ products will be unaffected by the decision to stay 
with the contact printing method for the immediate future and 
manufacturing capacity is now secured for next year.
During the year most of the R&D resource was allocated to production 
and product support duties so the ability to develop new products was 
reduced. However, with resolution to production capacity issues we 
expect to be able to spend more time developing additional products 
on the Genarrayt™ microarray platform. We aim to deliver new variants 
of the IgG Genarrayt™ food intolerance assay to be able to compete 
better with our competitors and these will also include food additives 
which, until now, have not been included on the array. Several projects 
for new product development have been initiated which we expect to 
positively impact in the new financial year.
