 Omega Diagnostics Group PLC Annual Report and Group Financial Statements 2014
14
Chief Executive’s Review
Andrew Shepherd Chief Executive
In summary
 – Solid business performance – Group 
revenue increased by 3% to £11.6 million.
 – Adjusted proﬁt before tax increased 
by 41% to £1.1 million.
 – Completed much of the foundation work for 
marketing Visitect
®
 CD4 in a number of east 
African states and have begun this process 
in India, francophone Africa and the Far East. 
 – Global health activities enhanced by new 
product developments which positions 
us well for future growth. 
 – Board strengthened by appointment 
of Bill Rhodes.
IDS-iSYS Allergy
Development efforts have continued throughout the year and 
we continue to invest in facilities and skilled manpower to bring 
this project to fruition. We all appreciate that this project has taken 
longer to reach a marketable product than ﬁrst anticipated and this 
has been a source of frustration for all concerned. However, when 
we do launch this product, from the results seen to date, we will 
have a product that will compete very well and will support our 
objective to secure a number two market position behind the 
current market leader.
CD4
Technology transfer
Our strategy of maximising shareholder value through the 
development of innovative new products, such as Visitect
®
 CD4, 
using global partnerships with groups, such as the Burnet Institute, 
has taken a major move forward in the year with the successful 
completion of the technology transfer from bench top manufacture 
to a scalable and robust manufacturing protocol. You will recall 
that this involved successfully completing a three-batch validation 
of our manufacturing protocol, a process which involved validation 
of the test on venous blood samples at a UK reference laboratory.
Manufacturing
In the year, we established our UK facility for Visitect
®
 CD4 production 
which is now fully validated under ISO approved procedures. We have 
also leased a facility and we will shortly commence the interior build of 
a manufacturing base in Pune, India. This has been part funded by a 
£0.4 million grant from the Burnet Institute which itself received a grant 
for US$1.6 million from UNITAID to fund large scale ﬁeld trials in South 
Africa and India. The establishment of an Indian manufacturing facility 
will enable us to produce the test locally, thereby avoiding a punitive 
import duty rate that currently exists for Rapid Test imports into India. 
As well as producing Visitect
®
 CD4 tests, we are aiming to manufacture 
other Rapid Tests for the Indian market and beyond where cost per 
test is a major barrier to market entry.
Field evaluations
The next stage of the process has involved testing the product 
under ﬁeld conditions with the intention that patient data is used 
to determine what, if any, aspects of the test require ﬁne-tuning. 
Such Beta trials are underway in Kenya and India and are 
providing the clinical data we need. 
In India, 140 patient samples have been tested to date. Based on an 
interim analysis of these data, the test has produced results on venous 
blood samples which match with the Company’s performance design 
parameters. Results to date on ﬁnger stick blood show similar overall 
diagnostic performance but with slightly lower levels of sensitivity and 
corresponding higher levels of speciﬁcity. This is being investigated 
as the trial proceeds. 
The trial in Kenya has been extended beyond the initial 200 patients 
because test performance was just below optimal performance on 
both venous and ﬁnger stick blood and additional devices have already 
been sent to Kenya for further evaluation. The investigative site has also 
received additional user training by Omega staff, and we expect that 
these additional tests will allow us to determine, and correct, 
the root cause of this difference.
Good progress being made to
deliver the full value of Visitect
®
CD4 and exploit other opportunities
through an increased presence
in the global health market. 15
Omega Diagnostics Group PLC Annual Report and Group Financial Statements 2014
Strategic Report
Procurement
A country’s ability to purchase commercial quantities of Visitect
®
 
CD4 is dependent upon receiving a positive recommendation from 
its regulatory authority and Omega having attained CE Mark status 
for the product which is within sight. In resource-poor countries, 
supplies will be funded with NGO/Aid money and procured through 
supplier-approved channels. One major procurement agency has 
already evaluated our quality management system and conﬁrmed 
Omega to be a very low risk supplier with regard to manufacturing 
Visitect
®
 CD4. 
As well as ease of use, another driver for the introduction of new CD4 
testing technologies is a reduction in the cost per test which will 
allow more people to be tested and treated using available funds. 
Marketing and training
Over the last year there has been a major effort in priming the 
market for the test to the point where the Company has developed 
a strong presence in the global health arena and is recognised as 
a serious contender. Visitect
®
 CD4 is still the only instrument-free, 
disposable CD4 test available in the world despite competition 
from several other groups.
Training is a vital element in launching any new test technology 
and a training package has been developed which has proved 
successful in the initial ﬁeld trial roll-out in Africa and India.
mHealth
In addition to the test itself, the development of the Android smartphone 
App to record and transmit Visitect
®
 CD4 test results has completed its 
development and is also undergoing ﬁeld trials. We expect this App to 
be fully available in the new ﬁnancial year which will offer integration into 
cloud/LIMS host databases to provide last mile solutions in resource 
challenged environments. This so-called “mHealth” solution has met 
with great enthusiasm by NGOs and global health organisations as 
the test/App combination offers a complete solution from test site to 
management headquarters. mHealth itself is being seen as a new way 
of educating and providing health information solutions to governments 
and aid agencies so with the Visitect
®
 App we are at the forefront 
of these developments.
Other global health developments
HIV Viral Load
This area of diagnostic testing is very challenging given that a 
complex test is expected to be used in a resource-poor setting 
by low skilled workers. While a few systems have been developed, 
they are far from true point-of-care (POC) tests. Discussions with 
several groups are underway which may deliver the test that is 
required but it is likely to be some time before any signiﬁcant 
progress will be made due to the complexity of the technologies 
being utilised and the settings where the test will be used. Moving 
into the HIV Viral Load testing arena means an entrance into the 
molecular diagnostics market, the fastest growing sector of the 
IVD market.
Syphilis
Our development team is now working on other projects which 
have a high demand in the global health arena. One such assay 
is the Syphilis POC test developed by the Burnet Institute, and 
exclusively licensed to Omega, which can be used in the same 
resource-poor settings as Visitect
®
 CD4.
As a global leader in the ﬁeld of syphilis diagnostics we are 
already well placed to exploit this development as we are already 
promoting our current range of products around the world into 
many resource-poor countries. Currently, there are no POC tests 
that can detect active Syphilis, although many tests can detect 
past treated infections. The test, developed by Burnet, allows for 
the detection of an antibody that is only present at the active stage 
of infection and which disappears after successful treatment. This 
test will accurately diagnose active Syphilis and allow for immediate 
treatment at the point of care without the need for further laboratory 
analysis. This test could therefore result in signiﬁcant improvements 
in the health of women and children through the prevention of 
stillbirths and severe neonatal morbidity. In 2008, the mortality 
associated with congenital Syphilis amounted to 1.4 million pregnant 
women. In addition to the test development, it is anticipated that an 
App will also be developed to work on the same Android smartphone 
as the Visitect
®
 CD4 App, thereby linking the point of care result to 
management database systems.
Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTD)
Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) disproportionately affect 
the world’s poorest and most vulnerable people, inﬂicting serious 
disﬁgurement and disability, reducing productivity, quality of life, 
often resulting in death. The combined impact of NTDs rivals the 
effects of human immunodeﬁciency virus (HIV), Tuberculosis and 
Malaria. More and more funding is being donated to overcome 
these diseases to the point where development of appropriate 
diagnostic tests are now commercially viable.
Schistosomiasis
One example of an NTD is Schistosomiasis which is a disease 
caused by a worm that is present in many tropical countries. 
200 million people are estimated to be infected with a further 
600 million at risk. After Malaria, Schistosomiasis is the second 
most important disease caused by a parasite. It is likely that as 
programmes to control Schistosomiasis roll out in Africa there 
will be an increasing need for a test that detects the disease 
sensitively and speciﬁcally. Omega is working with an expert 
in this disease area and good early progress is being made 
in the development of a new lateral ﬂow test. It is anticipated 
that ﬁeld trials could commence in the second half of the year.
Outlook
The new ﬁnancial year is set to be a dynamic one with Visitect
®
 CD4 
coming to the market. The sales potential is high but, as alluded 
to above, in the NGO/aid market sector there are some hurdles to 
overcome such as individual country evaluations and approvals. We 
remain conﬁdent about selling signiﬁcant quantities of product; however, 
the timing to forecast when this business will materialise is not an exact 
science. The core business remains in good shape as evidenced by 
the increase in Food intolerance sales and increased proﬁt before tax 
so we are well positioned to take advantage of the good conditions to 
deliver on our goals of launching Visitect
®
 CD4 and the iSYS Allergy 
platform later in the year.
By focusing on our core strategic areas and with increased focus 
on global health markets we believe that we are building a secure 
and stable platform for growth and enhanced proﬁtability.
Andrew Shepherd
Chief Executive
20 June 2014
