 Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.omegadiagnostics.com 10
Chairman’s Statement
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to report the progress 
we have made throughout the Group, 
both in delivering organic growth from 
existing products and the completion 
of a small acquisition in the year.
Strategy
The Group has achieved another year of solid progress where  
the in-house strength of being able to build successful distribution 
relationships has led to further growth for key products. Food 
Detective™ has performed particularly strongly where its market 
positioning, focussed on the professional nutritionist market in  
the UK and abroad, has enabled growth into over 40 countries.  
The Genarrayt™ microarray assay system continues to offer 
laboratories superior performance over conventional microplate 
formats and is now being used in all five continental regions we 
report on. These two products were key in delivering growth 
following the acquisition of Genesis-CNS and it is pleasing to  
report their ongoing success. Future growth will also be dependent 
on our ability to use the microarray platform for tests other than for 
food intolerance, and our ability to identify and execute on other 
opportunities will be key to this.
We also successfully achieved the opportunistic acquisition of  
Co-Tek (South West) Ltd in September last year which, prior to  
its acquisition, was already a supplier to the Group through an 
intermediary company. Bringing Co-Tek into the fold has put  
us in a position of being able to supply part of the range of  
infectious disease products on a more competitive basis.
We are grateful for the support from existing and new shareholders in 
supporting the £1m fundraising for this transaction and we continue 
to review suitable acquisition opportunities in recognition of a need  
to transform ourselves if we are truly to deliver shareholder and 
stakeholder value and benefits.
Financial
Turnover for the Group increased to £6.2 million (2009: £5.4 million),  
up 14% over last year. We are pleased with the achievement of this 
result against an economic backdrop that has been challenging for 
many, and we will continue to ensure a wide geographic coverage  
for our products to mitigate this risk as far as possible.
The Group achieved an EBITDA of £698k (2009: £915k) before 
exceptional items and share-based payment charges. The relative 
strength of sterling against the US dollar compared to the previous year 
led to a turnaround in foreign exchange differences on trading activities 
of £122k, with a loss this year of £28k (2009: £94k gain). The remaining 
difference of £95k arises on the increase in gross profit of £272k being 
offset by increased investment in operational costs of £367k, driven 
largely by an increase in sales and marketing costs to support the 
increased sales growth I have referred to above.
We consistently report on adjusted profit before tax so shareholders 
can easily gauge our performance as compared to external market 
forecasts. The Group achieved an increase in adjusted profit before tax 
to £589k (2009: £540k). This figure is arrived at by taking headline profit 
before tax of £210k and adding back analyst-adjusted items including 
IFRS-related net discount charges of £92k, amortisation of intangible 
assets of £109k and share-based payment charges of £178k.
“ Turnover has continued its growth 
of recent years, climbing to £6.2 
million representing an increase  
of 14% over last year.”
David Evans
Non-executive Chairman 11
Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.omegadiagnostics.com
Net finance costs have reduced significantly to £97k (2009: £306k)  
for two reasons. Firstly, the benign environment for interest rates  
has seen the UK base rate at 0.50% throughout the year which  
has led to a reduction in net interest on borrowings and secondly,  
the strengthening of sterling against the US dollar has the opposite 
effect leading to translation gains on US dollar borrowings. 
Profit after tax amounted to £187k (2009: £221k) which resulted in 
earnings per share of 1.0p versus earnings per share of 1.4p in the 
previous year. 
Balance sheet
The Group has intangible assets of £5.2 million (2009: £4.9 million)  
at the year-end comprised of goodwill of £3.3 million and intangible 
assets of £1.8 million, separately identified in line with current IFRS. 
The Group performs annual impairment reviews under current 
accounting standards and is comfortable with the carrying value  
of its intangible assets given the growth and results for the year  
just ended.
Net debt (total borrowings less cash) reduced to £1.26 million from 
£1.64 million as the Group continues to generate cash in excess of 
servicing its borrowings.
Research and development
It is our aim to widen the use of our microarray platform into areas 
capable of delivering increased value, to mirror successes seen  
with the food intolerance assays, which will require an increase  
in production capacity. Last year we embarked upon a project  
to upgrade the method to manufacture array slides. This project  
had certain technical issues and, whilst progress was made,  
the equipment supplier was unable to resolve all the issues to our 
satisfaction and we took the difficult decision to terminate the project 
for our existing food intolerance assays. We have since sourced
increased capacity for the tried-and-tested method and are 
comfortable with the capacity now available for production needs. 
Future development needs can, to a large extent, be met from existing 
capacity. However, we believe that by working in conjunction with the 
supplier we can resolve the technical issues so that non-contact 
printing can be commissioned for future intended applications.
Board and employees
As announced during the year, Geoff Gower joined the Board on 
22 December 2009. Geoff joined the Group in May 2009 as the 
Managing Director of Genesis and CNS and his experience in 
operations and general management of diagnostics companies 
will no doubt be of benefit for our future aims.
I know the results achieved for the year don’t happen automatically 
and I would like to thank all employees for their hard work where,  
in the second half in particular, much effort was made in delivering 
results in line with expectations.
Outlook
Trading in the first three months of the year is in line with current 
management expectation.
We continue to review acquisition opportunities to transform the Group 
and whilst there can be no guarantee of completing any transaction,  
I hope to be able to update you with progress on this element of our 
strategy during this financial year. 
David Evans, CA
Non-executive Chairman
15 July 2010
