 Omega Diagnostics Group PLC Annual Report and Group Financial Statements 2014
04
Chairman’s Statement
David Evans Non-executive Chairman
In summary
 – Increased patent protection for CD4 with 
patent awards in the US and Africa.
 – We successfully raised £4 million (before 
expenses) to ensure sufﬁcient resources are 
available for our CD4 and allergy projects.
 – Successful completion of the CD4 technology 
transfer project into a fully scalable 
manufacturing protocol.
 – Finalisation of the speciﬁc allergy assay 
protocol for use with the IDS-iSYS instrument 
with allergens successfully completing the 
development programme.
 – Burnet Institute and Omega successful in 
attracting grant funding from UNITAID with 
Omega receiving £0.4 million.
Strategy
Point-of-care (POC) testing
The Group has a clear strategy to become a market leader in the 
provision of POC testing for infectious diseases in large parts of the 
world where resources remain constrained and where there are 
substantial unmet needs. Visitect
®
 CD4 is the ﬁrst example of this 
where an estimated 17 million HIV positive patients cannot obtain 
the treatment they need through a lack of access to CD4 testing in 
rural areas. Visitect
®
 CD4 is an instrument-free device that requires 
no power and no refrigeration facilities and can generate a result in 
40 minutes. Beta studies in Kenya and India are providing further 
patient data to determine what, if any, aspects of the test require 
further optimisation. As this test nears commercialisation, we will 
continue to partner with major NGOs and global health organisations 
to ensure this test is delivered at the point of most need.
Through our partnership with the Burnet Institute, we also have 
access to a POC test for syphilis which can differentiate between 
active infections and past infections. According to World Health 
Organisation (WHO) estimates, there are 12 million new cases 
of syphilis each year with 90% occurring in developing countries. 
At present, there are no POC assays on the market that can 
detect speciﬁc IgM antibodies and we have recently increased 
our in-house resource and capability to move this project forward 
to provide a valuable tool for improved control of syphilis worldwide.
Automation
When we purchased the IVD allergy business in Germany in 2010, 
it was the ﬁrst step in a plan to become a leading provider of allergy 
tests into clinical laboratories in a global market estimated to be worth 
over US $500 million per annum, dominated by one competitor. 
Since then, we have exclusively licensed the use of IDS’ automated 
iSYS instrument for allergy testing and invested in a long development 
programme covering initial feasibility, lock-down of assay protocol, 
optimisation and claim support work. We have also set up an in-house 
manufacturing facility for reagent ﬁlling. During the second half of the 
year, we ﬁnally saw the ﬁrst allergens to emerge from this programme 
following a successful claim support phase. We have eight allergens 
which can be run on the iSYS instrument that show comparable 
results to the market-leading competitor and a further 16 allergens 
which have now completed optimisation. Our strategic aim remains 
unaltered: to launch with a panel of 40 allergens, followed by a 
programme of menu extensions to achieve a number two market 
position. Our initial commercialisation plans involve working with IDS 
in markets where it has a direct presence, followed by expansion 
into other territories through third party distributors.
Financial performance
The Group performed well, particularly in the second half of the year, 
with turnover for the whole year increasing by 3% to £11.6 million 
(2013: £11.3 million). Gross proﬁt increased to £7.4 million 
(2013: £7.1 million) and total overheads were maintained at 
approximately £6.8 million. Adjusted proﬁt before tax (as deﬁned 
on page 31) increased by 41% to £1.1 million, from million £0.8 million 
the year before, and adjusted earnings per share were 1.2 pence 
(2013: 1.3 pence) reﬂecting the higher average number of shares 
in issue throughout the year.
The Group remains in a strong cash position with cash reserves 
of £3.1 million (2013: £0.2 million) at the year end following the 
fundraising completed in June last year. A strong contribution 
from operating activities generated a cash inﬂow during the year 
of £1.7 million (2013: £1.0 million), ensuring we continued to 
manage our working capital with efﬁciency.
The Group remains in a
strong cash position with
cash reserves of £3.1 million. 05
Omega Diagnostics Group PLC Annual Report and Group Financial Statements 2014
Overview
Corporate governance
The size and structure of the Board and its committees are kept 
under review to ensure an appropriate level of governance operates 
throughout the year. The Board comprises two Non-executive Directors 
and three Executive Directors who meet frequently during the year 
to discuss strategy and to review progress and outcomes against 
objectives. Whilst, as an AIM-quoted company, the Group is not 
required to comply with the full requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, we believe the Board has a good mix of skills 
and experience and a culture that easily enables the Non-executive 
members of the Board to challenge and advise the Executive team 
as appropriate.
The Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee are 
comprised of the two Non-executive Directors and the Board 
believes the current make-up and number of committees remain 
appropriate for a Group of our size.
Board and employees
I am very pleased that we were able to appoint Bill Rhodes as a 
Non-executive Director to the Board during the year and his input 
and insightfulness is already providing a valuable contribution. His 
knowledge and experience from many years spent at Becton Dickinson 
and elsewhere will continue to support our strategy outlined above. 
I would like to reiterate past thanks to Mike Gurner who retired from 
the Board last year, and who contributed much to the Group since 
it ﬁrst became a public company.
Much of the progress we have made would not be achieved without 
the hard work of our employees. We now have 145 individuals 
around the world and I would personally like to thank each and 
every one of them for their contribution throughout this year.
Positive outlook
Trading in the new ﬁnancial year to date is in line with management 
expectations with the marginal growth in food intolerance testing being 
offset by the marginal decline in Allergy and Infectious disease testing.
Our future landscape is brightened, as well as dominated, by the 
prospects for our Visitect
®
 CD4 test, which is now well into its ﬁeld 
trials. However, we all have a dislike for complete uncertainty and 
that is our challenge in being able to set our budgets for the current 
year in relation to both the timing and quantum of CD4 revenues. 
CD4 will, without doubt, be a successful product for the Group, but 
we would be foolish to believe that our crystal ball is better than yours 
in being able to forecast with certainty the decision outputs from the 
NGO’s we are working with. This is primarily a global tender-based 
business, with timing driven by the availability of funds and the then 
current view of the various governments as to need. Due to this 
fundamental timing uncertainty we have erred on the side of caution 
in terms of both revenues and building our overhead base ahead of 
the revenue curve. When those cautious assumptions change we 
will update the market accordingly.
We will make signiﬁcant progress this year in terms of gaining 
market acceptance for CD4 and I believe the prospects for the 
Group overall are positive.
David Evans
Non-executive Chairman
20 June 2014
We are determined to
deliver the true beneﬁts
and value from our unique
Visitect
®
 CD4 product.
p20
Governance
p14
Chief Executive’s 
Review
