 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
3
Omega International Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004
OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
 Twenty new kitchens launched in 2004
 Further investment in new outlets and displays
 Manufacturing productivity improved by 18%
 96% of all kitchens shipped complete and on time
Omega’s three brands, Sheraton, Omega
Kitchens and Chippendale Kitchens are
distributed and sold through a national
network of specialist kitchen outlets, the
majority of which are independent retailers.
Omega had a very good year with progress
being made in all areas of the business.
The Group continued with its investment
in expanding and strengthening its display
base on all three brands by taking on new
displaying dealers as well as adding displays
of new kitchen ranges within existing outlets.
During 2004 Omega also increased its
focus on sales activity in the South where
historically its distribution has not been as
concentrated. This ongoing initiative is
expected to gain momentum throughout
2005 and make an increased contribution
to the business.
New product development continues to
be a key area for the Group. Twenty new
kitchens were launched during 2004 across
all three brands, helping to improve yields
per outlet as well as refreshing the mix
of kitchens on display nationally.
Omega continues to work closely with its
displaying outlets, utilising its national sales
force to motivate dealers and their staff
as well as constructing tailored marketing
packages including showroom layouts,
staff training, CAD planning and quotations,
product promotions and support materials.
Our modest market share should allow us
to continue with our growth plans even if
market conditions ease.
The operational side of the business also
made significant progress. Production
volumes increased by around 20% in line
with sales growth and manufacturing
volumes per operative improved by over
18% in the year.
Service levels remained consistently high,
averaging 96% of all kitchens being
despatched complete and on time to our
dealers or their customers’ home addresses.
The Group continues with its successful
formula into 2005, targeting additional new
display outlets and further strengthening the
existing display network. Four new kitchens
have been launched into Sheraton this
month and a new product development
programme for Omega Kitchens and
Chippendale Kitchens is now underway
with launches planned for September 2005.
Francis Galvin
Chief Executive
23 March 2005
123
4
1 Craftsman Chestnut
2 Ferrara Natural Oak
3 Mattonella Gloss Stone
4 Vintage Knotty Oak
THE FOUR NEW
SHERATON
KITCHENS
_0_OMG_arf04.qxd  01/04/2005  10:25  Page 3
