 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
www.omegadiagnostics.com 02
Chairman’s Statement 
The Group has taken steps to improve 
performance in all its segments with continued 
investment in people and product opportunities.
Notable achievements
The Group has made progress on a number of fronts:
 > Turnover in excess of £10 million for the first time.
 > Adjusted profit before tax of £1 million.
 > iSYS development programme; first batch of six 
allergens moving through optimisation with a further 
18 allergens having commenced optimisation.
 > Increase in average revenue per Genarrayt
®
 system 
(excluding Spain which, due to its size, skews the 
numbers) by 25% to £10,783.
 > Strengthening of the Board with Jag Grewal as  
Sales and Marketing Director.
 > Conclusion of feasibility with two allergens on  
a rapid, low sample volume platform that could 
eventually run between 10-20 allergen tests on  
a Point-of-Care (“POC”) device.
 > Direct access to Indian market achieved with 
incorporation of fully owned subsidiary Omega Dx 
(Asia) Pvt Ltd.
 > Signing of license agreements with Burnet Institute, 
Melbourne for exclusive worldwide rights to POC 
tests for CD4 and Syphilis.
Segmental turnover
 > The Allergy and Autoimmune division achieved  
a growth in turnover of 191%, with sales of £4.48 million 
(2011: £1.54 million) following a full year contribution 
from our German business.
 > The Food Intolerance division continued to perform 
well with growth in turnover of 10% to £3.90 million 
(2011: £3.56 million) with a strong performance from 
Food Detective
®
 and Genarrayt
®
.
 > Turnover in the Infectious Disease division fell  
back by 2% to £2.75 million (2011: £2.80 million) 
reflecting the competitive nature of this division but 
the opportunity with CD4 is expected to significantly 
enhance performance.
Financial performance
Turnover for the Group increased by 41% to £11.12 
million (2011: £7.90 million), which includes a full year’s 
contribution of trading from our German business. Gross 
profit increased to £7.0 million (2011: £4.71 million) and 
the gross margin improved from 60% to 63% reflecting  
a segmental mix towards higher margin business. 
Adjusted profit before tax increased by 36% to £1.0 
million (2011: £0.74 million) with our Food Intolerance 
division performing particularly well. A reconciliation 
between profit before tax and adjusted profit before tax 
is shown at the foot of the income statement on page 31.
EPS
Net finance costs have remained stable at £38k  
(2011: £31k) and the Group achieved an adjusted  
profit after tax of £1,052k being adjusted profit before  
tax of £1,004k plus the tax credit of £48k. This resulted  
in adjusted earnings per share of 1.2p (2011: 1.7p) due  
to the increased average shares in issue of 85,238,746 
(2011: 38,278,631). Statutory profit after tax amounted  
to £527k (2011: £31k) which resulted in earnings per 
share of 0.6p versus earnings per share of 0.1p in the 
previous year. 
Balance sheet
Assets
 > Intangible assets reduced to £9.1 million (2011:  
£9.4 million) reflect ongoing amortisation and final 
adjustments to goodwill on the acquisition of the 
German IVD business.
 > Inventories of £1.7 million (2011: £1.5 million) reflect 
growing business volumes.
 > Cash at year end of £1.2 million (2011: £2.1 million).
Liabilities
 > Trade and other payables reduced slightly  
to £1.5 million (2011: £1.6 million).
 > Total borrowings and other financial liabilities 
reduced to £1.4 million (2011: £2.1 million) reflecting 
repayment of bank debt of £0.3 million and 
settlement of IDS-iSYS licence fee instalment  
of £0.4 million.
Funding
After the year end, the Company successfully negotiated 
an overdraft facility of £700,000 on normal commercial 
terms which is subject to an annual review and is repayable 
on demand.  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
 www.omegadiagnostics.com 03
Strategic direction
As the Group looks to build on its progress to date,  
it is clear that to achieve significant year-on-year growth 
we either need to increase the level of automation for 
customers or to provide POC tests to provide solutions 
for unmet needs in developing markets. From a market 
perspective, a focus on the growing BRIC countries is 
expected to yield above average results.
Automation
The ongoing development work with the IDS-iSYS 
instrument is key to the future growth of the Allergy 
division. This programme, as planned, is rightly 
consuming a significant part of the Group’s resources and 
is intended to achieve a significant market share in this 
growing market. Work has also continued in evaluating 
our range of Autoimmune products on a third party’s 
instrument with 12 out of 17 products validated to date.
POC tests
The signing of agreements with the Burnet Institute in 
Melbourne has provided worldwide exclusive access  
to their developed POC test for CD4, a biomarker which, 
when measured accurately, can detect the point in time 
at which antiretroviral therapy should commence for 
patients with HIV infection. The current gold standard 
flow cytometry tests are performed in a laboratory that 
have the disadvantage of results only becoming available 
at a later date, by which time, many patients have been 
‘lost’ to treatment. The availability of a CD4 POC test 
meets a current unmet need in developing countries.  
The Group and the Burnet Institute have successfully 
completed the initial stages of a technology transfer  
for manufacturing, with a small scale batch of prototype 
devices meeting preliminary Burnet evaluation. We expect 
this to be officially launched at the 19th International 
AIDS conference, AIDS 2012, in Washington DC on 
22-27 July 2012.
In addition, a separate agreement has been signed  
with the Burnet Institute, granting the Group exclusive 
worldwide rights to its Syphilis IgM POC test. This is  
the only test in the world that can differentiate active 
infections from past infections.
BRIC focus
The setting up of Omega Dx in India allows us to take 
direct control over the marketing and supply of products 
into the Indian market. Historically the largest market  
for the Group’s Infectious Disease products, India, has  
a growing middle class population which represents  
a significant opportunity for both the Food Intolerance 
and Allergy range of products. The validation of the 
Autoimmune tests on an automated platform has been 
driven, initially, by an opportunity in China but which also 
provides an opportunity for international expansion.
Board and employees
I am pleased that we have appointed Jag Grewal as 
Group Sales and Marketing Director who is providing 
additional strength to Andrew and his team. Simon 
Keller’s appointment as International Business 
Development Director for Food Intolerance will, I am 
sure, lead to better performance for this division. Finally, 
none of the progress above happens automatically  
and I am grateful for the hard work of all employees  
who have contributed to the results announced today. 
Outlook
Turnover in the first quarter is in line with management 
expectation. 
The current trading environment remains challenging 
given the levels of economic uncertainty in Europe and 
the continuing budgetary constraints of the individual 
healthcare systems. 
As a consequence, it has recently emerged that the 
German healthcare system has begun a review of 
current reimbursement levels encompassing allergy 
testing in our market segment. At this stage, the timing 
and effect on the market is uncertain. 
However, against that background, we have continued  
to build on our core strengths and diversify our business 
and there are a number of opportunities which I believe 
will mitigate any of the aforementioned risk over the 
medium term. 
In particular, I believe the opportunity with CD4, which will 
commercially launch in July, offers the Group an ability to 
create significant strategic value based on the responses 
we have had to date from major global organisations.
The risks associated with our current allergy offering  
will be mitigated, not only through the launch of our 
allergy products on the IDS-iSYS at the end of the  
current financial year, but also with increased emphasis 
on export and alternative product offerings.
I look forward to updating you throughout the year.
David Evans
Non-Executive Chairman
29 June 2012
Financial  
Statements Governance
Business  
Review
Making  
Progress
