 10
Omega Diagnostics Group PLC Annual Report and Group Financial Statements 2013
Chief Executive’s review
The Group has seen a marginal increase 
in revenue for the year to £11.26 million, 
slightly ahead of last year’s ﬁgure 
(2012: £11.12 million). 
It is pleasing to have managed to retain 
proﬁtability in turbulent economic times. 
Our decision to go direct in the Indian 
market has been vindicated with a strong 
performance from the new team. With 
Visitect
® 
CD4, we have been making steady 
progress, with the technology transfer process 
nearing completion and the latest results 
looking very encouraging. In addition, our 
allergy test development programme with 
the IDS-iSYS instrument has also made 
good progress.
Food Intolerance
The Food Intolerance market has 
continued to grow despite the obvious 
pressures on consumer spending in 
Europe and the segment has continued 
to perform very well with sales growing 
by 13% to £4.39 million for the year ended 
31 March 2013 (2012: £3.90 million).
Sales of Food Detective
®
 grew by 
27% to £1.25 million (2012: £0.98 million) 
with Poland continuing to remain as the 
Group’s largest market for this product. 
The number of countries where we have 
now sold product has continued to increase 
to 72 (2012: 68) with an increase in volumes 
to 85,214 kits (2012: 60,782). The top ﬁve 
markets account for just over 50% of sales 
with good growth in China and Brazil which 
ﬁts with the Group’s strategic focus on 
BRIC countries. Product registration in 
China ﬁnally concluded in December 2012 
and as a result, we expect sales in China 
to increase. The signing of an exclusive 
distribution agreement with Super Religare 
Laboratories, India’s largest independent 
laboratory chain, should also lead to 
good sales growth going forward.
Sales of Genarrayt
®
 reagents have 
increased by 18% to £1.84 million (2012: 
£1.56 million) with France overtaking Spain 
to become the largest single market by 
sales. Revenue per instrument (excluding 
Spain) increased by 19% to £12,885 
(2012: £10,783) and 11 Genarrayt
®
 systems 
(2012: 13 systems) were sold in the year 
bringing the total global placements to 
119 systems.
Sales of Foodprint
®
 tests through the 
CNS testing laboratory have grown to 
£0.61 million (2012: £0.48 million). The 
testing services for food intolerance and 
The ‘game changing’ growth 
potential of the Visitect
®
 CD4 
product is expected to make 
a major impact in Global 
Health markets as this test 
satisﬁes a current unmet 
clinical need.
In summary
–  CD4 technology transfer nearing completion
 –  iSYS Allergy programme on track to launch 
40 allergen test menu by end of March 2014
 –  Appointment of Bill Rhodes as a 
Non-Executive Director
 –  Oversubscribed Fundraising to raise £4 million 
in cash before expenses
Andrew Shepherd Chief Executive 11
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Omega Diagnostics Group PLC Annual Report and Group Financial Statements 2013
other related tests have shown an increase 
in business to £0.65 million (2012: £0.62 million). 
The progress with registration of Food 
Detective
®
 in the United States has 
continued to be slow and the FDA has 
recently conﬁrmed that they will require 
either a 510(k) or PMA application to be 
ﬁled. The 510(k) route is considered to be 
the more unlikely option due to the lack of 
a suitable predicate device. As such, the 
timeline to registration remains uncertain. 
The whole business area of Food Intolerance 
testing in the US is under review and other 
additional routes to market are being 
explored, particularly for the Genarrayt
®
 
laboratory testing system which we believe 
has good potential and could be subject to 
a less onerous regulatory environment.
Allergy and Autoimmune
This segment has seen a reduction in sales 
of 7% to £4.16 million (2012: £4.48 million).
Sales for Omega Diagnostics GmbH 
(‘Omega GmbH’), our German subsidiary, 
fell by 7% to £3.59 million (2012: £3.86 
million). As reported at the interim results, 
the ﬁrst half saw a weaker pollen season 
due to unseasonably wet weather. A weaker 
Euro also contributed to the lower result. 
This segment performed better in the 
second half, helped by the launch of an 
Indian version of Allergodip
®
. The Company 
has also launched a new liquid format of 
the Allergozyme
®
 product range which is 
expected to contribute to Omega GmbH’s 
export performance in the new ﬁnancial year.
Sales of autoimmune tests reduced by 7% 
to £0.57 million (2012: £0.62 million). We 
previously reported that the current range 
of autoimmune test kits were limited to small 
labs with manual test systems. Continued 
consolidation in developed country laboratory 
markets mean that they require even more 
automation and menu driven solutions which 
has outpaced our own ability to invest in 
developing revised kit formats. Therefore 
the decision was taken to direct resources 
to the IDS-iSYS project. However, in India, 
a market dominated by many small, manual 
testing laboratories with less dependency 
on automated systems, we have seen an 
increase in business and we expect to see 
further growth in the new ﬁnancial year.
Infectious Disease/Other
Sales of infectious disease products fell 
slightly by 1% to £2.71 million (2012: £2.75 
million). This is despite the loss of annual 
sales of approximately £0.2 million in India 
due to a Government ban on the import 
of blood-based TB tests. The market 
for the current range still remains highly 
competitive but we believe that the 
CD4 opportunity will be the step change 
in activity and focus required to transform 
this segment.
CD4
The CD4 test, branded as Visitect
®
 CD4, was 
pre-launched at the 19th International AIDS 
Conference, AIDS 2012, in Washington DC, 
US on 22-27 July 2012 and the response 
to the product was extremely encouraging 
with a high level of interest being shown by 
various Governments, Non-Governmental 
Organisations (NGOs) and large multinational 
diagnostics companies. From the responses 
received we believe that we are closest to 
bringing a CD4 Point-of-Care test to market 
amongst other groups working in this area. 
This ﬁrst to market advantage will add extra 
impetus to the introduction of the commercial 
product when it becomes available.
The project to transfer the technology from 
the Burnet Institute to Omega is in its ﬁnal 
stages and, despite it taking longer than we 
ﬁrst envisaged, we are now in the process 
of selecting the ﬁnal, highly scalable 
manufacturing protocol. Evaluation sites in 
HIV Reference Laboratories in the UK, US 
and India are already established as well as 
a ﬁeld trial site in Mozambique and other 
countries through various NGOs.
Visitect
® 
CD4 was also showcased at the 
African Society for Laboratory Medicine 
meeting in Cape Town, South Africa in 
December 2012 and the response to 
the product mirrored that in Washington. 
This meeting also gave us the opportunity 
to gain further intelligence as to the market 
potential for the product. The global CD4 
need is expected to grow substantially over 
the next 8 years as countries scale up their 
HIV/AIDS treatment programmes. The number 
of tests is expected to rise from current 2012 
levels of just over 30 million to nearly 60 million 
tests by 2020.
The recent grant of a US Patent for the CD4 
technology also underlines the strong IP 
position for the test which extends the 
current patent protection in South Africa 
and the member states of the African 
Intellectual Property Organisation, with 
patents pending in many other territories.
We have also been looking to enhance the 
value of our Visitect
®
 CD4 product offering 
by responding to requests from Key Opinion 
Leaders to provide a ‘connectivity solution’ so 
that results can be transmitted from rural test 
sites to city-based Ministry locations. Although 
the test does not need an instrument to read 
the result, we have recently completed a 
feasibility study in using a smartphone camera 
to capture the result and then to transmit the 
result to management centres. While removing 
any operator subjectivity in interpreting the 
results, it could also provide additional beneﬁts 
such as disease demographic studies and 
supply chain logistics, a common problem 
found in resource-poor countries.
Distribution network 
Sales growth has been recorded in most 
geographic regions of the world with the 
exception of Europe which reduced by 1% 
to £6.41 million (2012: £6.48 million) and the 
Africa/Middle East region which dropped 
by 4% to £1.56 million (2012: £1.63 million). 
These reductions were more than offset by 
good growth in the Asia/Far East markets 
with sales rising by 9% to £1.44 million 
(2012: £1.32 million) and in the North 
American market by sales rising 6% to 
£0.35 million (2012: £0.33 million). Sales 
to South/Central America rose by 16% 
to £0.51 million (2012: £0.44 million).
BRIC Strategy
In the year, we have further concentrated 
our efforts on expanding our business in 
the BRIC group of countries and we have 
met with some success. In Brazil we 
increased sales by 10% to £0.29 million 
(2012: £0.26 million); in China we increased 
sales by 49% to £0.18 million (2012: £0.12 
million) but in Russia sales decreased by 
31% to £0.10 million (2012: £0.15 million) 
which was due to the timing of contract 
deliveries and the introduction of 
competitive automated systems.
Direct sales in India commenced at the end 
of July last year and the team has achieved 
an impressive sales performance which, 
when aggregated with the ﬁnal sales made 
by the old distributor in the three months of 
April-June 2012, meant total Indian sales 
of approximately £0.40m for the year. This 
compares to a prior year like-for-like sales 
ﬁgure of approximately £0.20 million (which 
excludes the TB product sales noted earlier).
Discussions have also been taking place 
with other IVD companies with a view to 
representing them in the Indian market 
and two distribution agreements have 
already been signed with others in 
early stage discussions.  12
Omega Diagnostics Group PLC Annual Report and Group Financial Statements 2013
Growth has been recorded 
in most geographic regions 
of the world.
“
Research and development
IDS-iSYS
During the year, our development efforts 
have focussed on a core set of assays with 
the ﬁrst group of 10 allergens completing 
optimisation. However, during that process, 
certain imprecision issues were identiﬁed 
with the assay protocol which, whilst taking 
longer to resolve than ﬁrst anticipated, have 
now been resolved. This protocol will now 
be used throughout the remaining 
development programme and the claim 
support phase with the ﬁrst 10 allergens 
has now commenced. The previous 
problem with the sourcing of sufﬁcient 
patient serum samples has now been 
resolved with enough material in stock 
to undertake the optimisation and claim 
support work for a further 30 allergens. 
Therefore, with the reproducibility of the 
chosen protocol, overall, we now anticipate 
launching a panel of 40 allergens by the 
end of March 2014.
In our last Annual Report we commented 
on efforts to either source or develop a 
multiplex testing platform for allergen 
speciﬁc IgE testing. Whilst those initial tests 
were encouraging, no further efforts have 
been made on this project as we decided 
to concentrate our development resources 
on the iSYS programme. 
Infectious Disease
At the same time as we licensed the 
CD4 test from the Burnet Institute we also 
licensed a second test technology for 
a POC test for detecting active Syphilis 
infection which is a major public health 
problem in developing countries. Progress 
with the technology transfer of this product 
has not advanced due to the time, effort 
and concentration being expended on CD4. 
We expect to renew our efforts with this test 
upon completion of the technology transfer 
of the CD4 test.
Enhancing the value of our Visitect
®
 CD4 product offering by 
responding to requests from Key Opinion Leaders to provide a 
‘mHealth solution’ so that results can be transmitted from rural 
test sites to city-based ministry locations.
VISITECT
®
 CD4 App
Results from remote village to Ministry of Health
Remote location
1
Download app
2
Run tests
3
VISITECT
®
CD4 Test
Chief Executive’s review continued 13
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Omega Diagnostics Group PLC Annual Report and Group Financial Statements 2013
Outlook
The new ﬁnancial year presents some 
challenges for the management team 
in terms of market and overall economic 
conditions. With new product introductions 
into key markets such as India and further 
growth in Food Intolerance in China and 
Brazil we expect to be able to respond 
positively to these challenges. The ‘game 
changing’ growth potential of the Visitect
®
 
CD4 product is expected to make a major 
impact in global health markets as this 
test satisﬁes a current unmet clinical need.
Over the last year, we have been given 
deep insight into the NGO/Aid-related business 
sector which is where the Visitect
®
 CD4 test 
is targeted. Until now, this sector has not been 
at the forefront of our commercial focus but 
we are reviewing this part of our strategy with 
a view to identifying other opportunities that 
would ﬁt into this sector. One such opportunity 
that may exist is in the area of HIV Viral Load 
testing, an area which is highly complementary 
to CD4 testing.
We have been delighted at the support 
received from existing shareholders and 
new investors for our recent oversubscribed 
fundraising and while there are challenges 
in the Eurozone countries, we believe our 
continued focus on new products such as 
CD4 and the BRIC markets should result 
in further proﬁtable growth.
Andrew Shepherd
Chief Executive
28 June 2013
–  Feasibility study completed in using a smartphone camera to capture the 
result and then to transmit the result to management centres
–  Feasibility work is promising in scope and applicability in parts of the world 
where Visitect
®
 CD4 is expected to have most impact
–  Removes any operator subjectivity in interpreting results
–  Additional beneﬁts such as disease demographic studies and supply 
chain logistics
–  Further differentiates Omega’s product offering from the competition
Scan results
4
Sync to server
5
Global access to secure 
results and data
6
mHealth technology Cloud database
www.cd4counts.com
