 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
www.omegadiagnostics.com 16
Chief Executive’s Review
Omega Diagnostics: our mission is to improve 
human health and well-being through innovative 
diagnostic tests and global partnerships
I am pleased to report that the Group has seen an 
increase in revenue for the year to £11.12 million, some 
41% ahead of last year’s figures (2011: £7.90 million)  
with like-for-like sales increasing by 5%. 
We are very pleased with the progress the Group  
has made and the business is performing strongly.  
We are also looking forward to significant opportunities 
presented by direct access into the Indian market, the 
launch of a range of allergy tests on the automated 
IDS-iSYS platform and the new prospects that exist that 
could transform the performance within our Infectious 
Disease segment.
 > New Team – In the year we have expanded our 
management team with some talented individuals. 
We now have a senior management team in place 
that can deliver further profitable growth.
 > Focus – We have been careful to limit our strategic 
focus on our three core product segments so that 
our efforts have not been diluted.
 > New products – Our search for new products in our 
strategic areas of activity has led to new opportunities 
that will fuel our growth in future years.
 > Strategy – We continue to refine our strategy in order 
to take advantage of new opportunities.
Allergy/Autoimmune
The Allergy segment has benefited from a full year 
contribution following on from the acquisition of 
Allergopharma’s IVD business in December 2010. Sales 
for Omega Diagnostics GmbH (“Omega GmbH”), our 
German subsidiary, grew by 305% to £3.87 million (2011: 
£0.96 million). On a full like-for-like basis, the growth in 
sales equates to 8%.
The delay in the export of allergy products from  
Omega GmbH, as previously highlighted, has been 
disappointing. This is being addressed through  
a combination of product improvements and amended 
software formats that are more suitable for export 
markets with the aim of validating these products  
to run on automated instruments that are widely  
available in international markets.
Sales of autoimmune tests increased by 5% to £615k 
(2011: £584k). We reported previously that the current 
range of autoimmune test kits were limited to small labs 
with manual test systems. Work has been undertaken 
during the year to revise the kit formats which will allow 
their use on a larger number of automation platforms 
similarly widely available in export markets. This strategy 
will allow our distributors to access larger parts of the 
market and extend the product life cycle.
Food Intolerance
This segment has seen an overall growth in sales  
of 10% to £3.90 million (2011: £3.56 million).
Sales of Genarrayt
®
 reagents have grown to £1.56 million 
(2011: £1.49 million). 13 Genarrayt
®
 systems (2011: 33 
systems) were sold in the year bringing the total global 
placements to 108 systems. System sales revenue 
amounted to £88k (2011: £192k). However, this reduction 
in systems sold was an intentional decision to 
concentrate more on increasing sales traction across the 
installed instrument base. This  
is key to the future success of Genarrayt
®
 and with the 
market reputation gaining momentum we are seeing 
more high quality sales leads develop in key countries as 
they appreciate the power of this innovative technology. 
The Food Detective
®
 test for food intolerance has  
seen a strong sales increase to £980k (2011: £772k).  
The number of countries where we have now sold 
product has continued to increase to 68 (2011: 54) with 
an increase in volumes to 60,782 kits (2011: 41,665).  
The top five markets account for 50% of sales with good 
growth in China and Brazil which fits with the Group’s 
strategic focus on BRIC countries. Product registration in 
China is close to completion and we are hopeful for an 
early conclusion to this process.
Sales of Foodprint
®
 tests through the CNS testing 
laboratory have grown to £0.48 million (2011: £0.33 
million). The testing services for food intolerance and 
other related tests have shown an increase in business  
to £621k (2011: £452k) which has mainly been due to 
increased sales to offshore accounts which send 
samples into the CNS laboratory for testing. Various 
sales initiatives are underway to access large retail 
accounts in the UK and overseas who are interested  
in offering our lab services in order to widen their own 
service portfolio.
With the appointment of Simon Keller there is now a 
more focused approach to targeting the key customer 
groups of nutritionists and associated healthcare 
professionals. 
Progress has continued, albeit slowly, with registration  
of Food Detective
®
 in the United States by our partner 
Toyota Tsusho. The timeline to registration remains 
uncertain but ultimately we believe the potential market 
to be substantial.  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
 www.omegadiagnostics.com 17
SCDI Scotland’s International 
Awards: International Award for 
Innovation in Product or Service 
Development 2011 Omega 
Diagnostics Group PLC. 
Presented by The Rt. Hon.  
Alex Salmond MSP , Scotland’s  
First Minister to Andrew Shepherd, 
Chief Executive.
Infectious Disease/Other
Sales of infectious disease tests reduced by 2% to £2.75 
million (2011: £2.80 million). The market for the current 
range still remains highly competitive which goes to 
show that to increase sales in this sector in the future 
requires a step change in activity and focus. 
Omega has been active in the IVD market, and specifically 
the infectious disease arena, for the last 25 years and 
has built up an enviable contact base which drives new 
opportunities. From discussions earlier in the year two 
new product opportunities came into focus which could 
lead to substantial future growth. The Group has 
exclusively in-licensed two test technologies from the 
Burnet Institute, a leading Australian medical research 
and public health organisation focused on improving  
the health of disadvantaged and marginalised groups. 
The first in-licensed technology is a novel POC 
technology for CD4 testing at field level where current 
CD4 tests are unable to operate. Quantifying CD4 T-cells 
is a vital component to the management and care of HIV 
patients and is required to assess their candidacy for 
antiretroviral treatment (ART) as treatment begins once 
their count falls below 350 cells/μl, and to monitor their 
health during treatment every three to six months.  
This equates to a huge potential market as there is a 
growing demand for CD4 testing based on the number 
of individuals requiring to be placed on ART therapy but 
are as yet unidentified due to their rural location and/or 
lack of access to health facilities.
The second exclusive licence is for a POC test for 
detecting active Syphilis infection which is a major  
public health problem in developing countries. Although 
simple, reliable and affordable rapid tests for Syphilis  
are available, many of which are already produced by  
the Group, the Burnet test is the first POC test to make 
the important diagnostic distinction between active and 
past treated infections. Syphilis remains a major cause  
of stillbirth and neonatal death in many developing 
countries so this test is very important for screening 
pregnant women and identifying those patients requiring 
treatment of congenital Syphilis.
Subject to successful technology transfer processes, 
these tests have the potential to transform the Group’s 
performance in this segment. The CD4 test, branded  
as VISITECT CD4, will be officially launched at the  
19th International AIDS Conference, AIDS 2012,  
in Washington DC, USA on 22-27 July 2012.
Distribution Network 
Growth has been recorded in most geographic regions of 
the world with the exception of the UK which reduced by 
3% to £933k (2011: £958k) and the Asia/Far East region 
which dropped by 3% to £1.32 million (2011: £1.35 million). 
These reductions were more than offset by good growth 
in Africa/Middle East with sales rising by 11% to £1.63 
million (2011: £1.47 million) and in the European market by 
sales rising 86% to £6.5 million (2011: £3.5 million) as a 
result of a full year of revenue from our German subsidiary 
and strong performance with key users of the Genarrayt
®
 
Food Intolerance products. Sales to South/Central 
America rose by 22% to £441k (2011: £361k).
BRIC strategy
In the year, we have further concentrated our efforts on 
expanding our business in the BRIC group of countries 
and we have met with some success in three out of the 
four target countries. In Brazil we increased sales by 
18% overall across the Group achieving sales of £259k 
(2011: £220k), in Russia we increased sales by 76%  
to £150k (2011: £85k) and in China we increased sales  
by 22% to £118k (2011: £97k). India showed a decline  
of 19% with sales of £402k (2011: £499k) which was due 
to the fact that the then distributor started to promote  
the products through a catalogue selling operation as 
opposed to a representative-based sales model which 
we know to be proven and successful in the Indian 
market. This change only served to reinforce our 
decision to move to selling direct in India and we  
expect the decline to be reversed. 
Financial  
Statements Governance
Business  
Review
Making  
Progress Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
www.omegadiagnostics.com 18
Ofﬁcial opening of Omega Dx 
(Asia) Ofﬁce on 28 January 2012
Following the establishment of our wholly owned  
Indian subsidiary in July 2011 a lot of effort has gone  
into making the plan become a reality. The inauguration 
ceremony of the new office in Mumbai took place at  
the end of January 2012 and since then, the core 
management team has been working hard to establish 
the office and internal procedures in readiness for the 
changeover from the current distributor. There has also 
been a lot of work involved with product registrations 
and employing the key members of staff required to  
run an India-wide sales operation. The result is that the 
Group will commence direct selling operations into the 
Indian market on 1 July 2012. Early pre-marketing activity 
has been successful in making the market aware of  
our change in distribution and early signs of future 
commercial success are encouraging.
Over the past few months, discussions have also been 
taking place with other IVD companies with a view to 
representing them in the Indian market. Early stage 
indications are that several new product ranges will be 
added to the Group’s own product offerings. However, 
due to the lengthy registration process, the impact  
of third party sales will be minimal in the current  
financial year. 
Research and development
Allergy/Autoimmune
Development of the allergy test panel on the IDS-iSYS 
automated system is progressing well. All key raw 
materials (allergen extracts, monoclonal antibodies  
and patient samples) made available as a result of  
our acquisition of the allergy IVD business have 
demonstrated proven value in the project. An initial 
tranche of eight allergens were used to demonstrate the 
overall technical feasibility of our intended approach and 
we are encouraged by the performance achieved to date. 
We compared our prototype with a leading commercial 
automated test and with other available manual tests. 
Our prototype correlated well with the automated test 
and it was found to be superior to all manual tests.  
Six of these eight allergens are moving through 
optimisation and there has been significant progress in 
understanding how raw materials and process factors 
impact the performance of others. A start has been 
made to a second group of 18 allergens and we remain 
confident that the program is on track for initial launch of 
between 40-50 allergy tests in Q4 of the current financial 
year. To this end we now have a suite of four IDS-iSYS 
instruments commissioned and committed to the project 
and the team has been augmented with a new project 
leader who brings 14 years of product development 
experience gained at Hycor, which is one of the major 
allergy IVD companies. We look forward to reporting 
continued progress over the remainder of the year.
With regard to a multiplex platform, we have continued  
to review and evaluate market requirements for allergen 
specific IgE testing in multiplex and Rapid Test formats. 
The attributes of conventional Rapid Test technology are 
well suited to this aim and further work on this development 
is expected to be carried out in the year ahead.
Outlook
The outlook for the new financial year is very encouraging 
with good growth potential across all segments of  
the business. The addition of the new test technologies 
licensed in from the Burnet Institute should allow us  
to make a major impact in Global Health markets as  
these tests satisfy a current unmet clinical demand.
While there continues to be difficulties in the Eurozone 
countries, we believe our robust and diversified business 
model, BRIC-focused strategy and focus on new 
products not affected by these issues hold us in good 
stead for continued and profitable growth.
Andrew Shepherd
Chief Executive
29 June 2012
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
