 14_OPG Power Ventures Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
 
Chief Executive’s 
Statement
Milestone year provides solid 
platform for growth
The year ended 31 March 2011 was a 
landmark year for OPG, with the successful 
commissioning of the Group’s first major 
project of 77 MW. The Chennai I plant is 
now operating consistently at load factors 
of around 90%, providing strong cash flow 
to the Group and underpinning our track 
record of successful project delivery.
The over-subscribed equity raising of c.£60m 
(gross of transaction fees) in February 2011 
demonstrated support from the Company’s 
stakeholders and provides capital to fund 
a 629 MW pipeline of projects under 
construction and development. Combined 
with the 113 MW of existing operational 
capacity, this total pipeline has increased 
substantially from the initial 377 MW that 
we committed to at our IPO in May 2008. 
We remain on track to deliver our target 
of 1,250 MW of capacity by 2015.
Profitable operations and 
strong cash generation
Output levels and operations at Chennai I 
were successfully stabilised in August 2010 
and the plant’s operational performance 
has been in line with expectations. In the six 
months to June this year, the plant performed 
at an average monthly output level of c.85%.
Profit before tax was up 105% to £11.16m, 
benefiting from a partial contribution 
from Chennai I which began commercial 
operations in August 2010. OPG’s strong 
results for the year ended March 2011 are 
reflective of the Group captive/open market 
sales strategy and the profit from continuing 
operations at 39% of Revenue is among 
the highest in the industry. Average price 
realised for the year was Rs 4.95/KWh.
In line with our stated strategy, we intend 
to continue to utilise cash generated from 
operations principally to fund growth 
and optimisation opportunities.
Projects remain on-track 
despite local challenges
The Group’s current total capacity stands 
at 113 MW (inclusive of the additional 6 MW 
of capacity recently added to the gas fired 
power station at Mayavaram), a significant 
increase from the 19.4 MW of operating 
capacity at the time of the IPO in May 
2008. The Chennai development projects 
are progressing well; the accelerated 
commissioning of the second 77 MW unit 
(Chennai II) for 2012 is set to increase the 
Group’s total operating capacity to 190 
MW and further progressive increases are 
expected thereafter to achieve 742 MW by 
2013. Some local objections faced in the 
wake of environmental clearances for the 300 
MW Kutch project are now under resolution 
and we are awaiting formal approval from 
the Ministry of Environment and Forests, 
New Delhi. The project, which is fully funded, 
remains on track for commissioning in 2013.
Also during the year, OPG signed an MoU 
with the Government of Gujarat to build 5,400 
MW of capacity by 2018. Details of specific 
projects and an implementation schedule are 
currently in development and we look forward 
to reporting on further progress in due course.
During the year and since then, the Group 
continues to operate in an environment 
of elevated coal prices, administrative 
challenges in obtaining key approvals and 
higher interest costs. However, relative to 
our peer group we believe our margins and 
our continued growth demonstrate that the 
Group is well positioned to deal with such 
challenges through our local relationships and 
the flexibility incorporated into our business 
model and plant configurations. We have 
also incorporated key lessons from previous 
developments into subsequent projects 
and as a result we continue to be confident 
that the Company can deliver a profitable 
growth pipeline on time and within budget.
Mr Arvind Gupta
Managing Director and CEO
Project commissioning schedule (MW)
Calendar Year Total MW 2012 2013 2014 2015
Operations
Mayavaram 26
Waste heat 10
Chennai I 77
Development
Chennai II 77 77
Chennai III 160 160
Chennai IV 80 80
Bellary 12 12
Gujarat 300 300
Pipeline
Pipeline 508 508
Cumulative capacity 1,250 190 742 742 1,250 OPG Power Ventures Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011_15 
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Indian power market remains in deficit
Despite volatility elsewhere in the global 
economy, India’s GDP is expected to continue 
to grow at around 8% in the coming years, 
resulting in annual power demand growth of 
10%. India’s total planned capacity additions 
as at 31 March 2011 were only 52% of the 
targeted 78,000 MW and there remains an 
expected shortfall of 30–35% versus the target 
by March 2012. This trend points towards 
continuing and increasing power production 
deficits which currently run at about 10%.
With the planned additional supply likely 
to fall acutely short of the 300–315 GW 
required over the next five years and 
given the imperative for a correction in 
pricing by state utilities, we believe this 
supply constrained environment will prevail 
and power prices will remain firm.
OPG maintains flexibility in 
its procurement of coal
70% of OPG’s projects under development 
have committed supplies of Indian coal, with 
the remaining 30% utilising imported coal. 
This balance of supply has enabled OPG to 
establish close working relationships with 
both domestic and imported coal suppliers, 
thereby mitigating the threat of coal not 
being available from any one source.
Summary
OPG has made significant progress in the 
year, successfully commissioning the 77 
MW Chennai I facility, producing significant 
increases in both revenue and profits. In the 
current year we expect to benefit from its full 
year contribution albeit in an environment 
of high coal prices and borrowing costs. 
We expect our operating model to provide 
flexibility with regards to these challenges. 
Most importantly we believe the profitable 
operation of Chennai I in 2011 creates a 
firm platform for the Company’s long-term 
growth. Accordingly, we feel confident about 
the delivery of our 2015 target of 1,250 MW.
Arvind Gupta
12 August 2011
With coal in relatively short supply, the 
Indian power sector has unsurprisingly 
experienced upward price pressure for this 
key input to the power business. Most Indian 
power producers, unlike OPG, are reliant on 
obtaining coal either from the development 
of coal blocks or entirely on imported coal. In 
addition, the design of OPG’s boilers allows 
the use of both high moisture imported and 
higher ash domestic grades of coal either 
exclusively or in a blended fuel source. 
We expect coal prices to remain firm in 
the short term given the current economic 
growth rates in Asia, although prices should 
eventually stabilise in the medium term 
as coal supplies and demand fall more 
into line. The Company continues to look 
for additional opportunities to enhance 
profitability by optimising its fuel procurement.
Team
Our priority is to provide a safe, healthy 
working environment for employees 
and be responsible towards the 
communities in which we operate.
Our talented team is central to achieving the 
objectives of the Company. Over the last 
year the team has built upon its significant 
experience and knowledge in developing and 
operating power plants as evidenced by the 
high load factors being achieved at Chennai I 
and the continued progression and expansion 
of the Company’s growth pipeline. We value 
their commitment and contribution and would 
like to thank them for their continued efforts.
