 12    OPG Power Ventures Plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Chairman’s statement
We are now a recognised growing 
player in the electricity sector  
at a time when India has a new 
government that has vocalised  
its commitment to the sector.
By any measure your Company has 
delivered a solid performance this year. 
Operational metrics are ahead of industry 
norms and projects have been delivered 
on or ahead of time and within budget. 
This performance means we have nearly 
300 MW of generation capacity that can 
operate throughout the year and this in 
turn gives us the confidence to state 
clearly our intentions as to the timing of 
commencement of dividend payments. 
My colleagues and I on the Board are 
immensely pleased about this. 
There is of course further work to be done. 
The Company has two major projects 
heading towards commissioning that are 
expected to take total generation capacity 
to over 700 MW in just a matter of months. 
Both projects are on track and as a result 
management have also been charting the 
next phase of the Company’s growth, 
further details of which should be 
forthcoming in due course. 
This is a special time to be introducing new 
projects in our sector in India. A new 
government has been elected recently with 
a substantial majority and whilst it’s early 
days since its formation, the new prime 
minister, Mr Narendra Modi, has made 
plain the crucial role that the power sector 
is to play in the nation’s growth. In our 
view this bodes well for all types and sizes 
of power generation projects as the 
country’s dramatic energy needs cannot 
be serviced by any one or two fuel source 
alone. As has been much publicised in 
India again in the recent summer months, 
almost every area of the country has an 
unquenched shortage of electricity. The 
sector thus requires investment and we 
expect the trend of supportive policies to 
continue apace.
On our part, the Company must thus 
remain committed towards pursuing 
its unbroken record of profitability and 
delivering continuous growth in this 
critical sector of the Indian economy. 
I must thank the Company’s management 
and staff for their teamwork and dedication 
all of which is bearing fruit to the Company 
and I’m equally thankful to my colleagues 
on the Board and to shareholders for their 
unwavering support. 
We look forward to further substantial 
progress in the Company’s activities 
next year. 
M C Gupta
Chairman
20 May 2014  13    OPG Power Ventures Plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements
http://www.opgpower.com
“ The Company has two major projects 
heading towards commissioning that 
are expected to take total generation 
capacity to 750 MW in just a matter 
of months.”
Air Cooled Condenser (‘ACC’) under construction and water storage at Chennai IV
