 10_OPG Power Ventures Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
 
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report on a landmark 
year for your Company that witnessed the 
commissioning and optimisation of our 
first major project, the 77 MW Chennai I. 
Revenue of £33.15m compared with 
£11.52m in 2010 whilst earnings per 
share grew by over 500% in line with the 
dramatic change in our generation capacity 
from 30 MW in 2010 to 113 MW in 2011. 
Notably, for a company that focuses on 
building shareholder value, our margins 
have been amongst the highest in our 
Indian peer group of independent electricity 
generators despite the highly publicised 
inflationary pressures affecting our industry. 
Consequently the Company’s cash position 
of £79.95m has enabled us to maintain 
gearing levels at just -24% and to look forward 
with confidence to investing in growth. 
We progressed the development of all our 
projects during the year and have recently 
announced an acceleration of Chennai II 
as well as the addition of another replica 
80 MW unit at Chennai such that we now 
have 317 MW of brownfield projects under 
development at Chennai out of a total of 629 
MW Company-wide projects under full-swing 
development for commissioning by 2013. 
On this basis, we continue to maintain our 
targeted capacity of 1,250 MW by 2015. 
The Company continues to benefit from 
a structural shortage in supply of reliable 
power in India. With the planned additional 
supply likely to fall acutely short of the 
300–315 GW by 2017 required in the next 
five years, we believe this dynamic will 
prevail and prices will remain firm.
The demand outlook for power in India has 
its foundation in the Government’s projected 
economic growth for the country of c8% 
pa. India emerged from the 2008–2009 
global financial crisis with a strong domestic 
economy and rapidly accelerating industrial 
production. As a result, demand or more 
realistically, the need, for infrastructure 
development has been and we expect shall 
continue to be a key area of policy focus. 
This development needs to weather 
the compounding challenges of raw 
material inflation, consumer price 
inflation leading to the tightening of 
monetary policy and the accumulated 
losses of State electricity boards. 
Chennai Plant Switch Yard
Overview of the 10 MW waste 
heat plant in Chennai
With this backdrop, our strategy needs 
to continue unabated with a focus on 
optimising the performance of our generation 
assets, migrating the learning experience 
from building these assets in upcoming 
developments and to continually de-risk 
and deliver our largely brownfield growth 
portfolio. One important aspect of this is 
the need to retain our ability to be flexible 
with regard to fuel procurement rather than 
to be greatly exposed to a small number 
of possible fuel sources. We embrace the 
challenges of developing projects in such 
a fast-growth economy as we believe our 
model of operating flexible, high-margin, 
standalone units positions us well in doing so. 
The Board wishes to record its thanks to the 
Company’s shareholders for their support 
during our over-subscribed £60m equity 
raising earlier this calendar year as well 
as to its financing and technical partners 
and customers for their vital contribution 
to the Company’s continued progress. 
I’d like to make a special mention of the 
dedication and hard work of our team 
since our IPO in May 2008. We are now 
beginning to taste the fruit of all this effort. 
As I’ve no doubt such commitment will 
continue I am able to conclude that the 
Company’s profitability and cash generation 
now provide an excellent platform for our 
long-term growth. I remain confident of 
the Company’s continued success. 
M C Gupta
12 August 2011
Mr Munish Gupta
Non-executive Chairman OPG Power Ventures Plc Annual Report 2011_11 
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
