 14    OPG Power Ventures Plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Chief Executive’s review
I am delighted to be able to report to you 
at the end of a year in which we have 
achieved another step change in the scale 
of the business. Rupee revenues grew 
from Rs 4.8bn to Rs 9.5bn versus a year 
earlier and pre-tax profits rose from 
Rs 0.9bn to Rs 1.8bn over the same period. 
When translated into Sterling some of that 
growth appears lost due to last year’s 
sharp currency slide but £17.95m of 
pre-tax earnings represents a creditable 
70% growth upon the previous year.
Operational performance ahead  
of expectations and above Indian  
peer group
Our strong results this year were the 
consequence of our generation assets 
operating at a high level of utilisation. 
At an average of 96% our plant utilisation 
compares to a national average for thermal 
plants of 80–85% (even when the oldest 
inefficient plants are removed from the 
comparison). We believe that our Chennai 
site is now one of India’s top five power 
generation stations measured by utilisation 
levels, for which I congratulate both our 
development and operations teams. 
For the year ahead, in spite of a full 
maintenance shutdown to be taken in 
June 2014 we expect utilisation of these 
operating assets to continue to be strong 
versus the national average.
No stoppages due to coal shortages
We continue to receive domestic coal 
supplies in line with our expectations, 
supplies for Chennai II having commenced 
during the year under review. In order to 
supplement our needs we have continued 
to adopt a strategy of purchasing imported 
coal on contract with a major Indonesian 
miner in addition to spot market 
purchasing. This strategy serves us well 
particularly as international coal markets 
remain relatively subdued and consensus 
forecasts imply stability in months to come 
and at this time we see no need to alter 
this strategy. I am also pleased to report 
we recorded yet another year with no 
stoppages in power generation on account 
of coal shortage.
Flexibility is key in weathering short 
and long-term foreign exchange 
impacts
This year we saw some unusually sharp 
volatility in exchange rates between the 
Rupee and USD. Having started the year in 
April at Rs 54.50, the currency weakened 
dramatically to around Rs 68, albeit for 
just a few days and has progressively 
strengthened to approximately Rs 59 since 
then. Our early delivery of Chennai III, 
strong operating performance and margins 
enabled us to weather the effects of this 
period. Supportively, the Reserve Bank of 
India has outlined the country’s readiness 
to deal with tapering in overseas money 
supply and consensus expectations 
suggest the Rupee is largely likely to stay 
close to its current levels in the year ahead.
In the light of such currency volatility, we 
were additionally pleased to secure a 
15-year contract with Tamil Nadu state for 
74 MW, which is more or less the extent of 
the output from any one of the operating 
units from our operating Chennai units at 
an attractive tariff with significant foreign 
exchange protection built in. As this 
contract is based on imported coal, 
this long-term variable tariff (‘LTVT’) 
arrangement provides us with a degree of 
hedging on the aforementioned quantity 
of supply. In portfolio terms we, therefore, 
have a long-term partial hedge in place 
for part of our operating capacity which 
should improve the visibility and volatility of 
cash flows. Having flexibility at the core of 
our revenue model enabled us to secure 
this opportunity. 15    OPG Power Ventures Plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements
http://www.opgpower.com
“We believe that our Chennai site is now one of India’s top 
five power generation stations measured by utilisation 
levels, for which I congratulate both our development and 
operations teams.”
Projects on track, potential expansion 
of Chennai IV
I am pleased to report that together 
with our suppliers at Chennai IV we have 
identified the potential to increase the scale 
of this development by 20 MW without 
altering the project delivery timeline. 
We are anticipating the final paperwork 
and clearances for this expansion to be 
in place within just a few weeks.
We now have 480 MW of projects that 
we are endeavouring to deliver during 
the current financial year and despite the 
challenges of establishing projects in India 
we remain on track to achieve this goal.
Given the progress that the Company 
has made the Board expects to declare a 
maiden dividend following the successful 
and sustainable profitable operation of the 
new 480 MW of capacity.
During the year we spent £128m on 
advancing our capital projects, more than 
any previous period, and we have around 
£51m earmarked to complete the projects 
with some of the remaining milestones 
including hydraulic testing of Chennai IV, 
the completion of transmission lines 
external to the Gujarat plant and the 
assembly of the turbine generator at 
both projects.
Once completed, these developments 
will yield us a portfolio comprising several 
operating units across two key strategic 
locations – 450 MW in the South and 
300 MW in the West.
Additional growth
Our focus remains on delivering our existing 
projects, as referenced in our interim 
results, announced on 21 November 2013, 
we continue to study further opportunities 
for investment and growth based on the 
core existing skill set within our team. Any 
study of India’s current and future energy 
needs illustrates the substantial need for 
power generation from a variety of sources 
and whilst we focus on India as our 
geographic market, we believe that a 
sensible long-term strategy is for us to 
carve out an important role within the 
country’s energy mix.
Straightforward capital structure 
provides additional flexibility 
and savings
We expect our LTVT to facilitate us in 
remaining ahead on our scheduled debt 
repayments and to have buffer borrowing 
capacity in case we desire it. With relatively 
high interest costs in India, our current 
levels of prepayments on Group borrowing 
facilities yields around £700,000 of pre-tax 
annual savings.
All of our debt is currently in Rupees 
and we are still expecting debt levels to 
maximise at around Rs 25bn towards the 
end of FY15, representing a manageable 
gearing level.
We are maturing and recognise the 
need to implement continuous 
improvement
As we continue to mature we’ve 
introduced new and improved safety and 
environmental practices into our operating 
culture. We now have a compulsory 
incident reporting standard and collect 
and monitor Total Reported Injury data. 
We also record ‘near miss’ incidents. 
On our environmental monitoring too we 
have made advances, such as providing 
regulatory authorities with real-time feed 
of our monitoring data. These and other 
operating initiatives were recognised this 
year with the achievement of OHSAS 
accreditation for occupational health 
and safety and ISO for total quality 
implementation at our flagship Chennai I 
unit. Furthermore, we saw several project 
improvement initiatives developed that 
we believe have saved us significant 
man-hours during project execution 
including the recent implementation of 
SAP enterprise resource planning across 
many of our business processes.
I personally want to see a continuous 
improvement culture take full hold of 
every aspect of our business so we 
can constantly give our shareholders 
developments to be proud of.
We remain confident of the 
Company’s long-term prospects
As India now prepares to welcome the 
initiatives of a new government, the 
widespread vibe is for economic growth  
to trend upwards. The power sector is 
likely to have to play a crucial part of 
growth oriented government policies as 
power in India is much needed for the 
growth to occur. With our new projects 
being delivered to service this requirement 
we remain confident of the Company’s 
long-term growth and prospects. In the 
shorter term, we anticipate supportive  
tariff structures and other policy initiatives 
to develop over the coming months  
but for average tariffs in Tamil Nadu in 
particular to remain broadly unchanged  
in the meantime.
The Board and I are extremely grateful to 
our team as a result of which I once again 
have had much news to share with you 
in this review – they’ve delivered a solid 
performance in all key areas.
Arvind Gupta
Chief Executive Officer
20 May 2014 
