 Transformational growth
Chairman’s statement
10
OPG Power Ventures Plc
Annual Report + Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
The Group has grown substantially during the 
period in scale, performance and confidence. 
We have navigated the difficult trading 
conditions that the electricity sector in India,  
in general, has experienced courtesy of our 
flexible business model and through the 
delivery of our projects.
I am pleased to report that these annual results mark 
another year of all round progress in terms of both trading 
and new projects under development. Viewed in the 
context of the variable and mixed performance of the power 
sector in India in general, the consistent record of growth 
and profitability returned by your Company over the last five 
years underscores the soundness of our delivery 
capabilities and of our focus. 
Economic growth in India continues to be a healthy 5%, 
albeit lower than the 6–8 % of the previous years. This 
somewhat reduced growth rate needs to be seen in the 
context of both the current overall economic slowdown 
worldwide and the fact that this country, in the years since 
1980, has not missed a single year of economic growth. 
The power sector in India has achieved much in the last ten 
years in terms of capacity addition but still more remains to 
be achieved. A commendable increase in new capacity of 
115.47 GW (2003–2013) still results in power deficits of 
between 10 and 20% in different states across the country. 
The underlying, structural issue of low tariffs charged by the 
dominant, state owned producers is now being addressed 
in earnest with several state utilities having carried out two 
revisions of tariffs since April 2012. This process of making 
tariff regimes more realistic will ensure both better pricing 
for power suppliers and improved financial health for the 
utilities, factors that will contribute to further growth in 
the sector.
The power transmission system in the country will soon 
operate in a synchronous, seamless mode when the 
southern grid is fully integrated with the rest of the network 
in 2014. This will not only be among the largest in the world, 
supporting a total system throughput of more than 200 GW, 
but will result in a single, integral power market for the 
country as a whole.
In this overall context, the timely realisation of OPG’s 
new projects is of long term importance and I note 
with satisfaction that, in the nine months to June 2013, 
we brought two further plants at the Chennai site into 
generation. Given the progress achieved in the construction 
of both the 160 MW unit at Chennai and the 2 x 150 MW 
units at Kutch, these units should be in revenue within the 
indicated timelines if not somewhat earlier.
Whilst our present focus is on timely commissioning of the 
Chennai 160 MW and Kutch 2 x 150 MW units, further 
growth options, and the timing of these, are under 
continuous review. We believe that the critical mass and 
cash flows to be achieved with a capacity of 700 MW will 
sustain us on this growth path.
It being very much the case that every day is a new day  
in the power business, I must thank the employees  
and management at all levels for their dedication and 
performance which have contributed to the progress of  
the Company. I am equally thankful to my colleagues on  
the Board and to our shareholders who have supported  
us always.
I am pleased to be able to point, in conclusion, to two 
factors that characterise the Company’s performance and 
its trading environment. Firstly, the Group is on course to 
transform into an operator of significant capacity, with the 
two current projects well under way. Secondly, policy 
makers are giving increasing emphasis on addressing some 
of the constraints in the sector such as tariff levels, coal 
availability and transmission throughput. I look forward to 
another year of progress. 
M C Gupta
20 June 2013
M C Gupta
Chairman  11
OPG Power Ventures Plc
Annual Report + Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
  Plants in operation
77 MW Chennai I
77 MW Chennai II
80 MW Chennai III
25.4 MW Mayavaram
10 MW Waste heat
  Plants in development
160 MW Chennai IV
300 MW Gujarat
OUR OPERATIONS
We are a producer of thermal power 
with a current operating capacity of 
270 MW. A further 460 MW is under 
construction or development with 
all of this capacity scheduled to 
come on-stream by 2014.
 > Listed on AIM
 > One operating asset of 20 MW 
 > Total portfolio of 357 MW under construction
 > Revenue £11.5m in FY2010
 > Outsourced engineering, procurement and 
construction operations
 > Three plants and 270 MW under operation
 > 460 MW under construction
 > Equity funds raised £120m to date
 > Revenue £56m
 > In house design, procurement and 
construction team
 > HSE committee – ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001
2008
MIl ESTONES AchIE vE d 2013
INDIA
Gujarat
Chennai I, II, III, Waste heat
Chennai IV
Mayavaram
