 12
OPG Power Ventures Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
We are confident that OPG remains on track to achieve 
its target of over 700 MW of capacity. Our focus 
remains on maximising the performance of our assets 
and de-risking our projects.
Chief Executive’s Statement
Strong operational performance
Returns on our flagship asset prove the business model. 
View of the Chennai site showing Chennai I and ongoing construction 13
OPG Power Ventures Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
The year ended 31 March 2012 has been characterised 
by strong operational performance of the Company’s 
flagship asset and rapid de-risking of projects despite a 
challenging trading environment which is now beginning 
to show signs of recovery. I am pleased to provide a 
summary of our results and major operational events 
during the year as well as a discussion of our trading 
environment. Our focus remains on maximising the 
performance of our assets and de-risking our projects.
Returns on our flagship asset prove the 
business model 
Revenue was up 37% to £45.25m and income from 
continuing operations before period expenses on 
projects, exceptional and non-cash items and tax was 
£9.6m. These figures reflect a reduced contribution 
during the period from the 26 MW and 10 MW legacy 
plants notwithstanding a strong showing from the 
Chennai I – 77 MW, in its first full year of operations, with 
revenues up 78%, a gross profit contribution of £12.56m 
and gross margin of 33%, similar to last year at 36%. 
Chennai I, for which we raised equity as part of our IPO  
in May 2008, has consistently delivered a load factor of 
92% throughout the year. The pre-tax return on equity  
of this project during 2012 was just under 50%, making  
it one of the most profitable generation units in India.  
Our balance sheet has net debt of £31.59m at the year 
end representing a gearing of 19%.
Increased revenues compared with the prior year 
reflected the operation of Chennai I for the whole of the 
year. In addition, OPG demonstrated that its flexible 
Group captive model secures optimum market prices  
for the Company’s power. Average tariffs achieved of  
Rs 4.93/KWh were similar to the prior year Rs 4.95/KWh 
and at the time of writing, following the regulated tariff 
changes announced in April 2012, the Tamil Nadu 
Electricity Board has filed an application with the state 
regulator which would enable them to purchase a large 
proportion of generation from our Chennai I and II at 
between Rs 5.30 and Rs 5.70/KWh from July 2012 
onwards. Had the Company’s model been to sell power 
on a typical long-term Power Purchase Agreement it 
would not have been in line to benefit from these much 
needed changes in the tariff structure.
Gross margins remained healthy at 33% and the 
fuel-flexibility of Chennai I in particular enabled us to 
maintain our load factors and gross margins in the wake 
of increased average international coal prices. The sharp 
appreciation of the US Dollar against the Indian Rupee 
exacerbated the effect of rising coal prices further in 
Rupee terms. Notably, capital equipment purchases  
are principally denominated in Indian Rupees and 
accordingly projects remained within budget although 
interest costs were higher than expected due to several 
increases in rates during the year. The translation and 
presentation of our results is also adversely affected by 
the circa 10% depreciation of the Rupee against Sterling 
during the year. 
A fuller analysis of operating and profit performance, 
highlighting the strong contributions from Chennai I,  
is provided in the financial review.
Accelerated growth
At the time of writing, the 77 MW Chennai-II project,  
an accelerated replica of Chennai I, which has been 
connected to the infrastructure that it shares with its 
operational twin unit, is undergoing full scale early 
commissioning. In the space of a few weeks OPG  
should be a 190 MW generating company, compared  
to 20 MW at IPO just over four years ago. 
We announced during the year that our use of the 
Company’s Chennai site has been expanded by the 
combination of two 80 MW projects (now 160 MW 
Chennai III) making way for the development of a new  
80 MW project on the same site (Chennai IV). Despite 
being a young company the profitability of our business 
model has enabled us to fund the equity for Chennai IV 
from internal cash flows and not revert to shareholders, 
thereby accelerating potential returns on capital.
Construction has progressed at our 300 MW Gujarat 
project site with boiler foundations nearly complete  
and progressive deliveries of equipment on site having 
commenced. Although the Company had obtained  
the necessary environmental approvals, these were 
challenged before the National Green Tribunal which 
upheld the clearances given. Notwithstanding this,  
the Company has now decided to further exceed 
requirements by adopting an air-cooled cooling process 
as opposed to water cooling. Accordingly neither the 
pipeline nor the inlet that had been the primary basis of  14
OPG Power Ventures Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
the failed challenges will remain as part of the project 
development plan. Our legal advisers confirm that all 
approvals for moving to air-cooled cooling are in place and 
whilst our EPC contractors advise that commissioning is 
more likely to be by H2 2014 we are pleased to report that 
the project budget is not being modified. 
Minority owned plants
It has been decided, on a comprehensive consideration 
of the matter, to deconsolidate from Group accounts, 
effective 1 December 2011, the results of the two minority 
owned, legacy plants (the 26 MW Mayavaram unit and 
the 10 MW Waste Heat unit). As we outlined at the time 
we released our interim results in December 2011, the 
performance and contributions from these minority 
owned plants is negligible and, in reaching this decision, 
we also took into account their business and earnings 
outlook, the increasingly marginal contributions from 
these assets in the light of the scaling up of the majority 
owned assets and, especially, the management time 
required to be invested in the running of these units.
Accordingly, a fair valuation of these assets as at 
30 November 2011 by independent valuers, as required 
by the accounting standards, was undertaken and the 
resulting non-cash, non-operating adjustment of £4.82m 
to their carrying value as at that date, applicable to the 
Company, charged to period revenue. The declared 
results reflect this charge after taking into account the 
earnings from these units for the first eight months of  
the year. 
Henceforth, the Group’s interests in these units will be 
treated as investments at the adjusted carrying value of 
£1.38m. This compares with the original outlay by the 
Group of a modest £0.05m in these plants.
No problems with coal supply
OPG received all committed supplies of coal under Indian 
linkages supplemented by imported coal from Asia, 
largely under contract. 
OPG’s plants are engineered to work with either higher 
ash Indian coal or high moisture Indonesian coal or a 
blend of the two. Such design specification provides 
OPG with flexibility at times of either shortage in Indian 
coal supplies or increased prices of imported coal. Most 
other Indian power producers are reliant on obtaining 
coal either from the development of coal blocks allotted 
to them, which are currently substantially delayed, or 
entirely on imported coal. Moreover Chennai I uses a 
lower energy coal for which demand is typically not as 
high, and therefore prices not as elastic, as some of the 
higher quality Indonesian or Australian coals, thus enabling 
us to support our margins. Being located in proximity to 
the coast means we do not suffer inland transportation 
costs to the same degree as inland producers. 
While international coal prices have softened in recent 
weeks we expect prices to trend upwards in the medium-
term as coal supplies and demand fall more into line.
Macro case remains intact and the tariff 
environment is showing signs of improvement
Indian GDP registered an increase of 6.5% for the year to 
March 2012. Whilst less than the 7 .5 to 8% growth rates 
of the previous two years, this is still an appreciable 
performance given the European debt issues and other 
problems of the world economy. The lower growth 
figures may be attributed in part to a tighter monetary 
and exchange policy stance with consequent increases 
in interest and exchange rates. There are indications that 
this policy is being relaxed and GDP growth expectations 
for the current year are 6.5%.
The 11th Five Year Plan period closed on 31 March 2012 
with increase in power capacity of 55 GW, a near 70% 
achievement compared with the target of 78 GW. The 
persistent shortfall in new capacity additions has only 
exacerbated the prevailing power deficits, with peak 
deficits above 12%.
Against this need to rebalance demand and supply,  
state utilities, constituting the country’s dominant power 
producers and distributors, have held their price lines for 
the sale of power virtually static in the last several years 
notwithstanding fuel availability and cost pressures that 
became especially acute last year. This affected margins 
for all private power producers and tempered the 
incentive to make large scale fresh investments in the 
sector.
There is now increased recognition on the part of the 
regulators and the utilities of the need to charge realistic 
prices for electricity. This recognition has already 
translated into a recent 35% increase in Tamil Nadu tariffs 
as well as in the imposition of a fuel price adjustment 
mechanism and the resolve to review tariffs annually. 
Similar exercises have either been concluded or have 
been taken up for review across the country.
Looking ahead, however, there are signs that the long 
awaited structural changes in the sector, primarily in the 
form of realistic tariffs and pricing by the utilities, are 
under way. Given the stretched financial position of the 
state utilities, the central regulator has directed state 
regulators to ensure that tariffs are reviewed annually. 
Several state utilities have already, in the last few weeks, 
filed applications with their state regulators for significant 
tariff increases.
Chief Executive’s 
Statement 
continued 15
OPG Power Ventures Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Summary and outlook
Overall FY2012 saw OPG deliver earnings per share  
of 0.072 pence per share, on an enlarged equity base  
of 351 million ordinary shares and progressing all its 
projects in a challenging trading environment in which 
most of our peers incurred losses and deferred projects.
With the continuing maturing of our capacities, we are 
confident that OPG remains on track to achieve its target 
of over 700 MW of capacity. Now, with aspects of our 
trading environment showing signs of recovery and 
should these persist, we look forward to the forthcoming 
commissioning of Chennai II and the completion of 
construction of Chennai IV in the coming year, as these 
will be important milestones in establishing a stable, 
multi-asset revenue platform from which to deliver 
leading returns to shareholders.
Arvind Gupta
30 June 2012
Tariffs charged to industrial customers under the Group 
captive model are correlated to state utility rates and  
are therefore expected to rise along with the utility  
tariff increases.
Our business and our team are maturing
Over the last two years, OPG has strengthened its own 
in-house management capabilities. At the time of our IPO, 
we were a young company with a fleet of independent 
consultants and companies leading many aspects of  
our project implementation, development and operation. 
OPG now has 280 employees, many of whom carry  
out functions that were in the past out-sourced such as 
our new in-house EPC division that completes balance 
plant construction and our in-house Operations and 
Maintenance teams. Further we have now formalised our 
Health & Safety Environment Committee of the Board. 
We have also instituted a management Executive 
Committee and our initiatives to support and interact  
with communities in and around our projects are better 
organised. I look forward to our continued maturing and 
on behalf of the entire Board want to thank the entire 
OPG team and its associates for their continued 
enthusiasm and support. 
Project commissioning schedule (MW)
Location Capacity
Economic 
interest
Planning 
permission
Debt 
status
Equity funding 
status
Fuel/domestic 
linkage
Status
In development
Chennai IV 80 MW 99%
✓ 
Under 
progress
Internal 
accruals
✓ Expected 
2013
Chennai III 160 MW 99% ✓ ✓ ✓ Imported Expected 
2014
Gujarat 300 MW 99% ✓ ✓ ✓ 70% Coal 
linkage 
obtained
Expected 
2014
Bellary 12 MW 99% To be 
obtained
Under 
progress
✓ Coal linkage 
to be obtained
Expected 
2014
  16
OPG Power Ventures Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
The Chennai site hosts four plants with a total capacity of 394 MW  
of which 77 MW is in operation and 317 MW under construction.
Maximising Opportunity 17
OPG Power Ventures Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
394 MW in operation and under 
construction in Chennai
Expansion of capacity is delivered by building 
modular plants. The revised configuration of 
Chennai III from 2 x 80 MW to 160 MW is expected 
to result in savings in coal consumption given the 
lower turbine/boiler heat rate for a 160 MW unit. At 
the same time, the reduced footprint of a 160 MW 
unit makes available space on site for the newly 
committed Chennai IV.
Chennai I, II and IV are replica plants with similar 
technology and equipment. All Chennai plants 
benefit from sharing land, certain infrastructure 
and other operational resources. 
