 10
OPG Power Ventures Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
“ The emphasis on accelerated development and delivery 
continues, both at Chennai and Gujarat, with this largely 
brownfield expansion portfolio being increasingly de-risked. 
In the light of what we see as structural and beneficial, 
changes taking place with regard to power sector pricing in 
the country, we are confident that the Group’s differentiated 
and profitable business model will increasingly contribute to 
build superior shareholder value.”
Chairman’s Statement
Building on our track record
We benefited during the year from a strong, full year contribution from 
the Chennai I (77 MW) plant as we forged ahead with our projects 
under construction.
View of Chennai I (right) and Chennai II (left) 11
OPG Power Ventures Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
I am pleased to report that in one of the most difficult 
trading environments the Indian power sector has 
witnessed since private sector participation began nearly 
20 years ago, the Company has made considerable 
progress in advancing its projects and operations.
We achieved revenue of £45.3m compared with £33.1m 
in 2010–11 whilst pre-exceptional earnings per share was 
1.705 pence. Our business model continues to achieve 
average tariffs ahead of our competition. This has 
delivered margins that are amongst the highest amongst 
independent Indian electricity generators.
There has been much talk of coal availability and the 
impact that a shortage could have on the operation and 
development of large, new plants. Our plants are smaller 
in scale and are designed to be flexible and profitable 
under a variety of operating conditions and using various 
quality fuels. Coal availability was not a problem for OPG 
as linkage commitments were met and other quantities 
were imported at comparable cost. We expect this to 
continue to be a distinguishing feature of our business in 
the long-term.
All our projects have progressed during the year. 
Specifically, we accelerated Chennai II which is to be 
commissioned shortly and announced the addition of 
another 80 MW unit, Chennai IV, which is also currently 
ahead of schedule. Our ability to fund internally the  
equity of this latest project reflects our focus on returns 
and cash generation. In due course we shall have 
approximately 400 MW of capacity at the Chennai site. 
The year also saw progress at the 300 MW Gujarat  
project although the project has faced some local 
objections. I referred in my report last year to the 
constant testing of approval processes in a democratic 
country – environmental clearances for the Gujarat 
project were confirmed by the National Green Tribunal 
but nevertheless the Company has elected to go the 
extra mile by adopting air-cooled condensers. We believe 
this eliminates the basis for any of the claims that have 
been made against the project on environmental 
considerations.
OPG hopes to benefit from shortage in supply of reliable 
power in India. The 11th Five Year Plan has now ended 
and around two thirds of the anticipated capacity during 
that period was actually delivered. The demand outlook 
for power in India has its foundation in the Government’s 
desired economic growth for the country of 
approximately 10% p.a. The year witnessed high interest 
rates and a weak currency against the US Dollar leading 
to bottlenecks in infrastructure financing and 
development, particularly for large projects, the sort that 
an emerging country such as India acutely needs to 
support anything close to its targeted growth level. 
Whilst your Company has maintained its hallmark fuel 
flexibility it is encouraging to see the Indian Government 
responding to the country’s shortage of domestic  
coal supplies. Our hope is that this focus will persist. 
Furthermore, there has been a centralised push to 
address the ailing health of some of the State Electricity 
Boards as part of reform of the sector. Tamil Nadu should 
be a beneficiary of this with tariff rises of over 35% and 
fuel surcharge introduced – we expect to see some 
benefit of this flow through to the Company. These 
events and trends suggest an improving marketplace  
for us to operate in compared with the poor conditions 
last year.
I would like to conclude by thanking the management 
and its dedicated team for their commitment during a 
difficult year. Progressing all projects and being profitable 
in this environment is no mean achievement. With our 
team’s continuing enthusiasm, I remain confident of the 
Company’s bright future.
M C Gupta
30 June 2012
