 12
OPG Power Ventures Plc
Annual Report + Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Our Company has transformed itself from a 
promising growth story into a strong cash 
generative business with a superior growth  
profile and further potential.
On completion of our fifth year as a listed company I am 
pleased to report that we now have 270 MW of power 
generation assets compared with just 20 MW at the  
time of listing on AIM in May 2008. Over that time our 
Company has transformed itself from a promising growth 
story into a strong cash generative business with a 
superior growth profile and further potential. Our 
earnings at 2.48 pence in 2013 were an all-time high.  
We have commissioned two assets in the last nine 
months thus completing the first major phase of our 
growth programme. Bringing this portfolio of three 
significant co-located assets to a steady state gives  
us the basis on which to deliver further value to our 
customers and shareholders. 
Robust operating and financial performance 
The commissioning of 77 MW Chennai II in September 
2012, load factors of over 90% on both assets and 13% 
higher average tariffs led to a strong performance for  
the year. Underlying revenues in Rupee terms were up 
63% whilst EBITDA margins were firm at 32% and  
we generated our highest earnings per share to date  
of 2.48 pence. 
Our plants performed ahead of expectations and I 
commend our operating team led by our COO, T 
Chandramoulee, for the quick stabilisation and ramp up 
of Chennai II. Further, the team has ensured Chennai I 
and II achieved excellent load factors in spite of an 
extended 25 day shutdown at Chennai I. 
A few days ago we announced the accelerated delivery 
and commencement of commercial operations at 80 MW 
Chennai III. This unit has been commissioned several 
months ahead of schedule by our own in-house team. 
Increased tariffs 
Burgeoning financial losses of the state electricity boards 
triggered a much needed rise in tariffs across India 
during the year. Financial restructuring packages and 
regulatory changes are expected to require regular 
review of tariffs going forward and we have already  
seen more than one round of tariff increases and  
the introduction of Fuel Price Adjustment charges in 
some states. 
Accordingly, as our flexible model allows, we continue  
to supply the bulk of our power to the Tamil Nadu state 
utility on short-term contracts as tariffs are attractive.  
We have recently agreed to supply c. 90% output from 
Chennai I and II until May 2014 and a further 90% output 
from Chennai III until September 2013 at Rs 5.50/kWh. 
Imported coal prices lower but expected to remain 
flat in short-term 
Whilst international coal prices have been lower than the 
prior year by 3%, domestic coal prices increased by 21% 
during the year. As we used a higher quantity of imported 
coal and Chennai II burnt exclusively imported coal our 
overall average unit cost remained flat. This once again 
demonstrated the advantages of our flexible boilers. 
Arvind Gupta
Chief Executive Officer 
Superior growth profile
Chief Executive’s review 13
OPG Power Ventures Plc
Annual Report + Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
460 MW IN 
AdvANcEd 
cONSTRUcTION
Both of our remaining 
principal projects at 
Chennai and Gujarat 
remain on schedule, to 
achieve commissioning  
in 2014, with civil works 
and foundations largely 
complete at both sites 
and other construction 
activities well progressed. 
Our strategy is to continue to procure imported coal 
through a mix of short and long-term contracts as 
efficiently as possible. 
Our projects
On 29 May 2013 we updated shareholders as to the 
degree of completeness of each of our projects under 
development. We did so in continuation of our strategy to 
adopt an open communication style and to promote an 
understanding of the value we believe to be built in to 
each project. 
Both of our remaining principal projects at Chennai and 
Gujarat remain on schedule, to achieve commissioning in 
2014, with civil works and foundations largely complete at 
both sites and other construction activities well progressed.
Building a strong team
The health and safety of our employees and contractors 
is of paramount importance to us. During the year we 
instituted a formal Health, Safety and Environment  
(‘HSE’) committee which has already led initiatives to 
improve standards and practices at our various sites.  
For instance, our flagship 77 MW Chennai I unit has  
recently been awarded ISO 14001 and OHSAS  
18001 certification.
Our team has gained in experience at all levels from 
development to management with all Engineering, 
Procurement and Construction (‘EPC’) and Operations 
and Maintenance (‘O&M’) principally performed in-house. 
The team has incorporated lessons from each of the 
projects to achieve continuous improvements and 
efficiencies across projects and operations. We are 
proud of our team’s achievements. 
Outlook
We believe the macro environment for electricity 
generation in India is recovering gradually. Forecasts for 
growth in India remain moderate at over 5% in this 
pre-election year. However, even at moderate growth 
levels, taken over a two to three year time horizon we see 
recent trends in the electricity generation sector as 
unstoppable – namely supply shortages in most parts of 
the country and the recognition amongst policymakers 
that power must continue to pave the way for both 
industrial growth and improvements in living standards. 
Accordingly over that same time period we do anticipate 
tariffs to rise gradually, more new capacity (thermal and 
renewable), and minor improvements in domestic fuel 
supplies accompanied by measures to moderately 
improve the investment climate for Indian infrastructure. 
As a result we believe the 460 MW second phase of our 
asset delivery programme to be well-timed as industry 
conditions should further stabilise and our priorities 
during the coming months are therefore to maximise our 
existing operations, de-risk the final elements of the 
project portfolio and evaluate our further growth strategy. 
Arvind Gupta
Chief Executive Officer
20 June 2013
