 Our business model
Ophir’s model for value creation is through 
the exploration and appraisal phases of the 
E&P cycle; and through monetising assets  
at the appropriate time to capture optimum 
value for shareholders. Simply put our job  
is to find resources for the minimal capital 
outlay and then to monetise them for the 
highest possible price. 
In 2014 we took the decision, in consultation 
with major shareholders, to move towards 
sustainability. A key part of this financing 
model is the addition of production assets 
which generate cash flow to fund exploration 
and appraisal activity. The acquisition of 
Salamander was the first step towards 
achieving this goal.
Strategy: a point of 
differentiation
Our strategy has three key components:
• value creation through exploration
• active portfolio management
• disciplined approach to capital allocation 
and returns
The Pavilion Energy transaction is an example 
of the first two elements of this strategy.  
It demonstrated the ability of the Company  
both to find resource and monetise it, in this 
case creating a return on investment of 4.5x. 
A proportion of the funds generated by this 
transaction have enabled us to act counter-
cyclically adding new exploration acreage to  
the portfolio, with a low level of commitment 
spending, that provide a series of options for 
future drilling. We also exited a number of 
licences that did not have the potential to deliver 
material returns to shareholders in the near term.
Dr Nick Cooper, 
Chief Executive 
Officer
The acquisition of Salamander Energy 
completed in March 2015. This diversifies  
our source of funding through the addition  
of cash flow, and also by adding a prudent 
level of debt to the balance sheet. 
Finally, we maintain extreme discipline in 
capital allocation. Every dollar we spend must 
have the potential to deliver a significant return 
to shareholders in a low oil price environment. 
Alongside this, we have reviewed our cost  
base and believe we can make savings of 
$250 million over the next two years.
Operations
Another major achievement in 2014 was 
the progress made with the FLNG project in 
Equatorial Guinea. Having hit all of the key 
project milestones for 2014, the project has 
now been significantly de-risked and a clear 
commercial framework established. We are 
confident of making further progress in 2015, 
when we expect to commence the upstream 
and midstream FEED projects. 
Drilling performance and  
new acreage 
In 2014 Ophir undertook its busiest ever drilling 
campaign and participated in 1 1 deepwater 
wells, of which eight we operated. Although 
the five-well exploration programme in Gabon 
and in Blocks 7 and East Pande, Tanzania, 
was disappointing, we were successful in our 
remaining six exploration and appraisal wells 
in Equatorial Guinea and Tanzania. Ophir’s 
three year finding and drilling costs rose from 
$0.89/boe to $1.34/boe and the Company 
retains a healthy 66% success rate with 
exploration and appraisal drilling.
Despite a profoundly challenging period for the E&P sector,  
Ophir delivered a number of milestones during 2014. Foremost 
amongst these was the completion of the divestment of a  
20% interest in Blocks 1, 3 and 4 in Tanzania for $1.288 billion* . 
The Pavilion transaction provided Ophir with 
one of the strongest balance sheets in the 
international E&P sector and positioned it to 
take advantage of the opportunities presented 
by the industry downturn. In early 2015 we 
have taken steps to further strengthen our 
financial liquidity, by significantly reducing 
capex from previous levels. 2015 capex is 
now forecast at between $250 million and 
$300 million (2014: $580 million) of which 
only approximately $35 million is committed 
exploration expenditure highlighting our 
financial flexibility. Ophir has the strength 
to emerge from the current period of low oil 
prices as a significantly larger, stronger and 
better balanced company. 
* Includes a $38 million amount that is payable at FID.
10 Ophir Energy plc
Chief Executive’s review Ophir’s strategy for 
growth overview 
Vision
Ophir’s vision is to be the leading 
international oil and gas exploration 
and production company.   
The key elements 
of the strategy are: 
Value creation 
through 
exploration
Active 
portfolio
management 
Focus on 
capital 
allocation 
and returns
A key focus of the past year has been to 
rebuild Ophir’s exploration portfolio, as we 
position the Company for the next phase  
of drilling. During 2014, Ophir added a total 
of 47,000 square kilometres in acreage, 
across four countries. There are no well 
commitments across this acreage meaning 
Ophir will be able to offer shareholders access 
to a high-graded exploration portfolio of 
world class potential, with only prospects  
we truly believe can deliver commercial 
returns being drilled.
Outlook
A dramatic fall in the oil price approaching 
50% from its high point in the past year, has 
resulted in a significant scaling back of capex 
budgets, overhead costs and activity levels 
across the E&P sector. Ophir has similarly 
prioritised its capital expenditure to protect 
its balance sheet and reduce its cost 
structure. As a consequence of the sector-
wide reduction in activity, service costs have 
fallen significantly and we expect this trend  
to continue. Ophir is selectively exploiting  
this shift in the market: seismic costs have 
now dropped to a third of 2014 prices and  
we commenced 3D acquisition in Myanmar 
in February 2015, where we have been able 
to triple the size of the survey for the same 
cost as originally budgeted. 
201 5 will see Ophir continue to progress its  
two LNG projects in Tanzania and Equatorial 
Guinea. Both of these are presently scheduled 
for FID in 201 7 and, with drilling behind us  
and construction not commencing until  
after FID, these projects have low capital 
requirements. With only $1 50 million of capital 
expenditure through to FID we can continue  
to push both projects forward whilst also 
maintaining capital discipline. 
The Salamander business is now being 
integrated, thereby building a stronger, larger 
and better balanced company. Whilst 2015 
will not see the levels of exploration drilling 
that we undertook in 2014, we shall be 
investing and analysing our pre-existing and 
new acreage. At these low oil prices there is 
rightly a focus on capital discipline and cost 
management. However, whilst the risk profiles 
of the world’s reservoir rocks remain constant, 
the cost of assessing that risk via exploration 
has fallen considerably in recent months. 
With our strong balance sheet, and with  
the Salamander transaction delivering a 
more sustainable business model, Ophir is 
exceptionally placed to selectively explore 
when most others are unable. It is our 
ambition to build the business further over 
the next 12 to 24 months, exposing our 
shareholders to material value creation  
at a markedly lower cost.
Dr Nick Cooper
Chief Executive Officer
11 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance 
report
Financial  
statements
Supplementary 
information
Overview
Strategy
Performance
