 2014 was challenging for the upstream oil and gas sector. A 50%  
reduction in the oil price, to a low for Brent of $57 .33, meant the  
sector remained out of favour with generalist investors. Despite this,  
Ophir successfully delivered on a number of key objectives. 
A major achievement in 2014 was the 
completion of the sale of a 20% interest in 
our LNG assets in Tanzania to Pavilion Energy 
of Singapore for a price of $1.288 billion*. 
Following the Pavilion Energy transaction,  
our financial position is the strongest it has 
ever been. Ophir is well placed to navigate 
this period of lower commodity prices, and 
utilise its financial strength to emerge from 
the downturn as a larger, stronger and  
better balanced company.
The completion of the Salamander Energy 
acquisition is evidence of this. This has moved 
Ophir a step closer to our goal of a self-sustaining 
funding model. It also brings into the Group  
a well-balanced Asian portfolio of high quality 
assets with upside, and a platform for future 
growth in the region. On behalf of the Board, 
I would like to welcome our new employees  
in Asia to Ophir; we look forward to working 
together to unlock significant value from the 
expanded portfolio.
Health and safety
Ophir operated two deepwater drilling rigs in 
tandem for a large part of 201 4, testing our ability 
to complete parallel operations whilst adhering to 
the highest standards of health and safety. I am 
delighted that we completed these operations 
with only one, minor, Lost Time Incident. This is a 
clear testament to Ophir’s commitment to health, 
safety and the environment. Ophir also places  
a strong emphasis on maintaining excellent 
relationships with local communities and, 
amongst other activities, continues to support 
sustainable Corporate Responsibility (CR) 
programmes in the countries in which it operates. 
People
The Ophir Board, conscious of the changing 
environment, restructured the organisation  
in late 2014 both to reduce cost and to ensure 
it was appropriately resourced to deliver its key 
projects. This process resulted in the decision to 
reconfigure the Board, which led to Lisa Mitchell 
stepping down as Chief Financial Officer  
and Dennis McShane stepping down from 
the position of Strategy Director. I would  
like to reiterate the Board’s thanks to Lisa 
and Dennis for their contributions to Ophir  
and wish them every success in the future. 
As part of the review process we were 
delighted to appoint Bill Higgs to the role  
of Chief Operating Officer. Bill has more  
than 25 years’ experience in the industry, 
much of it spent with Chevron Corporation.
Following the completion of the Salamander 
Energy acquisition, Dr Carol Bell joined us  
as an independent Non-Executive Director. 
Carol served on Salamander’s Board from 
2012 until 2015 and I am very pleased to 
welcome her to the Board. 
Lastly, I should like to thank John Lander who 
retired from the Board on 28 January 2014. 
John joined the Board in 2008 and latterly 
had been Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee from 2011. His contribution has 
been much appreciated.
Nicholas Smith, 
Chairman
* Includes a $38 million amount that is payable at FID.
8 Ophir Energy plc
Chairman’s statement Nicholas Smith
Chairman
Dr Nicholas Cooper
Executive Director and Chief Executive Ocer
Dr William (Bill) Higgs
Executive Director and Chief Operating Ocer
Ronald Blakely
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Alan Booth
Independent Non-Executive Director
Vivien Gibney
Independent Non-Executive Director
Lyndon Powell
Independent Non-Executive Director
William (Bill) Schrader
Independent Non-Executive Director
R N
N R A
Dr Carol Bell*
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chandrika Kher
Company Secretary and Committees’ Secretary
C R
Indicates Chairman of Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Responsibility Committee
* Appointed to the Board on 2 March 2015.
Nominations Committee
Remuneration Committee
Technical Advisory Committee
Governance
The Board accords the highest importance  
to corporate governance matters and  
during 2014 we completed a review of our 
governance arrangements. This resulted in 
updated Terms of Reference for the Board 
Committees, and a number of key policies 
have been refreshed to ensure we uphold the 
highest ethical standards. We also completed 
a review of our Board evaluation process. 
More details on these changes can be found 
in the Corporate Governance section of our 
Annual Report.
Nicholas Smith
Chairman
Board of Directors and Officers
9 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic report
Overview
Strategy
Performance
Governance 
report
Financial  
statements
Supplementary 
information
Board of Directors 
page 48
