 Optimal Payments Plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 06
President and CEO’s Review
Positioned for further growth
Introduction
We are extremely pleased with the significant 
growth and strong performances across the 
business in 2014 with revenues up 44% to 
$365.0 million (2013: $253.4 million) and EBITDA 
increasing 65% to $86.1 million (2013: $52.2 
million); this resulted in the Group’s profit after  
tax increasing by 83% to $57.7 million (2013: 
$31.5 million), which was also favourably 
impacted by an unrealised fair value gain of 
$18.8 million during the current year.
We also achieved a number of significant 
milestones in 2014: the launch of the NETELLER 
and NET+ offerings in the US to enhance 
our position in the regulated online gambling 
market, attaining Principal Membership status 
with Visa and MasterCard to strengthen our 
NETBANX offering in the European Union 
and the successful acquisition and ongoing 
integration of the Meritus and GMA online 
payments companies to our NETBANX business 
to establish a significant presence and merchant 
base in the US. More recently, we have launched 
of a new card issuing services division and 
our NETELLERGO! offering for ecommerce 
merchants outside of gambling to contribute to 
continued growth. These achievements have all 
been important strategic goals as we continue to 
deliver on our stated objectives. We believe that 
the investment we have made in these and other 
areas will help to drive further growth.
The NETELLER Stored Value business 
continued to perform well through 2014, driven 
by underlying growth in customer metrics and 
an improvement in the gross margin which 
Joel Leonoff
President and CEO
2014 was a year of significant 
growth for Optimal Payments with 
substantial increases in revenue 
and profitability, setting a solid 
foundation for the year ahead.
has significantly contributed to the increase 
in EBITDA. The NETBANX Straight Through 
Processing business also performed strongly, 
revenues from the US businesses were 
incorporated in the second half of the year 
following the completion of the acquisitions in 
July. Our largest merchant contributed 36.7% 
of overall revenue, significantly boosted by the 
World Cup in the first half; this contribution was 
diluted by the inclusion of revenues from the 
US businesses in the second half of 2014. We 
continue to provide NETELLER and NETBANX 
services to this customer worldwide. The 
regulatory environment has continued to evolve 
and while this did not materially impact our 
revenues in 2014, some uncertainty persists in 
this regard. 
The Group was highly cash generative during the 
year, enabling us to acquire Meritus and GMA for 
a combined cost of $225 million payable in cash 
and shares, partly financed by new bank debt of 
$150 million. The Group’s ‘own cash’ (excluding 
any merchant cash) increased to $106.5 million 
at year end (31 Dec 2013: $93.8 million) with free 
cash of approximately $44.0 million. 
In January 2014, we successfully placed our then 
major shareholder’s entire stake (25.2% of the 
then issued share capital) into the market with the 
resulting transformation of our shareholder base, 
with 72 institutional shareholders participating in 
the placement. The remaining shareholder loans 
of $9.5 million that were related to the 2011 
acquisition of OP Inc. were converted into equity 
and formed part of this placement.   Optimal Payments Plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 07
Strategic Review 01 - 23
Governance 24 - 39
Financial Statements 40 - 79
Company Information 80 - 82
NETELLER Stored Value (“SV”)
The Group’s NETELLER SV business 
(comprising the NETELLER and Net+ prepaid 
card stored value offering) performed strongly 
throughout 2014 with revenues up 50% to  
$89.6 million (2013: $59.8 million) and the gross 
margin improved to 85% (2013: 84%). 
The improved cash-back based VIP member 
loyalty program, a strengthened sales team, 
an enhanced affiliate program and numerous 
additions to deposit options for members 
worldwide have contributed to increased market 
share, primarily in the European online gambling 
market where NETELLER remains one of the 
two major providers of stored-value offerings. 
Key lead indicators such as number of member 
signups and member conversion rates continued 
to improve.
In 2014, we built upon our Principal Issuer 
membership of MasterCard through 
improvement of existing products and the 
development of a wider product suite. We 
have seen consistent growth with our award 
winning Net+ product, with over 450,000 
Net+ prepaid cards issued and an average of 
35,000 cardholders active every month. Our 
Issuing business made good progress in 2014 
with the continued organic growth of our Net+ 
programme with transaction value of $376 million 
(2013: $324 million). A new card issuing services 
division was launched in October 2014 to offer 
a variety of different programmes from white 
labelled cards to fully customised prepaid and 
multi-channel payment solutions, leveraging the 
Group’s extensive experience in multi-currency 
issuance and settlement to create repeatable 
scalable processes to merchants. Key strategic 
projects for 2015 are to enhance the offering 
with a pooled accounts solution to support real 
time loading of consumer funds and an agency 
banking solution which will allow prepaid card 
programmes to offer a more comprehensive 
banking experience to their clients (including 
internet banking and electronic payments).
In July we announced the shirt sponsorship of 
UK Premier League football club Crystal Palace 
FC which has given extensive exposure to and 
raised the awareness of the NETELLER brand 
in the UK and internationally. Our focus has 
traditionally been on the online gambling market 
where NETELLER has a strong market position 
however, we recently launched NETELLERGO! 
for ecommerce merchants to offer their 
consumers the flexibility of access to indemnified 
alternative payment types to complete their 
purchases. Optimal Payments Plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 08
Progress on  
strategic initiatives
Having accomplished all of our stated goals in 2014, 
we are excited about the year ahead and the evolving 
opportunities for Optimal Payments.
Develop new white-label propositions
Deploy our technologies in new markets to develop Integrated 
payments solutions with key strategic partners. 
US gaming opportunity
Strong and growing presence in the US and established  
as a leader in gaming payments having serviced all top global 
brands since 1996. 
Inorganic growth through acquisition
To enhance growth and diversify the business.
Drive growth in core business lines
Obtained Principal Membership with Visa Europe and 
MasterCard Europe for merchant acquiring in the European 
Union in January 2014. MasterCard Principal Membership  
for issuing achieved in November 2012.
Develop multi-channel solutions
Integrating with our partners to expand on the innovative 
solutions we make available for our customers.   Optimal Payments Plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 09
Strategic Review 01 - 23
Governance 24 - 39
Financial Statements 40 - 79
Company Information 80 - 82
President and CEO’s Review continued
NETBANX Straight Through Processing 
(“STP”) 
The Group’s NETBANX STP business also 
showed strong growth with full year revenues 
up 42% to $274.7 million (2013: $193.0 million). 
The growth was due to increasing demand from 
gambling and non-gambling customers alike, 
including our largest merchant whose revenue 
increased significantly during the World Cup. 
The gross margin in NETBANX was stable at 
41% (2013: 42%) with the bulk of the direct 
processing costs being fees to acquiring banks 
and other intermediate processors. Customer 
retention remains high as NETBANX provides 
a wide range of payment and fraud prevention 
services through a single customer integration 
point as well as access to more than a dozen 
acquiring banks worldwide. The underlying 
platform is scalable, and can accommodate a 
large number of new customers. 
The integration of the Meritus and GMA 
businesses is progressing well, contributing 
to the growth of the NETBANX division in the 
second half of the year. Acquisition of these 
profitable, fast growing and cash generative 
businesses will significantly accelerating Optimal 
Payments’ expansion into the rapidly expanding 
US ecommerce market by providing it with 
a diversified merchant client base, a highly 
agile multi-channel sales force operating in 
complimentary and new vertical markets and, 
partnerships with leading US acquiring banks. 
Having secured Principal Membership with Visa 
and MasterCard in the European Union, we are 
now able to offer competitive acquiring services 
to merchants which gives us the opportunity 
to increase the addressable market for our 
NETBANX offering. Principal Membership allows 
us to compete with banks and also benefit from 
interchange pricing from Visa and MasterCard. 
We expect to be more competitive in the lower 
risk processing markets whereas, to date, we 
have mainly focused on moderate to high risk 
markets. Our lower cost base should result in a 
more balanced mix of merchants in our portfolio. 
This business model underpins our confidence 
that NETBANX can continue to win business in 
all territories.
We have also continued to invest in building out 
our product infrastructure with the specific focus 
of providing etailers and retailers with the tools 
necessary to integrate technologies, such as our 
Developer centre giving code examples and test 
access to developers. In addition, we have the 
tools to enable merchants to access alternative 
payment types such as Apple Pay, MasterPass 
and Pingit to enhance the shopping experience 
for their customers using the most secure 
payment solutions available. 
US gaming 
NETELLER and Net+ products launched in 
the US in March 2014 and we have seen wide 
acceptance and adoption by merchants in New 
Jersey, Nevada and Delaware where online 
gambling has been regulated. Larger and more 
populous US states, including California and 
Pennsylvania, are currently considering licensing 
online gambling in 2015 and beyond. 
We are well positioned to gain market share 
in the US market, having acquired significant 
US operations through our California based 
businesses Meritus and GMA. We have 
continued to develop our relationships with 
current and potential merchants and have forged 
successful partnerships in the rapidly developing 
area of fantasy sports leagues.  Optimal Payments Plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 10
President and CEO’s Review continued
Recognition
We have won a number of awards across the 
business in the past year demonstrating the 
excellent service which we deliver to customers 
globally and the Group’s continued contribution 
as a provider of outsourced technology solutions 
to the online gaming industry. 
NETELLER most recently won ‘Best Payment 
System for Affiliates’ at the iGB Affiliate Awards 
and ‘Corporate Services Supplier of the Year’ 
at the International Gaming Awards in February 
2015. Our Net+ card achieved ‘Best General 
Spend Prepaid Card’, ‘Best Free Prepaid Card’, 
‘Best Prepaid Card’ and ‘Best Gaming Prepaid 
Card’ at the Prepaid 365 Awards. Optimal 
Payments won ‘Regional Payments Solution 
of the Year’ at the eGaming Review and was 
recognised as the leading ecommerce platform 
gateway provider at the Card not Present (CNP) 
Awards.
In October 2014, Danny Chazonoff (our Chief 
Operations Officer) and I were honoured to 
be named as the winners of Ernst & Young’s 
Entrepreneur of the Year Quebec’s Information 
Technology category. Most recently we were 
proud to announce that Elliott Wiseman, our 
General Counsel, won the Individual Award in the 
Regulatory (Financial Services) category at the 
European Counsel Awards 2015 in recognition 
of the considerable expertise he has shown in 
leading our legal and compliance functions from 
joining the Group in 2011.
Current trading and outlook 
The underlying business continues to perform 
well. Having accomplished all we set out to do 
during the year, both financially and operationally, 
we have emerged with a solid foundation for 
2015 and look forward to maintaining the 
momentum established in 2014. 
Our Executive Management Team has been 
strengthened through the addition of talented 
and experienced executives from Meritus and 
GMA and the recent appointment of Brian 
McArthur-Muscroft as CFO provides us with 
FTSE 250 level experience and pedigree as well 
as great leadership, discipline and value for our 
growing business. 
We continue to assess M&A opportunities that 
provide a strategic fit at the right valuation to 
further accelerate earnings growth, diversify 
our business and, most importantly, deliver 
value to shareholders. I would like to thank 
the management team and all staff for their 
outstanding contributions, without which the 
Group’s success today could not have been 
achieved.
Joel Leonoff
President and Chief Executive Officer
22 March 2015
Joel Leonoff and Danny Chazonoff win Ernst 
& Young’ s Entrepreneur of the Year (Quebec’ s 
Information T echnology category) in October 2014.   Optimal Payments Plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 11
Strategic Review 01 - 23
Governance 24 - 39
Financial Statements 40 - 79
Company Information 80 - 82
Well positioned 
in US gaming
NETELLER and Net+ products were launched in the 
US in March 2014 and further partnerships have been 
forged including the rapidly developing area of fantasy 
sports leagues.
NETELLER sponsors  
Crystal Palace
The shirt sponsorship of UK Premier 
League football club Crystal Palace 
has raised the awareness of the 
NETELLER brand in the UK and 
internationally.
