 Optimisa plc 4
Financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007
Chief Executive’s review
I am very pleased to report that 2007 was another year of outstanding performance. The business has
virtually doubled in size in the year with revenue rising from £5.89m in 2006 to £11.42m in 2007 an
increase of 94%. Gross profit also increased substantially, from £4.62m in 2006 to £8.09m in 2007 an
increase of 75%. As a consequence of both further organic growth and the full impact of the acquisition
of EQ we expect the business to double in size in the coming year.
Adjusted profit before tax was above target, increasing by 81% from £0.75m in 2006 to £1.36m in 2007.
We started the year with an exceptionally strong core business in the form of KAE, our marketing
strategy and market analysis consulting operation supported by the highly talented qualitative research
agency, AIA in the UK and nxtMOVE, specialists in market analysis and strategic decision support, in
the US.
These businesses once again exceeded our high expectations, expanding both the depth of their
relationships with long-standing clients and the breadth of clients served. In addition, consistent with our
operational integration strategy, we made significant advances in developing Group wide best practice
business operations. This had a positive impact internally, but more importantly in improving the range
and quality of services offered to our clients and helping the performance of the Group overall.
As an example, organic growth in revenue for KAE alone was over 33%. Operating margins at KAE
before central costs were well in excess of 20%. 
The results for the year to 31 December 2007 include an eight month contribution from RIL, which was
acquired on 2 May 2007, and slightly over two months of contribution from the companies within EQ,
which was acquired on 19 October 2007. 
RIL is a long established media analysis company with an impressive client base in the UK, Europe and
North America and a network of analysts in over 40 countries around the world. We had known the
management for some time and saw an opportunity to expand the business into digital, blog and new
media analysis alongside the more traditional services. It has taken longer than planned to restructure the
business and a small loss was made in the eight month period ended 31 December 2007. However, RIL
is now profitable and making steady positive progress and we expect an earnings-enhancing performance
in the full year 2008.
The acquisition of EQ has transformed the Optimisa business. On an annualised basis, the business had
revenue of £10.39m, larger than the annualised revenue of the Optimisa Group pre the EQ group
acquisition. At acquisition it had a headcount of around 110 people, also larger than the 82 in the
Optimisa group at that point. However, margin performance was significantly below that enjoyed by
Optimisa at less than 10%. The combination of the businesses has provided an opportunity to enhance
the overall performance of Optimisa both by improving the profitability of the EQ companies and by
cross selling and increasing our spread of overheads. In addition we have diversified both our service
range and sector exposure, which reduces commercial risk. 
EQ comprises Quaestor Research and Marketing Strategists Limited (Quaestor) based in Leeds, a full
service market research and marketing strategy business, Buckingham Research Associates Limited
(Buckingham), a specialist quantitative research and analysis company based near Maidenhead and
Summit Studios Limited, based in Ealing, West London. 
Quaestor, which employed 86 people when acquired and had a turnover of £6.70m in 2006, has a strong
base of clients in the Financial Services, Consumer and Media sectors. We believe its integration with the
wider Group offer will bring benefits to its existing client base as well as offering opportunities for
further ‘in sourcing’ of work already being done by other Group companies.
Buckingham, which employed 22 people when acquired and had a turnover of £3.35m in 2006,
substantially broadens our quantitative analytic capabilities both in the realm of traditional market
research but also in our ability to process information held in client systems – further building our data
analytics capability. Optimisa plc 5
Financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
Both Quaestor and Buckingham were business partners with Optimisa companies before the acquisition
and we have made great strides in expanding working and business development relationships across the
Group. Inter-company networking and business was a key objective of the acquisition and has far
exceeded our expectations to-date. In the short period EQ was part of the Group before the year-end, it
produced results in line with our expectations and delivered over £2.09m of revenue and £0.28m of
operating profit.
We started the year with 56 employees in the Group. Our total headcount at the end of the year was
200, with an average number of employees of 102. A key component of the rationale of making the EQ
acquisition was the opportunity it provides to drive up revenue per employee and consequently margin
performance. For 2007, KAE produced revenue per employee of £176,000 which compares to £73,000
per employee for Quaestor and £180,000 per employee at Buckingham. We consider operating income
per employee a key indicator of performance and will be looking to drive this up during 2008.
Investment in high performing individuals continues as a top priority for the Group and we have been
delighted to expand our management team with the addition of a Group business development director
at the end of 2007 and new CEOs at Quaestor, Buckingham and KAE in 2008.
Group wide training and development programmes are also being implemented to ensure we both
enhance and retain the very high calibre people we are fortunate to have in the team. Following the
successes of previous years we plan to repeat our staff rotation programme to provide internal
development opportunities as well as improving management efficiencies and knowledge sharing.
To support best practice business management, knowledge sharing and provision of the very best
services to our clients, we are investing heavily in IT infrastructure and integration across all business
units. Top priorities are on speed of operation, ease of access to critical business information from all
locations and collaboration tools allowing efficient and effective client delivery from teams drawn from
more than one business unit.
The overall Optimisa business focus remains on delivering high value, commercially based market and
marketing advice to help our clients grow their businesses profitably. Broadly speaking all of the advisory
work conducted by the Group falls into one of two areas:
● Helping our clients protect and improve their existing businesses by advising on customer
retention, competitive strategy, product portfolio optimisation and margin improvement;
● Helping our clients build and expand by advising on market opportunity assessment, new
product/service development and launch and market entry strategy.
As a consequence of our ability to advise on ‘defence’ as well as ‘attack’, we believe we are very well
placed to withstand sector or market downturns and are continuing to win business in sectors already
under pressure from the credit crisis.
All businesses in the Group share one common business philosophy ‘Opinion with Evidence’, which
encapsulates our ambition to provide the very best consulting advice supported with evidence drawn
from customers (market research), the business environment (market, competitor intelligence and macro
economics) and information held by our clients themselves (CRM, Sales and channel information).
Our key client sectors now comprise Financial Services, Telecoms, Media and Consumer and we have
made good progress in expanding our work with the public sector. Operating income grew in all these
sectors in 2007 and we have been particularly pleased with our rapid development in the Media sector,
an area in which we see substantial opportunity moving forward.
Once again we have set demanding growth targets for each of our business units in the current year.
While there is clearly some uncertainty in how the current financial turbulence will influence the
spending patterns of our clients, to date we have seen little impact in our core business. Perhaps,
surprisingly to some, our financial services practice has been the best performing area of the business in
the first few months of 2008. Optimisa plc 6
Financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
Having said this, we are keeping a very watchful eye on business in general and are keeping tight control
on operating expenses to ensure any sector downturn is spotted and dealt with quickly.
Consolidation and integration of the businesses that we have within the Group is a top strategic priority
for the coming year. We continue to focus on maximising the business potential and opportunities
presented by both expanding the range of services we provide to our existing client base as well as
winning business from new clients. 
We will continue to invest in people development and infrastructure to support organic business growth
and improve operating efficiency and have already had a good deal of success in sharing expertise across
business units and clients, something we see as a key differentiator from our sector competitors and a
capability from which we derive significant commercial advantage.
We plan to further expand our operations in North America over the medium term. The current
uncertain economic climate in the US may present an investment opportunity and we believe carefully
managed investment and growth will pay dividends in the long term.
We also plan to develop our own operation in Asia during the year. We already outsource a considerable
volume of work to local companies and see a very large opportunity to develop business working for
European and North American companies interested in expanding and improving their operations in
Asia. We are aggressively pursuing more work in this area and, based on current workload, we would
expect to have a team of 20 people in place by the end of this year.
The Group adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) during the year. The main impact
for the Group of adopting IFRS is the recognition and subsequent amortisation of intangible assets such
as customer lists and customer order books.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank our team for their hard work, commitment and,
most importantly, the inspiration, to do more and better, that they provide to both the senior
management team and myself – without them we would not have achieved the success we currently
enjoy.
Simon Dannatt
Chief Executive
