 Optimal Payments Plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 04
Chairman’s Statement
Building on our momentum 
Introduction
We have continued to successfully grow our 
businesses organically, and this growth has been 
supplemented by the acquisition, mid-year, of 
Meritus and GMA, which significantly expanded 
our presence in the North American online 
payments market.
Strategy
Optimal Payments has set out five strategic 
initiatives to grow the Company:
1. Drive organic growth in our core business 
lines of Straight-Through-Processing, Stored-
Value and, from 2014, Card Services;
2. Develop multi-channel solutions for these 
businesses so that their services offered are 
available on the widest and most up-to-date 
platforms;
3. Deliver new and innovative white label 
solutions to our customers that will help them 
retain and win business from their  
own customers;
4. Position our businesses to take maximum 
advantage of any further legalisation of online 
gambling (a worldwide market we know 
intimately) in the US, and;
5. Continue our successful M&A strategy to 
add scale to our operations – providing the 
acquisition can be completed on terms that 
are earnings accretive from the outset.
In 2014 the Company advanced all of these 
initiatives and I believe that we will make further 
significant progress in 2015. A detailed report 
on 2014’s achievements is set out in the CEO’s 
Review. 
Results
Revenues for 2014 increased by 44% to $365 
million (2013: $253.4 million) boosted by the 
FIFA World Cup in the first half of the year and, 
the contribution of the US businesses that 
were acquired in July 2014. Earnings before 
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 
(EBITDA) increased by 65% to $86.1 million 
(2013: $52.2 million) reflecting the operational 
leverage of our businesses where revenue rises, 
with low marginal cost increases, lead to larger 
increases in profits. Basic earnings per share 
(EPS) increased by 64% to 36 cents (2013: 22 
cents) and adjusted fully diluted EPS increased 
52% to 38 cents (2013: 25 cents). The Group 
ended 2014 with cash (excluding customer 
merchant cash) of $106.5 million (2013: $93.8 
million) and free cash of $44 million after 
funding $26.6 million in part consideration and 
acquisition costs for the US businesses. The net 
debt position at year end was $26.3 million, a 
bank facility of $150 million was secured to fund 
the US acquisitions, and the Group was in full 
compliance with its debt covenants and cleared 
the remaining shareholder loans in January 2014.
Dividend
The Board is not recommending the payment 
of a dividend in respect of 2014, in line with 
our stated policy to reinvest cash generated in 
further growth opportunities.
Board and governance
In addition to my appointment as Non-Executive 
Chairman, there have been a number of further 
changes to the composition of the Board 
as we seek to put in place the people and 
Dennis Jones
Chairman
This is my first statement to 
shareholders following my appointment 
as Chairman in July 2014 and I am 
pleased to be able to report material 
progress during 2014 - operationally 
and financially.    Optimal Payments Plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 05
Strategic Review 01 - 23
Governance 24 - 39
Financial Statements 40 - 79
Company Information 80 - 82
processes that are appropriate for the much 
larger enterprise that we seek to become. Ian 
Jenks and Andrew Dark became Non-Executive 
Directors at the same time as my appointment 
and they bring with them a wealth of experience 
and the type of governance necessary to 
sustain and accelerate our growth plans. John 
Bateson and Jonathan Comerford resigned as 
Non-Executive Directors on our appointment 
and, on behalf of the Board; I would like to take 
this opportunity to thank them for their valuable 
contributions.
Shortly after my appointment, the Board 
instituted a search for a CFO with large public 
company experience in the technology industry. 
In December, we announced the appointment 
of Brian McArthur-Muscroft as CFO and 
Executive Director of the Company. Brian was 
most recently Group Finance Director at Telecity 
Group Plc where he led the IPO of the business 
in 2007 and was chosen as the ICAEW’s FTSE 
250 Finance Director of the Year in 2012 and 
Business Week’s Finance Director of the Year 
in 2013. He holds a Law degree and qualified 
as a Chartered Accountant in London with 
PricewaterhouseCoopers. Brian succeeded 
Keith Butcher whom I must also thank for his 
valuable contribution during the Company’s early 
growth phase.
With the appointment of the new Non-Executive 
Directors, Brian’s appointment as CFO and the 
tightened corporate governance regime the 
Board has now put in place, I believe that we 
have a Board structure and governance platform 
that positions us well for the future.
The future 
We announced the proposed acquisition of 
the Skrill Group with the release of the full year 
results, taking advantage of an opportunity 
to acquire a business we know well which, 
combined with Optimal Payments will be a UK 
based, world class and scale online payments 
business. These opportunities are few and far 
between. The Board believes this transaction 
will be accretive for shareholders from the first 
full year of ownership, will further diversify our 
client base and, additionally, enable us to deliver 
enhanced services to existing and prospective 
merchants and customers around the world. 
Dennis Jones
Chairman 
22 March 2015 
