 Optimisa plc 3
Financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report that the 2007 results exceeded even our high expectations with adjusted earnings
per share (EPS), up 34% to 18.37p. In addition, we more than doubled the size of your company with
the acquisition of eq group plc (EQ) in October 2007, for a total cost of £13.13m including debt of
£6.16m.
EQ transforms Optimisa’s service offering, client base and capacity and thereby underpins the long term
growth prospects of the Group. We are confident that it will meet our demanding investment criteria in
2008 and beyond.
The excellent results for the year ended 31 December 2007 reflect the continuing success of our growth
strategy. We invest in our people and infrastructure with the objective of maintaining organic growth in
all our business units of over 10% per annum over the long term. This target was well exceeded in 2007.
In addition, we acquired businesses which are expected to be earnings enhancing in their first full year
with a similar objective of providing longer term organic growth of at least 10% pa. I am happy to
report that both nxtMOVE Corporation (nxtMOVE) and Andrew Irving Associates Limited (AIA),
bought in 2006, were strongly earnings enhancing in 2007. EQ and Report International Limited (RIL),
both acquired in 2007, had little overall impact on earnings last year. However, we are confident that
they will both be earnings per share enhancing in 2008 and make a significant contribution to the overall
results. 
The acquisition of EQ in October 2007 was funded from a combination of £7.45m raised from an
equity placing, our cash resources (including overdraft) of £1.93m and £3.75m of bank loans. Our strong
cash flow enabled us to bring net debt down to £3.72m by 31 December 2007.
Our balance sheet remains strong and should benefit from sustained strong cash generation during 2008.
With borrowing facilities of £5.50m we are well placed to continue our buy and build strategy if the
opportunities arise. Nevertheless, the opportunity to raise margins at EQ nearer to the kae: marketing
intelligence Limited (KAE) levels will alone provide a major engine for growth as will the benefits of our
continuing investment in our people throughout the enlarged Group.
2007 has been an exciting and challenging year and we are extremely pleased with the outcome. The
current year poses different challenges, which we believe will be as exciting and successful. We have
already strengthened the top management team and more senior hires are expected. We are looking at
potential opportunities to expand geographically into both North America and the Far East at minimal
cost or risk.
To date there has been little impact on our businesses from the current financial turmoil or the slow
down in the US economy. Although we are prepared for some impact we are confident that we are well
placed to continue to show well above average growth even against a markedly less benign overall
economic background. It should be appreciated that our high value added marketing consultancy services
are generally a very tiny proportion of our blue chip clients overall marketing spend, and tend to be far
more resilient to any cut backs as a result of a slow down in the major economies.
Your Board and management team remain highly focused on shareholder value. Our excellent record of
growth in sales, profit and earnings per share over the last two years and our prospects in 2008 and
beyond has, however, not made our share price immune from the recent stock market declines.
Consequently, we will continue to monitor the attractions of purchasing our own shares for cancellation
and have shown our confidence in the future by raising the 2007 dividend by 25% to 4.67p.
R F Littleboy 
Chairman
