 Chief Executive Q&A
Answerstocommonquestionsabout
the performance, future and strategy
of Optos.
1. Growth
Where will growth 
come from?
3. Products
How are your products 
differentiated?
Our P200MA device is a new 
imaging platform that produces 
the optomap® fa Medical 
Procedure. It opens new global 
market segments for us within the 
medical care segment. The doctor 
injects the patient with sodium 
fluorescein which rapidly works 
its way through the patient’s blood 
vessels and enables the doctor to 
dynamically and rapidly capture 
ultra wide-field images of the 
fluoresced blood vessels of the 
patient’s retina in real time. 
This device offers advanced image 
capture and review capabilities 
in disease diagnosis and treatment 
monitoring, and is clinically 
very useful in the diagnosis and 
management of diabetic patients 
by enabling doctors to carry out 
highly targeted partial pan-retinal 
photocoagulation. This will allow 
for new treatment paradigms 
and improved patient outcomes 
for diabetics. The optomap® 
fa Medical Procedure provides 
practitioners with access to 
reimbursement.
2. Business Model
How does your 
business model work?
Growth is always underpinned by a 
strong foundation, so let me start by 
talking about the fundamentals of our 
business: we are fast growing; we have 
significant competitive advantage; we 
have a strong recurring revenue model; 
and, we have proprietary technology. 
Fast growing is self-explanatory. 
Our competitive advantage is because 
there is no other diagnostic device that 
can capture a digital ultra wide-field 
image of approximately 82% of the 
retina at once. With approximately 85% 
of our revenue recurring each year we 
have good visibility and predictability 
and this provides for reliable growth 
and sustainable margin expansion.
Our technology is at the leading edge 
and enables healthcare practitioners 
to deliver a higher standard of care to 
their patients. 
We have four strategic imperatives 
designed to drive growth. We will 
deepen our penetration in our more 
established markets in the USA, Canada, 
Germany and the UK. This will be done 
through new installations of our devices 
and working closely with our customers 
to increase the number of optomap® 
Retinal Exams being performed in each 
customer practice location. We will 
look to gain share in our new markets, 
Spain, France, Switzerland and Norway. 
We have broadened our product 
offering with the optomap® fa Medical 
Procedure and this will allow us to 
establish a presence in the secondary 
and medical care markets. We will 
aggressively market this product to 
ophthalmologists in the USA, Germany, 
Switzerland, Spain and France. Finally, 
we will maintain high levels of customer 
satisfaction to drive contract renewal 
rates, which for the year stood at 89%.
We believe that our ongoing, 
service-driven relationship with 
healthcare practitioners is a key 
strength. Initially, practitioners 
typically enter into initial minimum 
three-year pay-per-patient agreements 
with the Company.
These agreements enable the 
practitioners to use our devices 
in their practices and offer the 
optomap® Retinal Exam to their 
patients. Optos receives revenue 
from the sale of the optomap® 
Retinal Exam by the practitioner to 
the patient, subject to a minimum 
monthly payment over the life of 
the agreement, and thus benefits 
from a recurring revenue model. 
We provide ongoing clinical, 
educational and marketing resources, 
as well as ongoing technical 
assistance, to support the practitioner 
in increasing the number of patients 
they see and to maximise adoption 
rates of the optomap® Retinal Exam. 
As a result, practices have no 
capital outlay and benefit from 
an increase in practice revenue. 
We also sell a small number of our 
devices to certain specialist customers 
on a capital sales basis, whose 
business practice specifies a capital 
purchase model. Recurring revenue 
is also generated from these customer 
locations through service and upgrade 
agreements. Devices installed 
on a capital sales basis represent 
approximately 3% of our total 
installed base. 
Our P200 device generates the 
optomap® Retinal Exam, and is 
used in primary care and wellness 
screening. It is a patient pay at 
point of service examination. 
Unlike conventional ways of looking 
at the retina, the P200 device provides 
a high-resolution ultra wide-field 
digital image that encompasses 
approximately 82% of the retina in 
a single capture. This enables the 
practitioner to view a substantial 
portion of the retina all at once and 
facilitate the early detection of disease 
from the centre to the periphery of 
the retina. These diseases include 
age-related macular degeneration, 
diabetes, hypertension, retinal 
detachments and tears, and certain 
cancers. An image from the optomap® 
Retinal Exam image can be captured 
in a quarter of a second and does 
not require pupil dilation, whereas 
conventional retinal imaging takes 
longer, is more invasive, typically 
captures about 5% of the retina 
at once and is altogether less 
patient-friendly. Critically, the 
optomap® Retinal Exam image 
is digitally retained, thus making 
comparisons with future examinations 
very straightforward in monitoring any 
changes to the patient’s health.
optomap® plus Medical Retinal Exam 
is also performed by the P200 and 
is used in secondary care, using 
additional capabilities in the image 
capture and review process to facilitate 
diagnosis and documentation of 
previously detected pathology. 
This exam provides access to medical 
reimbursement.
Optos plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 4 4. Culture
Is Optos changing as it becomes 
a more mature company?
Our aim is to ensure that the 
optomap® Retinal Exam becomes 
the accepted standard of care 
in primary care. In those patient 
examinations where pathology 
exhibits, our optomap® plus Medical 
Retinal Exam provides practitioners 
with additional capabilities in the 
image capture and review process. 
This facilitates diagnosis and 
documentation. This new product 
was rolled out to our customer base 
in North America in 2007 and usage 
is expected to increase substantially 
in the coming financial year. We will 
launch the P200MA and the 
Left: Melanomas (circled) can grow 
undetected within the retina. If discovered 
early, these masses can be treated before they 
cause serious damage and spread to other 
areas of the body through the bloodstream.
5. Outlook
What does the future 
hold for Optos?
optomap® fa Medical Procedure 
in early 2008. This is a very exciting 
new imaging platform that holds 
much promise, particularly for 
diabetic patients and how doctors 
will be able to treat the disease in a 
much more targeted and efficient 
way. This will result in significantly 
improved patient outcomes.
We are very excited about the 
opportunities that lie ahead. Let’s first 
consider some data and some of the 
key business drivers. 
In the United States, our largest market, 
the economic impact associated with 
adult vision problems is immense – 
$51.4 billion in 2007 . There are 70 million 
citizens aged 55 or over, there are 
20 million diabetic patients and macular 
degeneration is the leading cause of 
blindness in adults over 55. Currently, 
diabetic retinopathy affects over 
5 million Americans and, in addition to 
the impact that the disease can have on 
quality of life, diabetic retinopathy costs 
$490 million annually in direct costs for 
outpatient, inpatient and prescription 
drug services. Increased incidence of 
disease is directly associated with an 
aging population and driven by lifestyle 
choices, with many downstream 
consequences. General awareness 
of prevention is another driver, 
which is resulting in a public health 
shift whereby patients are taking more 
interest in and greater control of their 
personal healthcare. Technological 
advancement aids earlier detection of 
pathology and provides new avenues 
for monitoring and managing disease. 
What excites us is that our technology 
and the ultra wide-field image of 
the retina that our devices capture 
respond directly and uniquely to these 
trends and to the need for earlier stage 
detection and diagnosis of both eye 
and non-eye diseases. We know that 
regular screening and preventative 
care plays a vital role in preventing loss 
of sight and detecting the onset of 
systemic disease. 
Yes, change is inevitable as a company 
grows in size and expands into new 
geographic markets. We are doing well 
at managing our growth. But let me 
talk about the things we care about 
at Optos, things that will not change, 
regardless of where we operate. 
At all points in our development, 
we keep reminding ourselves of 
the things that it takes to succeed: 
integrity, passion for innovation; 
commitment to helping our 
customers deliver a higher standard 
of healthcare; making Optos a great 
place to work; setting goals and 
objectives; and, accountability and 
delivery. These are very important at 
Optos and the heart of our culture 
comes from these things.
Traditionally, we have been strong 
in some of these areas: integrity, 
our passion for innovation and our 
commitment to our customers have 
never been in shortage. We have also 
been good at ensuring we provide 
a good working environment for 
our employees and in setting clear 
goals and objectives. We work hard 
at being accountable in our delivery 
and are very focused on continuous 
improvement. At every opportunity 
I remind people that we have to strive 
to improve on all of these fronts.
Optos plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 5
