 Optos plc Annual report and accounts 2011 08
Overview
Business review
Governance
Financial statements
Business review
Chief Executive’s review
Accelerating 
growth in our 
core business
In brief
•  We delivered a significant 
increase in both revenues 
and profits
•   We expanded into several 
new markets
•   We developed a growing body of 
clinical evidence that demonstrates 
the critical importance of 
retinal diagnostics
•   We made strong progress 
towards becoming the leading 
retinal diagnostics company
Overview
The strong growth in our revenues, increasing 
35% from $106.3m in 2010 to $143.3m this year, 
reflects the successful implementation of a number 
of key strategic changes during the past year. 
New business models 
Our customers have responded well to the 
alternative business models we now offer. Many 
are still happy to work with our pay-per-patient 
rental model, but we are seeing an increasing 
trend towards the new alternatives such as 
fixed rental contracts, rent-to-own or outright 
purchases of the devices. We believe this 
contributed to the low levels of customers 
choosing to de-install their devices, with only 
around 5% of our customers returning their 
products at the end of the contract term 
compared to 10% the previous year.
Improved core products 
At the beginning of this year, our sales team 
focused only on selling our core ultra-widefield 
imaging devices to a customer base focused 
largely on optometry. We armed our teams with an 
improvement to our base P200 device, the 200Dx. 
Many customers chose to acquire the 200Dx 
upgrade, which offers improved image quality, 
either on a new contract, through purchase or upon 
renewing their existing contracts. Others chose 
the P200 which was priced more competitively. 
We also acquired additional products, initially 
through a distribution deal with Accutome, then 
through the purchase in December 2010 of the 
Australian company, Opto Global Pty Holdings Ltd, 
and further through our in-house development 
of the image management and archiving product, 
OptosAdvance. This range of products gave 
the sales team the opportunity to attract new 
customers and retain existing contacts.
Expanding into ophthalmology  
Our P200C devices remain popular with clinical 
optometrists and general ophthalmologists, 
particularly in the Canadian and German markets. 
Additionally, Optos chose to focus significant 
efforts on the ophthalmologist and retinal 
 “  We have expanded into 
several new markets, 
whilst building our 
product portfolio both 
through acquisition and 
organic development.”
Roy Davis  
Chief Executive Officer
_4_OPTS_ar11_front_[Jenny.Lesley.sh].indd   8 17/01/2012   11:06:30 Optos plc Annual report and accounts 2011 09
Overview
Business review
Governance
Financial statements
specialist sectors with the launch and promotion 
of the 200Tx device promoted solely to those 
customers. A specialist six-person sales team 
was established to lead the sales efforts into 
this marketplace in North America, supported 
by the broader sales team. 
The clinical information delivered by the images 
from these devices, including our standard 
optomap® images derived using red and green 
lasers, together with fluorescein angiography 
images using blue laser technology (disclosing 
information about the vasculature of the retina) 
and auto-fluorescence (delivering information 
about the metabolic state of the retinal cells 
and their health) all in the widefield is attracting 
significant medical interest. We are pleased to 
have placed over 140 of the 200Tx devices. 
The additional Opto Global products used by 
ophthalmologists, including treatment lasers 
and surgical microscopes, are helping to 
establish Optos in the ophthalmology sector.
Geographic expansion  
We took significant steps towards expanding 
our geographic reach. Sales representatives 
were recruited in new territories in Europe, 
including Austria and the Netherlands, and the 
sales teams strengthened in our other direct 
markets, being Germany, UK, Switzerland, 
Sweden, Norway and Spain. Our European 
presence was further strengthened through the 
appointment of distributors and dealers in Italy 
and Poland. Opto Global brought us an extensive 
international distributor network, including in 
Europe, Middle East and Africa. It also brought 
us a direct footprint in Australia, a market for 
which we see great potential. The 200Tx product 
also brought us our first sales in the important 
Japanese market where we appointed a 
strong distributor. 
Expanding our product range  
In October 2011, we completed the acquisition of 
the business and assets of OPKO Instrumentation, 
bringing access to established OCT and ultrasound 
products together with a product pipeline including 
a lower-cost OCT product (Falcon) nearing market 
launch. We are excited by this acquisition, as 
we believe that Optos’ widefield retinal imaging 
technology, combined with the specific data that 
can be derived from OCT images, has the potential 
to offer eyecare professionals the most powerful 
tools for disease diagnosis and management. 
We were also proud to deliver our leading 
development project, Daytona, on schedule. 
This project, conceived two years ago, set out to 
deliver a desk-top sized version of our widefield 
SLO scanning device. Our objective was to create 
a product that would deliver images of a quality 
as high as the P200C device, would capture the 
same widefield view of the retina, would be robust, 
manufacturable in volume, with auto-fluorescence 
imaging, run from new, intuitive software and would 
offer a device that could be used by customers 
globally regardless of practice size or physical 
or climatic environment. We unveiled Daytona as 
planned In October and are set to ship product to 
customers before the end of the first half of 2012.
Research and development  
Our R&D activities are driven from Scotland 
and our team is now some 45 strong, including 
the software and hardware engineers who 
joined with OCT business just after the year end. 
Significant projects delivered this year include 
Daytona and OptosAdvance.
In 2011 we gained additional patent protection 
for our core widefield imaging technology, 
extending the SLO core patent claims through 
2027. The focus in 2012 is to deliver Daytona 
at volume, add additional imaging modalities to 
our 200Tx device and deliver the next generation 
Falcon OCT devices, ensuring full integration of 
the recently acquired assets and devices. 
Our sales team is now over 90 strong, with 
clinical experts supporting and training all 
representatives to allow them to deliver 
excellent support to clinicians. 
          Benefits
Visibility  
of future  
income
Business 
models
Pay‑ per‑ patient                      Flexible leases
Income visibility 
plus the upside  
of variable  
optomap
®
  
charges
                     Outright purchase                     
Summary and outlook
During the last financial year we have delivered 
a significant increase in both revenues and 
profits whilst making important investments in 
the long-term growth of the business. We have 
expanded into several new markets, whilst building 
our product portfolio both through acquisition and 
organic development. At the same time, we have 
developed a growing body of clinical evidence that 
demonstrates the critical importance of retinal 
diagnostics. Overall, we are pleased with our 
progress towards becoming the leading retinal 
diagnostics company and are increasingly confident 
about Optos’ long-term growth prospects.
Roy Davis
Chief Executive Officer
21 November 2011
 
Improved cash flow 
and upside from 
service contracts
 Gives customers the choice to fix payments
   but benefit from rental terms
           Benefits
 Allows customers a lower fixed rental and reducing
 price per optomap with higher patient volumes 
     Allows customers choice and means no 
 
             Benefits
     additional charges regardless of volume
_4_OPTS_ar11_front_[Jenny.Lesley.sh].indd   9 17/01/2012   11:06:31
