 Earlier and better detection is assuming greater importance in eye and healthcare. Our technology supports
healthcare practitioners in their commitment to providing state-of-the-art, efficient and thorough clinical
patient care and offers them enhanced diagnostic, monitoring and treatment capabilities at an earlier stage
– this can help save sight and save lives.
Focused on delivering leading retinal imaging technology
Chairman’s Statement
Dr John M. Padfield
2007 was another outstanding year 
for Optos plc with revenue up by 
28% on the year to $86.8 million, 
28% growth in our total installed 
base to 3,367 medical devices and 
a continuing strong rate of contract 
renewals at 89% for the year. We are 
delighted to deliver a $1.6 million 
profit before tax compared to a loss 
of $1.1 million last year. 
Retinal Disease
Retinal disease is growing rapidly. 
Macular degeneration and diabetes 
are at the epidemic stage in the USA. 
Macular degeneration is the leading 
cause of blindness in adults over 
55 and over 20 million Americans 
have diabetes. Another 6 million are 
unaware they have diabetes. 
The current ability to conduct a 
medical examination of the inside 
of the eye is severely limited. 
Conventional examinations 
use devices such as a direct 
ophthalmoscope or fundus camera. 
These devices are limited in what they 
can capture and typically only a very 
small area of the retina can be seen at 
any one time. This inability to inspect 
a greater area of the retina without 
excessive manipulation raises the 
possibility of missing the early signs 
of retinal disease. 
Diagnostics
Medical diagnostics has developed 
in its importance in recent years. 
More and more, practitioners 
and patients are looking to earlier 
diagnosis to detect disease and to 
monitor treatment. Optos has been 
able to establish a unique position 
in the diagnostics space through its 
patented scanning laser technology, 
which enables healthcare practitioners 
to capture an ultra wide-field view 
of the retina. This assists with the 
earlier detection and diagnosis of 
both eye and non-eye diseases 
evidenced in the retina, in tracking 
and monitoring the development of 
diseases and in optimising treatment 
plans through ongoing evaluation. 
Keeping patients healthier longer 
reduces hospitalisations and avoids 
the increased costs associated with 
chronic care. 
Focus on the Future
Optos continued to invest for 
the future in 2007 through the 
development of new products and 
strengthening our infrastructure 
for expansion into new geographic 
markets. This, along with our ever-
present focus on delivering the 
highest levels of customer service, 
is what will drive our growth.
Products
During the year, approximately 
4 million optomap® Retinal Exams 
were conducted by our customers in 
the primary care market. Secondary 
and medical care offer exciting new 
opportunities in disease management, 
which opens new global market 
segments. We completed the 
integration of the optomap® plus
Medical Retinal Exam into our 
customer base. Retinal specialists 
comprise a sub-specialty in the 
medical market, which we started 
addressing with our P200MA device. 
This is a new ultra wide-field imaging 
platform on which retinal specialists 
can perform the optomap® fa Medical 
Procedure. It will be particularly useful 
in the diagnosis and management 
of diabetic patients, enabling new 
treatment paradigms and improved 
patient outcomes. Endocrinologists 
also treat diabetes with diet and 
medications, including insulin. 
They work closely with patients to 
control blood sugar and monitor 
them so that they can prevent health 
problems. Endocrinology offers 
Optos another medical sub-speciality 
opportunity for the P200MA device. 
Markets
We completed our market research 
and trial placements of our retinal 
imaging devices in France, Spain, 
Switzerland and Norway. Expanding 
into these markets fits with the 
Company’s strategic plan and will 
augment the growth that is being 
generated by our more established 
European business in Germany and 
the UK. We are extremely excited 
about the opportunity in each of 
these new markets, which offer 
growth potential in primary, 
secondary and medical care. 
Corporate Governance
I am very focused on ensuring that 
the Board defines the best strategic 
value for the Company and its 
shareholders. While boards will always 
be required to spend time and energy 
on the compliance and due diligence 
functions, this should not be at the 
expense of the time devoted to the 
advisory assistance that boards can 
provide to management. While these 
oversight functions are being fully 
carried out by the Board, we continue 
to place emphasis on engaging our 
Directors in strategic dialogue to 
ensure that the Company benefits 
from our collective experience. 
Our approach of striking the absolute 
right balance of oversight and 
strategic counsel will continue.
The Board
The Board welcomed Thomas W. 
Butts, Saad H. Hammad and 
Rosalyn S. Wilton as directors this year. 
The Board was delighted to have 
recruited an executive of Tom Butts’ 
calibre as Chief Executive Officer. 
Tom has a very strong understanding 
of the global healthcare marketplace 
and direct experience in the United 
States, our largest market. As non-
executive Directors, Saad and Ros 
bring extensive commercial, operating 
and strategic international business 
experience to the Company. They are 
very important additions to Optos and 
their combined experience is already 
proving to be of considerable value 
to the Company as it grows into new 
market segments and geographies. 
During the year, Ian Stevens stepped 
down from the Board following 
the completion of his international 
assignment as General Manager of our 
business operation in North America.
Our People 
The Board thanks Tom, 
his management team and all 
of our employees for another 
tremendous year. The results the 
Company produced in 2007 rely 
upon the dedication and commitment 
of an exceptional group of people 
who work hard every day to make us 
a better medical devices company; 
one that is making a real difference 
by helping healthcare professionals 
deliver a higher standard of clinical 
care to their patients.
Optos has a very exciting future;
we are looking forward to 2008.
Dr John M. Padfield
Chairman
“ Opt o s h a s b e en able t o establi s h
auniquepositioninthediagnostics
spacethroughitspatented
scanning laser technology,
which enables healthcare
practitioners to capture an ultra
wide-field view of the retina.”
Optos plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 6 Malignant Choroidal Melanoma 
and Retinal Detachment
The optomap® Retinal Exam was instrumental in 
detecting the detachment and the subsequent detection 
and diagnosis of the cancer. The child’s mother credits the 
optomap® Retinal Exam for discovering the melanoma, 
which if left undetected, could have resulted in her 
daughter losing her life.
“Theoptomap® Retinal Exam
is an integral diagnostic tool
and would be beneficial to
anymodalityofpractice.”
Dr Scott Thiele, Jacksonville, FL
An 8-year old girl presented with a slight blur in the vision 
of her right eye. There were no other symptoms. To perform 
a thorough dilated examination on a child is extremely 
difficult. This was her first eye examination and her parents 
were reluctant to have her eyes dilated. 
Dr Thiele ordered the optomap® Retinal Exam as part of 
his protocol for conducting a comprehensive examination. 
He discovered a large retinal detachment. Based on her age 
and the size of the detachment Dr Thiele thought cancer 
was a possibility. He immediately referred her to Wills Eye 
Hospital for further assessment. The differential diagnosis 
was a retinal detachment caused by a malignant choroidal 
melanoma. Unfortunately, her eye had to be enucleated to 
remove the tumour. The young girl now visits her medical 
doctor twice a year, and this doctor has confirmed that 
while it is 99% certain that the eye was the primary lesion 
she will need to be free of any cancer cells for a good 
number of years before being considered in full remission. 
Case Study 1
Dr Scott Thiele
Optos plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 7
