 Optos plc Annual report and accounts 2011 06
Overview
Chairman’s statement
During this year Optos has successfully 
achieved substantial growth of its business, 
whilst investing in a range of additional 
complementary technologies. The expansion of 
the widefield retinal scanning business has been 
driven by both the well-received launch of a new 
high-performance device, the 200Tx, and by the 
introduction of new business models which are 
assisting optometrists and ophthalmologists to 
access this technology. These advances have 
delivered significant increases in both revenues 
and profits. 
Our core widefield scanning devices are  
well established, with over 4,200 devices 
now installed in optometry and ophthalmology 
practices in the markets that we serve, a growth 
of some 8% during the year. Over 32 million 
widefield retinal digital optomap® examinations 
have now been performed by eyecare specialists, 
underlining both the efficacy and utility of our 
core technology. 
Throughout the year we have continued to focus 
upon our customers’ requirements by introducing 
a much-enhanced range of pricing, rental and 
purchase options. We have expanded our sales 
force, moving into new territories in Europe and 
Australia, and established a new team addressing 
retinal specialists in North America. The acquisition 
of Opto Global Pty Holdings Ltd was completed 
in December 2010 and we have been selling 
the Opto Global product range throughout 2011, 
both directly and through the network of 
distributors we acquired with the business. 
In brief
•  Over 4,200 widefield scanning 
devices installed with optometrists 
and ophthalmologists
•  We have expanded our sales 
force, moving into new territories 
and new segments
•  The acquisition of Opto Global 
was completed in December 2010 
and followed by the acquisition 
of OCT products in October 2011
•  We launched the 200Tx to 
ophthalmology customers and 
unveiled Daytona on schedule
 “  Advances in our 
range of products 
and business models 
delivered significant 
increases in both 
revenues and profits.”
Dr Peter Fellner 
Chairman
We have established 
a strong platform 
from which to build 
our business
_4_OPTS_ar11_front_[Jenny.Lesley.sh].indd   6 17/01/2012   11:06:27 Optos plc Annual report and accounts 2011 07
Overview
Business review
Governance
Financial statements
Our newly launched 200Tx device has performed 
strongly, attracting customers in our direct markets, 
and has enabled us to address important export 
markets such as Japan, one of the largest 
markets in the world for medical devices. 
Increasing flows of strong clinical data have 
demonstrated the importance of widefield fundus 
imaging in the management and treatment of 
disease. We believe that widefield auto-fluorescence 
images provide clinicians with valuable additional 
information relating to the health of retinal cells, 
which makes the use of our technology even more 
compelling for ophthalmologists and optometrists 
worldwide. We can also now supply treatment 
laser products, surgical microscopes and corneal 
cross-linking products to our clinician customers. 
We believe strongly that Optos’ growing range 
of products can make an important difference 
to ophthalmologists, vitreo-retinal specialists 
and their patients. 
Within our optometry customer base, the Opto 
Global visual acuity and perimetry products are 
competitive with similar products, and give our 
sales force an expanded offering alongside the 
core P200 and 200Dx scanning devices. We have 
further enhanced our product range by offering 
new software features such as OptosAdvance, 
which provides optometrists secure, web-based 
storage of images that can be reviewed remotely. 
In September 2011, we announced the proposed 
acquisition of additional diagnostic imaging 
devices from OPKO Health Inc. including optical 
coherence tomography (“OCT”) and ultrasound 
devices, together with a strong development pipeline. 
This acquisition was completed in October 2011 
and the integration of that business into Optos
is moving forward rapidly. We are excited by 
the potential that these products offer in all of 
our customer segments. In order to finance this 
acquisition, we put in place a $30m, three-year 
revolving credit facility which will allow the 
business to be funded on a more conventional 
and cost-effective basis. 
As a result of these initiatives, we delivered 
revenues of $143.3m for the year ended 
30 September 2011 compared to $106.3m 
in the previous year. On a like-for-like basis, 
ignoring the impacts of the Opto Global acquisition 
and of finance lease accounting, revenue growth 
was over 25%, driven by capital sales. The 
acquisitions of Opto Global and the OPKO Health 
assets resulted in exceptional expenses of $2.4m 
in the year. These were offset by a $1.75m credit 
relating to a reassessment of the likely deferred 
consideration payable to the former shareholders 
of Opto Global. Pre-tax profits before exceptional 
items were $22.7m compared to $12.7m in the 
previous year, with basic earnings per share after 
tax and exceptional items increasing to 32.1c 
compared with 20.0c in the previous year. 
Looking forward to the next financial year, we 
believe that our next generation ultra-widefield 
retinal scanner, Daytona, will enable Optos to 
achieve a further major transition, assisting the 
international expansion of the business. Daytona is 
a desk-top sized high-specification, high-resolution 
device that is modular, robust, reliable and patient 
friendly. It can deliver images of a quality similar 
to or better than our P200C device, including 
auto-fluorescence imaging, which is proving 
so valuable to eyecare specialists. We promised 
to unveil the product in October 2011 and were 
delighted to deliver on that promise. 
The scheduled commercial shipment of Daytona 
products remains on track for the first quarter 
of 2012. Our expanded sales teams are looking 
forward to selling Daytona, alongside our new 
OCT products and existing device range. 
I would like to thank Patrick Paul, who retired 
as a Non-executive Director during the year, for 
his significant contributions to the growth and 
development of the Company, and to welcome 
John Goddard and David Wilson to the Optos 
Board as Non-executive Directors. I would also 
thank our investors for their support during the 
past year and our employees for their outstanding 
efforts which have underpinned the advances 
achieved within the business. 
We look forward to the next year with 
confidence. The impending launch of Daytona 
and an extended product range, including OCT, 
will arm our sales and marketing organisation 
with a range of highly competitive devices, 
which will further strengthen our position 
in the retinal healthcare field.
Dr Peter Fellner
Chairman
21 November 2011
 
0
Total shareholder return
— 
—  
2009 2010 2011
25
50
75
100
125
150
175
200
225
  
  
FTSE Small Cap Index
Optos plc
_4_OPTS_ar11_front_[Jenny.Lesley.sh].indd   7 17/01/2012   11:06:27
