 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Optos plc Annual report and accounts 2013 23
The new Daytona has been designed to be accommodated within smaller 
office spaces and to increase patient comfort, whilst still providing high 
resolution imaging and adding new auto-fluorescence capabilities. 
The device has performed strongly in its first full year with over 1,100 
devices being sold or rented, clearly demonstrating that Daytona is 
a game-changing device for the Company.
We now have nearly 1,500 Daytona customers. During the year, we were 
delighted to enter into an additional agreement for a further 250 units with 
OPSM, the leading optometry chain in Australia and New Zealand which, 
when installed, will take their total to 410. We also agreed terms to supply 
100 Daytona devices to HVHC, Inc. for installation in its Visionworks 
optometry stores in the USA. 
Our near-term focus is to drive the sales of Daytona in all our key markets 
and continue to improve manufacturing efficiency.
As a result of delayed customer decision making, increased competition 
and economic conditions in certain territories, our Tx device sales were not 
as strong as we had anticipated. Other product sales were largely in line 
with expectations.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S REVIEW
A successful year of customer growth 
Roy Davis, Chief Executive Officer
2
During the year we continued to develop the ophthalmologist and retinal 
specialist segments, developing disease-specific offerings such as 
diabetic retinopathy, where we see significant opportunities. 
Although sales of the Tx device were subdued, we have made good 
progress in the segment, including some notable successes with Daytona 
within general ophthalmology as well as increasing our presence in the field 
of diabetic retinopathy. To accelerate the development of this important 
market in North America, we have embedded the ophthalmology 
specialists within the regional teams. Elsewhere, we continue to grow our 
ophthalmology presence in the key markets of Japan and the Middle East. 
Looking forward, we believe that corporate accounts, driven primarily 
by Daytona, represent a significant opportunity for Optos. In FY13, we have 
made good progress achieving substantial sales and orders from Vision 
Source and Visionworks in the US as well as the continued success at OPSM. 
1
We have seen a year of strong new customer growth, in particular with our new flagship 
product Daytona, which is gaining good traction. The difficult start to the year has meant 
that headline revenue and profits were lower than we had anticipated; however, we saw 
positive underlying performance with 4% growth and a healthy generation of cash, 
helping to reduce our net debt by 18%. 
Products Segments
Our strategy is 
based on leveraging 
our existing sales 
channel and growing 
both geographically 
and across different 
market segments. Optos plc Annual report and accounts 2013 24
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S 
REVIEW CONTINUED
Choice of business models
Our customers continue to respond well to the alternative business models 
we offer. The trend away from the traditional pay-per-patient model and 
towards outright purchases of the devices continues based on customer 
choice. In the year, we have seen an increase of 24% in capital sales. We have 
supported this through partnerships with finance companies to simplify the 
process for those customers wishing to own the equipment. 
The success of the Daytona device further expanding the portfolio of 
products and software allows the sales team to attract new customers and 
retain existing relationships. We have also seen a further reduction in the 
number of devices de-installed in the year to just 101 (FY12: 203) which 
represents less than 2% of the installed base (FY12: 4%). 
The success of the different business models, along with strong cost 
control, has resulted in a significantly improved cash performance 
compared to the previous year. Cash flow before tax, acquisition 
and financing activities was a $13.5m inflow (FY12: $1.8m outflow). 
3
We continue our expansion into new geographies, with territories 
outside of North America contributing 30% of total revenue in FY13, 
up from 25% last year. We also grew the International installed 
base by 58% during the year.
Americas
North America continues to be our main market and, although revenue was 
down in the year due to the reduced number of renewal opportunities, the 
installed base increased by 18%. We have also started to develop business 
in South America, which represents an excellent opportunity, particularly 
in Brazil.
International
In Europe, the picture has been mixed due to the challenging economic 
conditions. We have seen reasonable customer growth in Northern Europe, 
although not as strong as we would have liked, and in Southern Europe 
it has been difficult. The Middle East represents a significant opportunity 
for us, in particular around diabetes. We have, therefore, established 
a presence in Dubai to support this important future market.
The key international growth markets were Australia, through the 
OPSM contract, and Asia, where we continued to expand our presence 
in South Korea, Hong Kong and Taiwan, as well as maintaining strong 
sales in Japan, both for the Tx and Daytona devices. 
Geographies Customer 
choice
Software 
upgrades
Ongoing 
service 
revenues
Variable 
rental
Fixed
rental
Rental
renewal
Overages
Cash
conversion
Rental
Product
upgrade
Capital 
sale
Rental
Year 1 Year 2 onwards End of rental/future
Current 
revenue/
cash source
Future 
revenue/
cash source
During the year, we 
saw an increase of 
24% in capital sales, 
as customers continue 
to respond well to the 
various business 
How we generate revenue and cash
Strategic progress continued
Devices  
de-installed
<
2%
of installed 
base Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Optos plc Annual report and accounts 2013 25
demonstrated that one-third more lesions were found in the peripheral 
area outside of ETDRS seven standard fields. Additionally, in many of 
these patients, this led to a more severe grading of diabetic retinopathy. 
Thus, a great body of pathology is in the peripheral retina that would 
have been missed by standard technology. We believe that our ongoing 
research in diabetic eye disease and beyond will lead to more effective 
detection of disease at a stage at which treatment can prevent visual loss. 
In addition, we published a first study that demonstrates the ability of 
optomap-assisted examinations to outperform traditional retinal examinations 
and the first study to provide evidence that more effective detection of active 
vasculitis leads to earlier treatment and better patient outcomes. 
We are committed to focusing our clinical research to strengthening the pillars 
of detection and prevention of blindness due to diabetic retinopathy, as well 
as other diseases, and in changing the standards of care. 
Summary and outlook
Following a difficult start to the year, we delivered underlying revenue growth 
and improved cash generation whilst making good progress with the roll-out 
of Daytona. The 25% increase in our installed customer base – our largest 
annual increase yet – includes the placement of 1,145 Daytona devices and 
demonstrates the increasing value of our proprietary technology to eye 
healthcare professionals globally. 
Looking forward, we have a strong R&D pipeline and a growing body of 
clinical evidence demonstrating the critical importance of diagnostics in the 
retinal periphery and for the treatment and management of diseases such 
as diabetic retinopathy. During the next financial year we expect to:
 ΅ promote additional growth in the installed base with an increasing 
penetration within ophthalmology;
 ΅ deliver further reductions in the manufacturing cost of Daytona;
 ΅ continue to build the clinical evidence supporting UWF with a focus 
on specific disease areas; and
 ΅ continue improved cash generation.
With strong sales of Daytona, our new products progressing well, the building 
body of clinical evidence and a broadened geographical reach, the Board 
is confident that Optos is well placed to drive customer growth in FY14. 
Roy Davis
Chief Executive Officer
20 November 2013
Research and development 
We have made good progress on the combination of ultra-widefield 
retinal imaging technology with OCT into a single device, which has 
the potential to offer eyecare professionals the most powerful tools 
for disease diagnosis and management.
Following earlier demonstration of indo-cyanine green angiography (ICG) 
capability on our devices, which is important for imaging the deeper 
choroidal vessels in the eye and an important screen for aged-related 
macular degeneration used extensively in Asian markets, we have 
completed three highly successful clinical evaluations providing confidence 
to proceed with commercialisation of ICG on future products. This will be 
incorporated into “California”, the designated replacement for the 200Tx 
device, which will be based on the Daytona platform, and is a key product 
in our development pipeline.
Optomap images are at the very core of our offering and improving these 
images is an ongoing primary aim. During the last twelve months we have 
developed and demonstrated patent pending technology to deliver image 
quality improvements for current and future product platforms. This is 
complemented by a suite of test software that provides quantitative 
assessment of image quality to ensure optimal results.
Providing clinicians with targeted software tools, in many cases disease 
specific, to support better decisions and improved patient outcomes, will allow 
us to continue to differentiate our product offering. ProView, our patented 
method for displaying optomap images, addresses the inherent bias in any 
curved surface when displayed on a flat plane and will be the building block 
which will underpin a suite of imaging tools. It introduces capabilities such 
as accurate measurement of retinal features, registration of images across 
imaging modalities and platforms, a software method for automated montage 
and blending of central and eye steered images, thereby providing a complete 
view of the patient’s retina. Work is also progressing on diabetic retinopathy 
grading software.
The significance of the peripheral retina in diabetic 
retinopathy (and beyond)
We are committed to further strengthening our clinical evidence and 
expanding our disease indications whilst demonstrating the importance 
of imaging the entire retina. Historical medical literature has suggested 
that some of the earliest clinical changes in diabetic retinopathy may 
occur in the peripheral retina. This year, with UWF optomap, we have 
been able to provide evidence for the first time to prove this premise. 
We published results from a clinical study comparing our ultra-widefield 
imaging to Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) protocol 
fundus photography. This study, completed by Harvard University, 
