 Chief Executive Officer’s review
Introduction
Through the recent sale of its Critical Care Division, Osmetech has capitalised on the considerable value
created in that business since its acquisition from Roche Diagnostics, Inc. in 2003. Following its sale, the
Group is now wholly focussed on its Molecular Diagnostics business operating in Pasadena and Boston
in the US.
Sale of Critical Care Division
2006 was another year of strong profitable growth for the Critical Care Division. Sales of the blood gas
and electrolyte product range increased to £10.5m ($19.4m) in 2006 from £5.6m ($9.9m) for the 8 month
period ended 31 December 2005. Sales increased by 29% when compared to the equivalent 12 month
period in 2005 of £8.1m, benefiting in particular from VetStat sales to our veterinary distribution partner,
IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. (‘IDEXX’).
Notwithstanding the highly satisfactory operating performance of the Division this year, on 18 December
2006, we announced the proposed sale of the Critical Care Division to IDEXX for $44.9m in cash. This
sale was approved by shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting on 9 January 2007 and the
transaction was completed on 31 January 2007.
The Critical Care Division was originally acquired by Osmetech in April 2003 for $2.7m before costs.
During the period of Osmetech’s ownership, sales more than doubled and a loss making business was
transformed into profitability. This was achieved principally through selective new product investment
and the launch of the VetStat in the veterinary market with IDEXX. Osmetech’s developing commercial
relationship with IDEXX presented an opportunity to sell the Division at an attractive price, representing
a substantial return on investment.
Your Board considered that this divestment was in the best interests of the Group as a whole, delivering
the following benefits:
• Realises excellent value creation for shareholders
• Removes any shareholder concerns over the Group’s funding requirements and strengthens its
balance sheet
• Provides the necessary funding to enable the continued development of a successful Molecular
Diagnostics business
• Osmetech is now well positioned in a high growth market sector with potentially high returns
Molecular Diagnostics Market
The molecular diagnostics market is expected to continue to be the fastest growing segment within In
Vitro Diagnostics (IVD). With an estimated global market worth of $2.6bn in 2006, it is approaching 10%
of the total IVD market and exhibiting annual growth rates of approximately 20%. Infectious disease and
genetic testing are the two most rapidly growing areas for molecular diagnostics accounting for
approximately half of the overall market segment.
Osmetech is primarily targeting genetic testing, which can be divided broadly into three areas:
• Diagnosis and Monitoring – evaluating genetic sequences to confirm the presence or progress of
disease
• Susceptibility – evaluating genetic mutations to determine susceptibility to a future condition (e.g.,
cystic fibrosis)
• Pharmacogenetics – evaluating genetic variations to predict a patient’s response to a particular drug
Osmetech Annual Report and Accounts 2006 3 Chief Executive Officer’s review
continued
Pharmacogenetics or ‘personalised medicine’ is widely anticipated to grow rapidly as treatments are
more closely tailored to a patient’s genetic make-up. For example, Osmetech is developing a genetic
test relevant for the anticoagulant Warfarin where the market opportunity is substantial. Optimal doses
of Warfarin vary among patients with incorrect starting dosages prescribed for 20% of patients, resulting
in either insufficient or excessive blood thinning.
Warfarin testing is expected to lead to a reduction in the 85,000 cases of severe bleeding and 17,000
strokes occurring annually in the US and could decrease national healthcare spending by $1.1bn per
year as estimated by the American Enterprise Institute and the Brookings Institute. More than 30m
prescriptions for Warfarin are given annually in the US alone with 3m new patients each year suffering
from a heart attack or stroke. The total annual number of patients worldwide with conditions for which
Warfarin could potentially be prescribed is 8.5m.
Pharmacogenetics is also expected to play a larger role in drug development through the identification
of genetic mutations and creation of “companion” diagnostics.
Molecular Diagnostics Division
Osmetech is developing a strong, complementary portfolio of FDA-approved and development-stage
products that address the rapidly growing molecular diagnostics market.
We plan to expand and develop the Division through the following means:
• Progress with the development and commercialisation of the Group’s existing product pipeline
including the second generation instrument platform, the eSensor
®
XT-8
• Secure licensing agreements that will add assay content, and therefore revenues, for the Group’s
instrument platforms
• Continue to explore selective acquisition opportunities which will strengthen and expand the
Group’s presence in the molecular diagnostics market
• Negotiate licensing agreements and enter into strategic partnerships in non-healthcare markets, thereby
leveraging the strength of the Group’s instrument platforms, technology and intellectual property
Osmetech’s two instrument platforms, eSensor
®
and GeneSensor™ (previously known as OPTI GENE)
are directly targeting the demand for decentralised testing by providing practical, cost effective
molecular diagnostic technologies and tools that will enable a broader range of hospitals and
laboratories to offer molecular diagnostic services. Our strategy has been to design low cost products
specifically for the diagnostics market rather than by adapting complicated high cost research 
products.
eSensor
®
The eSensor
®
instrument and cartridge consumable system is primarily suited to undertaking relatively
complex molecular tests which require the analysis, detection or identification of many different targets
at once. The electrochemical detection technology is protected by strong international intellectual
property, including 70 patents in the US alone, which have benefited from an investment of
approximately $100m by Motorola during its period of ownership.
Earlier this year Osmetech received 510(k) clearance from the US FDA for its Cystic Fibrosis carrier
detection test and its eSensor
®
4800 DNA Detection instrument platform. This FDA approval is a first for
a combined instrument and consumable Cystic Fibrosis assay. The system assesses whether an individual
carries mutations in the Cystic Fibrosis gene and is used by adult couples contemplating pregnancy.
The core technology for the instrument platform and microarray consumable forming part of this
approval will also be used for running tests for other conditions to be launched in the future.
4 Osmetech Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executive Officer’s review
continued
eSensor
®
XT-8
Later this year we shall be introducing our second generation instrument, the eSensor
®
XT-8 with new
consumable cartridge, which will be able to routinely run complex assays including the Cytochrome P450
(“CYP 450”) pharmacogenomics assays described later.
The eSensor
®
XT-8 system will deliver a number of operational, design and performance benefits
including:
• Significant reduction in processing time
• Smaller foot print
• Modular and expandable with higher throughput potential
• Integrated CPU
• Programmable eSensor
®
cartridge
• Increased chip density to enable wider analysis of gene mutations
• Improved data management capabilities
A successful third party evaluation for a fully functional prototype XT-8 instrument and our first CYP450
assay for Warfarin testing took place in December 2006. We now plan to exhibit the platform at the
Clinical Virology Symposium in the US next month moving to clinical trials in support of an FDA
submission in the third quarter of 2007. Following FDA approval, we anticipate a launch in the US by the
end of 2007 with an international launch scheduled for 2008.
SensiTube™
The SensiTube™ product line, previously known as OPTI TUBE™, consists of plastic tubes and
ergonomically designed sealing caps and carousel for use in the Roche LightCycler, a market leading
instrument used in PCR analysis. SensiTube™ is a cost effective, robust alternative to Roche glass
capillaries that eliminates the dangers of glass breakage and minimises the risk of laboratory personnel
being exposed to potentially dangerous samples and glass shards. The same plastic technology has
been incorporated into consumables to be supplied for use with Osmetech’s GeneSensor™ instrument.
Osmetech has also granted a worldwide non-exclusive license to Roche for the manufacture and sale of
plastic consumable vials using this proprietary plastic tube technology, in respect of which the Company
has recently been granted its first patent.
GeneSensor™
The GeneSensor™ instrument is primarily suited to undertaking relatively simple molecular tests. Whilst
our primary objective is to further develop the commercial potential for our eSensor
®
system, we plan to
fully launch the GeneSensor™ as a research instrument later this year followed by the introduction of an
FDA-cleared instrument and accompanying Factor V and Factor II IVD tests for thrombophilia in early
2008. In time we expect that the instrument platform and proprietary consumable will be used for
testing a wide range of conditions.
The combination of the eSensor
®
and GeneSensor™ products should enable both complex and simple
molecular diagnostic tests to be performed accurately by hospitals in a cost effective and easy to use
format. Unlike many competing products, the two products combine both an instrument platform and
proprietary test specific consumables. New tests launched will use the same instrument platform and
consumable format thereby increasing sales revenues for each instrument in use.
Osmetech Annual Report and Accounts 2006 5  Chief Executive Officer’s review
continued
The increase in administrative expenses and operating loss for the continuing operations of the Group
for 2006 reflects both the comparison with an 8 month period for 2005 and the inclusion of the results of
Clinical Micro Sensors, Inc for a full 12-month period following its acquisition on 26 July 2005. We
anticipate that administrative expenses for continuing operations will show a marginal increase in 2007
as more of our Molecular Division’s products reach commercialisation.
The operating loss for the period of £12.4m compared to a net cash outflow from operating activities of
£11.2m, with the difference of £1.2m largely explained by the share compensation charge of £0.8m, a
non-cash item accounted for in accordance with Financial Reporting Standards No.20, “Share Based
Payment” (FRS 20). Also in accordance with FRS 20 we have restated the prior year charge for share
compensation charges.
At 31 December 2006, cash and liquid resources were £7.1m. Following the receipt of the proceeds (net
of expenses) from the sale of the Critical Care Division, cash and liquid resources on 31 January 2007
were £27.5m. The majority of our cash and liquid resources are denominated in US dollars and will be
retained as such to meet the anticipated funding requirements of our Molecular Diagnostics Division
arising in the same currency.
We have announced today that we have agreed to acquire the warrants issued to Motorola as
consideration for the acquisition of Clinical Micro Sensors in July 2005. The warrants are over 7,811,428
ordinary shares (representing 3.85% of the issued share capital) and will be cancelled by the Company
thereby removing any dilution effects that would result from their exercise. The cash cost to the
Company is approximately £469,000, representing 6 pence per warrant which were exercisable into
ordinary shares at 17.5 pence.
Outlook
The importance of the developing global Molecular Diagnostics market with high product margin
potential is becoming increasingly recognised by healthcare companies, for example GeneOhm and TM
BioSciences were recently acquired by larger players. Furthermore, healthcare giant Abbott Laboratories
recently announced that it was to sell its core laboratory diagnostics business to GE Healthcare but
would retain its Molecular Diagnostics and Diabetes Care (glucose monitoring) businesses. It is also
likely that the growth of “companion” diagnostics in the pharmacogenomics market segment will lead
to closer alliances with pharmaceutical companies.
The sale of our Critical Care blood gas and electrolyte analyser business has enabled Osmetech to
become a ‘pure play’, well funded molecular diagnostics business operating in a high growth market.
The Company’s recent business development activities have given Osmetech the financial flexibility to
execute its strategy of building a portfolio of commercial-stage molecular diagnostic products. We
expect to be able to add further content in order to develop a pipeline of new molecular diagnostic
tests to be run on the Company’s instrument platforms. In addition, we anticipate that we will be able to
secure license agreements and partnerships to leverage the Company’s assets in non-healthcare
diagnostic markets, where predicted growth rates are similarly attractive.
We have a growing presence in this exciting market. With our experienced management and a proven
product technology backed by a strong intellectual property portfolio, Osmetech has considerable
scope to build significant value in its Molecular Diagnostics Division.
James White
Chief Executive Officer
20 March 2007
Osmetech Annual Report and Accounts 2006 7
