 Chairman’s statement
The sale of our Critical Care Division to IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. (‘IDEXX’) for £23.1 million ($45.4 million)
in cash before costs was completed on 31 January 2007, representing a substantial return on the 
£1.7 million ($2.7 million) purchase price when the blood gas and electrolyte analyser business was
acquired from Roche Diagnostics Inc. in 2003. As a result of Osmetech’s active management of the
business, considerable value was created through the acquisition of this non-core asset from a major
company by Osmetech.
Osmetech is now making excellent progress towards replicating this success in a market with much more
attractive growth prospects. We are now wholly focused on exploiting the considerable opportunities in
the rapidly developing molecular diagnostics market sector. This is centred on our proprietary
technology and substantial intellectual property portfolio built around the acquisition of Clinical Micro
Sensors, Inc. from Motorola, Inc. in 2005.
The market dynamics for molecular diagnostics continue to be attractive with high growth rates and the
prospect of high margins. Osmetech has directed its development at products that meet the
requirements of a decentralising diagnostics market which is demanding FDA-cleared tests in a cost-
effective, compact and easy to use format. Many of the existing players in the wider molecular testing
market have expensive and specialised instruments designed for the more complex demands of the
research market and are finding the transition to diagnostics difficult to achieve.
Osmetech remains one of a small number of companies with the capability of meeting the requirements
for this growing market. We have proven technology and products that have successfully passed key
scientific and regulatory milestones and are now making sound commercial progress in achieving market
acceptance of our first generation eSensor
®
4800 platform.
We have completed the development of our second generation eSensor
®
XT-8 platform and are very
excited about its commercial prospects. The system, along with the Warfarin sensitivity test, is currently
under review by the FDA and following the anticipated FDA clearance we expect to launch the product
in the first half of 2008. We plan to commercialise the product throughout the remainder of 2008 and
into 2009 which will involve continued investment in Group’s infrastructure and product pipeline. We
anticipate that further funding will be required during this period in order to fully execute our
commercialisation plans. Not withstanding the emphasis of matter disclosed within the auditors’ report,
based upon ongoing negotiations and discussions with potential strategic partners, licencees,
commercial and other third parties we are confident that further funds will be available to the Group
enabling us to optimise value from our products. We plan to pursue the alternative which delivers most
shareholder value at the time and I look forward to updating shareholders in due course.
Gordon Hall
Chairman
31 March 2008
2 Osmetech Annual Report and Accounts 2007
