 OsmetechAnnualReport 2005 3
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Introduction
Wearenow building upon the highly reliable revenue platform that OPTI has provided. The
completion of twoacquisitions,Molecular Sensing plc (“MS”)andClinicalMicroSensors,Inc
(“CMS”), in the fastest growth sector of the global diagnostics market, genetic diagnostics, should
providea powerful product combination. This shouldallow us toperformboth simple tests
throughOPTIGENEand morecomplex tests with theCMS eSensor™ instrument, yielding
exciting international opportunities for the further growth of theGroup. 
As with theacquisition ofOPTI fromRoche in 2003, theseacquisitions werecompleted on
favourable terms for Osmetech shareholders and we expect tobeable to extract considerable
value from these investments in duecourse.
OPTI
The recent investment in new OPTI products is starting to pay off, with the updatedCCA with
touchscreen havingbeen successfully launched. The reusableOPTIR instrument targeting higher
usagecustomers and theOPTILion electrolyte only analyser exhibitedat the recent American
Association ofClinicalChemists Conference (AACC) meeting in theUS were very well receivedby
bothcustomers and international distributors. Both of these products are scheduled for worldwide
launch later this calendar year.
TheOPTI product line of near point ofcarearterialblood gas analysis instruments and
consumables continues to show good underlying sales growthas the market continues to migrate
from traditionalcentral hospital laboratory settings. Sales revenues for the year increased
marginally inconstant currency terms and there was underlying growth in excess of 10%after
accounting for the one-offbenefit ofSARS-related sales toChinaand initial distributor pipeline
filling during the prior year.
The VetStat product,anOPTICCAanalyser adapted for the veterinary market, has now been
launchedby our distribution partner,IDEXXLaboratories,Inc. (“IDEXX”), producing most
encouraging early results, with orders exceeding expectations. IDEXX is a worldwide leader in the
development andcommercialisation ofanimal health diagnostic products and weareconfident of
future growth resulting from their extensive sales and marketingcampaigns.
Good progress has alsobeen made with the development contract withIDEXX tocreatea new
platform for measuringcriticalcare parameters based onOsmetech’s proprietary optical
fluorescence technology. Weexpect product sales tocommence on schedule in the short to
medium term.
Weopeneda sales office inGermany inApril with exclusive distribution rights toOPTI products in
this important market where we havean existingcustomer base regularly orderingconsumables.
We shouldbeable to successfully leverage this operation further as we introduce new OPTI
products andcomplementary third party products. We willalso havean established operation
through which to launch theGroup’s genetic diagnostics products allowing us to service the
customer base directly.
OPTI is well placed to grow steadily and,as the installedbaseexpands, producea high quality
and reliable income stream for theGroup.
Genetic diagnostics market
Genetic diagnostics is the fastest growing segment of the global diagnostics market and, in theUS
is forecast to grow at approximately 20% per year during the next 5 years. The growth of this 4 OsmetechAnnualReport 2005
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
sector and the prospect of high profit margins is becoming of increasing interest across the wider
diagnostics industry. Roche have recently madea strategic investment inAffymetrix which has a
bio-chip for DNA detection.
The genetic diagnostics market has not been dominatedby the major companies. Most testing is
currently performedby large hospitals and reference laboratories operating expensive instruments
and running specialised tests, which rely on high volume testing in order to managecosts.
The growth in these highly accurate diagnostic tests is expected tobe drivenby technological
advances providing simpler and morecost effectiveassays to enable small to medium sized
hospitals to perform testing themselves inaddition to the expansion of theHumanGenome
Project resulting in new tests to reduce healthcare systemcosts and to improve patient care. This
fits well withOsmetech’s existing distributor networkandcustomer base.
The following three sub-segments account for over 75% of theUS genetic diagnostics market. The
genetics and pharmacogenomics market in theUSalone is expected to increase from $120m to
$950m over the period 2003-2010. Over the same period theUS infectious diseases market is
expected to grow from $675m to $1.8bn.
1)HumanGenetics
Human genetics focuses on enabling the physician to test individuals for diseases for which they
havea genetic predisposition, for example:cystic fibrosis, thrombosis,Alzheimer’s or certain
cancers. This is achieved through the detection of “mistakes” inan individual’s DNA which may
cause mutations associated witha particular disease.
2)Pharmacogenomics
Pharmacogenomics is the process of developing drug therapies tailored toan individual patient’s
needs through genetic testing. This enables physicians to ensure that treatments areboth safeand
effective, reducing drug wastageand reducing the possibility of patients experiencingadverse
drug reactions. This is anarea in which weanticipate rapid growthand perhaps for the first time in
the healthcare diagnostics industry we will see pharmaceutical margins,but without theassociated
development costs and timescales.
TheFDA has recently approveda new product fromRoche/Affymetrix for theCYP450 family of
enzymes which will provide relevant genetic information for drug metabolism,and has now been
launchedat more than $500 per test. CMSalso has a product currently under development for
CYP450 which is planned tobe launched later in 2006.
The portable OPTI CCA analyser
Over 800 new OPTICCA instruments sold in 2004/5
increasing theactive installedbase of units of over
4,000 from which repeat consumable sales
continue tobe generated. OsmetechAnnualReport 2005 5
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
3)Infectious Diseases
Healthcare physicians rely on tests whichareable to identify theDNA of thebacteria responsible
for sexually transmitted diseases (e.g.,HIV,Chlamydia, gonorrhoea)and other infectious diseases
suchas MRSA. This is the largest sector of the genetic diagnostics market today and is
concentrated incentral laboratories whichbatchand test high volumes of samples. Osmetech’s
aim through its OPTIGENE instrument is to improve the turnaround time of testing in this area
sufficiently to justify a shift in testingaway from thecentral laboratory to near point ofcare. An
easy to perform test whichcan providea result within 45 minutes, whilst the patient is stillat the
hospital or clinic presents a significant opportunity tocontrol the spread of diseaseboth in the
hospitaland in the general population. Theseattributes arealso expected tobe useful for the
effective diagnosis for emergingcontagious diseases suchas BirdFlu. 
Osmetech’s genetic diagnostics strategy
Strategically, the progression into genetic diagnostics was a logical move for Osmetech, with strong
growthanticipated from the small to medium sized hospital market - our corecustomer base. We
hadbeen evaluatinga number of potential tests and technologies tocombine with our ownFDA
approvedbacterial vaginosis test withina devicecapable of diagnosingand differentiatingbetween
the most prevalent andclinically important vaginal infections.During this process we reviewedand
assessed thecollaborative work that LGCLimited (“LGC”)andMS hadbeen performing includinga
successful study ofclinical samples at theRoyalFreeHospitalinLondon to evaluate theLGC
HyBeaconChlamydia detectionassay run on the prototypeOPTIGENE instrument. We now intend
to developand market theOPTIGENE deviceas a priority toaddress the most critical
requirements of the vaginal infectionand sexually transmitted diseases market.
Webelieve that theOPTTIGENEand eSensor™ products have theattributes necessary to meet
the requirements of the hospital market. For new genetic tests that emerge from the expansion of
theHumanGenomeProject that only require theanalysis ofa limitedamount of genetic
information, the rapidOPTIGENE product is well suited. The eSensor™ device is designed for
morecomplex tests. 
Both of these products facilitateaccurate testing inacost effective, easy to use format andare
well protectedby strongIP positions. Unlike much of thecompetition,both products combine
bothan instrument platformand proprietary assay-specificconsumables.
Acquisition of Molecular Sensing plc
Theall share offer for Molecular Sensing plc was completed on 12 October 2004. The offer of 47
Osmetech shares for every 2 MS shares resulted ina total of 83,992,581 new Osmetech shares
being issued. Withanaverage mid-market price of 3.245 pence per share this valuedMSat
approximately £2.7m. At the date ofacquisition, the fair valueof the net assets ofMS was £1.8m,
includingcash of £1.9m.
OPTI’s self contained optical sensor cassette for
blood gas, electrolyte and metabolite analysis
Over 1.3 millionconsumable tests sold in 2004/5
representing 63% of totalOPTI sales anda highly
reliable source of revenue. 6 OsmetechAnnualReport 2005
Chief Executive Officer’s review
continued
OPTI GENE
OPTIGENE is a rapidand easy to use device for DNAandRNAanalysis for relatively simple tests
that require limited genetic information suchas thrombophiliaand infectious diseases including
sexually transmitted diseases.
We have signedan exclusiveagreement withLGC to license its HyBeacons DNA probe
technology for genetic testingapplications inall world markets, excludingIndia. Assays utilising
this technology arebeing developedat our facility inBoston,US. 
The development programme for thecompletion of theOPTIGENE instrument has been fully
integrated intoOsmetech’s operations. We plan to exhibit the product at theMedica (Europe)and
AMP (US) trade shows inNovember this year, with product sales likely tocommence in the first half
of 2006.
OPTIGENEalso has significant potential in other markets suchas veterinary, forensics and
research. We would seek to exploit these opportunities through strategic partnerships as we have
achieved through the existingIDEXX relationship.
We havealso signeda license withRocheDiagnostics for our proprietary plastic tube technology.
The worldwide non-exclusive license will enableRoche to manufactureand sell plasticconsumable
vials for use on its large installedbase ofLightCycler instruments as a morecost-effective
alternative to existing glass vials, whilst maintaining performance levels. The same technology has
been incorporated intoconsumables tobe supplied for use withOsmetech’s OPTIGENE
instrument.
Acquisition of Clinical Micro Sensors, Inc.
CMS was acquiredcashand debt free on 26 July 2005 for aconsideration satisfiedby an issue of
warrants that entitleMotorola to subscribe for 78,114,287 ordinary shares at 1.75 pence per share.
Under the terms of theacquisition,Motorola havealso subscribed for 212,470,862 ordinary shares
inOsmetech equating toan investment of £3.7m.
CMS
CMS was founded in 1994as a spin off fromTheCaliforniaInstitute of Technology (“Caltech”)and
was acquiredby Motorola inJune 2000 for aconsideration of $280m. Thebusiness is based in
Pasadena,California,USand employs approximately 60 people.
Motorola has disposed of its non-core medicalbusinesses includingCMS. Osmetech identified
this business as having excellent core technology with strong intellectual property protectedby
international patents, which hadbenefited from significant investment by Motorola during its
period of ownership.
Thecore technology ofCMS is electro-chemical detection for DNAanalysis. CMS has been
developinga low cost instrument andconsumable for moderately complex genetic testing where
the detection of multiple gene targets is required. TheCMS eSensor™ instrument is a platform
that allows a number of tests tobe performed through the use ofacommonconsumable
configured for a specific test. Webelieve that both the instrument andconsumable have
significant cost advantages over competitor products.
CMS has developeda test for cystic fibrosis carrier screening where the presence of 25 genes is
analysed froma single sample. Clinical trials havebeenconductedat two hospitals and one
reference laboratory in theUS to support a 510k submission to theFDA. Oneclinical laboratory, OsmetechAnnualReport 2005 7
Chief Executive Officer’s review
continued
OregonHealthandScienceUniversity, recently presenteda research poster, ‘BiochipBasedCystic
Fibrosis Carrier Screening’ that discusses theclinical methodsand results using theCMS
eSensor™ DNA detection system. The paper notes that theCMS system producedaccurateand
timely results, was easy to use with straightforward sample preparation. It concluded that this
biochip system wouldbe useful for moderate volume testing. The paper is available on our
website: www.osmetech.com. 
We plan to exhibit theCMS eSensor™ cystic fibrosis product at theMedica (Europe)andAMP (US)
trade shows inNovember this year, with product sales anticipated tocommence in the first half of
2006.
CMS’s second product launch is likely tobe for CYP450,anarea that we expect to grow rapidly
intoa significant market. This product is anticipated for launch towards the end of 2006.
Fund raising
At the same timeas theacquisition ofCMS inJuly 2005,a placing of 628.6m ordinary shares raised
£11.0m gross (£10.2m net of expenses)at a price of 1.75 pence per share. Following the
completion of the placing thereare 1,318,049,730 ordinary shares in issue. The placing was largely
with new investors, includingMotorola who subscribed for £3.7m. This will provide funds for the
enlargedGroup’s workingcapital requirements, particularly that which relates to the new CMS
business. 
Webelieve that net proceeds of the funding willbe sufficient for thecompletion of development
and the launch ofboth theOPTIGENEandCMScystic fibrosis products. However, it is likely that
Osmetech will require further funding in the future,but we expect tobeable toachieve this froma
position of strengthas webuild value within theGroup.
Financial review
Sales revenues totalled $10,863,000 (£5,833,000) which representeda 4% increase over the
previous year onaconstant currency basis: $10,453,000 (£6,180,000). The 6% reduction in sales
reported in sterling reflects the relative weakness of theUS dollar during the period. 
OPTI sales accounted for 98% of total revenues andas has already explained this business
experienced underlying growth in excess of 10%. In product terms, the highly reliable repeat
reagent sales accounted for 63% of total revenues.
As expected, gross profit margins reduced to 41.5% from theabnormally high levels achieved in
the previous year following the successful utilisation of slow moving inventory acquiredas part of
the purchase of theOPTIbusiness. A high proportion ofOPTI’s cost of sales represents fixed
manufacturingcosts, the recovery of which will improve throughadditional production volumes
fromIDEXXand new product introductions. With minimal sales and marketingcosts through the
use of distributors for internationaland veterinary market sales, we expect tobeable to improve
the profitability of thebusiness as revenues continue to grow.
Operating losses before exceptional items of £827,000 (2004 – £nil) increased to £2,152,000 (2004 –
£1,418,000) largely as a result of the reduction in gross margins explainedabove. Other (non-
exceptional) overheads of £4,574,000 (2004 – £4,864,000) representeda reduction of 6%compared
to the prior year. Although much of this reduction was explainedby currency movements, this year
includes overheads relating to theMS/OPTIGENEbusiness since its acquisition on 12 October
2004, together withcosts associated with the due diligence process for theCMSacquisition. 8 OsmetechAnnualReport 2005
Chief Executive Officer’s review
continued
We have recognised exceptionalcosts this year of £827,000,although only £67,000 represents
‘cash items’ and relates to the integration of theMSacquisition. Non-cash items comprise the
write down of thecarrying value ofcertain tangibleand intangibleassets, including £681,658
relating to electronic gas odour sensor technology following theGroup’s change in strategy to
focus its development resources primarily on genetic diagnostics.
Cash outflows before financingamounted to £1,227,000 (2004 – £2,104,000)although this included
£1,691,000 net cashacquired from theacquisition ofMS. Adjusting for this, the gross outflow of
£2,918,000 was broadly similar to the reported loss for the year. The £760,000 non-cash elements of
the exceptionalcosts were offset by a largely temporary increase of £553,000 in trade debtors due
to the strong sales performance towards the end of the trading period.
In order tobring our reporting periodand naturalbusiness cycle in line with that of our
commercial partners, we intend tochange our accounting period toaDecember year end. We will
therefore report for an 8 month period ending 31December 2005.
Outlook
Lookingahead for OPTI, we expect continued strong growth through theIDEXX trading
relationshipandan increasedcontribution from the launch later this year of theOPTILIONand
OPTIR instruments.
We havea high quality operational infrastructurecapable of supporting thecontinued growth of
thebusiness and have the skills, experienceand knowledge of the market to exploit the significant
opportunities that lieahead, particularly in the field of genetic diagnostics. Within the genetic
diagnostics sector, the small to medium sized hospitalbusiness is expected to grow most rapidly:
this is Osmetech’s existingcore internationalcustomer base.
Webelieve that the recent acquisitions ofMSandCMS will provideOsmetech witha strong
commercial presence in the fastest growing sector of the globaldiagnostics market. TheOPTIGENE
and theCMS eSensor™ products areboth near to market,complementary andcompriseboth
instrument andconsumable. As an installedbase of instruments is established we havean excellent
opportunity to expand sales revenues by increasing the testingcapability through offering new tests
andbenefiting from the relatively high margins that this sector is anticipated to yield.
Osmetech is well placed tocontinue to make significant progress with its strategy to developa
medical devices and diagnostics business in the fast growing near patient testing market
principally serving small to medium sized hospitals. Our product portfoliocontinues to strengthen,
combining the reliable, high quality revenues fromOPTI with exciting growth opportunities in the
field of genetic testing. We havea provencommercial infrastructure with existing distributionand
customer base together withcommercial partnerships with three leading worldcompanies:Roche,
Sysmex andIDEXX. We look forward to the future withconfidenceand the prospects ofbuilding
significant value for shareholders.
James White
ChiefExecutiveOfficer 
1September 2005
