 Chairman’s statement
At the start of 2009, Mark Lappe and I were appointed to the Osmetech board, and this represents my
first opportunity to formally address shareholders. We represent Osmetech’s largest shareholder, Efficacy
Capital, and have decided to increase our interests in the business as we believe that Osmetech has the
strong potential to become a very successful player in the rapidly growing molecular diagnostics market.
The Company is well placed to take advantage of what we believe will be one of the next major shifts in
healthcare: personalized medicine, using genetic information to tailor treatment to the individual. We
believe that the rewards of success for Osmetech significantly outweigh the risks involved.
We are particularly excited about the prospects for the development of the Warfarin sensitivity testing
market and the clear alignment of benefits for the patient, the practicing physician, the hospital and the
insurance company. There is considerable evidence in support of routine Warfarin testing and we believe
that this market is approaching an inflection point where testing could begin to accelerate to the point
of becoming widespread and standard of care. Osmetech is in an excellent position to capitalize on this
with an FDA-cleared Warfarin Sensitivity Test and a new extended version of the test, which includes the
important new biomarker, 4F2, unique to the Company.
Following FDA clearance and launch in July 2008, our eSensor XT-8 has performed extremely well in the
field, providing our customers with an excellent user experience. Our easy-to-use and cost effective
system now enables our customers to perform molecular testing in-house. As a consequence, patient
care is improved by producing faster test results, and the hospital benefits financially by claiming
profitable reimbursement for running the test.
Many of the risks that an organization such as Osmetech faces at this stage in its development have
been largely overcome. Our electrochemical detection technology is proven and robust and is protected
by a very strong patent portfolio. We have developed a reliable and repeatable, regulated
manufacturing process and have created a commercial infrastructure capable of supporting the growth
of our business. We have an established method for creating new tests and have a product development
team with the skills to deliver these.
We firmly believe that we have a superior instrument platform and have a strong pipeline of tests to
satisfy the requirements of the market. Our key operational challenge is now executing on our business
plan to expand the use of our eSensor platform by increasing the installed base of instruments and
providing a growing menu of tests. We have accelerated this strategy by signing agreements with
industry leaders, Qiagen and Fisher Healthcare, for a respiratory pathogen test and U.S. distribution
rights respectively.
We believe that Osmetech is an intrinsically strong company but remains under-capitalized. In order to
fully execute our strategy we require further funding. The board continues to consider all strategic
options to maximize shareholder value, including attracting further funding into the business, either
through investors or commercial partners, a merger of the business with a complementary third party
business, or the sale of the Company. I look forward to updating you in due course.
Jon Faiz Kayyem
Chairman
2 April 2009
2 Osmetech Annual Report and Accounts 2008
