 Chief executive officer’s review
Introduction
We have continued to make strong progress in the year towards our aim of commercialising our
proprietary electrochemical detection technology to provide a low cost, easy to use instrument platform
for molecular diagnostics testing.
Commercialisation achieved with first generation system
A limited number of eSensor 4800 DNA Detection instruments were inherited when the Clinical Micro
Sensors, Inc. business was acquired from Motorola in 2005. Our strategy has been to use this first
generation eSensor 4800 platform to achieve regulatory and commercial acceptance of our technology.
We are pleased to report considerable progress in this regard. Following FDA regulatory clearance for
our eSensor Cystic Fibrosis Carrier Detection test and eSensor 4800 DNA Detection instrument in 2006,
14 available instruments are now with customers either on a commercial basis or under evaluation.
Customers range from large to small hospitals and small reference laboratories and we have
experienced a 100% conversion rate from the evaluation stage through to commercial contract. Whilst
customer satisfaction levels remain high we plan to replace these eSensor 4800 systems with our second
generation platform, the eSensor XT-8, following clearance by the FDA.
Throughout this commercialisation process we have established a core U.S. sales and marketing team in
addition to an effective manufacturing base and supply chain. Valuable feedback and experience from
the market has been gained allowing us to incorporate product enhancements into the development of
our second generation eSensor XT-8 system.
Submission of second generation platform
The development of our second generation eSensor XT-8 electrochemical DNA analysis system has
been completed and the product has been very successfully exhibited at a number of trade shows.
Following highly successful pre-clinical trial studies, the system is currently under review by the FDA
together with our Warfarin sensitivity test. Following FDA clearance, we plan to launch the platform in
the first half of 2008.
FDA clearance for the XT-8 platform will simplify the regulatory pathway for future assay submissions.
These submissions will be for new tests with no further review of the instrument being required.
The XT-8 system is based on the FDA-cleared eSensor 4800 product with several additional features to
provide enhanced performance capabilities. It is a compact bench-top workstation with an integrated
touch screen computer and disposable test cartridges that can process up to 3,000 tests a week. Using
prepared samples, the eSensor XT-8 System can run up to 24 different tests independently (with variable
throughput capacity dependent upon the user’s requirements) providing a definitive result within 30
minutes with limited operator involvement. The system incorporates several key features which we
believe will make the XT-8 attractive to a wide range of laboratories, including:
• Simplicity. Our eSensor XT-8 System eliminates the need for sophisticated instrumentation or
complex reagent kits. Automation of a number of key process steps eliminates manual intervention
in the detection process and algorithms provide test results without the need for operator
interpretation or data manipulation, making molecular diagnostic testing widely available to both
large and small hospital laboratories worldwide.
• Cost-Effectiveness. Our eSensor XT-8 System is a low cost platform that is accessible to smaller
hospitals and reference laboratories. Our versatile, cartridge-based design eliminates the need for
multiple testing platforms. By eliminating the need for skilled technicians and multiple complex
platforms, hospitals and laboratories of all sizes can reduce their costs and obtain results from tests
in their own laboratories at a significantly lower cost than through systems generally available today.
Osmetech Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3 Chief executive officer’s review
continued
Assuming current Medicare reimbursement rates for genetic tests remain the same, the eSensor XT-8
system should provide hospitals and reference laboratories with an additional revenue source while
allowing them to better serve their patients and clients with faster and more accurate test results.
• True Random Access Testing. The eSensor XT-8 System allows laboratories to economically run
different tests from different patient samples when received and on demand, unlike other systems
where laboratories must process patient samples in batches to control reagent and labour costs.
True random access results in faster sample turn-around times, improved patient care and timely
service to the ordering clinician waiting to act on the patient result.
• Multiplexing. The eSensor XT-8 System enables scalable multiplexing of up to 72 target molecules
on the same patient sample in a single assay cartridge. Potential applications include genomic and
infectious disease test panels on a single use cartridge that allows for the simultaneous detection of
multiple genetic mutations associated with complex diseases such as cystic fibrosis or respiratory
infections.
• Accuracy and Reliability. The eSensor XT-8 System utilises a proprietary electrochemical method to
detect nucleic acids with high levels of sensitivity and specificity. Electrochemistry is far more robust
than optical recognition methods providing results that are less subject to variation from
contamination or vibration and dust.
• Low maintenance. We believe that the eSensor XT-8 requires less maintenance than any other
competitor instrument. No set-up procedures are necessary allowing an extremely convenient ‘plug
and play’ approach. Ongoing or regular maintenance is minimal.
• Validated Technology. The eSensor XT-8 System is based on our proprietary electrochemical
technology, a technology which has been used in other clinical applications, most notably in blood
glucose measurement for diabetes management. The XT-8 instrument utilises the same core
technology as our eSensor 4800 system, which has been approved by the FDA and is currently in use
in laboratory settings for cystic fibrosis carrier detection.
• Clinical Lab Ready System. The XT-8 is designed specifically for the molecular diagnostics market
using our experience of successful new blood gas products previously launched in our Critical Care
Division, rather than attempting to adapt a complex research based instrument to meet the very
different demands of the clinical environment.
Unique content in-licenced
We have obtained an exclusive licence from the Marshfield Clinic for an important newly discovered
genetic marker for Warfarin, the CYP450 4F2 biomarker. The Marshfield Clinic has recently had an article
published in the peer-reviewed journal, Blood Online, entitled “CYP4F2 Genetic Variant Alters Required
Warfarin Dose” which describes clinical studies demonstrating that the 4F2 biomarker significantly
influences Warfarin requirements. Gaining access to unique content through exclusive licencing is highly
unusual in the molecular diagnostics industry and gives us a significant competitive advantage,
confirmed by the numerous enquiries we have subsequently received from third parties seeking a sub-
licence.
Together with the licences necessary for our marketed Cystic Fibrosis Carrier Detection test, we have
also successfully completed the in-licencing of biomarkers for our Warfarin sensitivity and 2C9
pharmacogenomics tests planned for launch later this year. In addition to the unique 4F2 marker we
have also obtained the rights to other genetic markers related to Warfarin metabolism which should
form the basis of an Extended Warfarin Panel test also targeted for launch later in 2008.
Osmetech has recently been granted a broad non-exclusive worldwide diagnostics licence from Roche
to use chemically modified thermostable polymerases for applications including existing marketed
4 Osmetech Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chief executive officer’s review
continued
products, other genetic predisposition assays, companion diagnostics and infectious diseases such as
HPV. This enables improved control over the amplification of select segments of nucleic acids, including
genomic DNA, so that sufficient signal is available for diagnostic processing, resulting in a highly
efficient and sensitive amplified assay. This licence will benefit both new and existing customers who will
not be required to obtain this licence from Roche and pay royalties on tests performed when using
Osmetech products. This is a good example where Osmetech is simplifying molecular diagnostics by
including this critical component in an easy to use kit format for customers.
Expansion of our intellectual property portfolio and outlicencing activities
We believe that our intellectual property portfolio provides a significant barrier to the development of
similar electrochemical based detection systems. We own or have exclusive worldwide rights to more
than 150 patents worldwide mostly in the field of electrochemical detection of biological entities such as
DNA, RNA, and proteins.
Our strong intellectual property portfolio for its core electrochemical detection technology was built
through the combination of the Clinical Micro Sensors acquisition from Motorola and a series of
worldwide exclusive licences most notably from CalTech (where most of the electrochemical detection
technology originated), University of North Carolina, Harvard University and MIT. To date there are more
than 80 issued U.S. patents protecting the Company’s electrochemical detection technology covering a
diverse collection of areas including electrochemical DNA detection, self-assembling monolayer
technology, signal processing and extraction methods.
We believe that our eSensor electrochemical technology is ideally suited to the decentralising molecular
diagnostics market, enabling testing in less sophisticated laboratories outside of research institutions
and large hospitals. It should also provide us with the ability to develop intuitive and robust point-of-
care testing instrumentation and ultimately portable testing devices that are not subject to the
limitations of photon (optical) based platforms.
We have licenced technology to Ohmx Corporation and Minerva Biotechnologies Corp on a non-
exclusive basis. We see further opportunities to leverage our considerable patent portfolio to generate
licencing income from commercial agreements, while maintaining our competitive advantage for
applications in our core markets.
Business repositioned in the most attractive segment of the diagnostics industry: 
Molecular Diagnostics
The sale of our Critical Care Division (“CCD”) blood gas and electrolyte analyser business early in 2007
completed the cycle of acquiring and developing a non-core undervalued asset from a major company
through to the generation of significant returns. Osmetech was successful in creating considerable value
with CCD in a mature, slow growing market with modest profit margins. We are now developing a
molecular diagnostics business with higher growth and higher margin opportunities in a market sector of
increasing strategic importance.
The molecular diagnostics market is the fastest growing segment of the overall in-vitro diagnostics (IVD)
market. The global market for diagnostic products was estimated to be $34 billion in 2006 according to
Boston Biomedical Consultants. Molecular diagnostics generally refers to the use of genomic analysis of
individuals to diagnose disease and treat patients and, as a sub-segment of the IVD market, includes
diagnostic testing for infectious diseases, pharmacogenomics, genetics and cancer. This new and
expanding part of the IVD market has emerged in response to a need for more rapid, sensitive and
specific diagnostic tests than were previously available using traditional techniques, such as
immunoassays. Our market opportunity in molecular diagnostics is more than $2.3 billion. We believe
that the following factors, among others, are contributing to the growth of this market:
Osmetech Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5 Chief executive officer’s review
continued
• Decentralisation. The diagnostics market is beginning the conversion from traditional methods of
detection that are required to be performed in outside laboratories to molecular testing performed
in hospital laboratories. Generally, genetic testing required complex instrumentation utilising highly
trained operators, expensive equipment and dedicated facilities. There is growing demand from U.S.
hospitals looking to build laboratory revenues and profitability through the reimbursement system by
performing molecular testing on new, cost effective and easy to use platforms in their own
laboratories.
• Conversion to FDA-approved Molecular Testing Methods. The FDA is encouraging the molecular
diagnostic industry to develop tests that are cleared by the FDA rather then using ASR-based tests
not submitted for clearance. It is expected that over time that many of these ASR tests and “home
brew” tests created by laboratories will be phased out in favour of FDA-approved tests.
• Expansion of Human Genetic Testing. Medical advances in the understanding of the relationship
between genetics and disease and the disease process have led to the development of human
genetic tests for diseases such as cystic fibrosis and inherited diseases. As understanding and
technology advance, we expect that additional genetic tests will become available to establish a
person’s predisposition to a wide range of diseases.
• Pharmacogenomics. Research is uncovering more information about the impact of genetics on
patients’ ability to tolerate, metabolise and respond to many drugs. The importance of this research
is highlighted by the fact that, according to the Institute of Medicine, over 100,000 people die each
year in the U.S. alone as a result of adverse drug reactions. As a result, we expect that genetic
testing will increasingly be used to guide treatment methods and dosages through the development
of companion drug tests. The FDA has noted an increase in pharmaceutical companies seeking
clearance of products with accompanying diagnostic tests and over the next decade there is
expected to be substantial growth in the companion molecular diagnostics market with companies
focusing their development of drugs for patients who are more likely to respond favourably to that
particular drug and drugs that focus on targeting a specific gene. In addition, the FDA is seeking
pharmacogenomic information from pharmaceutical companies on their currently marketed
products, which could lead to the development of new tests for other pharmaceuticals.
• Increasing Reliance on Genetic Testing. Future growth in the molecular diagnostics market will be
driven by continued development of new tests and the growing acceptance of, and reliance on,
these tests by physicians and other practitioners in their decision making process and patients’
awareness of the potential of these tests. We expect that as these tests become more accessible as
a result of the lowering of barriers to entry to hospital laboratories for test processing, physicians and
patients will come to include these tests as an important factor in prevention, diagnosis and
treatment of many diseases.
6 Osmetech Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chief executive officer’s review
continued
Our applications
We are commercialising or have in development several genomic assays including the following:
Application Product Description Status
Warfarin metabolism XT-8 Warfarin Test
Warfarin metabolism
2C9 drug metabolism
Cystic Fibrosis
Cystic Fibrosis
Respiratory viruses In development Identification of the
major respiratory
viruses. Aids
identification of
bacterial infections
Respiratory viral panel
for eSensor XT-8
system
In development.
510(k) application to be
submitted early 2009
Test for pre-conception
screening of cystic
fibrosis gene carriers
Cystic Fibrosis Test for
eSensor XT-8 system
On market FDA-cleared test for
pre-conception
screening of cystic
fibrosis gene carriers
Cystic Fibrosis Test for
eSensor 4800 System
Development and clinical
trials complete. 510(k)
application to be
submitted following FDA
clearance of the XT-8
Warfarin Test Commercial
launch projected in the
second half of 2008
Genetic test for CYP2C9
biomarkers associated
with metabolism of
Phenytoin (epilepsy) and
most non-steroidal anti-
inflammatory drugs
(including COX-2)
CYP 450 2C9 Test for
eSensor XT-8 system
Development and clinical
trials complete. 510(k)
application to be
submitted following FDA
clearance of the XT-8
Warfarin Test Commercial
launch projected in the
second half of 2008
Genetic test for
additional CYP2C9/
VKOR biomarkers
associated with Warfarin
metabolism including
exclusively licenced
CYP450 4F2 biomarker
XT-8 Extended
Warfarin Test
510(k) application
submitted December 2007.
Assuming FDA clearance,
commercial launch
projected in the first half of
2008
Genetic test for CYP2C9/
VKOR biomarkers
associated with Warfarin
metabolism
Osmetech Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7 Chief executive officer’s review
continued
Warfarin metabolism
Our eSensor Warfarin Test is a pharmacogenomic test for the detection of genetic mutations that
determine an individual’s ability to metabolise the oral anticoagulant Warfarin, also known as Coumadin.
Warfarin decreases the blood’s clotting ability and is the most widely prescribed oral anticoagulant in
North America and Europe. Individuals metabolise Warfarin differently, and if its administration is not
managed carefully, life threatening side effects may occur.
In the U.S. alone there are an estimated 2 million new Warfarin patients each year. Warfarin is the second
most likely drug, after insulin, to send Americans to the Emergency Room, resulting in an estimated
43,000 visits a year in the U.S. A recent economic study concluded that widespread use of Warfarin
testing in the U.S. could avoid 85,000 serious-bleeding events and 17,000 strokes a year, and so save the
healthcare system approximately $1.1 billion annually.
In August 2007, the FDA announced the relabelling of Coumadin (generic name – Warfarin), which was
reported on the front page of the Wall Street Journal. It is significant that the FDA has taken such a
proactive stance to promote the use of genetic factors to predict how individuals will react to medicines.
We believe this is a significant milestone for the adoption of pharmacogenomics tests. The potential for
Warfarin testing is a good illustration of the significant commercial opportunities for pharmacogenomics
tests targeting specific drugs which are capable of being performed on Osmetech’s XT-8 platform.
The eSensor Warfarin Test, which is currently under review by the FDA together with the eSensor XT-8
System, detects three genetic markers that are known to play a critical role in metabolising Warfarin.
Through detection of these genetic markers, doctors are able to determine the appropriate initial
Warfarin dosage level in a safer and more efficient manner.
We recently obtained an exclusive licence from the Marshfield Clinic for an important newly discovered
genetic marker for Warfarin, the CYP450 4F2 biomarker. Clinical studies demonstrate that the 4F2 biomarker
significantly influences Warfarin requirements. We have already conducted clinical trials incorporating this
4F2 marker and other additional genetic markers into our eSensor Extended Warfarin Test, which we expect
to submit for FDA 510(k) clearance shortly after receiving clearance for our three marker Warfarin Test.
Cystic Fibrosis
Our Cystic Fibrosis Carrier Detection Test is a qualitative, multiplexed genotyping assay that detects a
23-marker panel of mutations associated with cystic fibrosis based on guidelines published by the
American College of Medical Genetics and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists for
screening of adult couples contemplating pregnancy. Our eSensor Cystic Fibrosis Test for the eSensor
4800 System received 510(k) clearance from the FDA in 2006 and is currently on the market. We
anticipate that we will submit our eSensor Cystic Fibrosis Test for the eSensor XT-8 System for FDA
clearance in early 2009.
The U.S. market for Cystic Fibrosis Carrier Screening is currently estimated to be 1.5 million tests,
growing at 15% with less than 50% market penetration. We expect that the launch of additional low-cost,
FDA-approved tests will drive market expansion through increased testing by small and medium-sized
laboratories as approximately 60% of tests are currently performed in large reference laboratories. We
anticipate that by 2010, approximately 2.5 million tests will be performed in the U.S., creating a total
market of up to $300 million.
2C9 drug metabolism
CYP2C9 is a member of the cytochrome P450 mixed-function system of enzymes involved in the
metabolism of several important groups of drugs including many non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
(NSAIDs) and anti-diabetic drugs.
8 Osmetech Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chief executive officer’s review
continued
We have conducted clinical trials on a 2C9 drug metabolism test. We expect to submit for FDA 510(k)
clearance for 2C9 later this year following clearance of our Warfarin Test.
Other assays
We have a respiratory virus panel currently in development which has the potential of addressing a large
market. A test that differentiates between a number of common respiratory viruses and bacteria is well
suited to the XT-8’s capabilities for multiplex detection from a single patient sample.
We are currently evaluating a number of opportunities to broaden our test menu. We are focussing on
validated content with clear market requirements and anticipate that we will enter into licencing and
commercial agreements with partners enabling further assays to be added to the eSensor XT-8
instrument platform. We expect that this pipeline will include pharmaceutical companion diagnostics
and validated cancer markers.
Competitive landscape
Much of the molecular diagnostic testing today is performed on large, expensive and complex research-
based instruments requiring highly skilled staff to perform tests and interpret results. In order to achieve
acceptable financial returns, large volume batch testing is often required. As a consequence, testing is
largely concentrated in reference laboratories and large hospitals with other hospitals and institutions
forced to out-source testing, resulting in lengthy waits for results and the lost opportunity of performing
potentially profitable tests in-house.
Many of the existing methods, including certain more recently developed technologies, are susceptible
to contamination and inaccuracy because of the need for specialist involvement in every stage of the
process which can lead to inconclusive results and incorrect interpretation. Furthermore, many new
technologies in molecular diagnostics have failed to provide the ease of use and cost-effectiveness that
we believe is necessary to make molecular diagnostic instruments attractive to hospitals and reference
laboratories that do not currently have the capacity to perform molecular diagnostics in their
laboratories.
Market domination in this sector of the Diagnostics market by a limited number of key players has not
yet occurred, and M&A and cross-licencing activity remains strong with many large players looking to
increase their presence or enter the market for the first time.
We are one of a small number of companies with the capability of meeting the requirements for this
growing market. We are also one of an even smaller group with FDA cleared tests and validated core
technology necessary for widespread adoption by all sizes of customer in this decentralising market.
GeneSensor
During 2007 the development of the GeneSensor instrument platform was discontinued with the Group’s
resources fully focused on the eSensor technology and XT-8 platform. We remain very encouraged by
the market acceptance of eSensor system and now believe that the eSensor XT-8 instrument and our
electrochemical detection technology generally have the ability to address many of the market
requirements originally targeted by our GeneSensor instrument system.
Financial review
IFRS
This is the first year that the Group has presented its financial statements under International Financial
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). The last financial statements under UK GAAP were for the year ended 
31 December 2006 and the date of transition to IFRS was therefore 1 January 2006. The major areas of
impact of IFRS are summarised below:
Osmetech Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9 Chief executive officer’s review
continued
• Goodwill is not amortised under IFRS but rather subject to annual impairment reviews.
• Recognition and potential remeasurement of disposal groups under IFRS 5 ‘Non Current Assets Held
For Sale and Discontinued Operations’.
The effect of these adjustments on the income statements, balance sheets and equity of the Group are
set out in the notes to the accounts.
Discontinued operations
The results for Critical Care Division sold in January 2007 together with the gain on disposal have been
disclosed as ‘discontinued operations’ in the income statement for both 2006 and 2007. Discontinued
operations also include results relating to GeneSensor which was discontinued in 2007.
A net profit on disposal of the CCD of £17.6 million was recorded in the year, representing a significant
return on the original investment. The total net income after tax attributable to CCD including the
trading result for January 2007 was £17.3 million.
The loss attributable to the discontinued GeneSensor operation of £1.2 million included an impairment
of assets amounting to £1.1 million, principally comprising the write off of goodwill of £1.0 million.
Continuing operations
The loss after taxation in the year from continuing operations in the year decreased by 3% to
£12,031,000 (2006 – £12,340,000). Gross profit (revenue less changes in inventories) increased to £76,000
(2006 – £17,000) on higher revenue of £169,000 (2006 – £49,000); it is too early in the commercialisation
stage for the business to provide any meaningful analysis of the reported gross profit margin of 45%.
The operating loss for the year increased by 2% to £13,048,000 (2006 – £12,751,000). With the
development of the XT-8 completed in 2007, our instrument development costs were lower than in 2006,
although this cost reduction was offset by an increase in assay development activity to ensure that we
have a good progression of new tests in the pipeline for the XT-8. We anticipate that assay development
costs will continue at this new higher level in 2008 and we plan to increase our sales and marketing
resource as we launch the XT-8.
At 31 December 2007, cash and cash equivalents were £13.9 million and were boosted during the year
by the proceeds from the sale of the Critical Care Division. Approximately 90% of the Group’s cash is
held in U.S. dollars, a proportion which broadly matches the likely currency funding requirements for the
business.
Cash flow
The increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year before the effect of foreign exchange rate changes
was £7,184,000 compared to a total Group profit for the year of £3,984,000. The principal reasons for the
difference are the cash received from IDEXX for the sale of net assets plus cumulative exchange reserve
of the Critical Care Division, which amounted to £3,775,000 at 31 December 2006.
Redemption of warrants
On 19 March 2007, 7,811,428 warrants held by Motorola were repurchased and subsequently cancelled
by Osmetech at a price of six pence per warrant for a total of £468,686 before costs of £12,159. The
warrants were issued to Motorola in consideration for Osmetech’s acquisition of Clinical Micro Sensors
Inc. in 2005. The warrants entitled Motorola to subscribe for up to 7,811,428 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence
each in the capital of Osmetech (representing 3.85% of the current issued share capital) at a price of 17.5
pence per share at any time up to 26 July 2010.
10 Osmetech Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chief executive officer’s review
continued
Outlook
In addition to securing FDA clearance of the eSensor 4800 DNA Detection instrument, we have been
successful in recruiting new customers thereby establishing market acceptance of our technology. These
are key milestones that have been met and the principal focus for the business is now execution.
Sales revenues have been increasing as the number of instrument placements has grown. Moving into
2008 we also expect to see an increase in test usage per instrument from existing customers looking to
promote the Cystic Fibrosis test within their local communities to increase the revenues and profitability
of their laboratories through established and attractive reimbursement rates.
We plan to build on this success by launching our second generation eSensor XT-8 system upon FDA
clearance for our Warfarin sensitivity test expected shortly. By the end of 2008 we expect to have
expanded our test menu to include two additional FDA cleared tests creating the basis to produce
annual sales revenues in excess of $100,000 per instrument. We will also be preparing to increase our
installed base of instruments further with international launch through a network of distributors.
We are currently in discussions or negotiations with a number of potential partners attracted by the
broad appeal of our XT-8 instrument platform and electrochemical detection technology. We anticipate
that this will result in new genetic and pharmacogenomic tests to expand our test menu as well as
opportunities to develop a system that can process results directly from the patient sample, without the
need for sample preparation to significantly improve the processing time of our tests.
We believe that market success is likely to be driven by a combination of strength in technology,
intellectual property, instrumentation, installed base and assay menu. Given these factors, the Board
considers that Osmetech is building a strong position in this increasingly important market providing
considerable scope to create further value in the business.
James White
Chief Executive Officer
31 March 2008
Osmetech Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11
