 Osmetech Annual Report 2004    3
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Introduction
During the course of this financial year the Group has been successfully transformed from a pre-
revenue technology development operation to an international diagnostics business through the
ground breaking OPTI acquisition. The highly reliable revenue streams from OPTI have exceeded our
expectations and provide a solid base from which the business can develop its exciting opportunities
for further growth. The acquisition has substantially improved the financial and commercial risk
profile for Osmetech as it is now able to pursue its strategy for growth from a position of strength.
The market
The global medical diagnostics market is worth approximately $20bn and growing steadily, with
Osmetech positioned in the fast growing point of care (POC) market segment. Annual double digit
percentage growth is expected to continue in this sector as healthcare operators increasingly
demand faster test results.
The OPTI business operates in the POC arterial blood gas market which has experienced high
growth over recent years as testing migrates from traditional central hospital laboratory settings.
Osmetech’s vaginal infection product, currently under development, will also target similar POC
markets where there is a significant unmet need for improved infectious disease testing.
Business structure
Following the successful integration of the OPTI acquisition we have been able to consolidate the
Group’s operations on to the Atlanta site, where we have an excellent 60,000 sq ft facility capable
of supporting the anticipated growth of the business. 
The development of the vaginal infection product is now directly benefiting from the considerable
experience and expertise of the OPTI team. These benefits span the full commercial progression
from product development through to clinical, regulatory, production, sales and marketing
operations. Both products have similar customer bases and we intend to use OPTI’s strong
international network of distributors to gain access to all significant world markets.
OPTI trading
Sales revenues for the first full year of trading of $10.5m (£6.2m) far exceeded our original
expectations. These revenues include approximately $1m (£0.6m) of SARS-related sales to China
during the first half of the year.
New instrument sales accounted for 33% of total revenues with over 800 new analyser instruments
sold during the year. The active installed base of over 4,000 instruments with customers provides
robust and reliable demand for our proprietary consumables that are necessary in order to perform
the tests. This high quality stream of consumable sales revenues amounted to 65% of total sales
and should steadily grow as the installed base of instruments widens and further advances are
made with initiatives to increase the average number of tests per instrument.
OPTI’s self contained optical sensor cassette for
blood gas, electrolyte and metabolite analysis
Over 1.3 million consumable tests sold in 2003/4
representing 65% of total OPTI sales and a highly
reliable source of revenue. 4 Osmetech Annual Report 2004  
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
New OPTI products
We remain on target to introduce five new products during the coming year, the first three of
which, including the new Critical Care Analyser with colour touch screen, were launched at the
recent American Association of Clinical Chemists Conference (AACC) in Los Angeles. Two further
key products are expected to be introduced in the second half of the year and should provide the
basis for substantial revenue growth both through the sale of new instruments and consumable
revenues for the growing installed base. We believe that much of this new business will be
incremental as we will be able to offer products aimed at reducing the cost per test for both the
higher usage customer and those operators only requiring a narrow range of tests.
IDEXX agreement
We have recently entered into an OEM manufacturing and supply agreement with IDEXX
Laboratories, Inc, a worldwide leader in the development and commercialisation of animal health
diagnostic products. In 2003, IDEXX had sales of $475m and have a current market capitalisation of
approximately $1.8bn. This long term commercial relationship should provide a substantial level of
new business for OPTI in both instruments and consumables thereby allowing us to benefit from
leveraging our highly scaleable manufacturing infrastructure in Atlanta.
We have also entered into a development and supply contract with IDEXX to create a new
platform for measuring critical care parameters based on Osmetech’s proprietary optical
fluorescence technology.
Both contracts will span over a period of at least 10 years and will open the veterinarian market for
Osmetech’s technology and products. 
This relationship is not only a further validation of the OPTI technology but also demonstrates
Osmetech’s ability to scale up its manufacturing efficiently and become a top quality provider of
critical care diagnostic instrumentation.
Vaginal Infection Product
The increasing spread of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) continues to be of major concern in
all markets worldwide. The Centre for Disease Control has reported that 15 million people are
diagnosed annually with an STD. In the ten year period to 2002, the NHS in the UK reported that
the number of STD patients doubled, with 1 in 10 of the entire UK adult population now estimated
to be infected with Chlamydia.
Current diagnostic practice is unable to provide results in a timely manner that would allow the
early commencement of appropriate treatment that could provide improved control over the
further spread of infection in the community. There is a clear unmet need for a simple and
objective test for the most common and clinically important vaginal infections that is capable of
delivering results within the time period of a normal patient visit.
The portable OPTI CCA analyser
Over 800 new OPTI CCA instruments sold in 2003/4
increasing the active installed base of units to over
4,000 from which repeat consumable sales
will be generated. Osmetech Annual Report 2004    5
300
250
200
150
100
50
0 1999 2000 2001 2006
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
Good progress has continued to be made with the development of a device capable of satisfying
this market requirement. The device’s automated testing process has been clinically tested and has
provided results comparable to the manual methods currently used. This is an important step and
the tests will now be optimised further and combined within the single platform device prior to the
commencement of clinical trials. FDA regulatory approval for the combined device will be required
prior to launch in the US in 2005.
Financial review
Sales revenues totalled $10,453,000 (£6,180,000), with 38% representing direct US sales and the
remainder through third party distributors serving other markets. In product terms, the highly
reliable repeat consumable sales accounted for 65% of total business revenues.
The gross profit margin was abnormally high at 55.8% reflecting the successful utilisation of slow
moving and redundant inventory acquired as part of the purchase of the OPTI business.
The profitable trading of OPTI together with the significant reduction in the cost base of the
remainder of the business has contributed to a substantial reduction in the loss for the year to
£1,168,000 (2003 – £3,667,000). Development costs associated with the new product introductions
will however increase in the coming year.
Cash outflows before financing at £2,084,000 were higher than the reported loss for the year,
reflecting the final payments of the deferred consideration of $795,000 (£422,000) for OPTI
together with an increase of £474,000 in trade debtors due to the growth of the business over the
full trading period.
Following the £2,000,000 placing to institutional investors in October 2003, the Group ended the year
with cash balances and term deposits of £3,172,000. This represents a strong cash position and we
are satisfied that the Group should have sufficient funds available to launch all of the new OPTI
products scheduled for the coming year through to the launch of the integrated vaginal infection
device.
All of OPTI’s sales revenues and the majority of its costs are dollar based. The surplus of dollars
that this generates broadly matches the dollar requirements for the rest of the Group.
Global Near Patient and Point of Care
Blood Gas Testing Market (revenues $m) 
The market segment has grown significantly in recent
years and is expected to grow at an annual rate of
13% over the 5-year period 2001-6 as more testing
moves away from the central laboratory setting 6 Osmetech Annual Report 2004  
Chief Executive Officer’s review
continued
Outlook
The relocation of Osmetech’s operational base to Atlanta has been extremely successful and our
thanks go to all our employees, old and new, for making this move and indeed this year as
productive and encouraging as it has been.
We have a high quality operational infrastructure capable of supporting the continued growth of
the business.  We expect to be able to build on the excellent performance of OPTI this year and
are confident of significant growth commencing in the second half of next year through the new
product introductions and the IDEXX relationship.
Osmetech is well placed in a fast growth market sector, with a strong commercial business base
and access to enabling technologies, including its proprietary electronic nose technology, capable
of meeting the market requirements for new products.  We will also continue to search for
opportunities through suitable acquisitions to further stimulate this growth.
James White
Chief Executive Officer 
5 August 2004
