 Chairman’s message
 
Gene therapy is the future
In November 2012, the European Commission approved 
its ﬁrst gene therapy product, Glybera
®
, to treat patients 
suffering from a rare disease. This key regulatory and 
industry milestone supports the future for gene therapy  
in major markets, particularly the US where a gene 
therapy product is yet to be licensed. We are seeing 
greater interest than ever in gene therapy and, with  
a leading gene therapy technology platform in terms  
of its design, manufacturing and clinical development 
status, I believe we are now very well-positioned to 
exploit the considerable effort that has been invested  
over a number of years.
Biotech is coming back…
The EU biotechnology sector as a whole gained 25.8%  
in 2012 (versus -33% in 2011) outperforming the larger 
pharmaceutical sector and the broader market indices 
(source: Nomura Code European Biotechnology Index). 
Whilst this highlights the volatile nature of the sector, it 
also appears to underline increasingly positive investor 
sentiment. In terms of UK biotechnology, performance 
was not as strong, largely due to investors’ continued 
aversion to risk. However, we are seeing signs of renewed 
interest in the sector and an opportunity for recognised 
technology leaders to prosper.
Finding tomorrow’s treatments
The pressures on the healthcare industry continue, 
particularly given the resource constraints across  
payers, pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology 
innovators. With ageing populations and growing 
societies in emerging markets, the industry needs  
to accelerate medicines for diseases which impose  
a signiﬁcant social burden, such as chronic and 
neurodegenerative conditions. It is exactly these sorts  
of indications which Oxford BioMedica can target  
with its LentiVector
®
 platform product candidates.
Strategy commitment
Our strategy remains to build a ﬁnancially self-sustaining 
company, based on our proprietary LentiVector
®
  
platform, targeting high value, fast growing markets  
such as ophthalmology. There is potential for four 
revenue streams: i) through the exploitation of our 
existing product portfolio, ii) by developing new product 
opportunities iii) by securing specialist manufacturing 
alliances and iv) by leveraging our intellectual property.  
In addition, the Board is continuing to seek out 
complementary acquisitions as a means to secure 
commercial success. 
Board change
I am delighted that Martin Diggle joined the Board in 
October 2012 as a non-Executive Director. He has a 
wealth of ﬁnancial investment experience across many 
sectors and through Vulpes Investment Management,  
of which he is a founder, he has been a supporter of  
a number of life sciences businesses. The Vulpes Life 
Sciences Fund is our largest shareholder and Martin  
brings a clear investor’s perspective to the Board.
In conclusion
I believe that Oxford BioMedica has a unique contribution 
to make to healthcare and there is a great sense of pride 
in what we do within the Company. Our employees have 
once again made a considerable effort during 2012 and 
we are grateful for their contribution. We have some 
exciting prospects ahead and, with a highly-experienced 
team leading the evolution of the Company, I am 
conﬁdent that our science and our strategy will deliver.
Nick Rodgers
Chairman
Nick Rodgers
Chairman
Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 08 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 04
Oxford BioMedica delivered another year of strong operational progress 
during 2012. Highlights included the MHRA approval of our manufacturing 
facility; Sanoﬁ’s US$3 million option exercise payment for StarGen
™
  
and UshStat
®
; and the raising of a further £11.6 million. These developments 
highlight our commitment to creating value in the business and we are 
grateful for the continued support from our shareholders.
