 Gene therapy advantages
The current leading treatment for wet age-related
macular degeneration requires repeated injections
directly into the eye. RetinoStat could require only
a single or infrequent administration, and could
also provide a safer and more efficient means of
inhibiting angiogenesis.
Leveraging in-house expertise
Given our expertise and know-how in developing gene
therapies, we have primary responsibility for advancing
the four ocular programmes through Phase I/II trials and
the associated costs will be reimbursed by our partner.
Sanofi-aventis then has the option to assume responsibility
for further development and commercialisation of these
products.We have established an experienced in-house
team to drive the programmes forward. Furthermore,
there is considerable scope to expand the collaboration
with the addition of other indications and related product
candidates. For example, RetinoStat could be evaluated as
a treatment for diabetic macular oedema.
Introduction Business Review
Operational Review
LentiVector
Chairman’s Statement Business Review
Operational Review
LentiVector
Technology Overview Financial Statements Appendix
Operational Review
LentiVector®
OCULAR GENE THERAPIES
In collaboration with sanofi-aventis, we are
advancing four preclinical LentiVector-based
product candidates into clinical trials for the
treatment of ocular diseases: RetinoStat for wet
age-related macular degeneration, StarGen for
Stargardt disease, UshStat for Usher syndrome
1B and EncorStat for corneal graft rejection.
This landmark collaboration is a significant
milestone for the Company and an
endorsement of our LentiVector technology.
Furthermore, sanofi-aventis’ investment in the
LentiVector platform benefits our development
programmes in other therapeutic areas.
Financial support
The collaboration, signed in April 2009,
included an upfront receipt of US$26 million
(£17 million) and up to a further US$24 million
in development funding over three years.
This committed funding is based on a joint
development plan that is designed to progress
all four candidates into the clinic in 2010-11.
If successful, Oxford BioMedica will receive
further undisclosed license fees, milestone
payments and royalties on product sales, the
terms of which are consistent with other deals
of this scope and size.
Development on track
RetinoStat is the most advanced clinical
candidate. In 2009, we reached agreement with
the FDA on the requirements for RetinoStat’s
Investigational New Drug (IND) application.
We are on track to complete the non-clinical
package and submit the IND application for
RetinoStat in the third quarter of 2010.We aim
to conduct the Phase I/II trial at the Wilmer Eye
Institute at Johns Hopkins in Baltimore, USA, in
partnership with a renowned expert in ocular
gene therapy. Our second candidate, StarGen,
is also expected to enter clinical development
before the end of 2010.We are working with
a prospective Principal Investigator based in
Paris, who is a leading clinician in Stargardt
disease, and we plan to submit a Clinical Trial
Application for StarGen to AFSSAPS in the
second half of 2010.
Orphan drug designation
StarGen and UshStat received orphan
designation from the Committee for Orphan
Medicinal Products of the European Medicines
Agency (EMA) for Stargardt disease and retinitis
pigmentosa arising as a result of Usher syndrome
1B respectively. Both of these hereditary
disorders are caused by abnormalities in
specific disease-related genes and can lead to
vision loss from an early age.The EMA grants
orphan drug designation to products that
may provide a significant advantage in the
treatment of chronically debilitating conditions
affecting up to five in 10,000 people in the
European Union.With orphan drug designation,
StarGen and UshStat will benefit from
development, regulatory and commercial
advantages, including reduced regulatory fees
and ten years of marketing exclusivity.We are
seeking a similar designation in the USA.
Market opportunity
Our lead candidate, RetinoStat, is addressing a
major cause of blindness. Age-related macular
degeneration (AMD) affects an estimated 25 to
30 million people in the Western world and the
wet form accounts for 90% of all severe vision
loss from the disease. RetinoStat is designed to
require less frequent injections into the eye
than current therapies for wet AMD, a major
marketing advantage for this disease. Our three
other product candidates are also addressing
important unmet needs in ophthalmology.
There are currently no existing treatments for
Stargardt disease, Usher syndrome and corneal
graft rejection. Our gene-based approaches
have unique potential to benefit patients and
families affected by these debilitating ocular
diseases.
MONUDIN®: motor neuron disease
The preclinical development of MoNuDin is
supported by the UK Motor Neurone Disease
Association, the US ALS Therapy Development
Institute and the US Muscular Dystrophy
Association. MoNuDin has shown promising
results in early preclinical studies and we are
optimising the product for clinical trials.
Our LentiVector technology has the ability to
deliver genes safely and efficiently to the
neuronal cells affected by motor neuron
disease.We are working with UK and US non-
profit organisations to accelerate MoNuDin’s
development and to explore new disease-
specific pathways as potential targets for
genetic intervention.
Extended collaboration
In 2009, we successfully completed the first
phase of our research collaboration with the
US non-profit organisation, the ALS Therapy
Development Institute (ALS TDI).The
collaboration is funded by the US Muscular
Dystrophy Association and provides access to
the ALS TDI’s extensive gene expression
database and drug screening capabilities for
motor neuron disease.The first phase of the
collaboration included the development of
new techniques to evaluate and identify gene
therapy candidates at the ALS TDI’s US research
facility in Cambridge, MA.
We announced the extension of this
collaboration with the ALS TDI in January 2010.
In the second phase, the ALS TDI is conducting
further preclinical efficacy studies of MoNuDin
in established models of motor neuron disease.
Furthermore, the joint teams are exploring
other LentiVector-based approaches to inhibit
or regulate specific genetic pathways associated
with disease onset or progression.
Market opportunity
Despite being one of the most common
neurodegenerative diseases of adult onset,
motor neuron disease has a high unmet need.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), often
referred to as Lou Gehrig's disease, is the most
prevalent type of motor neuron disease. In the
USA, there are an estimated 30,000 patients
with ALS and nearly 6,000 new cases are
diagnosed annually (source: ALS Association).
Only one drug is approved for the treatment of
ALS, and its only benefit is a modest increase in
survival time. If MoNuDin proves to be an
effective neuroprotective treatment that can
slow or arrest injury to patients’ motor neurons,
it would have compelling competitive
advantages.
Oxford BioMedica plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
21 Oxford BioMedica plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
20
Ocular Gene Therapies
Highlights
• Landmark partnership with
sanofi-aventis in ophthalmology
• Received US$26 million up-front payment
• Committed funding for three years to
develop four gene therapies
• RetinoStat and StarGen on track to enter
clinic in 2010 Clinical opportunities
The FDA supported our proposal to pursue clinical
development of TroVax in other metastatic cancers,
notably colorectal, ovarian, hormone-refractory
prostate and triple-negative breast cancer.The
agency provided a clear path for further development
in these settings.
Oxford BioMedica plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
23 Oxford BioMedica plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
22
Introduction Business Review
Operational Review
5T4 Tumour Antigen
Chairman’s Statement Business Review
Operational Review
5T4 Tumour Antigen
Corporate Information Financial Statements Appendix
The 5T4 antigen is an ideal target for anti-cancer
treatment given its restricted expression on
normal tissues and its high prevalence on the
surface of cancerous cells. Our 5T4-specific
therapeutic vaccine candidate,TroVax, is in
Phase II development and, in collaboration with
Pfizer, our 5T4-targeted antibody therapy is
expected to enter the clinic in 2011. Another
therapeutic approach, using bi-specific antibodies,
is also the subject of collaboration discussions.
Operational Review
5T4 Tumour Antigen
TROVAX®: cancer
The follow-up analysis of the Phase III TRIST study
of TroVax in renal cancer has yielded valuable
insights into the efficacy of TroVax and the
selection of patients who are more likely to
benefit from treatment.We are working with
clinical centres and networks to start new cost-
effective Phase II trials and have implemented
a new partnering initiative, having regained
worldwide rights from sanofi-aventis.With
support from the FDA, we are targeting several
cancer settings for further development,including
prostate, ovarian, colorectal and breast cancer.
Valuable insights from TRIST
Detailed results from the TRIST study were
presented at the joint congress of the European
Cancer Organisation and the European Society for
Medical Oncology in September 2009.As previously
reported,the TRIST study did not achieve its primary
endpoint of an improvement in survival. However,
the results confirmed the findings from previous
trials, demonstrating that the anti-5T4 immune
response induced by TroVax is associated with
enhanced survival. Encouragingly, in one of the
pre-defined patient subsets,TroVax showed
statistically significant survival benefit comparable
to market leading treatment for renal cancer.
FDA guidance
In July 2009, we received final comments from
the FDA, following its review of the TRIST data,
in which the agency acknowledged all of the
points raised by our analysis.The competitive
landscape for the treatment of renal cancer is
considerably more crowded today than when the
TRIST study was initiated. Hence, we presented to
the FDA several alternative settings for future
clinical trials of TroVax.These included ovarian
cancer, hormone-refractory prostate cancer and
triple-negative breast cancer, which have clear
unmet needs and a lack of effective treatments.
The agency was supportive of pursuing trials in
these proposed indications and provided a clear
path for further development of TroVax.
Planning new trials
In future trials, the ability to select patients who
are more likely to mount stronger anti-5T4
immune responses and benefit from TroVax
could increase the predictability of clinical
outcome and the likelihood of successful
development.There is wide support from
clinicians for conducting further trials in our
targeted settings and we are exploring funding
options through clinical networks. Our aim is to
initiate at least one new Phase II trial in 2010,
the first of which will be in prostate cancer.We
expect that some of the proposed studies will
be partially funded, reducing Oxford BioMedica’s
investment.Through these studies, we are
seeking to demonstrate proof-of-concept in our
targeted cancer settings at the earliest opportunity.
Partnering initiative
The reprioritisation of sanofi-aventis’ portfolio
in April 2009 resulted in our regaining the
worldwide rights to TroVax. As part of this
agreement, we received an immediate payment
of US$16.5 million from sanofi-aventis, which
included an amount for reimbursement of
certain previously committed development
costs. Following the outcome of the FDA’s
review and our follow-up analysis of TRIST, we
embarked on an initiative to re-partner TroVax.
Partnering TroVax for Phase III development
remains a key strategic priority for Oxford
BioMedica, and discussions are underway.
Market opportunity
The global cancer market is expected to
generate sales in excess of US$60 billion in 2010.
The market for therapeutic cancer vaccines,
although minimal at present, has the potential
to mirror the growth seen in the monoclonal
antibody market, and reach sales in excess of
US$5 billion by 2012 (source: Research and
Markets).With the potential to benefit patients
with some of the most common cancers,TroVax
could capture a significant share of the market.
We believe that, unlike renal cancer, abnormal
haematology is less evident in patients with
most other types of solid tumours. Hence, we
believe the exclusion of such patients from
future trials has only a modest impact on the
market opportunity for TroVax.
Cross-license agreement
In January 2010, we reached a settlement and
cross-license agreement with Bavarian Nordic to
resolve patent litigation by Bavarian Nordic in
the USA and our opposition to Bavarian Nordic’s
European MVA-BN® patents. Under the
agreement, Bavarian Nordic granted Oxford
BioMedica a license to its patents in return for
being granted a license to our heterologous
prime-boost patents and a sub-license to
poxvirus patents that we licensed from
sanofi-aventis. All pending litigation has ceased
and we are exploring possible collaboration
opportunities with Bavarian Nordic to leverage
both companies’ expertise in poxvirus vaccines.
Oxford BioMedica and Bavarian Nordic are
entitled to undisclosed milestone and royalty
payments on commercialisation of the other’s
respective product.
TRIST insights
Exploratory analyses of the TRIST data
identified a relationship between patients’
blood cell counts and TroVax-related survival
benefit.TroVax was less beneficial in patients
with aberrant levels of certain blood cells at
the start of the study. Excluding these patients,
there was a promising survival trend in favour
of TroVax versus placebo and the indicative
efficacy was consistent with the study’s
primary endpoint.
TroVax®
Highlights
• Further analysis of Phase III TRIST study
confirmed subset efficacy
• Received US$16.5 million settlement fee
from sanofi-aventis
• Support from FDA for further trials in
multiple cancers
• Phase II trial in prostate cancer expected to
start in 2010
