 Oxford BioMedica plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2011 08
Portfolio progress
The initiation and development of three pioneering Phase I/II ocular  
gene therapy studies is not only a historic milestone for Oxford BioMedica,  
but is also of great significance to the field of ophthalmology – particularly  
in orphan indications such as Stargardt disease and Usher syndrome. 
ProSavin
®
 continues to generate positive data in the current Phase I/II study  
in Parkinson’s disease and further product optimisation provides significant 
potential to increase benefit for patients and reduce the development risk, 
thus enhancing the commercial opportunity. Whilst recruitment for our 
TroVax
®
 Phase II study in prostate cancer is challenging given the new 
treatment landscape in the US, the support and enthusiasm from the oncology 
community is encouraging and we are pleased to be working with multiple 
academic groups on the future development of this important asset. 
Alongside our core programmes, the new collaborations with Mayo Clinic, 
ImaginAb and our strengthened alliance with Pfizer further validate our 
innovative technology platforms.
Proprietary manufacturing
The new manufacturing facility is expected to deliver long-term operational 
and financial efficiencies and will support our products through Phase II, 
Phase III and to market. It also provides the opportunity for us to become the 
LentiVector
®
 platform supplier of choice for our current and future partners 
which could provide additional revenues. The successful commissioning of 
the manufacturing facility is a significant achievement for Oxford BioMedica 
and the hard work continues in preparation to secure our MHRA license  
to support clinical manufacturing and supply.
Partnering initiative
Building the value of novel products takes time. As a biopharmaceutical 
company we continuously aim to enhance our assets to reinforce patent 
protection, optimise cost of goods and increase the commercial opportunity 
at all levels of development. Whilst we cannot influence data, during 2011  
we improved elements within our control for ProSavin
®
 and TroVax
®
 such as 
clinical analyses, regulatory pathways, future trial design and manufacturing. 
We are actively pursuing multiple initiatives to secure further funding for  
our core programmes and continue to evaluate development strategies  
in light of our financial resources.
Financial management
Our cash position at 31 December 2011 was £14.3 million and we have 
sufficient financial resources to fund the business until Q1 2013. This does  
not take into account potential milestone payments should Sanofi elect 
to exercise its options for the ocular products during 2012, nor does it  
factor in potential revenue from partnering deals. However, until we reach 
sustainable profitability we continue to strike a balance between growing  
the Company whilst also being careful with costs. During 2011 we reviewed 
the Company’s business operations to implement a stronger emphasis  
on clinical development and commercialisation. Our aim is to ensure that 
Oxford BioMedica is an efficient, focused and resilient organisation. As a result, 
management has reduced the Company’s cost base, implemented a reduction 
in headcount of 16 staff and closed the US office in San Diego, California. 
Outlook
As I have said before, I believe Oxford BioMedica has strong fundamentals,  
an exciting development pipeline and a commercially-focused management 
team. Whilst securing further funding for ProSavin
®
 has taken longer than 
expected, our achievements during 2011 demonstrate our ability to deliver 
operational progress. With multiple opportunities ahead, we remain confident 
in our ability to bring in future revenue and continue to run the business  
in order to deliver on our strategy.
John Dawson
Chief Executive Officer 
Chief Executive’s  
Review
Following the £20 million 
fundraising at the start of 2011,  
we set ourselves multiple R&D and 
commercial milestones for the year. 
With three IND approvals from  
the US regulatory agencies within 
12 months, our ocular portfolio  
is progressing extremely well and 
we have successfully commissioned 
our new manufacturing facility. 
Whilst ProSavin
®
 has produced  
the most encouraging results to 
date, we are taking an appropriately 
prudent approach towards the  
next key stage of development. 
With further product optimisation, 
we will ensure the greatest chance 
of success in randomised studies. 
With careful consideration  
towards our financial resources,  
we continue to evaluate the most 
effective strategies to further 
advance our products towards 
commercialisation.
John Dawson
Chief Executive Officer
