 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2011 06
 
Pursuing partners to help take  
programmes forward
With one of the broadest patent estates in our chosen 
fields, we are well-positioned to leverage the value of 
our products and intellectual property through strategic 
partnerships. We are actively pursuing multiple partnering 
initiatives with a primary focus on ProSavin
®
 and 
TroVax
®
. For TroVax
®
 in particular we are also exploring 
collaborations through clinical networks which provide 
significant leverage for our investment. With patience  
and tenacity, we believe that we can secure strong deals 
with the right partners for our innovative products.
As a biopharmaceutical company we continuously  
aim to enhance our assets to reinforce patent life, 
optimise cost of goods and increase the commercial 
opportunity at all levels of development. During 2011  
we improved elements for ProSavin
®
 and TroVax
®
 such 
as clinical analyses, regulatory pathways, future trial 
design and manufacturing. We are actively pursuing 
multiple initiatives to secure further funding for our  
core programmes and continue to evaluate development 
strategies in light of our financial resources.
Key achievements 2011
—     N ew L entiV ect or
®
 platform collaboration  
with Mayo Clinic, USA for chronic glaucoma
—    Broadened partnership with Pfizer to include  
in vitro diagnostic use of 5T4 antibodies
—     Collaboration with ImaginAb to engineer a 
5T4-based in vivo diagnostic imaging agent
Focus 2012
—    Continue to seek to leverage the value  
of our intellectual property through strategic 
partnerships
—    Actively pursuing multiple initiatives to secure 
further funding for our core programmes
Manage risks and resources
Realising the value of pioneering innovation within  
the field of biotechnology comes with inherent  
risk. Our strategy is to mitigate both technical and  
financial risk through partnerships that bring the  
clinical, regulatory and commercialisation capabilities 
required to maximise the market potential of our novel 
treatments. We take careful consideration in allocating 
resources and remain focused on developing our core 
products which we believe have the highest potential  
in the near-term.
Until we reach sustainable profitability we continue  
to strike a balance between growing the Company 
whilst also being careful with costs. During 2011  
we reviewed the Company’s business operations to 
implement a stronger emphasis on clinical development 
and commercialisation. Our aim is to ensure that  
Oxford BioMedica is an efficient, focused and resilient 
organisation. With multiple opportunities ahead, we 
remain confident in our ability to bring in future revenue 
and continue to run the business in order to deliver  
on our strategy.
Key achievements 2011
—   £20 million fundraising completed  
 on 10 January 2011
—   2011 review of business operations  
 to implement stronger emphasis on clinical  
 development and commercialisation
—    Reduction in cost base
Focus 2012
—   Continue to strike a balance between  
 growing the Company whilst also being  
 careful with costs
—    Ongoing review of how best to finance  
 the Company to allow us to achieve our  
 strategic aims
Progress at a Glance
Our strategy for success
Strategic objectives: Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2011 07
Ensuring timely delivery  
of pipeline
There is a sense of urgency in what we do and timely 
delivery is a core component of Oxford BioMedica’s 
strategy. As one of the leading companies in the field  
of gene therapy and immunotherapy, we work 
closely with regulatory agencies to define appropriate 
development pathways. As with other biotechnology 
companies in the sector, forecasting product 
development timelines is particularly challenging, 
especially with our product candidates which are based 
on ground-breaking science and have the potential  
to offer new treatment paradigms. We endeavour  
to provide guidance on timelines based on our best 
assumptions and are committed to ensuring timely 
delivery of our goals and milestones.
Key achievements 2011
—    Three new ocular Phase I/II clinical  
trials underway
—     Furt her positi v e Pr oSa vin
®
 data announced 
throughout 2011
—    Commissioning process of new  
manufacturing facility complete and  
on budget
Focus 2012
—     Ongoing focus on delivering portfolio  
and operational progress
Seizing opportunity
Oxford BioMedica has evolved from being a research-
driven organisation into a more commercially-focused 
company. The management team has the breadth  
and depth of expertise necessary to manage the  
Company in today’s environment and enables us to  
respond quickly to market conditions and opportunities. 
In February 2011 we acquired a UK manufacturing  
facility for £1.9 million which represents a fraction of  
the cost of a new build. This investment in our specialist 
manufacturing processes will address one of the  
main hurdles associated with the rapid progression  
of products through Phase II, Phase III and to market 
and, importantly, also provides the opportunity for  
us to become the LentiVector
®
 platform supplier  
of choice for current and future partners.
In addition to organic growth, we remain alert to 
external opportunities for strategic and well-conceived 
corporate activity as a means to accelerate profitability.
Key achievements 2011
—   Acquisition of UK manufacturing facility  
in February 2011
Focus 2012
—    Our growth and success will not only  
come from commercial partnerships but  
also future corporate activity
