 Oxford BioMedica plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2011 04
Chairman’s Message
 
Tough economic environment
The complexity of today’s global economic environment has affected all 
industries, not just the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sector. Cautious 
investors are steering clear of equity markets and non-profitable, “binary-risk” 
biotechnology companies no longer dominate the UK healthcare & life 
sciences sector. However, the fundamentals of the pharmaceutical industry 
model are undergoing significant change which we believe represents  
an opportunity for innovators such as Oxford BioMedica. 
Successful pharma-biotech alliances are essential
The pharmaceutical companies best equipped to deal with the challenges 
ahead are those with robust pipelines capable of offsetting the impact from 
expiring patents and cuts in R&D. Consolidation and alliances will continue  
to transform the market as companies adapt to changing conditions within 
the industry. Oxford BioMedica has innovative technology platforms, a diverse 
product portfolio and world-class industry collaborations with partners such 
as Sanofi and Pfizer. With one of the broadest patent estates in our chosen 
fields, we are well-positioned to leverage the value of our products and 
intellectual property through strategic partnerships.
Strong management team
Under the leadership of John Dawson, Chief Executive Officer, Oxford 
BioMedica has evolved from being a research-driven organisation into  
a more commercially-focused company. The management team has the 
breadth and depth of expertise necessary to manage the Company in today’s 
environment including R&D, clinical development, regulatory, intellectual 
property management, manufacturing, business development, due diligence 
and finance. With development risk now spread across the broadest  
clinical portfolio to date, the management team has strategically focused  
on key therapeutic areas of interest such as neuroscience, ocular disease  
and oncology.
Board changes
In May 2011, Dr Alan Kingsman left the Board of Oxford BioMedica and  
I stepped up from Deputy Chairman to become Chairman. I would like  
to express my sincere thanks to Alan for his invaluable contribution to the 
Company. Dr Alex Lewis was also appointed Director of Corporate Activities 
and Strategy in May 2011 and, as a result, stepped down from the Board. 
Andrew Wood stepped down as Chief Financial Officer in February 2012 
having made a substantial contribution to the Company since its IPO  
in 1996. We wish Andrew all the best for the future and welcome Tim Watts 
who has been appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer and  
Company Secretary.
Strategy commitment
Oxford BioMedica has clear strategic priorities ahead to secure corporate  
and commercial success. The Company’s growth and success will not  
only come from commercial partnerships but also future corporate activity.  
The Board is continuously monitoring expenditure and, having recently 
reduced the Company’s cost base, Oxford BioMedica has tight fiscal controls 
in place. As with all biotechnology companies, we continue to review our 
options in terms of how best to finance the Company to allow us to achieve 
our strategic aims.
In conclusion
The operational achievements in 2011 are a result of the sheer hard  
work and dedication of our staff, so I would like to thank everyone for their 
commitment over the past year. I would also like to thank our partners and 
shareholders for their long-term support, particularly given the volatile nature 
of the global biotechnology sector. We have challenges ahead; however  
with increasingly valuable assets I remain confident that the management 
team will continue to make progress towards a strong future.
Nick Rodgers
Chairman
Operationally, 2011 was a successful 
year for Oxford BioMedica resulting 
in substantial growth across the 
Company’s clinical portfolio, the 
strategic investment in proprietary 
manufacturing, multiple regulatory 
approvals and new industry 
collaborations. However, we are 
acutely aware that securing a 
commercial partner for ProSavin
®
 
has taken longer than anticipated. 
We have clear strategic priorities 
ahead and, with multiple initiatives 
ongoing, remain committed  
to securing a strong future for  
the Company.
Nick Rodgers
Chairman
