 Oxford BioMedica plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 08
Portfolio progress
We continue to build a leading position within the ﬁeld  
of ophthalmology. Our landmark ocular partnership  
with Sanoﬁ is starting to generate milestone revenues 
following the option exercise payment received for 
StarGen
™
 and UshStat
®
. Treatment of the ﬁnal RetinoStat
®
 
patient cohort is underway; we are extremely encouraged 
by the results to date and, should Sanoﬁ choose to exercise 
its option for RetinoStat
®
 during 2013, we are eligible  
to receive a substantial milestone payment. We are also 
privileged to be working with Mayo Clinic, a global leader 
in medical research, to develop Glaucoma-GT; a novel 
gene therapy for chronic glaucoma. As a recognised 
technology pioneer, we are well-placed to leverage our 
expertise to exploit new opportunities and planning is 
underway for the pre-clinical evaluation of a tranche of 
new ocular product candidates. The ProSavin
®
 Phase I/II 
study successfully met its primary endpoint and we  
are currently evaluating a more potent product construct 
to ensure the greatest chance of success in Phase II studies.
Proprietary manufacturing
We successfully attained GMP certiﬁcation for our  
state-of-the-art facilities in June 2012, just 16 months 
after the acquisition. The MHRA conducted inspections  
in March and May 2012 to evaluate whether our 
processes, facilities and quality management systems 
were in accordance with EU GMP standards. This is  
an impressive achievement for a company of our size  
and I express my sincere thanks to everyone involved.  
Our specialist manufacturing capabilities provide a robust 
commercial arm to our business - not only to deliver 
signiﬁcant operational and cost efficiencies for our 
internal programmes but also to generate revenue  
from new alliances.
Partnering initiatives
Since we cannot fund the development of all our portfolio 
product opportunities, we continuously seek ways to 
improve the value of our assets so as to increase the value 
of future partnerships. Examples include the ongoing  
dose optimisation for ProSavin
®
 and, for TroVax
®
, the UK 
investigator-led Phase II studies which will further validate 
use of the biomarker to predict those patients who are 
likely to beneﬁt. We also continue to move Glaucoma-GT 
towards a future ﬁrst-in-man clinical study.
Financial management
Cash, cash equivalents and available for sale investments 
were £14.1 million at 31 December 2012 and we have 
sufficient ﬁnancial resources to fund the business until  
Q1 2014. This does not take into account the signiﬁcant 
potential milestone payment should Sanoﬁ elect to 
exercise its option for RetinoStat
®
 during 2013, nor does  
it factor in potential revenue from manufacturing or 
product partnerships.
Outlook
The continued success of the ocular products partnered 
with Sanoﬁ, our conﬁdence in the LentiVector
®
 platform, 
and our manufacturing capability underline our belief that 
our strategy should be founded on the development  
of ophthalmology products and the exploitation of our 
manufacturing and technical expertise. We are resolutely 
focused on turning Oxford BioMedica into a company 
that is ﬁnancially self-sustaining. To this end, in 2013  
our goals are to complete the RetinoStat
®
 Phase I study, 
generate income from our manufacturing facility and 
initiate pre-clinical development of the next generation  
of ocular product opportunities.
John Dawson
Chief Executive Officer 
Chief Executive Officer’s review
I am pleased to report that we achieved many operational successes during 
2012 – our clinical ophthalmology programmes continued to deliver positive 
results, we completed the ProSavin
®
 Phase I/II study in Parkinson’s disease  
and we received MHRA approval for our manufacturing plant. In addition,  
we received option exercise payments from Sanoﬁ and ImaginAb, signed  
a new master services agreement with Immune Design Corp. and received  
a funding award for UshStat
®
 from Foundation Fighting Blindness.  
Our progress to date reﬂects the importance of strong relationships  
and industry alliances in delivering success.
John Dawson
Chief Executive Officer
