 Oxford BioMedica plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
05 Oxford BioMedica plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
04
Introduction
Chief Executive’s Viewpoint
Strategy and Objectives
Introduction
Chief Executive’s Viewpoint
Strategy and Objectives
Chairman’s Statement Business Review Corporate Information Financial Statements Appendix
Chief Executive’s Viewpoint
Strategy and Objectives
“Our strategy is to retain maximum value from
the commercialisation of our technology
platform by working with academic and
industry partners to manage internal risk
and resources; and also to explore new
opportunities for sustainable value creation.”
John Dawson, Chief Executive Officer of
Oxford BioMedica, sets out the three
inter-related themes of the Company’s core
strategy. He reflects on the progress made
and actions taken during 2009 and describes
the Company’s strategic priorities and goals.
We operate a business model that combines in-house
and collaborative Research and Development (R&D).
Our development priorities and in-house R&D investment
are a trade-off between benefit, risk and budget constraints.
Naturally, our strategy is to optimise our investment in R&D
to get the maximum return. However, as we are constrained
by a limited budget, we have implemented a rigorous
project evaluation process and have set clearly defined
targets for go/no-go decisions.
In 2009, our R&D activities were focused on TroVax,
ProSavin and the funded ocular programmes.We also
maintained important investment in our LentiVector
platform and we continue to work with various academic
groups and charitable organisations as a cost-effective
means of advancing some early-stage opportunities. By
expanding our use of external clinical and regulatory
experts and engaging more scientific advisors, our project
teams have access to medical opinion leaders and
experienced industry professionals.
For our in-house priority programmes, we have set a budget
to achieve specific value creation development milestones
within our current financial resources.These include
completion of the ongoing Phase I/II trial of ProSavin and
conducting cost-effective Phase II studies of TroVax with
support from clinicians or trial networks.We believe that
further investment in these two programmes is the most
effective use of our resources as we seek to create value,
secure partnerships and accelerate our path to profitability.
2. Resource Allocation
Our gene-based treatments have the potential to change
the face of healthcare, but realising the value of innovation
within the field of biotechnology comes with inherent risk.
Our strategy is to mitigate both technical and financial
risk through partnerships that bring the clinical and
commercialisation capabilities required to maximise the
market potential of our products.
The structure of our ophthalmic collaboration with
sanofi-aventis illustrates our approach to risk management.
With funding from sanofi-aventis, we are able to drive the
development of our four gene therapy candidates for ocular
diseases and as these products move closer to market
we will benefit from the development and commercial
expertise of our partner.The broad scope of our partnership
mitigates our risk and leverages our technology platform.
We are pursuing multiple partnering initiatives in 2010 with
a primary focus on TroVax and ProSavin.We are seeking
collaborations for both products as we plan the next stages
of their development.With patience and tenacity, I believe
that we can secure the right deal with the right partner to
take these programmes forward.We are also seeking
partners for our other clinical programmes, Hi-8 MEL
and MetXia.
1. Risk Management
The history of biological drug development is beset with
challenges that have extended the time to market for many
of today’s most commercially successful drugs. Consistent
with other biotech companies in the sector, forecasting
development timelines is particularly exacting for products,
such as ours, which are based on ground-breaking science
that offer new treatment approaches.
As a leader in the field of gene therapy, we are working in
partnership with regulatory agencies to define de novo
development paths for our LentiVector-based product
candidates.We are committed to provide guidance on
timelines that is based on realistic assumptions and
transparency with regards to the regulatory uncertainties.
We continuously review the efficiency of our in-house
R&D efforts to ensure that roles and responsibilities are
aligned with the Company’s strategic priorities. In 2009,
we implemented several organisational changes that are
designed to enhance our productivity and the timely
delivery of our in-house development goals.
3. Timely Delivery Introduction
Business Development
ProSavin: Parkinson’s Disease
Introduction
Business Development
ProSavin: Parkinson’s Disease
Chairman’s Statement Business Review Corporate Information Financial Statements Appendix
ProSavin has the potential to address an unmet medical need in
Parkinson’s disease, offering long-lasting benefit from a single
administration with an excellent safety profile.The product could
also reduce the social care burden that is associated with mid to
late-stage disease.
LentiVector®
ProSavin®: Parkinson’s Disease
PARKINSON’S
DISEASE
Dopamine replacement
ProSavin is a gene-based dopamine replacement strategy.
Using the LentiVector system to deliver three genes
required for the synthesis of dopamine, ProSavin creates a
new source of dopamine production in the striatum of the
brain. By boosting continuous dopamine release, ProSavin
aims to restore patients’ motor function without the
side-effect associated with oral dopamine therapies.
Development progress
A Phase I/II trial in patients with mid-stage Parkinson’s
disease is advancing to a third cohort of patents.The first
two dose levels were safe and well tolerated in all patients
and showed encouraging evidence of efficacy. One year
after treatment, patients at the lowest dose level
demonstrated an average improvement in motor function
of 28% and an average enhancement in quality of life
of 42%.
Market opportunity
Parkinson's disease affects approximately 4.1 million
people worldwide and the prevalence is rising owing to
demographic changes. None of the current treatments
provide long-term relief from symptoms, yet, by 2012,
sales could exceed US$4.6 billion in the major developed
countries (source: Lead Discovery).
more on
page 18
Oxford BioMedica plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
07 Oxford BioMedica plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
06 Introduction
Business Development
Ocular Gene Therapies
In collaboration with sanofi-aventis, we are advancing four
LentiVector-based product candidates into clinical trials for the
treatment of ocular diseases: These gene-based approaches have
unique potential to benefit patients and families affected by these
debilitating ocular diseases.
LentiVector®
Ocular Gene Therapies
Introduction
Business Development
Ocular Gene Therapies
Chairman’s Statement Business Review Corporate Information Financial Statements Appendix
OCULAR DISEASE
Landmark collaboration
The collaboration, signed in April 2009, was a landmark
for Oxford BioMedica and also for the field gene therapy.
The potential commercial value of this gene-therapy
partnership is arguably unprecedented in both value and
field of application. Its broad scope is testament to the
quality and utility of our LentiVector gene delivery system.
Furthermore, sanofi-aventis’ investment in the LentiVector
platform benefits our development programmes in other
therapeutic areas.
Development on track
The first two gene therapy candidates are expected to
enter clinical development in 2010. Our lead programme,
RetinoStat for wet age-related macular degeneration, is
designed to block aberrant blood vessel growth by
delivering two anti-angiogenic genes.The second
candidate, StarGen for Stargardt disease, delivers a
corrected version of a defective gene associated with this
inherited disease.
Market opportunity
RetinoStat®: wet age-related macular degeneration
AMD affects an estimated 25 to 30 million people in the
Western world and the wet form accounts for 90% of all
severe vision loss from the disease.
StarGen™: Stargardt disease
Stargardt disease is the most common juvenile
degenerative retinal disease with a US and EU prevalence
of approximately 50,000 patients.
UshStat™: Usher syndrome 1B
Usher syndrome is the most common form of deaf-
blindness and affects around 70,000 people in the USA
and EU. An estimated 8,000 have the 1B subtype.
EncorStat®: corneal graft rejection
Corneal graft rejection is a significant issue for many of
the estimated 60,000 corneal transplant performed in
the USA and EU each year.
more on
page 20
Oxford BioMedica plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
09 Oxford BioMedica plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
08 TroVax is a novel therapeutic cancer vaccine that has the potential to offer
a safe and effective treatment option by stimulating a cancer-specific
immune response. It has the potential to prevent metastatic spread,
which has proved challenging with traditional cancer treatment.
5T4 Tumour Antigen
TroVax®: Cancer
CANCER
Unique anti-cancer target
TroVax targets a tumour antigen called 5T4.The 5T4
tumour antigen is a unique protein, which is highly
prevalent on both primary and also metastatic cancerous
cells, but is only minimally evident on normal tissues.
The fact that 5T4 is found on most common types of solid
cancer makes it a potentially valuable target for targeted
anti-cancer interventions.
Patient selection
The effectiveness of cancer vaccines depends on a
patient’s ability to mount the requisite immune response.
The recent Phase III TRIST study in renal cancer showed
that patients’ blood cell counts affected the magnitude of
their 5T4-specific immune response and, hence, their
TroVax-related survival. Selecting patients on this basis
may identify those more likely to benefit from treatment.
Planning new trials
As previously reported, the TRIST study did not achieve
its primary endpoint. However, there is wide support from
the oncology community for conducting further trials of
TroVax. A Phase II trial in prostate cancer is expected to
start in 2010. In addition, the Company is working with
clinical trial networks to explore opportunities in other
cancer settings, including ovarian cancer and breast cancer.
Market opportunity
The global cancer market is expected to generate sales in
excess of US$60 billion by 2010.Therapeutic cancer
vaccines have proved to be an elusive goal for the
industry, although recent development successes have
boosted confidence in the field.Vaccine strategies that
are specific to tumour-associated antigens, such as 5T4,
are among the most promising approaches.
more on
page 22
Introduction
Business Development
Trovax: Cancer
Introduction
Business Development
Trovax: Cancer
Chairman’s Statement Business Review Corporate Information Financial Statements Appendix
Oxford BioMedica plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
11 Oxford BioMedica plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
10
