 PACE MICRO TECHNOLOGY PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 04
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
However, as previously highlighted, the delays in introducing leading edge products
for the US market have impacted this year’s results. Nevertheless, the Board is
confident in the strength of the underlying business as payTV operators continue their
long-term transition to digital systems and the migration to high definition (HD)
platforms.
Since the year-end, the Group has made important progress in the US. Pace is now
shipping its first satellite product, an HD MPEG-4 personal video recorder (PVR), to
DirecTV, the world’s largest satellite payTV operator. Pace’s HD PVR for US cable
networks has also received approval from a number of other operators and shipments
have started to some of these, with approvals from other operators imminent. Pace’s
standard definition (SD) PVR for US cable networks is in the final stage of field trials
with Comcast. 
New Chief Executive Officer, Neil Gaydon, has initiated a number of significant
organisational changes to resolve execution issues, improve margin performance,
reduce costs and ensure Pace is best-placed to grow its business. 
Over the last two months, the Group structure has been reshaped to improve
customer focus, with a combined sales, product and engineering team for each
customer group. This approach is more efficient as management layers have been
greatly reduced while at the same time allowing new talent to come to the fore. It has
also enabled a headcount reduction of over 10%, greater transparency and
accountability, and a marked reduction in the number of contractors, without
impacting customer deliverables. 
At the same time Pace’s internal processes, with particular emphasis on product
development, are being overhauled. Pace’s development teams are widely recognised
as amongst the most talented and experienced in the industry. Nonetheless, improved
processes are required to target the recent execution problems and re-establish a
more customer focussed approach to product development. 
The changes taking place within Pace are being driven by a strengthened executive
management team. The Board and executive team are implementing new appraisal
and remuneration systems to ensure Pace’s people are appropriately managed and
incentivised to deliver significantly improved financial performance.
The global market for digital set-top boxes remains
strong and Pace’s customer base within this market
includes some of the world’s largest and most
influential payTV operators. 
PACE IS TURNING AN IMPORTANT CORNER
Mike McTighe
Chairman PACE MICRO TECHNOLOGY PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 05
Results
In the year to 3 June 2006, Pace shipped 2.2m units (2005:
3.4m) and generated revenues of £178m (2005: £253m). The
underlying pre-tax trading loss for the year, before exceptional
charges of £11.9m, was £15.6m (2005: profit of £9.1m).
The exceptional charges relate to write-downs in respect of the
US HD PVR for US cable, re-organisation and restructuring
costs, and an impairment of a trade investment. These are
explained in more detail in the Finance Director’s review on
pages 13 to 16.
After exceptional charges the Group recorded a loss before
taxation of £27.5m (2005: profit of 9.0m).
Regional Operating Review
Pace has had a disappointing year, with delivery delays on a
number of new and highly complex set-top box products. The
year was further characterised by industry-wide difficulties in
the development by third parties of silicon and software for the
new MPEG-4/H.264 compression standard. This, combined
with delays in Pace’s own software development, held back
rollout of the Group’s own advanced HD products. Pace has,
however, embraced this new compression standard as it will be
the industry’s core technology for the next 10-15 years and
Pace is now at the forefront of this change.
EMEA
EMEA remains Pace’s largest market, with total shipments 
of 1.6m set-top boxes (2005: 2.9m). In the UK, Pace has
continued to work with BSkyB, recently winning new
business for Digibox and the Sky+ PVR for shipment later 
this calendar year. The Group also shipped, albeit in smaller
quantities, into UK cable. 
The Group is now benefiting from its early investment in HD,
with Pace products being used to launch HD services by
Premiere (Germany) and Sky Italia, two of the three major
European HD launches in the year. The Pace set-top box used
by Premiere was the world’s most advanced satellite 
HD box.
Pace also continues to lead in PVR, which provides Pace with
a higher average selling price and enables payTV operators
to deliver new services to their customers. During the year two
operators, Sky Italia and Viasat, selected Pace products for
their PVR launches.
The Group commenced shipments to UPC, an important 
new customer and part of Liberty Global. Liberty is a leading
player in European cable and now owns another Pace customer,
Ntl Ireland. The new cable platform for UPC creates potential in
other markets.
Pace, along with other set top-box manufacturers and
broadcasters, has noted the potential re-interpretation 
by European Union customs authorities of customs regulations
that could result in the extension of import duties to interactive
set-top boxes manufactured outside, but imported into, the
Pace also continues to lead in
PVR, which attracts a higher
average selling price for Pace
and enables payTV operators
to deliver new services to their
customers.
  PACE MICRO TECHNOLOGY PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 06
EU. If and until any change is made, and the timing of its
implementation clarified, it is impossible to quantify any
possible impact. 
Americas
Shipments into the Americas increased to 174,000 (2005:
138,000), with shipments to Time Warner Cable in the US and
Rogers, Vidéotron and Sasktel in Canada.   
Since the year-end, Pace has made important progress with
shipments now being made to DirecTV and a number of cable
operators, several of which are new customers. Pace’s third
new US product, a SD PVR for US cable, is now approaching
the end of its Comcast field trial. As previously announced, the
approval schedule for Comcast deliveries, as a result of the
delays, is now outside the terms originally agreed in the
contract with this customer, but the Board continues to believe
that Pace will generate substantial revenues from its
relationship with Comcast.
Asia Pacific
Overall, shipments increased to 400,000 (2005: 350,000
units). Pace’s main customers within this region are based in
Australia and New Zealand, where Pace is leading the rollout
of PVR products. In Australia, the Foxtel relationship continues
to be strong with Pace its lead supplier, shipping both
standard set-top boxes and the iQ PVR for both cable and
satellite customers. PVR shipments also commenced to
Optus, which offers the Foxtel digital service to its customers.
Pace was selected to launch the PVR service for Sky New
Zealand, one of its longstanding customers.  
Board and Executive appointments
There has been significant change to the Board with the
appointment of Neil Gaydon as Chief Executive Officer in 
April and Mike McTighe as Chairman in May. At the same 
time, Pat Chapman-Pincher became the Company’s Senior
Independent Director. 
New appointments to the strengthened Executive
Management team include David McKinney (Chief Operating
Officer), Jill Ezard (Director of HR), Mike Pulli (President Pace
Americas), Ian Sharp (President EMEA & APAC) and Helen
Kettleborough (Director of Corporate Communications).
Future Markets/Technologies
Consumer demand for flat panel TVs, HD, PVR services and
high quality audio is growing, as is the take-up of triple play
bundles of voice, video and internet. 
To support satellite, cable and telco payTV operators as 
they work to win and retain high value customers seeking out
these new products and services, Pace is developing its
product range and investigating new technology opportunities.
For example, broadband IP capability is being built into Pace’s
next generation set-top boxes and the Group is working with
conditional access partners on content protection for anytime-
anywhere media consumption. Work also continues on
‘Multiroom’ technology, enabling content distribution around
the home, which is expected to support high value customer
retention for operators. Additionally, progress is being seen in
IPTV markets and a new Pace product is being launched
shortly.  
Outlook 
Over the last 12 months Pace has been through a difficult
period, from which it is now emerging. 
The Board believes that with shipments to the US underway, 
a strong performance of the business in EMEA and Asia
Pacific, and the implementation of a new lower cost, but more
effective organisational structure, Pace is turning an important
corner. Pace is in the final stage of field trials on the SD PVR
for US cable. As the trials complete and shipments start,
expected in the near future, inventory commitments will be
realised and the Group will benefit from its leading
technological and market position.
The Board acknowledges that there is still much work to do,
but believes that the changes made since the start of the new
financial year will provide greater accountability within Pace,
better customer service, and more predictable engineering
delivery.
Overall the markets remain strong and Pace has good support
from its customers and partners. Therefore the Board is
confident that the business has started to recover and will
move back into profit this financial year.
Mike McTighe
Chairman
4 September 2006 
Consumer demand for flat panel TVs, high definition, PVR
services and high quality audio is growing, as is the take-up 
of triple play bundles.
