  
This has been an exciting and challenging year, as we took the Company back into proﬁ t and grew the North American 
contribution to our business: today our North American presence drives over half our revenues. Most importantly, we have 
made fundamental operational improvements to our business, and we have begun to see tangible beneﬁ ts across the Group. 
Over the last year we have developed our global position to count more major leading operators as customers than our 
competition, making us the leading force in digital TV technology. In fact by revenue and market capitalisation we are the UK’s 
largest consumer electronics company. 
Putting Customers First
The Customer Account Team structure and methodology we put in place in 2006, placing customers at the heart of 
our business, is delivering improvements. From sales to engineering, service and support, each customer has a team 
focused on their business and technology requirements. This new highly targeted philosophy is now stabilising and 
delivering results as well as creating a scalable platform for future growth and development.
The Pace Vision, introduced earlier this year - Great products to our customers every time - encapsulates our focus. 
We are measuring progress against our Vision through three critical success factors: On Margin, On Time and On 
Quality. These targets have acted as a catalyst, inspiring and empowering our people to improve how we create 
products and deliver them to our customers. Already our ofﬁ cial independent measure of customer satisfaction has 
shown some of the best results in our history, and we expect further improvement.
Current Trading
Over the last year the balance of our global shipments has shifted, with over 50% of the Group’s revenues now coming 
from the North American market, the result of our strategy to target the world’s largest payTV operators and our early 
investment in new technology platforms. 
This year we have returned to proﬁ t, with proﬁ t before tax and exceptional items of £6.1m (2006: loss £15.6m) 
on revenues that more than doubled to £386.5m (2006: £178.1m). Product execution is getting better, quality is 
increasing and margins are improving. We expect to see the full beneﬁ ts over the next 12 months as improvements 
pass through the typical set-top box development cycle. 
Regional Performance
During the ﬁ rst half of the year we successfully worked through some challenges faced by the entire industry in the 
transition to MPEG-4-based high deﬁ nition (HD) platforms, which had impacted deliveries of some of our new and 
highly complex set-top box products. The resolution of these issues, combined with changes put in place by the new 
management team, is enabling the business to move forward. 
Americas
The US is the world’s largest market for digital television technology and we saw a six-fold increase in our shipments 
to 1.2m units from 200,000 in 2006, as we commenced new product shipments to DirecTV and Comcast, two of 
the world’s largest payTV operators. For DirecTV we are delivering an MPEG-4 HD personal video recorder (PVR) 
and have order visibility through to mid-2008. We are also delivering standard deﬁ nition (SD) PVR to Comcast and 
have committed orders in place for the rest of 2007. At the same time our North American cable customer base has 
expanded to over 30, selling a broad range of SD and HD products. 
04 Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2007
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s Review
Neil Gaydon CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
In my ﬁ rst full year as Pace’s CEO 
I am pleased to report that the 
important changes we have 
made to the business are making 
a signiﬁ cant difference to our 
performance. 
3111_PACE_AnnualReport_V10.indd   6 8/8/07   13:29:26 05 Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2007
As of 1 July 2007 US cable set-top boxes must, under Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulations, 
incorporate ‘separable security’, similar to the card-based conditional access systems used by many European 
payTV operators. To meet the new market requirements we have developed a full range of CableCARD
TM
 
products (it includes SD, SD PVR, HD, HD PVR and analogue options). The CableCARD
 
boxes are also fully 
OpenCable
TM
 Application Platform (OCAP
TM
) compatible. 
OCAP is a software layer many operators intend to introduce over the next few years to improve software 
compatibility among various set-top box vendors. Unlike other potential new entrants into the US cable market, 
we have the necessary licenses and software assets to sell boxes running today’s applications and OCAP 
applications in the future.
The CableCARD
 
range was launched in June 2007 and all products are now commercially available and 
shipping to multiple customers. Our ability to launch CableCARD
 
products so quickly to multiple operators 
with varying software requirements, was enabled by a core asset that took over three years to develop, a Pace 
middleware called Engineware
TM
. The switch to CableCARD
 
has infuenced operator buying patterns across the 
market. This was anticipated and factored into our forecasts as there will be a lower level of box orders during 
the third calendar quarter of 2007. 
Overall I am very pleased with the progress that has been made in the Americas given the particularly high 
barriers to market entry. Progress has been both in terms of the breadth and depth of customer relationships 
and the product range, which addresses a wide range of customer needs. 
EMEA and APAC
Pace has achieved long-term strong performance in these markets and this year we enjoyed solid revenue 
and volume growth as additional business was secured with new and existing customers. Shipments into 
the EMEA region increased by over 37% from 1.6m in 2006 to 2.2m set-top boxes, with APAC shipments 
increasing slightly from 401,000 to 432,000 units.
In EMEA our customers comprise a large number of the major payTV operators, including BSkyB, Sky Italia, 
Viasat and UPC. In Australia and New Zealand we work with the majority of signiﬁ cant players, Foxtel, Optus 
and Sky New Zealand. We are Foxtel’s lead supplier and recently celebrated our one millionth box shipment. 
During the year we won new business with the majority of our customers for both basic boxes and SD PVRs, with 
an increasing number also ordering HD PVR designs for 2007 and 2008. Of the new HD PVR business that has 
been signed, Digiturk, a major T urkish operator, will be the ﬁ rst to market toward the end of 2007. The product 
range for Digiturk introduced a new technical integration challenge through its use of the Irdeto conditional access 
platform and OpenTV middleware. We expect that a number of other payTV operators will want to utilise a similar 
combined solution.
We have a proud history of leading new technology developments in these markets and have created a strong 
product range. In addition to the growing demand for HD and HD PVR, there is a new trend for integrated 
satellite and IP enabled hybrid products and we have showcased our product capability at European trade 
shows during the year. The market dynamics remain attractive with the prospect of analogue switch-off in 
some countries and increasing competition between operators in some key markets for subscribers. 
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s Review
continued
3111_PACE_AnnualReport_V10.indd   7 8/8/07   13:29:41 Market trends & technology evolution
Our strategy is to build long term relationships with the world’s leading payTV operators 
and to identify and make early investments in technologies that will support and drive 
their long-term success. Consequently we are well placed to serve our markets and deliver 
returns for shareholders.
Change within our business has positioned us to take full advantage of change within our 
markets. We are in the midst of a signiﬁ cant phase of technology evolution, with global 
consumer demand for HD and PVR products and services, one of the most important market 
drivers. HD ﬂ at panel TVs have captured the eye of consumers keen for enhanced picture 
quality and have become a ‘must have’ product. 
Flat panels are evolving into high quality display devices, as it becomes clearer that there is 
little economic or technological logic building advanced set-top box functionality into the TV 
due to the different rates of change between TV and set-top box technologies. According to 
Screen Digest there will be over 228m homes by 2010 with HD-ready ﬂ at panel TVs and 
over 200 HD channels. HD demand is driving a complete replacement chain from TV camera 
through to encoder and production technology and of course set-top boxes. 
There is also strong competition between payTV operators and new market entrants such as 
telephone operators providing video services over broadband. This adds to the demand for 
HD and PVR services and other new advanced and specialist products as operators use the 
technology to differentiate their product offers to win and retain subscribers. 
HD would not be commercially viable in many markets without MPEG-4 compression; a 
highly complex technology that enables more information to be transmitted in the same 
broadcast space than MPEG-2 compression. MPEG-2, used for the last 12 years, can deliver 
two HD channels against four or ﬁ ve using MPEG-4. We understand how to turn this into 
easy-to-use consumer products. 
Next generation
Our early technology investment has enabled some of the world’s largest payTV operators to 
launch and develop new HD services. Television is evolving into a new world and we are 
constantly working on next generation set-top boxes: as part of our programme of ‘managed 
innovation’ we have identiﬁ ed several key trends requiring solutions we are now working on.
For many of our payTV customers, PVR is a core element of their service offering as it helps 
retain customers by improving the consumer TV experience, allowing them to watch what 
they want, when they want. The logical conclusion of digital recording capability is the 
desire to move content around the home, known as Multiroom technology. Developing this 
concept has not been easy and we have been working with operators for a number of years 
to devise a solution that works not only technologically but also economically with the right 
business model. Many of our customers believe wireless will provide the ultimate solution 
and while a robust secure technology is yet to be established, we are investing in research 
that will put us in a leading position.
06 Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2007
3111_PACE_AnnualReport_V10.indd   8 8/8/07   13:29:44 Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s Review 
continued
Another signiﬁ cant gap in the market is the ability to provide interactive digital services in apartment blocks and 
other ‘gated’ communities. Again Pace has invested in the trend ahead of the market and later this year we will 
move into ﬁ eld trials for our multi-dwelling technology. 
Wherever possible we seek to register our intellectual property and today have over 100 granted patents, with another 
200 applications pending. 
Operational improvements
Some important operational improvements have been made to ensure our customers beneﬁ t from a world-class 
manufacturing and operating strategy. 
We have consolidated our global manufacturing locations, with the major facilities now being centres of excellence 
in Asia Paciﬁ c and have made operating efﬁ ciencies and improvements in delivery performance. At the same time 
we have maintained ﬂ exibility and options within our operating model to ensure we mitigate and manage business 
risk. We have excellent relationships with our manufacturing partners and will continue to develop our operating 
model to satisfy customer needs.
Working with our strategic commodity partners we have implemented signiﬁ cant improvements to sourcing, 
qualiﬁ cation, availability and supply of critical components. Where appropriate, we have qualiﬁ ed multiple sources 
for critical commodities and implemented speciﬁ c commercial strategies to ensure we do not run unnecessary 
shortage risks in the supply chain.
Through greater collaboration between our engineering and supply chain teams we have taken a more focused 
approach and developed a proven methodology to address all elements of product cost. This is enabling us to 
provide customers with world class, competitively priced products. 
We have also continued to work closely with selected design partners in collaborative design manufacture (CDM) 
projects. The CDM partners we have selected complement our own expertise and give us greater ﬂ exibility in 
meeting customer requirements. In addition we have developed our offshore design capability at the Pace ofﬁ ce in 
Bangalore, India. 
These strategies are providing beneﬁ ts in ﬂ exibility, responsiveness and efﬁ ciencies, allowing a rapid response to 
our customers’ needs. 
Investing in our people
Alongside organisational and process improvements, we have also invested in the performance of our people. 
Our initial focus has been on building leadership skills, developing individuals who have the capability to make a 
direct and signiﬁ cant difference to our progress. This work has involved the Executive Team and a new grouping 
within Pace, the Leadership Group. This group comprises senior managers from across the business, empowered 
to drive performance against our strategic goals with the support of a tailored development programme.
07 Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2007
3111_PACE_AnnualReport_V10.indd   9 8/8/07   13:29:50 08 Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2007
At Pace, all of our employees, including the Leadership Group, are incentivised through reward schemes that are both 
meaningful and attainable. At the heart of how we reward people is a new performance management scheme that assesses 
individuals both in terms of their success against agreed deliverables and how they work within our behaviours framework. 
Behaviours were introduced during our restructure to help establish a new framework and philosophy around working 
with each other on a day-to-day basis at Pace. We have six behaviour themes, including Customer Focus and Teamwork 
and they have been embedded into our performance management scheme.
We have also developed our communications programme. I believe it is vitally important our people are well informed 
and have the information and understanding they need to be effective in their roles. The latest development is my 
monthly Chief Executive Update where employees from across the Group’s ofﬁ ces worldwide come together for a regular 
update on performance against our On Margin, On Time and On Quality critical success factors. 
Community and the environment
At Pace we have chosen to support local community groups based around our global ofﬁ ces through the work of our 
charitable donations committee and employees. In this way we can support a wide range of smaller organisations that 
are making a difference around where we work and the majority of our employees live. We intend to develop our activity 
in this area.
Over the last year we have supported Adopt a Family, a charity based close to our US ofﬁ ce, which helps impoverished 
local children and their families. The Pace Americas team raised funds, which were matched by the Company, through 
recycling their ofﬁ ce waste and re-selling used test disk drives, to support several projects including an after school project 
for homeless children. Elsewhere I personally supported the ﬁ rst ever Bradford Rotary Club Technology Tournament, 
which brought together schoolchildren to promote just how much fun engineering and technology can be. Meanwhile 
our people in France became involved in the Restos du Coeur organisation, which distributes food packages and hot 
meals to the needy.
3111_PACE_AnnualReport_V10.indd   10 8/8/07   13:30:02 09 Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2007
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s Review 
continued
Looking to the environment, the focus on the high technology sector has never been so great. Building on the 
introduction and implementation of the RoHs directive on hazardous materials, Pace is well prepared and fully 
compliant with the WEEE directive regulating the environmentally sound disposal of electrical goods. Not only is 
the sector facing regulatory pressure but there is an increasing global spotlight on climate change and energy use. 
We welcome these challenges and recognise our responsibility goes beyond just compliance with regulations. 
As leaders in our sector, we have continued to engage with government and trade bodies to ensure we remain 
at the forefront of new environmental developments. Although we can be pleased with our performance to 
date, we should not become complacent. The sector must respond positively to forthcoming regulation and our 
customers’ demands for energy efﬁ cient and environmentally sustainable products. Pace will continue to be an 
industry leader on these issues.
The Pace difference
Digital television is a growing market and we are working with some of the world’s largest and most successful 
operators to capitalise on it. Our products and technological skills enable our customers to deliver new and 
exciting television services at a price and quality that make payTV attractive to consumers. 
The complexity of the products we develop, the long-term customer relationships, the deep understanding of 
their networks and business models create high barriers to market entry. As we continue to drive innovation 
and focus on world-class execution, I believe we can retain our leadership position and deliver great products 
to our customer every time. 
Outlook 
I am pleased that this year we have already shown signiﬁ cant improvements against our key metrics and achieved 
our short-term goals for the business in North America. Going forward, senior management is working with a highly 
motivated and accountable organisation, one that is focused on delivering and innovating leading products for our 
customers. Through this focus on our strategy and structure, we are better placed to address our key Company 
targets of margin performance, product execution, technology innovation and operational excellence. 
While signiﬁ cant progress has been made, we are not complacent as there remains much to do, given that this 
is a highly competitive and difﬁ cult market for all suppliers to predict. Pace is working hard to deliver against our 
critical success factors in an effort to try and deliver a more predictable business within this market. 
I am pleased with the progress we have made over the last year, and I am conﬁ dent that Pace is on track to meet 
expectations for the shortened ﬁ nancial year ending 31 December 2007. 
Neil Gaydon
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
24 July 2007
3111_PACE_AnnualReport_V10.indd   11 9/8/07   10:46:29
