 Chairman’s statement
The Board of Pace Micro Technology plc established a strategy two years ago to
broaden its customer base and to align its business to the global payTV market.  The
overall aim was to broaden the geographical spread of Pace’s sales from an over
dependence on a maturing UK market, and, in particular, to obtain a much improved
position in the US market which represents an estimated 40% of the global payTV
market.  In order to fulfil this strategy, we have been investing in the US market, at the
same time as focusing research and development on more complex products, such
as the Personal Video Recorder (PVR) and products for High Definition (HD) TV.
With the announcement of the agreement with Comcast in May 2005, Pace is well
positioned to meet these strategic aims, although there remains considerable work to
be done during the course of this year to deliver on the contractual requirements. This
work makes predicting the results for this year harder than ever, however we are
confident that, by the end of this year, the business will be in a strong position for
continued growth.
The Pace Board is therefore delighted to report a further improvement in Pace’s result
for the year ended 4 June 2005.  
We have achieved this improvement by delivering on a range of new contracts won in the previous year and a series of new
business wins, most importantly in the US, due to our leadership in higher value set-top box technologies used in PVR and
HDTV. At the same time we have continued to manage the level of business costs. Several new initiatives to improve
productivity and extend our outsourcing activities are now under way as the management team recognises there is still
significant room and opportunity for performance improvement.
Results 
Profit before tax, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items improved to £8.1m (2004: £5.9m) on turnover of £253.3m
(2004: £239.9m), with profit before tax of £7.1m (2004: £3.9m).  Basic earnings per share were 5.4p (2004: 3.7p). Before
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, adjusted earnings per share were 5.9p (2004: 4.6p) and adjusted diluted
earnings per share were 5.8p (2004: 4.5p).
The Board has decided not to recommend a dividend (2004: nil).
Trading review
During the period Pace set a new record for set-top box shipments, with volumes increasing by 55% to 3.4 million. To
improve margin performance Pace has limited its role in the low margin market for free-to-air set-top boxes and shifted the
balance of shipments towards higher specification, higher-margin products for payTV operators. As a result, and with the
addition of more service and engineering revenues, the Group increased annual gross margins for the year as a whole to
20.8% (2004: 19.0%) from 16.8% in the first half. Underlying product margins for the year were similar to the prior year.
The trading environment continues to be highly competitive and the management team is driving initiatives to improve
efficiency and cost-effectiveness. These initiatives, which involve significant changes to how we manage our engineering
development process, have associated implementation costs and gave rise to some exceptional costs in the year. There will
be further such costs in the year ahead. In addition we have expanded Pace’s team of outsourced software engineers at
Tata Elxsi in Bangalore, India and engaged an additional large scale manufacturing partner with design capabilities to
complement our existing successful relationship with Solectron. 
04
Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2005
Sir Michael Bett, CBE
Chairman
R&A Section 1  25/7/05  8:31 am  Page 3 United Kingdom
In the UK, Europe’s most mature digital TV market, BSkyB continues to be an important customer as their Sky+ PVR service
expands.  We also made shipments to our cable customers Ntl and Telewest and won new business with a number of
smaller companies. Total UK shipments remained constant at 1 million boxes and represented circa 40% of total revenues.
EMEA
Shipments into Continental Europe increased to 1.9 million boxes (2004: 0.7m), largely due to our successful Sky Italia
relationship. Pace was the lead supplier in Sky Italia’s digital upgrade programme, which took place in the first half of the
financial year and volumes were substantially lower in the second half as the upgrade programme completed.  
Pace’s relationship with Premiere in Germany expanded, with new orders for PVR and Europe’s first high definition set-top
box for commercial deployment.  In Scandinavia and Germany we also continued to work with Viasat, for which we now
provide a PVR, and for KDG.  The year ended with another important customer win at UGC, owners of cable operator UPC.
Pace was selected as a key vendor to supply set-top boxes for UPC’s digital rollout in The Netherlands.
Asia Pacific
In Asia Pacific, Pace’s largest customer was Foxtel in Australia, which continued to purchase our cable and satellite set-top
boxes and launched iQ, a new PVR service for which Pace was sole launch supplier. Elsewhere we maintained our long-
term relationship with Sky New Zealand and are now working with them on PVR, in addition to establishing a number of new
relationships with operators in markets as diverse as Pakistan, China and Hong Kong. Total shipments remained at 350,000
units.
North America
In the US we continued to invest heavily, as we have done over the last five years.  Set-top box shipments reduced slightly
to 138,000 units (2004: 162,000) but the region’s contribution objective was met due to increased engineering revenues.
More importantly, we have won new business with Comcast, the world’s largest and most important digital TV operator.  The
agreement includes a set-top box order with a total purchase value of between $375 million and $550 million, a joint
development agreement whereby Pace and Comcast will work together on new technology projects and a licence for
Comcast to use Pace’s Engineware™ software platform in the North American market.  
This agreement demonstrates that important operators now perceive Pace as a technology partner that can add value. It
puts us at the centre of the world’s largest payTV operator in the world’s most technologically advanced payTV market.  We
have also shipped product to our other US cable customers Time Warner Cable and Bright House, our Canadian IPTV
customer Sasktel, and won business with Canadian cable operator Videotron. 
Future technologies
We continue to invest in technology development so that we can win the more profitable business ahead of the competition.
For example, our long-term investment in multiroom and home networking technologies – distributing television around the
home to multiple TVs – is beginning to excite our markets.  Multiroom and home networking is expected to become an
important long-term goal for advanced operators as it supports high value customer retention and revenue expansion.  
Next year we will increase our focus on the new advanced coding standards, the growth of next generation mobile and high
definition PVR platforms as well as expanding our work on alternative delivery platforms such as internet protocol television
(IPTV).  At the same time we will continue to investigate new markets in which we can apply our technological skills for new
opportunities within the Intelligent Home.  
Financial review
Overheads have increased, due to the investment required to support Pace’s new business wins.  Selling, general and
administrative expenditure (excluding operating exceptional items and goodwill amortisation) rose to £20.9m (2004: £18.5m)
and engineering development expenditure rose to £24.0m (2004: £21.3m).  As a percentage of revenue, total overheads
excluding operating exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, were 17.7% (2004: 16.6%).
The Group continued its policy of providing for all current claims relating to the alleged use of the intellectual property of
others and was able, as in previous years, to release part of the overall provision. In the year ended 4 June 2005, the level
of releases exceeded new provisions by £0.8m (2004: £0.6m).
05
Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2005
R&A Section 1  25/7/05  8:31 am  Page 4 The period has benefited from a tax credit of £4.8m relating to the agreement of a prior year tax computation with the UK
Revenue and Customs.  At the end of the year we have approximately £12m of UK tax losses of which £8m is recognised
in the form of a deferred tax asset.  In future years, when UK tax losses are utilised, the Group will again bear UK corporate
tax charges.
In January 2005, Pace agreed to pay a civil penalty of £450,000 in relation to a settlement with the Financial Services
Authority (FSA), without admitting the FSA's conclusions.  An exceptional provision of £1.5 m was made in the year ending
29 May 2004 to cover costs in relation to this matter and, following insurance recoveries and the payment of the penalty,
there has been a £0.2m release of the provision in the period. 
Net assets at 4 June 2005, excluding goodwill, increased to £53.0m (2004, as restated: £40.1m).  Net current assets were
£61.0m (2004: £54.1m).  Net cash balances at the year end were £26.4m (2004: £20.4m).  
Stocks at the year end amounted to £10.1m (2004: £10.0m), comprising £2.3m of raw materials and work in progress and
£7.8m of finished goods. The stock turnover rate was over 20 times based on year end stock levels (2004: 19 times).
Debtors of £55.8m (2004: £64.7m) included insured balances of £36.8m (2004: £38.5m).  The trade debt collection period
was 8 weeks (2004: 11 weeks). 
International Accounting Standards
In the last year Pace commenced an analysis of the impact of International Accounting Standards (IAS), which the European
Commission requires all EU-listed public companies to adopt.  Pace’s 2006 accounts will be presented under the IAS format,
which for the year under review would have provided an improvement to profit before tax of £1.9m. The principal ongoing
impact of IAS for Pace is the requirement under IAS38 to capitalise engineering development expenses, with subsequent
amortisation as product shipments are made.  
Board appointments
Two new Non-executive Board members were appointed during February.  The first, Marten Fraser, was the senior partner
at PricewaterhouseCoopers Nottingham and the second, Pat Chapman-Pincher, is a founding partner of the Cavell Group.
Bob Lambourne, a Pace Non-executive Director since 1996 has decided to retire from the Board at the AGM and our thanks
go to Bob for his commitment and diligence over the last nine years.    
Outlook
Looking forward Pace’s full year business outlook is in line with expectations. Revenues are likely to exceed current
expectations although gross margins will be lower than last year. 
In the UK, a market that is becoming increasingly mature, we expect units and revenues to fall. Revenues in continental
Europe and APAC are also expected to fall, although with a lower number of more complex units being shipped, average
selling prices will rise. In the US, we continue to focus our efforts on building our relationships with Comcast, Time Warner
and Bright House, as well as developing increasingly good relationships with other important operators.
There will be an uneven split of revenues between the first and second halves of the year, as deliveries on our new US and
European business start at the end of calendar 2005 and grow in 2006. As a result second half revenues for the next year
are expected to be significantly ahead of first half revenues, with first half results expected to be below break-even. The new
business Pace will deliver on during the course of next year includes a substantial range of new products and the outcome
for the year is dependent on good execution of these contracts. 
Pace is now in a much improved position and the Board is enthusiastic about the Company’s current and future
opportunities and is confident in the ability of Pace’s employees to deliver upon them.
Sir Michael Bett
Chairman
12 July 2005
06
Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2005
R&A Section 1  25/7/05  8:31 am  Page 5
