 Pace plc 2011 Annual Report  |  04 03  |  Pace plc 2011 Annual Report
We are now ﬁ rmly 
focused on execution 
and delivering a 
ﬁ tter, more proﬁ table 
business with strong 
cash ﬂ ow.
“I am pleased to report results in line 
with the guidance issued in November 
2011. Following the Strategic Review 
and actions subsequently taken there is 
a clear route to delivering a successful 
2012 for Pace. Our focus on operational 
improvement and effi ciency is already 
starting to deliver tangible results and 
will contribute further to our future 
competitive advantage. We continue to 
strategically invest in leveraging our 
technology assets across our markets.”
Mike Pulli 
Chief Executive Offi cer
Chairman’s Letter
Through the ‘ups and bumps’, the Group has made progress 
in key areas during the year, including the successful integration 
of the businesses we acquired during 2010, development of 
advanced technologies such as the set-top box for the “X1” 
platform for Comcast and the Home Media Centre for DirecTV 
and the strong growth we continue to see in developing 
markets, particularly Latin America.
Pace’s core is its engineering excellence, complemented by 
strong customer-focused skills and delivery capabilities.
Following the appointment of Mike Pulli as Chief Executive 
Offi cer in December 2011, we have the right leader to deliver 
on the opportunities to grow shareholder value identifi ed by 
our Strategic Review. It confi rmed that Pace operates in large, 
growing and profi table markets with differentiated capabilities, 
and established as the Group’s primary objectives:
•	 	To	build	on	our	position	as	a	world	leading	set-top	box	and	
residential gateway company;
•	 To	impr ove	on	operational	excellence;	and
•	 	To	accelerate	‘widening	out’	by	pursuing	opportunities	to	
provide Software & Services assets.
Executing on these objectives will lead to a realistic medium 
term operating margin target of up to 9%, as well as increasing 
the Group’s ‘sticky profi ts’ – which translates to enhanced 
quality of earnings and therefore multiple.
Despite challenges experienced during 2011, operational focus 
undertaken since the Strategic Review and confi dence in the 
long-term earnings potential from our markets gives the Board 
confi dence to continue building on the progressive dividend 
policy that was introduced in 2009. Therefore the Board is 
recommending a fi nal dividend of 2.50c per share, giving a full 
year dividend of 3.75c per share, an 11.3% increase on 2010.
If you have any comments on my letter or any part of the Annual 
Report, I would be delighted to hear from you either by writing 
to me at Pace or by email at Allan.Leighton@pace.com
Yours sincerely
Allan Leighton
Chairman
6 March 2012
Dear Shareholder
2011 has been a challenging year 
for Pace but, despite this, the Board 
believes that there is real potential for 
Pace to become a ‘great technology 
company’ and confi dence that the 
areas of focus identifi ed through our 
Strategic Review undertaken during 
the year provides a path to unlocking 
its full value.
Front end 2011 V10.indd 4-5 16/03/2012 11:25
