 4
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
d Overview
At the end of a year where we celebrated our 25th anniversary, I am pleased to report an outstanding period
for our business, in which we delivered against our objectives and the strategy programme.
Since I last shared progress with you there have been significant developments at Pace.  We have strengthened
our position as the leading digital TV technology company, with customer wins, new product launches and
increased market share.  Financial performance has improved, customer satisfaction is growing and we are
showing significant improvements against our Company’s critical success factors of being On Margin, On Time
and On Quality.
During the last seven months Pace teams have worked on over 30 projects for our payTV customers around the
world.  We have worked hard to develop and strengthen our position at heart of digital TV through advanced
set-top box products and new technologies that meet the needs of our customers.  At the end of the calendar
year 2007 we also announced our intention to acquire the set-top box and connectivity solutions business of
Royal Philips Electronics.  
Trading Performance
We delivered a strong performance during this period, meeting our increased expectations, due to the actions
put in place to improve business efficiencies along with exceptional performance in North America. 
Product margins, execution and quality all improved and we increased profitability to £15.4m (year ended 2
June 2007: £4.9m) on revenues of £249.9m (year ended 2 June 2007: £386.5m).  These revenues have remained
well balanced between our markets in North America (58% of total) and those in Europe and Australasia (42%).
In terms of volumes, Europe and Australasia were higher than North America.  Overall during the seven month
period we shipped 2.4m set-top boxes with average selling prices rising from £100 to £102, due to demand for
higher specification products such as standard and high definition personal video recorders.  We have been
able to meet this demand as well as win new business due to our ongoing early investment in new technology. 
Outlook
I am pleased with the results we have achieved and the depth of quality in our organisation that is enabling us
to deliver a solid, sustainable platform for growth, which is now embedded across the Group. 
Demand for our products and services is being driven by increasing competition between payTV providers, new
entrants, new content delivery systems in addition to analogue switch-off in many markets.  These
fundamental trends are expected to continue for the foreseeable future.  For example, operators are seeking to
drive up their average revenue per user (ARPU) and satisfy their customers’ demands with payTV solutions that
are both innovative and easy to use.  The competitive landscape is generating market excitement that is
stimulating consumer demand and further market development.  
Market surveys point to standard definition (SD), high definition (HD) and personal video recording (PVR)
continuing to grow.  We have been successful in leading the market for HD and PVR products, but this is still a
very new market and penetration levels, in the majority of regions, remain low.  In fact, leading analysts expect
that by the end of 2007 only 4% (just over 2 million) of the digital set-top boxes shipped in EMEA (Europe, Middle
East and Africa) will be HD.  During the same period it is expected that over 16 million new HD-ready TV panels
will have been shipped .  This is an area of opportunity we will continue to work hard to succeed in.
While the market remains difficult to predict and our performance is largely predicated on the performance of
our customers, we are confident that we are investing in the right products and technologies to meet the
demands of our growing customer base and are on track to meet our expectations for the 2008 financial year.
Neil Gaydon
Chief Executive Officer
29 January 2008
REP&ACCOUNTS_Jan08:QXP  19/2/08  13:30  Page 5 5
Report & Accounts
2007 (Jun-Dec)
d Taking a closer look
Pace continues to deliver
I am delighted to report that we continue to deliver the Pace vision of Great products to our customers every
time, for both our internal and external customers, doing so with excellence and enthusiasm.  Our portfolio of
payTV customers is the best in the world and we now have the optimum structure to deliver on their needs for
leading products.  We provide a full range of services from strategic advice as to the technology decisions our
customers need to make, through to the development and delivery of customised set-top box solutions that in
turn we integrate for each operator’s unique system and network.  Of course our relationship does not stop
there as our products, once installed, are software upgradeable, and therefore we provide long term customer
support; with many relationships going back over twenty years.
Pace has a world leading team of engineers dedicated to developing digital TV technology.  Over 60% of our
employees are engineers where we employ specialists and experts in software, hardware and systems
integration.  Our emphasis on innovation means that today Pace has been granted over 100 patents, with over
200 applications pending.  Our creative approach and the developments we have pioneered in digital TV
technology enables us to diversify with first to market profitable products that put us at the heart of the
fascinating interconnected and interoperable media universe.  
We treat our ability to innovate and lead in this way with the same emphasis and care that we treat our focus on
delivering products to our customers. Our focus on these two areas means that we can deliver with excellence
today while planning for the future of Pace, the digital TV market and our customer requirements.
Pace at the heart of Digital TV
The set-top box embodies a digital TV service within the home and is a highly complex electronic device.  That
complexity demands in-depth customer relationships and close partnerships with third party technology and
silicon providers if our products are to deliver the services our customers demand and to the quality they expect.
Pace is at the heart of making this happen; we are the hub in the value chain.  We have the widest range of
industry partnerships from conditional access providers to software application developers, ensuring we
deliver the best set-top box products for our customers.  
Our customer centric organisational structure, built around core technology requirements of our customers, has
enabled us to make important steps forward in our industry position, improving the effectiveness of these
business critical relationships.  We aim to be one of the world’s leading digital set-top box companies by
continuing to win business with the world’s leading payTV operators, growing relationships with our existing
customers, winning new customers and developing world leading technological products ahead of our
competition. 
Geographical performance
Our approach is driving performance improvements across all of our markets.  In North America, the world’s
largest market for digital television technology, we performed strongly shipping 0.9m set-top boxes in the seven
month period (year ended 2 June 2007: 1.2m). We have strengthened our US cable market position by investing
early in next generation products and have been quick to market with our new OCAP-ready CableCARD™ range
that meets new US regulatory requirements for separable security in cable set-top boxes.  Orders for our
CableCARD products are increasing, while demand for satellite products remained strong. 
We also delivered a strong performance in EMEA and APAC markets, achieving a level of shipments into the
EMEA region of 1.3m set-top boxes (year ended 2 June 2007: 2.2m), and shipments into the APAC region of 0.2m
(year ended 2 June 2007: 0.4m).  Demand for our HD PVR grew. Digiturk recently launched its HD PVR service
using Pace set-top boxes, which is the first implementation of our new Irdeto conditional access / OpenTV
middleware platform.  As anticipated this platform is enabling us to win new customers and in September we
announced, Multichoice in South Africa.  Multichoice is typical of the customers we work with: the leading payTV
operator in a region with rights to the best content, strong engineering and a customer base receptive to the
latest developments in digital TV technology.  Most recently it was announced that we will supply Viasat for their
HD PVR launch in the Nordic countries.  A Pace team has been working on this product to create the specific,
customised HD PVR the customer requires for its service.  Each operator set-top box we create requires a unique
product development and one which also creates a good return on investment.
REP&ACCOUNTS_Jan08:QXP  19/2/08  13:30  Page 6 6
These new business wins have extended Pace’s customer-base of leading payTV operators that includes BSkyB,
Sky Italia, and UPC in EMEA.  In Australia and New Zealand Pace has continued to ship products to Foxtel, Optus
and Sky New Zealand.   
d New Developments and diversification
Pace’s Retail Product Range
Pace is at the centre of the digital TV market, with a very experienced understanding of the needs of both
operators and consumers.  For the last 10 years our focus has been on strengthening and developing our
relationships with operators, to provide outstanding set-top boxes and network products that access payTV.
Pace is now preparing to bring to market a product range that allows "pay-as-you-go" business models where
consumers can mix some subscription channels with on-demand movies and free content.  Consumers will be
able to purchase this product range direct through their retailer.  This is another example of Pace’s commitment
to innovate where there is a clear market need for a solution. 
Networks 
At the International Broadcasting Convention in September 2007, we announced the launch of Pace Networks,
a new business unit that will open new markets for us further up the chain in the delivery of digital content by
utilising our skills in TV, DVB, DOCSIS and IP technologies.  This business will use a different business model and
route to market to those employed in our set-top box business to reach both existing customers and customers
in new and different markets.  
The first Networks product is Pace MultiDweller™, which we have been developing for the last couple of years
and enables operators to deliver a full suite of interactive digital services to customers in multi-dwelling units
(MDUs), including digital video, broadband and telephony.  Today over 50% of Europe’s population live in MDUs.
MultiDweller is a very cost effective and easy to install method of converting existing distribution networks
within MDUs into high-speed triple-play bi-directional networks, without the need for any modification or
additional cabling.  We will not only provide the consumer premise equipment, but will licence the set-top box
technology to enable third party set-top box manufacturers to communicate with MultiDweller.  We are already
working with our first customer and I am excited about the possibilities and opportunities Networks could open
up for us.
New Pace with broader and deeper reach
Our intention to acquire the Philips STB and CS Business, announced on 19th December 2007, carries the aim of
creating a leading centre of excellence in the set-top box industry.  Pace and Philips have a shared heritage in
the set-top box market of over 20 years each and there is a strong complimentary and strategic fit from
customer, product, geographic, culture and scale perspectives.  
The transaction would result in the acquisition of two key business units from Royal Philips Electronics.  These
assets are the Set-top Box and Connectivity Solutions Units, with the latter developing products that include
advanced residential gateways for home networking and internet connectivity.  We believe there is potential for
substantial benefits and growth by applying our proven operating model and structure to the Philips business.
Our approach has delivered a material improvement in our operating and financial performance, as can be seen
from the 2007 results.
To conclude, I am pleased to report a confident view of progress for the next year with opportunities for growth
in existing and new markets.
Neil Gaydon
Chief Executive Officer
29 January 2008
REP&ACCOUNTS_Jan08:QXP  19/2/08  13:30  Page 7
