 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc 05
Overview
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
“ We have delivered a strong set of 
ﬁnancial results, made good progress 
on our Strategic Plan and laid the 
foundation for continued improvement 
in operating performance over the next 
few years.”
The Strategic Review we undertook in 2011 highlighted that we 
operate in sustainable and proﬁtable markets where we have 
differentiated capabilities; however, the Group must execute on 
its three primary objectives to take advantage of the opportunities 
for improving both the level and quality of its earnings. The Group 
is focused on these objectives and has made good progress 
both in delivering strong results in 2012 and paving the way 
for improvement in 2013 and beyond.
This progress is reﬂected in 2012 revenues of $2,403.4 million, 
up 4.1% on 2011, and adjusted EBITA of $158.1 million, equivalent 
to 6.6% of revenues, up 0.5ppt on 2011. Prior to the impact 
of Hard Disk Drive (HDD) supply disruption, Pace delivered 
an adjusted EBITA margin of 7.3%, up 0.9ppt on 2011.
Strategic plan
Transform core economics
Focus on operating efﬁciency has delivered sustainable savings 
in the year and Pace is well underway in the transformation of its 
supply chain that will deliver tangible beneﬁts in 2013 and beyond.
 — Operating expenses (pre-IAS 38 adjustments) reduced by 
$33.0 million (10.6%) in 2012. This was achieved through the 
scaling down of corporate resources and a reorganisation of 
the Americas and International business units, whilst continuing 
to invest in the growth areas of Software and Services. As such, 
research and development expenditure as a percentage of 
underlying administrative spend increased by 2.4ppts to 57 .0% 
(2011: 54.6%), a trend we intend to continue.
Summary
 The Group focused on its strategic 
objectives and has made good progress 
both in delivering strong results in 2012 
and paving the way for improvement 
in 2013 and beyond
 The focus on operating efﬁciency through 
our transform core economics strategy has 
delivered sustainable savings
 Pace has remained at the forefront 
of technological change with advanced 
Media Server hardware supplied into 
key customers
 Good progress has been made in growing 
our Software and Services revenue, 
with important wins underpinning further 
growth in 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc 06
Overview
Continued
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
Strategic plan continued
Transform core economics continued
 — The disruption to HDD supply resulting from ﬂooding in 
Thailand was a major challenge in 2012. However, through 
keen operational focus and working closely with suppliers 
and customers, the impact of this issue was contained 
within the ﬁrst half of the year, with an adverse impact of 
$76.8 million to revenue and $23.1 million to operating proﬁt, 
well below initial expectations. 
 — Signiﬁcant progress has been made in the rationalisation and 
transformation of our supply chain. In H2 2012, we selected 
two core Electronics Manufacturing Services (EMS) partners 
and aim to consolidate our manufacturing footprint around 
these by the end of H1 2013.
 — We continue to make progress in the improvement and 
reduction of our Approved Vendor List (AVL); optimised 
component selection has ensured that new platforms utilise 
fewer component Stock Keeping Units (SKUs) and leveraging 
our EMS partner relationships has enabled Pace to reduce 
the number of vendors it buys from by over 12%.
 — Inventory controls have been strengthened; inventory is now 
tightly aligned to conﬁrmed future revenues and the mix of 
stock is improved with component stock reduced and faster 
turning ﬁnished goods increased. During the year, stock 
turns improved by 19.2% from 2011.
 — Cash generation was strong throughout the year; free cash 
ﬂow was $182.7 million (2011: $8.2 million), reﬂecting lower 
capital expenditure and re-alignment of working capital. This 
has enabled Pace to signiﬁcantly reduce its net debt, which 
is now less than 1 x net debt/adjusted EBITDA
1
.
PayTV hardware leadership
Pace was reconﬁrmed as the market leader in PayTV hardware; 
global number one in Set-top boxes
2 
and Residential Gateways
3
, 
and has maintained its position at the forefront of technological 
development with the launch and deployment of Media Server 
platforms at DirecTV and Comcast, a number of Media Server 
wins across the world and continued demand for our core 
Set-top box (STB) and Gateway platforms.
 — STB and Media Server revenues were up 2.9% to 
$1,826.0 million in 2012, driven largely by the high demand 
for Media Servers in H2 for both DirecTV’s Genie™ Advanced 
Whole-Home HD DVR and the XG1 for Comcast’s new X1 
service. We expect this technology trend to continue into 
2013 and we recently announced the approval for production 
of DirecTV’s next generation HR44 Genie™ Media Server 
and C41 mini Genie™ client device.
 — The move to Media Servers and whole home solutions is 
starting to move beyond North America and Pace has achieved 
a number of key wins in Europe, Asia-Paciﬁc and Latin America 
that will be deployed in 2013 and 2014 including Foxtel, Telenet 
and Get TV in Norway.
 — Building on our global partnership with TiVo that was 
announced in H1 2012, Pace has been undertaking ﬁeld 
trials with an integrated solution consisting of TiVo software 
and Pace STBs and Gateways and is actively pursuing 
signiﬁcant worldwide opportunities during 2013.
 — Gateways revenues were up 8.3% to $469.4 million in 2012. 
Key wins in the year included MTS, the fourth largest Telco 
in Canada.
Widen out in Software, Services and Integrated Solutions
We have achieved a number of key wins and deployments across 
all areas of our Software and Services offerings and have a strong 
pipeline into next year. Revenues in this area increased 7.6% to 
$108.0 million in 2012 and we expect further growth in 2013. 
 — The Pace Elements software platform continues to gain 
signiﬁcant traction as part of an advanced integrated solution 
with a number of wins including Sky New Zealand and Foxtel.
 — Pace Elements is also a key part of our integrated solutions 
for emerging markets; we have a number of operators 
deployed with this solution (Pace hardware, software and 
Latens Conditional Access System) in India and have an 
encouraging pipeline in Southern Asia, Central Eastern 
Europe and CIS.
 — The Pace CMS software that was obtained through the 
2Wire acquisition has been rebranded as the ECO Service 
Management Suite to reﬂect the evolving offering and 
simplify the marketing message. During the year there 
were a number of signiﬁcant wins including BSkyB, Telstra 
(Australia’s leading telecommunications and information 
services company) and ON Brasil (our ﬁrst ECO win in 
the key market of Brazil). The ECO platform is currently 
supporting our customers to manage nearly 25 million 
devices across the world.
 — The Latens software-based Conditional Access and Digital 
Rights Management (DRM) business made good headway, 
with a 68.0% growth in the number of subscribers the product 
is deployed to, on both Pace and other vendors’ STB hardware.
1 Adjusted EBITDA is adjusted EBITA after adding back depreciation.
2  By volume (2011): IMS Research The World Market for Digital Set-top Boxes & iDTVs – 2012 Edition.
3 By value (2011): Infonetics Broadband CPE and Subscribers Report 2Q2012. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc 07
Business performance
Pace’s markets have remained resilient during the year, 
with PayTV continuing to show growth despite difﬁcult global 
economic conditions and perceived disruptive threats from new 
Over-the-Top (OTT) market entrants. Overall, in the markets in 
which Pace operates, digital PayTV subscribers are expected 
to grow at c.6% Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) 
between 2012 and 2016
4
. 
A major development this year has been the emergence of 
the Media Server product. As the market evolves to a more 
sophisticated digital device in the home, Pace is uniquely placed 
to support this technology upgrade cycle. A Media Server combines 
the functionality of the STB and the Gateway, augmenting traditional 
broadcast with IP-enabled services and enabling video content 
to be distributed around the home, a key component of the move 
to “TV Everywhere”. This product category will evolve to become 
the main hub of the home, enabling any data connectivity 
(video, broadband, home automation, etc.) around the home 
with both operator-provided and consumer-purchased devices. 
Pace was recently identiﬁed as a market leader in this product 
category by industry analysts IHS Screen Digest, a position 
which is forecast to continue to at least 2016
5
.
North America
North America is the largest, most advanced and most proﬁtable 
market for digital PayTV and broadband technology in the world, 
with over 110 million PayTV subscribers and close to 120 million 
broadband connections
6
. We believe the digital PayTV market 
in North America will continue to see low single-digit annual 
growth in subscribers for the foreseeable future.
Pace is the only vendor to the largest operators in each of the 
Cable, Satellite and Telco markets, serving Comcast, DirecTV 
and AT&T respectively. In each case Pace supplies their most 
advanced in-home technology. In addition, Pace also serves 
a large number of tier two Cable and Telco operators in both 
the USA and Canada.
Total revenues in North America increased by 23.7% to 
$1,317.6 million in 2012 (2011: $1,065.1 million), driven largely by 
strong demand from DirecTV and Comcast for Media Server 
products in H2. These conﬁrmed Pace’s continued position of 
technological leadership in our sector and we remain conﬁdent 
about the long-term strength of the market for our products in 
North America.
Gateway revenues increased by 14.5% to $448.7 million reﬂecting 
the continuing demand for high performance Residential Gateways 
from Telcos and Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to effectively 
deliver high quality triple-play services.
Software and Services revenues in North America increased by 7 .2% 
to $83.9 million. This revenue is primarily comprised of customer care, 
ECO Service Management software and professional services.
Latin America
The Latin America (Latam) market is a large, diverse and fast 
growing market, within which Pace serves Satellite, Cable, 
IPTV and hybrid operators across the region, with Brazil, 
Mexico and Argentina the key markets.
The overall market has expanded signiﬁcantly over the last few 
years and continues to display strong subscriber growth with a 
predicted 16% CAGR from 2012 to 2016
7
. This growth is led by 
a number of factors including greenﬁeld markets, deregulation 
in Brazil and a number of growing PayTV operators in the region. 
Demand for PayTV is strong at all levels of technology: Standard 
Deﬁnition (SD) to support analogue to digital transition, High 
Deﬁnition (HD) continues to grow to meet growing consumer 
expectations and operators are starting to develop high-end 
Personal Video Recorders (PVRs) and Media Servers for roll out 
in 2013 and beyond.
Pace achieved a double-digit increase in proﬁts in Latam despite 
revenues being down by 20.2% to $37 4.4 million (201 1: $469.0 million). 
Pace reduced supply of low end “Zapper” STBs with a resultant 
loss of revenue but has beneﬁted from focusing on high-end 
products and integrated hardware and software solutions.
Pace’s business in Latam continues to diversify; Pace is now 
providing product to eight of the ten largest PayTV providers in 
the region and is making good progress in the sale and delivery 
of integrated solutions comprising Pace hardware and software, 
as well as Gateways and next generation Media Server products. 
The Company remains conﬁdent that Latam offers strong revenues 
and proﬁtability and is strategically well positioned in key markets 
and customers in the region.
Europe
Europe remains a fragmented and highly customer-speciﬁc 
territory for Pace. Revenues in Europe were down by 12.1% 
to $402.4 million (2011: $457.7 million). HDD supply disruption 
had an impact in this region but the decrease was mainly due 
to a reduced win rate of new products in 2011, which has adversely 
affected revenue in 2012. Sales performance is improving and 
we have achieved key wins in new and existing customers.
Single-digit growth is predicted in the underlying European market
8
; 
however, we expect signiﬁcant growth in the Media Server area 
of the market as operators in Europe follow the innovation of 
North American operators. Pace has been awarded the Media 
Server business for both Telenet (the largest Cable operator in 
Belgium, part-owned by Liberty Global) and Get TV in Norway.
4, 6 IHS Television Intelligence Service 2013. 
5 IHS Screen Digest Multimedia Home Gateways: The future of the digital home 2013.
7, 8 IHS Television Intelligence Service 2013. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc 08
Continued
Overview
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
Business performance continued
Europe continued
In addition, the Group is seeing increasing demand from operators 
for integrated solutions, incorporating Pace hardware and software 
assets, that can be quickly deployed and that enable the operator 
to innovate and differentiate in highly competitive markets. Pace 
is focused on developing opportunities in this area of the 
market and has a number of projects underway.
Rest of World
Rest of World covers a diverse range of markets which are 
developing at different rates: the highly developed markets in 
Australia, New Zealand and South East Asia; the “fast following” 
markets in Middle East and Africa; and the fast growing Indian 
market. Revenues in Rest of World are down 2.7% to $309.0 million 
(2011: $317.5 million). This decrease was primarily due to HDD 
supply disruption in H1 as a number of operators delayed large 
marketing campaigns due to the higher input prices of the supply 
constrained components. 
Australia and New Zealand are traditionally strong markets for 
Pace. In H1 2012, the Company launched its ﬁrst advanced 
integrated solution with Sky New Zealand. In H2 2012, Foxtel 
(the largest PayTV operator in Australia), selected a Pace 
solution, consisting of Pace Elements software and Pace Media 
Server hardware, to deliver their next generation subscription 
TV service. The integrated whole home solution will enable 
Foxtel’s subscribers to consume, discover and manage their 
viewing experience on any screen and from any location.
India is a key growth market for Pace as the country experiences 
large PayTV subscriber growth and the transition from analogue 
to digital progresses in the Cable sector. During the year, Pace 
secured deals with a number of operators for its integrated solution 
for Cable which combines STB hardware, Elements software 
platform and Latens Conditional Access System.
The Company remains conﬁdent that these markets will provide 
signiﬁcant growth opportunities both at the high end of the market 
with HD, PVR and Media Server products and also as the uptake 
of PayTV and digitisation continues in emerging greenﬁeld markets, 
allowing Pace to increase its footprint with new customers 
through Software and Integrated Solutions.
Board changes
On 6 September 2012, we welcomed Amanda Mesler to the Board 
as a new Non-executive Director.
Mike Inglis will be retiring from his role as a Non-executive Director 
on the Board at the Annual General Meeting on 24 April 2013.
2013 outlook
Pace has made considerable progress in 2012 but there remains 
further opportunity in 2013 to develop and improve the performance 
of the Company. We have a strong management team that is 
working well together and have a relentless focus on the execution 
of the Strategic Plan. 
The PayTV market that the Company serves remains resilient 
and the demand for our products and services continues to 
be encouraging. Next generation Media Server products are 
performing strongly in the US market where technology upgrade 
is driving revenue growth. In 2013, we will start to roll out these 
products to other operators in North America and other regions. 
In addition, as the Group continues to develop its Software, 
Services and Integrated Solutions offerings, we are seeing increased 
opportunities for these assets in all markets that Pace serves.
Going into 2013, the Group has a clear plan and good line 
of sight to making further progress.
Mike Pulli
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
5 March 2013
