 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc 04
Overview
Chairman’s Statement
Dear Shareholder
Following a challenging 2011, 2012 has been a good year for Pace; 
we have stabilised the business, made very good progress on 
our Strategic Plan and delivered strong ﬁnancial results. In doing 
so we have created the platform for Pace to become a “great 
technology company”.
At the start of 2012, the Group laid out a clear plan and I am 
pleased to say that it has delivered on all aspects of this plan. 
Under Mike Pulli and the new Executive Management team’s 
leadership, many of whom have come from within Pace, we have 
a new sense of accountability across the business, underpinned 
by robust management processes and systems and a strong 
ﬁnancial discipline.
The Group has delivered improved operating proﬁts through both 
top-line growth and a focus on operating efﬁciency, which has 
enabled Pace to signiﬁcantly reduce net debt, reducing risk in 
the business and increasing our strategic ﬂexibility.
The strong operational performance in 2012 and the momentum 
we take into 2013 give the Board conﬁdence to continue building 
on the progressive dividend policy that was introduced in 2009. 
Therefore the Board is recommending a ﬁnal dividend of 3.06 cents 
per share, giving a full year dividend of 4.50 cents per share, 
a 20.0% increase on 2011. The dividend reﬂects the improved 
cash generation of the business and Pace will look to continue 
to pay a progressive dividend off this new rebased level.
“ 2012 has been a good year for Pace; 
we have stabilised the business, made 
very good progress on our Strategic Plan 
and delivered strong ﬁnancial results.”
The Group remains relentlessly focused on the execution of 
its primary objectives, as outlined in the Strategic Review we 
communicated to the market in November 2011. They are:
 — Transform core economics: improve our operating 
performance and leverage scale;
 — PayTV hardware leadership: build on our position as a 
world leading Set-top box, Residential Gateway and Media 
Server company; and
 — Widen out in Software, Services and Integrated Solutions: 
accelerate “widening out” by pursuing opportunities to provide 
Software and Services assets for current and new customers.
Pace’s core strengths are its engineering excellence, 
complemented by strong customer focus and delivery capabilities. 
This is demonstrated through our market leadership position 
in the development and large-scale deployment of advanced 
technologies such as Media Servers by major North American 
operators such as DirecTV and Comcast, and Software and 
Services wins at tier one operators across the world, an area 
we continue to signiﬁcantly invest in.
We have only just started on the delivery of our long-term plans 
and still have a huge amount to do. Nevertheless, we remain 
conﬁdent that the continued successful execution of the Strategic 
Plan will enable Pace to achieve an operating margin target 
of around 9% in the next two to three years, as well as increase 
proﬁts generated by Software, Services and Integrated Solutions. 
This translates to enhanced quality of earnings and signiﬁcant 
incremental shareholder value.
If you have any comments on my statement or any part of the 
Annual Report, I would be delighted to hear from you either by 
writing to me at Pace or by email at Allan.Leighton@pace.com.
Yours sincerely
Allan Leighton
Chairman
5 March 2013
