 Pace’s DS810 
Europe’s first MPEG-4 
High Definition set-top box.
Neil Gaydon
Pace’s new Chief Executive Officer
PACE MICRO TECHNOLOGY PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 07
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
Having taken on the role of Chief Executive Officer in April, I am now at the helm of an
organisation that has excellent customers and some of the most talented people in
the industry working alongside me. The key to success is doing a better job for our
customers by pulling the Pace team together to deliver what they need, when they
need it and in a way that delivers value for all. 
After nearly ten years at Pace, I can see that only now are we beginning to benefit
from the full potential of digital technology. Today consumers can watch what they
want, when they want, released from the confines of the schedule. High definition,
through a fourfold improvement in picture quality, is delivering an even richer and more
vibrant experience, equalling that of the cinema. 
Now with the promise of complete home systems that distribute high definition
anywhere in the home, to flat screen displays, in 5.1 Dolby digital surround sound,
consumers are waking up to a TV revolution. 
We have played a major role, defining today’s 
set-top box industry through innovations that
have helped shape a generation of TV viewers’
experiences. 
FOR OVER A DECADE PACE HAS BEEN A
WORLD LEADER IN DIGITAL TV TECHNOLOGY
  PACE MICRO TECHNOLOGY PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 08
Pace has delivered world 
firsts in High Definition
technology
IT’S JUST 
LIKE BEING THERE
The 2006 FIFA World Cup was the first major
sporting event with global High Definition coverage PACE MICRO TECHNOLOGY PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 09
We believe the market will continue to grow as payTV operators
compete to retain, grow subscribers and manage take up.
The traditional battle between satellite and cable operators continues, as both seek
out new technologies to build their market position. But new players and platforms are
bringing new challenges to the competitive environment. Telcos, under pressure to
widen their offering beyond voice and data, are finally starting to launch commercial
services. 
Moreover, broadband internet is emerging as an important content delivery platform.
This suggests technology demand will for the foreseeable future, remain strong and I
believe Pace is well placed to capitalise on operator requirements with innovative new
solutions.
DELIVERING SET-TOP BOX TECHNOLOGY 
TO PAYTV OPERATORS WORLDWIDE
David McKinney
Chief Operating Officer with Robert Sagar 
in Pace’s Test Laboratory
  PACE MICRO TECHNOLOGY PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 10
The new Pace organisation puts customers
right at the very heart of our business. 
In the last year, we have worked with customers in three core markets: North America,
Western Europe and Australasia, where demand has centred on PVR and high definition,
with a growing interest in IPTV and multiroom. However a difficult 12 months, with delays
in new product development for the US market, means we have underperformed.
Identifying long-term
trends and opportunities
New technology is the lifeblood of 
the Company as it paves the way 
to our future success. A group of
some of our most gifted people 
are working together to ensure
we can always offer our customers
new ground breaking products,
demonstration units that help 
them evaluate concepts, as well 
as create new ideas that could
eventually turn into new revenue
streams. 
Developing the reach of
our US business
To grow our North American business,
Mike, based at the Group’s offices in
Florida, has expanded his team to
ensure a successful rollout of new
satellite products to DirecTV and cable
products to operators across the
region. We provide close support for
all of our North American customers
through engineering, network and
sales people strategically placed 
in cities that include Denver,
Philadelphia and Los Angeles. 
Changing the way 
we work 
Our new approach at Pace is to
ensure that the customer is at the
heart of our business. To deliver we
have completely reorganised into
discrete teams, each one responsible
for customer groups, which in turn
are supported by cross-company
groups such as Quality and
Operations. This is enabling us to 
be much more efficient, significantly
reduce the number of management
layers and promote new talent.
Moving ahead it will allow us to
improve execution, quality and cost
effectiveness to create a more
successful and profitable business.
Mike Pulli
President Pace Americas 
David Gillies
Director of Technology 
Neil Gaydon PACE MICRO TECHNOLOGY PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 11
The Technology team, by identifying, proving and developing
innovative hardware and software solutions, aims to expand
Pace’s product range and market opportunities.
We have three technology themes - Home, Networks and
Wireless. In the Home group, significant advances have been
made in defining and prototyping architectures for secure
digital home networking solutions. 
The Networks group has developed a unique and scalable
content delivery solution to bring cost-effective digital TV,
PVR, broadband, VoIP and VOD services to apartment
blocks. Channel coding research by the Wireless group
should ensure we can create new wireless broadband content
delivery products. Pace’s R&D expansion is supported by our
local Regional Development Agency, which has allocated over
£1m to our programmes.
Finally, to bridge the gap between product and technology
development, we have created a new Advanced
Development team, dedicated to rapid prototyping of our
innovative new ideas.
Exploiting our internal competences, close dialogue with
customers and technology partners and participation at 
the highest levels in major standardisation bodies will enable
Pace to continue delivering world beating new technologies
and products. 
Anticipating technology trends our customers can exploit
to excite and retain their customers, is a critical element
of Pace’s service offering.
The DC621 for UPC in The
Netherlands, part of Liberty 
Global.
The Vegas standard definition
PVR for US Cable operators. PACE MICRO TECHNOLOGY PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 12
To position Pace for growth, we have built what is probably
the best portfolio of customers in the payTV industry. It
includes significant groups - News Corporation, Liberty Global
and US cable - plus other major operators such as Viasat and
KDG. We are focussed on delivering industry leading products
to help fuel their business growth and extend the all important
revenue per user (ARPU). 
To ensure Pace continues as an industry leader, we have
restructured into highly focussed teams that place customers
at the heart of our business and will enable us to drive on time
delivery and improve margins. This initiative has reduced
management layers, brought new talent to the fore, delivered
greater accountability and created new energy. Although there
is still much to do, we are moving ourselves into position for
profit and future growth.
Neil Gaydon
Chief Executive Officer
4 September 2006
Pace Multiroom supports up to four networked set-top boxes which
allow viewers to ‘shift’ their viewing around the home.
Our market is dynamic due to growing consumer appetite for new
technology led services and an imperative on our operator customers to 
grow businesses in markets where competition for subscribers is increasing.
