 When management set out their strategy for 2008 they promised to deliver on a number of milestones and 
I am very happy to report that they have delivered all these and more.
In 2008, despite the extraordinary macro economic environment, Pace achieved excellent growth and met all
of the management team’s targets with record revenues and shipments, a significant increase in profits and
a strong cash position with no debt. Last time I reported I outlined a margin target of 20% for 2008, with the
business achieving just over 18% due to a more diversified product mix. Going forwards we intend to use ‘return
on sales’ as the measure of overall performance as we believe we have achieved the cost consciousness across
the organisation expected from a pure margin target. 
During the year Pace acquired the Royal Philips Electronics set-top box business, and executed a swift, efficient
integration plan that delivered profitability even sooner than we expected. For the financial year 2008 we have
reported the headline results of two businesses separately so shareholders can see how the Pace France
business has performed, as well as the original Pace business. Going forwards you will see us report Pace
Group as one entity.
Pace’s success during 2008 was recognised by the business world. The Company was awarded the Queen’s
Award for International Trade, was Yorkshire Exporter of the Year and regional winner of the International
Trade Awards. 
One of the economic challenges for many companies in 2008, particularly in the electronics sector, has been
very volatile currency exchange rates: the dollar strengthened dramatically, as did the Euro. The management
team dealt quickly and efficiently with this issue when it arose in the fourth quarter, and implemented a series
of measures including an enhanced hedging policy. It is a measure of the new Group’s agility that it coped so
quickly and well with this challenge.
The Board welcomed two new non-executive directors; Mike Inglis and John Grant. Mike is executive Vice
President and General Manager of the processor division of ARM Holdings and John has held senior financial
roles in the automotive industry and other engineering businesses. I would like to take this opportunity to
thank Rob Fleming and Marten Fraser who both stood down from the Board during 2008. Rob was a Pace
founder and has made an immense contribution to the business over many years.
The Board is pleased to have seen the performance of Pace this year, and our belief in the management team,
the fundamentals of the business and the opportunities for growth give us great confidence for 2009 and
beyond. Your Board is therefore delighted to be recommending the initiation of an annual dividend, with a 
full-year dividend of 0.6p per share proposed.
If you have comments on any aspect of this letter or indeed, any part of the Annual Report, I would be delighted
to hear from you either by writing to me at Pace or by email at mike.mctighe@pace.com.
Yours sincerely
Mike McTighe
Chairman
3 March 2009
Mike McTighe
LETTER FROM 
THE CHAIRMAN
I am delighted to be reporting back to you after a year 
of great progress at Pace, in which we have seen this
business become a true world leader in digital TV.
PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 03
