 I am delighted to be able to give you a
further update on Pace’s performance,
such a short time since I last wrote to you.  
As you will have seen from the Company’s announcements, Pace has now moved to a December financial year
end.  This means that from now on Pace’s full year results will be published in the first calendar quarter and its
half year interim results will be published in the third.  This Annual Report focuses on the last seven months,
from June 2007 to the end of December 2007, reflecting the shortened financial year as we move to our new
reporting cycle.
It has been a pleasure to see the team at Pace deepen the Company’s position as the leading digital TV
technology company and take greater advantage of the revenue opportunities available in the set-top box
market.  Pace has achieved this by developing its business with new and existing customers, delivering
profitable products on time, increasing market share in important areas such as high definition and PVR as well
as investing in the right technologies for future growth.  Consequently I am delighted to see the exceptional
results your Company has achieved in this shortened financial year, which met our increased expectations.   
In my last report I talked of our goal of achieving sustainable 20% gross margins for 2008.  Through the
management’s new business operating model and hard work throughout the entire Group, we are already able
to report a gross margin of 20.3%.  
As we continue to focus on the strength of our balance sheet, the Board has decided not to recommend a
dividend payment.  We will continue to monitor this position.
At the end of 2007 we announced our conditional agreement to acquire the set-top box and connectivity
solutions business of Royal Philips Electronics.  We believe that this acquisition, if approved, will create more
opportunities to grow Pace’s business, better serve customers and provide increased scale.  More information
will be provided on publication of the Prospectus and Circular, which we expect to publish in early March. 
Good progress has been made and when I last spoke to you I said that there remained a great deal of work to
do to build a strong and resilient long-term business.  Since then I am very pleased to report that Neil Gaydon
and his team are continuing to deliver and their hard work is building a stable, mature platform for future
results.  The Board has confidence in this platform for long-term business growth and creation of shareholder
value. 
If you have comments on any aspect of this letter or indeed, any part of the Annual Report, I would be delighted
to hear from you either by writing to me at Pace or by email at mike.mctighe@pacemicro.com.
Yours sincerely
Mike McTighe
Chairman
29 January 2008
Letter from the Chairman
3
Report & Accounts
2007 (Jun-Dec)
Mike McTighe
Chairman
29 January 2008
REP&ACCOUNTS_Jan08:QXP  22/2/08  11:45  Page 4
