  
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to reﬂ ect on a good year for Pace, during which the foundations laid in 2006 began to make 
a real difference to the business and we also celebrated the Company’s Silver Jubilee. The Board set 
management a number of clear, measurable objectives in 2006 and they have achieved the majority of 
them through the careful and thorough restructuring of the business, and a focus on Pace’s core expertise 
of designing and delivering feature rich innovative products for the payTV market.
Your Company is committed to improving margins and has begun this work. During the year margins 
improved from 15.3% in the ﬁ rst half to 16.6% in the second. Overall revenues rose to £386.5m, more 
than doubling the results of the previous year. The goal we set of sustainable 20% margins remains a key 
target for 2008. During the year Pace also made a major breakthrough in achieving its goals for North 
America: over 50% of the revenues reported for 2007 come from North American customers. Pace made 
excellent progress in this region and in the rest of the world, enhancing its reputation as the leading UK 
supplier to global markets.
Pace is a highly specialised technology innovator, and it is the Company’s continuous focus on its 
customers that allows it to anticipate product requirements. In turn this positions Pace to capture early 
market opportunities, before its competition, to transform technology trends into ﬁ nished products. 
The approach Pace continues to take is to institutionalise the improvements that have been made 
to date, to ensure the business is highly professional, organised to take advantage of technology 
change, and to be ultra focused on quality execution.
Management has also worked hard to inspire the company’s key resource, its people, and I am happy 
to report that we have an extremely committed workforce. I would like to thank Neil Gaydon, his 
executive team and all of our employees for their skill, effort, dedication, and teamwork. One of the 
fascinating things about this business is its ability to attract high-quality world-class engineers to its 
sites around the world.
The Board welcomed Stuart Hall as the new Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer. Stuart joined us in April 2007 
from IQE plc where he was Finance Director. We were also delighted that David McKinney, Chief 
Operating Ofﬁ cer who has been with Pace for over one and a half years, was appointed to the Board 
last October.
There still remains a great deal of work to do to build a strong and resilient long-term business within an 
ever challenging and changing marketplace. The Board is very encouraged by the progress to date and we 
expect the improvements Neil and his team are making to continue to deliver positive results. The Board 
has decided that strengthening the balance sheet is a priority and will therefore not be recommending a 
dividend at this time. We will keep the policy under review. 
I look forward to reporting back to you at the end of Pace’s new shortened ﬁ nancial year, which will 
complete on December 31st 2007. If you have comments on any aspect of this letter or indeed, any part 
of the Annual Report, I would be delighted to hear from you either by writing to me at Pace or by email at 
mike.mctighe@pacemicro.com.
Yours sincerely
Mike McTighe
Chairman
24 July 2007
Letter from the Chairman 
Mike McTighe CHAIRMAN
I am pleased to reﬂ ect on a 
good year for Pace, during 
which the foundations laid in 
2006 began to make a real 
difference to the business and 
we celebrated the Company’s 
Silver Jubilee. 
03 Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2007
3111_PACE_AnnualReport_V10.indd   5 8/8/07   13:29:19
