 PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 04
In 2008 we shaped our business for global leader-
ship, with Pace ending the year a much stronger
business with twice the geographic reach and scale,
delivering excellent results.
Our Vision is to deliver ‘Great products to our
customers every time’ and become a renowned
leader in creating the technologies and products that
enable digital TV. We have said that we will establish
Pace at the heart of entertainment convergence in
the digital TV household, delivering on the enormous
global demand for high definition and PVR products
as well as solutions that deliver digital TV into hard 
to reach places such as apartment blocks and hotels.
We have promised that all of our work will be
underpinned by strong environmental design values. 
Pace works primarily with payTV operators, organi-
sations that own entertainment content consumers
want to watch. These payTV operators have driven
every major change in how we watch TV as they
compete to win subscribers and increase their
revenue generating opportunities, which for many is
now based on the concept of triple-play. The payTV
market has the highest barriers to entry and
demands specialist skills. Over the past 25 years Pace
has built the know-how and relationships to succeed
in this highly competitive environment. In the last
three years, following a major structural and strategic
review, we have delivered uninterrupted growth in
profits, consistently exceeding market expectations. 
Strategy delivery
Our strategy has two key themes around industry
leadership and convergence in the digital home.
PayTV offers excellent value home entertainment 
and it is delivered by operators that understand the
consumer desire for high quality, yet easy to use
content and services. The set-top box makes this
possible in the home. We are now experiencing the
positive output from our leadership strategy as payTV
operators work with Pace to seek out new services
that will allow them to retain and expand their
subscriber base and revenues. 
This theme and market focus plays to Pace’s
strengths in digital TV engineering and our ability to
launch new products ahead of the competition. 
We demonstrated our leadership in 2008 when we
delivered over 20 high definition PVR designs for
payTV operators around the world and were first 
to market with a revolutionary low-cost digital to
analogue converter for US cable. None of our compet-
itors could match these achievements. 
In April 2008 we acquired the set-top box business 
of Royal Philips Electronics and immediately renamed
the business Pace France. We rapidly integrated the
new business operations, teams and customers into
the Pace Group and we were very pleased to gene-
rate profits ahead of our original plan. This result
demonstrated the extent to which the Pace busi-
ness methodology is scalable and it showed the
effectiveness of our systems and processes, which
have successfully transformed both our core business
and Pace France. It is also thanks to the commitment
of our teams around the world to create the new Pace
business. Pace is now a global top three company 
in our sector and we have more payTV operator
customers and a wider product reach than any of our
major competitors. 
Trading performance
The Pace Group, including Pace France, continued to
win new customers and expand market share with
existing operators. This has enabled us to grow while
maintaining a balance of revenues from a wide range
of payTV operators across all geographic markets,
reducing risk and dependencies with the business.
In 2008 we achieved record revenues of £745.5m and
delivered a significant increase in our profit before 
tax, exceptional items and amortisation of other
intangibles at £28.5m. We have now delivered seven
periods of uninterrupted profit growth. In making this
happen we shipped a record number of set-top boxes,
13.1m, our highest ever annual total. That we were
able to double the size of our business, revenues and
shipments during 2008 has shown how we have
created a resilient business. Customers are at the
heart of our business and we have created a model
that enables us to respond with the flexibility and
speed they demand whilst being able to grow and
acquire with minimum disruption.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER’S REVIEW
Neil Gaydon PACE PLC
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 05
Our results are also an indicator of the import-
ance consumers place on high quality home
entertainment, particularly when they are facing
unprecedented economic times and are being forced
to make difficult decisions on discretionary spend. For
many, the most popular entertainment spend is TV as
few alternatives offer the same value for money. 
The resilience of our business is further exemplified
by the strength of our balance sheet. We have no debt,
we are running the business from our own cash and
will do so going forwards after closing the year with a
positive net cash balance of over £37m. We are also
seeing the benefits of the acquisition in terms of the
added scale and associated cost savings, which we
will continue to drive.
Despite this backdrop of increased interest in home
entertainment Pace is not completely immune to
wider economic developments and along side the rest
of the electronics industry, we have contended with
issues around foreign exchange since the majority of
our components are bought in US dollars, with many
finished products being sold in other currencies. Our
existing hedging policy protected us for most of 2008
and a new hedging programme will enable us to
manage volatility during 2009.
Going forwards we are introducing return on sales
(ROS) as a new performance indicator after
concentrating on gross margin for the last few years.
Now as our product mix changes, as we target high
and low-end opportunities and start to rollout
infrastructure products from our Networks group,
margin is no longer the best overall measure of
success. Refocusing our business around ROS is
helping establish a new mindset as we take Pace to
the next level. 
Market Insight
Our strategy recognises it is the payTV industry,
rather than the free to air market, that has
consistently driven the landmark changes in how we
watch TV: operators have the content, the protection,
distribution, customer relationships and the brand.
They understand how to deliver an entertainment
service to the consumer. PayTV was born during the
transition from four channels to multichannel TV and
operators were first to introduce programme guides,
interactive services, PVR and invest in the delivery of
high definition TV. Each new innovation, large or small
demands a new set-top box development, at a speed
and rate of change that cannot be delivered through
the TV. 
We have built our leadership position by having the
right products to fuel the digital TV revolution and are
now a global top three set-top box business. We are
primarily focused on payTV and by 2012 revenues in
this market are forecast to reach $182bn, in an overall
market for digital TV that will see annual set-top box
shipments reach 200 million units per year. 
Growth during this period will be characterised 
by waves of digital upgrades as more countries 
move to digital through payTV operator launches 
and government mandated analogue switch off
programmes. Pace will capitalise by working with
payTV operators and in targeted retail markets on
PVR and high definition products as well as digital
converter devices that accelerate digital transition
and free up operator bandwidth for expanding high
definition services. A great example of this is the
Digital-to-Analogue converter (DTA) that we launched
last year for Comcast in the US. Advancements in 
flat screen technology have created a significant
embedded base of homes that now require a set-top
box to access the majority of HD content. 
Each payTV product we create is unique, designed for
the specific requirements of an operator’s services
and network. It takes between 12 and 18 months from
project initiation to product delivery and most designs
are updated within 18 months to incorporate new
features, technology upgrades and cost-down design
improvements. In addition we play an important role
managing our set-top boxes post-deployment, for
example making ‘over the air’ software upgrades, due
to our ownership of the product’s source code.
Consequently our customer relationships are typically
close and long-term. 
These opportunities, within the context of a conser-
vative and measured view of the market and the
economy, do, when combined with our marketposi-
tion and diversified blue-chip customer base, give
management increasing confidence in the medium to
long-term potential for the business to outperform. 
Environmental leadership
In 2008 we established our goal to be the world leader
in low environmental impact set-top boxes and set a
standard for our industry. 
Product development is where we have the greatest
impact on the environment. The growing demand for
our products, which increasingly include more
advanced and power hungry applications, has made
this an essential part of our strategy. We are targeting
three key areas where set-top box products have the
highest impact: power consumption, packaging and
hazardous substances. We are addressing all three in
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S REVIEW
CONTINUED PACE PLC 
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 06
our ‘Design for Environment’ criteria, now being used
on all new product developments. We are working
with our partners and customers to minimise energy
demands through innovative product design so
together we can significantly reduce the amount of
power consumed worldwide.
Digital convergence
Five years ago the technology debate in the industry
was centred on the “fight for the living room”. The set-
top box won against competition from the TV, games
consoles and the PC. Today the battle is for control of
the in-home entertainment network, and the set-top
box is ideally positioned to win this battle as it 
won the last. 
Therefore our second strategy theme is to put Pace
at the heart of convergence in the digital home,
enabling our customers to deliver whole home
networking strategies. In the triple-play convergence
model it is relatively easy to move data and voice
around the home, but very few companies have the
technological capability to add networked encrypted
TV to create a whole home solution. We are working
on wired and wireless solutions that will combine the
best of PVR and high definition and enable consumers
to watch their favourite content, wherever they are in
the home. Our technology teams are at the forefront
of this work and will continue to create opportunities
for Pace.
As with any other innovation in this market digital
convergence will be led by the payTV operator and 
its delivery into the home will evolve through the 
set-top box. Not all homes will demand this level 
of sophistication, but the market will create new
opportunities for Pace, alongside the mass market for
PVR and high definition products and the inevitable
introduction of 3-D payTV.
In the immediate short-term we are working with
customers on what have been termed ‘hybrid’ boxes
to combine the benefits of delivery technology such
as satellite with broadband IP. There has been much
discussion on how broadband will overtake broadcast,
but the economics for broadband mass market TV 
is still some way away. Hybrid products combine the
worlds of broadcast and broadband, delivering an
even richer service to consumers. Last year we 
were delighted to work with Canal+ on Le Cube,
Europe’s first Satellite/IP hybrid set-top box to use
the ethernet port for VOD services. 
Pace’s MultiDweller™, which opens up a new market
for Pace in the infrastructure sector for higher 
value, higher margin equipment, is now moving into
commercial deployment with its first operator
customer. The product makes it possible for payTV
and other entertainment operators to sell their
convergent triple play services in places such as
apartment blocks and hotels that are today diffi-
cult and expensive to access. In Europe alone, over 
50% of households are in multi-dwelling units. 
Pace engineers have been working on MultiDweller™
for over three years and this product includes our 
own silicon design. To date we have taken a cautious
approach to the potential impact this new line of
business may have, but as commercial deployments
are closer our confidence in the product and its
market is growing. 
As CEO of Pace I have had the pleasure of working in
this amazing industry for over 15 years and have
heard commentators and potential technology
competitors predict the demise of the set-top box.
Common theories have been that the set-top box will
be built into the TV or that disruptive technologies
such as broadband will make the set-top box
redundant. This hasn’t happened, and won’t happen,
because the set-top box is the most effective platform
for innovation, making it possible for consumers to
benefit from developments in technology via an
accessible and easy to use device. For the operator a
box is the most convenient, fast and flexible plat-
form for the provision of a payTV service. Finally and
most importantly the set-top box contains the security
to protect operator content in the home, its most
valuable asset. 
Outlook
As we enter 2009, Pace is in a strong position to
capture new opportunities in the global shift to digital
TV. We have seen little impact on demand for our
products but we do continue to take a prudent and
cautious view of the market, in particular, monitoring
trends for any impact of the global economic climate.
However, due to new business wins, customary 
good order visibility, foreign exchange management
and global operational synergies, we are now able 
to significantly raise expectations for Pace’s 2009
performance and pay a dividend.
Neil Gaydon
Chief Executive Officer
3 March 2009
