 07    PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S REVIEW continued
A sustainable future
The Group is at the heart of the 
biggest changes taking place in TV 
from high deﬁnition to converged 
home entertainment communications; 
whole home networking to 
MultiDweller and 3D. Our success 
and that of our payTV customers, 
despite the macro economic climate, 
has demonstrated the value many 
consumers place on high quality 
home entertainment. 
Pace has strong relationships with 
all the leading technology partners 
in the digital ecosystem. Our people 
and products are empowering pay TV 
operators, enabling them to deliver 
services over all digital platforms, 
while at the same time allowing them 
to protect premium content. 
Today, that premium content is 
high deﬁnition and will soon include 
increasingly bandwidth hungry 
technologies such as 3D, ultra high 
deﬁnition and whole home services. 
With Pace’s technology, the payTV 
operator has the network capability, 
service proposition and business 
model to deliver these new services 
and ﬁnance the high quality content 
that makes TV such an engaging 
experience. This is particularly true 
of event TV, from shows such as 
X-Factor and American Idol to major 
sporting events such as The Super 
Bowl, the football World Cup and 
the Champions League. This content 
commands massive audiences – 
almost half of US homes tune into the 
Super Bowl ﬁnal – demanding and 
generating billions of dollars on which 
many media and sports industries 
depend. 
Pay television operators are moving 
quickly to take advantage of hybrid 
technology. Already many of our 
customers are moving towards hybrid 
platforms that combine broadcast and 
broadband delivery. We have led the 
market in this ﬁeld with products such 
as Le Cube for France’s Canal+ and 
Vision+ for BT Vision in the UK. 
Hybrid set-top boxes are powerful 
devices that pay TV operators are 
currently using to add huge libraries 
of on-demand and catch-up TV for 
their customers. These boxes can 
be easily evolved to provide access 
to the open internet for OTT services 
as well as interactive applications such 
as ‘widgets’. And the set-top box, 
unlike most other consumer electronic 
devices, can be upgraded as they 
operate on a managed payTV network; 
ensuring end-users are easily kept 
abreast of the rapidly changing content 
environment. It is a proposition that 
becomes even more important as the 
core set-top box becomes increasingly 
complex due to the convergence of 
home entertainment. 
Driving technology evolution
PayTV operators have successfully used 
advances in broadcast and broadband 
technologies to deliver compelling 
services that engage consumers and 
deliver income growth for the industry. 
The majority of consumers want 
products that are coupled to services. 
This removes the customer care 
headaches of billing, technical support 
and uncertainty around whether the 
technology in which they have invested 
will soon become obsolete. 
As a result the quality, demand for and 
spend on digital home entertainment 
is growing and Pace continues to 
be at the forefront of this technology 
evolution. Our strategy to be at 
the heart of home entertainment 
convergence for the payTV industry will 
enable us to work with our customers 
on what we believe will be the next 
evolutionary shift in our industry.
Moreover, we are already seeing the 
shift occur and Pace has already 
demonstrated early leadership in 
product development. Consumers used 
to HD and PVR and now hybrid set-top 
boxes, will then want smart connected 
devices that give them the ﬂexibility to 
manage and view both professional as 
well as personal content anywhere in 
their home. 
Our strategy to be at the heart of home 
entertainment convergence for the payTV 
industry will enable us to work with our 
customers on what we believe will be the 
next evolutionary shift in our industry.
PAGE CHANGED PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT    08
In October of last year, Pace 
released its ﬁrst whole home product 
(HCS) in the US. It was released 
to industry acclaim and there has 
been signiﬁcant customer interest. 
Our expertise in home content 
sharing products has also put us 
in a fantastic position to capitalise 
on the convergence market, going 
beyond TV content to the heart 
of entertainment in the home. We 
are convinced that set-top boxes, 
particularly hybrid PVRs, will establish 
a TV-driven home network; it is a 
cost-effective, secure and ﬂexible 
device.
Our market is constantly changing 
and 3D now offers opportunities. In 
the short-term, consumers investing 
in 3D TVs can get a taste of 3D 
with some of our existing boxes. 
But this medium is for the longer 
term, as consumers start seeing 
more of its amazing capabilities 
and full 3D becomes a requirement 
for payTV. This will demand further 
developments in set-top box 
technology. 
By 2013 there will be an installed 
base of 35m 3D capable TV 
screens and we envisage that 
we will be supplying operators 
with 3D enabled products sooner 
rather than later. Many of our latest 
platforms are already ‘3D-ready’ 
and ultra HD, which delivers 16x 
the picture quality of HD, is around 
the corner. These developments 
also reinforce broadcast technology 
as the predominant transmission 
medium for the coming years, given 
the massive bandwidth required to 
deliver 3D over the internet.
Our ability to develop new markets 
has been demonstrated in our 
MultiDweller system. The range of 
MultiDweller products is opening 
up the market for advanced digital 
services by enabling payTV and 
other operators to reach inaccessible 
subscribers, including places such 
as apartment blocks, hotels and 
conurbations that previously have not 
been attached to cable networks. As 
planned, 2009 saw initial commercial 
deployment of the division’s ﬂagship 
product and the announcement 
of the ﬁrst two customers, Canal 
Digital and Quadriga. In 2010 we 
will be adding new customers and 
galvanising distribution routes.
In summary
We are already working with our 
customers and partners on the ‘next-
generation’ of set-top boxes and new 
technologies. These will continue 
to push the boundaries, featuring 
advancements in whole home PVR, 
support for more applications, OTT 
services and widgets, better energy 
efﬁciency and of course 3D. We are 
at the leading edge of technological 
change and have a clear strategy 
to be at the heart of convergence 
for digital TV that we continue to 
successfully execute against. This 
capitalises on our many relationships 
with customers, partners and 
suppliers as well as our technical 
excellence and ﬁnancial resources. 
We now have the ability and capability 
to take advantage of the right market 
opportunities to further develop our 
business. 
Having delivered an outstanding 
performance in 2009, Pace has 
entered 2010 in a strong operating 
and ﬁnancial position; the pay TV 
market continues to be positive and 
there is good demand for the Group’s 
products. Against this backdrop we 
expect a combination of solid volume 
growth and a modestly lower ASP 
resulting from product mix to lead to 
mid single digit revenue growth for the 
year. Gross margins are expected to 
increase, with a focus on operating 
cost and efﬁciency generating 
further improvements in operating 
margin. We will also continue tight 
management of our supply chain 
as we manage a sector-wide risk of 
component shortages. 
The Group looks forward to another 
successful year building on our 
position as a leading global player in 
the digital payTV market.
Neil Gaydon 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
2 March 2010 09    PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT
Our record growth is underpinned by robust 
ﬁnancial management, a strong balance sheet 
and operational excellence.
OFFICER’S REVIEW
CHIEF FINANCIAL
From an operational view point we 
have actively managed this growth; 
our efﬁcient operating structure 
allowed us to achieve maximum 
growth without a proportionate 
increase in overheads. Subsequent 
to the acquisition we developed 
scalable systems and improved key 
performance indicators. These provide 
high quality and best practice ﬁnancial 
information to our business units, 
which enable early issue identiﬁcation 
and rapid decision making. At the 
same time, to support our overall 
business transformation, we have 
established an internal audit function, 
assisted by external professional 
advisors and enhanced our tax, 
treasury and cash management 
capabilities. 
Pace has good customer order 
visibility and the team worked well in 
The Pace business grew dramatically in 2009 as we beneﬁtted 
from our market leading position, particularly in the delivery of high 
deﬁnition products, increased global scale and earlier than expected 
beneﬁts of business synergy programmes put in place following the 
Philips’ set-top box acquisition in 2008. Pace France is now a fully 
operational and proﬁtable part of the Group. 
2009 to anticipate, manage and plan 
for any problems within the supply 
chain, using a range of operational 
tools available to the business. This 
will stand us in good stead during 
2010 as we take into account the 
sector-wide risk of component 
shortages. 
Trading and results
We achieved record growth in 
revenues and shipments of £1.1bn 
and 17.2m set-top boxes respectively. 
We signiﬁcantly increased proﬁt 
before tax, exceptional items and 
amortisation of other intangibles to 
£76.5m (2008: £28.5m). Proﬁt before 
tax was £69.9m (2008: £13.8m). 
Amortisation of other intangibles 
was £6.7m (2008: £3.7m) and basic 
earnings per share were 17.7p (2008: 
4.0p), with adjusted earnings per 
share of 19.3p (2008: 7.8p). PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT    10
We continued to win new customers 
and expand market share with many 
of our existing customers, enabling 
us to maintain a balance of revenues. 
We delivered 6.2m set-top boxes into 
Europe (2008: 4.7m), 9.7m into the 
Americas (2008: 7.3m) and 1.3m into 
the Rest of the World (2008: 1.1m). 
The Group adopted IFRS 8 
“Operating Segments” from 1 January 
2009. IFRS 8 requires operating 
segments to be identiﬁed on the basis 
of discrete ﬁnancial information about 
components of the Group. These 
segments are regularly reviewed 
by the Pace Board, as the Group’s 
Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(CODM), to allocate resources and 
assess performance. IFRS 8 has 
been applied to aggregate operating 
segments on the grounds of similar 
economic characteristics and the 
Group has determined that it has one 
reportable segment. This position will 
be monitored as the Group develops.
Gross margin was 17.6% for the 
year, versus 18.1% in 2008. There 
was a negative 0.5% impact on 
gross margin due to the one-off 
foreign exchange cost as a result 
of our foreign exchange strategy, 
announced in November 2008 that 
provided certainty to manage the 
business through 2009. Gross margin 
progressively improved from H1 to H2 
(17.2% to 17.9%) as the beneﬁt of the 
Group’s larger buying power started 
to take effect. Average selling prices, 
which are a feature of product mix, 
increased during the year from £57 to 
£66 with a H1 to H2 progression of 
£62 to £70. This development reﬂects 
the growing number of HD boxes in 
the second half after high volume DTA 
shipments in the ﬁrst half.
Last year we introduced return 
on sales (operating margin) on a 
product-by-product basis as a new 
performance measure – this reﬂects 
the beneﬁt of volume shipments and 
pricing on absolute proﬁtability, rather 
than just gross margin, which is not 
always directly linked with proﬁt. 
The ROS benchmark in place for 
each product has ensured that the 
full impact of all activities on overall 
proﬁtability is considered. In 2009 our 
overall ROS was 6.7% (2008: 3.9%) 
due to the growing global demand 
for our products and technologies, 
coupled with our scale and strong 
operating performance. The Group is 
on track to achieve our 8% medium 
term target.
The net interest credit was £0.2m 
(2008: net interest charge £0.7m) 
reﬂecting the positive cash balances 
held throughout the period. A tax 
charge of £18.5m (2008: £2.8m) 
relates to UK tax of £3.8m, as 
remaining tax losses were used, 
overseas tax charges of £13.7m 
and a deferred tax charge of £1.0m. 
Retained proﬁt for the period was 
£51.4m (2008: £11.1m) an increase  
of 365% on 2008.
Foreign Exchange
By currency our revenues are split 
61% in US$, 32% in Euros, with 
other currencies accounting for 7%. 
Electronics component purchasing is 
typically US$ denominated, which is 
reﬂected in the majority of the Group’s 
costs. Using the balance within this 
currency proﬁle, supplemented by 
an effective hedging strategy and 
treasury policy, we have been able 
to minimise the impact of foreign 
currency ﬂuctuations on proﬁt  
before tax.
Overheads 
Overheads, excluding the impact 
of IAS 38 and amortisation of other 
intangibles were £126.5m (2008: 
£105.1m, excluding exceptionals), 
incorporated a full year of the 
overhead base from Pace France. 
R&D spend before capitalisation of 
development expenditure in line with 
IAS was £71.7m (2008: £59.6m) 
as we continued to invest in higher 
speciﬁcation products such as HD 
PVR and new technologies. An 
amortisation credit in relation to 
capitalised development expenditure 
of £2.8m (2008: charge £0.9m) is 
reﬂected in the income statement.
Balance sheet 
There was a net inﬂow of cash into 
the business, further strengthening 
our cash position and we ﬁnished 
the period with a net cash position 
of £73.5m (2008: £37.7m). As a 
result we have been able to continue 
managing the business from our own 
cash and are in a strong position to 
consider potential acquisitions to 
broaden our capability in digital TV 
technologies. We continue to have a 
standby £35m revolving credit facility 
with the Royal Bank of Scotland. 
The balance sheet also reﬂects our 
signiﬁcant business growth, with net 
assets increasing 36% to £196.3m 
(31 December 2008: 143.9m) and net 
working capital increasing to £36.2m 
(31 December 2008: £9.5m). Capital 
expenditure increased to £12.9m 
(31 December 2008: £6.6m)  as 
we invested in improving our head 
ofﬁce facilities, established new 
manufacturing lines to support new 
customer wins and installed industry 
leading reliability laboratories. Our 
investment in reliability is a strong 
point of competitive differentiation and 
over the medium term will support a 
reduction in the overall cost of life of 
our products in the ﬁeld. 
Dividend 
Due to the positive net cash and 
strong business performance, the 
Board has recommended a ﬁnal 
dividend of 1.0p per share, giving a 
full year dividend of 1.5p per share. 
A progressive dividend policy was 
introduced in 2009 with the intention 
of paying in the region of a one third, 
two thirds split between interim and 
ﬁnal dividends.
Basis of preparation
The principal risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group, including those 
referred to in note 1 to these ﬁnancial 
statements, have not changed from 
those set out in the 2008 Annual 
Report and Accounts, except for 
inclusion of the impact of new 
accounting standards applicable  
in the period.
Outlook
Pace is operating in a growing 
marketplace with excellent product 
and technology capabilities. Our 
customer base leads the payTV 
industry ensuring that Pace is at the 
forefront of developments. We have 
established strong fundamentals 
in the ﬁnancial management of the 
Group and are well positioned to take 
advantage of ongoing future growth. 
Stuart Hall 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
2 March 2010
