 Chief executive’s review
The last 12 months have been a year of active transition for Pace.  
Following a series of new customer announcements in Europe and Australia made in the previous year, our company has
continued to grow. We have significantly reinforced our position in the market with a succession of further business wins.
Crucially, we have made important inroads into the US market, the world’s largest market for digital payTV technology, by
winning new business with Comcast Communications.  
We continue to work with the world’s most successful and innovative payTV operators, ranging from BSkyB in the UK to
customers in the US and Foxtel in Australia. To ensure we are in the best possible shape to capitalise on the opportunity
these substantial customers present, we have also taken on new organisational challenges to make our business more
efficient and responsive. 
Markets
The global market for digital set-top box products continues to grow.  During 2004 over 45 million digital set-top boxes were
shipped worldwide, with the market predicted to grow by a further 29% to over 58 million set-top box shipments during
2005 and to 132 million by 2010
1
. Within this market Pace has been assessed as the world’s fifth largest supplier
2
– our
ongoing aim is to be one of the top three.  
Our focus though is not just on the total number of set-top boxes we ship, but also the type of products we create and the
companies we deliver them to.  In the last year our attention has once again totally returned to the payTV market, moving
away from less profitable ‘free-to-air’ markets. 
Set-top box demand from the payTV sector has also been typified by a growing demand for more ‘added value’ products
such as personal video recorder (PVR) products and a significant increase of interest in high definition (HD) technology
outside of the US.  Not only are these more profitable products for Pace to develop, capitalising on our engineering
capabilities, they are more attractive to payTV operators as they help retain customers and increase average revenue per
user (ARPU).  
07
Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2005
We have made important inroads 
into the US market, the world’s
largest market for digital payTV
technology, by winning new
business with Comcast.
John Dyson
Chief Executive
1
Source: Strategy Analytics, Digital TV Devices Forecast, April 2005.
2
Source: Strategy Analytics, November 2004.
R&A Section 1  25/7/05  8:31 am  Page 6 08
Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2005
En-route to being 
the best set-top 
box supplier in 
the world.
R&A Section 1  25/7/05  8:31 am  Page 7 09
Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2005
EMEA
Our European focus last year was primarily on the continent, as the major operators continued their transitions to digital,
catching up with developments in the UK led by BSkyB. BSkyB has set the standard in Europe since it launched digital in
1998 and remains an important Pace customer for standard digital set-top boxes and the Sky+ PVR, for which it now has
770,000 subscribers
3
. We have also continued to work with both of our UK-based cable operators Ntl and Telewest. 
In addition, we won new business with Ntl Ireland and SSVC, a registered charity that provides radio and television services
to British armed forces around the world. British troops are now using Pace set-top boxes to watch TV in military bases and
HM ships in diverse locations, from the Falkland Islands to Norway, from Belize to the Gulf and Afghanistan.
Relationships with all of our customers in continental Europe deepened. Importantly, we made some significant steps
forward with Premiere, Germany’s largest digital TV operator.  We began to ship an entry-level satellite set-top box for this
operator in May 2004. Since then we have gone on to supply a cable set-top box, which was the first to achieve network
certification from both Premiere and our second German customer KDG, the country’s largest cable operator.  We also made
two important new product announcements with Premiere: the first was for a satellite PVR for shipment in Summer 2005;
with the second for a high definition set-top box, which will be used to deliver Europe’s first MPEG-4 high definition payTV
service from November this year. 
Elsewhere in Europe, we continued our successful relationships with Sky Italia in Italy and Viasat in Scandinavia.  Sky Italia
was one of our most important customers during the first half of the year as it continued to work through its major launch
phase, which involved replacing set-top boxes for a large number of existing subscribers. As with all payTV operators, its
rate of growth fell back after the launch phase to a more ‘normal’ level of rollout. 
We are keeping a close watch on other large operators in continental Europe and the Middle East and believe we are in a
strong position to win more business in this region as more markets move to digital over the next two to three years. 
Relationships with all of our
customers in continental Europe
deepened. Importantly, we made
some significant steps forward
with Premiere, Germany’s largest
digital TV operator.
3
BSkyB results to 31st March 2005
R&A Section 1  25/7/05  8:31 am  Page 8 North America
We have turned a very significant corner in the US following our contract announcement with Comcast at the end of May.
Over the last five years we have invested approximately £35 million in our US operations, confident that, as this is the world’s
largest payTV market, we would be able to recoup our investment over the longer-term. This is what is now beginning to
happen. The Comcast contract is significant for Pace on a number of fronts. Importantly it includes a major commitment to
purchase Pace set-top boxes, which is worth between $375 million and $550 million to us over the next three years.  
Comcast will also licence our EngineWare
TM
software for the North American market, via a one-off payment that has now
been made. Engineware was a fundamental development to Pace’s US cable set-top box strategy and leverages our
substantial experience of the wide variety of technologies used in set-top box deployments to create new middleware
performing core set-top box processing functions. For Comcast, EngineWare is useful on a number of fronts and will
support their implementation of the emerging US middleware standard OCAP
4
. Our investment in one common software
architecture will enable Pace engineers to provide solutions rapidly across a wide range of emerging and current hardware
architectures, from simple zappers to high-end PVRs.
Finally, as part of the agreement, Pace and Comcast will jointly fund future technology development to be carried out by a
dedicated Pace development team. This element of the agreement is very exciting for Pace as it places us at the centre of
the world’s largest payTV operator and offers us an opportunity to be at the forefront of their development activities.  
The first box that we will deliver as part of the Comcast agreement is the high definition TDC775 otherwise known as Tahoe.
This highly sophisticated box is part of our growing range of new products for this market, which includes a new ‘all digital’
platform that has been designed to support US cable operators as they push for all digital networks. The range now
includes, through the product development work we have done for Comcast, set-top boxes that can operate on Motorola
networks, which has expanded our US market reach.
It is difficult for any non-US company to break into the US, particularly, when as in our sector, there are some very powerful
and well-established local suppliers. During our time in the US we have seen other non-US set-top box companies come
and go. Breaking into the US takes time, skill, persistence and a long-term vision. We’ve always believed that Pace’s
experience of markets outside of the US would bring a new and fresh perspective to the US market, which we have been
able to demonstrate over the last few years and have taken to a new level with our Comcast announcement.  
We should not let our Comcast agreement overshadow our other successes in North America. We continue to work with
Time Warner and Bright House, shipping our well-established DC551 high definition set-top box, which has been our main
US box for the last two years. We have added to the DC551HD customer list with Videotron, who will be using this and our
standard definition DC511 for its illico Digital TV service in Canada. Additionally in Canada we won new business with
Sasktel, a company we have worked with on an exclusive basis since 2002.  Sasktel is now using Pace’s DB240 IP set-top
box as they grow their TV over DSL service, which is the largest of its kind in North America. 
10
Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2005
4
Open Cable Applications Platform, a middleware software  
layer specification, designed by Cablelabs in the US.
R&A Section 1  25/7/05  8:31 am  Page 9 Asia Pacific
Asia Pacific is an opportunity market. We already have some important customers in this region through our long-term
relationship with Sky New Zealand with which we have now signed a new agreement to supply set-top boxes for New
Zealand’s first PVR service. More recently we have worked with Foxtel, which used Pace set-top boxes to launch its new
digital service in Australia. 
Foxtel is Australia’s leading subscription television provider and recently celebrated its one-millionth-service subscriber. We
began deliveries of our first Foxtel set-top boxes in May 2004 and provide products for its satellite and cable networks. This
relationship was strengthened during the year with the launch of the Foxtel iQ PVR in March. Pace was sole supplier for this
important launch and not only is Foxtel iQ the first PVR to reach the Australian market, the cable variant is the world’s first
cable-based DVB PVR. Foxtel and Sky New Zealand are more great examples of how Pace can work with an important
digital television operator, moving from service launch through to next generation technologies, supporting a customer’s
delivery and growth strategies.  
We are also now seeing some limited traction in other Far Eastern markets following an intensive 18 months during which
we have invested considerable energies in developing relationships and business models for the region.  For example, a
new product range that meets the pricing and service needs of Asian operators has been launched and we have developed
a licensing approach to support sales into China. As a result we have been able to announce our first new Asian customer
– Galaxy in Hong Kong – who will use our Asian cable platform.
Pace engineering and technologies
In my report on our successes across Pace’s global markets, one theme is clear, the importance of the Pace engineering
team and their technological leadership. 
Pace’s strength lies in our ability to develop new technologies for the payTV industry and it is important that our in-house
engineering teams are totally focussed on what happens next. Not only is this ultimately what our customers want – a
visionary partner that supports them in achieving their goals – it also creates a more profitable company for our shareholders.
Over the years Pace has proven the value of being first to market with new technologies and in today’s increasingly
competitive market it is vital we take ‘first mover advantage’. 
11
Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2005
In my report on our successes across
Pace’s global markets, one theme is
clear, the importance of the Pace
engineering team and their
technological leadership.
R&A Section 1  25/7/05  8:31 am  Page 10 12
Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2005
R&A Section 1  25/7/05  8:31 am  Page 11 Last year the work of our engineers and technologists has crystallised on two fronts. The first relates to how we deliver
current and immediate next generation products to our customers by making them as cost-effective as possible so that we
retain and grow their business. Pace has always been good at re-engineering existing products to reduce the component
count and make them easier to manufacture.  
However, this is no longer enough if we are to continue as a frontrunner in the competitive marketplace and on the second
front we began to reassess our own business model to improve development processes and increase our use of outsource
partners. This approach is starting to free up more of our in-house engineering expertise to concentrate on what really sets
us apart from the competition: the development of higher value, higher specification products and technologies that excite
the market, help retain existing customers and win new business. For example, we have been able to build our position in
high definition, developing a high definition PVR for Comcast and Europe’s first MPEG-4 high definition set-top box for
Premiere.  
With high definition now gaining ground and PVR becoming an essential part of many operators’ business strategies, it is
vitally important we anticipate the next set of industry trends, which we believe will be all about extending the ‘delivery pipe’
for payTV services. To this end we are growing our technology team, which is concentrating its energies around four key
themes: core set-top box technology, home networking, bandwidth efficient channel access and mobile devices. 
Many of the concepts we are now working on have been around for some time. Today a confluence of component pricing,
more effective technologies and standards alongside a growing consumer awareness and demand for new digital TV
services means that the work we are now doing will put Pace in a strong position for the next stage of market evolution. At
the same time we recognise the importance of looking for new technology opportunities outside of the immediate payTV
market. Pace is highly skilled in the fundamental technologies that will drive the intelligent home of the future and we are
actively seeking out new market opportunities for the Group that will include the opportunity to gain recurring revenues.
Intellectual property
Intellectual property (IP) is important to Pace on a number of fronts and in the last year we have revitalised our IP programme.
On the business front we are able to use it as a form of currency in business negotiations, for example as a defensive
measure when challenged by other IP owners in the course of our day-to-day business. Effective use of Pace IP in this type
of royalty negotiation can help make us more competitive and cost-effective and is an important strand of our wider business
improvement activity.
An active IP recognition scheme also creates an environment that encourages innovation and provides an opportunity for
staff to register their ideas and be rewarded. We relaunched our in-house IP award, programme this year as the David Hood
Innovation Awards, to recognise David’s significant contribution to the Company and raise the programme’s profile.  
Today our IP portfolio is small but growing, with 48 patents granted and over 160 applications pending. Our patents are
mostly digital set-top box technology specific, which will add future value to Pace as our portfolio continues to grow.
13
Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2005
R&A Section 1  25/7/05  8:31 am  Page 12 14
Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2005
Today a confluence of component pricing, more
effective technologies and standards alongside a
growing consumer awareness and demand for
new digital TV services means that the work we
are now doing will put Pace in a strong position
for the next stage of market evolution.
R&A Section 1  25/7/05  8:31 am  Page 13 15
Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2005
R&A Section 1  25/7/05  8:31 am  Page 14 People
As we move ahead with the changes I have outlined to our business, the investment we make in our people becomes even
more important. The skills of the Pace team are recognised worldwide from the way we build customer relationships, to our
technical expertise and post-delivery support.  
To develop our people so that they can participate in our current business transformation we have continued to invest in
training and several major programmes took place during the year. The Developing Leadership Focus programme was
aimed at managers throughout the organisation to help them understand the strategic context for our change programme
and their role within it. To support more specific skills development we have developed sales and product management
training programmes and a series of technical training programmes for our engineers. In addition we supported
communications skills with cross-cultural training for those working directly with our new Asian partners and team meeting
training for managers. 
We ended the year with just over 600 employees, slightly up on last year, with most of our additional new recruits being
engineers with specialist skills for the development of our next generation products. 
Our next steps
Pace has made some very important steps forward in the last year. We made a very clear and dramatic mark on the US
market with our Comcast announcement and grew our business elsewhere in the world by developing existing customer
relationships and winning new business. At the same time we have reasserted our technology leadership with new products
and concepts from HD PVR to multiroom and mobile payTV.
Looking ahead into the next year we need to focus on the delivery of our new contracts and improve our cost performance.
Through the work we are now doing on improving our business structure and processes, Pace can look ahead to the future
with more assurance than has been possible in the last few years.
John Dyson
Chief Executive
12 July 2005
16
Pace Micro Technology plc Report & Accounts 2005
Pace has made some very
important steps forward in the
last year. Pace can look ahead to
the future with more assurance
than has been possible in the 
last few years.
R&A Section 1  25/7/05  8:31 am  Page 15
