 PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT    04
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
This success reﬂects the capability and commitment of the 
entire Pace team and highlights the strong fundamentals 
it has built.  Over the last three years Pace has brought 
about transformational change, delivering both organic and 
non-organic growth.  The Group has built up a high quality 
and diverse set of customers and products. We operate 
successfully across most major geographic markets. This 
has translated into consistent proﬁtability.
Pace has proven itself capable of identifying, investing 
in and delivering the new technologies needed by its 
operator customers to enable the delivery of TV-led home 
entertainment.  The technologies within our industry are 
evolving at an increasingly rapid rate, creating new product 
and customer opportunities for the business.  Today this 
revolves around high deﬁnition, personal video recording, 
hybrid and whole home platforms and already, for some, this 
will soon start to include new 3D services.  
We are able to maintain ongoing investment in new 
technology because of the work done to strengthen our 
ﬁnancial position. This means that Pace is at the forefront 
of change within the industry, leading in converged home 
entertainment solutions and diversiﬁcation opportunities 
through our growing Networks division. At the same time 
we have optimised efﬁciency and taken advantage of our 
enlarged scale to ensure we fully deliver on our Vision of 
‘Great products to our customers, every time’.  In doing 
this Pace has achieved a level of maturity in its operations 
that should give you conﬁdence in predictable future 
performance. 
In recognition of our growth and long-term earnings 
potential, the Board introduced a progressive dividend policy 
in 2009.  I am pleased that your Board is recommending a 
ﬁnal dividend of 1.0p per share, giving a full year dividend of 
1.5p per share. 
Our achievements were recognised through a number 
of awards, including a Queen’s Award for Enterprise 
in Innovation and a number of awards recognising the 
importance of Pace’s HR strategy in driving change and 
creating a great place to work. From a ﬁnancial markets 
perspective, we have become a member of the FTSE 250 
and are a top ﬁve quoted company in the UK technology 
hardware sector by market capitalisation. 
Following major improvements in ﬁnancial performance over 
the past three years, on behalf of the Board, I commend 
the management team and all our employees worldwide for 
their achievements and re-emphasize our conﬁdence in their 
ability to take the Group forward as we enter a comparatively 
more mature and predictable phase of our development
If you have any comments on my letter or indeed, any  
part of the Annual Report, I would be delighted to hear  
from you either by writing to me at Pace or by email at  
mike.mctighe@pace.com.
Yours sincerely 
Mike McTighe 
Chairman
2 March 2010
Dear Shareholder – In 2009 your company 
‘came of age’, capitalising on the potential 
created by your management team and the 
global market opportunity for Pace’s digital  
TV technology.
Pace’s performance over the last 12 months represents 
a signiﬁcant achievement, where the management team 
delivered record results ahead of all expectations.  Pace 
is now working at a new level having achieved over £1bn 
revenues and 6.7% return on sales. 05    PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT
OFFICER’S REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
2009 was a record year for Pace when we consolidated 
our global position and became a top two industry leader. 
Through rigorous execution against our strategy, derived 
from our strong company culture, we quadrupled proﬁts, 
grew revenues by 52% to £1.1bn and increased cash 
95% to over £73m. We improved our return on  
sales to 6.7%, so driving towards our  
8% medium term goal. 
Our ability to innovate, together 
with an outstanding performance 
from our operations team, enabled 
us to ship an impressive 17.2m 
products to a global customer base 
of over 100 payTV operators. We 
established ourselves as a major 
player in the Americas growing our 
overall North American business 
and making a strong entry into 
South America. We became 
Europe’s number one set-top 
box supplier and a leader in high 
deﬁnition. We completed the 
integration of the Philips set-top 
box business acquired in spring 
2008, renamed Pace France, 
which is now a fully operational and 
proﬁtable part of the Group. 
Our strategic aim is to put Pace at the heart of convergence within 
the digital TV home. In addition to our high deﬁnition (HD) and PVR 
leadership, we established Pace at the forefront of the new hybrid 
product category. In the Americas we commenced deliveries of our 
ﬁrst ‘whole home’ solution for cable operators. Whole home and hybrid, 
which combines broadcast and broadband content, are cornerstone 
technologies for the converged digital TV home. We will start to launch 
3D services with our customers during 2010; this is an exciting new TV 
viewing experience and we anticipate further product and technology 
developments so as to realise its full visual potential. 
2009 was not just about consolidating 
our leadership position; it was 
also about creating a platform for 
sustainable growth: we have been 
developing our organisation, systems 
and processes to further improve 
customer focus and enable faster 
product innovation, while being more 
efﬁcient. At the same time we have 
ﬁrmly established Pace India as a low-
cost centre of engineering excellence. 
It is now delivering complete product 
designs and new technologies to all 
parts of the Group.
We are experiencing the biggest 
change to TV since it was invented 
with HD, PVR, on demand  services, 
broadband, whole home TV and now 
