 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 04
Strategic Report
Chairman’s Letter
Following a turnaround 
year in 2012, 2013 has 
been a year of further 
recovery and expansion.
Dear Shareholder
Following a turnaround year in 2012, 
2013 has been a year of further recovery 
and expansion; the business has made 
good progress on its Strategic Plan, 
delivered very strong financial results, 
and through both organic developments 
and the acquisition of Aurora, has 
created a platform for further growth. 
Pace is making headway to becoming  
a “great technology company”.
2013 has been a year of tangible 
progress, with the Group achieving 
a 22.5% increase in adjusted EBITA 
through top-line growth, improved 
revenue mix, supply chain efficiency 
and increased operational efficiency. 
The Group delivered strong free cash flow 
of $209.0 million, a second consecutive 
year of over 100% cash generation. This 
sustainable strong free cash flow model 
gives the Company confidence and 
flexibility to identify and invest in both 
organic and acquisitive opportunities 
which will deliver long-term value to 
our customers and our shareholders.
Strategic review
Consistent with my statement last year, 
the Group remains focused on the 
evolution and execution of its Strategic 
Plan that we communicated to the 
market in November 2011:
 — transform core economics: improve 
our operating performance and 
leverage scale;
 — PayTV hardware leadership: build 
on our position as a world leading 
set-top box (STB), residential gateway 
and media server company; and
 — widen out in software, services 
and integrated solutions: accelerate 
“widening out” by pursuing opportunities 
to provide software and services assets 
for current and new customers.
Aurora acquisition
The acquisition of Aurora represents 
an important evolution in the Strategic 
Plan and enhances our strategy to grow 
a broader platform across Hardware, 
Software & Services. Aurora will allow Pace 
to expand beyond our existing business 
and build deeper and more embedded 
relationships with our customers by taking 
us beyond the home and into network 
infrastructure. Network operators have an 
ever-increasing need to cost-effectively 
deliver increased bandwidth to their 
customers and Aurora provides equipment 
that fulfils this need in an efficient way. 
The Company believes that Aurora will 
strengthen Pace’s position as a market-
leading solutions provider for the PayTV 
and broadband industries. I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank our 
shareholders for supporting this acquisition 
and believe it will deliver significant value 
to Pace and our customers in 2014 
and beyond.
Pace is now over two years into the 
Strategic Plan and although there is still 
a lot of work to be done and opportunity 
for improvement, we are well on track 
against the targets and objectives set at 
the time. The addition of Aurora further 
strengthens the Board’s confidence that 
we can achieve our mid-term target 
of 9% operating margin
7
 in 2015.
Dividends
The strong performance in 2013 and 
the trajectory of the business give the 
Board confidence to continue building on 
the progressive dividend policy that was 
introduced in 2009. Therefore the Board 
is recommending a final dividend of 
3.66 cents per share, giving a full year 
dividend of 5.49 cents per share, a 22% 
increase on 2012. The dividend reflects 
the robust ongoing cash generation 
of the business.
If you have any comments on my letter 
or any part of the Annual Report, I would 
be delighted to hear from you either by 
writing to me at Pace or by email at  
Allan.Leighton@pace.com.
Yours sincerely
Allan Leighton
Chairman
4 March 2014
Allan Leighton
Chairman
Board of Directors on page 24 and 25 
Corporate governance on page 26 to 28 
7 Operating margin is adjusted EBITA as a percentage of revenue.
_1_PIC_ar13_Front_[SM_MR].indd   4 20/03/2014   12:22:21
