 Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 06
Strategic report / Chairman’s statement
Dear Shareholder
2014 has been a year of execution and expansion; 
the business has made good progress on its 
Strategic Plan, delivered strong financial results, 
and through both organic developments and the 
acquisition and integration of Aurora Networks, 
has created a platform for further growth.
In the year, the Group achieved a 24.5% 
increase in adjusted EBITA due to top-line 
growth through the Aurora Networks acquisition, 
improved revenue mix, supply chain efficiency 
and increased operational efficiency. The Group 
delivered a third consecutive year of strong 
free cash flow, and has delivered nearly $600m 
cumulative free cash flow in that time. This 
sustainable strong free cash flow model gives 
the Company the confidence and flexibility to 
identify and invest in both organic and acquisitive 
opportunities which will deliver long-term value 
to our customers and our shareholders.
In November 2011, the Company laid out a 
clear Strategic Plan that aimed to develop a 
distinctive, scalable and profitable technology 
solutions provider to PayTV and broadband 
industries by growing a broader platform 
across hardware, software and services. In the 
last three years, we have continued to evolve 
and deliver against this plan.
The acquisition of Aurora Networks represented 
an important evolution in the Strategic Plan, 
enabling Pace to widen out into network 
infrastructure and build deeper, more embedded 
relationships with our customers. The now fully 
integrated Networks business unit has had a 
great first year and we are confident that it will 
make further progress in 2015 and beyond.
The target of the Strategic Plan was to achieve 
a 9% Operating Margin within a 4 to 5 year 
horizon. With a 9.2% Operating Margin in 
2014, I am delighted to announce that Pace 
has achieved this target a year ahead of plan. 
However, this is only the start of the journey 
and there is significant opportunity for further 
improvement in the business.
During this time the PayTV and Broadband 
markets have also evolved significantly; our 
customers continue to respond to both the 
demands of their consumers and the various 
disruptive threats by creating increasingly 
innovative and engaging new services, building 
better and faster networks whilst delivering an 
always-on, always-supported managed service. 
Pace has been, and will continue to be, strongly 
positioned to capitalise on these increased 
investments over the next 3 to 5 years.
By continuing to execute against our Strategic 
Plan and capitalising on the significant market 
opportunity, Pace will not only strengthen its 
position as a market-leading technology solutions 
provider for the PayTV and broadband industries, 
but also become a “great technology company”.
The strong performance in 2014 and the 
trajectory of the business give the Board 
confidence to continue building on the progressive 
dividend policy that was introduced in 2009. 
Therefore the Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 4.75 cents per share, giving a full 
year dividend of 7.00 cents per share, a 27.5% 
increase on 2013. The dividend reflects the 
robust ongoing cash generation of the business.
Board changes
Mike Inglis was reappointed as a Non-executive 
Director on 13 March 2014. Roddy Murray 
resigned from his role as Chief Financial Officer 
and Executive Director on 27 July 2014. 
Mark Shuttleworth was appointed as Chief 
Financial Officer and joined the Board 
on 12 January 2015.
If you have any comments on my letter or any 
part of the Annual Report, I would be delighted 
to hear from you either by writing to me at Pace 
or by email at Allan.Leighton@pace.com.
Yours sincerely
Allan Leighton
Chairman
3 March 2015
Summary
 R 2014 has been a year of execution and 
expansion; Pace has delivered strong 
financial results and created a platform 
for further growth.
 R The acquisition of Aurora Networks Inc 
represented an important evolution 
in the Strategic Plan.
 R Pace has been, and will continue to 
be, strongly positioned to capitalise 
on operators’ increased investments 
over the next 3 to 5 years.
 R Pace will not only strengthen its position 
as a market-leading technology solutions 
provider for the PayTV and broadband 
industries, but also become a “great 
technology company”.
Allan Leighton
Chairman
Good progress has been made in the last 3 years; 
however, this is only the start of the journey and 
there is significant opportunity for further 
improvement in the business
