 Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2013 16
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S REPORT
Ronald Holding (Chief Executive Officer)
“Pan African Resources exceeded most of its targets for 
the financial year ended 30 June 2013, delivering growth 
with pleasing operational and financial performances.  
Evander Mine’s acquisition and the commissioning of 
the new BTRP have positioned Pan African Resources to 
produce approximately 200,000 profitable ounces of gold 
a year. There is also further growth potential through 
the exploitation of other near term organic projects.  
The board of Pan African Resources has decided to 
recommend a dividend approximating ZAR0.1314 per share 
or ZAR240 million to shareholders, for approval at the 
annual general meeting.”
2013 highlights
Pan African has significantly increased headline earnings per 
share by 20.8% in ZAR terms to 30.07 cents  
(2012: 24.89 cents) and in GBP terms by 6.9% to 2.17 pence 
(2012: 2.03 pence). 
 We completed the acquisition of Evander Mines.
 We successfully poured our first gold bar at the 
Barberton Mines’ BTRP .
  Our strong Statement of Financial Position allows for 
sustained results and profitable growth.
  Our board has recommended a dividend in ZAR terms 
of approximately ZAR0.1314 per share to shareholders.
Evander now a part of the Group
The Group was transformed into a mid-tier gold producer 
when we acquired Evander Mines from Harmony Gold Mining 
Company Limited (Harmony), on 28 February 2013. Evander 
Mines will double our annual gold production profile to 
200,000 oz of gold. The mine is performing as anticipated and 
is currently meeting production targets. Evander contributed 
34,197 oz of gold for the last four months of our financial year. 
Since the signing of the Sale and Purchase agreement with 
Harmony, Evander’s incumbent management team together 
with our corporate office worked proactively and tirelessly 
to ensure a seamless and efficient handover of systems 
and processes. Evander’s integration into the Group will be 
finalised in 2014.
Evander Mines’ management is committed to our organic 
growth plans to exploit its mineral resources more efficiently. 
During the next year we will focus on managing infrastructure 
to minimise the risk of mining interruptions, contain costs and 
increase gold production through targeting low capital cost 
projects which have quick and sustainable returns.
The addition of Evander Mines contributed in the 
achievement of the following Group production statistics for 
the financial year:
Pan African Resources 
exceeded most of its 
targets for the financial 
year ended 30 June 2013, 
delivering growth with 
pleasing operational and 
financial performances. Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2013 17
COMPANY OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP STATEMENTS OUR BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2013 2012 Movement
Gold mining tonnes milled 512,869 308,095 66.5%
Gold head grade (g/t) 8.6 10.6 (18.9%)
Gold sold (oz) 130,493 94,449 38.2%
Sustained performance and growth 
at Barberton
Barberton Mines contributed substantially to the Group’s 
success in 2013. It remains one of the lowest cost-of-
production and highest grade mines in South Africa. 
The mine exceeded its production targets, producing 
96,296 oz of gold during the financial year (2012: 94,449 oz).  
The team commissioned the on-site BTRP on schedule and 
within budget, conducting the inaugural gold pour on 28 June 
2013.  The BTRP not only adds approximately 20,000 oz of 
gold to our annual production, it will also steadily eliminate 
many of the historic and environment-degrading tailings 
dumps scattered around the Barberton Mines mining area.
Phoenix Platinum –  
Not quite risen from the ashes
In brief, Phoenix Platinum had a mediocre performance and 
we did not achieve our target ounces. This was primarily due 
to International Ferro Metals PLC halting its underground 
chrome mining operation when it became uneconomical, 
moving their run of mine chrome source to a highly oxidised 
opencast section. Phoenix, which is designed to treat sulphide 
tailings, now has to cope with the resultant serious metallurgical 
challenges. We have instituted equipment and operational 
changes to process the deleterious feedstock with some 
success, resulting in improved production in recent months.
Phoenix Platinum processed more than 274,000 tons of 
chrome tailings, and produced 6,480 oz of PGM 6Es.
This operation’s supply chain was analysed and additional 
training given to improve efficiencies and reduce costs.  Building 
a dedicated tailings storage facility in the future will enable 
oxidised material to be entirely bypassed and ameliorate the 
feedstock issue. 
2013 2012
Production and sales 
of PGM 6E (oz) 6,480 3,474
Basket price received (ZAR/oz) 9,093 7,499
T otal cash costs (ZAR/oz) 7,550 7,847
T otal cash costs (ZAR/t) 178 170
EBITDA (ZAR millions) 2.2 81.9
The table below reflects key Statement of Comprehensive  
Income figures for the Group:
2013 2012 Movement
ZAR millions GBP millions ZAR millions GBP millions ZAR % GBP %
Revenue 1,848.1 133.5 1,240.3 101.1 49.0 32.0
EBITDA 735.2 53.1 552.5 45.0 33.1 18.0
Attributable Group profit 558.9 42.6 358.9 29.2 55.7 45.9
Solid Group financial performance
The continued contribution from Barberton Mines, with the 
acquisition of Evander Mines, has propelled the Group to new 
heights in terms of both its gold production and profitability. 
The earnings per share figures discussed in this report are 
the result of a variety of production, cost and revenue factors 
that underpin the financial year’s strong performance.
Gold revenue increased by 49.0% in ZAR terms but only 
32.0% in GBP terms, due to the weakening of the South African 
currency against all other major currencies, including the GBP 
and USD. During the financial year the Group realised an 
average gold price of ZAR440,424/kg (2012: ZAR422,215/kg)  
and an average price for PGM 6E of ZAR292,354/kg.
Evander Mines contributed 72.2% of the increase in revenue.
The Group’s EBITDA for the financial year increased by 33.1%, 
in ZAR terms mainly as a result of the inclusion of Evander 
Mines’ mining profit of ZAR134.3 million. 
Pan African increased earnings per share (EPS) in both cents 
and pence by more than 30%. As this included a net beneficial 
impact of a bargain purchase gain on the Evander acquisition 
and impairments on the Group’s investments in Phoenix 
Platinum and Auroch Minerals NL (Auroch), the improvment 
in its headline earnings per share (EPS) was somewhat less.  Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2013 18
The table below demonstrates the group’s earnings per share figures and year on year improvement:
2013 2012 Movement
ZAR millions GBP millions ZAR millions GBP millions ZAR % GBP %
EPS 34.51 2.63 24.83 2.02 39.0 30.2
HEPS 30.07 2.17 24.89 2.03 20.8 6.9
  On 17 November 2012, Gert Fourie passed away when 
the truck he was driving left the road, overturned and 
rolled down a hill at Barberton’s Sheba Mine, 
  On 7 March 2013, Velly Malumane was fatally 
electrocuted while welding underground. 
These tragedies were an anomaly, as Barberton Mines is 
known for its good safety record. These accidents have been 
thoroughly investigated to prevent any re-occurrences. 
The two fatalities leads us to reflect on the overall safety of 
our own operations and South African mining in general. Pan 
African Resources prides itself on a superior safety record, 
within an industry that has remarkably enhanced its safety 
levels over the past decade. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT
continued
Current year earnings were reduced by once-off costs 
associated with two impairments – amounting to  
R242.3 million – and the Evander Mines acquisition costs of 
R18.3 million. These impairments arose from the write-down 
of Phoenix Platinum and Auroch investments due to the 
challenges experienced at Phoenix Platinum and the impact of 
lower gold prices and exploration challenges in Mozambique.
Safety –  
Our Primary Concern is for our People
This past financial year was not without severe disappointments 
and challenges from a safety perspective. Although safety is 
the top priority at Pan African Resources, we are saddened to 
report the tragic loss of two employees at Barberton Mines. 
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Evander Mines  LTIFR and RIFR
(Rates per million man hours)
2
–
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
LTIFR
RIFR
16.64
4.33    
10.39
2.80
7.41
2.54
3.72
2.64
4.00
3.07
2.90
1.74 Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2013 19
COMPANY OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP STATEMENTS OUR BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Current year safety performances at Evander Mines have 
resulted in the best ever recorded Reportable Injury and Lost 
Time Injury Frequency Rates for this operation 
Phoenix maintained its excellent safety record, with no injuries 
recorded since turning the first sod in April 2010.
In South Africa, most of the shallow and easily accessible 
mineral deposits are depleted with mining now taking place 
at exceptional depths. Despite these difficult conditions, the 
mining industry has improved safety over the past 10 years 
by 66%, to levels comparable with the United States. Fatalities 
from “fall of ground”accidents have reduced by 81%, from  
134 in 2003 to 26 in 2012. The industry reduced the  
172 fatalities reported in 2002 to 54 in 2011.
The fact that the South African mining industry was able to 
outperform every other mining country in improving safety 
levels is an object lesson as to what can be done when 
labour, management and government proactively collaborate 
in resolving a pressing issue. This proves that with a focused 
effort, all stakeholders can work together for the common 
good of the industry. 
South African mining in context
Despite all the social and economic difficulties in the mining 
sector, currently highlighted by the anniversary of the Marikana 
tragedy and demanding labour negotiations, our industry 
remains a primary South African economic driver. The South 
African Chamber of Mines estimates that mining is directly 
responsible for 19% of all South African economic activity 
and that its products support a further 25% of industrial and 
other economic activity. The materials produced by South 
Africa’s mines are beneficiated or processed by downstream 
industries to produce many of our countries most essential 
goods and services.  Mining also generates a very significant 
percentage of South Africa’s foreign currency reserves, and 
supports our own rand.
According to the Chamber of Mines the South African mining 
industry directly employed an estimated 513,000 employees 
with an average annual remuneration per mining employee 
of ZAR169,679 in 2011. This represents approximately 6.3% 
of the country’s formal non-agricultural employment and an 
increase of 169% in annual wages from 2001 to 2011.
Although a mature industry in South Africa and possibly 
incorrectly perceived to be declining in importance, South 
Africa as a country still has the world’s biggest stockpile of 
proven mineral reserves. This is in a world where global mining 
provides the raw materials for 45% of the world’s economic 
activity. Although South Africa has slipped down the table of 
gold producers from its previously held top spot, our country 
holds approximately 12.7% of the world’s gold reserves and 
produces approximately 7.8% of its annual production (2011 
Chamber of Mines figures).
Our government attracts a good deal of negative media 
attention at times. South African leaders have however 
recognised that urgent societal and economic transformation 
is required to uplift our poor and mend our society, and 
their programmes over the last 20 years have done a great 
deal.  Since 2009 South Africa has spent ZAR860 billion rand 
on infrastructure projects, with a further ZAR430 billion 
allocated for additional development. This funding goes 
into schools, public health, water and sanitation, as well as 
expanding transport and logistics links. South Africa’s National 
Development Plan will provide the “blueprint” for our future 
development and growth.
South African mining has a key role to play in financing GDP 
growth and helping reduce unemployment. To be able to 
perform this role, we must be allowed the security of tenure 
and scope to attract capital investment into maintaining and 
developing mines.
Our mining industry has entered into a critical phase. For 
some years now it has been the battleground of choice for 
opposing political ideologies, populist leaders – and more 
recently, competing trade unions. 
Government has been working hard to stabilise the situation 
and we are fully behind Deputy President Motlanthe’s 
consensus-seeking efforts to draw all stakeholders into 
working together for a sustainable future for mining.
South African mining is at this juncture right now and we call 
on the leaders of all stakeholders – employees, government, 
mining houses, communities and political parties – to come 
to the table with the level-headed vision that South Africa 
showed the world when negotiating our relatively peaceful 
transition to democracy. At stake is the bedrock upon which 
the South African economy was built. 
Pan African has a diverse, multi-national shareholder base, but 
our operations and management is proudly South African.   
We are positive about the future of South Africa as a mining 
investment and operating destination, nowhere else in Africa 
has the established infrastructure, technical knowledge and 
support, and mining history and legacy of our country. We ask 
that shareholders continue to trust us to generate growth and 
returns in an environment we know well.
Pan African – 
A high-yielding dividend stock
We recognise that equity investors require a tangible return 
on their investment.   
The board has recommended a dividend approximating 
ZAR240 million for the financial year 2013, equating to 
ZAR0.1314 per share, resulting in a dividend cover of 
2.3 times. This dividend is to be approved at the AGM on 
22 November 2013. 
We believe the fact that we are able to pay a dividend so soon 
after the acquisition of Evander Mines, in a difficult economic 
and operating environment, demonstrates the quality of the  Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2013 20
Group’s people, assets and management’s ability to continue 
to deliver results. 
Subject to shareholder approval 
at the AGM, we will resume 
dividend payments at a proposed 
dividend of ZAR0.1314 per share.  
Mining reserves and resources
The Group’s approach to maximising the value of mineral 
resources and reserves is based on a well-defined exploration 
programme, innovation in both geological/resource modeling, 
optimal mine planning, and continual optimisation of the asset 
portfolio and brownfield projects.
The Group’s gold resources increased more than fivefold, due 
to the successful conclusion of the Evander Mines acquisition.  
Mineral resources now total 35.13 Moz of gold and 0.68 Moz 
of PGM 4E (2012: 5.98 Moz of gold and 0.49 Moz of PGM 4E). 
An aggressive exploration strategy at Barberton Mines 
identified new resources including the Segalla and Camelot 
slimes dams. Year-on-year, Barberton Mines raised its mineral 
resources by 574,164 oz of contained gold.
The Evander Mines acquisition contributed to a 693% increase 
in the Group’s mineral reserves to 9.20 Moz of gold.
Our successful commissioning of the BTRP at Barberton has 
encouraged us to develop the Evander Tailings Retreatment 
Plant (ETRP). Its tailings dumps contain a mineral reserve of 
409,000 oz of gold. This additional throughput will optimise 
the existing processing plant, and has a time frame of between 
12 and 18 months.
Other potential organic projects at Evander include the  
No. 3 Decline, which has a mineral resource of 2.30 Moz and 
a time frame of between 18 and 24 months to convert to a 
reasonable reserve.
Brownfield projects at Evander include Poplar and Evander 
South, both at a pre-feasibility stage. Recommendations have 
been submitted regarding the scope of work for a bankable 
feasibility study for these two projects.
Future outlook and growth
On-mine projects
Pan African Resources successfully operates according to our 
low cost and high margin business model. With the addition 
of a flat, empowered management team and low overhead 
structure, the Group believes that it has positioned itself as a 
long-term, sustainable business. 
Barberton Mines, as is evident from the success of the BTRP , 
has demonstrated a proven ability to source additional 
ounces at low input costs. The social impact of the BTRP in 
the Barberton area which has high unemployment, has been 
very positive with the creation of an additional 83 permanent 
employment opportunities. The Group will continue to ensure 
historic productions levels are maintained at Barberton Mines 
from the underground operations. The management team will 
further ensure the BTRP is brought into full production, taking 
Barberton Mines to 115,000oz of gold production.
Over the past year the mining industry has placed greater 
emphasis on cost delivery, free cash flows and enhanced 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT
continued
 Evander Mines Projects Category
T onnes 
(million)
Grade 
(g/t)
Gold 
(Moz)
Depth below 
surface (m)
Poplar Resource 28.5 6.84 6.27 500 – 1,200
Evander South Resource 28.3 6.60 6.01 300 – 1,200
Rolspruit Resource 25.5 10.83 8.87 1,400 – 3,300
Evander Mines Project T otal 82.3 6.78 21.15 300 – 3,300
BTRP – inaugural gold pour 
took place on 28 June 2013. Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2013 21
COMPANY OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP STATEMENTS OUR BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
shareholders returns. Without diverting from this demand we 
will continue to concentrate on the efficient use of capital. 
Evander Mines has commenced a lower-grade mining cycle, 
until the 2015 financial year, when we will revert to the high-
grade mining cycle. In an effort to ameliorate this reduction in 
revenue from the mine, we have identified and are evaluating 
numerous potential organic projects at Evander Mines. 
Through the process of targeting incremental ounces, cost 
of production at Evander Mines will be reduced with greater 
economies of scale and infrastructure synergies. 
Already underway is a sweeping and vamping project at 
Evander No. 7 Shaft, producing gold from previously mined out 
areas. A second project to process additional surface sources 
requires the conversion of one of the current autogenous 
mills to a ball mill to process fines at a rate of 20,000 tonnes 
per month over 21 months, thereby extending the current 
LOM of surfaces sources. 
A further initiative being considered is the reopening of the 
No. 3 Decline mining section at Evander Mines No. 7 Shaft. 
This could enable the quick recovery of additional gold. An 
additional benefit of this project is that it allows access to the 
2010 Payshoot exploration project, which has the potential of 
a significant new mining area. 
Surface tailings within the Evander Mines complex have a total 
resource of 203 million tonnes at an average grade of 0.29 
g/t. A total reserve of 39 million tons of tailings at 0.32 g/t 
is available at Kinross. The Kinross metallurgical plant, with a 
nameplate capacity of 260,000 tonnes per month, has some 
180,000 tonnes per month of excess capacity. Having identified 
this as a “quick value” project, we initiated the necessary 
project work to bring the proposed ETRP into production. 
This project entails the upgrading of the existing Evander 
Mines plant, with capital spend estimated to be significantly 
less costly than that of the BTRP and with expected delivery 
to be within 18 months.
Phoenix Platinum will remain a focus area over next year in 
order to identify alternative feedstock for the plant to process, 
improve recoveries, reduce cost efficiencies and improve 
production levels.
Other major projects at Evander Mines
Additional major opportunities are Poplar, Evander South 
and Rolspruit projects. We have tasked SRK to perform a 
bankable feasibility gap analysis on previous pre-feasibility 
studies on the Poplar and Evander South projects and will, 
during the 2014 financial year, consider options of progressing 
these projects in a manner that will benefit the Group and 
its shareholders.
The Group’s operations have sufficient reserves and resources 
for long-term mining. While the gold price fluctuates through 
a zone of uncertainty and mining in general is challenged by 
labour, regulatory and cost pressures, Pan African will adopt 
a “steady as it goes” low-expenditure approach until the 
market indicates that we should develop more aggressively 
for faster growth.
Partnering with our stakeholders
Local communities at Barberton Mines and Evander Mines, 
are home to the majority of our operations employees. The 
betterment of these communities is in the interest not just of 
the Group and its employees but also the employees’ families, 
their children and parents and extended families. Better living 
conditions for employees and their loved ones and increasing 
economic development in the local communities contributes 
to South Africa’s journey and progress. Only through the 
consideration and collaboration of all stakeholders will 
the business succeed in aligning the needs and requirements 
of all, and operate in balance and harmony.
During the year the Group’s various operations expended 
some ZAR20.2 million (2012: ZAR14.4 million) on community 
and local economic development projects in terms of the 
approved social and labour plans (SLPs). This represents 4.2% 
(2012: 4.0%) of the Group’s headline earnings. 
Barberton Mines
Government has set targets for the mining industry in 
terms of social development and community upliftment. At 
Barberton Mines we strive not only to meet the criteria but 
to exceed them. We believe in creating a community where 
opportunity and development is available to all and to do so 
in a sustainable manner. This means that we provide funding 
and support through our community projects with the goal 
that they will become fully sustainable organisations in their 
own right.
As a result we have established a Transformation Trust with the 
explicit aim of ensuring critical mass by having our suppliers 
to invest alongside us in order to provide further financing 
for investing in the community. Deloitte Consulting has been 
appointed to administer the Trust. In this manner the Trust 
aims to raise a further two to three million rand per annum, 
over and above contributions from Barberton Mines. The 
project portfolio for the Trust is aligned with the Integrated 
Development Plan of the Umjindini Local Municipality.
Through Our Social and Labour Plans as well as our 
Corporate and Social investment initiatives, which form part 
of our approved mining licence, we operate several Local 
Economic Development (LED) projects in the community of 
which we are extremely proud. 
At Barberton Mines, a partnership with Adopt-a-School 
has resulted in the opening of the Sinqobile Primary School, 
which provides education to 1,100 pupils drawn from the 
local Sinqobile community. The project took three years 
from the planning and consultative stage to completion and 
created 39 temporary jobs during the construction period. 
The majority of the construction and establishment costs 
were expended with local suppliers. Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2013 22
The Sinqobile vegetable garden project has created nine 
permanent jobs and is operated as a fully functioning small 
business, providing fresh produce to the local community and 
retailers.
The Community Skills Development Centre in Sinqobile 
represents a significant investment in infrastructure in the 
community and is designed to promote job creation and small 
business development through the provision of technical 
training. To date, three cooperatives have been established by 
alumni of the centre. Barberton Mines assisted the Sewing 
cooperative in obtaining SABS standards approval, which 
affords them the opportunity to supply the Mine and other 
local businesses with safety clothing. The Welding cooperative 
has secured a contract with a local Hardware store to supply 
steel window frames and security gates.
The Umjindi jewellery project provides metal arts and 
jewellery manufacturing skills to disadvantaged youths from 
the local community, through a formal training and mentorship 
programme. The training is accredited by the MQA and has 
resulted in the creation of 8 full time jobs to date.
Bursaries – Following on our theme of learning and the 
development of our employees and the community, 
Barberton Mines implemented a fulltime bursary scheme 
during the 2011 financial year. Candidates are sourced from 
our local community, with the intention of offering them job 
opportunities on the completion of their studies. The bursary 
covers full tuition fees, accommodation, textbooks and a 
monthly allowance. Currently we have 10 fulltime students 
enrolled.
The mine also supports improved community health through 
participating and financially supporting the local municipality 
in its annual HIV/Aids awareness campaign. A follow up 
campaign at local schools was also sponsored during the year. 
This campaign focused on educating teachers and learners on 
dealing with pupils who are affected by HIV/AIDS. Five local 
schools benefitted from the program. The Department 
of Education expressed its appreciation to the Mine for 
supporting this initiative.
Over and above the current projects that are in place, 
Barberton Mine has also committed itself to the following 
new projects for the 2013/2014 financial year:
  The expansion of the Makhanya road in the Emjindini 
T ownship at a total project cost of ZAR2.5 million.
  Renovation of the De Kaap Vallei primary school at Sheba 
at a total project cost of ZAR800,000.
  The construction of a library and science block 
at Emjindini high school at a total project cost of 
ZAR1.2 million.
Barberton Mines also support and contribute financially on a 
monthly basis to the following local organisations:
  Verulam soup kitchen in Sinqobile – monthly contribution 
of ZAR12,000.
  Thandanani soup kitchen in Emjindini – monthly 
contribution of ZAR5,000.
 Mlambongwane Home based care centre – monthly 
contribution of ZAR5,000.
 St John’s HIV orphanage – monthly contribution of 
ZAR10,000.
 De Kaap Vallei school soup kitchen – monthly 
contribution of ZAR5,000.
Evander Mines
Evander Mines undertook several local economic 
development projects which have had a direct impact 
on the mining community surrounding the mine and its 
labour sending area in the Eastern Cape. These projects are 
conducted in partnership with the local municipalities and 
are designed to support implementation of Evander Mine’s 
integrated development plans.
Specific projects include:
  An internship programme, which employs four interns 
from the local community.
  The development of an SMME business through the 
construction of a bakery in Embalenhle T ownship. This 
project is expected to take three years to complete at 
an estimated cost of ZAR6 million.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT
continued
 Sinqobile Primary School provides 
education to 1,100 pupils. 
 10 full-time bursary students 
from the community.  Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2013 23
COMPANY OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP STATEMENTS OUR BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  A sustainable human settlement development, which 
entailed the construction of 16 family units using local 
businesses. A further 26 family units will be renovated 
during 2014 financial year.
Phoenix Platinum
The Phoenix Platinum operation installed a solar powered 
borehole for the Modderspruit community which provides 40 
households with clean water. A second system is to be installed 
at the local community hall during the 2013 financial year.
Welcome and thanks
A warm welcome to all new employees, and stakeholders to 
the Pan African Resources stable and in particular, to all of 
the new employees at Evander Mines. Our thanks go out to 
Graham Briggs and his Harmony team for the professional 
and friendly manner in which the Evander Mines deal was 
undertaken and the continued support provided to Evander 
Mines through the current shared services arrangement.
Pan African Resources is privileged to have the right people 
at all levels in our organisation, but none are more important 
than those men and women who go underground daily and 
competently perform their duties, often under physically 
challenging circumstances. I would like to thank the general 
managers, namely Casper Strydom at Barberton Mines, 
Manny da Silva at Evander Mines and Bertin Mcleod at 
Phoenix Platinum for their tireless effort and achievements 
during the financial year. 
Underpinning our success and assisting in ensuring a bright 
future for Pan African Resources are the on-mine support 
crews, management and the behind the scenes corporate 
employees who deliver their best for the Group. Our lean and 
flat structure makes the business model possible and ensures 
we continue to deliver on our set goals.
At the end of February 2013 our previous CEO, Jan Nelson, 
left Pan African Resources and we thank him for his years of 
service and wish him well in his future ventures.
During the current year, our shareholders entrusted us with 
more than ZAR707.3 million in an oversubscribed rights issue.  
We wish to thank this very distinguished shareholder base for 
their continued faith and loyal support. 
We have also been strongly supported by a well established 
board that offers a broad range of experience in mining and 
commerce. Their ongoing advice and guidance is invaluable in 
ensuring we remain on course. During the year Shanduka, our 
BEE shareholder, rendered exceptional business expertise and 
contributed to our success. 
We look forward to continuing our onward journey together!
Ron Holding
Chief Executive Officer
16 September 2013
