 26 Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S
REPORT
Year in review
I am pleased to report that we have delivered on our strategic 
priorities for the year under review. Despite challenges 
(on which I will elaborate further in this report), Pan African 
Resources’ quality assets and dedicated, experienced staff and 
management have again delivered returns for shareholders. 
These returns can be measured in profits, but also importantly 
in another attractive dividend to shareholders. This dividend, 
and also our new policy to pay a progressive annual dividend 
(refer to page 125), demonstrates the board’s confidence in  
Pan African Resources’ operations, our people, and our ability 
to continue to deliver and improve results.
We have made good progress towards solidifying our position 
as an African-focussed mid-tier precious metals miner. 
Our annual revenue was up by 41.2% and gold production up 
by 44.2%. Evander Mines is now fully integrated and part of the 
group. At Barberton Mines, the BTRP became fully operational 
and has been delivering ounces at above the originally 
planned margin.
Nonetheless, we continued to see a challenging macro-
environment during the year, and our results and margins were 
impacted by the continued weakness in precious metals prices 
as well as inflationary and other cost pressures in South Africa. 
In addition and as anticipated, at Evander Mines, mining in lower 
grade areas also had a significant adverse impact on our financial 
results. We are actively implementing a number of measures to 
mitigate the impact of this lower grade mining cycle. Measures 
implemented, or in progress, to mitigate the impact of the 
current low grade cycle at Evander Mines include the following:
 The construction of the ETRP to yield an estimated 10,000oz 
of gold per annum with a LOM of 17 years. The ETRP project 
is progressing well and expected to be in production by 
January 2015.
 Surface sources throughput in the Evander Mines’ plant has 
been increased from 18,000t per month to approximately 
30,000t per month. To maintain these tonnages for the full 
2015 financial year, additional sources are being investigated.
 Vamping (the mining of historical “leftovers” remaining after 
previous mining operations) at Evander Mines No. 7 Shaft 
has been expanded to include the 15 level return airway mud 
accumulation project. This has been contributing additional 
ounces from July 2014.
 Management is concentrating efforts to increase availability 
of conveyor belts in the Evander Mines No. 8 Shaft declines. 
A refurbishment programme has been implemented to effect 
the necessary mechanical improvements and upgrades.
Pan African Resources’ quality 
assets and dedicated, experienced 
staff and management have again 
delivered returns for shareholders. 27
STRATEGIC 
REPORT
Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2014
 Management has rescheduled the mine planning and 
improved mining flexibility by increasing development rates 
on 25 and 25A levels at Evander Mines No. 8 Shaft to access 
more stoping areas.
Through focussed initiatives, exploration and planning at our 
operations, we have positively enhanced these valuable assets’ 
respective LOMs:
 Barberton Mines’ LOM increased to 19 years (2013: 17 years) 
due to exploration ounces added at Fairview Mine and 
Sheba Mine;
 BTRP’s LOM has been increased to 15 years (2013: 12 years) 
by remodelling the tonnages at the Harper South dam 
and converting the Consort and Sheba tailings dams into 
a probable Mineral Reserve;
 Evander Mines’ LOM was increased to 17 years (2013: 
14 years) as a result of including the mining area between 
25 and 26 levels at Evander Mines No. 8 Shaft, not previously 
in the LOM plan – now termed the Decline Extension project. 
A robust mine design was considered in order to convert the 
Mineral Resource into a Mineral Reserve;
 ETRP has established a LOM of 17 years (aligning with the life 
of No. 8 Shaft) and will exploit the slimes on Kinross tailings 
dams; and
 Phoenix Platinum’s LOM has increased to 28 years (2013: 
20 years).
Strategy
In the year under review we made good progress in targeting 
high margins at a low cost. This is borne out by the highly 
cost-effective BTRP operation, the construction of the ETRP 
at Evander Mines and a potentially larger successor plant – the 
Elikhulu Project (see ’Looking ahead’ below).
The LOM at Evander Mines No. 8 Shaft has been increased 
by extending the decline system down to 26 level (the Decline 
Extension project) to access the resources between 25 and 
26 level, which will also alleviate mining flexibility constraints by 
creating additional stoping areas.
Our strong balance sheet and well-established cash-generative 
operations are key differentiators from our peers. These 
provide Pan African Resources with a competitive advantage 
to further growth (through our operations and organic project 
pipeline) and also position the group to capitalise on potential 
acquisition opportunities. In the year ahead we will focus on 
maintaining our statement of financial position, while also 
seeking new opportunities to create value for shareholders. 
We plan to continue rewarding shareholders through dividends.
Health and safety
Our commitment to safety remains at the heart of our culture 
and is evident in the way we operate and manage the group. 
It was with great sadness that we experienced four fatalities in the 
group during the year.  We extend our deepest condolences to 
the families, friends and colleagues of the deceased. In an effort to 
prevent a recurrence the group continues to focus on safety. We 
have implemented corrective actions to as far as possible prevent 
any further recurrences. Further detail in this regard can be found in 
our Sustainability Report on our website (www.panafricanresources.com).
Performance
Our flagship asset, Barberton Mines, continues to underpin 
the group’s performance with high-margin underground 
production. It remains one of the lowest cost mines in South 
Africa. The BTRP was completed in 2013 on schedule and on 
budget. It supports Barberton Mines as a long life, low cost gold 
producer. The BTRP has increased efficiencies and further dilutes 
the costs at the mine as a whole. The plant became operational 
at the beginning of the year in review and has already achieved 
its targets. At year-end it was producing gold at an all-in cost of 

At Barberton Mines, the successful commissioning of the BTRP 
assisted in offsetting a reduction in underground production 
which occurred when the Sheba Mine lost a month’s production 
due to flooding caused by excessively high rainfall (just on 
200mm in 10 hours) during March 2014, as well as a temporary 
technical setback at the central BIOX
®
 plant.
During the year Barberton Mines’ wage costs increased in 
excess of inflation in line with our two-year wage agreement 
with NUM. Labour and staff costs were further impacted by 
the introduction of a medical aid scheme for Barberton Mines’ 
employees. Salaries and wages represent the greatest single cost 
at Barberton Mines at 44.7% (2013: 48.5%) of total production 
costs. These necessary increases and initiatives reflect our 
commitment to our people and our social obligations.
Evander Mines is performing as anticipated and contributed 
to the group for the full year as opposed to four months’ 
contribution in the prior year. As planned the mine is 
currently operating in a low grade mining cycle that is 
impacting underground gold production and cash unit costs. 
We expect this cycle to continue until February 2015 where 
after mining will gradually move into the high grade cycle 
by August 2015. To compensate for the lower grade cycle 
we have increased tonnages from surface sources, targeted 
additional vamping areas at No. 7 Shaft and are recovering gold 
from the Kinross plant mill floor. During the year the board 
approved the necessary capital expenditure for construction 
of the ETRP, through the refurbishment of dormant sections 
of the existing Kinross metallurgical plant, to recover gold from 
the retreatment of gold tailings. This is envisaged to increase 
Evander Mines’ gold production by up to 10,000oz per annum 

At our CTRP Phoenix Platinum’s performance improved during 
the year and the operation saw its first year of profitability. Plant 
recovery rates increased to 29% during the year (2013: 21%). 
This was achieved through adjusting the reagent suite in the 
extraction process to deal with variable feed sources. 28 Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2014
Finally, the depreciation of the ZAR against the USD, and 
good control of aggregate and unit costs in ZAR terms, 


in capital expenditure spent on the BTRP even though Evander 
Mines’ gold production declined as result of the low grade 
mining cycle.
Financial performance
Group revenue year-on-year increased by 41.2% to 
ZAR2,608.8 million (2013: ZAR1,848.1 million). In terms of costs, 
the total cost of production was up 82.3% to ZAR1,795.9 million 
(2013: ZAR985.1 million).
During the year, ZAR39.0 million was added to the bottom line 
upon realising profits from zero cost collars.
We have proposed a dividend of ZAR258.0 million, a 7.4% 
increase from ZAR240.3 million declared in the 2013 
financial year.
Please refer to the FD’s Report on page 42 and the financial 
statements for further detail.
Commodity prices
During the year under review gold prices retreated considerably 
 
a decrease of 16.1% year-on-year. Please refer to the FD’s 
Report on page 42 for further detail.
Looking ahead
The construction and commissioning of the ETRP is significant, 
as it has an estimated resource of 0.4 million ounces and 
adds immediate production ounces to Evander Mines. Should 
the ETRP project meet targets, we will evaluate a project to 
commission a further, much larger plant – the Elikhulu Project – 
situated at Evander Mines to treat tailings from the Winkelhaak, 
Leslie, Bracken and Kinross dam storage facilities, with an 
estimated resource of 1.5 million ounces.
The refurbishment of Fairview No. 2 and 3 Decline Shafts at 
Barberton Mines will continue for another 18 months, after 
which operations will revert to six shifts per week.
Once the above plans are actioned we will be on track to 
achieve our targeted 250,000oz of annual production from our 
current portfolio of assets and infrastructure. 
Our commitment to safety remains at the heart of our culture 
and is evident in the way we operate and manage the group.  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S
REPORT (continued) 29
STRATEGIC 
REPORT
Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2014
Our brownfields project pipeline at Evander Mines also includes 
the Evander South, Poplar and Rolspruit projects. Evander 
South has estimated resources of 5.2 million ounces, Poplar 
5.4 million ounces, and Rolspruit 8.9 million ounces. 
Pan African Resources is also well positioned to take advantage 
of further growth opportunities.
Thank you
We extend our thanks to our management team, our mine 
managers and all their staff for their hard work and persistence 
that have allowed Pan African Resources to continue growing 
from strength to strength. We also thank our fellow directors 
for their support and guidance.
Ron Holding
CEO
16 September 2014
STRATEGIC 
REPORT
