 24 Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2014
CHAIRMAN’S
REPORT
The 2014 financial year was a challenging one for the gold 
industry. It recorded the first annual decline in the gold price 
in 13 years. However, Pan African Resources remains well 
positioned in relation to its peers in adapting to this and 
responded quickly to volatile markets.
With the acquisition of Evander Mines, the group has evolved 
rapidly to become a larger operator and producer and can 
now certainly be classified as an African-focused mid-tier 
precious metals miner. The addition of Evander Mines in 
2013 has diversified the group from the previous single asset 
business model and in so doing, reduced operating risk. The 
Evander Mines operations have been successfully integrated 
into the group and the newly commissioned BTRP became fully 
operational during the year. The group’s total gold output for 
the year increased to 188,179oz (2013: 130,493oz), of which 
Evander Mines contributed 76,556oz.
In addition, the board established the following priorities for the 
year under review: strengthening our board and management 
team, enhancing our governance structure, and driving an 
intense focus on mining sustainably. I am pleased to report we 
have made solid progress in all of these areas.
Management changes
We implemented numerous board level changes in the year, 
most notably the appointment of Ron Holding as CEO. Ron was 
previously Pan African Resources’ Joint Interim CEO and prior 
to that, closely involved with the group’s operations as COO. 
Ron’s highly experienced record has seen him occupy a number 
of senior positions across the various stages of developing 
and mining gold and platinum mineral deposits. He is a 
seasoned operator, with deep technical and executive skills 
and a proven track-record of delivering the full potential from 
operations under his direction. His appointment has significantly 
strengthened the company’s market position and will help drive 
further growth in the year ahead.
In addition, Cobus Loots was appointed FD after holding the 
position of Joint Interim CEO with Ron. Cobus has been a 
Pan African Resources’ director since 2009, having previously 
held the position of managing director of Shanduka. Busi Sitole 
resigned as FD with effect from 30 September 2013. I would like 
to thank Busi for her contribution to the company and wish her 
the best in her future endeavours.
With the acquisition of Evander 
Mines, the group has evolved rapidly 
to become a larger operator and 
producer and can now certainly be 
classified as an African-focused 
mid-tier precious metals miner.
pidly 
be  25
STRATEGIC 
REPORT
Pan African Resources PLC Integrated Annual Report 2014
Governance
Pan African Resources is committed to the highest standards 
of governance. We are pleased to have appointed Thabo 
Mosololi as a non-executive director in the year, reinforcing 
the independence of the board. He brings with him a wealth of 
experience in governance and audit. We also recently appointed 
Rowan Smith as an independent non-executive director. He was 
previously managing director of Shanduka and has more than 
20 years’ experience in the minerals and investment banking 
industries. His appointment will further strengthen the technical 
and commercial expertise available to our board.
Rob Still resigned as an independent non-executive director 
on 1 July 2014, after serving on the board for 10 years. I thank 
Rob for his invaluable contribution to Pan African Resources’ 
journey of growth from a junior exploration company to a mid-
tier miner.
Financial results
Both Pan African Resources’ earnings and headline earnings 
declined in the year under review. Although this decline was 
generally attributable to factors outside of our control, such as 
the low grade mining cycle at Evander Mines and gold prices, 
we are aware that shareholders require a return on investment 
even over the short term. The new dividend policy (refer to 
page 125) and attractive dividend recommended by the board 
demonstrates our confidence in Pan African Resources’ business 
going forward.
Mining sustainably
While the pervasive local labour unrest continues to pose a 
significant risk in our industry, we are proud to report that we did 
not experience significant disruptions at our operations during 
the year under review. Despite our best efforts, we believe that 
the labour environment in South Africa will be challenging for 
some time yet, and as such, all parties have to cooperate in 
order to ensure the sustainability of our industry in the future. 
We are committed to maintaining our good relationships with 
the unions by continually adopting a proactive, consultative, 
open-door approach.
More than 10 years ago the South African government set formal 
targets for social development and community upliftment as 
encapsulated in the Mining Charter. With 2014 marking a decade 
since the charter’s inception, the government expectation is for 
mining companies to now reach full compliance. We continue to 
strive to meet and also exceed these targets.
A key target of the Mining Charter includes the conversion 
of all hostels into family units as part of a larger scheme 
of improving living conditions for mineworkers. We have 
committed substantial investment to an extensive improvement 
programme in this regard, upgrading and converting old hostels 
into single accommodation and family units at Evander Mines. 
In line with the Mining Charter, Barberton Mines recruits only 
from its local region, an area with high unemployment, which 
sees the majority of its employees living off-mine.
We are committed to eliminating or minimising the negative 
impacts of our operations and continuously look to improve 
our environmental performance. To this end environmental 
management is well integrated into management practices. 
In terms of our long-term environmental obligations, 
environmental plans at the mines are compliant with presiding 
regulatory requirements. Provisions in this regard are based on 
the net present value of the estimated cost of restoring the 
environmental disturbance. The estimated cost of rehabilitation 
is reviewed annually and adjusted as appropriate for changes in 
legislation or technology. We are also constantly rehabilitating 
old mining areas, and reducing final closure costs in this manner.
At Pan African Resources we strongly believe that our employees 
and communities should benefit from our mining activities, and 
we continue to undertake a number of community projects 
with the goal that they become fully sustainable organisations in 
their own right over time.
Please see our Sustainability Report on our website  
(www.panafricanresources.com) for further detail on our efforts in this 
regard.
Outlook
Looking forward to 2015, we expect to see further 
improvements in our business as we continue to drive 
efficiencies and streamline our activities. Specifically, 2015 will 
see the commissioning of the ETRP at Evander Mines in the third 
quarter of the financial year and in the second half it will exit the 
current low grade mining cycle. I am confident that the company 
has the team and resources in place to continue on a path of 
operational excellence.
Thank you
I would like to thank my fellow board members for their 
guidance and insight during the year. Thank you as well to our 
shareholders, our employees, all business partners and the 
industry regulators for your ongoing support of Pan African 
Resources.
Keith Spencer
Chairman
16 September 2014
