 Pangea DiamondFields plc      Annual Report 2007      5
In my review last year I stated that “In 2007, I look[ed]
forward to [PDF] reaching critical mass with the
acceleration of the exploration process and the
upgrading of three projects from advanced
exploration stage to bulk sampling”. I am pleased to
report that this objective has been achieved and,
indeed, exceeded.
PDF now has one project at pilot mining stage, four
at bulk sampling, one moving into bulk sampling early
in 2008 and the balance at differing stages of
exploration. This achievement has been the result of
steady and methodical exploration, plant construction
and operation work by the PDF team operating under
challenging circumstances.
PDF has established excellent exploration skills and
the geological team, led by Mr Anton Esterhuizen,
continues to demonstrate its experience and
commitment in the discovery and delineation of
world-class resources. As the Company is now
progressing as planned to bulk sampling evaluation
of its projects and to the commercialisation thereof,
logistical and operational skills become paramount.
The PDF team's achievements in 2007 in establishing
its operations in remote areas of the DRC and the
CAR in particular are encouraging and augur well for
their ability to capitalise on the opportunities available
to the Company.
Certainly I and the PDF team are under no illusions
as to the need to expedite the commercialisation of
the deposits that have been delineated so that the
Company can start demonstrating its potential and
generate positive cash flow from these deposits. In
order to achieve this during 2008, the team will focus
on completing its bulk sampling programmes and on
delineating sufficient resources to justify progression
to commercial scale mining and commissioning of
at least two mines by year end; exploration for new
alluvial diamond deposits continues unabated. 
Despite having successfully raised approximately
US$15 million in additional equity funding in February
2008, a considerable achievement given market
conditions, PDF will target the raising of additional
funds during the year.
Commercial fundamentals within the diamond industry
remain robust. Whilst PDF is attempting to develop
commercial mines in remote areas, there is little doubt
that the indicated returns are worth the effort. 
I continue to be most favourably impressed by the
dedication and effectiveness of the men and women
who, under Rob Still and his executive, manage and
operate Pangea DiamondFields’ range of activities
from early exploration through to mining, finance and
administration. I would like to extend my thanks to
them all for their efforts to progress your Company
towards the status of a productive and viable mid-tier
diamond producing company. 
During 2008 Rob Still, our Chief Executive, will move
to Deputy Chairman and Brett Thompson will take
over as Chief Executive. I have confidence in them
both to move the Company forward as planned. 
Bill Nairn
Chairman
31 March 2008
William Alan Nairn, Chairman
CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW
