 6 Pangea DiamondFields plc      Annual Report 2007
Introduction
Your company's Admission Document on its listing on
the AIM market in 2006 stated that: “Pangea's
immediate objective is to select and progress the best
three projects [in its portfolio] to mine development
by the end of 2009 and to grow these mines to
optimum scale by modular expansion thereafter”.
Some 20 months later it is gratifying to report that
this immediate objective and target remains Pangea's
focus and that the Company is on track to achieve it.
Furthermore, the overall fundamentals of the diamond
industry remain positive and the supply/demand and
pricing outlook remains favourable. In short, our
objectives remain economically worth pursuing. 
Since our listing in October of 2006, Pangea has made
steady but hard-won progress across its portfolio of
ten projects, located in four countries.
Additional equipment is in transit to upgrade Dimbi
in the CAR to pilot mining status and Longatshimo in
the DRC has now progressed to bulk sampling with
Cassanguidi in Angola, after a period of trial mining,
planned to be shortly upgraded to commercial scale.
In South Africa, bulk sampling has re-commenced at
Pangea's Harts River project in the Brussels area and
equipment is currently being mobilised to commence
bulk sampling in the Pampierstad area, while bulk
sampling continues at Bakerville. 
Since its admission to AIM in October 2006,
$26 million has been spent in the evaluation of our
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT
projects and, of this, 88% has been spent “in the
ground”, including 54% on capital equipment.
Pangea's project evaluation work across its entire
portfolio is characterised by the steady, procedural
and systematic application of fundamental geological
techniques and by a gradual but incremental
resolution of attendant logistical challenges. This
emphasis on “bottom-up” fundamental work is
intended to reduce project risks and enhance the
probability of the future commercial success of
Pangea’s projects.
The mining and resources industry is booming
worldwide and increasingly companies appear to be
“ignoring or skipping” the boring fundamentals in
their quest for quick progress, perhaps none more so
than in diamond exploration. When the tide recedes,
we at Pangea intend to be fully clothed. 
In February 2008, and despite difficult market
conditions, Pangea raised approximately US$15 million
by the issue of 16,5 million new shares at £0.46 per
share. These funds will be utilised to pursue the
commercialisation of its major projects. In addition,
Pangea is exploring its options in raising a further
US$15-US$25 million. 
Given the consistent achievement of its stated targets
and the potential of its project portfolio, the Pangea
management team continue to believe that the true
value of the Company has yet to be reflected in our
share price.
Rob Still, Chief Executive  Pangea DiamondFields plc      Annual Report 2007      7
Strategic Overview
Country Spread
Given the potential risks involved with mineral
exploration in general, and with exploration in Africa
and alluvial diamond exploration in particular,
Pangea’s strategy has been to target projects in four
highly prospective countries to diversify its political
and geological risks.
While such a strategy has the potential to spread the
Company’s focus and resources, and presents a
challenge in terms of communicating the high quality
and exploration potential of its projects, we continue
to believe such a strategy will provide the greatest
return for our shareholders.
Pangea’s focus in 2008 will be on commercialising its
core projects to achieve overall positive cash flow
during 2009, while emphasising and communicating
the value and potential of its projects to the
investment community.
Alluvial vs. Kimberlite Exploration
Pangea remains committed to alluvial exploration
and diamond mining. Due to the relatively short
development and capital payback periods, Pangea
is now, after three years, ready to progress its
advanced alluvial diamond projects to commercial
scale production.
Pangea will not expend its resources on kimberlite
exploration and regards grass-roots exploration for
kimberlite deposits as having an inappropriate
risk/return profile. 
Exploration vs Acquisition
Pangea has the core skills to source, evaluate and
progress diamond exploration projects to commercial
scale production at relatively low cost. Although
analyses to date have suggested growth by acquisition
is costlier than in-house development, Pangea
continues to review all opportunities to enhance
shareholder value.
During the past year Pangea was presented with an
exciting opportunity to acquire a significant stake in
the Kao Kimberlite project in Lesotho at a realistic
price from disgruntled investors representing a
significant shareholding. Whilst we believed that the
potential acquisition of this project presented an
opportunity for all shareholders to enhance value,
we unfortunately were unable to acquire control of
the project or joint management and consequently
decided not to pursue the opportunity.
Commercial Production and Cash Flow
Pangea's current strategy is clear and compelling. 
As a result of its phased approach to the evaluation
of its projects, the Company is now in a position to
progress its core projects to commercial scale
production. Successfully achieving this objective is
expected to result in the Company enjoying positive
cash flows by 2H 2009. This will create the required
momentum to invest in further resources and
operational scale and further progress its remaining
projects to production. 
Bauer drilling, Patsema Mega pit sampling, Longatshimo River 8 Pangea DiamondFields plc      Annual Report 2007
Pangea’s key milestones include:
•  At Dimbi – Completing resource delineation from
current bulk sampling plant to enable a go-ahead
decision on mining at “Module 1” scale  in 2H 2008
and to be commissioned and operational by year
end; and
•  At Longatshimo – To commence the bulk sampling
programme in March 2008 and upgrade to pilot
mining in 2H 2008 by increasing mining fleet and
throughput to delineate sufficient resources to
enable a go-ahead decision on mining at “Module
1” scale to proceed in 1H 2009; and
•  At Cassanguidi – To complete commercial
negotiations with the project partners to increase
Pangea's economic interests in the project to
enable a go-ahead decision on mining at “Module
1” scale in 1H 2008 and to be commissioned and
operational by 2H 2008; and
For the twelve months ended
2007 2006 2007 2006
Exploration Exploration Capital Capital 
expenditure expenditure expenditure expenditure
US$ millions US$ millions US$ millions US$ millions
CAR – Dimbi project 5,1 2,6 1,6 3,2
DRC – All projects 2,6 1,0 4,3 –
South Africa – All projects 1,3 1,8 0,4 –
Angola – Lumuanza project – 2,8 – 1,2
Angola – Cassanguidi project – – 0,1 2,0
Total 9,0 8,2 6,4 6,4
At year end, the cash balance was US$3,9 million (2006: US$26,1 million). In February 2008 the Company raised
gross proceeds of approximately US$15 million by placing 16,5 million new shares at £0.46 per share. In addition,
Pangea is exploring its options in raising a further US$15-$25 million during 2008. The Company expects that
these additional funds, if raised, will be used primarily to fund the development of the Company's major
projects.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT continued
•  At Harts River and Bakerville in South Africa – To
continue bulk sampling and project evaluations
so that the projects can proceed to development
in 2009.
Financial Results and Planning
It is the Group's policy to expense all exploration
expenditure. The loss for the year of US$19,0 million
(2006: US$14,9 million) includes US$9,0 million
(2006: US$8,2 million) direct exploration expenditure,
US$2,75 million (2006: US$1,8 million) of depreciation
and US$2,6 million (2006: US$1,3 million) in expensing
employee share options. Total expenditure for the
year was US$ 25,4 million (2006: US$20,1 million),
including capital expenditure. Exploration and capital
expenditure for the year per country/project was
made up as follows: Pangea DiamondFields plc      Annual Report 2007      9
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT continued
Management and Board
Mr JA Dreyer, who is moving to Australia, resigned
from the board during the year. His past service is
appreciated. The board is otherwise unchanged and
I would like to record my appreciation to the
Chairman, Mr Bill Nairn, and the directors for their
wise counsel and support during the year.
Effective 1 July 2008 I shall step down as Chief
Executive owing to other competing work and family
commitments. I shall remain involved as Executive
Deputy Chairman, spending some 50% of my time
on Company matters. I shall be replaced by Brett
Thompson as Chief Executive. The full board and I
have complete faith in both Brett's ability and
commitment to take Pangea forward. 
Acknowledgements
This last financial year has been one of extremely hard
work in often difficult circumstances. A talented and
dedicated team made possible what has been
achieved this year and I would like to thank all the
staff for their efforts.
Rob Still
Chief Executive
31 March 2008
Conveyor belts feeding the DMS, Bakerville 60ct stone on left, Harts River
