 4 Arena Leisure Plc Annual Report 2004
Strategic overview
Arena’s overall objectives are to maximise value for
shareholders by improving the quality of our venues, so that
they can be used 365 days of the year by an increasing number
of people, and to maximise the widespread distribution of our
racing product to bookmakers and the media, both nationally
and internationally .
As the business grows, we will continue to utilise revenues 
in a disciplined manner facilitating further the growth in 
your company . 
Horseracing venues
Arena operates in a racing industry which is rapidly evolving
towards a prosperous future. Racing is the second most 
popular sport in this country by attendance numbers, attracts
widespread television and media coverage and provides 
the opportunity for more than £9 billion of bets to be placed
annually on horseracing across the UK.
Arena will continue to invest in its racecourses to improve 
both the quality and experience for our widening customer
base, and to position the overall business to take advantage 
of the opportunities that lie ahead following the Ofﬁce of Fair
Trading investigation into racing and from the impact of
changing gaming regulation.
Media rights
Arena owns a valuable portfolio of media rights. We host 25% 
of all races run in the UK. These races generate some £2 billion
of betting turnover in the UK and tens of millions of pounds
internationally , with over £50 million from the South African
and Italian markets combined. We will continue to focus and
develop our relationships with bookmakers.
Through our investment in At The Races, we continue to 
ensure that live broadcasts of our racing are transmitted 
to the widest possible audience, both domestically and
internationally . We endeavour to make racing from Arena’s
racecourses available to some ten million satellite and cable
homes in this country , thereby maximising the appeal from 
an awareness, sponsorship, viewing and betting opportunity .
We value our strategic relationship with BSkyB, a world 
leader in innovative multi-channel digital television, in
order to accelerate and maximise this strategic objective.
Ian R Penrose
Chief Executive
7 April 2005
Chief Executive’s statement
‘2004 was a 
transformational 
year for Arena Leisure. 
We are a growth- 
focused company , 
seeking to grow 
organically and, 
where appropriate, 
through acquisition.’
Ian R Penrose 
