 4 Arena Leisure Plc Annual Report 2005
Chief Executive’ s review
our racing product have great commercial
value and it is through our At The Races joint
venture that we seek to derive as much value
for these rights as possible.
Arena’s strategy with regard to these assets
and skills is simple – to deliver added value for
its shareholders.We will achieve this through 
a combination of the following:
• Deliver consistent proﬁt growth through 
the greater utilisation of our assets on both
race-days and the many days in between,
and greater efﬁciency with regard to costs.
The record proﬁts achieved in 2005 are 
a testament to this.
• Invest in improved facilities for customers,
both in terms of the physical facilities
provided at our racecourses, but also in
terms of the racing product that we supply
to the bookmakers. The development
taking place at Doncaster Racecourse
illustrates this approach.
It is ﬁve months since my appointment to the
role of Chief Executive in October 2005. In this
relatively short period, it has become clear to
me that Arena possesses a wealth of talented
people and a range of exciting growth
opportunities. I am grateful to the senior
management within Arena for their assistance
during this transition period. This review sets
out the key events that occurred in 2005 and
also gives an indication of the opportunities
that lie ahead for Arena.
Arena owned and operated six racecourses
throughout 2005 – Royal Windsor, Lingﬁeld
Park,Wolverhampton, Southwell,Worcester
and Folkestone. It also managed Doncaster
throughout most of 2005, acquiring the rights
to redevelop and operate the racecourse in
December 2005. Arena stages around 25% 
of all horseracing in the UK. Its skills are very
much in venue management, providing a great
product and a high quality of service for its
customers. The media rights associated with
Arena possesses a wealth 
of talented people 
and a range of exciting
growth opportunities. Arena Leisure Plc Annual Report 2005 5
Across the six racecourses, total attendance
levels increased by 6.0%, reaching a record 
of 534,000 (2004: 504,000) and, as part of this
growth, we are delighted that we also increased
average ﬁxture attendances. Royal Windsor
demonstrated the greatest growth with average
daily attendance reaching 5,098, a 19%
increase on 2004, including a record daily
attendance of 9,248 on 11 July 2005. Efforts
were made at all Arena courses to increase 
the number of corporate customers as these
represent the customer base that not only
generates the highest spend per head, but 
also offers a market that we believe has strong
growth potential. A 17.5% increase to 47,600
corporate customers (2004: 40,500) reﬂects
this focus, as well as the much improved
facilities on offer in 2005 at Lingﬁeld Park.
Arena also operated Doncaster Racecourse
throughout 2005 under a management
contract on behalf of Doncaster Metropolitan
Borough Council, staging 29 ﬁxtures. Arena
was delighted to be involved with both the
staging of the St Leger, the world’s oldest
classic race, and the introduction of Ladbrokes
as sponsor to the St Leger Festival, thereby
greatly enhancing the prestige of both the
meeting and the St Leger itself. Despite the
lack of modern facilities at the course and
adverse weather conditions throughout the
key St Leger Festival, attendances for the 
year increased by 5.2% to almost 224,000 
(2004: 213,000). This is a tribute to Arena’s
venue management skills and provides a high
degree of conﬁdence that Arena will make 
a great success of the redeveloped Doncaster
Racecourse when it re-opens in 2007.
Arena provided record levels of prize money
in 2005, with owners beneﬁting from a 6%
increase in prize money to over £12m across
Arena’s six tracks. This included signiﬁcant
contributions to ﬁxtures transferred from
Ascot, and the ﬁgure would have been higher
still if three valuable national hunt days had 
not been lost to bad weather in December.
Many of Arena’s racing highlights in 2005 took 
place at the newly refurbished Lingﬁeld Park.
This included Arena’s ﬁrst running of a Grade 1
steeplechase when the £100,000 transferred
Ascot Chase was staged in February , the UK’s
ﬁrst running of a Group race on an All Weather
surface with the transfer of the Silver Trophy
from Ascot in July , and the hosting of the
Littlewoods Bet Direct Winter Derby which is
the centrepiece of the European All Weather
Series.We were delighted that, as a result of
the success of the Winter Derby in recent
years, the International Pattern Committee
agreed to elevate the race to Group 3 status 
for 2006, when the £100,000 contest will 
again prove to be one of the highlights of 
the All Weather season.
• Realise value from any surplus or under -
utilised assets within the Group. This will
primarily relate to the land that Arena owns
– over 1,000 acres of freehold land and
leases on a further 200 acres. In 2005,
Arena disposed of its minority 1%
shareholding in Satellite Information
Services (Holdings) Limited (‘SIS’) for 
a cash consideration of £1.2m and a net
proﬁt of £0.8m. SIS provides television
pictures, text and voice data from
horserace courses and greyhound 
stadia to licensed betting ofﬁces. This
shareholding was not core to Arena’s
operations. Similarly , it is intended that 
a non-core minority shareholding in a US 
tote system developer that is a legacy from
Arena’s software development past will be
sold. The proceeds are not expected to be
large and a provision has been taken
against the carrying value.
• Build on our core strengths, adding value
through acquisitions where appropriate.
Arena is keen to add further horse
racecourses, although due to the 
lack of frequency with which courses
become available at realistic prices,
such acquisitions will be, by necessity ,
opportunistic in their nature.We will identify
appropriate related businesses into which
our undoubted skills are transferable.
Arena declared its ﬁrst dividend in 2004 
of 0.3 pence per share, followed by an interim
dividend in 2005 of 0.25 pence per share. The
Board has proposed a ﬁnal dividend for 2005
of 0.2 pence per share, giving a total dividend
in relation to 2005 of 0.45 pence per share – 
an increase of 50%. This dividend is covered
approximately 2.8 times by Arena’s 2005
earnings of 1.24 pence per share. The board
has determined that, based upon the
opportunities that lie ahead for Arena, it is
prudent to maintain this level of cover for the
foreseeable future. In addition, over a period 
of time, Arena will implement a policy in 
which around one-third of the anticipated total
dividend is declared with the interim results,
with the balance of around two-thirds declared
as a ﬁnal dividend.
Racecourse division
Arena’s six racecourses staged a record of 
324 ﬁxtures in 2005 (2004: 315), representing
24% of the UK horseracing ﬁxture list.
These ﬁxtures featured a total of 2,172 races,
equating to 25% of the UK total. The increase 
in ﬁxtures was attributable to the high number
of ﬁxtures held at our three All Weather tracks
and the staging of a number of ﬂat and national
hunt ﬁxtures transferred from Ascot during the
latter’s redevelopment. Lingﬁeld Park was host
to a total of 95 ﬁxtures.
Ladbrokes sponsorship
During 2005 Arena was delighted 
to introduce Ladbrokes as the
principal sponsor of the St Leger
festival at Doncaster
Lingﬁeld Park attendance
Improved facilities at Lingﬁeld Park
contributed to the growth in race-
day attendance 6 Arena Leisure Plc Annual Report 2005
Our core skill – venue management
Through our venue management skills we aim to deliver a quality service 
that provides a high level of customer satisfaction at all types of event;
we aim to ensure that our customers enjoy the experience of a day at the races. Arena Leisure Plc Annual Report 2005 7 8 Arena Leisure Plc Annual Report 2005
Chief Executive’ s review continued
In the more traditional areas of racecourse
operation, Arena continued to excel with turf
management given its usual high priority .
It was just reward for the small and dedicated
team of ground staff at Folkestone that they
were awarded runner -up status for dual-
purpose racecourses (ﬂat and jump) in the
Neil Wyatt Ground staff awards.
Outside racing,Wolverhampton remained 
one of the busiest racecourses in Britain. Its
hotel operation, the Holiday Inn Garden Court,
achieved record occupancy levels and, in 
the second quarter of 2005, achieved the
distinction of being awarded the best overall
score for guest satisfaction of all hotels within
the Intercontinental Hotel Group in Europe,
Middle East and Africa. The conference and
exhibition business also continued to expand.
Both Lingﬁeld Park and Royal Windsor
racecourses held popular ﬁreworks displays 
in November, attracting large audiences from
the local community . Southwell racecourse 
was the second of Arena’s racecourses (after
Wolverhampton) to be awarded Investors in
People accreditation.
Industry matters
Future funding of racing
In 2004, the UK Government passed an 
Act abolishing the statutory Levy on the
understanding that an alternative source of
funding for the UK horseracing industry had
been found through the BHB selling pre-race
data to bookmakers. However, the ruling
handed down by the European Court of Justice
(‘ECJ’) in November 2004 and upheld by the
Court of Appeal in the BHB and Others v
William Hill in July 2005 prevented the selling
of pre-race data as a method of funding racing.
In 2005, Arena entered into its second
agreement with BAGS for the distribution 
of racing pictures to licensed betting ofﬁces
(‘LBOs’). This extends through to the end 
of 2009 and is a key agreement for Arena,
generating a signiﬁcant proportion of our
turnover. However, in this new agreement,
the amount paid for ‘regional races’
decreased. Regional racing provides ﬁxtures
that are restricted to horses with a maximum
rating of 45–50. Arena staged over 300
regional races in 2004 and 2005 and the new ,
reduced tariff had a negative impact on the
level of BAGS income received in 2005 of
around £0.6m. Arena continues to work with
the British Horseracing Board (‘BHB’) and
other sectors of the racing industry to seek 
a means by which the current system of
regional races can be improved.
As part of Arena’s drive towards greater
efﬁciency and due to the scale of our operations
as the UK’s leading operator of horseracing
ﬁxtures, Arena reviewed where cost savings
could be made and services brought in-
house, thereby avoiding the need for extensive
set-up costs on each race-day . As a result, the
‘photoﬁnish’ and ‘starting stalls’ operations
were taken over in 2005 and the ‘camera
patrol’ operation taken over in early 2006. In all
these areas of operation, it was determined
that the service could be provided much more
efﬁciently through the investment in our own,
racecourse-based staff and equipment, and
has been achieved without impacting on the
quality of the service provided.
Outside of racing,W olverhampton 
remained one of the busiest racecourses 
in Britain.Its Holiday Inn hotel achieved
record occupancy levels in 2005.
W olverhampton Racecourse
Holiday Inn
Scored top marks for guest
satisfaction in 2005
Excellence in turf management
The Folkestone ground staff team
achieved recognition in the racing
industry ground staff awards for 2005 Arena Leisure Plc Annual Report 2005 9
Ofﬁce of Fair Trading (‘OFT’)
During 2005 the OFT announced that it was
closing its investigation into British racing.
During the lengthy investigation, the BHB 
had produced a blueprint for the future of
British racing entitled the Modernisation 
of British Racing (‘MBR’). Although the MBR
became redundant with the ECJ ruling,
a number of its recommendations to bring
racing into a more commercial era remain
valid. Recommendations which continue 
to be pursued or have already become
established are:
• The establishment of a competitive bidding
system whereby racecourses can acquire
leasehold ﬁxtures. In the bidding for 2006
ﬁxtures (carried out in June 2005), Arena
acquired 66 ﬁxtures on a one-year lease
and relinquished 73. This represented 
an overall improvement in our racing
programme due to the higher quality of the
new ﬁxtures. A similar bidding process will
take place in mid-2006 for 2007 ﬁxtures,
when Arena will again seek to improve 
the quality of its leasehold ﬁxture list.
As a result of the likely arrival of new 
All Weather courses in 2006, there will 
most likely be increased competition 
for these ﬁxtures, potentially reducing 
the number that Arena may obtain.
• Establishing a system for the distribution 
of Levy income whereby a racecourse
receives income in proportion to the
amount of either betting turnover or 
betting proﬁt that its ﬁxtures generate
(‘hypothecation’).With the expectation 
that this system is in place by 2009, it is 
the intention that the racing industry and
bookmakers increase the emphasis on
betting revenue in the distribution of
income from 2007.
• Creation of a ‘development fund’ to
incentivise racecourses to put on races
which are necessary for the development
of young racehorses and the improvement
of the thoroughbred.
A committee was set up under the
chairmanship of Lord Donoughue to
investigate an alternative means of funding
racing. This committee, the Future Funding 
of Racing Review Group (‘FFRRG’) made an
interim report in March 2005 recommending
that the Levy should remain in place until 2009.
FFRRG reported its full ﬁndings to the Minister
for Sport in December 2005, recommending
that further investigation should be conducted
into replacing the Levy with a commercial
system based on the pooling and sale of all
racing’s rights – pictures and pre-race data –
by the racecourses to the bookmakers’ central
purchasing agent for the UK and Irish markets.
In the event that legal obstacles prevented a
purely commercial solution, FFRRG would also
investigate the possibilities of a hybrid solution
whereby there is some form of statutory
backing for a commercial arrangement. There
are very many hurdles to be overcome before
a commercial mechanism is determined, not
least the issue of irrecoverable VAT at 17.5%
on any payments made under a commercial
arrangement. Currently , such a cost does not
arise under the statutory Levy system.
FFRRG recommended that, in order to
implement a commercial arrangement,
‘Newco’ should be set up to be the 
entity responsible for the collection and
redistribution of the funds received through
the sale of racing’s rights. Newco would be
jointly owned by the UK racecourses and the
Horsemen’s Group (a group set up by the
Racehorse Owners’ Association comprising
those bodies in racing whose primary interest
in racing’s ﬁnances lie with prize money).
It also recommended the combination of the
two current bodies dealing with regulation and
governance functions into one new body .
Arena fully supports both the ‘Newco’
and single governing/regulatory body
recommendations. The UK Government is
currently considering the FFRRG’s report.
Gambling Act 2005
The Gambling Act 2005 provides for the
relaxation of opening hours for licensed
betting ofﬁces and it is the Government’s
intention to see the full implementation of the
Gambling Act by the third quarter of 2007.
The potential for the evening opening of
betting shops in the latter part of 2007 should
allow for an expansion of the ﬁxture list to
provide further evening racing – a move 
that Arena supports and would expect to
beneﬁt from.
Camera patrol
In the drive for improved efﬁciency
the race-day camera operation was
brought in-house in February 2006 10 Arena Leisure Plc Annual Report 2005
Delivering proﬁt
Our business continues to seek better and mor e efﬁcient utilisation of our assets;
improving our ﬁxture list, growing attendance and developing non-racing
activities. Arena is focused on driving a stronger and more proﬁtable business. Arena Leisure Plc Annual Report 2005 11 12 Arena Leisure Plc Annual Report 2005
Chief Executive’ s review continued
UK and Irish meetings. All of these racecourses
have chosen to sign with ATR in order to
beneﬁt from the widespread exposure of the
sport that ATR provides. This enhances their
on-course sponsorship and advertising,
enhances levy generation and provides them
with payments from ATR via their media rights
agreements – agreements that directly relate
to the income derived from the broadcast of
races to the host track.
Given the popularity of UK racing outside the
domestic market and ATR’s commitment to
grow this further, ATR also derives revenues
from an international business, broadcasting 
to over 20 countries through ATR International.
These revenues come from the established
ﬁxed odds betting territories such as the
Caribbean and Sri Lanka, and also from
existing and emerging pari-mutuel betting
territories such as Italy , Russia, Eastern 
Europe and the USA. Through an agreement 
entered into in March 2005 with the UK Tote,
international customers are able to place 
bets on races from ATR courses which are
commingled into the UK Tote pools. To date,
more than £10m has been commingled into
on-course Tote pools through this route. ATR
earns a commission on these bets, and our
racecourses also beneﬁt from increased
liquidity of the domestic Tote pools.
In addition to its UK and Irish coverage, ATR
also shows quality racing from around the
world, including from France, Japan, Australia
and the USA. Between two and four US race
meetings are currently shown each evening,
with ATR generating commissions from bets
placed with UK bookmakers that are
commingled into the US pools.
At The Races
Arena owns a valuable portfolio of media
rights in the form of the races staged at its
courses. This value is delivered through 
At The Races (‘ATR’), a joint venture in which
Arena has a 47.5% shareholding, together with
BSkyB (47.5%) and Ascot Racecourse (5%).
ATR is committed to maximising the value 
of the media rights licensed to it by its
racecourse partners. It achieves this by
making its partners’ racing product as widely
available as possible, both domestically 
and internationally , thereby growing the
popularity of UK and Irish racing. ATR is not 
a bookmaker, acting instead as a facilitator 
for bets to be placed with its betting partners
and driving ancillary revenues. At The 
Races generates more than £2m per week 
in turnover for its betting partners from
interactive red button betting on the Sky
platform alone. An interactive betting service 
is also available on NTL.
ATR now has media rights agreements with 
29 UK racecourses. This follows the conclusion
of a media rights agreement with Doncaster
Metropolitan Borough Council in December
that gives ATR exclusive domestic and
international rights to at least 25 of Doncaster’s
transferred ﬁxtures throughout 2006 and early
2007 and, from the re-opening of Doncaster
Racecourse in time for the Ladbrokes St Leger
in September 2007, exclusivity across the
entire Doncaster ﬁxture list. These agreements
provide ATR with the exclusive right to
broadcast around 55% of all UK ﬁxtures.
In addition, ATR also has exclusive rights to
broadcast racing from all 27 Irish racecourses
and thereby over 250 Irish horseracing ﬁxtures
a year. In 2005, ATR broadcast more than 1,000
At The Races
Taking racing to a wider audience
in the UK and internationally ,
on a range of media platforms
St Leger
In December 2005 ATR concluded
an agreement to broadcast racing
from Doncaster racecourse, including
the Ladbroke St Leger from 2007
At The Races is committed to broadcasting
racing to the widest possible audience 
and to maximising the value of racecourse
media rights. Arena Leisure Plc Annual Report 2005 13
ATR recently launched an online odds
comparison service, Best Odds, that provides
viewers with a one-stop shop in which they 
can see the options available for the bet they
wish to make, place a bet and then proceed 
to watch racing live. The comparator allows the
customer to compare the odds being offered
by 15 betting partners, including leading ﬁxed
odds bookmakers, Tote pools and betting
exchange Betfair.
A key to the long-term growth of ATR is its
ability to maximise its revenue from new
channels of distribution. In 2005, At The Races
3G was launched to a potential audience of 
six million subscribers on the 3 and Vodafone
video mobile networks. All the channel’s
previews, news, analysis and UK and Irish
horseracing content can be seen as a live
broadcast with full commentary . ATR is also
part of Sky Mobile TV , a joint venture between
Vodafone and BSkyB to bring live TV to 3G.
ATR is one of 19 channels available on the
package. Mobile TV is an exciting new
proposition and one in which horseracing can
achieve a strong audience. ATR’s distribution
on mobile platforms will continue to roll out
across all mobile networks, including in
Ireland, and the addition of enhanced betting
and research functionality is expected in 
due course.
2006 has started well for ATR. ATR is in 
a strong ﬁnancial and operational position 
and is well positioned to build further on the
successes achieved in 2005. A key objective
will be to secure greater international
distribution. One of the main ways that this 
can be achieved is by persuading the UK
horseracing industry of the beneﬁts of
extending 48-hour declarations to all UK ﬂat
racing. This will allow UK racing to attempt to
compete with its international counterparts 
on a level playing ﬁeld and thereby maximise
the revenue potential for UK horseracing in
overseas markets.
Developments
Arena constantly strives to improve the
facilities that it provides for its customers. Over
the last ﬁve years, Arena has invested around
£24m into racecourse improvements. These
have included new All Weather racing surfaces
at Wolverhampton, Lingﬁeld and Southwell,
major refurbishments of the grandstands at
Lingﬁeld and Folkestone, improved access 
at Royal Windsor, the purchase of two ‘giant
screens’ for added viewing enjoyment,
together with a large number of small projects
all contributing to the enjoyment of Arena’s
racing product.
Overall, ATR experienced signiﬁcant growth 
in 2005. ATR’s operating loss (before legal
costs) was £2.0m. Importantly , within this, over 
£1.6m was paid or is payable to its racecourse
partners in the form of media rights payments.
This brings the total generated since ATR’s
launch in June 2004 to over £2.2m.
During 2005, the ATR television channel was
ofﬁcially recognised by the Broadcasters’
Audience Research Bureau as the UK and
Ireland’s most watched dedicated horseracing
channel, with 1.2m different individuals tuning
in every month to the channel, with an average
of 40,000–50,000 people watching at any time
during live racing. The channel also had an
average daily audience reach of over 200,000
different individuals. On one day alone,
over 360,000 different individuals tuned 
into the channel.
ATR’s aim of growing the popularity of UK and
Irish racing at home and abroad is achieved 
by the channel being free to view within basic
subscription packages. So, rather than its
viewers paying an additional subscription,
thereby limiting the racing audience, ATR
generates advertising revenue. On an
annualised basis compared to 2004,
advertising and sponsorship revenues in 
2005 grew by over 240%.With effect from 
1 January 2006, Sky Media, the advertising
sales division of BSkyB and the biggest media
sales operation within the domestic multichannel
marketplace, was appointed to handle all
advertising sales in the UK and Ireland. In
2006, it is anticipated that ATR will be able 
to both grow its advertising revenue further
and improve the quality of advertising that 
the channel attracts. So far in 2006, brand
count, which reﬂects the number of different
advertisers buying airtime on ATR, is up 
year on year by more than 50%.
ATR’s website, attheraces.com, has
established itself as the number two domestic
horseracing website, with nearly 300,000
monthly unique users and over 20 million
monthly page impressions. In January 2006,
it streamed over 240,000 live and archive
video streams.
The development of ATR’s distribution
opportunities included the launch of an online
streaming service, ‘Bet and Watch’. This is now
available on six bookmaker partner websites
and enables customers to watch high quality
video streaming once they have placed a bet
on an ATR broadcast race, with ATR earning 
a commission. ATR has seen double-digit
percentage growth of downloaded streams on
a monthly basis since launch. Agreements are
in place for the roll-out of this product across 
a number of additional bookmaker websites.
The big picture
At The Races is watched by 1.2 million
individual viewers per month
throughout the UK and Ireland
ATR website
In January 2006 the ATR website
streamed over 240,000 live and
archive video streams 14 Arena Leisure Plc Annual Report 2005
Building for the future
Doncaster Racecourse is one of the UK’s premier racing venues and 
home to the world’s oldest classic horserace, the St Leger. The £32 million 
re-development that is underway will ensure that it ranks amongst the 
top racecourses in the country . Arena Leisure Plc Annual Report 2005 15 16 Arena Leisure Plc Annual Report 2005
Chief Executive’ s review continued
Arena had been in discussions with the
racecourse’s owner, Doncaster Metropolitan
Borough Council (the ‘Council’), for some 
time and, in 2005, managed the racecourse 
on its behalf receiving a fee of £0.5m.
A redevelopment of the racecourse was 
the agreed route forward as, although the
racecourse regularly attracts attendances in
excess of 200,000 per year to its 29 meetings,
in recent years, the facilities have, in places,
become somewhat tired and dated.
In December, agreement was reached for 
an Arena subsidiary to acquire the rights 
to redevelop and operate Doncaster
Racecourse on a 99-year lease, commencing
upon completion of the redevelopment. Arena
owns 81% of this subsidiary , with the Council
owning the remaining 19%. Importantly , over
the ﬁrst 30 years of the racecourse’s operation
following its redevelopment, Arena will 
receive 92.5% of the proﬁts, with the Council
receiving the balance.
This agreement followed the receipt in
November 2005 of detailed planning
permission for the redevelopment of the
racecourse. The outdated Y orkshire Stand 
and exhibition hall will be demolished and
replaced by a state-of-the-art grandstand 
and new conference and exhibition facilities.
These will provide Doncaster’s customers with
the quality of accommodation that they should
expect from such a prestigious racecourse.
Elsewhere around the racecourse, there will
be a refurbishment of the adjacent St Leger
Stand and construction of a new stable block
next to the racecourse and an adjoining new
stable lads’ hostel.
This is an ongoing process. In 2005, £0.5m 
was spent replacing an outdated weighing
room at Southwell with a new and enlarged
building, providing improved facilities for
jockeys and ofﬁcials and also owners and
trainers, all of whom have warmly welcomed
the improvements.
In 2006, work has also started on the
construction of a new golf clubhouse at
Southwell to replace the outdated existing
building at an estimated cost of £0.6m, and
major work has started at Worcester to
undertake a refurbishment of the grandstand
and to provide new stables. The cost of the
Worcester project is around £1.25m. These 
two projects largely complete the overhaul 
of the facilities that Arena has acquired and,
as a result, the level of expenditure on more
‘routine’ capital projects should now have
reached a relatively stable level. One further
project that started this year is the ‘camera
patrol’ project mentioned earlier. At a cost of
around £1.0m, bringing this important function
in-house will yield cost savings of around
£0.25m per year.
Over the coming years, assuming that the
appropriate planning permissions are
received, capital expenditure will now 
be focused on major revenue enhancing
projects. The ﬁrst of these projects that will
come to fruition is the redevelopment of
Doncaster Racecourse.
Doncaster Racecourse is one of the UK’s major
racecourses, hosting the opening race of the
ﬂat racing season, as well as the last classic 
of the season – the 229-year old St Leger
Festival. The St Leger is currently sponsored
by Ladbrokes and is the oldest classic
horserace in the world.
Southwell Golf Club
A new clubhouse is under
construction that will dramatically
improve the golﬁng facilities
Doncaster Racecourse
Artist’s impression of the new
grandstand and exhibition centre
now under construction
Arena continues to progress a number 
of exciting development opportunities at its
courses including the re-development of
Doncaster Racecourse which commenced 
in January 2006. Arena Leisure Plc Annual Report 2005 17
The redevelopment commenced in January
2006 and is expected to last around 19 months,
with the racecourse re-opening in time for the
Ladbrokes St Leger meeting in September
2007. The 2006 St Leger meeting will take
place at Y ork, with the majority of Doncaster’s
remaining ﬁxtures transferred around the
Arena group.
Arena’s aim is to return Doncaster Racecourse
to its position as one of the UK’s pre-eminent
racecourses. In total, the redevelopment will
cost around £32m, of which Arena will be
providing around £28m, mainly in the form 
of guarantees for bank loans.
Following the agreement, Arena will receive 
no further management fees; instead 
incurring costs as the remainder of the
racecourse is maintained and stafﬁng levels
begin to increase towards the end of the 
year in anticipation of the re-opening of the
racecourse in 2007.
Work has also commenced on developing 
a planning application for a second phase
development – a hotel and residential
development on land adjacent to the
racecourse. It is hoped that this will be
submitted later this year.
Arena also looks to develop new or expanded
revenue streams from its existing racecourses.
Unfortunately , the ﬁrst such project, a casino
and hotel expansion as part of Arena’s attempt
to maintain and develop its Wolverhampton
Racecourse, was rejected in July by the Ofﬁce
of the Deputy Prime Minister, despite support
by Wolverhampton City Council. The
development was viewed as negatively
impacting upon the ‘openness’ of the Green
Belt location in which it is situated. Arena
awaited W olverhampton’ s revised Unitary
Development Plan to see whether the
racecourse would be removed from the 
Green Belt, thereby signiﬁcantly improving 
the chances of a successful re-application.
It now appears likely that the racecourse is 
to remain within the Green Belt and so we are
currently re-evaluating our options. As a result,
we have written off as a charge to operating
proﬁt in 2005 £0.4m of the expenditure
incurred on the original ‘racino’ design.
Nevertheless, we remain determined to
progress with a regeneration of the racecourse
involving the expansion of the hotel, together
with complementary leisure facilities.
The submission of a detailed planning
application for a redeveloped grandstand and
new hotel at our Royal Windsor Racecourse
has been awaiting the outcome of a feasibility
report into our ﬁnancial justiﬁcation for the
development, commissioned by The Royal
Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead. This
report has only recently been completed 
by the Borough’s independent consultants.
Lingﬁeld Park development
Artist’s impression of the proposed
integrated leisure building at
Lingﬁeld Park; incorporating racing,
hotel, golf and leisure facilities
Lingﬁeld Park masterplan
Proposed consolidation and
improvement of the operational
core of the racecourse
The report, in part necessitated by the
considerable sensitivity of development on
Green Belt land, appears broadly supportive 
of the need for the proposed scheme.We await
the Borough’s reaction to the report. In the
meantime, we will complete our work on 
the preparation of the detailed planning
application in readiness for its submission
shortly .We hope that this development, which
is essential to safeguard this important leisure
facility in Windsor, will receive local authority
approval. However, due to a number of factors,
Royal Windsor Racecourse is a sensitive site in
planning terms and so the processes that must
be completed in order to present a realistic
possibility of achieving full planning consent
are considerably more onerous than might
otherwise be expected. This development,
should it receive planning permission, is
expected to cost in the region of £38m.
Following the refurbishment of the main
grandstand and provision of a new All Weather
track within the last three years, it is anticipated
that Lingﬁeld Park Racecourse will submit an
outline planning application in March 2006 to
demolish two redundant stands and to replace
them with a new integrated leisure building.
This new building, to be known as the Silks, will
incorporate improved racing administration
and entertaining facilities, a greatly improved
leisure club with a pool, a new 120-bedroom
hotel and a new replacement golf clubhouse.
The redevelopment, subject to it receiving
planning permission, is expected to cost
around £25m and will dramatically improve
Lingﬁeld Park, allowing it to compete with the
extensive competition from other developing
racecourses in the south-east region.
I am hopeful of a positive outcome as the
redevelopment also involves the removal of
numerous smaller buildings from around the
racecourse and so will allow the return of 
a sizeable area of currently developed land
back to Green Belt. The process to date has
included an extensive consultation exercise,
including a recent public exhibition.We 
will continue to work closely with all local
stakeholders to help ensure that this exciting
development has the best possible chance 
of success.
Arena Leisure possesses a number of 
exciting growth opportunities and I am
optimistic that the Company is now well 
placed to deliver them.
Mark Elliott
Chief Executive
28 February 2006 
