 06 | Arena Leisure Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review
The core elements of value in the business are:
The racing content that we license to bookmakers
both in the UK through our contract with BAGS,
and from 2012 with SIS, and internationally
through At The Races. Arena’s product is unique
to UK racing with our seven racecourses
accounting for over one-quarter of all UK
horseracing and able to supply live content
throughout the year, throughout the day and 
into the evening.
The cash-generative operational business 
has remained consistently profitable through 
a difficult trading market and has continued 
to develop both in terms of operating margins
and in the quality and variety of product that 
we offer our customers.
The securing of planning consents and the
subsequent development of leisure assets on 
our racecourses has seen Doncaster Racecourse
fully redeveloped and reopened in 2007 and will
see the Lingfield Park Marriott hotel and leisure
project complete in the early part of 2010. Other
future projects for which we have planning
permission include the Wolverhampton ‘racino’
and the Doncaster hotel and residential scheme.
The realisation of the value of surplus land. 
This includes good potential for a successful
residential planning application at Folkestone
Racecourse as part of a comprehensive
redevelopment of the Racecourse and the recent
disposals of smaller non-core land assets at
Royal Windsor and Lingfield Park Racecourses.
Transformational media rights deal
We were delighted to enter into a long-term media rights
agreement with Satellite Information Services Ltd (‘SIS’) for the
provision of racing content to Licence Betting Offices (‘LBOs’) in
the UK and Ireland. The agreement will replace Arena’s current
contract with Bookmakers’ Afternoon Greyhound Services Ltd
at its expiry on 31 December 2011 and has a term of five years
to 31 December 2016. Total revenues receivable by Arena
under the agreement are estimated by the Board to be
£106m, significantly in excess of the revenues receivable
under the exiting five-year contract which are estimated 
by the Board at £55m. Arena received an initial advanced
payment from SIS of £12.5m upon signing of the agreement.
Two further advance payments of £12.5m and £7.0m will be
paid to Arena on 22 July 2010 and 22 July 2011 respectively,
upon the provision of security by Arena. The balance of the
estimated revenues will be receivable by Arena throughout
the five-year term of the agreement on a per race basis.
This agreement has secured an important revenue stream
for Arena and reflects the substantial value of the Group’s
media rights product by virtue of its unique composition 
of all year round racing. The new contract will lead to a
substantial uplift in profitability from our media rights from
2012 and the advanced payments have allowed us to reduce
Arena’s net borrowings.
Evolving our operating business
The performance of Arena’s racecourses in 2009, through
difficult trading conditions, has demonstrated the robust and
cash-generative nature of the business. Revenues for the
year increased to £65.2m (2008: £64.8m), with income from
the Levy prize money funding increasing to £21.7m (2008:
£19.0m) and income from the BAGS media rights increasing
to £11.6m (2008: £10.4m). Profit before tax increased by 
3% to £4.1m (2008: £4.0m). 
With racecourses at the heart of our business, Arena provides
a range of products and services to a broadening customer
base. The core raceday experience provides a unique sporting
occasion with excellent facilities serving the full range 
of retail and private and corporate hospitality customers.
Similarly, a wide customer range is catered for as a result 
of the diversification of our offering into a variety of leisure
and hospitality related products – including hotels, golf,
banqueting, conferences and exhibitions. We have created
value through the successful establishment of our own 
Chief Executive’s Statement
Delivering the strategy
With horseracing at the heart of its business, Arena has continued 
to evolve multiple sources of value creation. 
Mark Elliott Chief Executive Business Review
Arena Leisure Plc | 07
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
in-house catering operation in 2007 which services all of 
our leisure offerings and has the capacity for further profit
growth as hospitality markets return. In due course we
believe this business will offer a service to third parties,
creating another value stream and we are currently
evaluating this opportunity.
The ongoing profitability, combined with the restructuring
undertaken over the last few years, leaves Arena very well
placed to benefit from improving economic circumstances.
Profitability and operating cash flow will be further enhanced
from 2012 as a result of the new media rights contract 
with SIS.
Developing our estate
Arena has a proven track record in obtaining planning
consent and subsequently developing leisure assets on 
its racecourses. 
Most recently, our development focus has been on the
Lingfield Park hotel and leisure scheme which commenced
construction in May 2008 and is on schedule to be fully
operational by May 2010. This scheme, which incorporates 
a 116 bedroom 4-star hotel, a health club and spa as well 
as a new golf clubhouse, will be branded as a Marriott Hotel
and Country Club. The complementary nature of this asset 
to Lingfield Park is central to our development strategy
allowing us to exploit synergies in operations, notably in
catering, and to maximise the existing facilities which include
a championship standard golf course, and extensively
refurbished conference and meeting suites.
Arena continues to progress two other major projects which
have planning consent: 
• At Wolverhampton Racecourse, the ‘racino’ scheme will
involve a partial redevelopment of the site to incorporate 
a casino and an extension of the existing hotel from 56
bedrooms to 170. This scheme has planning consent but 
is dependent upon the grant of a small casino licence from
Wolverhampton City Council, which was granted the right to
award a licence in May 2008. Since then, progress by central
and local government in enacting the tender process for
such licences has been slow. Recent indications are that 
a formal process could commence in 2010 for completion
in 2011 or 2012. We remain keen to tender for the licence
and to undertake this major development opportunity. 
• At Doncaster Racecourse, planning consent is in place for 
a 120-bedroom hotel and 34 residential units. The Board
remains confident that this is a commercially attractive
opportunity that will provide a highly complementary asset
to the Racecourse operation, particularly as the current
grandstand facilities provide 3,400m
2
of exhibition space
that is rapidly establishing itself as a major venue for trade
shows and other events. 
In addition to these schemes, we consider that there is
opportunity to significantly further enhance the facilities at
Royal Windsor Racecourse and we continue to work with our
planning advisors on proposals that will both improve the
Racecourse facilities and meet the requirements of the local
‘Green Belt’.
Realising value from surplus land
Good progress has been made on our strategy for the
utilisation of surplus land at Folkestone Racecourse based
on a part residential and part leisure development and 
which will involve a comprehensive redevelopment of the
Racecourse. The Racecourse has been included in Shepway
Council’s Local Development Framework – Core Strategy
Preferred Options document. In this, the Racecourse is
recommended for a high-quality mixed-use development 
that would improve, and hence secure the future of, the
Racecourse and provide a site for at least 400 new homes.
This project has the potential to be significant in realising
value from surplus land. 
On a smaller scale, in November 2009, a small plot of land 
at Lingfield Park, that was previously the site of an unused
leisure club, was sold realising a net gain of £0.4m. In 2008,
the sale of the marina and caravan park freeholds at Royal
Windsor Racecourse realised a gain of £1.7m. We continue 
to explore the potential for opportunistic realisation of value
from the Group’s assets in this way.
Mark Elliott
Chief Executive
26 February 2010
Business Review 08 | Arena Leisure Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review
With racecourses at the 
heart of our business, 
Arena provides a range 
of products and services 
to a broadening customer
base from our 365 days 
a year operations.
