 06 Arena Leisure Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Building operational excellence
In 2010 we continued to make 
good progress in all areas of 
our strategy whilst maintaining 
our focus on racing operations 
and further expanding our other 
income sources.
Operating overview
Operating results for the year ended 31 December 2010  
were encouraging in an environment that was heavily 
in uenced by external factors, including the continued 
challenging economic conditions; the pressures on funding 
caused by the reduced Levy yield from bookmakers; and the 
extreme weather conditions in both the early and later parts 
of the year. Despite these challenges, we have been able to 
increase underlying adjusted pro t before interest and tax*  
by 10.4% to £5.4m (2009: £4.9m). In so doing, we have 
increased the pro t contribution from racecourse operations 
by 3.8% to £7.2m (2009: £7.0m)**. ATR has shown excellent 
growth and contributed £1.4m to Arena through our 45.85% 
equity share (2009: £0.5m).
We have been able to improve average attendances, 
hospitality revenues and catering pro ts in 2010. The 
raceday experience that we offer continues to evolve with our 
high-quality catering offering proving an ever more important 
element in differentiating our raceday customer experience. 
Themed racedays, whether the more traditional ‘Ladies Day’  
or newer ‘Racing and Music’ nights, ‘Family Fundays’ or  
other speci c events, have proved increasingly popular.  
These events not only provide a broader appeal for the 
race-goer but also allow us to target our marketing activities 
in a consumer-speci c way. We have further plans for 2011 
to build on this success with additional themed days and an 
evolution of our marketing approach, including online through 
our website and social media channels, as well as with 
greater customer relationship management.
Arena’s racing operations are recognised for their quality 
and for the professionalism and dedication of our racing 
staff. These strengths, combined with the exibility of our 
three all-weather racecourses, enabled the Group to stage 
352 xtures in the year across our seven racecourses, 
including during periods of severe adverse weather. During 
December 2010, 48% of scheduled UK racing was lost to 
the weather conditions. However, Arena staged the expected 
number of xtures with six abandonments being replaced with 
six extra xtures at short notice. In total, we lost 18 xtures 
in the year (2009: eight) and staged 14 extra xtures at short 
notice (2009: four). The net impact of December’s weather 
conditions on Arena’s pro t was a £0.3m reduction as a result 
of a 14,000 fall in total attendance compared to the prior year 
and a number of cancelled non-racing meetings and events.
Our in-house catering operation is fully integrated into each 
racecourse, allowing us to utilise synergies across each site 
and align revenue generation. On a Group-wide basis we are 
able to leverage expertise through shared resources and 
purchasing power through national supplier contracts. Quality 
of product and service, one of the key drivers of our in-house 
strategy, has continued to improve from an already high level. 
On 10 February 2011, we announced that Arena had 
successfully tendered to The London Organising Committee  
of The Olympic Games and Paralympic Games (‘LOCOG’) and 
had been awarded the contract to provide catering services at 
both the Eton Dorney and the Greenwich Park venues as part 
of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2012. Eton Dorney 
will be home to the sprint canoeing and rowing events and 
Greenwich Park will be home to the equestrian and modern 
pentathlon events. The contract contains elements of both 
 xed income and variable income that is dependent upon the 
numbers of attendees and spend per head and the Board 
Chief Executive’s Statement
Mark Elliott
Chief Executive
2010 highlights
  352 xtures staged, representing 25%  
of UK racing
 Average attendance increased by 4.2%
  Hospitality attendance increased by 17.1%
  Ling eld Park Marriott Hotel and Country 
Club opened in May 2010
  Masterplan proposal for the redevelopment 
of Folkestone Racecourse submitted
  ATR pro t contribution increased by 163%
*  Adjusted to exclude gains on the disposal of assets  
(2010: £nil, 2009: £0.4m).
**  Before the impact of pre-opening costs of the Ling eld Park Marriott 
Hotel development of £0.5m (2009: £0.2m). Overview
Arena Leisure Plc 07 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
refurbishment of the weighing room and jockeys’ facilities. 
This rst phase project is expected to cost £1.0m and 
complete in time for the 2011 racing season.
Industry funding
Reductions in funding from the Levy are having a major impact 
on racecourses and all participants in the racing industry. The 
yield from the Levy on bookmakers has fallen from £75.4m 
in 2009/10 to an estimated £64.8m in 2010/11, with a 
consequent impact on the funds distributed to racing. Arena 
suffered a reduction in funding for 2010 which had a £0.3m 
pro t impact through reduced direct incentive payments and 
prize money contributions, which were then supplemented 
by Arena. As previously announced, the impact on 2011 is 
more signi cant, with further reductions to xture incentive 
payments of £0.8m and reductions in payments to support 
operational running costs of £0.7m, both of which will directly 
impact pro t. The Levy Board has also taken the unusual step 
of making certain xtures available with either no or partial 
funding for prize money. Arena has secured 48 partially funded 
 xtures and 36 xtures with no funding for prize money which, 
whilst each of these will still be pro table and are important in 
maintaining our xture list, will be consequently less pro table 
than fully funded xtures.
The racing industry and bookmakers failed to reach agreement 
on the form of the Levy scheme for 2011/12 and so it was 
referred to Government for ‘determination’. On 16 February 
2011, a statement from the Minister responsible set out the 
new terms. These are estimated to deliver a yield of £73.7m 
to £80.8m, which would be above the level of the current 
2011 budgeted Levy expenditure of £60.0m. Our expectation 
is that this uplift will predominantly bene t prize money, which 
will assist in improving race programmes and/or Levy Board 
reserves, and will therefore have minimal short-term impact 
on racecourse pro tability. Over the medium term it will help 
to protect growth. Maintenance of the Levy in a revised form 
is considered important by the Arena Board and in the medium 
term we will seek a solution that addresses offshore operators 
and betting exchanges and their customers that have so far 
not been addressed by the current ‘determination’.
Outlook
Despite a challenging trading environment, Arena’s core 
business moved forward successfully in 2010. Improved 
average racecourse attendances, together with good 
development of ATR’s international media rights business, 
have helped to mitigate the continuing pressure on hospitality 
spend and the impact of reduced industry funding. The 
Review of Operations on page 19 provides further details. 
Arena remains well placed with its increasingly diversi ed 
income streams, notably through in-house catering, ATR 
media distribution and the Ling eld Park Marriott Hotel. 
However, due to the signi cant reduction in Levy yield we 
expect another challenging year and, on that basis, we do 
not anticipate material overall growth in 2011. Trading in 
the current year to date is in line with these expectations. 
With the signi cant successes achieved over the last few 
years, the prospects for 2012 are signi cantly brighter.
Mark Elliott 
Chief Executive 
7 March 2011
currently estimates that Arena’s 2012 net pro t contribution 
from the contract will be in the range of £0.5m to £1.0m.
Media rights
Arena licenses the right to use the media content of racing 
from its racecourses through two main channels: to LBOs 
in the UK and Ireland and internationally, online and via 
non-terrestrial TV, through ATR. Revenue from these rights 
amounted to £13.6m (2009: £13.0m) and represents 21.3% 
of total revenue (2009: 19.9%). 
The Group has secured 353 scheduled xtures for 2011  
and we have a reasonable expectation that we will be able 
to secure a similar xture list for 2012 and beyond. Each 
of these xtures will generate income from the LBO market 
which, from 1 January 2012, will arise pursuant to a new 
 ve-year contract with SIS. The Board has estimated that this 
new contract will have a total value of £106.0m over its term, 
which compares to the current ve-year contract that will have 
delivered an estimated £55.6m of income to Arena between 
2007 and 2011. Advanced payments of £12.5m were 
received by Arena on both 22 July 2009 and 22 July 2010.  
A third payment of £7.0m is due on 22 July 2011. The balance 
of the estimated revenue is due over the ve-year term and 
is linked to the number of races run at Arena’s racecourses.
Real estate development
Arena has been successful in achieving planning permissions 
and executing developments that both enhance racecourse 
assets and create value from surplus land. During 2010, the 
most recent of these developments was completed and the 
Ling eld Park Marriott Hotel and Country Club opened in May 
after a £30.0m investment.
Arena is also pursuing development projects at four  
other racecourses: 
  In October 2010, Arena submitted its masterplan for 
the redevelopment of Folkestone Racecourse as part of 
SDC’s process for drawing up its new Local Development 
Framework. The proposal safeguards the future of the 
Racecourse via a complete rebuild, funded by the 
introduction of approximately 800 residential units. SDC 
is likely to report in the middle of 2011, after which there 
will be an examination-in-public, which is likely to conclude 
in Spring 2012;
  Wolverhampton Racecourse has planning consent for a 
combined hotel and casino development that extends the 
existing hotel from 54 to 170 bedrooms. This project is 
dependent upon the grant of a small casino licence from 
Wolverhampton City Council. It is anticipated that tender 
applications will be invited for this licence in August 2011, 
with the nal award expected in Summer 2012. We will 
participate in the tender and our belief is that the mixed-use 
scheme of casino, racecourse and an extension to the 
existing hotel will provide a compelling proposition;
  Doncaster Racecourse has planning consent for a 
120-bedroom hotel and 34 residential units. This consent 
was recently extended until mid-2013. The Board remains 
con dent of the commercial viability of this scheme and 
of its complementary nature to the existing facilities; and
  At Royal Windsor Racecourse the rst part of a medium-
term redevelopment programme was commenced with the 
construction of a new entrance building housing of ces 
and a food outlet. There will also be an expansion and 
Chief Executive’s Statement
