 minibh eu feugiat aliquisi 
eliscid uissecte dolorerilit 
la commodo lortincidunt 
ut am adipis doluptat alis 
ad ea faccumsan enim 
etum in eniatet ut nonullan 
ulputetue delenis at, volesto 
core euguer sed sed sed 
dolorperit dolorper in hent ni
f eugiat aliquisi eliscid 
uissecte dolorerilit la 
commodo lortincidunt ut 
am adipis doluptat alis ad ea 
faccumsan
Patsystems    |    Annual Report 2007 04
Chief Executive’s Report
i am delighted to be able to report on a further year of successful 
business development for Patsystems.
In my report for 2006, I stated our ambition to become a key technology 
provider to the electronic trading industry and the results for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2007 demonstrate the success that we have achieved in 
fulfilling that ambition.
Our performance for the year has continued the trend established in 2006 for 
profit growth, with an operating profit of £2.1 million, a 32% growth over last 
year’s £1.6 million.
Revenue has also risen 11% to £17.0 million compared to £15.3 million.
We have continued to contain increases in our cost base, despite significant 
pressure on salary costs in all our key areas of operation, with operating 
expenses being only 9% higher at £14.5 million when compared to 
£13.3 million in 2006.
A fuller analysis of the changes in the cost base is included within the Finance 
Director’s review but the main contributing factors were the planned 
headcount increases. 
trading systems and market Conne Ctivity
t rading systems revenue increased by 7.5% to £14.3 million for the year 
compared to £13.3 million in 2006.
During the year we achieved new customer wins with R J O’Brien & Associates, 
one of the largest independent futures brokerages in the United States 
of America, and The Macquarie Group, the Australian head-quartered 
international provider of banking, financial, advisory and investment services. 
david w ebber 
CHIEF ExECU t IVE Patsystems    |    Annual Report 2007
The addition of Macquarie as a customer was particularly pleasing given that 
our new Global t rading product played an important part in their decision to 
select Patsystems with Macquarie having identified the benefits that its global 
order book and continuous trading provides.
Macquarie represents the first installation of our new Global t rading core and, 
following an initial deployment in Europe, will roll out the systems capabilities 
within their operations in the United States of America, Australia and Asia. 
We will deliver the Global t rading software, and all the other associated 
software services, to Macquarie offices and clients globally by way of a fully 
hosted service.
As part of our commitment to provide customers with further choice of how 
they receive our software services, we have announced the provision of our 
Application Service Provider (“ASP”) solution and the first customer is now live 
on this service.
During the year, our existing customers have added four further installations, 
in Sydney, Singapore and two in Hong Kong, underlining the importance of 
Asia as an area of growth for the business going forward.
In 2008, we expect the main opportunities for further trading systems 
installations and additional screen deployment to be in the emerging market 
economies of South America, the Middle East and Asia, particularly Hong 
Kong, Malaysia and Indonesia.
In July 2007, Pro-Mark version 4.0 was launched with functionality specifically 
designed for energy traders which enables them to access multiple energy 
markets. Version 4.0 followed on from the successful release of version 3.9 
earlier in the year, which provided support for option strategies, best execution 
and advanced charting.
At the start of 2007, the Pro-Mark billable user numbers were 129 and, as  
at 31 December 2007, this has risen to 375. The majority of these users  
are either converts from our major competitors or traders new to  
electronic trading.
During the year the ability to trade foreign exchange in partnership with  
Gain Capital was added to the J-t rader product and charting capability  
was added. 
Patsystems’ global connectivity has been extended with the Chicago Climate 
Futures Exchange, Dubai Mercantile Exchange, Hong Kong Exchanges and 
Clearing and the United States Futures Exchange all being added in 2007. 
There have also been changes to our existing exchange connectivity. All trading 
system customers are now supported through significant upgrades for the 
major exchanges, as well as additional capability, such as the support of carry 
trades on the London Metal Exchange and an extended product set on the 
Chicago Board of Options Futures Exchange.
09
4000
3000
2000
1000
0
t otal exchange volume  
(adv = a verage daily volume)
liffe derivatives 
market – histori Cal 
annual & monthly data
‘05
2955
‘04
3030
‘06
2864
‘07
3722
tHE FOLLOWING GRAPH 
INDICAt ES t HE CONt INUED 
GROWt H AND Ex PANDING 
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENt WIt HIN 
t HE DERIVAt IVES INDUSt Ry Patsystems    |    Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive’s Report
r isk systems
Revenue from our risk systems business grew by 100% 
to £1.4 million from £0.7 million in 2006. There has been 
continued success for our post trade risk margining product 
Risk Informer during the year with MF Global implementing 
the product in their London operation across all asset classes 
as the initial phase of a global roll out. In addition, Calyon 
Financial, now Newedge after their merger with Fimat, are 
completing a project to extend Risk Informer to risk margin 
spot and forward Fx and F x options trading.
As anticipated, there has been a significant level of 
interest in the product from investment banks and brokers 
of all sizes and the volatility in the markets during the 
summer highlighted the relevance of effective real time 
risk management.
We remain confident in the opportunities for Risk Informer 
and anticipate further customer wins in 2008.
As we announced in our interim results in the summer we 
launched the beta version of our pre-trade risk product, 
Risk Monitor. Risk Monitor is a low latency tool designed to 
monitor proposed trades across a range of markets ahead of 
the exchange and, if necessary, prevent, restrict or provide 
alerts in respect of individual electronic trades.
With the increasing volumes of trades being executed either 
by black box trading systems or by systems that are trading 
directly into an exchange without an intervening broker, 
the need for real time, but very high performance, risk 
management is expected to grow.
ex Change systems
On 4 January 2008, t okyo Grain Exchange successfully 
launched three futures products, Arabica and Robusta 
bean coffee contracts and raw sugar, on the new continuous 
exchange system provided by Patsystems.
The tokyo Grain Exchange continues to offer markets in a 
broad range of contracts on their existing session-based 
trading system that is also provided by Patsystems but further 
contracts are anticipated to be launched or migrated to the 
new platform during 2008.
During the year, National Commodity Exchange Limited in 
Pakistan successfully commenced electronic trading with the 
launch of their gold futures contract.
We believe that our ability to provide a straight through 
processing solution from the trader through to matching and 
clearing the transaction at an exchange, with dynamic real 
time risk management throughout, is a differentiated offering 
in the market place. 
We continue to identify potential opportunities in Asia, 
particularly in China, where we have Chinese character set 
versions of our trading screens, but these opportunities arise 
infrequently and the decision processes can be very lengthy 
with significant political hurdles.
brand and marketing
One of our non-financial objectives in 2007 was to establish the 
Patsystems FlexAbility brand within our target market place of 
the investment banks, brokers and futures clearing merchants.
Independent commissioned research has confirmed that 
our objective for Patsystems to be acknowledged as a key 
technology supplier to our customers and prospects, rather 
than just a vendor of trading screens, has been achieved.
As well as reinforcing our key brand message, we have also 
changed the strap line beneath our logo so that it reflects 
exactly what we deliver as a business.
“powers trades. builds exchanges. manages risk. ”
strategy and Produ Ct develo Pment
The first sale of Global t rading to a new customer, the 
success of Risk Informer sales and the development of Risk 
Monitor are all successful steps in fulfilling our strategy to be 
the preferred supplier of technology solutions to our target 
market place.
During 2007, we have demonstrated our ability to sell hosted 
technology solutions to major customers with the signing 
of a contract to provide Global t rading to Macquarie. The 
launch of our Application Service Provider (ASP) solution has 
ensured that we can provide new customers with a full choice 
of means of technology deployment, depending on their 
business requirements.
In addition to continued investment in developing the Risk 
Monitor and Risk Informer products, along with supporting 
the roll out of the Global t rading solution, there are a 
number of key product investments planned for 2008.
10
continued Patsystems    |    Annual Report 2007
These include the delivery of further capability within our algorithmic server, 
a new higher performance version of our trading API that allows third parties 
to use the Patsystems order processing engine and market connectivity, and 
extended charting and best execution capability for the trading screens.
Our strategy of developing all new product components in accordance with 
the Financial Information exchange (FI x ) Protocol, a messaging standard 
developed specifically for the real-time electronic exchange of securities 
transactions, will ensure that those organisations that have adopted a best 
of breed approach to technology are able to purchase just those system 
components they require from Patsystems.
We continue to view the support of asset classes outside of exchange 
traded derivatives as important to our business evolution and with 
J-t rader’s extension to support trading of currency pairs we have made 
some progress towards this objective.
We will continue to explore in 2008, either by partnership or acquisition, the 
solution to further extend the support by our trading systems of multiple 
product classes.
exe Cutive management Committee
Kieron O’t oole joined Patsystems at the start of 2007 as Client Services 
Director with responsibility for software support, software releases and trading 
and risk system installations.
With Kieron’s appointment Andy Edwards, product and Development Director, 
took responsibility for product strategy in addition to his existing responsibility 
for product development. Andy has been key in defining the product road 
map for 2007 and 2008 and will be instrumental in identifying technology 
acquisitions that the business may require to fulfil our strategy.
Patrick Kenny has continued his leadership of our North American operations 
with additional marketing, sales and support resources added during the year 
as detailed below.
Graeme Neilly, as Director of European sales and global accounts, has grown 
his department and continues to work closely with Jon Regan, Head of new 
business sales Europe.
I am delighted to announce that Lorna Blane, who joined Patsystems in April 
2007 as Global Head of Human Resources, joined the Executive Management 
Committee in the summer.
11
All major product lines up over 20% 
annually for two constructive years
Cagr 27% – from 2001 to 2006
adv up 65% – Jan 2008 vs. Jan 2007
Contracts in millions
2007
Interest Rates +23%
Equities +47%
Fx +26%
Comm./Alt. Investments +20%
CME Products
CBOT Products
Annual Growth Rates
tHE FOLLOWING GRAPH 
INDICAt ES t HE CONt INUED 
GROWt H AND Ex PANDING 
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENt WIt HIN 
t HE DERIVAt IVES INDUSt Ry
6.8
8.6
‘06 ‘05
11.0
‘07
14.3
‘08
ytD
25% 28%
15
10
5
0
Consistent a nnual volume g rowth  
(Cme group adv by year) Patsystems    |    Annual Report 2007
In May 2007 Barry White replaced Kazuaki t akabatake as 
Head of Asia. Barry joined Patsystems in 2006 as Managing 
Director of Australia and brings 17 years of exchange and 
exchange-traded derivatives experience to the business.
t o take full advantage of the opportunities for growth within 
the Asia region, and to be better placed to take advantage 
of nascent opportunities in China, Barry has relocated to 
Singapore and made the Singapore office of Patsystems the 
regional headquarters. Barry has also opened an office in Hong 
Kong and instigated representation on the ground in Shanghai. 
business evolution and staff
As I announced at the start of the year we have, during 2007, 
extended our capability in every region that we operate 
so that Patsystems staff are available to provide support to 
customers, wherever in the world they are trading.
We have also invested in additional resources in North 
America and Asia to support the sale and promotion of our 
extended product set. These investments have meant that our 
overall headcount at the start of 2008 is 150 compared to 
132 at the start of 2007.
We are comfortable that these increases in headcount are 
necessary to both support our planned sales effort and also 
to improve customer service delivery to both our current and 
future customers.
I would like to take the opportunity to thank all of our staff 
for their efforts in 2007. They have built a business with a 
track record for delivery of complex technology solutions and 
have been credited in the third party research we undertook 
with our customers this year as “going the extra mile” when 
compared to our peers.
business obje Ctives and outlook
Our key objectives for 2008 are as follows:
Grow the Pro-Mark installed base and encourage  
investment bank customers to convert their J-t rader 
professional user base to Pro-Mark.
Build on the success of Risk Informer being selected and  
rolled out by MF Global by identifying opportunities 
within the investment banks and other major Future 
Clearing Merchants, as well as selling a “productised” 
version of the offering to smaller organisations.
Leverage the success of the first sale of Global t rading  
to Macquarie by converting the opportunities within the 
current customer base.
Initiate the all important breakthrough in sales for Risk  
Monitor, our pre-trade risk product.
t o extend the capability of J-t rader to support  
additional assets classes so that our customers can extend 
their retail trading user base.
t rading subsequent to the year-end has progressed in line 
with our expectations and we are confident that our business 
is well positioned to take advantage of market conditions.
david w ebber 
CHIEF ExECU t IVE 
8 February 2008
12
Chief Executive’s Report
continued Case studies: Caboto Caboto is the securities arm of Banca Intesa, Italy’s second largest banking group. 
Since 2000, Caboto’s London office has been home to the group’s consolidated listed 
derivatives business. Its clients include European Banks, Financial Institutions and 
Online Brokers.
Using Patsystems J-t rader and x Link products, Caboto has been able to expand 
the customer base of its futures and options operation by offering easy, low cost 
access to a broad range of exchanges. t hanks to the scalability of the technology, 
Caboto has leveraged its local expertise to become the dominant Italian broker in 
the futures market.
Partnershi Ps for mutual growth
Caboto has been faced with customers requesting access to a growing list of 
exchanges around the world. While providing an expanded service is crucial to 
retaining these customers, purchasing new exchange memberships is not always 
an economical way to keep pace with demand. The solution is x Link, a powerful 
software tool that enables multiple Patsystems users to interconnect and utilise each 
other’s exchange memberships.
Caboto has memberships to six futures exchanges, and by using x Link to establish 
partnerships with other banks around the world, it is able to offer access to a further 
five exchanges, with another three in the pipeline. In return, Caboto’s partner banks are 
able to provide their customers with access to Borsa Italiana’s IDEM market. All without 
any additional strain on the end users, who simply see the additional markets on their 
familiar trading screens.
“Using x Link we see benefits in two directions, ” Caboto says. “We provide our 
customers with a single access point to the expanding range of markets they want to 
trade without the need for additional memberships. At the same time, we leverage the 
memberships we do have to attract flow from around the world. ”
s ystem of Choi Ce
The vast majority of Caboto’s futures business is routed via the Patsystems J- t rader. 
Caboto conducts regular reviews of its vendor relationships and J-t rader has 
consistently come out on top when compared to the other futures trading systems on 
the market. 
“The critical factors for our customers are ease of use and ease of installation, and 
on these criteria Patsystems wins hands down, ” Caboto states. “We can have J-t rader 
installed via the internet a matter of hours after signing a new customer, and the 
interface is so simple to use we can offer them training over the telephone. ”
business benefits
Through its xLink connection to other members of the Patsystems user community, 
Caboto has developed a cost effective way to broaden their service offering. It is thus 
able to combine global exchange access with local expertise and relationships – a 
compelling proposition that enables Caboto to compete with much larger institutions 
and even outperform them in its home market.
“J-t rader and x Link have enabled us to build out our remote connectivity while 
keeping the organisation lean” Caboto reports. “In a climate of narrowing margins and 
increasing competition, we have not only held our own against the larger players but 
aggressively grown our business. The scalability, capabilities and ease of deployment of 
Patsystems technology have been integral to that growth. ”
t RadiN g solutioN s t rader’s tools and front-ends
Pro-Mark
J-t rader
IQ-t rader
t rading a Pi
Patsystems API
FIx t rading Gateway
Risk solutio Ns Risk Informer
Risk Monitor
e x ChaN ge solutio Ns Exchange Solutions
Patsystems Matching Engine
Clearing System
