 Patsystems    |    Annual Report 2007
Chairman’s Statement
shareholders may recollect that the 2006 a nnual r eport had 
the theme “soaring to new heights” . hopefully, the outcome for 
Patsystems in 2007 has justified the high level of confidence which 
we showed a year ago.
The strong financial results summarised below have been achieved while we 
have had to contend with an unforeseen level of trauma in some sectors of the 
global financial markets and adverse exchange-rate movements against sterling. 
The decline in the average US dollar and yen exchange rates have together 
reduced pre-tax profit by an estimated £390,000.
As David’s report describes in detail, while achieving these results, 2007 has 
seen us move our trading systems product range to demonstrable market 
leadership, with our professional front-end Pro-Mark and a new core platform, 
Global t rading, which will be state-of-the art for many years to come. Risk 
Informer is achieving growing sales success, as the current more risk-averse 
external environment motivates our customers to make a more sophisticated 
analysis of their immediate and potential market exposures.
We have continued to add significant new customers such as global investment 
bank The Macquarie Group, as the first adopter of Global t rading, and 
R  J O’Brien & Associates, one of the largest independent futures brokerages 
in the United States. In addition, we have continued to extend the products 
and services we provide to our existing customer base via the adoption of Risk 
Informer, and new trading installations within the Asia region.
f inan Cial r esults
Pre-tax profit for the full year ended 31 December 2007 was £2.19 million 
compared to £1.63 million in 2006 and £0.36 million in 2005. Fully diluted EPS, 
excluding the impact of deferred tax, grew to 1.2p per share from 0.8p per 
share last year. 
02
stewart millman 
CHAIRMAN,  
NON-Ex ECUt IVE DIRECt OR Patsystems    |    Annual Report 2007 05
Adjusted pre-tax profit (profit before tax after adjusting for share option costs, 
marking to market of derivatives used to hedge cash flows and amortisation of 
intangibles other than internally developed software) for the full year ended 
31 December 2007 was £3.0 million compared to £2.1 million in 2006. Fully diluted 
EPS on this basis and excluding the impact of deferred tax grew to 1.6p per share 
from 1.1p per share last year. Details of these calculations are set out in the Earnings 
Per Share section of the Finance Director’s Review on page 15.
Cash flows from operating activities have remained steady at £2.65 million 
(2006: £2.69 million). 
With 83% of revenue in 2007 of a recurrent nature the business has an excellent 
financial foundation for 2008, and the stability of revenues in turn assists us to plan 
the business with a high degree of comfort.
The initial tamesis earn out period concluded on 31 July 2007 and 12.159 million 
ordinary shares were issued as consideration to the vendors of t amesis in 
September 2007. Under the Sale and Purchase Agreement a further and final issue 
of approximately 1.092 million shares will be issued in February 2008.
dividend
Following the dividend of 0.3p per share, approved by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting on 19 April 2007, relating to the results for 2006, the Board 
declared an interim dividend of 0.12p, payable in September 2007, based on the 
interim results for the year.
As a continued tangible expression of our confidence the Board is recommending 
the payment of a final dividend of 0.21p based on the results for 2007 as a whole, 
bringing the total dividend for the year to 0.33p per share, compared to a total of 
0.3p for 2006. 
Subject to confirmation at the Annual General Meeting the final dividend will be 
paid on 23 May 2008 to shareholders on the register as at 25 April 2008. The 
shares are expected to be quoted ex-dividend on 23 April 2008.
management and s taff
I must start this section commending David and his team on their achievements 
during 2007. During the last two years, Patsystems has emerged as a company that 
is achieving consistent, forecastable profits and cash-flow, whilst delivering  
a significantly broader range of services and products to its target market place.
Under David Webber and Martin Thorneycroft’s leadership, the business has 
continued to evolve to the benefit of customers, shareholders and staff while 
reinforcing the important attributes of the Patsystems style and approach that 
differentiate it from its competitors. The operational structure which they have 
built is aimed at being robust enough to withstand the vicissitudes that the world 
financial markets seem destined to throw at us. 
One member of the Executive Management Committee (EMC) left during the 
year when Barry White was promoted to Head of Asia Region, replacing Kazuaki 
t akabatake. The Chief Executive’s report details the EMC and their respective 
responsibilities. The stability of our senior management team is a benefit to our 
customers and contributes to the excellent collegiate spirit within the whole firm, 
led by the EMC, and is a vital asset in serving a global industry.
2007 has seen us move our 
trading systems product 
range to demonstrable 
market leadership, with 
our professional front-end 
Pro-mark and a new core 
platform, global t rading.
Patsystems has emerged as 
a company that is achieving 
consistent, forecastable 
profits and cash-flow, whilst 
delivering a significantly 
broader range of services 
and products to its target 
market place. Patsystems    |    Annual Report 2007 06
Chairman’s Statement
The Board regularly engages with as many of the senior 
management team as possibe, including travelling to our 
major locations outside London. On behalf of the Board I can 
say that we continue to be impressed by the commitment, 
professionalism and enthusiasm of all Patsystems’ people.
They should all feel justifiably proud of the business they 
have built.
board
Alongside my thanks to David and Martin, I must thank 
Richard Last, Steve Sparke and John Priestley both for their 
effort and the quality of their wise counsel during 2007.
Richard’s long involvement with a broad range of technology 
businesses, Steve’s 18 years of experience at UBS and John’s 
experience as a Director of Syntegra together provide a range 
of expertise and knowledge highly relevant to the Board’s 
deliberations, as well as being of direct support on various 
matters to the executive directors. I have personally enjoyed 
working with them enormously.
However, all good things must come to an end. I was 
appointed to the Patsystems Board as Chairman in February 
2003. I hope and believe that Patsystems is demonstrably a 
very much better and stronger company now than then. In 
this positive condition I am happy to hand over the Chair to 
Richard Last after the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, 
when I will also retire from the Board. Having known Richard 
for many years and worked professionally with him for most 
of them, I can commend him highly to you. 
f uture
t rading from 1 January 2008 and prospects for 2008 are in 
line with business plans and hence we remain comfortable 
with current market expectations for 2008.
In 2008 we expect to see continued success in promoting 
both existing products and the new products that we have 
developed and to identify further complementary businesses 
or technologies that can be acquired and developed by our 
existing management team. 
The acquisition of tamesis in 2005, and the subsequent 
business success that the Risk Informer product has enjoyed, 
demonstrates the value that can be created by promoting, 
and supporting, a new product through the Patsystems 
global infrastructure.
We believe the fundamental strength of our balance sheet, 
strong cash generation and resilient share price are to our 
benefit when looking for potential acquisitions during a 
period of market and economic turbulence.
As a result, we believe that the long term opportunities 
for our business are outstanding. Despite the uncertainty 
of the economic climate, we view the prospects for the 
Company with continued optimism.
Customers and shareholders
I would like to thank all of our customers for their support 
during 2007. The adoption of our new products and 
services by an increasingly wide group of customers is 
testament to the trust they are putting in us to deliver future 
joint business success.
The Board continues to believe that the transparency of both 
operational plans and financial figures afforded by having a 
key technology partner that is a quoted company is valued by 
both our existing and prospective customers and serves as a 
differentiator from our main competitors.
I would like to thank our shareholders for their continued 
support and we look forward to their involvement 
as Patsystems’ business continues to go from strength 
to strength.
stewart millman 
CHAIRMAN,  
NON-Ex ECUt IVE DIRECt OR
8 February 2008
continued t Radi Ng solutio Ns e x Cha Nge solutio Ns Risk solutio Ns Case studies: Ra Nd f i Na NCial s e Rvi Ces Rand Financial Services executes and clears futures and options on behalf of the world’s 
premier banks, institutional clients, hedge funds, Ct As and non-clearing FCMs.
Founded in 1993 as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Bermuda-based t ewksbury 
Investment Fund Ltd. Rand is a member of all major futures exchanges with its principal 
office located in Chicago.
By implementing Patsystems’ J-t rader front end, Rand can provide its clients with 
electronic access to a growing range of exchanges around the world. Over a period of 
years, Patsystems has time and again delivered the solutions Rand requires to maintain 
a leading position in the evolving market environment. Patsystems remains Rand’s sole 
trading system provider.
a solid deC ision
The advent of electronic trading allowed FCMs to offer their clients access to exchanges 
without the need for a presence on the floor, but in order to do this, the firms needed 
to invest in systems that could deliver that access in a reliable and cost-effective way.
When Rand first decided to provide electronic access via a third-party systems 
provider, it hired an independent consultant to evaluate the available vendors, 
and Patsystems was selected based on that evaluation. By providing a reliable and 
responsive service that has kept pace with the rapidly changing market landscape, 
Patsystems has never given Rand cause to regret its initial decision or to consider 
systems from other vendors.
aCC ess all areas
One of the key services Patsystems has enabled Rand to deliver to its clients is 
connectivity to an ever-widening range of markets.
“We have many hedge fund and Ct A clients who are always interested in expanding 
into new markets – striving to stay ahead of the curve” explains Mike Manning, 
President and CEO of Rand Financial Services. “Consequently there is a regular 
requirement from them for connectivity to new exchanges. We have to be responsive 
to that because if we don’t provide that connectivity, the competition will. Working 
with Patsystems, we have been able to keep pace with that demand and satisfy our 
clients’ voracious appetite for new trading opportunities. ”
Rand currently offers access to sixteen marketplaces via Patsystems. As well as the “big 
four” the list includes IDEM in Italy, MEFF in Spain and, most recently, Dubai Mercantile 
Exchange. Patsystems even offers electronic order routing to the remaining open outcry 
trading venues, enabling Rand clients to trade all markets from the same screen. 
t RadiN g solutioN s t rader’s tools and front-ends
Pro-Mark
J-t rader
IQ-t rader
t rading a Pi
Patsystems API
FIx t rading Gateway
Risk solutio Ns Risk Informer
Risk Monitor
e x ChaN ge solutio Ns Exchange Solutions
Patsystems Matching Engine
Clearing System
