 Highlights
PROFIt/(LOSS)  
BEFORE t Ax (£ M)
Financial Highlights 
Revenue up 11% to £17 million (2006 – £15.3 million) 
Operating profit as a percentage of sales up to 12.3%  
(2006 – 10.3%)
Adjusted Pre-t ax Profit up 43% to £3 million (2006 –  
£2.1 million)*
Proposed full year dividend of 0.33p (2006 – 0.30p)  ‘03 ‘04 ‘05 ‘06 ‘07
3000
2000
1000
0
-1000
-2000
-3000
* profit before tax after adjusting for share option costs, marking to market of  
 derivatives used to hedge cash flows and amortisation of intangibles other than  
 internally developed software.
Operational Highlights
375 Pro-Mark screens deployed (2006 – 129) 
Significant customer wins: 
R J O’Brien & Associates – one of the largest independent  »
futures brokerages in the US
The Macquarie Group – the international provider of banking,  »
financial, advisory and investment services (first adopter of 
Global t rading)
Pro-Mark version 4.0 launched with functionality specifically  
designed for energy traders
1 Patsystems    |    Annual Report 2007 Patsystems    |    Annual Report 2007
Business Profile
02
Patsystems: our business 
Patsystems’ long-standing reputation has been established through both 
outstanding customer partnerships and proven technology. Patsystems was 
established in 1994 as one of the original independent software vendors 
(ISVs) to develop electronic trading solutions. t oday, we are one of the world’s 
leading software providers for professional, technical and retail traders. 
Patsystems sets the standard for technology solution partnerships within 
the exchange-traded derivatives sector. With our extensive global market 
connectivity, exceptional customer support, scalable trading solutions and 
market leading risk technology, we continue to set a benchmark for other ISVs 
to attain. 
build it your way 
We offer solutions at every step in the trading cycle. Our experienced 
development team delivers excellence in both performance and innovation: 
A choice of three market leading front-end trading screens provide  
flexible functionality to cater for all traders’ needs: whether professional, 
technical or retail. 
A proven core system provides high speed order routing and straight  
through processing. 
Sophisticated pre- and post-trade risk management, across multiple assets  
in real-time. Our post-trade risk solutions are selected by global financial 
institutions looking for a highly-capable, reliable and efficient solution, 
and our pre-trade risk solutions have been adopted by the major futures 
clearing merchants. 
Our exchange-matching engine has been adopted by six exchanges  
worldwide and is fully integrated to our trading and risk solutions.
Patsystems complements this superior risk and trading technology by providing 
extensive access to global liquidity. This access spans across multiple asset 
classes and exchanges in over 20 countries. 
At Patsystems, our customers’ needs are at the core of our business success and 
future growth.
We have moved quickly to benefit from the growth in derivatives 
trading. Global exchange numbers vs. global traded volume show that 
exchange volumes are growing rapidly.
tO t AL NUMBER OF  
FUt URES CONt RACt S  
t RADED GLOBALLy (M IL.)
3,600
3,100
4,200
5,800
‘03 ‘04 ‘05 ‘06
PAt Sy St EMS Ex CHANGE 
CONNECt IVIty
30
24
36
49
‘07 ‘06 ‘05 ‘04 Patsystems    |    Annual Report 2007
Case studies: Newedge takes Risk iN fo Rme R 
Newedge is a global brokerage and clearing firm providing institutional clients 
with efficient access to financial and commodity markets around the world. With 
memberships on the major worldwide futures and options exchanges, it consistently 
ranks among the largest in customer volume.
By implementing Patsystems’ Risk Informer, Newedge has introduced real time post-
trade risk management, giving it the capability to take on additional clients with a range 
of risk profiles and complex trading styles.
the Challenge
Newedge was using a number of ISV-specific pre-trade risk management applications 
to monitor its clients’ trading activity. This approach had several major limitations: 
first, it offered no way to risk manage clients with direct market access; second, it 
often meant maintaining multiple pre-trade risk filters for a single client; third, setting 
position limits for options traders was a labour intensive task and yielded a flawed 
picture of their true risk profile. 
the s olution
Newedge identified the need for a more intelligent, across the board, margin 
calculation. A review of available systems was conducted, in which Risk Informer was 
evaluated alongside offerings from established back-office vendors. Risk Informer was 
selected on the basis that it was more capable, more flexible and simpler to deploy 
than the competition. 
While other systems use batch processing, in some cases assessing data only once 
every fifteen minutes, Risk Informer’s event-driven architecture triggers a new margin 
calculation after every trade. “We needed a system capable of monitoring high volume, 
high velocity traders, ” said Leslie Sutphen, Newedge’s Global Head of eSolutions. 
“When you consider how many trades an algorithmic black box can generate in 
fifteen minutes, it is clear that a batch processing system would provide inadequate 
protection, potentially triggering alerts only after it was too late to act. With Risk 
Informer’s real time monitoring we can step in the moment a limit is breached. ”
Newedge signed the deal with Patsystems in March 2006, and by August client 
simulations were running for trades on numerous global exchanges, and the system has 
been in full production mode since January 2007. Coverage has since been expanded 
to include Asian exchanges.
“Patsystems worked hard to deliver a smooth and timely installation and ensure all 
of our objectives were met, ” said Sutphen. “On-going production support from their 
highly responsive team has also been excellent. ” Impressed with the flexibility of Risk 
Informer and its ability to handle multiple asset classes, Newedge has also selected the 
system for its foreign exchange business.
business benefits
With the Risk Informer installation in Chicago, Newedge now has the capability to risk 
manage its clients worldwide on a real time, post-trade basis. As well as effecting a 
major improvement in the risk management of existing business, this has enabled the 
firm to expand by offering clearing services to a wider range of clients.
“Risk Informer has given us the scalability to continue growing our business, ” 
commented Sutphen. “The system is currently being used to risk manage ten major 
clients with combined daily margins of well over $200m, and we’re signing up new 
clients all the time. By enabling us to monitor much more effectively DMA traders and 
options traders, Risk Informer gives us the opportunity to fully service clients that, 
because of high volume electronic trading, are essentially a new class of risk profile. ”
t RadiN g solutioN s t rader’s tools and front-ends
Pro-Mark
J-t rader
IQ-t rader
t rading a Pi
Patsystems API
FIx t rading Gateway
Risk solutio Ns Risk Informer
Risk Monitor
e x ChaN ge solutio Ns Exchange Solutions
Patsystems Matching Engine
Clearing System
