 Patsystems Plc
Annual report & accounts 2010 08
Patsystems Plc
Annual report & accounts 2010
Business Review
Chief Executive’ s Report
Developing new and  
existing markets
I am particularly delighted by the 
exchange system sales to both  
MATba and VNX, demonstrating the 
transformation of our exchange  
systems business from being materially 
dependent on small Japanese exchanges 
to a business with global appeal. With 
the integration of our matching engine, 
risk offerings and trading solution,  
I believe there will be significant 
opportunities for exchange solution  
sales in 2011 and beyond.
It was disappointing that a material  
Risk Informer opportunity that was 
significantly progressed through the 
procurement process did not conclude  
in 2010 and as such, risk system sales did 
not achieve the level we had targeted. 
However, we continue to have a number 
of exciting sales opportunities for the 
product and a range of new add-on 
modules to sell in 2011.
Though it was detrimental to the 2010 
results, I believe it is the correct strategy 
for revenue from exchange system sales 
to include a volume related charge rather 
than a sole upfront perpetual licence, 
thereby allowing Patsystems to share  
in the benefits of the exchange’s future 
growth. If new and developing electronic 
trading exchanges enjoy the growth  
that established exchanges have enjoyed 
in recent years, then this judgement will 
be vindicated by an anticipated increase 
to Patsystems’ recurring revenues in  
2012 onwards.
2010 Business Objectives
At the start of 2010, we set four 
objectives for the business and overall  
I am satisfied with our progress against 
these objectives, these are reported on 
as follows:
Solidify our position as the premier 
provider of risk margin systems within 
the world’s top global banks
In 2010, we partially achieved this 
objective, with Macquarie Bank Limited 
adopting the product and J. P. Morgan 
extending its use of the product. As 
previously reported a well progressed 
opportunity with a third global bank did 
not progress, to the detriment of our 
2010 results.
“We saw continued success for sales of our exchange 
systems business in 2010 and it is our opinion that 
Patsystems currently has a unique proposition in the 
global marketplace with our ability to provide exchange 
matching, clearing, trading and risk capability as an 
integrated package. ” Patsystems Plc
Annual report & accounts 2010
Patsystems Plc
Annual report & accounts 2010 09
Business Review
Increasing
shareholder
value 
01
Reduce the business’ 
reliance on one-off 
project and 
licence sales
02
Provide matching 
technology directly 
to exchanges to 
extend the breadth of 
Patsystems global 
connectivity
03
Continue the extension 
of geographical coverage 
to growth markets
04
Identify complimentary 
add-on acquisitions to 
leverage the existing 
sales and support 
infrastructure 
investment
Extend our sales penetration in new 
countries with additional sales in 
Malaysia, Indonesia and Brazil
The business had sales success in 
Malaysia, to Bursa Malaysia Derivatives, 
and also in Vietnam and Argentina. The 
Indonesian Commodity and Derivative 
Exchange which adopted the Patsystems 
exchange solution in 2009 has enjoyed a 
successful first period of trading in 2010 
with traded volumes growing steadily. 
We expect that the anticipated success  
in Brazil will be achieved once our 
Patsystems XConnect hub is deployed  
in São Paulo.
Deliver hosted services to new and 
existing customers within all regions that 
we operate
Patsystems XConnect hubs in Tokyo and 
Hong Kong are live with a total of 6 
customers. Patsystems XConnect hubs in 
Singapore and Chicago went live in the 
autumn of 2010 with NewEdge, one of 
our existing major customers. 
Continue the 2009 sales success for our 
exchange systems offering.
The exchange system sales to MATba 
and VNX during 2010 continue to 
demonstrate the global potential of our 
exchange systems offering. 
Revenue Streams
The Group operates in one product line, 
that of the supply of software to financial 
institutions and consists of the following 
revenue streams:
Trading Systems 
The investment in Patsystems XConnect 
is a key strategy in supporting the 
growth plan for increasing revenues from 
our trading systems business. Patsystems 
XConnect will leverage Patsystems XLink 
technology, which allows for seamless 
exchange connectivity and order routing 
between Patsystems XConnect hubs or 
client sites.
The Patsystems XConnect hubs planned 
for deployment in 2010 were all 
implemented on schedule apart from 
São Paulo where local procurement 
challenges have deferred this to 2011.
Our Strategy for Growth
To support the deployment of Patsystems 
XConnect in North America, Patsystems 
has selected Interactive Data 7ticks to 
provide ultra-low latency networking 
services and exchange connectivity. A 
selection process is under way to identify 
a partner to provide global WAN 
infrastructure connectivity.
It is expected that capital investment in 
excess of £0.5 million will be made in 
2011 to support Patsystems XConnect 
deployment globally. 
Our replacement order management 
system, Global Trading and Risk Alert, 
has been deployed to a number of 
customers. It is expected that further 
deployments of our new core trading 
system, Global Trading, will take place 
throughout 2011, commencing with the 
Patsystems XConnect hub in London.
Exchange Systems
As previously stated, we saw continued 
success for sales of our exchange systems 
business in 2010 and it is our opinion 
that Patsystems currently has a unique 
proposition in the global marketplace 
with our ability to provide exchange 
matching, clearing, trading and risk 
capability as an integrated package.
We believe that there are opportunities 
across the globe for smaller or newly 
established commodity or financial 
futures exchanges that want a complete 
end-to-end technology solution and wish 
to source this from a single supplier.
Based in Buenos Aires, MATba is  
a futures and options commodity 
exchange specialising in wheat, corn  
and soya. While the exchange has 
experienced steady demand over the  Patsystems Plc
Annual report & accounts 2010 10
Patsystems Plc
Annual report & accounts 2010
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Report continued
MATba leverages Patsystems’ technology to 
achieve its future growth plans 
After an extensive global selection process, the Mercado a Término de  
Buenos Aires (‘MATba’) has selected Patsystems as its key technology  
provider as it prepares to add electronic trading capability to its existing  
open outcry operations. 
Based in Buenos Aires, MATba is a futures and options commodity exchange 
specialising in wheat, corn and soya. While the exchange has experienced 
steady demand over the past few years, MATba acknowledges that they  
could experience increased volume with an electronic offering. 
Patsystems will provide MATba with a complete exchange system that includes 
straight through processing and matching supported by the Patsystems 
Matching Engine. The Patsystems Matching Engine is readily scalable and  
can fully accommodate the anticipated future growth of MATba. 
MATba will also utilise Patsystems pre-trade risk management module and 
front-end trading applications, Pro-Mark and J-Trader. Patsystems’ front-ends 
are user-friendly, feature-rich applications that can be easily deployed to 
MATba participants over the Internet, WAN, LAN or leased lines. Ease of 
deployment was a key consideration for MATba as they aim to make their 
market more accessible to local and international participants.
past few years, MATba recognise the 
Exchange could experience increased 
volume by extending electronic trading 
to its current open outcry offering. 
In addition to the Patsystems Matching 
Engine, MATba will also utilise Patsystems’ 
J-Trader, which will be deployed to 
MATba participants over the internet.
VNX was officially introduced at a 
ceremony in Ho Chi Minh City on 20 
October 2010 by the SME Securities  
Joint Stock Co and by Trieu Phong Gold 
International Joint Stock Co. VNX will 
initially trade in steel, rubber, and coffee 
which are some of Vietnam’s biggest 
exports. It will also provide an additional 
financial tool for producers and traders 
to protect themselves against price 
fluctuation risks. 
Patsystems’ exchange solution will 
facilitate the integration of electronic 
trading between domestic producers  
and traders and provide access to 
international customers interested  
in Vietnam’s commodity markets.
Our project with TurkDEX continued 
during 2010 and phase 1 is expected  
to go live in the first half of 2011; a 
subsequent phase 2 will be deployed  
later in 2011 or early in 2012. During the 
year the Indonesian Commodity and 
Derivatives Exchange successfully 
launched their second product, a crude 
palm oil contract, which will act as a 
reference point for Indonesia’s local 
commodity producers. Indonesia is one  
of the world’s largest producers of crude 
palm oil.
Risk Systems
During 2010, Prudential Bache, J. P. 
Morgan and Macquarie Bank Limited 
deployed Patsystems’ post-trade risk 
margining product, Risk Informer. Risk 
Informer is also a key component of a 
feature-rich clearing and risk solution 
that will be implemented at TurkDEX’s 
clearing bank in Turkey as part of the 
overall project with TurkDEX.
In 2011 we expect to sell Risk Informer 
services and license new modules to 
existing customers, as well as sell new 
Risk Informer licences to other global  
and local financial institutions. 
The new modules that will be promoted 
in 2011 include scenario analysis with the 
capability to simulate possible market or 
price shocking conditions as well as new 
options risk capability that will provide  
a view of option positions, prices and 
Greeks based upon the movement of  
the underlying contract. 
Staff and Operating Structure
Overall staff numbers have remained 
broadly similar to 2009 with 161 
employees at the 31 December 2010 
compared to 162 on 1 January 2010. 
During the first quarter of 2011, the 
operating structure of Patsystems will be 
completely reviewed with the objective 
of removing hierarchy, improving 
information dissemination and increasing 
operating margins.
As a first part of this process the 
management structure of the operations 
functions has been revised and the 
revised team will now review the 
remainder of the operations department.
The objective for the business is to 
improve operating margin by 2% based 
on our 2010 results.
Business Strategy
Patsystems’ business objective is to  
be the external partner of choice  
for investment banks, futures  
clearing merchants and exchanges  
for the provision of electronic  
trading, trade matching and risk  
management technology. Patsystems Plc
Annual report & accounts 2010
Patsystems Plc
Annual report & accounts 2010 11
Business Review
Patsystems selected by the 
Vietnam Commodity Exchange
The newly established Vietnam Commodity Exchange 
(‘VNX’) was officially introduced at a ceremony in  
Ho Chi Minh City on 20 October 2010. One of the  
key objectives of the exchange is to create a marketplace 
for Vietnam’s popular commodity products, steel, rubber,  
and coffee – some of Vietnam’s biggest exports. It will 
also provide an additional financial tool for producers  
and traders to protect themselves against price  
fluctuation risks. 
VNX will utilise Patsystems’ complete exchange solution. 
This will include Patsystems’ trade matching engine, 
clearing and settlement platform, pre-trade risk 
management module and the front-end execution 
platform. Patsystems’ exchange solution will facilitate  
the integration of electronic trading between domestic 
producers and traders, and provide access to international 
customers interested in Vietnam’s commodity markets.
The growth strategy of the business 
has four components:
Reduce the business’ reliance on •	
one-off project and licence sales
Provide matching technology directly •	
to exchanges to extend the breadth 
Patsystems global connectivity
Continue the extension of •	
geographical coverage to growth 
markets
Identify complimentary add-on •	
acquisitions to leverage the existing 
sales and support infrastructure 
investment
The acquisition strategy is to identify  
and acquire businesses that provide 
complimentary technology and where 
shareholder value can be created by 
selling that technology through the 
Patsystems global sales organisation.
A number of appropriate targets were 
identified in 2010, but an appropriate 
acquisition price could not be agreed 
that would have created value for 
Patsystems’ shareholders.
Business Objectives and Outlook
Our key objectives for 2011 are as 
follows:
Grow the recurring revenue base by •	
growth of the Patsystems XConnect 
ASP offering
Extend the Risk Informer customer •	
base and licence the new modules  
to existing customers
Continue the 2010 sales success for •	
our futures exchange system product 
in all markets
Revise our internal structure to •	
increase the operating margin
Trading subsequent to the year end has 
progressed in line with our expectations 
and we remain confident of fulfilling  
our growth aspirations across all areas  
of the business.
David Webber
Chief Executive 
7 February 2011
