 2 PayPoint plc annual report 2011
I am pleased to report the return to growth in earnings as a result of good 
performance by our UK retail network, excellent internet payment growth and 
substantial progress in our Romanian network and Collect+. We have increased 
resources and improved infrastructure at PayByPhone.  We have made strong progress 
in technology, completing the development and starting the roll out of our virtual 
terminal, developing a broadband communications solution for faster transactions 
and introduced new services for our terminal network, including cash out and money 
transfer.
In the UK retail network, retail services delivered healthy growth, although mobile  
top-ups continued to decline.  I am particularly delighted with the recent 
announcement that we have won the tender to provide the retail network for the 
Department for Work and Pensions’ replacement of giro cheques for benefit payments, 
the contract for which is under negotiation.  Currently, over 20 million giro cheques 
are issued annually to pay benefits.  We have already demonstrated that our retailers 
can make payments to consumers (in addition to our traditional strength in collecting 
money from them).  This will substantially increase the flow of money out, reducing 
banking charges to retailers and delivering more commission and footfall to them.
Internet net revenues have increased 20% and the business had notable success in 
winning gaming merchants, including Stan James, 32Red and Sportingbet.  We are 
continuing to win gaming business because of our robust and resilient platform, 
innovation, advanced fraud and risk management capabilities, and real-time enterprise 
level reporting.
We have continued to invest in our Romanian retail network by increasing our full 
service terminal estate by more than 1,100, whilst removing all the old mobile top-up 
only sites.  We accept bill payment for 27 clients and transaction volumes have more 
than doubled to over 12.1 million transactions.  Under a new contract with Western 
Union, we will roll out money transfer this year.
We have extended our parcels service through Collect+, our joint venture with Yodel, 
selectively across our UK retail network. Momentum is strong, with considerable 
interest among major internet retailers and internet marketplaces. We have over 3,700 
sites handling Collect+ parcels and 30 home shopping retailers live, including some of 
the most respected customer service leaders, including ASOS, New Look, Boden and 
Very. During the year, we handled over 1 million parcels.
In PayByPhone, we have increased the resources in sales, marketing and delivery more 
than we planned. We have upgraded the infrastructure to provide disaster recovery 
and introduced a new consumer friendly mobile web parking registration and payment 
system for the UK and North America. We will continue to invest to stay at the leading 
edge of this fast moving market.
The combination of sound, profitable growth in both the UK retail network and our 
internet business, substantive progress towards profitability in our Romanian retail 
network, gathering momentum in Collect+ and proper resourcing of PayByPhone, 
mark an important year in re-establishing the group for substantial growth. We are 
proposing a final dividend of 15.6 pence per share, making a total for the year of  
23.4 pence, an increase of 7.3%.
For the current financial year, trading is in line with the company’s expectations. Our 
established business streams (UK and Irish retail networks and internet payments) are 
strong, with further opportunities to enhance retail yield through the introduction 
of new technology and services. In addition, improvements in our service offering to 
online merchants will provide opportunities for growth. We will benefit from rolling 
out services in our developing business streams (Collect+, PayByPhone and Romanian 
retail network), growing our market share and improving profitability. Together, our 
businesses provide a solid foundation to deliver value for our shareholders.
David Newlands
26 May 2011
Collect+
Collect+ brings a different type of 
customer to our agents’ stores and 
pays generous commission to retailers. 
Increasingly being offered by mail order 
companies and online merchants as an 
option for both delivery and returning 
goods via a participating PayPoint retailer, 
Collect+ has been extended to enable 
consumers and small businesses to send 
parcels to each other at any address in 
the UK or to another PayPoint retailer 
nominated by the customer. Collect+ is a 
listed option on eBay.
“We have found Collect+ to be an 
excellent additional service to offer in 
store. Business is constant and brings 
new customers into the store from the 
local area and beyond.”
Adrian Boyd, Mace, Belfast
Cash Out
PayPoint has introduced a number 
of schemes that involve paying cash 
to consumers. Benefits to the retailer 
include customers spending the cash 
in store, healthy commission on every 
transaction and reduced banking 
charges. Examples of these schemes 
include dual fuel rebates from British 
Gas for 600,000 customers and free 
electricity credits for customers of E.ON. 
Mobile Phone Xchange, a leading mobile 
phone recycling company, has offered its 
customers the option of collecting cash 
for their old phones at any  
PayPoint retailer.
“Our stores have experienced high 
volumes of ‘cash out’ transactions, which 
has been of real benefit to our business. 
We are earning extra commission for a 
very time efficient, simple transaction. 
This type of transaction is also having the 
added benefit of customers either
spending their rebate in-store on bill 
payments or on other purchases. Win 
win for all concerned!”
Scott Partridge, News & Services
Manager, Rippleglen Ltd.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
