 PayPoint plc annual report 2011 3
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
PayPoint has had another good year, in which we have delivered profits in line with 
market expectations and our strategic plans.  Our UK retail network and internet 
payments have continued to be highly profitable and cash generative. Collect+, 
PayByPhone and our Romanian retail network, which are important to the creation of 
value, have all made good progress during the year. 
Our strategy:
Since the flotation of the original UK retail network business in 2004, PayPoint has 
evolved into a specialist payments company. Our strategy has four key elements: 
•	 Breadth of payments capability
The acceptance of a broad range of payments (cash, cards, e-money, etc.) through 
multiple channels (retail, internet and mobile phone)
•	 Strength in vertical markets
Targeting sectors with high volume, recurring consumer payments
•	 Value added content / services
Providing additional content or services to the payment channels and chosen  
vertical markets to create differentiation
•	 Geographic reach
Identifying regions with attractive payment dynamics to create value through 
exporting our know-how.
PayPoint has succeeded in delivering this broad payment hub capability to clients 
in a number of key vertical markets (energy/utilities, telecoms and media, financial, 
transport/parking, public sector/social housing, retail and gaming/leisure), with the 
ability to process payments across the consumer’s choice of payment and channel. 
The delivery of payments from consumers to our clients encompasses transaction 
authorisation, processing, clearing and settlement and interfacing to banks, card 
schemes/networks and other financial intermediaries. PayPoint also provides value 
added content and services within each channel, to differentiate the PayPoint 
proposition from those of its competitors. 
In our retail channels, differentiation is achieved through providing retailers with a 
broad range of retail services, including ATMs, parcels, SIM cards and international 
money transfer through Western Union
®
. 
In the internet channel, differentiation to merchants is driven through a widening base 
of card scheme sponsors and payment types, together with the quality of our fraud 
screening and reporting. 
Our mobile channel, delivered through PayByPhone, will similarly drive differentiation 
through its ability to leverage our cash retail payment capability and internet payment 
services, combined with improving the consumer experience with appropriate smart 
phone applications.
The extension of our geographic reach is progressing. 
Internet payments
PayPoint.net’s secure payment solutions 
are tailored to meet clients’ business 
requirements by seamlessly integrating 
with their in-house systems. Clients 
are able to incorporate PayPoint.net’s 
real-time reporting and reconciliation 
functionality into their existing 
technology, making their systems easier 
to manage while giving them a detailed 
view of their business performance. 
Fraudguard, our market leading 
e-commerce risk management platform, 
allows PayPoint.net’s clients to take a 
risk based approach to fraud, protecting 
their revenues.  PayPoint.net’s extensive 
customer portfolio, which includes 
leading names such as StanJames.com, 
Sportingbet and 32Red, firmly positions  
it as a leading PSP in the gaming and 
retail sectors.
“Brand reputation is a key factor for 
WHSmith, which is why we need a 
reliable payment solution. Not only 
has PayPoint.net’s payment platform 
delivered on its promise, we’ve been
highly impressed with their dedicated 
support and ongoing consultation.”
Mark Stephenson, Operations Manager, 
WHSmith
Western Union
Offering the Western Union
®
 Money 
Transfer
sm
 service through PayPoint 
gives retailers a unique advantage over 
other local stores by attracting more 
customers, generating additional footfall 
and increasing profits. By earning 
commission on both ‘send’ and ‘receive’ 
transactions, retailers are able to boost 
their earnings by up to £3,500 per 
annum.  Since the year end, PayPoint has 
introduced Western Union transactions to 
the PayPoint terminal, making it the only 
money transfer supplier able to provide 
the Western Union service in the UK with 
no additional investment in equipment by 
the retailer.
“Since starting Western Union
®
, I’ve
noticed new customers coming to my 
store every week. I am providing a very 
valuable service to the local community 
whilst boosting my monthly income.”
Mrs Tharmeshwaran, Proprietor,
Shop & Saver, London 4 PayPoint plc annual report 2011
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Growth and prospects:
Technology
We use technology to drive value through the introduction of new payment types and 
related services.  These, in turn, add new revenue opportunities to our proven recurring 
payment methods.
In our UK retail network, we are rolling out a new virtual terminal to multiple retailers 
- a software variant of our terminal which is integrated into the retailers’ till systems, in 
conjunction with a bespoke PayPoint plug-in reader to provide the full functionality of 
the physical terminal more efficiently and at lower cost. In store, this allows our service 
to be available at every check-out lane and eliminates the need for reconciliation with 
the main till system. As we free UK network terminals, we will deploy them in Romania.
An increasing number of our terminals are being connected through broadband 
connectivity rather than dial-up, dramatically improving the speed of online transactions.  
In Romania and the UK, a development to enable money transfer on our terminal will 
eliminate the expense and complication of a separate personal computer, significantly 
reducing the entry cost for retailers and expanding the eligibility criteria for the  
service. Development work for cash out services will make our retailer settlement 
systems more streamlined and allow the cash balances we generate through bill 
payment to be recycled back to consumers, saving retailers bank charges and 
increasing in-store spend.
In the internet channel, we are developing substantial improvements to our services 
to online merchants. These include new transaction optimisation, an advanced 
management and reporting solution, a PCI compliance offering and additional payment 
methods, which should provide significant competitive advantage.
PayByPhone is introducing a new, consumer friendly mobile web parking registration  
and payment system and has utilised one of the group’s data centres as a back-up for 
business continuity.
UK retail network
We are focussed on selling retail services to our retail networks.  Net revenues from 
these services have increased 25% in the year.  These services include parcels, ATMs, 
SIM cards, debit and credit card acceptance, receipt advertising and money transfer.  
Our retail network in the UK has provided energy clients with a service to rebate cash 
to consumers, which reverses the traditional flow of money in our retailers.  We are 
currently negotiating the contract following our success in winning the DWP’s tender 
for a service to replace giro cheque benefits which provides us with a scale opportunity 
to extend cash out.  
Romanian retail network
Increasing bill payment volumes have continued to provide growth in Romania and we 
will launch money transfer services this year.  In addition, we are adding new sites to 
cover more neighbourhoods and optimising existing sites to improve their profitability.  
This business should break even in the current year.
Internet
Alongside the introduction of new systems referred to above, we expect to sign up 
further new merchants and to benefit from the introduction of new card scheme 
sponsors, including HSBC International for 38 countries and BNP for France, driving 
growth in profits. These activities will increasingly position PayPoint.net as an 
international provider and will add profitable growth.
Virtual terminal
Our new virtual terminal is the result 
of significant investment to integrate 
PayPoint’s payment services into retailers’ 
own EPoS systems. It enables customers 
to pay their bills at all tills in a store 
while they pay for their shopping, rather 
than having to visit a dedicated counter. 
Transactions are entered in the normal 
way and the details shown on the till’s 
screen and the customer’s receipt. This 
reduces costs for both the retailer and  
us, enabling us to recycle terminals to 
other retailers.
“Transaction times are much quicker
with the new virtual terminal and our 
staff no longer need to spend time at 
the end of the day reconciling payments 
recorded and cash taken. This is a real 
service improvement.”
Paul Taylor, General Manager –
Marketing, Martin McColl
ATMs
PayPoint ATMs are ‘self-fill’, allowing 
retailers to fill the machines with cash 
taken at the PayPoint terminal, avoiding 
the need for a costly cash-in-transit 
operation. The retailer benefits as an in-
store ATM attracts more customers, who, 
having withdrawn cash from the ATM, 
generally spend more in the store.
The ATM also provides retailers with 
additional commission and saves them 
an average of £750 to £1,000 a year 
in bank charges, which they would 
otherwise have to pay to deposit cash 
into their bank. The PayPoint ATM  
estate grew from 2,367 to 2,538 during 
the year.
“I have definitely noticed that customers 
who get cash out spend more in my 
shop, which is great for my profits. I also 
earn valuable commission on the cash 
withdrawals and I saved over £1,000 in 
banking costs last year.”
Mr J Arshad, independent retailer,
Manchester PayPoint plc annual report 2011 5
PayByPhone
PayByPhone, one of the worldwide leaders in mobile phone parking, has the potential 
to replace traditional parking meters in many major cities around the world. We have 
added significant sales and development resources and we are currently tendering to 
several large parking authorities as well as a large number of smaller opportunities in 
the UK, France and North America. Sales lead times are extended in this market, but 
our momentum is encouraging.  We have spent more heavily than anticipated and a 
further loss will result in the current year.   We expect it to turn to profit in the year 
ending March 2013.
Collect+
Our parcels joint venture (50:50) with Yodel has progressed strongly, with substantial 
endorsement from the online retailing community and resulting growth in transaction 
volumes.   We expect them to grow further this year as we sign more home shopping 
clients for returns and deliveries.  A recently introduced consumer to consumer service 
is being extended to smaller packets and is expected to grow significantly this year, as 
we target online traders. This joint venture processes around two million transactions 
per annum (based on transaction volumes in March 2011) and is making good progress 
towards its breakeven volume of 6-8 million parcels, which we expect to reach in the 
year ending March 2013. 
Our plans for the current year:
We will continue to make further progress in the four elements of our strategy to 
increase shareholder value: more payment/channel options, specialism in vertical 
markets, value added services and geographic reach. We plan to make good progress 
in both the established and developing business streams, notably through continuing 
growth in retail services and internet payments, by turning the Romanian retail 
network profitable through an increase in bill payment market share, and by adding 
new customers in Collect+ and PayByPhone.
We are increasingly benefiting from the synergy between our various business streams, 
with more clients taking multi-channel services. We aim to push this dynamic more 
strongly over time, as newer business areas bed in and system platforms can be 
developed across the group. We are strengthening the management in our UK retail 
network to ensure senior management attention is directed proportionately to the 
developing business streams.
PayPoint is one of the best placed companies to make further gains in the fast moving 
payment industry and has a market leading position in retail services, on which we 
intend to build.
Dominic Taylor
26 May 2011
PayByPhone and cash parking
Following the acquisition of PayByPhone 
in March 2010, we have integrated the 
mobile phone capability of PayByPhone 
with our UK retail network to enable 
parking clients to offer their consumers 
a cash payment option. This will enable 
local authorities to reduce or even 
dispense with pay and display machines, 
with many economic benefits, while 
continuing to ensure that motorists who 
don’t pay by card have a convenient 
alternative.
“PayByPhone is a stress-free way to pay 
for parking - quick, secure and no more 
hunting for the right change.”
Councillor Bassam Mahfouz, London
Borough of Ealing
SIM cards
PayPoint has streamlined the traditional
distribution of SIM cards to retailers by
establishing direct relationships with 
all the major operators and MVNOs.  
PayPoint buys the SIM cards and agents 
order single and mixed value packs using 
their PayPoint terminal.  Agents receive 
commission for sales and activations.
“PayPoint’s SIM card commission rates 
are fantastic. Over the last 12 months, 
I’ve sold more than 3,600 SIM cards 
which have been activated and topped 
up, earning me thousands in commission.”
Mohammed Jahangir, Mirpur Food
Store, Birmingham
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
