 Patsystems Plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 06
Business Review
Chief Executive’ s  
Report 
The sales opportunities that had been 
progressing during the closing  
months of 2008 were converted into 
contracted sales in 2009. I am 
particularly delighted by the exchange 
system sales to the Indonesian 
Commodity and Derivatives Exchange 
and also the Turkish Derivatives 
Exchange, the first trading system 
sales in Brazil, Malaysia and Korea  
and the risk system sales to JP Morgan 
and Prudential Bache.
W e	have	seen	sales	success	for	all	of	our	
pr oduct	of ferings,	and	in	many	cases	the	
sales	success	has	been	for	a	combination	
of	our	pr oducts	to	deliver	an	end-to-end	
solution	to	support	our	customers’	
business	gr owth	plans.
Trading Systems and Market 
Connectivity
The	trading	systems	business	deliver ed	8%	
gr owth	in	r evenues	over	2008	and	was	
the	most	successful	year	to	date	with	
annual	sales	of	£17.6	million.	This	success	
was	despite	the	collapse	of	Lehman	
Br others	Inc	and	the	r esulting	loss	of	£0.8	
million	r evenue	contribution	that	we	
would	have	expected	fr om	this	customer	
in	2009.
During	the	year	new	and	existing	
customers	installed	trading	systems	in	
Brazil,	Kor ea,	Malaysia,	Singapor e	and	
T okyo.
One	of	Patsystems’	key	dif fer entiators	
fr om	our	competitors	is	the	br eadth	of	
market	connectivity	we	of fer .	In	2009	
BM&F	(Brazil),	Bursa	Malaysia,	EDX	
(London),	SAFEX	(South	Africa),	SICOM	
(Singapor e),	SMX	(Singapor e)	and	T aiwan	
Futur es	Exchange	wer e	all	added	as	
market	connections.
Patsystems’	trading	system	continues	to	
dif fer entiate	itself	in	the	market	place	in	
thr ee	key	ar eas:
The	ability	to	distribute	the	J-T rader	 •	
trading	 scr een	 pr oduct	 easily	 and	 at	 low	
cost	acr oss	the	inter net;
The	capability	of	Patsystems’	published	 •	
connection	pr otocol	which	means	that	
thir d	 parties	 can	 write	 to	 the	 Patsystems	
trading	system	once,	but	be	connected	
to	all	of	our	available	market	
connectivity;
The	depth	of	functionality	within	the	 •	
Pr o-Mark	pr ofessional	trading	tool		
and	its	market	leading	spr eading	
functionality .
Pr o-Mark	has	continued	its	successful	
gr owth	in	2009	with	the	number	of	
billable	users	rising	fr om	571	at	the		
start	of	the	year	to	723	at	the	end	of	
December	2009.
Our	r eplacement	or der	management	
system,	Global	T rading,	has	been	subject	
to	extensive	validation	in	2009	with		
its	performance	and	capabilities	tested	
extensively	acr oss	our	full	range	of	
exchanges,	pr oducts	and	volumes.		
The	pr oduct	has	been	deliver ed	into	a	
customer	for	testing	and	will	be	deployed	
into	our	hosted	envir onment	and	initial	
customer	sites	in	2010.
Exchange Systems
2009	has	seen	the	r esurgence	of	sales	in	
our	exchange	systems	business.	It	is	our	
opinion	that	Patsystems	has	a	unique	
pr oposition	in	the	global	market	place	
with	our	ability	to	pr ovide	exchange	
matching,	clearing,	trading	and	risk	
capability	as	an	integrated	package	and	
this	year’ s	success	r eflects	that.
W e	believe	that	ther e	ar e	opportunities	
acr oss	the	globe	for	smaller	or	newly	
established	commodity	or	financial	futur es	
exchanges	that	want	a	complete	end-to-
end	technology	solution	and	wish	to	
sour ce	this	fr om	a	single	supplier .
The	Indonesian	Commodity	and	
Derivatives	Exchange	has	adopted	the	
Patsystems	trading	system	and	exchange	
matching	pr oducts	to	fulfil	its	vision	of	
enabling	market	participants	to	trade	
r egional	commodity	pr oducts	such	as	
crude	palm	oil,	coal,	natural	gas,	cocoa,	
cof fee	and	tin	within	the	Asian	time	zone.	
The	market	will	be	fully	operational	early	
in	2010	in	a	pr oject	that	commenced	in	
summer	2009.
The	T urkish	Derivatives	Exchange	
(‘T urkDEX’)	has	contracted	to	install	the	
complete	suite	of	Patsystems’	pr oducts	
and	will	be	allowing	T akasbank,	their	
clearing	house	access	to	the	Risk	Informer	
pr oduct	to	benefit	their	clearing	services.	
T urkDEX	has	experienced	substantial	
business	gr owth	over	the	last	five	years	
and	in	2009	was	ranked	the	world’ s	22nd	
largest	futur es	exchange	by	volume,	with	
ambitions	for	further	gr owth.	T urkDEX	
selected	Patsystems	after	an	extensive	
global	selection	pr ocess	because	they	wer e	
confident	that	Patsystems’	technology	
would	ensur e	the	exchange	achieves	its	
futur e	gr owth	plans.	
billable users of Pro-Mark
723 Business Review
07
Patsystems Plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Growth Strategy
•	 Incr ease 	 the 	 level 	 of 	 technology 	 spend 	 at 	 existing 	 and 	 new	
customer sites
• 	 C o n t i n u e 	 t o 	 e x t e n d 	 t h e 	 b r e a d t h 	 o f 	 c o m m o d i t y 	 t y p e s 	 a n d	
markets supported by the trading systems 
•	 Extend 	 geographical 	 coverage 	 to 	 emerging 	 gr owth 	 markets
• 	 C o n t i n u e 	 t o 	 d e v e l o p 	 t e c h n o l o g y 	 s o l u t i o n s 	 b o t h 	 a s	
components and single solutions
The	T urkDEX	pr oject	commenced	in	
autumn	2009	and	the	exchange	will	go	
live	with	the	complete	pr oduct	suite	late		
in	2010.
The	only	disappointment	in	2009	was	the	
news	that	the	T okyo	Grain	Exchange	
would	be	curtailing	its	business	activities	
due	to	adverse	trading	conditions	in	Japan	
and	the	impact	of	legislative	changes.		
This	r educed	our	anticipated	r evenue	fr om	
the	T okyo	Grain	Exchange	by	£0.1	million	
in	2009	and	with	a	r esulting	impact	in	
futur e	years.
Revenue	fr om	the	exchange	systems	
business	was	£3.0	million	for	the	year	
compar ed	to	£1.5	million	in	2008.
Risk Systems
Risk	Informer	is	our	market	leading	risk	
pr oduct	for	pr oviding	r eal-time	risk	margin	
information	on	client,	exchange	or	
pr oduct	positions	r egar dless	of	asset	class.
The	portfolio	of	blue	chip	customers	using	
the	Risk	Informer	pr oduct	has	gr own	in	
2009	with	both	JP	Morgan	and	Prudential	
Bache	pur chasing	the	pr oduct.	Risk	
Informer	was	licensed	as	part	of	the	
T urkDEX	pr oject	but	the	pr oduct	will		
not	be	installed	until	2010	which	is	
consequently	when	that	r evenue	will		
be	r ecognised. Patsystems Plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 08
Business Review
Chief Executive’ s  
Report continued
growth in business with existing clients in Asia
+
26%
Robust solutions  &    regional expertise
Risk	Informer	has	consistently	been	
selected	ahead	of	other	competitors’	
pr oducts	because	of	its	pr oven	scalability ,	
ease	of	integration	and	powerful		
analytical	tools.
W e	have	concluded	that	the	pr e-trade	risk	
capabilities	within	our	r ecently	developed	
pr oduct,	Risk	Alert,	would	be	mor e	
valuable	if	they	wer e	integrated	into	a	
single	risk	of fering	spanning	pr e-	and	
post-trade	activity .	This	pr oject	will	be	
pr ogr essed	in	2010.
Revenue	fr om	our	risk	systems	was	£1.5	
million	compar ed	to	£1.7	million	in	2008.	
(This	does	not	include	the	contribution	
fr om	the	T urkDEX	sale	which	will	be	
r ecognised	in	2010.)
Geographical Review
Asia Pacific
The	Asia	Pacific	r egion	has	had	an	
excellent	year ,	both	in	terms	of	gr owing	
business	with	existing	clients	and	winning	
new	business.	Business	with	existing	
clients	gr ew	by	26%	and	new	wins	in	the	
r egion	included	the	sale	of	our	Exchange	
and	T rading	System	to	the	Indonesian	
Commodity	and	Derivatives	Exchange	and	
sales	 of	 T rading	 Systems	 in	 Kor ea,	 Malaysia	
and	T okyo.	Sales	in	Asia	Pacific	account	for	
37%	(2008:	27%)	of	Gr oup	r evenues.
Europe
The	Eur opean	r egion	has	continued	to	
gr ow	during	2009	despite	the	pr evailing	
economic	climate.	Revenues	fr om	existing	
clients	gr ew	by	5%	and	new	wins	included	
the	sale	of	our	Exchange,	T rading	and	Risk	
Systems	to	T urkDEX	and	our	Risk	System	to	
JP	Morgan.	Sales	in	Eur ope	account	for	
34%	(2008:	35%)	of	Gr oup	r evenues.
North America
The	North	America	r egion	has	performed	
well	against	the	backdr op	of	the	pr evailing	
economic	climate	and	the	loss	of	one	of		
its	major	customers	–	Lehman	Br others	
Inc.	In	2008	Lehman	Br others	contributed	
r evenue	of	£0.8	million	against	almost	
nothing	in	2009.	Revenue	fr om	existing	
clients	was	br oadly	neutral	compar ed	to	
2008.	New	wins	in	the	r egion	included		
the	sale	and	installation	of	Risk	Informer	
to	Prudential	Bache.	Sales	in	North	
America	account	for	29%	(2008:	38%)		
of	Gr oup	r evenues.
Staff
Overall	staf f	numbers	have	marginally	
incr eased	with	162	employees	at	31	
December	2009	compar ed	to	156	on		
1	January	2009.
During	the	year	five	staf f	have	taken	the	
opportunity	to	seek	personal	development	
by	way	of	secondment	or	permanent	
transfers	between	our	of fices.
During	2009	we	moved	some	of	our	
support	operations	fr om	our	of fice	in	
Singapor e	to	Sydney	to	take	advantage	of	
a	gr eater	availability	of	multi-lingual	staf f.	
T o	support	our	continued	and	anticipated	
gr owth	in	Asia	we	have	established	a	
development	centr e	in	Beijing.	Ther e	ar e	
now	19	staf f	working	in	Beijing,	primarily	
developing	market	connectivity	for	the	
Asia	r egion	and	pr oviding	additional	
r esour ces	whilst	staf f	in	London	work	on	
major	pr ojects	such	as	that	for	the	T urkish	
Derivatives	Exchange.
Business Strategy
Patsystems’	business	objective	is	to	be	the	
exter nal	partner	of	choice	for	investment	
banks,	futur es	clearing	mer chants,	and	
exchanges	for	the	pr ovision	of	electr onic	
trading,	trade	matching	and	risk	
management	technology . Patsystems Plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 09
Business Review
Indonesian Commodity and 
Derivatives Exchange (‘ICDX’) 
After	an	extensive	global	selection	pr ocess,	
the	 Indonesian	 Commodity	 and	 Derivatives	
Exchange	(‘ICDX’)	selected	Patsystems	to	
pr ovide	an	integrated	exchange,	trading	
and	risk	management	solution.	The	
solution	will	consist	of	a	complete	
exchange	system	with	straight	thr ough	
pr ocessing,	matching,	clearing	and	
settlement	capabilities,	supported	by	the	
Patsystems	Matching	Engine.	The	solution	
will	also	include	Patsystems’	trading	
softwar e	with	inter net-deployable	
fr ont-end	platforms,	J-T rader	and	
Pr o-Mark,	along	with	Patsystems’	
pr e-trade	risk	management.	The	selection	
by	ICDX	illustrates	the	br eadth	of	
Patsystems’	capabilities,	with	flexible	
solutions	that	can	be	used	independently ,	
or	in	this	case,	integrated	into	one	
compr ehensive	Straight-Thr ough-
Pr ocessing	System.
Robust solutions  &    regional expertise
1
The	organic	gr owth	strategy	of	the	
business	has	four	components:
Incr ease	the	level	of	technology	spend	 •	
at	existing	and	new	customers	fr om	the	
existing	Patsystems	pr oducts
Continue	to	extend	the	br eadth	of	 •	
commodity	types	and	markets	
supported	by	the	trading	systems	by	
both	building	connectivity	and	
pr oviding	matching	technology	dir ectly	
to	exchanges
Extend	geographical	coverage	to	 •	
emerging	gr owth	markets
Continue	to	develop	technology	 •	
solutions	both	as	components	and	
single	solutions
Patsystems	has	demonstrated	pr ogr ess		
in	all	ar eas	of	the	gr owth	strategy		
during	2009.
The	acquisition	strategy	is	to	identify	and	
acquir e	businesses	that	pr ovide	
complimentary	technology	and	wher e	
shar eholder	value	can	be	cr eated	by	selling	
that	technology	thr ough	the	Patsystems	
global	sales	organisation.
Business Objectives and Outlook
Our	key	objectives	for	2010	ar e	as	follows:
Solidify	our	position	as	the	pr emier	 •	
pr ovider	of	risk	margin	systems	within	
the	world’ s	top	global	banks
Extend	our	sales	penetration	in	new	 •	
countries	with	additional	sales	in	
Malaysia,	Indonesia	and	Brazil
Deliver	hosted	services	to	new	and	 •	
existing	 customers	 within	 all	 the	 r egions	
we	operate
Continue	the	2009	sales	success	for	our	 •	
exchange	system	of fering
T rading	subsequent	to	the	year	end	has	
pr ogr essed	in	line	with	our	expectations	
and	we	r emain	confident	of	fulfilling		
our	gr owth	aspirations	acr oss	all	ar eas		
of	the	business.
David Webber
Chief	Executive	
8	February	2010
