 Overview
Patsystems Plc
Annual report & accounts 2010 06
Patsystems Plc
Annual report & accounts 2010
“ 2010 was a year with a mixed performance across the 
business. We saw some notable sales successes, such as the 
new customers for our exchange system offering, tempered 
against deferred sales opportunities for our risk product and 
marginal growth within our trading systems business.  
 
The Group continues to demonstrate continued cash 
generation and profit resilience and we expect this to 
continue in 201 1 and beyond. The continued payment and 
growth in the level of the dividend is an important statement 
by the Board of our continued confidence in the growth 
prospects for the business. 
 
Patsystems commences 201 1 with an encouraging sales 
pipeline that will provide opportunity to expand our 
geographical presence and grow the revenues for each  
of our product offerings. ”
Chairman’s Statement
Positioned for future growth
2010 was a year with a mixed 
performance across the business. We 
saw some notable sales successes, such 
as the new customers for our exchange 
system offering, tempered against 
deferred sales opportunities for our risk 
product and marginal growth within our 
trading systems business. I am pleased 
that the business has continued to 
expand into new growth markets with 
sales success for our exchange offering  
in Argentina and Vietnam.
In 2010, Patsystems established hosting 
centres in Chicago, Hong Kong, Tokyo, 
Singapore and Sydney in order to deliver 
a fully-managed Application Service 
Provider (‘ASP’) offering to both existing 
and new customers. Further investment 
will be made in 2011 in establishing 
hosting centres in London and São Paulo 
and implementing a global wide-area 
network between the centres.
The business’ global ASP offering is 
being promoted as Patsystems XConnect 
and is expected to be an important 
contributor to trading systems revenue 
growth in 2011.
Financial Results
Adjusted pre-tax profit (being profit 
before tax after adjusting for share 
option costs, marking to market of 
derivatives used to hedge cash flows and 
amortisation of intangibles other than 
internally developed software) for the full 
year ended 31 December 2010 was £3.8 
million compared to £3.9 million in 2009. 
Adjusted pre-tax profit is the definition 
of profit used by analysts to measure the 
performance of the Group.
Diluted earnings per share (‘EPS’) on this 
basis was 2p per share, the same as last 
year. Details of these calculations are set 
out in the Earnings Per Share section of 
the Finance Director’s Review on pages 
12 to 13.
Profit before income tax for the full year 
ended 31 December 2010 was £3.2 
million compared to £4.5 million in 2009. 
Diluted EPS was 1.4p per share 
(2009:1.8p).
Turnover for the year amounted to £22.1 
million (2009: £22.1 million) of which 
£13.7 million (2009: £13.2 million) is 
annuity revenue that derives from a 
combination of the provision of trading  Patsystems Plc
Annual report & accounts 2010
Overview
Patsystems Plc
Annual report & accounts 2010 07
screens and market access on a 
‘software-as-a-service’ rental model. 
When combined with revenue from 
contracted support and maintenance of 
our order routing technology, this means 
77% of the turnover is on a recurring 
annual basis (2009: 82%).
Geographical Review
Asia Pacific
The Asia Pacific region had a positive 
year with several significant new sales 
wins. The Patsystems’ Exchange and 
Trading System was adopted by the 
newly launched Vietnamese Commodity 
Exchange (‘VNX’) in Ho Chi Minh City 
and Bursa Malaysia Derivatives selected 
Patsystems as the provider of its new 
order management system. In addition 
NewEdge, a major existing customer  
and a number of new customers across 
the region adopted the Patsystems  
XConnect ASP solution. Sales in Asia 
Pacific account for 39% (2009: 37%)  
of Group revenues.
Europe
In Europe, we continued to grow the 
business during the year despite the 
increasingly long sales cycles. The 
long-term project to replace the 
exchange, risk and trading systems for 
TurkDEX continued throughout 2010 and 
is progressing to plan. Macquarie Bank 
Limited in Europe selected Patsystems’ 
post trade risk system, Risk Informer, for 
their exchange traded derivatives 
business. Sales in Europe account for 
35% (2009: 34%) of Group revenues.
Americas
The Americas region had a challenging 
year with the revenue contribution from 
existing clients failing to recover from 
2008 levels and the loss of £0.8 million 
revenue from Lehman Brothers Inc.  
The sales campaign into South America 
was rewarded by Mercado a Término  
de Buenos Aires (‘MATba’) selecting 
Patsystems as its key technology provider 
as it prepares to extend electronic trading 
capability to its existing open outcry 
operations. Sales in the Americas 
account for 26% (2009: 29%) of  
Group revenues.
Dividend
Patsystems has demonstrated continued 
cash generation and profit resilience and 
we expect this to continue in 2011 and 
beyond. As a result of this, together with 
our strong year end cash position, the 
Board is recommending the payment of 
a second interim dividend of 0.35p based 
on the results for 2010 as a whole, 
bringing the total dividend for the year to 
0.55p per share, compared to a total of 
0.425p for 2009. This gives a year on 
year growth of 29% in our dividend and 
the dividend remains well covered at 4 
times. The continued payment and 
growth in the level of the dividend is an 
important statement by the Board of our 
continued confidence in the growth 
prospects for the business.
The second interim dividend will be paid 
on 8 April 2011 to shareholders on the 
register as at 4 March 2011. 
Board, Management and Staff
On behalf of the Non-Executive 
Directors, I would like to thank the 
Executive Directors, the senior 
management team and all the 
Patsystems’ staff for all their hard  
work and dedication during the year. 
Steve Sparke resigned from the Board 
during the year due to increasing time 
commitments from his other executive 
business interests and on behalf of the 
Board I would like to thank Steve for his 
support and contribution since he joined 
the Board in 2006. 
I am delighted to welcome Stewart 
Douglas-Mann back to the Board; 
Stewart retired from the Board in 2007 
but has been operating as a consultant 
to the Board for the intervening period. 
On a personal note I should also like to 
thank John Priestley for his support 
during the year, his commitment and 
dedication to the business has been 
greatly appreciated. 
Customers and Shareholders
Many of our customers have endured 
significant market and business change 
during 2009 and 2010 and as such I am 
grateful for their ongoing support and 
for providing opportunities that enabled 
Patsystems to continue develop and 
grow its product and service propositions. 
I would also like to thank our shareholders 
for their continued support during 2010.
Future
In 2011, Patsystems expects that the 
significant investment in our global ASP 
offering, Patsystems XConnect, will 
stimulate recurring revenue growth 
within our trading systems business. We 
expect to see further opportunities to 
grow our exchange systems business 
across the globe with the additional 
functionality we developed as part of the 
project with TurkDEX. A number of 
opportunities exist to sell our risk product 
into major global banks, but as was 
experienced in 2010 a degree of caution 
must be exercised due to the long 
decision timescales and the change of 
strategic priorities that can take place 
within global banks during the product 
procurement process.
With offices in Singapore, Hong Kong, 
Sydney and Tokyo, Patsystems is well 
placed in the Asian and emerging market 
areas to provide end-to-end solutions for 
commodity futures exchanges and 
promoting the Patsystems XConnect 
offering for trading system adoption. 
Within established markets promotion of 
our post-trade risk offering will continue 
and offering our trading solutions by way 
of Patsystems XConnect.
Patsystems commences 2011 with  
an encouraging sales pipeline that  
will provide opportunity to expand  
our geographical presence and grow  
the revenues for each of our  
product offerings.
Richard Last
Chairman, Non-Executive Director
7 February 2011
