 Overview
Patsystems Plc
Annual report & accounts 2010 01
Overview
About Patsystems
Highlights
Financial Highlights
>  Total revenue £22.1 million  
(2009: £22. 1 million)
>  Adjusted pre-tax profit at £3.8 million  
(2009: £3.9 million)*
>  Cash and cash equivalents increased to  
£9.3 million (2009: £8.9 million)
>  Proposed full year dividend increased 29%  
to 0.55p per share (2009: 0.425p per share)
* adjusted for share option costs, marking to market of derivatives used to hedge 
cash flows and amortisation of intangibles other than internally developed software
Operational Highlights
>  Continued expansion into new growth markets 
with sales success for exchange offering in 
Argentina and Vietnam
>  Hosting centres established in Chicago, Hong 
Kong, Tokyo, Singapore and Sydney to deliver  
a fully-managed Application Service Provider 
(‘ASP’) to existing and new customers
>  Business’ global ASP offering promoted as 
Patsystems XConnect making anticipated contribution 
to trading systems revenue growth in 20 1 1
>  Bursa Malaysia Derivatives selected Patsystems as 
the provider of its new order management system
Patsystems delivers tailored solutions, built from  
modular components, to enhance derivatives trading 
performance and trade processing. Our solutions include 
real-time risk management tools, comprehensive 
exchange systems and robust trading systems with 
extensive market connectivity . 
We work in partnership with our customers to deliver 
robust systems that align with their business strategies 
– and have done since our foundation in 1994. 
The world’ s leading banks, trading houses, hedge 
funds and professional traders rely on Patsystems to 
facilitate the electronic trading of derivatives, FX, 
energy and other asset classes. Overview
Patsystems Plc
Annual report & accounts 2010 02
Patsystems Plc
Annual report & accounts 2010
Global Opportunities
Patsystems operates from a global network  
of offices covering all major derivatives  
trading centres.
With connectivity to over 60 exchanges  
and a network of more than 50 customers 
throughout Europe, the Middle East, the 
Americas and Asia Pacific, Patsystems enables 
over 10,000 traders to transact in the global 
derivatives market every month. 
Exchange Connectivity Overview 
North America
With strategically located offices in Chicago and New York, 
Patsystems provides low-latency access to some of the world’s 
largest futures exchanges.
Central and South America
Patsystems provides access to Latin America with connectivity  
to exchanges such as the Mexican Derivatives Exchange and 
BM&FBOVESPA.
Europe
From London to Paris, Brussels to Madrid, Patsystems  
offers connectivity to numerous leading futures exchanges  
throughout Europe.
Africa and the Middle East
Patsystems provides access to some of the leading exchanges  
in Africa and the Middle East including the Turkish Derivatives 
Exchange (‘TurkDEX’) and the South African Futures Exchange.
Asia Pacific
Patsystems’ leading position within Asia Pacific is the result of 
over 10 years’ investment in the region and extensive connectivity 
to futures exchanges in Australia, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, 
Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan and Vietnam.
Key Customers
As our customers expand into new and emerging markets,  
they naturally look to Patsystems as a key partner with our  
global presence, easily deployable software and extensive 
exchange connectivity.
Hong Kong
8 customers
London
16 customers Patsystems Plc
Annual report & accounts 2010
Overview
Patsystems Plc
Annual report & accounts 2010 03
Customers
Patsystems XConnect Hubs – existing
Patsystems XConnect Hubs – in development
Offices
Singapore
11 customers
Sydney
2 customers
Tokyo
7 customers
Chicago
15 customers
New Y ork
2 customers
