 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 01
2008
2007 6.08
6.75
Revenue (£m)
2008
2007 141.88
148.38
Operating profit before exceptional items (£m)
2008
2007 18.33
20.39
Free cash flow (£m)
Dividends paid (£m)
2008
2007 (12.32)
(1.20)
Key Performance Indicators U.K. Operations
10
11
01
10
09
08
07
03
02
06
04
05
Head Office
01 Cumbernauld
Regional Office
05 Middlebrook
Sales Branch
04 Newcastle
06 Moston
07 Sheffield
09 Wednesbury
10 Walthamstow
Distribution Depot
01 Cumbernauld
Factory
01 Cumbernauld 
02 Forfar
03 Pitcox 
08 Mansfield
  02 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Review of Results
Profit before taxation for the year to January
2008 was – excluding exceptional items –
£21.3m compared with £19.1m for the
previous year. This increase of 11.4%
represents an excellent overall performance 
in a year of dismal summer weather and also
reflects the improvement in operating costs
resulting from the infrastructure changes
completed during the year.
The exceptional items produced a net charge
of £0.5m. This was a substantial reduction
from the charge of £2.8m incurred last year
and represented the final costs of our recent
restructuring process.
Turnover for the year to January 2008 was
£148.4m – an increase of 4.6% over the
previous year. Adjusting for the turnover 
of the Strathmore Water business which 
was acquired in June 2006, the like-for-like
increase was 2.7%.
The tax charge for the current year is again
very low at 19% of the profit on ordinary
activities compared with the corporation 
tax rate of 30% applicable to the year. The
difference is substantially due to a reduction
of £1.3m in the company’s tax charge for this
year related to the disposal of properties at
the conclusion of our restructuring process.
Basic earnings per share have risen from
69.65p to 86.75p and your directors are
pleased to recommend a final dividend 
of 28.00p per share to give a total dividend 
for the year to January 2008 of 39.00p – an
increase of 11.4%. It is worth noting that over
the last six years we have been able to raise
the total dividend for the year from 21.60p 
to 39.00p – an overall increase of 80.6%.
People
On behalf of our external shareholders 
I would again like to take this opportunity 
to thank all our employees for their efforts
during this year. The excellent results achieved
are particularly creditable given both the
distraction of completing the infrastructure
changes and the exceptionally poor summer
weather experienced this year in comparison
with 2006.
Board
We announced in January that the current
year would see the retiral of two long serving
executive directors.
Alan Bibby, Operations Director, retired 
on 29th February. He joined the company 
in 1977 and was appointed to the board 
in 1985. Iain Greenock who will retire at the 
end of June joined the company in 1975 
and was appointed Finance Director in 1998.
Throughout these long periods of service
both Alan and Iain have consistently given 
a level of application and professionalism
which has contributed substantially to the
company’s success over that time and 
I would like to thank them on behalf of 
all our shareholders and wish them both
well in their retirement.
After the conclusion of an exhaustive
recruitment process I am pleased to 
confirm that we have been able to appoint
two capable and experienced candidates 
to the vacant positions. Andrew Memmott, 
who joined the company in 1990 and was
most recently Head of Manufacturing, was
appointed Operations Director on 1st March.
We also anticipate the appointment on 
1st July of Alex Short as Finance Director.
Alex is currently Group Finance Director of
William Grant & Sons Ltd, a major company 
in the alcoholic drinks industry. I look forward
to the contributions that these two new
board members will make to the company.
Prospects
Competition within the soft drinks industry
remains intense and is now spread over 
the much wider range of products which
today’s consumer demands. To meet this
change we have continued to widen our own
portfolio into those categories which offer
prospects of profitable growth while, at the
same time, we remain aware that traditional
carbonates will for the future remain the
largest soft drinks category. We are confident
that the strength of our core brands in that
category will enable us to successfully
develop the widening portfolio with which 
we are now engaged.
Robin Barr Chairman
“...over the last six years we have
been able to raise the total dividend
for the year from 21.60p to 39.00p –
an overall increase of 80.6%. ” 
Chairman’s
Statement
IRN-BRU
IRN-BRU stole the show at the Scottish Advertising
Awards 2007 in Glasgow. It was the 21st year of the
awards ceremony and IRN-BRU was awarded The
Best Brand, The Best Slogan for ‘made in Scotland
from Girders’ , Best Radio commercial, Best Poster
and Best Advertising Campaign in the last 21 years.
The phenomenal evening was completed by IRN-BRU’s
snowman advert winning the Grand Prix Award. This 
is an award given to the best overall advert of the year.
Robin Barr Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2008 03
“Over the course of the last 
financial year our business 
has delivered a strong 
overall performance. ”
Chief Executive’s
Statement
Basic earnings per share (p)
2008
2007
2006 65.06
69.65
86.75
Dividends for financial year (p)
2008
2007
2006 31.75
35.00
39.00
Roger White Chief Executive
Financial Performance
Over the course of the last financial year 
our business has delivered a strong overall
performance. We have continued to execute
our value based growth strategy and despite
the extremely poor summer weather and 
its consequential impact on the soft drinks
market we have delivered growth in sales
revenue, operating margin and profit, at 
the same time as we further invested in our
brands and assets. The pace of operational
change has continued to be challenging but
we remain confident in our ability to deliver
improved financial performance even in times
of significant change.
Although the poor summer weather impacted
the soft drinks market we continued to make
good financial progress with pre-tax profit,
before exceptionals, increasing by 11.4% from
£19.1m to £21.3m. This strong performance
was underpinned by improvements in
operating margins reflecting the impact of the
benefits in our Scottish supply chain project
beginning to flow through.
Total sales grew by 4.6% from £141.9m to
£148.4m in the period (2.7% on a like-for-like
basis adjusting for the Strathmore Water
business acquired in June 2006), highlighting
the resilient nature of our brands which 
have collectively grown market share across
the year. 
Although we continued to manage our
business primarily focusing on value not
volume, we did, as previously indicated,
marginally increase our promotional weight 
in the multiple retailers sector across the
summer period. This initiative in tandem
with our ongoing development of the impulse
market and a strong control over costs
ensured that we successfully delivered our
business targets across the summer period
despite the challenging market conditions.
Operating profit before exceptionals increased
by 11.2% and the operating margin improved
in line with our expectations from 12.9% to
13.7%. Further improvement to operating
margin is expected from our restructuring
programme although increased marketing
support costs are planned as we further
develop our brand portfolio for the long-term.
Capital spend in the period was £12.5m 
and, although lower than the prior year, it was
higher than long-term average levels as we
completed our major restructuring projects.
During the second half of the year we
completed the clearance of and exit from 
our Atherton site. This location is now 
surplus to our operating requirements and 
a marketing process has now commenced.
Despite our high level of capital spend, 
we were able as a consequence of our
continued focus on cash management to 
exit the year with £17 .9m of cash in the bank.
Tizer
Tizer’s distinctive poster and magazine advertising
campaign supported the introduction of the brand’s
new more natural formulation containing 10% real
fruit juice with no artificial flavourings, no artificial
sweeteners and no artificial colours and helped the
brand to achieve a 15% increase in sales during 
the re-launch period. 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
We acquired the Vitsmart and Vitaminsmart
brands from Chartered Brands in December
2007 for a potential total consideration 
of £350,000. This acquisition will give us a 
head start in the enhanced waters category
with an existing product range and revenue
streams to quickly build on. The total sales 
of Vitsmart/Vitaminsmart in 2007 were
approximately £1m at retail sales value.
We also announced the acquisition of the
Taut sports drinks business in late January
2008. The business was acquired for 
a nominal sum of £1 and had operating 
losses of c£1.3m in 2006. This acquisition
also gives us a strong point of entry into 
the sports drinks category with a brand that
has already had a significant marketing and
promotion spend behind it and importantly 
a credible position with both consumers and
the trade in this key growth category. The Taut
business will be rapidly consolidated into our
operating structure and we expect that the
operating losses will be stemmed during 
the early part of 2008/09. It is consequently
anticipated that Taut will not have a material
impact on the operating performance of the
business in 2008/09 financial year.
The Market
Over the course of the 2007/08 financial 
year the total soft drinks market grew in
value by 3% however its volume dropped 
by 2% (source Nielsen Scantrack 12 months
to 26th January, 2008). This performance
reflects the difficult year-on-year comparison
in the summer months which contrasted the
U.K.’s hottest summer in 2006 with its wettest
in 2007. This poor summer position was
particularly evident in those sub-categories
which had done best in the summer of 2006
– namely water, dilutables and fruit juice.
Carbonates in comparison performed
relatively better. This was partly due to 
less difficult comparators but further confirms
our view that good quality, well supported
carbonate brands can continue to offer good
growth prospects. In the twelve month period
carbonates were up 4% in value and slightly
down in volume. Within the carbonates
sector the decline of a number of historically
poorer performing non-differentiated fruit
carbonate brands continued.
Regardless of weather the two sub categories
which have consistently performed strongly
over the last two years are sports and energy,
in both still and carbonated format. With
growth in the last twelve months in excess 
of 20% in volume and value these sub
categories continue to form much of the
engine for growth in the category as a whole.
With this in mind it is even more important 
to develop our portfolio into these key areas
of potential for future growth.
During the last twelve months our pence 
per litre (PPL) as measured by Nielsen has
continued to improve, increasing by 2% on
core Barr brands. This growth is marginally
lower than the prior twelve months reflecting
our stated plan of increasing promotional
weight in multiples as well as the highly
competitive nature of the market during 
the difficult summer period. We anticipate 
a return to our historic level of promotional
weight in 2008/09 and consequently 
expect our own PPL to rise at or possibly 
in advance of industry average levels.
“We anticipate a return to our historic
level of promotional weight in 2008/09
and consequently expect our own PPL
to rise at or possibly in advance
of industry average levels. ” In July 2007, at Hampden Park, the home of Scottish
Football, IRN-BRU announced its £3m three year
sponsorship deal with the Scottish Football League. 
The sponsorship represents a major contribution to 
the football landscape of Scotland, its clubs and its
communities. Roger White commented: ‘The passion 
and commitment shown in Scotland towards football 
is inspiring and a great fit for IRN-BRU’ .
“what a 
great result”
  IRN-BRU ACTIVITY
• New IRN-BRU packaging is launched.
• IRN-BRU ‘Feel Phenomenal’ campaign is launched
which consists of a new TV advert shot on the IRN-BRU
revolution ride at Blackpool Pleasure Beach. Four Goths
are featured in the advert which is a ‘homage’ to the
Jim’ll Fixit Cub Scouts story from the 1970’s.
• IRN-BRU announces a new 3 year, £3m sponsorship
deal with the Scottish Football League to sponsor SFL
leagues 1, 2 and 3 which become the IRN-BRU Scottish
Football League 1, 2 and 3. Annual Report and Accounts 2008 05 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Strategy
Our core strategic focus remains 
unchanged and we continue to develop 
our strategy around:
• Core brands and markets
• Portfolio development
• Route to market
• Partnerships
• Efficient operations
In addition, the ongoing development 
of our people underpins each of these 
areas of strategic focus.
Much of our time and effort in the last 
twelve months has been spent in pursuit 
of our goal of building a sustainable future
growth platform for the business.
We have therefore allocated increased
resources towards the areas of core brands
and markets, portfolio development and
partnerships all of which are central to
meeting our future growth aspirations.
Core Brands and Markets
The Barr brands portfolio performed well in
both market share and absolute sales terms
across the year. Although the poor summer
weather had a negative impact on the total
soft drinks market our market share was at 
its strongest in the difficult summer months
demonstrating the underlying brand strength
and consumer demand for our core brands.
The continued focus on product quality 
and consumer preference, in particular 
their taste preferences on a regional basis,
has paid further dividends in improved 
sales performance across our range and
throughout the U.K.
IRN-BRU and Diet IRN-BRU both 
continued to show good year-on-year 
growth increasing sales revenue by over 
3%. Considerable market share gains were
also made especially in England and Wales
where the IRN-BRU brand grew market 
share by 10% in the period. This market
share performance contrasts starkly with
competing other flavoured carbonate brands 
– Fanta and Tango – both of which lost
significant volume and share over the year.
The IRN-BRU brand is now in value share
terms bigger than the combined size of the
Lilt, Sprite and Tango brands. After a huge
initial sales performance IRN-BRU 32 has
settled into a stable rate of sale which reflects
its position in the portfolio as a long-term
product focused on energy drink consumers
specifically in the Scottish market.
In an exciting year for the brand, IRN-BRU
became the main sponsor of the Scottish
Football League cementing its position as 
a prominent supporter of grass roots sports
throughout Scotland. With a combination of
centrally controlled football initiatives balanced
with local club support and activities, this three
year deal gives the IRN-BRU brand a great
platform for communication. In tandem with
the continued increase in overall marketing
investment behind the IRN-BRU brand the
packaging was further updated with the classic
IRN-BRU bottle design now represented
across the whole impulse portfolio and a
higher level of focus behind the 250ml small
bottle range. The IRN-BRU brand is in good
health with the potential to deliver further
exciting developments across 2008/09. The St. Clement’s range has been developed to fit 
in with the new Schools guidelines – and sales are 
very healthy in this sector.
“this’ll keep
my mum
happy and it
tastes great” 60%
100%
Pure Juice in Simply Pure
100%
Juice in Simply Juicy
Juice in St. Clement’s Pure Juice
ST. CLEMENT’S ACTIVITY
• St. Clement’s offers a range of fruit based drinks, 
pure juices and smoothies that really deliver on taste. 
• 21% growth in the St. Clement’s brand following the
launch of new St. Clement’s Juices and Smoothies 
in September 2007. Annual Report and Accounts 2008 07
