 2 PayPoint plc annual report 2012
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report the growth in earnings continued, as a result of good performance 
by our UK retail network and the turnaround to proﬁt in our Romanian network.  
Although losses in Collect+ and PayByPhone have increased, growth in Collect+ remained 
strong with commercial deliveries and consumer to consumer deliveries contributing well 
and we have achieved success in winning new business in PayByPhone.  We have made 
progress in technology, with preparation towards the introduction of the Simple Payment 
service (replacing cheques, due for introduction later this year) for the Department for 
Work and Pensions (DWP), installing virtual terminals, completing the development of a 
broadband communications solution for faster transactions and rolling out new services for 
our retail network, including cash out and money transfer.
In the UK retail network, retail services delivered healthy growth, although mobile top-ups 
continued to decline.  The introduction of the Simple Payment service for the DWP should 
help fuel future growth.
We have made progress in developing transaction reporting tools for PayPoint.net which 
should go live in the second half of the current year and help to secure merchants in 
the gaming sector and win new business.  We expect to develop this reporting tool for 
extension into other channels and markets.  Further investment in a new transaction 
processing platform will also bring more functionality and ﬂexibility in multi-currency, more 
frequent settlement and transaction optimisation.
We have continued to invest in our Romanian retail network by increasing our full service 
terminal estate by 735 sites.  We accept bill payments for 36 clients and transaction 
volumes have increased by 56%. We have started to introduce money transfer under our 
contract with Western Union
®
.
We have extended our parcels service through Collect+, our joint venture with Yodel, 
across our UK retail network. Momentum is strong, with considerable interest among 
major high street and internet retailers and internet marketplaces.  We have over 4,700 
sites handling Collect+ parcels and over 125 online and multichannel retailers live, 
including some of the most respected customer service leaders, including ASOS, New 
Look, Boden, House of Fraser, ASDA Direct and Very.  During the year, parcel volumes  
were up over 3.5 times and, based on March 2012, we handle a run rate of 5 million 
parcels per annum.
In PayByPhone, we have increased the resources in sales, marketing and delivery more than 
we originally planned, to address the increased opportunity.  New mobile phone apps have 
been introduced, making registration and parking easier and we have launched one of 
the largest deployments in near ﬁeld communications in San Francisco.  The costs of the 
increased sales and technology spend have come ahead of the revenue as installations lag sales 
success.  We will continue to invest to stay at the leading edge of this fast moving market.
The combination of sound, proﬁtable growth in both the UK retail network and our 
internet business, substantive progress towards proﬁtable growth in our Romanian retail 
network, gathering momentum in Collect+ and proper resourcing of PayByPhone, have 
positioned the group for further substantial growth.  We are proposing a ﬁnal dividend of 
17.8 pence per share, making a total for the year of 26.5 pence, an increase of 13.2 per 
cent, marking another year of uninterrupted dividend growth since our listing.
For the current ﬁnancial year, trading is in line with the company’s expectations.  This 
is an important year for investment in infrastructure and tools to ensure the efﬁcient 
delivery of future growth.  Our established business (UK and Irish retail networks and 
internet payments) is strong, with further opportunities to enhance retail yield through 
the introduction of new technology and services.  In addition, improvements in our service 
offering to online merchants will provide opportunities for growth. We will beneﬁt from 
rolling out services in our developing business (Collect+, PayByPhone and the Romanian 
retail network), growing our market share and improving proﬁtability.  Together, our 
businesses provide a solid foundation to deliver increasing value for our shareholders.
MyPayPoint 
MyPayPoint, a new extranet, makes it 
easier for agents to keep track of their 
PayPoint payments, commissions and 
other documents. The new system is 
accessed securely over the internet and 
allows agents to check weekly statements 
and payments records, as well as accessing 
commonly used forms, FAQs and a library 
of bulletins and communications normally 
sent by post.  MyPayPoint also has a real 
environmental advantage as, in time, 
it will eliminate the 1 million sheets or 
approximately 5 tonnes of paper used 
annually for sending weekly statements  
to agents.
“Online statements are a clear priority for 
me. With the unreliability of the post and 
paper-based ﬁnancial documents easily 
being lost or misplaced in a busy shop, I 
am delighted that we now have a system 
that makes them available anywhere, any 
time I want them.”  
Mani Dhesi, Nisa Retail, Glasgow
Collect+
Collect+ has extended its service to enable 
consumers and small businesses to send 
parcels to each other and to pick up goods 
bought from retailers online from their 
local Collect+ shop.  Major online retailers 
already providing their customers with this 
option include House of Fraser, ASOS and 
Very, for whom up to one in ﬁve packages 
are now being delivered to Collect+ stores 
for customer collection.
“Consumers are increasingly looking for 
delivery options that ﬁt in with their busy 
lives and our online sales have beneﬁted 
from providing our customers with the 
option to have their purchases delivered to 
a Collect+ shop.”  
Keith Basnett, Group Chief Operating 
Ofﬁcer, Shop Direct Group
David Newlands
24 May 2012
