 2 PayPoint plc annual report 2013 PayPoint plc annual report 2013 3
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CashOut schemes grow
Traditional PayPoint payment transactions, 
energy prepayment, utility payments and 
mobile top-ups involve consumers paying cash 
in at retailers.  PayPoint can now offer clients 
the ability to pay cash out to their customers.  
This is used for the DWP Simple Payment 
service for benefit and pension payments, 
utilities (including British Gas and EDF Energy) 
and most recently by local authorities for 
emergency benefit payments, for which 
they have taken responsibility from central 
government.  Retailers earn commission on 
these schemes and, with the introduction of 
single daily settlement, will benefit from more 
convenient cash management as CashOut 
sums will be deducted from direct debits taken 
for other transactions. In addition, consumers 
are likely to spend some of the money they get 
in store.
“PayPoint’s CashOut scheme has been a 
real success for us in previous years and has 
proven to be the most convenient way for our 
customers to receive their rebates.”
Jackie Kelly, Value Delivery Manager at  
British Gas
PayPoint Romania expands  
payment schemes
PayPoint in Romania is now working with 
the majority of the national utility companies 
in the country and, as their customers have 
become accustomed to paying their bills at 
PayPoint, many of the country’s regional water 
and sanitation service providers have signed 
up with PayPoint to enable them to pay their 
water bills at the same time. Nova ApaServ 
Company in Botoşani county, SC VITAL SA in 
Maramures county, S.C. Salubris S.A., which 
provides public sanitation services in Iasi, and 
The Targoviste Dambovita Water Company, 
a regional operator of water systems and 
sanitation in Dambovita county, have all 
introduced the PayPoint option to their 
customers during the year.
“As well as providing high quality services, 
we also wanted to reduce the time people in 
Maramures spend paying bills, so being able  
to pay them in local neighbourhood stores 
safely and quickly is definitely a great 
advantage for them.”
Geza Gasparik, General Manager of SC VITAL SA
PayPoint has delivered earnings growth in line with market expectations.   Our retail 
businesses (UK & Ireland, Romania and Collect+) have grown and remain highly 
profitable and cash generative.  Our e&m business (PayPoint.net and PayByPhone) has 
made good progress.
The essence of the group’ s capability is the processing of high volume consumer 
transactions, whether payments or value added services (like parcels) through a flexible 
platform, adding value to clients in selected vertical markets.  Payment transactions are 
generally low value and embrace retail, internet and mobile technologies and include 
money flowing both to and from the consumer.  We add value by providing relevant 
additional services to retailers and online merchants across different geographies.  Providing 
greater consumer convenience is core to our proposition. We are able to grow the 
business through selling to more clients in vertical markets, by addressing more verticals, by 
engaging more retailers and more merchants, driving more consumers to use our services.
Strategy
Our strategy, which remains unchanged, has four key elements:
•	 Breadth of payments capability 
The acceptance of a broad range of payments (cash, cards, e-money, etc.) through 
multiple channels (retail, internet and mobile phone)
•	 Strength in vertical markets 
T argeting sectors with high volume, recurring consumer payments
•	 Value added content/services 
Providing additional content or services to the payment channels and chosen vertical 
markets to create differentiation
•	 Geographic reach 
Identifying regions with attractive payment dynamics to create value through exporting 
our know-how
PayPoint has succeeded in introducing this broad payment hub capability to clients in key 
vertical markets (energy, telecoms and media, financial services, parking/transport, public 
sector/social housing, retail and gaming/leisure), with the ability to process payments using 
the consumer’ s preferred method of payment and channel. The delivery of payments 
between consumers and our clients encompasses transaction authorisation, processing, 
clearing and settlement and interfacing to banks, card schemes/networks and other 
financial intermediaries. PayPoint also provides value added content and services within 
each channel, to differentiate the PayPoint proposition from those of its competitors. 
In our retail channels, differentiation is achieved through providing retailers with a broad 
range of retail services, including ATMs, credit and debit card processing, parcel collections 
and returns service, SIM cards and international money transfer.  The high quality of service 
delivery to retailers is also critical to differentiation.
In the internet channel, differentiation to merchants is driven through a widening base 
of acquiring bank relationships (increasingly in different geographies) and payment types, 
together with the quality of our fraud screening and reporting products. 
Our mobile channel, delivered through PayByPhone, will similarly drive differentiation 
through its ability to leverage our cash retail payment capability and internet payment 
services, combined with improving the consumer experience.
Technology
T echnology is at the heart of our service delivery and differentiation in all our businesses 
and we plan to continue to increase spending in this area.  We see opportunities to 
integrate our payment channel technologies to provide better, more efficient and complete 
solutions to our clients across a common platform, irrespective of whether their customer 
has paid in a store, online or on their phone.  Improving reporting to merchants and 
upgrading retailer management systems will enhance our ability to provide customers with 
a unique service and will contribute to growth.  The reporting system under development 
for online merchants offers opportunity for extension to other clients across all distribution 
channels.  As we invest in this more integrated solution, we also plan to consolidate our 
data centres in two hosted sites.  
Growth and prospectslo
PayPoint is well positioned, in attractive markets, to benefit from its strength in multi-
channel payments and retail services.   The growth in convenience retailing, online and 
mobile commerce is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.  Our position within 
vertical markets, including energy, telecoms/media, financial services, parking/transport, 
gaming/leisure and public sector/social housing, provides us with a platform to benefit from 
the investments being made by our clients and prospects.  As businesses seek to serve 
their customers across a wider variety of distribution channels, offering many payment 
options, we are well placed, with the breadth of our payment services and Collect+, to 
serve their needs. 4 PayPoint plc annual report 2013 PayPoint plc annual report 2013 5
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Vertical markets
Our clients are a Who’s Who of consumer services companies in the countries we 
serve. Their needs to innovate and use new delivery channels should continue to 
drive opportunities for us in future. In the UK, the energy sector continues to grow its 
prepayment base and is now investing in next generation smart meters that should 
further strengthen the demand to serve prepayment customers, not just for cash in 
store, but also across our web and mobile channels. Government is mandating that all 
domestic gas and electricity meters should be smart by 2020.
In recent years, PayPoint UK has added public sector capability to its portfolio. Welfare 
reform, such as the Universal Credit and the related devolution of some benefits to 
the local authority level, is likely to have a major impact on the requirements of central 
government, local authorities and social housing associations, where we are already 
active. Parking and transport authorities and operators are also keen to adopt smart 
technology, mobility and multi-channel delivery, the very areas in which we deliver.
Retail
PayPoint’s market leadership in retail payments and services remains at the core of 
its success. We continue to be strongly differentiated through the unique quality and 
breadth of our client base and retail coverage. We contract with the best convenience 
retailers and seek to extend the range of payments and services that we provide, 
delivering new retail schemes that drive footfall and commission earnings to our retail 
partners, securing their continuing commitment.
Convenience retailing is evolving from its former guise as a secondary top-up shopping 
destination into a principal choice for many busy consumers looking for quality products 
and services as conveniently as possible. The sector has benefitted from substantial 
investment in premises and upgraded ranges of local shops as a result of the entry of 
the major grocery multiples and symbol groups. PayPoint has been at the core of this 
transformation by being the principal innovator of in-store payments and services, 
helping local stores to become community hubs where consumers visit more often and 
for a greater range of activities. We intend to build further on our contribution to the 
breadth and value of the convenience retail offer to local communities.
An important recent retail service innovation builds on PayPoint’s success in providing 
cash to consumers in-store for government disbursements and service rebates, in 
addition to the ATM cash withdrawals which we have provided for much longer. Not 
only does CashOut provide a further service offering by retailers to their local community, 
it also reduces the amount of cash held in store.  With the proposed introduction of 
single daily settlement, where daily direct debits on retailers are reduced by the amount 
of CashOut and ATM withdrawals, retailers will benefit from reduced cash banking and 
transaction costs, further differentiating our services to them.  We do not just seek to 
serve consumers through our retailers, we also support our retailers with a broad range 
of services that support their own trading, including card payments, cash machines, 
international money transfer, promotional offers and SIM card distribution. 
These retail services boost the bottom line of our retail partners and improve our retail 
yield. We have increased our field sales force by half since the latter part of the prior year.  
They will help us find further retail sites, which by virtue of improved uptake of retail 
services, should not dilute our retail yield.  There is substantial opportunity to increase the 
retailer base, including ATMs.  This will require more capital expenditure than previously 
expected and, taken together with other capital plans, will result in higher capital spend 
in the current year.
International
In Romania, we have made good progress in growing profitability.  Cash payment is 
dominant across all demographics and we have nearly all the major consumer service 
companies as our clients. Our market share in clients we serve (c.12%) is increasing but, 
encouragingly for future growth, is still at relatively low levels. We aim to extend our 
client relationships to become the preferred and more exclusive supplier. Recently, we 
displaced the Post Office in the county of Iasi, in the Moldova region, from the provision 
of bill payment for EON GAZ, which we will seek to replicate across the region and with 
other clients.
The retail services opportunity in Romania is at an earlier stage, with international money 
transfer progressing well.  We expect new retail services to come to market in the 
medium term and to continue to grow our outlet numbers and retail yield. 
The potential for further international expansion will be reviewed this year.
Online support for  
The Grand National
The Grand National is watched by an estimated 
500 million people worldwide. In the UK alone, 
as much as two-thirds of the adult population 
places a bet, with an estimated £150m in 
total being wagered on the result.  Therefore, 
the event is business-critical for PayPoint.net’s 
online gaming clients.   In the hour before 
the event, PayPoint saw an uplift in its total 
transactions from the whole gaming industry 
of over 91% compared to the same hour on a 
usual Saturday.   At peak, we were processing 
more than four transactions a second.
 
Online gaming is one of the most demanding 
sectors for a payment gateway. A highly 
global business, it requires a very high level of 
security and fraud management, a wide range 
of payment methods and the ability to manage 
the outflow of winnings as well as the inflow 
of deposits. Our clients value enormously the 
reliability of our operation during this critical 
period for them:
“The Grand National is one of the most 
important events of the year for us, so we rely 
on PayPoint.net to provide us with flawless 
service, capable of handling the huge spike in 
volumes while maintaining the high level of 
security and fraud management that we enjoy 
during the rest of the year.”
Denis Kelly, CEO, Stan James
Leading the way with  
contactless payments
Having been the first cash payments network 
in the UK to introduce contactless credit and 
debit card payments, PayPoint now operates 
more than 4,000 contactless payment 
terminals, the largest private sector retail 
network in the UK.  
The number of contactless debit and credit 
cards in the UK passed 32 million at the end 
of 2012. Retailers carry no financial risk and 
benefit from a transaction fee that is lower 
than for debit cards, whilst consumers benefit 
from a faster transaction, the convenience of 
not having to enter their PIN and from not 
having to carry cash.
As the range of locations where customers 
can use them grows – in taxis, restaurants, 
coffee shops, sports centres, buses, car parks 
and on vending machines – customers are not 
only getting used to using their contactless 
cards but are increasingly expecting to be 
able to use them almost anywhere they spend 
their money. Because of the low value limit 
for contactless transactions, they are ideal for 
purchases in convenience stores. 4 PayPoint plc annual report 2013 PayPoint plc annual report 2013 5
Collect+
Our most exciting new retail service in recent years has been Collect+, a 50:50 joint 
venture with Yodel. This service enables consumers to collect and return their home 
shopping parcels from any of over 5,250 stores within the PayPoint network. The 
service is now in its fourth year and has an annual parcel run rate of over 9 million, with 
significant growth potential. The service has recently attracted new competition, but 
we have a lead over our new competitors, none of which come close to the breadth 
of coverage or volume of parcels that Collect+ provides through a convenience retail 
channel.  Collect+ continues our successful strategy of providing consumers and clients 
with more convenient and cost effective alternatives to the Post Office. This year should 
see a substantial expansion in our consumer send volumes with the launch of a faster 
service delivery option as an enhancement to the existing 3-5 day service. Collect+ is 
already proving attractive to consumers and small traders and is integrated into the 
Amazon and eBay platforms.
e&m commerce
Our e&m commerce businesses, PayPoint.net in the internet channel and PayByPhone in 
the mobile channel, operate in highly competitive markets which have attracted heavy 
investment from a wide range of market players ranging from global giants all the way 
down the scale to many innovative small start-ups.  In this context, PayPoint has handled 
tens of millions of payments annually across both web and mobile channels, and is still 
growing.  However, margin erosion in PayPoint.net and the continuing need to invest in 
PayByPhone in advance of revenues, have adversely affected profitability in the period 
under review.  In order to realise the full potential that these businesses present, we have 
now put them under single management to position better our capability in this fast 
changing market place and to benefit from potential cost synergies.  Both internet and 
mobile continue to be the highest growth areas of retail, displacing and complementing 
traditional high street retailers.  PayPoint is applying focus to key vertical markets as we 
aim to build successful capabilities, where we should be well rewarded and maintain a 
loyal client and merchant base.
 
PayByPhone parking will continue to concentrate on metropolitan opportunities in the 
UK, France, USA, Canada and selected other big cities. We have had recent success in 
Seattle, Paris suburbs, London and in New York with a trial, showing that this approach 
is helping us to secure the biggest available opportunities. Our Westminster service is still 
amongst the most successful phone parking services in the world and we are the market 
leader in our core markets of the UK and North America.
PayPoint.net will continue to promote and develop its range of payment services, 
including connections to a broad range of acquirers, support of international gateways, 
sophisticated fraud screening, payment card industry data security standard compliance 
and enhanced management reporting and control systems.  These support our 
positioning as a well-respected payment service provider. We have a comprehensive 
service portfolio in the market and recognised strength in gaming and general 
ecommerce. As PayPoint.net merchants and prospects look to add mobile payment 
capability, the closer integration with PayByPhone should enable us to be distinctively 
positioned with proven high volume products.
Consumers 
PayPoint has traditionally served consumers through our business to business (B2B) 
relationships and we have remained a B2B, or B2B2C (consumer), company in our 
approach. However, our innovation is taking us deeper into services which have a direct 
relationship with the consumer. For example, both Collect+ and PayByPhone have 
substantial consumer bases. 
In addition, the footfall from more than 11 million weekly transactions in PayPoint retail 
outlets provides opportunity for enhanced consumer relationships. PayPoint achieved an 
82% brand awareness in our most recent BMRB survey and a 98% consumer satisfaction 
result surveyed by Ipsos MORI – a level in excess of most consumer service organisations.  
Our recently launched social networking activities have attracted bigger followings in a 
few months than many big name consumer service organisations have achieved in several 
years. These are strong foundations on which to build our consumer brand more directly.
As we build our group capability going forward, we will be looking to extend our 
consumer base and to develop more value added propositions to increase our consumer 
yield, as well as our client and retailer yields. In doing this, we should benefit from the 
strong consumer brand we have already developed.  PayPoint is one of the companies 
best placed to make further gains in the fast moving payment industry, particularly in 
e&m commerce, and has a market leading position in retail services, on which we intend 
to build.
Dominic Taylor
Chief Executive
23 May 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
PayByPhone reaches out to  
New York
Following the recent introduction of 
PayByPhone in Seattle and New Castle, NJ, 
New York City has launched a PayByPhone 
cashless parking pilot in the Bronx. The pilot 
allows motorists to pay for parking via the 
PayByPhone app, the internet or by telephone 
along 18 blocks and at the Belmont Municipal 
Parking Field. There are no additional fees 
or changes to parking rates, while motorists 
will also be warned via email or text message 
when their time is about to expire, enabling 
them to pay for additional time. PayByPhone 
is also working with the New York Police 
Department, whose traffic enforcement agents 
use handheld scanners to enter license plate 
numbers, which are instantly cross-checked 
against received payments.
“You can purchase parking time … you will 
receive a text message or email confirming 
your purchase. You also get text or email 
warnings before your meter time expires and 
you can use PayByPhone to extend your meter 
time without ever going back to your car. So 
it really is everything you can think of to make 
your life better.”
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City
Collect+ adding value for stores
By offering Collect+, retailers in the PayPoint 
network gain significant recurring footfall 
and commercial benefit as well as a valuable 
edge over their local competitors. The service 
provides additional opportunities to raise 
customer loyalty and generate incremental 
sales over and above the commission earned 
from Collect+.
Research in 2013 showed that the average 
Collect+ store earns additional annual revenue 
of £2,712 as a direct result of offering the 
service. Collect+ contributes £673 per annum, 
on average, in commission, with an additional 
£2,039 of income generated from in-store 
purchases by Collect+ customers.
Almost two thirds (64%) of customers had 
not used the store before using Collect+. 
With 63% of customers stating that they 
would use the store again for other purchases 
in addition to using Collect+, and nearly 
50% of customers purchasing other items 
from the store, there are instant and lasting 
benefits for participating stores. Over a third 
of customers are using a mixture of Collect+ 
services, demonstrating the broad appeal of 
the Collect+ product range. 
