 2 PayPoint plc annual report 2013 PayPoint plc annual report 2013 3
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report strong growth in transactions, net revenue and earnings per 
share for the period under review.  We are proposing a final dividend of 20.2p per 
share, together with a special dividend of 15p per share, making a total for the period 
of 45.4p, an increase, excluding the special dividend, of 14.7%. The special dividend 
reflects the stronger than expected cash position at March 2013 and our confidence 
in the company’s ability to generate cash and does not impinge upon the company’s 
ability to invest in growth.
Our retail networks in the UK and Romania delivered profitable growth based on our 
strong client base and breadth of services. We continue to innovate and invest in 
technology and new services to maintain the premium quality of these retail networks 
and their competitive advantages.  In the UK, growth in prepaid energy transactions 
resulted from increases in the number of prepaid meters and tariffs.  Retail services 
delivered healthy growth, but mobile top-ups continued to decline.  The introduction 
of the Simple Payment service for the DWP has contributed to growth, but the number 
of transactions has been lower than expected, as a proportion of the cheque volume it 
was intended to replace has migrated to other payment methods.  We have continued 
to expand our Romanian retail terminal estate (by 609 sites) and transaction volume 
has increased by 28%. In Romania, national television advertising helped to improve 
brand awareness and drive increases in market share. Western Union money transfer 
has also contributed to Romanian growth.
Our parcels service
1
 has been increasingly profitable.  Parcel transactions have more 
than doubled to 7.7 million (2012: 3.8 million), driven by consumers’ appetite for click 
and collect.  Collect+ has increased the number of clients it serves to 212, from 126 at 
25 March 2012. Transaction numbers have grown in all services, including consumer 
deliveries, sold through the Collect+ website, Amazon, eBay and resellers.  We now 
have contracts with Amazon for deliveries and returns and with Amazon Marketplace.  
We have added more retailers, such as John Lewis, to our list of clients.  We continue 
to spend money on service improvements, which should help to deliver revenue growth 
that outstrips the growth in costs.  
In our e&m commerce channels (internet, trading as PayPoint.net, and mobile, 
trading as PayByPhone), transaction growth was 27% and net revenue growth 8%.  
Transaction growth in large internet merchants, which generate lower net revenues, 
dominated and a one off receipt in the prior year caused net revenue growth to be 
lower than transaction growth.  Through PayByPhone, we gain valuable insight into 
the development of mobile commerce but this remains an early stage venture.  We 
have continued to win new clients.  Although conversion into revenue of business 
won remains slow, the potential market for services delivered through mobile phones 
is large.  Extension to other mobile commerce areas offers further potential, but will 
require expenditure in development and marketing.  We have also sought to improve 
efficiency first by concentrating sales efforts on larger opportunities and second, by 
addressing telecommunications costs.  Further cost reduction opportunities exist, 
including the migration of payments to our internet channel, the technical integration 
of which is now complete.  Since the period end, we have brought these two channels 
under common management to accelerate the synergies in both revenue  
and efficiency.
We have continued to invest in technology.  We have signed contracts with two 
new data centre operators.  We will introduce single daily settlement with our 
retailers, reducing retailer banking costs and our exposure to retail agent debt.  In 
e&m commerce, we are planning to replace and upgrade our internet platform. In 
PayByPhone, we are developing our technology to open the platform to services other 
than parking and reducing our cost to serve.
For the current financial year, trading is in line with the company’s expectations. 
Our retail networks are strong and developing well.  We intend to pursue further 
opportunities to grow the retail network, thereby increasing market share in bill 
payment and retail services, including ATMs, in the UK, Ireland and Romania. We 
expect continued progress in the internet and mobile payment channels.  Together, our 
businesses provide a strong foundation to deliver value for our shareholders.
David Newlands
23 May 2013
Consumer satisfaction  
with PayPoint
Consumer satisfaction is vital to any company, 
especially one like PayPoint, which serves 
millions of people every week. Consumer 
satisfaction with PayPoint UK retail, which 
is independently measured each year, has 
remained constant at the exceptional level 
of 97%-98% for six years, with 86% very 
satisfied. The majority of customers choose to 
use PayPoint because it is convenient for their 
lifestyle, close to where they live and because 
they can pay almost all of their household bills 
in the one place. 
The breadth and variety of payments that can 
be made at PayPoint is an important factor 
in maintaining customer satisfaction. As new 
schemes and services are added to the PayPoint 
portfolio, some customers are carrying out 
three or four transactions at the same time – 
and an even higher proportion (91%) of these 
heavy users are very satisfied with PayPoint.  
Collect+ adding value for consumers
Research conducted on behalf of Collect+ in 
2013 reinforced the importance of convenient 
delivery. With most Collect+ stores open early 
until late, seven days a week and 40% of all 
transactions taking place outside traditional 
opening hours, the service solves this long-
term problem for consumers. Alternative 
collection points to a retailer’s own stores 
appeals to online shoppers, with 66% saying 
they would use the service. Over half said that 
they would be more likely to shop online with 
a retailer that offered delivery to a convenient 
collection point, thereby removing the risk of 
missed delivery.
Redesigning the customer experience and 
making it as convenient as possible is key and 
Collect+ works with over 210 retail brands to 
enable them to do this via its Click&Collect+ 
and returns service. With a focus on growing 
its Click&Collect+ client list, Collect+ has acted 
as a third party collection point for more than 
2 million customer orders in the past 
12 months.
1. Our parcels service comprises the net revenue less direct costs in the UK retail network, less our share of the losses 
of Collect+.
