 2 PayPoint plc annual report 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report strong growth in net revenue and operating profits for the year under 
review. We are proposing a final dividend of 23.9p per share, an increase of 18.3% on the 
dividend last year, excluding the 15.0p special dividend.
Our retail networks in the UK, Ireland and Romania delivered profitable growth from our strong 
client base and breadth of services. Prepaid energy transactions were in line with last year, 
despite warmer winter weather which reduced gas consumption. The reported growth rate was 
reduced by there being an extra six days of trading in the prior period. Retail services transaction 
growth was 25.1%. In Romania, bill payment transactions have grown 53.5%, as we added new 
clients including RCS & RDS, branded as DIGI, a pay TV and communications supplier and one of 
Romania’s biggest bill issuers, and grew strongly in existing clients.  
The market for mobile top-ups continues to decline in all three markets. In Romania, network 
expansion has countered the market decline. Mobile top-ups accounted for 13.9% of total group 
net revenues. The Simple Payment service for the DWP has contributed to growth in transactions, 
but volume has been lower than originally anticipated, as much of the cheque volume the service 
replaced migrated to other payment methods. Our UK field force has grown the network and 
driven sales of retail services to increase our average retail yield per site. We are developing a 
multi-channel product to address the payment challenges faced by utilities, as a result of the UK 
Government mandated change to smart meters by 2020, building on the credentials we already 
have in providing online payment solutions for prepayment meters.
Our Collect+ joint venture is now profitable.  Parcel transactions rose 76.4% to 13.6 million  
(2013: 7.7 million) and outlet numbers expanded to 5,600. Collect+ increased the number of 
clients served by 54 to 266 by 31 March 2014. We have introduced a new standard two day 
delivery service in addition to the economy three to five day service and continue to invest in 
service improvements to encourage growth.
Our Mobile and Online channels have been combined into one business under our unified group 
brand and we have strengthened management to address the substantial opportunities available in 
digital commerce. Transaction growth in the year was 15.8% and net revenue growth 7.7%, with 
strong growth in mobile net revenue. Transaction growth was mainly from larger merchants, or 
newer parking clients, who have lower than average net revenues per transaction. Through mobile 
payments, we gain valuable insight into the development of mobile commerce and although we 
have continued to grow net revenues and win new clients, including the provision of services for 
155,000 parking spaces in central Paris, this remains an early stage venture. In February, we acquired 
Adaptis, which provides a range of complementary parking services, including electronic parking 
permits, automatic number plate recognition systems for car parks and penalty charge notices. This 
small acquisition will strengthen our leading position in mobile parking payments, expanding our 
range of innovative parking products into off-street locations, fines and permits, and improving 
our capability to bid for bundled contracts. We also have the potential to extend into other mobile 
commerce areas, but this will require expenditure in development and marketing.
We have continued to invest in technology. We are in the process of migrating services to the two 
new data centres we started to fit out in the last financial year. Our objective is to move all systems 
and transaction processing to the new data centres over the next two years. We have introduced 
single daily settlement to our retailers, reducing retailer banking costs and our exposure to retail 
agent debt. As leading suppliers of retail technology, we are researching the functionality for our 
next generation of point of sale infrastructure, which in due course will replace existing terminals. 
In Mobile and Online, we are planning to replace and upgrade our internet gateway platform over 
the next two years and we are developing our technology, which will open the platform to mobile 
services other than parking. 
For the current financial year, trading is in line with the company’s expectations. Our retail 
networks in the UK and Romania should continue to deliver profitable growth from our strong 
client base and breadth of services. We will continue to invest in network expansion, innovative 
technology and new services to improve the quality of these retail networks to enhance their 
competitive advantages and our retail yield. Mobile and Online is an essential element of our 
strategy to provide multi-channel payments and services, placing us in fast growing markets and 
providing a bridge from cash to electronic payments. Together, our businesses provide a strong 
foundation to deliver value for our shareholders.
Andrew Robb, who has served on the board since 2004, was formerly Chairman of the audit 
committee and is Chairman of the remuneration committee and Senior Independent Director, will 
retire at the annual general meeting. I would like to thank Andrew for his service and wish him a 
long and happy retirement.
I am retiring from the end of the forthcoming annual general meeting after serving as Chairman 
of PayPoint for sixteen years. I have much enjoyed working with the management, in whose 
very capable hands, together with those of my successor, Warren Tucker, and our non-executive 
directors, I confidently leave the development of the business. 
David Newlands   29 May 2014
PayPoint Romania 
expands with new 
market sectors
Having signed up the majority of 
the country’s national and regional 
utility companies, PayPoint in 
Romania has enjoyed considerable 
success in delivering innovative 
new products and services for 
its customers in other markets, 
including telecommunications, 
financial services and even road 
tax. Amongst the schemes 
introduced has been a partnership 
with Scala Assistance, enabling 
Romanian customers to pay for 
their Road Tax at PayPoint shops 
across the country.
“Romania has one of the largest 
road networks in Europe and Scala 
Assistance wanted to work with a 
retail network with the coverage 
that would match it. Its network of 
terminals throughout the country 
makes it easy for Romanian drivers 
to pay for their Road Tax quickly 
and conveniently, before they take 
to the road.”
Scala Assistance
Distributing emergency 
funds to the most needy
The distribution of Emergency 
Funds was transferred from the 
Department for Work and Pensions 
to local authorities from April 
2013, for which PayPoint provided 
the solution to local authorities 
of how to accept and assess 
applications, then make payments 
in a timely manner. Quick Credit 
Voucher (QCV) is an online portal 
that provides a universal platform 
for any local authority to process 
quickly applications and deliver 
payments either by letter, email 
or text message, which can be 
immediately accessed by claimants 
at any PayPoint retailer. Almost 75 
local authorities were using QCV by 
the end of March 2014, by when it 
had been used to make payments 
to approximately 130,000 residents 
in crisis, with a total value of £5.2 
million. The versatility of the QCV 
portal means that it can also be 
used as an alternative to cheque 
payments for other purposes such 
as council tax refunds. 
“The innovative system is easy 
to use, saving us valuable time 
and money and avoiding the 
need for us to hold cash or gift 
vouchers.”  
Judith Johnson at  
Milton Keynes Council
