 PayPoint plc annual report 2012 3
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
PayPoint.net ﬁghts online fraud
FraudGuard 4 from PayPoint.net is one of the 
most powerful defences available to online 
businesses against online fraud, ID theft and 
exposure to global fraud risks. Its ﬂexible 
real-time functionality enables them to make 
quick and safe decisions to accept business 
and revenue, according to a predetermined 
acceptable level of risk.  Clients can verify 
and process legitimate transactions without 
delay while tracking signs of possible ID theft, 
such as mis-use or multiple use of a card, IP 
address, email address or billing address.
“As a leading online gaming provider, 
the ability to accept or deny transactions 
immediately is vital.  Our customers are using 
a real-time service so we have to make quick 
decisions as to whether payments are genuine 
or not.  We rely on FraudGuard 4 to automate 
the decision making as far as possible, while 
minimising our exposure to risk. FraudGuard’s 
ﬂexibility in assessing risk helps us to accept 
more payments and improve our service to 
customers.” 
Motie Bring, Head of Transaction Services, PKR
Western Union
®
 in Romania
PayPoint Romania’s agents are now able to 
offer their customers a money transfer service 
via Western Union
®
 on PayPoint’s multi-
function terminal.  Romanian consumers can 
now go to their local convenience store to 
send and receive money in the local currency.  
Being able to offer Western Union
®
 is a major 
beneﬁt for PayPoint retailers.  Not only can 
they provide a further valuable local service 
to their customers, but it also earns additional 
commission income and generates incremental 
footfall by attracting new customers.
“Joining forces with PayPoint in Romania will 
ensure that the service is available to more 
people at the most convenient time and 
location, making it more convenient to send 
money to loved ones abroad and to receive 
payments sent to Romania.”
Declan Daly, Regional Vice President,  
Central Europe, Western Union
®
PayPoint has had another good year, in which we have delivered earnings growth 
in line with market expectations and our strategic plans.  Our UK and Irish retail 
business has continued to grow and remains highly proﬁtable and cash generative, our 
Romanian business is now proﬁtable with good prospects for further growth and our 
Collect+ and PayByPhone businesses have made good progress.
The essence of the group’s capability is the processing of high volume, consumer 
transactions, whether for payment or value added services, for example, parcel 
fulﬁlment, through a ﬂexible platform, adding value to clients in speciﬁc vertical 
markets.  In the case of payments, these are low value transactions and embrace retail, 
internet and mobile technologies and include money ﬂowing to, as well as from, the 
consumer.  The platform is connected to retailers and internet merchants across a 
number of different geographies, to whom we seek to add value through the provision 
of relevant additional services.  Core to our proposition is to provide consumers with 
greater convenience.   We are able to grow the business through targeting more clients 
in vertical markets, more verticals, more retailers and more merchants, driving more 
consumers to use our services.
Our strategy:
Our strategy remains unchanged.  Since the ﬂotation of the original UK & Irish retail 
network business in 2004, PayPoint has evolved into a specialist payments company. 
Our strategy has four key elements:
• Breadth of payments capability
The acceptance of a broad range of payments (cash, cards, e-money, etc.) through 
multiple channels (retail, internet and mobile phone)
• Strength in vertical markets
Targeting sectors with high volume, recurring consumer payments
• Value added content/services
Providing additional content or services to the payment channels and chosen vertical 
markets to create differentiation
• Geographic reach
Identifying regions with attractive payment dynamics to create value through 
exporting our know-how
PayPoint has succeeded in introducing this broad payment hub capability to clients 
in a number of key vertical markets (energy/utilities, telecoms and media, ﬁnancial, 
transport/parking, public sector/social housing, retail and gaming/leisure), with the 
ability to process payments using the consumer’s preferred method of payment 
and channel.  The delivery of payments from consumers to our clients encompasses 
transaction authorisation, processing, clearing and settlement and interfacing to banks, 
card schemes/networks and other ﬁnancial intermediaries.  PayPoint also provides 
value added content and services within each channel, to differentiate the PayPoint 
proposition from those of its competitors. 
In our retail channels, differentiation is achieved through providing retailers with a 
broad range of retail services, including ATMs, credit and debit card processing, parcel 
collections and returns service, SIM cards and international money transfer.  The high 
quality of service delivery to retailers is also critical to differentiation.
In the internet channel, differentiation to merchants is driven through a widening base 
of acquiring bank relationships (increasingly in different geographies) and payment 
types, together with the quality of our fraud screening and reporting products. 
Our mobile channel, delivered through PayByPhone, will similarly drive differentiation 
through its ability to leverage our cash retail payment capability and internet payment 
services, combined with improving the consumer experience.
The extension of our geographic reach is progressing. 4 PayPoint plc annual report 2012
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Growth and prospectslo
Technology
Technology is at the heart of our service delivery and differentiation in all our 
businesses and we plan to invest heavily in this area.  We see increasing opportunities 
to integrate our payment channel technologies to provide better, more efﬁcient and 
complete solutions to our clients across a single platform, irrespective of whether 
their customer has paid in a store, online or on their phone.  As our businesses grow, 
investments in improved reporting and retail agent management systems will continue 
to enhance our ability to provide customers with a unique service and will contribute to 
further proﬁtable growth.  The reporting system under development for internet clients 
will be developed further for extension to other clients across all distribution channels.  
As we invest in this more integrated solution, we also plan to consolidate our data 
centres on two hosted sites.    
In our UK retail network, we have rolled out our virtual terminal to multiple retailers -  
a software variant of our terminal which is integrated into the retailers’ till systems, in 
conjunction with a bespoke PayPoint plug-in reader to provide the full functionality 
of the physical terminal more efﬁciently and at lower cost. In-store, this allows our 
service to be available at every check-out lane, eliminates the need for reconciliation 
with the main till system, accelerates transaction speed and saves communications and 
till roll costs.  Over 2,600 sites now have this technology in retailers such as McColls 
and One Stop and these stores have beneﬁtted not only from increased efﬁciency, but 
also an uplift in volume.  Where existing terminals are replaced by virtual terminals, we 
refurbish them for deployment in Romania.
An increasing number of our terminals are being connected through broadband links 
rather than dial-up, dramatically improving the speed of online transactions and the 
breadth of services that we can potentially offer the retailer in-store.  The transition to 
broadband links will continue through the year. 
We have introduced an agent extranet for our UK agents.  Currently, agent invoicing 
and ﬁnancial details for each agent are available using this facility.  We plan to roll this 
out to all agents, which will reduce paper, postage and some incoming agent calls to 
the call centre.  We will further develop the agent extranet as a means of marketing to 
and communicating with our retail agents. 
Development work on cash out services, the Simple Payment service for the DWP , is at 
an advanced stage and will be ready for implementation during the course of this year.  
As a result, our retailer settlement systems will be more streamlined, reducing exposure 
to retailers and will allow the cash balances we generate through bill payment to be 
recycled back to consumers, saving retailers bank charges and increasing in-store spend.
In Romania, we have completed the development of our money transfer proposition on 
the terminal and the service is now live and showing encouraging growth. 
In the internet channel, we are developing substantial improvements to our services to 
online merchants.  These include transaction optimisation, an advanced management 
and reporting solution, a PCI compliance offering and additional payment methods, 
which should provide signiﬁcant competitive advantage.  PayByPhone is introducing a 
new, consumer friendly mobile web parking registration and payment system.
UK retail network
We are focused on providing increased retail services through our retail networks and 
have increased the size of the ﬁeld sales force by 50 per cent to help deliver growth 
in revenue.  Net revenues from these services increased 28 per cent last year.  These 
services include parcels, ATMs, SIM cards, debit and credit card acceptance, advertising 
on till receipts and money transfer.  We will continue to invest in the retail network 
with technologies such as our virtual terminal and broadband communication links, 
and in new ATMs to optimise the growth of existing and future retail services.  We 
are planning to launch our Simple Payment service for the DWP (to replace cheque 
beneﬁt payments later in the year), which will provide us with a larger scale cash out 
opportunity to supplement existing cash out schemes.  
Romanian retail network
The Romanian network is now proﬁtable, driven by the optimisation of existing sites 
and increasing bill payment volumes and which we expect to continue as we market 
to consumers.  The launch of money transfer, as the ﬁrst retail service proposition, is 
showing early signs of success as Romanians opt for the convenience provided by their 
local shop instead of travelling to a bank.
Direct partnerships with the  
housing sector
PayPoint accepts cash payments for more 
than 750 housing associations across the UK, 
as well as over 260 local authorities.  Having 
traditionally partnered with third parties to 
work with these organisations, PayPoint has 
developed the facility to become their exclusive 
payment services provider and is already 
handling all cash payments made by some 
90,000 housing association tenants for rent, 
repairs and other services.  Building further on 
the synergies offered by group companies, we 
also enable tenants to make their payments 
over the internet using a new online payments 
website, developed by PayPoint and powered 
by PayPoint.net. 
 
With more extensive coverage throughout 
the UK of any retail network and a familiar 
brand to many of their residents and 
tenants, PayPoint is the most accessible and 
cost-effective partner for local authorities 
and housing associations to manage cash 
collections. 
Home top-up for online meter 
payments
Utility customers with prepayment meters have 
traditionally gone to a PayPoint agent for top-
ups, using a plastic card or key, which is then 
inserted into the meter.  However, as some 
meter customers do not need to pay in cash 
and increasingly have access to e-commerce, 
PayPoint has developed a new service in 
partnership with its utility clients and meter 
manufacturers Itron and Siemens for those 
customers with ‘home top-up’ units to top up 
certain electricity and gas meters by visiting 
the clients’ websites to make a debit card 
payment at any time of day or night. They can 
also use the system to monitor their usage. 
The payment processing capability is managed 
by PayPoint.net.
 
Home Energy customers often highlight 
home top-up as one of the main reasons 
they stay with their current supplier and, as 
a result, churn of home top-up customers is 
signiﬁcantly lower than other top-up standard 
pay as you go customers. PayPoint plc annual report 2012 5
Internet
Alongside the introduction of the new integrated systems referred to under Technology 
above, we expect to sign up further new merchants and to beneﬁt from the launch of 
a new enterprise level, real-time data reporting platform.  This will offer PayPoint.net 
the opportunity to differentiate further its payments capability to merchants both in the 
UK and abroad and will add proﬁtable growth.
PayByPhone
PayByPhone, one of the worldwide leaders in mobile phone parking, has the potential 
to replace traditional parking meters or provide a system for payment for parking 
where none exists in many major cities around the world.  We have added signiﬁcant 
sales and development resources and we are currently tendering to several large 
parking authorities as well as a large number of smaller opportunities in the UK, 
France and North America. Sales lead times are extended in this market and somewhat 
unpredictable, but our momentum continues to be encouraging, with wins in Hackney, 
Lambeth, City of London, Swindon, Coral Gables in Florida and Ottawa in Canada 
amongst others over the past year.  We have also made encouraging progress in 
applying our mobile payment capability beyond parking, in winning a tolling contract 
for a major road bridge in Canada, further bicycle rental contracts in France and an 
integration into Veolia’s French bus ticketing system.
We continue to focus on improving the consumer experience through mobile phone 
apps and improved registration processes as well as reducing the cost to serve.  The 
launch of our contactless NFC parking solution in San Francisco was one of the world’s 
largest implementations of NFC technology and is being adopted by other cities in 
North America and Europe.  PayByPhone is now integrated into PayPoint.net and is 
now able to beneﬁt from the latter’s payment processing capability.  We have spent 
more than we anticipated in addressing the sales opportunities, including expenditure 
on technology.  This expenditure has been rewarded by 66 new business wins, more 
than any of our competitors, but the revenue lags the win as it takes time to contract, 
install and ramp up the service.  We will continue to invest at this high rate, the 
consequence of which will be a further loss in the current year.
Collect+
Our parcels joint venture (50:50) with Yodel has continued to progress strongly, with 
substantial endorsement from the online retailing community and resulting growth in 
transaction volumes.  Collect+ has been recognised in prestigious industry awards for 
its innovative parcel delivery and returns service.  Yodel’s current integration of two 
businesses into one completes in the ﬁrst half of our current reporting year.  Collect+ 
processes over ﬁve million transactions per annum (based on transaction volumes in 
March 2012) and is making good progress towards breakeven volume.
Our plans for the current year
We will continue to make further progress in the four elements of our strategy to 
increase shareholder value: more payment/channel options, specialisation in vertical 
markets, value added services and geographic reach.  We plan to make good progress 
in both the established and developing businesses, notably through continuing growth 
of retail services (in both the UK and Romania) and internet payments and by adding 
new customers to Collect+ and PayByPhone.
Early beneﬁts from the synergy between our various business streams, with more 
clients in our selected verticals taking multi-channel services have encouraged us to 
push this dynamic more strongly as newer business areas bed in and system platforms 
can be developed across the group.  We have strengthened the management in our 
UK retail network with the appointment of a UK Managing Director and the business is 
already beneﬁting from his increased level of focus. 
PayPoint is one of the companies best placed to make further gains in the fast moving 
payment industry, particularly in e-commerce, and has a market leading position in 
retail services, on which we intend to build.
Dominic Taylor
Chief Executive
24 May 2012
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
NFC-enabled cashless parking with 
PayByPhone 
PayByPhone has launched one of the largest 
deployments of near ﬁeld communications 
(NFC) payment solutions in the world.  The 
San Francisco Municipal Transportation 
Agency (SFMTA) selected PayByPhone to give 
drivers the option automatically to launch the 
PayByPhone app with NFC-enabled mobile 
phones.  The PayByPhone NFC stickers on the 
city’s 30,800 parking meters have a passive 
electronic chip that does not require a battery 
and stores information that can be read 
wirelessly by any NFC-enabled phone.  The 
motorist simply waves the phone close to the 
sticker and the system recognises the user and 
identiﬁes the individual parking location. 
“It is our aim to offer greater choice and 
convenience to drivers in San Francisco. 
Drivers no longer have to worry about 
carrying sufﬁcient coins; they get text message 
reminders before parking time expires and can 
add time by phone without returning  
to their car when they have not exceeded any 
maximum stay restrictions.  Including  
NFC technology in this service allows us to 
take advantage of the expected beneﬁts in  
the future.” 
PayPoint Rapid
PayPoint has introduced a new payments 
terminal which speeds up transaction times 
using a standard broadband connection, 
leading to improved customer service.  The 
PayPoint Rapid terminal beneﬁts busy shops 
doing a high volume of mobile top-ups and 
other online transactions such as Western 
Union
®
, prepaid cards and vouchers, by 
speeding up transactions and reducing the 
time spent by staff putting them through  
the terminal.  
PayPoint Rapid is designed to improve 
the overall service PayPoint provides to its 
agents.  It is complemented by an exclusive 
discounted broadband deal, which PayPoint 
has negotiated on behalf of its agents, to help 
them access the latest technology at the same 
time as reducing their operating costs.  
