 PayPoint plc annual report 2014 3
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Creating a first-class 
mobile gaming 
environment
When AlchemyBet needed 
a mobile-friendly payment 
solution that would complement 
the high quality mobile 
entertainment on offer from its 
PocketFruity.com mobile and 
social gaming app, PayPoint 
implemented its API (Application 
Programming Interface), which 
has the flexibility to adapt to a 
mobile payment environment.
Operating in a thriving mobile 
games market, the API is able to 
cope with high levels of demand, 
helping to build long lasting loyalty 
with PocketFruity’s customers who 
demand an efficient payment 
experience. As a result, the 
UK-based operator is now an 
established mobile gaming business 
and experienced an increase in 
volumes of 182% over the last year.
“Our customers need to be able to 
deposit and receive funds quickly 
and successfully, which the mobile 
payment functionality on the 
PayPoint platform has enabled.”
James Harrison, CEO, AlchemyBet 
(PocketFruity.com)
Collect+ reaches out  
to Ireland
Collect+ has teamed up with Parcel 
Motel to give Irish online shoppers 
an easy and convenient way to 
return unwanted items to UK 
retailers. Littlewoods Ireland was 
the first Irish retailer to offer this 
service to its customers.
Since its launch in mid-2013 by 
Nightline Group, Ireland’s largest 
independent delivery firm, the 
Parcel Motel network of lockers 
has attracted tens of thousands 
of subscribers. Littlewoods 
Ireland customers can return 
unwanted items to the UK 
by dropping them off at their 
nearest Parcel Motel locker.
Once registered on the Parcel 
Motel website, customers can 
book a locker slot and attach the 
Collect+ label to their package, 
which is provided when their item 
is shipped to them. Parcel Motel 
transfers the parcels to Collect+ 
in the UK. Customers receive a 
returns code and are able to track 
the journey of their item on the 
Collect+ website.
“This new system is simpler and, 
if anything, makes the business 
of buying online even easier 
than before.”
John Tuohy, CEO, Nightline Group
David Newlands will be retiring at the annual general meeting in July after 16 years of service as 
Chairman. Over this period, he has provided strong leadership in the development of PayPoint 
as the company has evolved from a fragile start-up to the robust multi-channel international 
payments and services business of today. On behalf of the company, I would like to thank David 
for the significant contribution he has made to our success and all of us at PayPoint wish him a 
happy retirement.
PayPoint has continued to deliver earnings growth, in another busy year, in which our businesses 
have made good progress. Retail Payments and Services (UK, Ireland, Romania) and Collect+ have 
grown and strengthened their positions in their markets.  We have combined PayByPhone,  
PayPoint.net and the recently acquired Adaptis to create PayPoint Mobile and Online. This brings 
mobile and online payment into the centre of our group capability alongside retail payments and 
services and reinforces our unique multi-channel payment capability, ready to service the needs of 
our clients, retailers and merchants.
A single proposition with a new modern identity
We launched the rebranding of the company on 20 May 2014. The context for our new identity is 
that the world around us is changing, in particular, in the ways consumers shop, pay for and acquire 
products and services. Much of this is being driven by technology (smart mobile devices, faster internet 
access speeds, increasing connectivity), which is empowering consumers to demand more choice and 
convenience. As a result, many consumers will no longer want to have their relationship with a service 
organisation defined by a single payment channel. They prefer to use information rich apps that can be 
accessed anywhere and anytime, embedded with frictionless payment functionality.
These dynamics create increasing complexity for consumer service organisations as they seek to develop 
platforms to meet these new consumer needs. We are well placed to help our clients to deliver the 
simplified solutions that their consumers want using our multi-channel payment capability (distinctively 
with strength in mobile, online and retail). Our experience in developing successful consumer apps in 
parking, which serve millions, and our innovative fulfilment solution, Collect+, also demonstrates our 
understanding of these evolving consumer dynamics.
We are also refreshing our brand, originally created to target cash paying consumers in shops, to 
one which is more modern and effective for the multi-channel payment solution that now sits at the 
heart of PayPoint’ s offer. Our new logo will be more relevant to all consumers, across all payment 
channels.   The new logo has been recently launched in all B2B relationships and will roll out to our 
consumer audiences in parking later this year. This new identity communicates all channels through a 
single brand, emphasising the full spectrum of our services. For example, it helps to position our multi-
channel offer to the utility sector as smart meters start to be rolled out to UK households, for which 
we have already developed a prototype solution integrating mobile apps with web and retail, all with a 
consistent look and feel to the consumer.
Retail Payments and Services
We have made good progress in the year within our retail businesses. PayPoint’ s market leadership 
in retail payments and services remains at the core of our success. We continue to be strongly 
differentiated through the unique quality and breadth of our client base and retail coverage. This allows 
us to contract with the best convenience retailers and seek to extend the range of payments and 
services that we provide, delivering new retail schemes that drive footfall and commission earnings to 
our retail partners and securing their continuing loyalty.   
In the UK and Ireland, convenience retailing is increasingly becoming the first choice for many busy 
consumers looking for quality products and services. The sector continues to benefit from substantial 
investment in premises and upgraded product ranges. PayPoint sits at the core of this transformation 
as the principal innovator of in-store payments and services to local communities. We have continued 
to improve technology in-store by the introduction of PayPoint Point of Sale, the software version of 
our terminal on retailers’ till systems, notably to the Co-Operative Group, and by placing broadband 
connected terminals which process transactions more quickly.  We continue to extend our retail 
coverage in the UK and Ireland towards 30,000 sites, whilst maintaining our focus on yield per site.   
Our focus on retail services has enabled us increasingly to become the preferred technology gateway 
for the convenience sector.
Romania has made good progress with strong transaction growth, as we increase our share of over the 
counter bill payment, driving increased profitability.  We continue to roll out further sites to get ever 
closer to where consumers live and work. We are evaluating new retail services to complement our 
international money transfer proposition, that is developing well through about 1,400 of our sites. The 
prospects for Romania continue to be good, with the opportunity to extend our share of payments, 
develop our retail services proposition and start to introduce the group’ s new multi-channel payment 
capability to our Romanian client base. 4 PayPoint plc annual report 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Collect+
This exciting UK retail service, a 50:50 joint venture with Yodel, has developed well over the year, 
with annual parcel volumes growing 76.4%. The company is now in profit and we continue to invest 
in the proposition and network to support its growth, with an ultimate goal to provide a larger parcel 
network than the Post Office. Collect+ does not have the same characteristic operational gearing in 
its business model as PayPoint, as variable costs are much higher. This, together with cost increases, 
including marketing, will affect profit, although PayPoint Retail Services will continue to benefit 
from increased volumes and, taken together, the parcels service will continue to increase profit to 
PayPoint. We attract the best online retailers to the Collect+ service, including Amazon, eBay, ASOS, 
New Look, Boden, John Lewis, House of Fraser, M&S, Asda Direct and Very.  The growth of Click & 
Collect is particularly encouraging.
Mobile and Online
PayByPhone, PayPoint.net and our recent acquisition Adaptis, have been combined into the newly 
launched PayPoint Mobile and Online. The business is operating under a new single management 
team and is at the heart of PayPoint’s multi-channel strategy.  Our ability to understand and engage 
with the consumer, together with our B2B strength in more traditional transaction processing and 
value added services, gives us strength and differentiation within the payment sector. Already, we 
offer internet payment services to our parking clients and mobile payment services to our internet 
payment clients.  We have continued to win large new clients, including the City of Paris, although 
NSL’s winning bid for Westminster did not include our PayByPhone service and this loss will delay 
profitability for Mobile and Online.
As Mobile and Online has its own customer base of several million consumers in parking, it is well 
positioned to earn revenues from both consumers and merchants, with the potential for new 
business models beyond transaction revenues. We aim to sell more products to our B2B clients, to 
generate more sources of revenue per consumer and to have a greater proportion of transactions 
where we own the consumer experience.
Consumers
PayPoint has traditionally served consumers though our B2B relationships and we remain, essentially, 
a B2B2C company in our approach. Our innovation has taken us into services, which have a direct 
relationship with consumers, such as in parking and Collect+, both of which have growing consumer 
bases.  In addition, some 12 million transactions from unregistered consumers cross our retail 
counters in an average week and our brand awareness, consumer satisfaction and net promoter 
ratings are high, endorsed by feedback from our more recent social networking activities. We are 
working hard to drive greater insight into consumer behaviour and needs, with a view to extending 
our consumer base and driving further value to them.
Dominic Taylor
Chief Executive
29 May 2014
Top industry award for 
the Simple Payment 
service
The Simple Payment service, the 
innovative solution that replaced 
costly cheques for the payment 
of government benefits and 
pensions, was recognised as the 
best in class at the 2014 Cards 
& Payments Awards. The Simple 
Payment service is delivered on 
behalf of the Department for Work 
& Pensions (DWP) by PayPoint and 
Citi, and its success has allowed 
the Government to discontinue all 
cheque services, with an annual 
saving to the taxpayer estimated at 
£15 million, including an estimated 
£5 million per year in fraud. 
“In the current UK environment, 
there is an expectation that public 
and private sector organisations 
will drive efficiencies and 
reduce costs. There is also an 
expectation that organisations 
will drive a digital agenda 
through innovation. The Simple 
Payment service addresses these 
expectations, while enhancing the 
customer experience.”
Cards & Payments Awards 
judging panel
Heating homes over 
Christmas
Although more shops are 
opening on Christmas Day each 
year, PayPoint’s retail network is 
very often the only place where 
people with energy prepayment 
meters are able to top up their 
meters over bank holidays. As 
an illustration of the value of 
PayPoint in the communities 
served by its shops, consumers 
across the UK topped up their gas 
or electricity prepayment meters 
at PayPoint 3.9 million times on 
Christmas Day, Boxing Day and 
New Year’s Day. In addition, over 
10,000 customers collected their 
pension or benefits in cash from 
PayPoint on one of these bank 
holidays. In total, PayPoint was 
used 6 million times over the 
three days by consumers for a 
wide variety of payments. Almost 
12,500 shops with PayPoint 
facilities were open on Christmas 
Day, with as many as nine out 
of ten open in some parts of 
the country, enabling over 
225,000 people to top up their 
prepayment meters.
“What these figures show is just 
what a valuable service PayPoint 
provides. No other retail chain in 
the UK offers such a high level of 
service over the holiday period.”
Seamus Smith, Managing 
Director, Retail Payments and 
Services, PayPoint
