 Chairman’s Statement 
2    Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 
 
 
Dear shareholder, 
Our goal at Pearson is to increase the value of your company for the 
long term. 
So we look back on 2007 with somewhat mixed feelings: pride in our 
financial and operational performance, tempered by disappointment 
that we did not sustain the steady share price increases of recent years.  
The results we describe in this report include record operating profits, 
record earnings per share and record operating cash flow. Our return 
on invested capital – the ultimate test of whether we are generating a 
return on all the capital invested in the company – moved up to 8.2%, 
even as we made some significant acquisitions to extend the breadth 
and worldwide leadership of our education company.  
I’d like to thank and congratulate everyone who works at Pearson for 
their dedication and success in 2007. These are remarkable results – 
and all the more so because they were achieved against the headwind 
of a 9% decline in the value of the US dollar, our principal trading 
currency, against the pound. 
But that performance brought little immediate reward in share price 
terms. Amid more turbulent market conditions than we have seen for 
some years, the value of our shares declined by 5%. That compares 
with a 4% increase in the FTSE100 and a 1% decline in the FTSE 
Media Index. Including our dividend, our total return to shareholders 
was marginally negative at -2%. So, while we were producing those 
record results, shareholder value was affected by a series of external 
factors – the dramatic downturn in credit markets; the reaction  
of equity markets; the further weakening of the US dollar; the 
perceived cyclicality of the media sector in more uncertain 
macroeconomic conditions.  
History tells us that bear markets can bring a silver lining for long-term 
investors – the chance to acquire quality companies at historically 
attractive multiples and yields. We continue to believe that, in the long 
term, sustained growth in earnings, cash and returns will be the most 
reliable way for Pearson to increase shareholder value. So let me 
highlight some of the indicators I find encouraging.  
1. First of all, our excellent results in 2007 were not a one-off; they 
build on a trend of consistently strong growth. Over the past five years, 
our operating profit growth has averaged 15% each year (at constant 
exchange rates), our adjusted earnings per share growth has averaged 
14%, and our operating cash flow has more than doubled to £684m.   3    Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007
2. Second, that track record is the result of an effective organic  
growth strategy. That is to invest behind our world-leading market 
positions, building on the content, technology and international 
growth opportunities of each one of our companies, at the same time 
as we make the business more efficient.  
3. Third, we can see that strategy paying off in every part of Pearson.  
It is particularly pleasing to see substantial profit growth at Penguin 
(up 20%) and FT Publishing (up 85%) adding to the consistent 
upward trends at Pearson Education (up 9%) and Interactive Data  
(up 13%). 
4. Fourth, we are steadily shifting capital towards our most attractive 
growth opportunities. We began the year by selling our Government 
Solutions business and continued with a series of disposals of 
companies that we viewed as no longer central to our long-term 
strategy. They included Les Echos in France and, early in 2008,  
FT Deutschland and our US Data Management (Scanners) business. 
Meanwhile, we acquired new companies that bring us hugely  
valuable content, international reach and technology – the Harcourt 
international education and educational testing companies and 
eCollege, a pioneer in online distance learning.  
5. Fifth, and at the heart of everything we do, we made significant 
advances in the value we bring to our customers through our content, 
technology and services. There are many examples all around Pearson 
– from the FT’s outstanding and indispensible coverage of the turmoil 
in global credit markets; to Penguin’s uncannily timely publication of 
Alan Greenspan’s memoirs; to our education company’s pioneering 
use of technology to advance student success.  
Examples like those remind us that Pearson plays a unique and 
valuable role in society. Thank you for making that possible. 
We begin 2008 with a good strategy, strong businesses and healthy 
trading momentum. We are certainly living through a more uncertain 
economic environment and more nervous stock markets. Our focus 
will be on serving our customers, building our business and producing 
consistent financial progress, in the belief that those, over the long 
term, are the surest path to value creation.  
As always, I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible at our 
annual shareholders’ meeting. 
Glen Moreno, Chairman
