 The Group has made good progress over the last 
year and continues to execute its growth strategy.
The Group has reported substantial increases in revenues 
and has continued to expand its rights portfolio, distribution 
clients, unique users, video streams and subscriber numbers. 
These results highlight the good operational and revenue 
growth the Group has delivered this year, even with the 
weaker than anticipated performance in the second half of 
the year.
The Group supplemented its strong organic revenue growth 
with two important acquisitions. 
In March the Group acquired the digital assets of American 
City Business Journals Inc.’s (“ACBJ”) consumer web division 
Sporting News including Sportingnews.com. The Group 
established a new subsidiary, Perform Sporting News Ltd, 
and contributed its US and Canadian consumer businesses 
including the local versions of ePlayer and Goal. The new 
subsidiary is 65% owned by the Group and 35% by ACBJ. 
The Group is entitled to buy out ACBJ’s equity for a pre-
determined fixed cash price at any time and also has an 
annual option each April from 2017 to acquire the equity 
based on a multiple of prior year EBITDA calculation subject 
to a minimum and maximum value and satisfied by the issue 
of new shares at the Group’s discretion.
The deal enhanced the Group’s direct to consumer scale 
and presence in the US and Canada and it has become a 
top seven digital sports media player in the world’s largest 
sports media market. It combines video, display and mobile 
advertising inventory to allow a complete product offering 
to be sold to advertising and sponsorship partners and has 
a sales team which covers every key media market in the US 
and Canada.
In July the Group acquired Opta, a leading provider of rich 
sports data to the media sector, sports clubs, leagues and 
federations, for cash consideration of £40 million together 
with a management incentive scheme of up to £7 million 
linked to the delivery of the business’s EBITDA for the year 
to 30 June 2014. The acquisition was funded through the 
issuance of 23.9 million new ordinary shares which raised total 
net proceeds of £112.6 million.
Opta complements the Group’s existing content distribution 
business by catering to the significant opportunity of rich 
data within the wider media sector and allows the Group 
to exploit the significant consumer opportunity of rich data 
through its own products such as Goal. It also strengthened 
the Group’s presence in key European media markets.
Although the Group will continue to seek a small number 
of complementary acquisitions, the focus in 2014 will be 
to ensure the effective integration of the acquisitions the 
Group has made over the past three years. In many instances 
acquisitions are still operating on their own platforms and are 
relatively autonomous from other areas of the business, which 
has led to duplication and inefficiency. Our aim is to make 
sure the majority of acquisitions are fully integrated during 
2014 with duplication and inefficiency reduced.
The opportunities for long-term sustainable growth remain 
significant. The exciting developments in mobile and 
connected technology, innovation in digital sports rights 
and international expansion offer significant opportunities. 
The Group continues to invest in growing its international 
presence and in 2013 made good inroads in Africa, Middle 
East, South America and South East Asia that will enable the 
Group in the medium to long-term to maintain growth.
Oliver Slipper
Joint Chief Executive Officer
Joint CEOs’ review
Growth strategy
page 20
14 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The focus for the Watch&Bet team during the year was to 
complete the new licence arrangements for the 2014 to 2016 
period. In 2013 the service offering was increased to 16,543 
events (2012: 14,729) with the start of the contracts with 
the WT A Premier events, US Open and National Basketball 
Association and the return to the service of the rights for 
Italian Serie A and French Ligue 1. 
As we move into 2014 the service now has the highest quality 
content 24 hours a day, 365 days a year , with the majority of 
rights contracted until well into 2015. We have spent more on 
rights than we previously anticipated but as a result we now 
have a better quality mix of content, cleared for more platforms.
The Group’s media product portfolio was significantly 
enhanced by the acquisition of Opta and we expect strong 
growth in this area in 2014 as the importance of sports 
statistics grows for both global media organisations and fans 
around the world.
The average number of full time staff employed in the year 
increased by 439 to 1,345. As a result of the margin decline 
experienced in 2013, a full cost review has been initiated that 
will result in a marginal decline in overall headcount in 2014, 
as efficiencies are realised following the full integration of 
acquisitions. In addition to making changes to our overall staff 
structures, we have planned change programmes for 2014 in 
data operations, software development, technical platforms, 
content management, supplier procurement and offices and 
facilities. Each of these programmes will require significant 
changes but they are necessary to improve underlying 
margin in 2015 and Management are confident they will 
not affect the revenues or operations of the Company 
during 2014.
These were only a few of many highlights in what was both 
an exciting but also challenging year for the Group. Following 
the completion of the Watch&Bet renewals for the 2014-
2016 term, aligned with strong contracted revenues across 
RunningBall, Opta and Omnisport, the Group now has over 
£280 million of revenues contracted, contracting or under a 
recurring supply agreement from betting for 2014-2016 which 
gives us a great foundation to continue building success into 
2014 and beyond.
Simon Denyer
Joint Chief Executive Officer
2013 was a transitional year for the Group with some very 
clear successes and some disappointments. T otal Group 
year-on-year revenue growth was 37% (2012: 47%), with 
incremental underlying growth excluding the impact of Opta 
and Sporting News of 26%, which reflected how the Group 
continued to benefit from positive structural trends such as 
increased digital media consumption, growth in connected 
device penetration, growth in online video advertising and 
growth in in-play online sports betting. All of these trends are 
forecast to continue to improve over the next few years and 
the Group should continue to benefit from them.
Across the Group the growth of its advertising and 
sponsorship business was both a success, with this segment 
representing 23% of revenues (2012: 21%) and growing 51% 
year-on-year (2012: 130%), but also a disappointment with 
revenues in the second half of the year being lower than 
those we expected. In 2014 we will invest in our internal 
reporting and management information systems to improve 
revenue visibility and as a Board we have taken a more 
conservative view of forecasts in this business segment. That 
said, 2014 should show strong year-on-year revenue growth 
as investments in content, both editorial and rights, and 
our consumer products deliver more users and increased 
inventory with the positive effect of the FIFA 2014 World Cup.
The Group’s video-on-demand network, the ePlayer, had 
a very positive 2013. The Group increased the number of 
territories the ePlayer was live in from 24 at the end of 2013 to 
26, with launches in Brazil and Mexico. T otal streams viewed 
across the year increased to 5.0 billion (2012: 4.5 billion) and 
average monthly unique users increased to 126 million (2012: 
112 million). Importantly, across the year the Group’s ability 
to monetise these streams improved with a headline sell-
through-rate increasing to 48% (2012: 39%) with investment 
in sales teams and rights in Italy, Netherlands, Nigeria, Spain 
and the US.
Goal was successfully re-branded and re-launched, increasing 
its average monthly audience from 37 million unique users 
across web and mobile in 2012 to 43 million. By the end of 
2013, 37 editions were live, in 17 languages and over 1,500 
stories were being published each day. Goal will have a 
significant presence at the FIFA World Cup in Brazil in 2014, 
which should prove a good catalyst for consumer usage and 
advertising revenue.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15
Strategic  
Report
Corporate  
Governance
Financial 
Statements
