 It is a pleasure to introduce Perform’s third Annual 
Report as a public company. It has been another 
busy year for the Group and these results reflect its 
good, international revenue growth and a number 
of material acquisitions.
The results also reflect the challenges for 2014 with margin 
improvement, more effective integration of acquisitions and 
better management information systems all critical to ensure 
the long-term success of the Group.
2013 was a busy year for the Group with year-on-year 
revenue growth of 37% to £208.1 million (2012: £151.6 million) 
and the Group achieved profit after tax of £4.6 million 
(2012: £13.5 million). The 3% decline in Adjusted EBITDA to 
£36.4 million (2012: £37 .5 million) and the marginal decline 
in adjusted basic earnings per share to 10.4p (2012: 11.2p) 
were disappointing and reflected the weaker than expected 
performance in the second half of the year in Content 
Distribution, T echnology and Production and Display 
Advertising and Sponsorship. In addition, the pace of the 
Group’s recent growth has led to a substantial increase in 
the Group’s cost base. As a result we have undertaken a 
full review of our cost base and plans are now underway to 
address these challenges. In particular, restructuring plans are 
now being implemented, we are accelerating the integration 
of Opta and the roll-out of a new revenue and booking 
system has commenced.
These disappointments over-shadowed the growth of, and 
the increasing diversification and internationalisation of, the 
business and a number of important acquisitions, including 
the sports data business Opta and the establishment of the 
US venture Perform Sporting News Ltd.
The growth of the Advertising and Sponsorship revenue 
streams, both video and display, has been impressive with 
revenues growing 51% year-on-year and these revenues now 
comprise 23% of the Group’s total revenues compared to 
21% in 2012. In many cases this growth came through the 
establishment of in-house advertising sales teams in markets 
including the US, Canada, Spain, Nigeria and the Netherlands.
Particular highlights during the year include:
• the start of the process to renew the Watch&Bet service  
for the period 2014 to 2016;
• the addition to the Watch&Bet service of National 
Basketball Association content and the return of over 
2,000 events including Italian Serie A and French Ligue 1  
as part of a new deal with the sports agency MP & Silva;
• the international growth of the ePlayer, with the product 
now live in 26 territories and delivering over five billion 
streams across the year with a headline sell-through-rate 
of 48%;
• the re-brand and re-launch of all 37 editions of Goal; and 
• the successful share placing and resulting acquisition 
of Opta.
In January 2014, David Surtees, who had acted as Chief 
Financial Officer for the Group since 2008, stood down. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank David for his 
significant contribution over the last six years. David joined 
shortly after the formation of the Group and has helped to 
grow and build the business. We wish him well for the future. 
The search to find his successor is underway and we will 
make an announcement in due course.
As a Chairman and as a Board we view governance as 
particularly important. The Board meets regularly to discuss 
strategy and holds the Executive team accountable for its 
execution whilst ensuring that the entrepreneurial culture that 
has seen the Group grow so successfully over the last few 
years is maintained wherever possible.
Looking ahead, our priorities for 2014 are clear:
• selective acquisitions where complementary to the growth 
strategy and where integration and synergies can be 
achieved efficiently;
• continue to execute the Group’s organic growth strategy;
• improve margin through more effective management of 
the cost base;
• improve integration of acquisitions and deliver related  
cost savings more quickly;
• improve management information systems; and
• invest in new platforms and in new editorial content to 
grow the Group’s audiences, in particular across Goal in  
the run up to and during the FIFA 2014 World Cup Finals.
Finally, on behalf of the Group’s Board, I wish to express 
my sincere thanks again to all the Group’s employees for 
their commitment and support throughout another very 
busy year.
Paul Walker
Non–Executive Chairman
Chairman’s review
Corporate Governance
page 50
12 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Paul Walker
Non-Executive Chairman
Jörg Mohaupt
Non-Executive Director
Simon Denyer
Joint Chief  
Executive Officer
Peter Williams
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Peter Parmenter
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Oliver Slipper
Joint Chief  
Executive Officer
Marc Brown
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Gabby Logan
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Board diversity
 
  N o n- Ex e c u t i v e  
Directors 5
  Executive Directors 2
  N o n- Ex e c u t i v e  
Chairman 1
  M a l e 7
 Female 1
The Perform Board
The Board is responsible for the overall Group strategy, the appointment and 
removal of any Director, the approval of the Group’s annual budget, acquisition 
and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditures, the overall capital 
structure of the Group and consideration of significant financing and operational 
matters, and the approval of management incentive schemes.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13
Strategic  
Report
Corporate  
Governance
Financial 
Statements
