 It gives me great pleasure to write my 
inaugural Chairman’s Statement to you at  
this exciting juncture in Ariana’s development. 
Michael Spriggs, our previous Chairman, 
worked tirelessly to progress the Company 
from a grassroots explorer with interests 
in Turkey, to the business which I inherited 
as Chairman in July last year – a gold-silver 
developer on the eve of production, with plenty 
of exploration upside from a world class 
greenfield database. I would firstly like to 
take this opportunity to thank Michael for all 
he has done for the Company over his tenure 
as Chairman, as well as congratulate the 
rest of the team for significant and material 
achievements over the past year; all of which 
have moved Ariana closer to our objective  
of achieving gold production in the near term.
I will leave it to our ever-competent Managing 
Director , Dr . Kerim Sener , to run through  
the bulk of the operational successes that  
we have achieved over the year , but I believe it 
would be remiss of me not to highlight the key 
milestones which we have passed, and hurdles 
overcome, as we move towards becoming a 
cash generative gold explorer , developer and 
producer during the next year . 
Given that the Red Rabbit Gold Project (“RRGP”) 
is the most advanced in our portfolio, we have 
focused our efforts in this area. Our emphasis 
in 2013 was marked by systematically securing 
the requisite permits ahead of targeted 
production in the next 12 months. The year 
began with our Environmental Project 
Summary Document being submitted to the 
Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning for 
the Kiziltepe Sector of the RRGP, being the site 
of our initial mine. This marked the initiation  
of the formal process for the permitting of the 
mine. A further key milestone for the Company  
was the successful completion of the public 
and ministerial consultation process as part  
of our Environmental Impact Assessment 
(“EIA”) submission, with positive EIA certification 
subsequently being received in December  
2013. The public meeting was attended by 
approximately 100 people from the surrounding 
communities, and Ariana received overwhelming 
support for the proposed development of the 
mine at Kiziltepe. The Company also received 
confirmation from the Turkish authorities that 
the mine development site was also deemed 
suitable and appropriate by the Provincial 
Directorate.
Your company is fortunate to have developed 
a strong symbiotic relationship with a very 
successful and well respected Turkish mine 
construction firm in the form of Proccea 
Construction Co. Having such a technically and 
financially stable operator in partnership with 
Ariana, will enable us to jointly develop both 
the Red Rabbit project, as well as any new gold 
resources we are in the process of discovering. 
Proccea continues to fund the development 
of the Red Rabbit project under their earn in 
arrangement and have successfully advanced 
the arrangements for local project finance  
for the mine construction.
The support of the local community and 
regional authorities is very important to the 
Ariana team, and also to the success of the 
RRGP . We are now on the verge of creating  
a project that generates new revenue and  
local employment in the region, enhancing  
the overall socio-economic development of  
the area. Our plans for local employment 
include the employment of approximately  
100 people directly in mining and processing 
and a further multiple thereof employed 
indirectly via support services and related 
enterprises.
Michael de Villiers 
Chairman
Chairman’ s 
statement
  
Given that the Red Rabbit  
Gold Project (“RRGP”) is the 
most advanced in our portfolio, 
we have focused our efforts in 
this area. Our emphasis in 2013 
was marked by systematically 
securing the requisite permits 
ahead of targeted production  
in the next 12 months.
Ariana Resources PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2013  
 
04
Strategic Report  With a current mine life of eight years from 
Kiziltepe itself and a further two satellite 
targets at Kizilcukur and Ivrindi, the road 
map for the next decade is well established. 
However the Ariana board is confident that 
this mine life can be substantially enhanced 
through the delineation of additional mineable 
resources in and around the Kiziltepe area, 
which, in due course, would feed into the 
main Kiziltepe plant. With this in mind, our 
specifications for the plant and Tailing Storage 
Facility surpass the current parameters  
of the project, ensuring our mining operations 
at the RRGP are sustainable in the long term.
One factor affecting the sustainability of  
our , and in fact all, gold projects is the long 
term gold price. I think I speak for most gold 
explorers, developers and producers in saying 
that 2013 was a truly dismal year for gold – 
dropping from highs almost touching US$1,900 
to recent lows of below US$1,200. There  
was a marginal recovery during the first few  
months of this year . However , the long term 
message for gold companies, and investors  
in gold equities, is that low cost producers  
can still generate healthy margins and  
hence deliver attractive returns for investors. 
I am pleased to say that with projected cash 
costs at around US$600/oz, the RRGP enjoys  
robust economic fundamentals even at low  
gold prices. The importance of this cannot be 
overstated – by keeping our gold production 
costs low, we can support a long term 
sustainable and successful gold production 
project for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Our exploration interests fall into three distinct 
segments: proximal exploration of prospects 
in the wider RRGP area; exploration and 
development in tandem with our joint venture 
partner Eldorado Gold over the 1.09 Moz Ardala 
and Salinbaş areas in north-eastern Turkey; 
and progression of targeted areas using the 
Newmont database secured in March 2013. 
These key exploration interests, together  
with Ariana’s investment in Tigris Resources, 
which focuses on the frontier gold province 
of south-eastern Turkey , provide Ariana with 
extensive blue-sky upside over the coming 
months and years. Indeed, positioning 
ourselves as a soon-to-be cash generative 
gold exploration company with an exceptional 
mineralised footprint across Turkey gives us  
a unique competitive advantage. 
Our focus on Turkey is not purely down to  
the country boasting world-class mineralised 
provinces, but also reflects on the very 
roots of Ariana. We have a strong Turkish 
identity , stemming from many of our senior 
management and board members having 
Turkish backgrounds and/or nationality ,  
which, I believe has helped the evolution  
of the Company and kept it aligned with the 
requirements and desires of all stakeholders. 
Our Managing Director , Dr . Kerim Sener is  
a Turkish national, and is a strong proponent 
of doing business in this rapidly emerging 
European economic powerhouse. Despite the 
well-documented political developments over 
the past 12 months, Turkey remains a stable 
and supportive jurisdiction for the development 
of mineral resources and we remain committed 
to investing in the country in the coming years. 
Our strong affiliations within Turkey , both on a 
regional and national scale, have been critical 
to building a sustainable project with significant 
longevity creating a long-term revenue 
generator and employer for the local region.
I would like to take this opportunity to again 
thank the Ariana team and Proccea, whose 
unwavering support for achieving our 
strategic and operational goals has driven the 
Company’s progress forward. I would also like 
to extend my thanks to the local communities in 
and around the RRGP area for their continuing 
support and guidance throughout this process, 
without whom we would not have been able  
to reach this point. Lastly , I would like to show 
my gratitude to our shareholders and reiterate 
my confidence that the next year will prove  
to be a transformational period for Ariana  
as we move into mine construction and begin 
generating revenues – a momentous occasion 
for any gold developer .
Michael de Villiers
Chairman
5 June 2014 
  
Our strong affiliations 
within Turkey, both on 
a regional and national 
scale, have been critical 
to building a sustainable 
project with significant 
longevity creating a long 
term revenue generator 
and employer for the  
local region.
Ariana Resources PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2013  
 
05
Strategic Report
Chairman’s statement
