 P 6 Aricom Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Chief
Executive’s
R eview 
I am pleased to
report on Aricom’s first
year of development
towards becoming
a low-cost vertically-
integrated producer
of high-quality titanium
dioxide to serve the
markets of Russia
and China.
Tom Swithenbank
Chief Executive
The Market Opportunity
Titanium dioxide is a “quality of life”
product – as people become wealthier,
the appearance of the products they 
use becomes more important, and
consumption of TiO 2 increases
commensurately. This is particularly
relevant to us as we address developing
markets where we are witnessing the
rapid growth of a middle class, such as
Russia and China.
This is one of the key reasons why Aricom
intends to focus primarily on the markets
of Russia and China. These markets have
posted strong economic growth over
recent years, and we believe we have
identified a real opportunity to participate
in that growth. 
Per capita consumption of titanium
dioxide in Russia and China is very low
compared to levels in the developed
markets. We estimate per capita
consumption in Russia to be around 0.4kg
per capita, and in China around 0.35kg per
capita. US and Western European per
capita consumption of titanium dioxide
are, respectively, 4.0kg and 2.6kg,
suggesting that there is a considerable
consumption gap to bridge. Whilst we 
do not believe that per capita consumption
in these markets will attain US, or 
even Western European, levels anytime
soon, we do see considerable growth
opportunities for this product in both 
of these countries. 
This is clearly reflected in the growth
statistics available to us. Between 1997
and 2002, TiO 2 consumption in China grew
by 21.9% per annum on a compound
basis. The equivalent figure in Russia was
13.9%. In both instances, titanium dioxide
consumption growth exceeded general
economic growth (measured by GDP)
suggesting that titanium dioxide provides
an ideal vehicle to gain leveraged
exposure to the growth of both of these
dynamic economies.
The size of the markets in Russia and
China are estimated at 70,000tpa and
450,000tpa respectively. Titanium dioxide
is not currently produced on an industrial
scale in Russia and users of the product
import almost 100% of their needs. The
Ukrainian producers, GAK Titan and OOO
Sumikhimprom, are traditionally the most
important suppliers of TiO 2 to the Russian
market. In China, the domestic production
base is fragmented amongst numerous
small and inefficient producers of lower-
grade pigments. 
Since the admission to trading of Aricom’s
shares on the London Stock Exchange’s
AIM market in December 2003 and the
associated acquisition of Peter Hambro
Mining Group’s titanium assets, we have
been working hard to lay the foundations 
of our business. 
An important step was achieved in March
2005 with the successful placing of an
additional 38.25 million shares with
investors in the UK and Europe, which
raised approximately US$20 million
(US$18m net of expenses) to fund the
next stage of our development. These
funds will be used to initiate the
construction of the mining and
beneficiation operations at Olekma 
and Kuranakh and to provide the 
Group with working capital.
Aricom looks to the success of Peter
Hambro Mining plc as a model for its own
development, combining skills available
both in Russia and the UK to create a 
true Anglo-Russian partnership. During
the last year the Company formed an
operating subsidiary, OOO Aricom, 
which is located in Russia and headed 
by Yuri Makarov, who is primarily
responsible for managing Aricom’s
mining and marketing operations 
in Russia. 
What is Titanium Dioxide?
When most people think of titanium, 
they do so in its metallic form. In fact, 
over 90% of titanium feedstock is
processed into titanium dioxide (TiO 2), 
a white pigment used extensively in the
paints, plastics and paper industries as
well as in a host of other products, such
as pharmaceuticals and cosmetics. 
It is its hiding power – its ability to mask
other colours – that makes it a prime
ingredient for paints and other coatings. 
It is valued in the paper industry where
“show-through” needs to be minimised
and in plastics, where TiO 2 is used
to cover up the translucency of the
base resin. P 7 Aricom Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
promising profitable and cash-generative
mining project. In addition, indications
were received in the final quarter on 
the possible presence of gold and zircon
in the tailings from the beneficiation
process. We are currently working to
ascertain how much of each element may
be available at the deposit and how best
to extract each of them from the tailings.
It is on the basis of these positive findings
that management has developed a two-
stage approach to the overall project. We
are aggressively pursuing the development
of the mine and beneficiation operations,
which represent the first stage of the
project, and look forward to achieving
positive operating cash flows from 
late 2007. 
Concurrent to this, we are developing 
the plan for the construction of the
processing plant, which forms the 
second stage of Aricom’s development
programme. One of the key elements 
of this second stage is the choice of
technology to be used to produce titanium
dioxide. Aricom has received a technology
proposal and is in discussions with a
number of other parties for technology
licensing. These discussions are expected
to be concluded during 2005, at which
point the design phase of the plan will 
be initiated. This phase is expected to 
last 9-12 months. Subject to obtaining 
the required funding, construction of 
the processing plant is expected to be
initiated in 2006 so production can
commence in late 2008, at which point
Aricom would reach its objective of
becoming a vertically-integrated producer
of titanium dioxide. 
GAK Titan
Aricom continues to express an interest 
in participating in a joint venture with 
GAK Titan, the Ukrainian TiO 2 producer .
Aricom previously held an option to
acquire Occidental Titanium Company
Ltd., an English company, which based 
on a memorandum of understanding, 
was intended to be a participant in 
a proposed joint venture with GAK 
Titan. The proposal was, and remains,
interesting to the management of 
Aricom as it would open up a further
opportunity to capture a share of the
regional TiO 2 pigment markets. However 
a lack of clarity and a substantial 
increase in the political risk ahead of 
the presidential elections in Ukraine
resulted in no action being taken by
Aricom in relation to these arrangements.
We are currently considering the situation
in light of the election of President
Yushchenko in January 2005. 
A proprietary study we commissioned in
2004 indicates that 54% of TiO 2 demand in
China is now imported. Three quarters of
global TiO 2 production capacity is located
in the traditional markets of Western
Europe and North America yet the highest
growth market is in China. If current
growth rates are maintained, China will
surpass the US as the largest market 
for TiO 2 within a decade but concerns 
over technology leakage and the difficult
operating environment in China have
dissuaded major producers of TiO 2 from
locating production in the market itself.
We believe that this reluctance by the
majors to move aggressively to satisfy
Chinese demand has created an
opportunity for Aricom.
The Plan
By locating our operations in Russia’s
Amur Region, we can develop a
production facility to serve both the
Chinese and the Russian markets. 
The ability to produce TiO 2 cost effectively
is key to the success of the project,
allowing us to price competitively relative
to imported materials. Locating in Russia
should allow us to operate more cost
effectively than many other players in the
market and by being in or close to the
markets we wish to serve, we can reduce
the cost of transportation to the end user .
By producing our own feedstock we 
should be in a position to acquire 
the key raw material for the production 
of TiO 2 at a lower cost and more reliably
than buying it from third parties. The
construction of a modern plant should
also allow us to maximise cost efficiency
by designing from new.
The Aricom project is composed of three
parts: mining, processing and marketing
together providing the intended vertical
integration. The mining operations, based
on the ilmenite deposit at Kuranakh, 
are to supply the ilmenite feedstock to 
the planned titanium dioxide processing 
plant. A suitable site for the plant has
been identified in Tynda, also in the 
Amur Region. The final products are 
to be supplied to end users through a
marketing operation, founded on the
current activities of Chemelt, Aricom’s
wholly owned titanium dioxide trading
company based in Moscow. 
Work carried out over 2004 on the
economic presence of iron ore, in the
form of titanomagnetite, at the deposit 
at Kuranakh suggests that Aricom can
develop a mining operation which will 
not only produce ilmenite feedstock 
for a TiO 2 processing plant, but also
titanomagnetite concentrate for sale to
third parties. These findings point to a
TiO 2 Supply and Demand in China
and Russia vs GDP Growth
CAGR 1997 - 2000
China
Russia
0.0 5.0 10.0 15.5 20.0 25.0
450,000tpa
70,000tpa
•
TiO2 consumption growth
•
GDP growth
Per Capita TiO 2 
Consumption kg (2000)
Ex-Soviet
Republics
North 
Africa
Eastern 
Europe
East Asia
Western
Europe
North
America
01 2 3 4 5 P 8 Aricom Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Phase 1: The Kuranakh Mine
We are proposing to develop 
an open-pit mining operation 
at Kuranakh, and construct a
beneficiation plant at the mine 
site to produce the concentrates 
of ilmenite and titanomagnetite.
Chief 
Executive’s 
R eview
continued
mining P 9 Aricom Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Mining
Olekminsky Rudnik, a 74% owned
subsidiary of Aricom plc, holds an
exploration and mineral licence to develop
the ilmenite-titanomagnetite deposit at
Kuranakh in the north west of the Amur
Region in the Far East of Russia. The
licence extends to 2027. The deposit is
situated on the north western flank of the
Kalarskiy massive, approximately 35km
from the settlement of Olekma. Crucially,
Olekma is on the Baikal Amur Magistral
(BAM), the railway which links to the
Russian eastern seaboard, as well as to
the Trans-Siberian railway and into China
and Western Russia. This railway will be
used to transport the mine products to
the proposed titanium dioxide processing
plant and to third party consumers.
Aricom is proposing to develop an open-
pit mining operation at Kuranakh, and
construct a beneficiation plant at the 
mine site to produce the concentrates 
of ilmenite and titanomagnetite, as well 
as a transfer station and living quarters 
at Olekma. A road and electricity
transmission line will also be laid to link
the mine and Olekma. A business plan
prepared by Vnipiprom points to a capital
cost of US$56 million to develop mining
operations capable of extracting 2.2
million tonnes per annum of ore and
processing these into 240,000 tonnes 
per annum of ilmenite concentrate and
660,000 tonnes per annum of iron ore, in
the form of titanomagnetite concentrate.
Based on these target production rates,
the cash costs are currently estimated at
US$24 per tonne of ilmenite concentrate
and US$13 per tonne of titanomagnetite
concentrate. The recently announced
price increases in excess of 70% for
existing iron ore producers confirm our
enthusiasm for the prospects for the 
mine as a profitable and cash-generative
business. The completion of the placing 
in March 2005, raising approximately
US$20 million (before expenses), 
has allowed Aricom to initiate the
development of these operations. The
remaining capital costs of the project 
will require further funding.
The beneficiation process is being
developed by two related Russian
institutes, VIMS and DVIMS, based on
widely available technology which is 
being adapted to suit the characteristics
of the Kuranakh ore. The technology to 
be used is well-proven and the mining
and beneficiation operations are being
designed to operate all year round. It 
was a prerequisite for the viability of the
proposed project that the quality of the
ilmenite concentrate to be produced
through the beneficiation process would
be suitable for the production of TiO 2. 
Expected Products
Ilmenite concentrate
Titano-magnetite concentrate
Possible Co-products
Zircon
Gold
Beneficiation Process
The beneficiation process is being
developed by the Russian Institute, VIMS,
based on well-known technology . The
process will be capable of being run 
year-round.
Mining operations
Primary dry
separation
Crushing, grinding
Classification
Wet magnetic
separation
Grinding
Gravity separation
Drying
Electric separation
Ilmenite concentrate
Overburden
Titano-magnetite
concentrate
Tailings
Gold/Zircon
A study by the specialist German ore
research centre, Studiengesellschaft 
für Eisenerzaufbereitung, and tests by
Sachtleben GmbH have confirmed that
the ore can be processed into a feedstock
suitable for TiO 2 production.
Tests on samples from the tailings from
the beneficiation works have shown that
gold and zircon may also be present 
at the Kuranakh deposit. If these are
confirmed to be available in economic
quantities, this could add to the projected
revenues from Aricom’s mining business.
Additional costs of extraction could be 
low given that both elements are already
concentrated into the tailings of the
beneficiation process. Further work has
been commissioned to investigate the
resources available and the potential
costs of extraction. 
The Kuranakh licence area covers three
major ore zones, called Saikta, Baltylakh
and Saibalakh. Most of the work carried
out so far has been on the ore zones in
the Saikta deposit, which is made up of a
series of at least eight discrete ore bodies.
Exploration on Saikta was initiated in 
1982 by Soviet state geological institutes
and has been continued by Aricom 
over the course of the past 18 months.
Dalgeofizika, one of the independent
Russian research institutes working with
Aricom, has completed a review of the
exploration works carried out to date and
has concluded that Aricom has sufficient
reserves under the Russian reserves
classification system to last for an initial
16 years of production at 2.2m tonnes per
annum of ore extraction. The estimated
resource base yields sufficient resources
for at least 50 years of production at the
same target production levels.
A five-year exploration plan for the
Kuranakh licence area has been
developed to extend the proven reserves
and resources available to the Group 
for future production.
Wardell Armstrong International, the UK
based energy and minerals consultant,
has completed a technical review of the
geological work carried out to date as
well as the proposed mine plan and
beneficiation process and have confirmed
that they support the conclusions drawn
to date.
Aricom’s mining and beneficiation
operations are expected to come into
production in late 2007. Conditional
offtake agreements were signed in
January 2005 with China National Gold
Corporation. These agreements are
described in the marketing section of 
this report.
Ore outcrop at Kuranakh P 10 Aricom Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Phase 2: The TiO
2
Processing Plant
The plant will be designed to produce
high quality pigments for domestic 
and export markets, with a focus on
Russia and China.
processing
Chief 
Executive’s 
R eview
continued P 11 Aricom Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
technology from existing producers and 
is currently in discussions with a number
of parties regarding the licensing of such
technology. The Group has an offer in
place but is considering all options before
reaching a final decision on technology.
We believe that this is an area where 
we will be fully rewarded for taking 
the appropriate time to conclude the 
best agreement.
A suitable site has been identified for 
the location of the processing plant at
Tynda, 440kms on the BAM Railway from
Olekma. This direct rail link between 
the mine and the processing plant should
allow the cost effective transport of
feedstock. Tynda is a town with a
population of 45,000 and offers the
amenities and infrastructure required for
the operation of a plant of this nature and
size. The local authorities are keen to
attract investment into the area and are
assisting Aricom with its plans.
Processing
The second stage of Aricom’s strategy
involves the construction of a 70,000-
80,000 tonnes per annum titanium dioxide
processing plant. It is intended that the
plant will be designed to produce high
quality pigments for domestic and 
export markets, with a focus on Russia
and China.
The first phase of a bankable feasibility
study was completed in December 2003
by the German engineering company,
Ferrostaal AG, with technical input from
the German titanium dioxide producer,
Sachtleben GmbH. This concluded that
the development of a vertically-integrated
titanium dioxide project was technically
and economically feasible in the Amur
Region, based on the production of
ilmenite concentrate at Kuranakh. 
The plan originally envisaged the
development of a 50,000 tonne per 
annum plant with a view to a subsequent
doubling of capacity. Discussions with
Ferrostaal have led to the conclusion 
that an initial 70,000-80,000 tonnes of
annual capacity would be equally feasible
and this now forms the basis of Aricom’s
plans for the processing plant. 
The global TiO 2 production sector is highly
concentrated with the top 5 producers
representing 73% of global capacity and
the restricted availability of technology is
one of the key barriers for new entrants
into the TiO 2 sector . Aricom is seeking to
acquire sulphate route production
Sulphate Process
Ilmenite
Digestion
Hydrolysis
(heat)
Filtration
Clarification
Wet Grinding
Coating
Dry Grinding
Dry Grinding
Crystallisation
(cool)
Sulphuric acid
Ti0 2 (rutile or anatase grade)
Reduction
Calcination
Ti0S0 4 solution
Uncoated Ti0 2 pigment
Coating materials
Finished Ti0 2 pigment
Copperas
FeS0 4.7H 20
Scrap iron
Nuclei P 12 Aricom Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Chemelt: 
Chemelt, Aricom plc’s wholly-owned
titanium dioxide trading company ,
was established in 2002 to test the
market for titanium dioxide in Russia. 
mark eting
Chief 
Executive’s 
R eview
continued P 13 Aricom Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Chemelt’s role is an important one 
as, whilst developing into a successful
business in its own right, it is laying 
the foundations and establishing the
relationships that Aricom will require
when it looks to distribute its own
titanium dioxide products in the Russian
market. We are very pleased with the
progress the Company is making.
Aricom is currently examining its options
for distribution into China. Clearly this is
an important step for the Group and is
potentially related to the licensing route
that the Group ultimately chooses. 
We intend to develop our distribution
strategy for China over the course of 2005. 
Aricom has also been active in marketing
the products it expects to produce from 
its mining and benefication operations 
at Kuranakh. Aricom’s subsidiary, OOO
Aricom, signed two conditional offtake
agreements in January 2005 with China
National Gold Corporation, a Group
headquartered in Beijing, with substantial
interests in gold mining, international
minerals trading and engineering
contracting. These agreements provide
for OOO Aricom to supply China National
Gold Corporation a total of a least 360,000
tonnes of ilmenite concentrate over one
and a half years and at least 3,300,000
tonnes of titanomagnetite concentrate
over five years. The agreements will 
come into effect once Aricom secures 
the required financing to complete its
Kuranakh mining project, and deliveries
are scheduled to start in late 2007 
when the planned mining operations 
are expected to come on stream. It is
intended that all of the production of the
planned Kuranakh mine will be supplied
to China National Gold Corporation for 
the life of these agreements. The shorter
duration of the ilmenite contract reflects
Aricom’s objective to establish its own TiO 2
plant to which the ilmenite would be
supplied once it becomes operational.
Marketing
Chemelt, Aricom plc’s wholly-owned
titanium dioxide trading company, was
established in 2002 to test the market for
titanium dioxide in Russia.
By becoming actively involved in the
market, Aricom has been able to develop
an understanding of the dynamics and
practices of the market, not only in Russia
but also in the wider global arena. 
The Russian market has been
traditionally dominated by the Ukrainian
producers, the historic source of TiO 2
under the Soviet system. It is for this
same historic reason that Russia has 
no domestic production of titanium
dioxide on an industrial scale, forcing
Russian consumers to import virtually 
all of their needs. Although the Ukrainian
hold on these markets has been
diminishing in recent years, their role
remains important. We estimate that 
the Ukrainians continue to supply
approximately 60% of Russian demand.
Chemelt has been acting as an official
distributor for GAK Titan, the larger of 
the two Ukrainian producers, since 2003
and has been appointed as a favoured
partner for 2005. 
By representing such an important player
on the Russian market, Chemelt has
successfully increased the penetration 
of its distribution network, developing its
client list to 125 over the course of 2004
and increasing its sales by 50% over 
the same period. Chemelt has been
aggressive in its pricing tactics to gain 
an initial foothold in the Russian market
but is expected to break even in 2005.
The company has also worked to increase
the range of products it offers to its
customers. Chemelt has introduced to 
the Russian markets the products of
Cristal, the Saudi Arabian TiO 2 producer,
addressing the increasing demand for
higher quality products from its clients. 
It is currently exploring the possibility 
of distributing Chinese products in 
the Russian market and examining
complementary products to sell into 
the Russian paints and plastics sectors.
Paint and plastics producers are the key consumers of TI0 2
