 P 4 Aricom Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Aricom at
a Glance
The Amur Region is located in the Far East 
of Russia on the border with China. Locating
Aricom’s operations in Amur allows the
Group to benefit both from the cost
advantages of locating in Russia as well 
as from the proximity to its key intended
markets, Russia and China, thus reducing
the costs of transporting the final product 
to the end customers. These should allow
Aricom to be cost competitive in its 
chosen markets.
The market
we work in
The Aricom Plan
Aricom
Locations
Vertical Integration
Traditionally the TiO2 feedstock and
production sectors have been distinct
from one another, with TiO2 producers 
in America, for example, often sourcing
their raw material in Africa or Australia.
Aricom is proposing to bridge this gap
by becoming a vertically-integrated
producer of titanium dioxide, producing
ilmenite feedstock from its proposed
mine at Kuranakh to feed its intended
TiO2 processing plant, a site for which
has been identified at Tynda. The
proximity of the operations to one
another minimises transportation 
costs and should ensure a ready 
supply of raw material.
Mining &
Beneficiation
Producing feedstock for Aricom’s planned
TiO2 processing operations and iron ore 
for the iron and steel industries.
Processing
Producing high-quality titanium dioxide at
low cost for sale into China and Russia.
Marketing
To manage the sales of Aricom’s 
future production of TiO2.
Aricom Operation 
Titanium dioxide is a white pigment used 
primarily in the paints, plastics and paper
industries. The global titanium dioxide market
generates approximately US$8bn of annual sales,
based on the production of 4.5m tonnes per year .
Following a wave of consolidation in the 1990s, 
the top five producers hold 73% of global
production capacity, with 75% of total capacity
located in North America and Western Europe. 
Whilst the markets in Western Europe and 
North America are deemed to be mature, the
developing markets of Russia and China are
seeing very attractive growth in TiO 2 consumption.
These are the markets that Aricom is focusing on. P 5 Aricom Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
TiO 2 processing products
Titanium dioxide pigment
End user info
Paints
Plastics 
Paper
A proposed mining and beneficiation operation based at Kuranakh in the Amur Region
producing 240,000tpa of ilmenite concentrate and 660,000tpa of iron ore, in the form of
titano-magnetite concentrate, based on the annual extraction of 2.2mtpa of ore. The
ilmenite concentrate is to feed Aricom’s proposed titanium dioxide processing plant. 
The titano-magnetite concentrate, a form of iron ore, is to be sold to Chinese clients. 
Two conditional offtake agreements have been signed for the sale to China National Gold
Corporation of a minimum of 3,300,000 tonnes of titano-magnetite concentrate and 
360,000 tonnes of ilmenite concentrate once the mine comes on stream. The presence of
gold and zircon has also been indicated in the tailings of the beneficiation process and
additional work has been commissioned to ascertain the economic viability of extracting
these two products.
Aricom is proposing to build a 70,000-80,000tpa titanium dioxide processing plant in the Amur
Region. A pre-feasibility study carried out by Ferrostaal AG, the German engineering company,
with technical input from Sachtleben, the German titanium dioxide producer, has shown the
economic and technical feasibility of the project. The Company is currently in discussions with
a number of parties regarding the provision of technology for the production of TiO2. The plant
is intended to produce a high-quality pigment at low cost for sale into the markets of China
and Russia.
4Q07
Current
Aricom intends to focus its sales of TiO2 into the markets of China and Russia. 
A wholly-owned trading and distribution company, Chemelt, was established in 
Moscow in 2002, which currently trades third party titanium dioxide products in 
the Russian market. Chemelt has been posting encouraging growth and is 
laying the foundations of Aricom’s distribution network in Russia for the sale 
of its intended future production of titanium dioxide.
Business Activity Products Expected Start of Production
4Q08
Ti02 Global Market
1.DuPont 22%
2.Millenium 15%
3. Kerr McGee 13%
4.Huntsman 13%
5.Kronos 10%
6.ISK 5%
7.Kemira 3%
8. Others 19%
> US$8bn market
>4.5m tpa TiO2 production
> T op 5 producers hold 73% 
of the global market
> 75% production capacity in 
W.Europe and N.America
> Tightly held technology
> China and Russia seeing high 
growth in TiO2 consumption
Mining
Kuranakh is located 35kms from the
settlement of Olekma, which is on
the Baikal Amur Magistral (BAM)
railway . It is this proximity to a key
Russian rail line which allows mine
products to be moved economically.
Processing
A site has been identified for the
location of the TiO2 processing plant
at Tynda, which is situated 440kms
from Olekma via the BAM railway.
Tynda has a population of 45,000 
and offers the amenities and 
access to labour, water and 
energy required for the successful
operation of a processing plant.
Marketing
Chemelt operates from Moscow,
serving a Russian client base. Its
location allows it to access the most
important Russian clients, which 
are principally located in European
Russia. It also maintains links with
its key suppliers in Ukraine, Saudi
Arabia and Israel.
–– ––– – 1.
–– ––– – 2.
–– ––– – 3. 4.–– ––– –
6.–– ––– –
7.–– ––– –
8.–– ––– –
5.–– ––– –
Mine products
Ilmenite concentrate. 
Titano-magnetite
concentrate (Iron ore)
Possible co-products
Zircon
Gold-containing ores
Possible co-products
Copperas
Gypsum
