 P 2 Aricom Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Chairman ’s
Statement 
Future Strategy
In November 2004 we announced that
following extensive research studies
during 2004 we have been able to confirm
not only the market opportunity described
in the AIM Admission Document in
December 2003 but also that there is
substantial potential for us to fulfil our
vision of becoming a vertically integrated
TiO 2 producer .
The future strategic direction for Aricom
is to be delivered in two stages:
• The construction and development of
the mining operation at Kuranakh and
the beneficiation plant at Olekma.
• The construction of a processing plant
to produce 70,000-80,000 tonnes per
annum of TiO 2 pigment.
Tom Swithenbank, our Chief Executive
Officer, provides details of delivery of
these plans in his CEO's Report. When
both of these stages are completed we
will have unlocked the benefits of being 
a vertically integrated TiO 2 producer .
The cash expenditure during 2004 is
described by Peter Howes, our Finance
Director, in his report. It has been a year
mainly of investment expenditure on the
future direction of the Group. Since the
year end we have completed a successful
placing of 38.25 million shares at 28p
raising approximately US$20 million
(US$18 million net of expenses), providing
cash facilities to complete the technical
and economic feasibility study for the
mining project and to undertake certain
preparatory works at Olekma and
Kuranakh, in addition to funding ongoing
operational expenditure for the Group
through to the first quarter of 2006.
Dear Shareholder , 
It is a great pleasure to present our
first Annual Report and Accounts
covering the progress we have
made during the period from
September 2003 to December
2004. 2004 has been a busy year
for the management of Aricom as
it has sought to lay the foundations
for the transformation of the
Company into a fully fledged
operating entity .
Sir Malcolm Field
Chairman P 3 Aricom Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Anglo-Russian Partnership
The strong links with Peter Hambro
Mining Plc and its considerable
experience and operational success in 
the Far East of Russia is helping Aricom
to establish a strong Anglo-Russian
partnership which is essential to our
future success.  
We are building a strong management
team in both the UK and Russia. During
the year we were delighted to welcome 
to the Board, Mr Yuri Makarov, who is
responsible for developing and managing
our mining operation.
Aricom Values
We are establishing a value-based culture
founded on safe work practices for our
employees and conducting business in a
sustainable, socially and environmentally
responsible way. We want our employees
to experience the personal satisfaction
that comes with high performance and
recognition. We want our shareholders
to realise superior returns on their
investment and to know their company
operates best practice corporate
governance. This is the culture we
intend to create across this young and
growing company.
Future Investment
The successful fundraising of
approximately US$20m (US$18m net 
of expenses) completed in March 2005
will enable us to fund the next stages of
developing the mine at the Kuranakh
deposit and part of the construction at 
the mine site of a beneficiation plant. 
The completion of this work is currently
intended to be funded by further equity
and/or debt financing to be sought later
this year .
We are most grateful for the support of
our shareholders and thank you for the
confidence you have shown in us.
Sir Malcolm Field
Chairman
Market Positioning
Aricom's plan is to become a low-cost
vertically integrated producer of high-
quality TiO 2, serving the high-growth
markets of Russia and China. We 
are encouraged by the planning and
development work we have undertaken
on the mining programme. We are
enthusiastic about its potential to provide
good-quality ilmenite ore and iron 
ore in the form of titanomagnetite. The
presence of iron ore has substantially
changed the economics of the mining
project, with indicated returns exceeding
management's original expectations. We
are very enthusiastic about the prospects
for the mine as a profitable and cash-
generative business, particulary given 
the recently announced price increases 
in excess of 70% for existing iron ore
producers. The recent discovery of gold 
and zircon, albeit not yet quantified, 
could offer another potential source 
of substantial revenue. Our plan for 
the mining operation as a stand-alone
operation should provide good returns 
to investors and will be an important
source of competitive advantage to our
TiO 2 processing operation.
The key foundations for the establishment
of a vertically integrated low-cost producer
of high quality TiO 2 are being put in place
and will be developed further in 2005.
They cover the mine located at Olekma,
close to the Chinese border, the
favourable findings from our geological
studies regarding our products, the
suggested location of our TiO 2 processing
plant at Tynda and the further development
of our wholly-owned marketing and
distribution company, Chemelt.
We have yet to finalise arrangements 
with a technology licence provider for 
our processing plant but I am pleased to
report we are continuing our discussions
with a number of very interested parties
and expect to conclude a deal over the
course of the coming year .
We remain confident with our assumptions
of continuing strong growth in both
the Russian and Chinese markets and
increasing demand for our products.
Work completed in 2004
• Review by Dalgeofizika of the
historical work carried out on the
resource base at Kuranakh
• Detailed exploration of Zone 3 of
the Saikta deposit at Kuranakh 
by Dalgeofizika
• Mine plan by Gornoobogatitelni
T echnologies for the exploitation of
Zone 3 of the Saikta deposit
• Economic plan on the development
of Zone 3 by VnipiProm T echnology
• Hydrogeological study by Gidek
• Study on the appropriate technology
for the beneficiation of ilmenite and
titano-magnetite ore at Kuranakh 
by VIMS 
• Study on the technological properties
and concentration of titano-magnetite
ore from Kuranakh by DVIMS 
• Study on the suitability of Kuranakh
ore for the production of titano-
magnetite and ilmenite concentrates
by Studiengesellschaft für
Eisenerzaufbereitung
“Since the year end we
undertook a successful
fundraising of US$20m
(US$18m net of expenses).”
Sir Malcolm Field
