 14
Petrofac Annual report 
and accounts 2008 Business review
2008 was another very successful year for Petrofac.  
What are the main factors behind this achievement? 
I am very proud of our performance during the year, which was the 
direct result of the expertise and commitment of our workforce 
around the world. Our people set themselves the highest standards 
and do their utmost to achieve them, at all times and on every 
project we work on. 
Petrofac has always had an entrepreneurial culture and this is 
something that we strive to maintain. We try and do things 
differently and are open to new ideas and new commercial models 
that deliver more value for our customers, as well as for our 
shareholders. For example, we can provide our services through a 
number of commercial formats. From straightforward reimbursable 
arrangements with or without an element of performance-based 
income to lump-sum turnkey agreements, all the way through to 
co-investing with our customers in upstream and infrastructure 
projects where that meets their needs and ours.
Another important factor behind our success is the number of our 
people who own shares in the Company and therefore have a 
direct, personal interest in delivering long-term and sustainable 
value. More than 40% of our shares belong to employees and 
approximately one in five of our employees are either shareholders 
or participate in our share award schemes. 
How is the economic downturn impacting on Petrofac?
Triggered by the liquidity crisis in the banking sector, the broader 
macroeconomic environment clearly changed very dramatically 
during the second half of 2008 and, although governments across 
the world have taken concerted action to support the banking 
system and to stimulate demand, confidence remains low and 
the near-term prospects for the global economy continue to be 
uncertain. In response to rapidly falling forecasts of economic 
activity, all commodity prices, including oil, have fallen dramatically 
from the all-time highs hit last year.
Against this extremely challenging backdrop I am pleased to say 
that Petrofac remains in a strong position and, although we cannot 
ignore external circumstances, I believe we are very well-placed 
to maintain our growth. Our geographic focus, particularly in the 
Middle East and Africa, where the cost of oil production is relatively 
low, the extensive long-term relationships we have established with 
world-class national and international oil companies and our 
competitive cost structure all put us in a strong competitive  
position as we have shown by our continuing success in winning 
new business. 
What have been the key events of 2008?
The Engineering & Construction division continued to execute 
projects with great skill and resourcefulness. 2008 saw many 
impressive achievements, including the securing of a major 
contract to engineer, procure and build a gas pipeline to the Mina 
Al-Ahmadi refinery in Kuwait and new contracts to construct gas 
treatment plants for the Ebla and Jihar projects in Syria.
In Operations Services, we completed our first full year of operating 
Dubai’s offshore assets. While our operations continue to progress 
well, sadly, a helicopter incident occurred approximately 70 
kilometres off the Dubai coast on 3 September 2008. There were 
no Petrofac personnel onboard but the two aircrew and five 
passengers, who worked for companies contracted to Dubai 
Petroleum, all lost their lives. This was a terrible tragedy, and the 
investigation by the authorities in Dubai to identify the cause is still 
ongoing. We work in some challenging environments and incidents 
like this show why the safety of our people and all those impacted 
by our operations is absolutely key to everything we do at Petrofac. 
During 2008, Operations Services finalised arrangements to 
provide turnkey operations services on the Northern Producer, the 
floating production facility on the Don fields in the North Sea which 
are being developed by our Energy Developments business, and 
extended our Duty Holder contracts with BHP Billiton (Irish Sea 
Pioneer) and Venture Production (Kittiwake).
Energy Developments made significant progress with the Don fields 
during the year and first oil is expected during the first half of 2009. 
In Tunisia, the commercial export of gas from the Chergui plant 
commenced in August. We have been able to expand the plant 
capacity by more than 20% and have delivered higher than 
expected productivity from the reservoir. As a result we are 
negotiating a revised higher volume gas sales contract with 
the offtaker. 
What does the sales pipeline look like for 2009 and beyond? 
It continues to look very good indeed. Our customers, especially 
those in our key geographies of the Middle East and North Africa, 
are making long-term decisions based on relatively low long-range 
forecasts for oil prices. So far in 2009 we have secured contract 
awards of around US$2.8 billion* (see page 32).
Looking at the medium-term, where and how do you expect 
Petrofac to grow? 
For the last five years, we have achieved very healthy growth in 
revenue in excess of 35% per annum and I believe we can maintain 
good growth over the medium-term, considering the strength of 
our backlog and the visibility this gives to our earnings.
We will retain our focus on the Middle East and Africa, the 
Commonwealth of Independent States, the UK Continental Shelf 
(UKCS) and the Asia Pacific region. These are areas where we have 
a wealth of established relationships and a proven track record. 
We will continue to grow organically as well as through selective 
acquisitions that add depth and breadth to our capability.
Petrofac’s Group Chief Executive, Ayman Asfari, comments on 
the progress made by the Company during 2008 and its plans 
for the future.
Interview with the Group Chief Executive
* Subsequent to the approval of the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts by the 
Directors on 6 March 2009, the group announced a further lump-sum EPC 
award for the El Merk project in Algeria, with a contract value of US$2.2 billion. 
This takes the total of the group’s new contract awards in 2009 to US$5.0 billion.
15
Petrofac Annual report 
and accounts 2008
Interview with the  
Group Chief Executive What is the rationale behind the recent restructuring?
The new organisational structure that was implemented on 
1 January 2009 will be the basis for growth in the medium-term. 
A key driver for our current success has been our differentiated 
offering in the marketplace and it is important that we build on this 
model by promoting collaboration and co-operation between our 
various business units.
Following extensive debate among the executive team and senior 
management throughout 2008, it became clear that we needed to 
evolve our structure in order to improve integration and create a 
broader platform for growth. The new structure is outlined in detail 
on pages 18 and 19.
How would you summarise the year and the outlook?
Overall, 2008 was an excellent year for Petrofac. Our backlog, 
continued geographic focus, new structure and strong bidding 
pipeline combined with the commitment and dedication of our 
people around the world are the foundations for what I believe 
will be a very successful future.
Ayman Asfari
Group Chief Executive
In what way will the strategy develop over the short to 
medium-term? 
Our strategy is clear and unchanged. We will maintain our focus on 
oil & gas while also broadening our capability into areas such as 
offshore engineering and liquefied natural gas as well as expanding 
our geographic footprint into markets including Saudi Arabia and 
West Africa.
This strategy is delivering tremendous opportunities for organic 
growth, however, at the same time, we will continue to look for 
acquisitions that fit with our strategic objectives. Caltec and Eclipse 
came into the group in 2008 and I am pleased to say that both are 
adding valuable depth to the services we provide to our customers 
and have improved our capability to deliver projects through the 
Production Solutions business unit using a gain-share model.
Partnership will also remain a key element in the strategy. The year 
saw us form joint ventures in Indonesia with IKPT and in Abu Dhabi 
with Mubadala Petroleum Services Company. 
Are you making progress on providing more integrated 
capabilities to projects?
Many customers are keen to access a wider range of our services 
on specific projects and we have continued to work hard to 
integrate our capabilities more closely.
There are numerous examples of our three divisions working 
together to deliver benefits to customers. For example, at the 
Chergui gas plant in Tunisia we are not only co-investing, thereby 
sharing the risk and aligning ourselves with our customer’s 
interests, but we have also provided engineering, design, 
procurement and build expertise and are currently supporting the 
ongoing operations. 
Through Production Solutions, a new business unit created by our 
recent restructuring, we are now extending the group’s offering  
by packaging our services and delivering them to customers  
on a quasi-equity or gain-share basis, where our returns are 
directly related to the value added to the customer through 
enhanced production.
Interview with the Group Chief 
Executive continued
16
Petrofac Annual report 
and accounts 2008 Business review
1.
 Northern Producer, Don field
2.
   Ebla, Syria 
3., 4.
 Chergui, Tunisia
1
4
3
2
17
Petrofac Annual report 
and accounts 2008
Interview with the  
Group Chief Executive
