 Petrofac, at a glance
Our vision
To be the world’s most admired 
oilfield service company. 
Who we are
For more than three decades Petrofac has been serving the 
international oil and gas industry. During this time, we have 
amassed a broad range of skills and capabilities which we 
deploy in order to help our customers develop and unlock 
the value of their energy assets.
Through two divisions, Engineering, Construction, Operations & 
Maintenance (ECOM) and Integrated Energy Services (IES) we 
design and build oil and gas facilities; operate, maintain and manage 
facilities, train personnel and enhance production. In addition, 
we develop and co-invest in upstream and infrastructure projects 
where we can leverage the service capabilities of our Group.
People
It’s our people that make Petrofac. We have more than 18,000 
talented men and women in Petrofac, drawn from over 
80 nationalities operating at our ofﬁces and projects across 
the world. Wherever possible, we aim to recruit locally and 
focus on developing and retaining our staff. 
Safe
Our people 
are:
Responsive
Ethical
Innovative
Quality 
and cost 
conscious
Driven to 
deliver
Our culture and values
At the heart of the work we do, our values differentiate us, 
and guide our decisions and actions.
For more information on our people see page 52.
Learn more about how our values are embedded into  
our business on page 54
Overview
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 04 Our goal
To more than double our recurring  
2010 Group earnings by 2015.
How we deliver
We help our customers develop and produce their 
hydrocarbon resources, bringing together world-class 
capabilities and delivering them locally. We are ﬂexible and 
entrepreneurial, so we promote commercial arrangements 
that are aligned with our customers’ goals. By sharing their 
objectives we can deliver even greater value.
Our plan 
Long-term growth
Our strategy for future growth is based on three key drivers: 
 geographical expansion 
 broadening our offshore engineering, procurement 
and construction (EPC) capability
 implementing our Integrated Energy Services strategy
How we are evolving for the future
We have clear ﬁnancial goals for 2015 and we are working 
hard to ensure that the Company is ﬁt to deliver on them. 
We have identiﬁed a number of initiatives as part of our 
Fit for 2015 programme that should help secure a strong, 
sustainable future for the Group.
Our business model
We deliver our services on either a stand-alone or integrated 
basis and under a range of commercial models, which are 
tailored to meet our customers’ needs.
Engineering, Construction,  
Operations & Maintenance
 Reimbursable services
 Cost plus key performance indicators (KPIs)
 Lump-sum turnkey
Integrated Energy Services
 Risk Service Contracts (RSCs)
 Production Enhancement Contracts (PECs)
 Equity Upstream Investments
Learn more on page 20
Learn more on pages 22 and 23
Learn more on pages 13 to 17
Learn more on page 19
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 05
