 Succeeding in a 
challenging market
The long-term prospects for our industry 
are excellent. 
The global appetite for energy will continue 
to grow. Large-scale investments in oil and 
gas infrastructure will be needed to meet 
this demand and offset a natural decline in 
existing production. As a result, commercially 
innovative, integrated oilﬁeld services will be 
more sought after – particularly by national 
oil companies.
We are successfully positioning Petrofac to 
prosper in this new environment. But, right 
now, the marketplace is challenging, and 
our 2013 results reﬂect the realities of the 
situation. As we have emphasised in all our 
guidance, competition has been intense, 
geopolitical uncertainties abound, and some 
customers have re-thought and re-phased 
their investments.
Even so, the Group delivered US$650 million 
in earnings, we continue to deliver 
differentiated margins and returns, our 
portfolio is becoming progressively better 
balanced, and we closed the year with our 
highest ever order backlog.
Petrofac therefore proposes a ﬁnal dividend 
of 43.80 cents per share for the year ended 
31 December 2013 (2012: 43.00 cents), which, 
if approved, will be paid to shareholders on 
23 May 2014. Further details are provided on 
page 49. 
Given our circumstances, and in accordance 
with our guidance, growth is set to be ﬂat 
to modest for 2014, but our longer-term 
prospects remain good. By expanding 
geographically, increasing our offshore 
capability, and extending our credentials in 
Integrated Energy Services (IES), we are on 
course to become the world’s most admired 
oilﬁeld service company and to secure long-
term, sustainable earnings for the Group.
Scrutinising the strategic direction
Against this background it is incumbent on the 
Board to scrutinise systematically the strategic 
direction, challenge management’s thinking, 
and reassure ourselves that Petrofac has the 
capability to deliver its strategic goals.
Throughout 2013, we paid particular attention 
to the Group’s deepwater ambitions. As part 
of our challenge processes, the Board 
thought it necessary to consult with external 
independent experts. Through detailed 
deliberations, we concluded that Petrofac has 
the right values and credentials to establish 
a differentiated top-tier position in the fastest 
growing sector of the global oil and gas 
infrastructure industry.
We also scrutinised the progress of the 
IES business. Although not all projects 
have performed in line with our original 
plans, the achievements of the past 
two years are nonetheless signiﬁcant. 
With innovative commercial models and 
a focus on operational excellence, we are 
clearly gaining traction among national oil 
companies and explorers.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013
14
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
Norman Murray
Non-executive Chairman
In a tough and 
competitive 
market, the 
Board invested 
in Petrofac’s 
future, made 
solid progress 
on our strategic 
goals, and 
delivered 
US$650 million 
in earnings.
 Setting the tone from the top
The foundation of Petrofac’s continued 
success is our distinctive culture, and the 
Board sets out to lead by example. We see it 
as our collective responsibility to live up to the 
values: safe, ethical, innovative, responsive, 
quality and cost conscious, and driven 
to deliver. 
Given the nature of our business and 
the geopolitical environment, both risk 
management and safety performance are 
key considerations. We paid particular 
attention to the three fatalities, looked 
closely into the individual circumstances 
and examined the root cause behind each 
of these tragic accidents. In addition, we 
sought consistent assurances that the safety 
of our teams, including our subcontractors, is 
never compromised. 
In addition, we scrutinised the evacuation of 
our In Salah operations in Algeria.
We are disciplined in evaluating the 
performance of the Board itself. In 2013 we 
appointed an external assessor as part of the 
evaluation process. The assessor observed 
our collective performance, the workings 
of each Committee, and my own conduct. 
We have just received the assessor’s initial 
report and will provide a full account next year.
The composition of the Board is another key 
consideration. In this regard we were delighted 
that Kathy Hogenson joined us, as a Non-
executive director. Kathy brings considerable 
sub-surface knowledge, which will help to 
inform the IES agenda. Meanwhile we were 
sorry to bid farewell to Maroun Semaan, co-
founder of Petrofac who had been with the 
business for 23 years and has made such a 
substantial contribution to the success and 
the culture of the Group as well as the quality 
of the Board debate. We were also sad that 
Andy Inglis is leaving us, but appreciate the 
way he established the IES business, and 
understand his reasons for moving on. 
Reaching a series of 
signiﬁcant decisions
I regard 2013 as a pivotal year in Petrofac’s 
development, and the decisions made by the 
Board are a reﬂection of this fact.
Given that we are now investing to grow, 
ﬁnancing is a key consideration, and carrying 
some debt becomes a strategic necessity. 
The inaugural bond issue that the Board 
sanctioned and oversaw is, to me, a sign 
of the growing maturity of the business. 
The fact that we received such a respectable 
assessment by the ratings agencies suggests 
that the market has every conﬁdence in our 
ability to deliver, and allows us to beneﬁt from 
excellent ﬁnancial terms.
One of the most signiﬁcant Board decisions 
of 2013 was to approve the commissioning 
of a new deepwater installation vessel. 
This will provide a unique combination of 
high-end capabilities and will enable Petrofac 
to build a differentiated top-tier engineering, 
procurement, construction and installation 
(EPCI) business focused on high-end 
turnkey opportunities.
As the Group moves into new geographies 
and competes for larger, more integrated 
projects, the Board has also been required 
to sanction a number of highly complex 
bids. In doing so, we assess the level 
of project management discipline and 
executive capabilities behind them, to 
satisfy ourselves that the right mix of risk 
and reward is established.
Staying close to the inner 
workings of the Group
With so much happening across the Group, 
it is important that our knowledge of Petrofac 
extends well beyond the boardroom, and 
that we have insights into the realities of the 
everyday business.
Each year, two of our Board meetings take 
place in our operational locations, and we 
make a point of experiencing our business 
ﬁrst hand. In 2013, one of these trips was 
co-located in Malaysia and Singapore, which 
allowed us to meet with our customers, 
partners and our contractors. We also entered 
a ‘hard hat’ environment to inspect the 
Cendor phase 2 ﬂoating production storage 
and ofﬂoading vessel (FPSO) conversion in the 
Pasir Gudang shipyard.
We encourage all of our Non-executive 
Directors to visit other facilities on an 
individual basis. In previous years, I took 
part in our safety conference in Dubai, our 
leadership conference and EVE (Excellence, 
Value, Energy) Awards, also in Dubai, as 
well as attending our Leadership Excellence 
Programme at the London Business School. 
By spending time directly with our employees, 
we can better understand what it is about 
Petrofac that motivates and engages them. 
This feeds directly into Board discussions 
about our HR challenges, and gives me the 
conﬁdence in our ability to recruit and retain 
sufﬁcient numbers of Petrofac employees.
Looking towards signiﬁcant, 
long-term growth potential
When considering Petrofac’s strategic 
ambitions, it is important to consider 
the Group’s record of project execution 
operational excellence, its success in 
establishing the IES business, and the 
disciplined way in which it is extending its 
offshore capabilities. A key consideration for 
the Board going forward will be to ensure 
that this distinctive, delivery-focused culture is 
not compromised. 
Succession planning, across all levels and 
areas of the business, will therefore remain 
a key consideration. Meanwhile health, 
safety, security, environmental and integrity 
assurance will always be high on our agenda 
and, given the nature and day-to-day realities 
of our business, risk and crisis management 
will remain important to the Board. 
Looking forward, our record backlog gives 
us good visibility of revenues through to 2015 
and beyond. We can also be encouraged 
by a healthy bidding pipeline and the return 
to a more measured bidding environment. 
This should deliver a performance in line 
with our guidance in the coming year, and 
position the Group for signiﬁcant growth in 
the longer term.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013
15
