 Chairman’s  
statement
2012 was another good year for Petrofac. Despite the marketplace 
remaining competitive, we continued to grow, increasing revenue by 
9% to US$6,324 million and earnings by 17% to US$632 million.
Marketplace
Despite the continuing global economic 
uncertainty, demand for energy has remained 
strong. More importantly, we expect to 
see growth in demand for energy, including 
oil and gas, over the very long term. 
Coupled with the natural decline in existing oil 
and gas production, this creates a need for 
large-scale investment in oil and gas 
infrastructure. This should ensure demand 
for our services remains strong. We also see 
strong industry demand for commercially 
innovative, integrated oilﬁeld services, 
which are helping to build long-term 
sustainable earnings for the Group.
Dividends
The Company proposes a ﬁnal dividend of 
43.00 cents per share for the year ended 
31 December 2012 (2011: 37.20 cents), 
which, if approved, will be paid to 
shareholders on 24 May 2013 provided 
they were on the register on 19 April 2013. 
Shareholders who have not elected 
(by 26 February 2013) to receive dividends 
in US dollars will receive a sterling equivalent 
of 28.40 pence per share.
Together with the interim dividend of 
21.00 cents per share (2011: 17.40 cents), 
equivalent to 13.45 pence, this gives a total 
dividend for the year of 64.00 cents per share 
(2011: 54.60 cents), an increase of 17%, 
in line with the increase in net proﬁt.
From strategy to delivery
Petrofac is in business for the long term. 
As well as having the exacting medium-term 
aim of more than doubling recurring 2010 
Group earnings by 2015
1
, we aspire to 
be the world’s most admired oilﬁeld 
service company.
While we will continue to build on our existing 
strengths, we aim to deliver on our strategy 
across three key areas: geographical 
expansion, broadening our offshore capability 
and implementing our IES strategy. We are 
expanding to new markets such as Mexico, 
where we now have four long-term contracts. 
We have made good progress with our 
offshore strategy, where we are looking to 
build a differentiated offshore business that 
will give access to top tier projects.
1
  Our Group earnings target is net proﬁt after tax 
of more than US$862 million by 2015, at least 
a doubling of 2010 recurring earnings.
Overview
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 06 We have achieved signiﬁcant milestones on 
our portfolio of Integrated Energy Services 
projects, which are building long-term 
sustainable earnings for the Group.
To be able to deliver our strategy we face 
various challenges. We particularly want 
to protect and improve our execution 
capabilities and we need to keep building 
our overall resource. The Fit for 2015 
programme, which was launched in 2012 
is designed to improve all our existing 
processes with a view to helping us work 
smarter and better. This year we continued to 
improve our capability but we still need to 
recruit a substantial number of people over 
the next ﬁve years if we are to keep growing 
the business in line with our plans. 
Notwithstanding the scale of the task, 
I am conﬁdent that we will be able to do this 
as the Group has been building its Human 
Resources capability over a number of years. 
Given the large number of people who will 
be joining our Group, it is essential that we 
continue to promote Petrofac’s long-standing 
values in order to preserve what makes the 
Group unique.
Our Board
The Governance report on pages 64 to 87 
explains what the Board did during 2012 but 
I would like to highlight two areas of Board 
focus: our risk management framework and 
capability building.
Our Board Risk Committee has continued to 
strengthen our risk management framework. 
It identiﬁed 13 areas of risk which would 
threaten the overall health of the Group 
including delivery of our strategic goals. 
We have developed a number of metrics 
for each of these areas, which we will 
monitor. We intend to build on this work in 
2013 and will continue to develop our key 
enterprise risk proﬁle. 
Following a recent period of Board change, 
our Nominations Committee has been able 
to spend more time reviewing executive 
succession planning this year. We intend to 
continue concentrating on this vital area next 
year. In addition the Board has devoted 
considerable time to reviewing our 
Human Resources strategy and has been 
much encouraged. Over the last few years 
there have been a number of initiatives 
introduced relating to retention, recruitment, 
performance management and capability 
mapping. These will be essential for delivery 
of the necessary capability.
At the start of 2012, we welcomed Marwan 
Chedid and René Médori to the Board. 
Marwan is our Chief Executive of Engineering, 
Construction, Operations & Maintenance 
and René joined as a Non-executive Director 
becoming a member of our Audit, Board 
Risk and Nominations Committees. 
These appointments complete a period 
of change over the last two years. Our broad 
mix of skills, experience and nationalities 
mean that there is little danger of ‘group 
think’. Our discussions are informed, honest 
and vigorous. Once we have agreed on a 
course of action, we all align ﬁrmly behind it. 
Setting the tone
It is essential that we promote our values if 
Petrofac is to maintain its distinctive culture. 
The Board should lead by example and 
be seen to be safe, ethical, innovative, 
responsive, quality and cost conscious, 
and driven to deliver.
In considering how the Board espouses 
Company values, two particular occasions 
this year come to mind: our annual 
safety conference and Petrofac’s EVE 
Awards ceremony:
 safety is one of our most important 
values, as beﬁts our potentially hazardous 
industry. The attendance of our Executive 
Directors at the safety conference in April 
was a clear demonstration of the emphasis 
we place on safety. Lord Cullen of 
Whitekirk, who led the 1990 public inquiry 
into the Piper Alpha oil rig disaster, was our 
keynote speaker 
 our internal recognition programme, 
the EVE Awards, stand for Excellence, 
Values and Energy and honour the 
employees who best embody our values. 
The 2012 awards presentation was held 
at our Leadership Conference in November, 
attended by our 100 top leaders. I was 
delighted to present this year’s ethical 
behaviour award. It was clear how much 
the awards, and the high proﬁle given to 
them, meant to the winners
Our people
The Board makes a point of getting out 
into the business. Meeting customers and 
employees is always a highlight of such 
visits. I continue to be struck by the 
capabilities and positive, problem-solving 
attitude of our people. They are quite 
exceptional at identifying customer needs 
and delivering the right solutions, on time 
and to budget. I would like to thank each of 
them for the sterling work they do, much 
of which is complex, arduous and carried 
out in challenging environments.
Outlook
Whilst the situation in the Middle East and 
North Africa continues to be uncertain 
and the global economic outlook remains 
challenging, Petrofac is well positioned. 
Global demand for hydrocarbons is 
expected to continue to rise and our principal 
customers, the national oil companies, 
continue to invest and furthermore welcome 
the innovative commercial solutions that we 
are able to offer plus our commitment to 
developing local capability. Whilst 2012 was 
characterised by Onshore Engineering & 
Construction customers delaying awards, 
we think the situation will improve during 
2013. In the meantime, our Integrated Energy 
Services division has many opportunities.
Our backlog gives us very good visibility of 
revenues for the coming year and we have 
a healthy bidding pipeline combined with 
an exceptional management team and a 
robust and ambitious strategy. If we retain 
our values, can-do culture and capable 
workforce, I have every conﬁdence that 
2013 will prove another successful year.
Norman Murray
Non-executive Chairman
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 07 Interview with the  
Group Chief Executive
Group Chief Executive, Ayman Asfari reﬂects on the operational and 
contract highlights of 2012 and outlines the Group’s strategic drivers 
which underpin its 2015 goals.
Overview
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 08 2012 has been another successful year 
for Petrofac. How does the Company 
continue to deliver strong results and a 
good operational performance, despite 
the challenging economy?
Our achievements are driven by our people and their passion for 
delivery. Despite the challenging macro-environment, the fundamentals 
for our sector remain positive and strong oil prices are encouraging 
hydrocarbon resource holders to invest in their assets and 
infrastructure, across the world. Our talented men and women 
are responding to these opportunities.
What are the three key things you want 
to report to shareholders this year?
I. The success of our two divisional structure
The organisational structure that we implemented at the start of last 
year is working very well and both divisions had a good ﬁrst full year of 
operations. Marwan Chedid and Andy Inglis, Chief Executives of 
ECOM and IES, respectively, have done an excellent job of 
establishing and leading their businesses. As we intended, the new 
structure is proving simpler for customers to understand, enables us 
to focus more clearly on our strategic goals and helps the business 
work more closely together to integrate our services.
II. The rapid development of IES
Building IES is one of our three strategic growth priorities. In 2012, 
the division increased earnings signiﬁcantly and secured major 
contracts in both new and existing geographies. In Mexico, for 
example, by the second half of this year, we will be operating four 
ﬁelds and will then be the second biggest producer in the country 
next to national oil company, PEMEX. The IES leadership team has 
made excellent progress in developing the technical and management 
strength of the division, providing a sound platform for further strong 
growth.
III. Continued excellence in execution capability
Operationally, we had another very good year across the Group. 
Our portfolio is in excellent shape and, most importantly, customers 
are pleased with our service.
In the light of Petrofac’s strategic 
ambition to grow its offshore 
engineering, procurement, installation 
and construction (EPIC) business, what 
is the signiﬁcance of the creation of 
Offshore Capital Projects (OCP)?
Our offshore business has historically been focused on operations, 
maintenance and integrity management, particularly in the UKCS 
such as our contract with Apache in the North Sea for the Forties and 
Beryl assets. In the past few years we have been responding to our 
customer needs and delivering large scale offshore developments in 
the UK Continental Shelf (Dons and Greater Stella Area) and in 
Malaysia (Cendor, West Desaru, Berantai and Sepat). 
So, we’ve been building our track record and we see continuing 
demand in this sector and a growing requirement from our customers 
for more effective delivery solutions. The establishment of our OCP 
service line, which is led by Yves Inbona, and is part of our ECOM 
division, gives us a greater focus on this important market. OCP has 
a good pipeline of bidding opportunities. We are aiming to build upon 
our existing track record by deepening our offshore technical 
capability and investing in selected assets to provide access to these 
markets.
What were the operational highlights of 
the year? 
There have been many operational landmarks this year, including:
 The introduction, in October 2012, of ﬁrst gas at Berantai, 
offshore Malaysia, under our Risk Services Contract with 
PETRONAS, Malaysia’s national oil company. We met a very 
challenging development schedule to achieve this from concept 
selection to ﬁrst gas in just 21 months 
 The swift establishment of our operations in Mexico. From a 
standing start, we created a fully functioning business by the end 
of the year and secured four production enhancement contracts 
in 12 months 
 Our success in delivering large-scale onshore projects at sites like 
Asab in Abu Dhabi, and at El Merk in Algeria 
 Offshore Projects & Operations maintained its focus on asset 
integrity and safety, signiﬁcantly reducing Lost Time Incidents 
compared with previous years, against an overall increase in 
man-hours worked 
 We made two small, yet strategic, capability enhancing acquisitions 
during the year, and welcomed KW Limited, a subsea specialist 
consultancy, and Oilennium Limited, an e-learning business, into our 
Engineering & Consulting Services and Training Services service 
lines respectively
 Also in the year, and in line with our IES strategy to help resource 
holders develop their assets and the capability of their workforces, 
Training Services formed a strategic partnership with PETRONAS 
and was appointed to design and build two training facilities 
in Malaysia
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 09
