 16    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Chairman’s statement
2010 has been another very successful year for Petrofac. Our track 
record for delivery, our strategic focus on areas of sustained demand, 
our increasing capabilities and scale and our strong relationships have 
again contributed to record results. Revenue increased by 19% to 
US$4,354 million and net profits rose by 58% to US$557 .8 million. 17    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
The global marketplace
These results were achieved despite 
continuing worldwide economic uncertainty. 
Our performance was assisted by a healthy 
demand for energy during the year, from both 
established and developing economies. The fact 
that many of our customers are national oil 
companies, which have continued to press on 
with capital investment, was also beneficial in 
2010. Notwithstanding, it is important to remain 
very aware of the continuing weakness in the 
world economy. The threat of tightening trade 
barriers and of escalating tensions in volatile 
regions are potential risks to economic growth.
The tragic explosion on the Deepwater Horizon 
drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico last April 
underlined the risks in our industry. The 
resulting spill from the Macondo well and its 
environmental, commercial and political impacts 
are a reminder of the challenges we face every 
day – and the constant need for vigilance. This 
event has changed perceptions of our industry 
and the way it operates, highlighting the 
importance of the relationship between oil 
companies and the contracting industry. 
Our progress in 2010
Key milestones demonstrated the value of our 
clear and consistent strategy during the year. 
Major new business awards – including a 
US$600 million gas sweetening facilities 
contract for Qatar Petroleum and two projects 
for the Kuwait Oil Company, worth a total  
of US$830 million – indicated the strength  
of our service offering.
Other contracts fulfilled long-held strategic 
ambitions. Our contract with Petrom in Romania, 
covering the Ticleni oilfield and its satellite 
fields, for example, marked the first production 
enhancement services contract for our 
Production Solutions business, which has been 
assessing such opportunities for some time. 
During the year we made important step-outs 
into new markets. We began working on 
a new contract marking our entry into Iraq  
and completed the conversion of the second 
phase of the US$3.4 billion contract for  
the South Yoloten field in Turkmenistan. 
New investments supported our strategic 
ambitions. Our alliance with Seven Energy,  
a leading Nigerian production and development 
company, gives us the opportunity to develop 
a local presence in Nigeria. Our commitment 
to extending our service offering saw us buy 
two UK businesses in renewable energy 
(alongside two other complementary 
acquisitions in the year). 
The successful demerging of our UK 
Continental Shelf assets to a new company, 
EnQuest PLC, emphasised the validity of our 
Energy Developments business’ ‘build and 
harvest’ strategy. The demerger was of 
significant commercial benefit to Petrofac 
shareholders, who at the time of demerger 
received one EnQuest share for every  
Petrofac share owned, representing 45% 
ownership of EnQuest PLC at the time of  
its initial public offering.
Supporting our customers
We have continued our policy of maintaining  
a conservative balance sheet, with strong 
cash reserves and minimal debt. We believe 
that such financial strength acts to reassure 
customers that we are here for the long-term.
Our long-term contribution to customers is 
also apparent in our fundamental commitment 
to employing as many local people on our 
projects as we can. In addition, our ability  
to provide training programmes and facilities  
help our customers to create national 
workforces, with indigenous workers  
being equipped for a lifetime’s employment, 
providing economic benefit to individuals  
and their wider communities. 
Building a sustainable business
When a company grows as fast as Petrofac 
has, it is vital that internal processes and 
systems develop accordingly. In 2010 we  
took further steps to ensure that our business 
maintains the efficiency of its core systems.
To enable Petrofac to continue to be led and 
staffed by able and experienced men and 
women, we strengthened our recruitment, 
development and succession planning 
processes across the business.
Working in an exacting industry, in challenging 
conditions and geographies on increasingly 
complex projects, taking risk is an integral  
part of what we do. To manage such risk 
effectively, in 2010, Petrofac’s Board Risk 
Committee again deepened its oversight role 
while the wider business further embedded  
its risk management procedures and systems.
Dividends
The Company proposes a final dividend of 
30.00 cents per ordinary share for the year 
ended 31 December 2010 (2009: 25.10 cents), 
which, if approved, will be paid on 20 May 
2011 to eligible shareholders on the register  
at 26 April 2011. Shareholders who have not 
elected (before 4 March 2011) to receive 
dividends in US Dollars will receive a Sterling 
equivalent of 18.42 pence per ordinary share. 
Together with the interim dividend of 13.80 
cents (2009: 10.70 cents), equivalent to 8.91 
pence, this gives a total dividend for the year  
of 43.80 cents per ordinary share (2009: 35.80 
cents), an increase of 22.3%.
Our Board
Our customers and employees come from 
numerous geographies and cultures: it is 
essential that our Board reflects that diversity. 
In 2010, two new non-executive directors, 
Thomas Thune Andersen and Stefano Cao, 
brought valuable fresh experience and ideas to 
our Board. Having directors with a broad range 
of experiences and perspectives enables us to 
learn from each other and grow. This year, we 
complemented that learning with an external 
Board evaluation. One of the outcomes of this 
useful exercise was a commitment to a greater 
focus on strategy; consequently, the time 
devoted to strategic discussion has doubled.
The necessary reinvigoration of the Board has 
continued in 2011, with the addition of Andy 
Inglis, recently appointed Chief Executive of 
Energy Developments and Production 
Solutions and a former BP board director. 
Roxanne Decyk, whose long executive career 
included 11 years with The Royal Dutch Shell 
Group, has recently joined the Board as  
a non-executive director. Norman Murray, 
chairman of Cairn Energy PLC and co-founder 
and former chairman of Morgan Grenfell 
Private Equity Limited has also joined our 
Board and, subject to shareholder approval, 
will succeed me as Chairman following the 
conclusion of the AGM on 13 May. In line  
with Petrofac’s rotation policy, I am stepping 
down after six fascinating and highly enjoyable  
years. I have no doubt that Andy, Norman and 
Roxanne will each make a significant individual 
contribution to the Board and I wish them well.
In another change, Kjell Almskog will also retire 
from the Petrofac Board this year. I would like 
to thank Kjell for his significant contribution 
during his six years on our Board, most 
recently as Senior Independent Director.
Our people
In my time with Petrofac the business has 
changed and grown enormously. What has not 
changed has been the commitment, diligence 
and ownership displayed by our men and 
women. Such attributes may be due to the fact 
that, with more than 30% of employees being 
shareholders or participants in share schemes, 
many do literally ‘own’ the business. I would 
like to pay heartfelt tribute to our people and to 
the professional way they deliver high quality 
solutions to our customers in some of the most 
challenging locations in the world. They have 
created an absolutely exceptional firm.
Outlook
2010 has been an exceptional year for us,  
with a record intake of new orders, which gives 
us outstanding revenue visibility and brings 
exciting opportunities for us to develop our 
capability and to deliver it into new markets.
With this strong financial underpinning, our 
differentiated and competitive offering and  
our proven excellence in project execution,  
we are confident that we will continue to  
deliver superior value for our customers and 
sector-leading returns for our shareholders.
I thank our shareholders, customers and 
suppliers for their support in 2010 and for my 
entire time as Chairman. I am confident that 
Petrofac will continue to deliver outstanding 
performance in the years ahead.
Rodney Chase
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
Business review
