 18    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Petrofac’s Group Chief Executive, Ayman Asfari,  
comments on the progress made by the Company  
during 2010 and its plans for the future.
Interview with the Group Chief Executive 19    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
Petrofac has delivered another 
exceptional set of results.  
Why was 2010 such a good year?
Many factors played a part: significant 
contract wins, moves into new geographies 
and the successful completion of a number  
of projects. Fundamentally, however, we 
delivered record results once again because 
we remained focused on our customers,  
on attention to detail and on excellence in 
delivery and execution.
What were the highlights?
The year’s highlights, and they occurred  
right across the Petrofac group, were all 
characterised by us breaking new ground.
We reaped the first rewards of our ‘build  
and harvest’ strategy with the demerging  
of our UK Continental Shelf (UKCS) assets  
to EnQuest PLC where they were combined 
with the UKCS assets of Lundin Petroleum 
AB in a separate listed entity. This crystallised 
a significant gain for Petrofac, demonstrated 
the value of our investment model and also 
enabled Petrofac shareholders to participate 
as shareholders in a production and 
development company which has since  
gone on to create even more value as a  
public company.
Commencing work on the second phase  
of the South Yoloten gas processing plant 
construction project in Turkmenistan,  
a new and important market for Petrofac,  
was another milestone. The US$3.4 billion 
engineering, procurement and commissioning 
project is the largest lump-sum turnkey 
contract that we have ever signed. We are 
very pleased to be working with Turkmengas, 
the state-owned national gas company, on 
this project and our initial planning and set-up 
studies have given us confidence that we can 
maintain our high standards and first class 
project delivery for this world-scale project 
which is due to be completed in 2013. 
Our production enhancement services 
contract for the Ticleni oilfield in Romania 
was another breakthrough. The 15-year 
contract, which we estimate will be worth 
US$270 million in the first five years, involves 
us taking full operational responsibility  
for this mature field on behalf of Petrom, 
Romania’s largest oil & gas group. It marks 
both our first production enhancement 
services contract, something we had been 
targeting for some time, and our first project 
in Romania.
Another advance came with our 
appointment by Total to develop the  
Laggan Tormore gas processing plant  
on the Shetland Islands. The £500 million  
award is our first predominantly lump-sum 
engineering, procurement and construction 
contract in the UK, and is a significant award 
for our Offshore Engineering & Operations 
business which will also draw on the  
support of our established Engineering & 
Construction business to deliver the project.
Another great moment was the inauguration 
of Syria’s National Training Centre, the 
country’s first ever oil & gas training facility, 
which we designed, refurbished and 
equipped. The inauguration event coincided 
with our annual investor trip and around  
50 investors and financial analysts were 
present when the Syrian Prime Minister,  
His Excellency Mohammad Naji Ottri, 
inaugurated the facility. Our gift of the centre 
to the Syrian Government, in support of  
its drive to develop more skilled oil & gas 
personnel, was the most significant donation 
we have ever made and emphasised our 
commitment to the communities in which  
we work.
As well as these exciting new projects and 
awards we kept our focus on execution.  
We successfully completed the Ebla gas 
plant in Syria for PetroCanada, two months 
ahead of schedule and have substantially 
completed: the Jihar gas plant in Syria  
for the Hayan Petroleum Company, the 
Harweel cluster development for Petroleum 
Development Oman, the Mina Al-Ahmadi 
refinery pipelines project for Kuwait Oil 
Company and the In Salah Gas compression 
project for Sonatrach, BP and Statoil in Algeria.
Petrofac is changing as it grows.  
In 2010, for example, you extended 
your service offering and moved into 
new countries. What is your growth 
strategy?
Petrofac is still a focused oil & gas business 
operating mainly in the upstream sector.  
We are changing, but in an evolutionary way. 
Our growth strategy has two main elements: 
first, it will be built on deepening our 
competencies in order to become more 
active across the entire value chain. We will 
also continue to pursue opportunities in new 
countries, where we see potential for growth 
and development. 
How do you intend to operate across 
the ‘entire value chain’?
We want to deepen and extend our capability 
so that we can operate much more widely 
across the life cycle of an asset, from concept 
definition and drilling management to 
delivering a turnkey development. 
That process has been under way for some 
time. Our engineering and construction roots 
are now complemented by other strengths, 
such as our strong operations management, 
training and consulting businesses. In 2010, 
our appointment by the Malaysian national oil 
company, PETRONAS to develop the SEPAT 
offshore early production system and our 
move into the field development programme 
for the second phase of the Cendor project, 
also in Malaysia, significantly expanded our 
offshore engineering activity. 
Interview with the Group Chief Executive
Business review 20    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
We believe we can create additional  
value for our customers by integrating 
services and delivering them through a 
different, service-led approach. This will  
give customers the full capability they need  
while enabling them to retain full ownership  
of their resources. 
Our contract to lead the development of the 
Berantai field, which we signed just after the 
year-end, shows the potential for this type  
of integrated service contract and how it can 
generate additional value for both customers 
and for us. We will develop and operate the 
Berantai field offshore Malaysia, again for 
PETRONAS, for seven years after the first 
production of gas. Alongside two local 
partners, we will be responsible for providing 
and integrating a full range of services –  
from design and construction to subsurface 
technical services and operations.
The innovative commercial framework, 
whereby PETRONAS retains full ownership 
of its resources while our returns are linked  
to the delivery of the project, illustrates our 
commercial flexibility and commitment to 
creating true alignment with the objectives  
of resource holders.
Interview with the Group Chief Executive 
continued
How swiftly do you intend to expand 
geographically?
Building foundations in new markets, as we 
did in Turkmenistan, Nigeria and Iraq in 2010, 
is a major focus. To ensure that we get  
it absolutely right for our customers and 
shareholders, we are expanding in a very 
measured way geographically; aiming to  
add a selected number of markets each year. 
In 2010, you made a number  
of relatively small acquisitions.  
Are you actively looking for further 
acquisitions?
We are interested in making acquisitions,  
but only those that fulfil a strong strategic 
rationale or offer real synergies as we grow. 
Our new energy businesses, CO2DeepStore 
Limited, a leading developer of CO2 storage 
projects, and TNEI Services Limited, a 
renewable energy specialist, for instance, 
offer a platform for potential future growth  
in the emerging low carbon world.
As you evolve, how will you maintain 
the core qualities that have made 
Petrofac successful?
In the coming years we expect to recruit many 
thousands more staff. As our organisation 
expands, retaining our unique culture and 
being true to our values will be essential.
This culture or ‘DNA’ encompasses important 
things like taking ownership of problems, 
keeping a relentless focus on project  21    Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010
“ There is no doubt that in the last 30 years  
Petrofac has achieved a great deal but, if we stay 
focused on execution and delivery, as I am sure  
we will, we have a fantastic journey ahead.”
execution, being safe and responsive to  
our customers, and maintaining a focus on 
close management of costs. If we get these 
fundamental aspects of our business right 
then we have a strong foundation from which 
to grow.
While we are developing new capabilities  
and executing our differentiated business 
model, particularly in the areas of offshore 
engineering and providing integrated services 
for resource holders, we remain as committed 
to the core activities that have made us 
successful so far. We will go on growing  
our lump-sum turnkey and operations 
management activities in both existing  
and new markets.
You have invested in strengthening 
your internal systems this year with, 
for example, the first roll-out of 
Petrofac’s group-wide enterprise 
resource planning (ERP) system  
and new HR processes. Why was 
this necessary?
Petrofac has grown very fast. Within six years 
of our initial public offering, we have achieved 
more than a seven-fold increase in market 
capitalisation and have more than doubled 
our employee headcount. 
So, our systems must be robust. They must 
allow Petrofac to be consistent and scalable, 
support strong governance and effective risk 
management, and help us to ensure we have 
the right people, with the right skills, both now 
and in the future. 
The strengthening of our corporate functions 
and systems, so they serve as a stronger 
resource for the business, has been a 
continuing priority for a number of years. 
Throughout this process, we have identified 
what is already working well and have acted 
to enhance it and spread best practice 
throughout the organisation. Central to this 
development is the implementation of our 
new ERP system ‘TEMPO’ (Technology to 
EMpower the Petrofac Organisation), but  
this was not simply imposed on the business, 
instead we chose the very best processes 
from those already operating in the business 
and tailored the system around them. We  
are determined that our corporate functions 
should support our entrepreneurial business 
style, not just be a bureaucratic overlay to it.
Petrofac attracted major oil & gas 
executives to its Board this year,  
in both executive and non-executive 
roles (see page 70 for details). 
What do they bring to the Company?
They bring many things, not least a deep 
knowledge of the industry and a thorough 
understanding of customer needs, having 
come from international oil companies. 
More importantly, they bring experience of 
how some of the world’s most successful 
companies think and work. I am sure that 
they will provide invaluable insights that will 
help us as we continue to develop our own 
organisation.
Our new directors are building on strong 
foundations. I would like to thank our 
outgoing Chairman, Rodney Chase, who  
has led our Board very effectively for six  
years and in this time has made a significant 
contribution to our success. Also retiring from 
our Board at the AGM is Senior Independent 
Director, Kjell Almskog. Kjell has served on 
our Board for six years and I thank him for  
his valued contribution during this time. 
Why are major industry figures 
attracted to Petrofac?
I think we are becoming an increasingly 
attractive employer for staff at all levels. 
People see us as doing things differently  
to others in the industry. They are joining us 
because they want to be part of our success 
and to contribute to our future growth.
What do you believe has 
characterised Petrofac’s success  
to date?
Our success is rooted in our people and our 
culture. We have a great team of exceptional 
individuals who are very motivated and 
driven. They personify the Petrofac culture 
and values. 
The high level of employee share ownership 
also helps explain why we are different –  
and our success. Almost one in three of  
our people participate in one or more of  
our share schemes and I believe that this 
creates a huge degree of alignment between 
employees, the Company and our external 
shareholders: they all share one aspiration  
of building long-term sustainable value. 
Although we have continued to make great 
progress, we remain vigilant to complacency, 
and are focused on continually developing  
our people and evolving our business to  
stay at pace with the changing needs of  
our customers. 
2011 marks the 30th anniversary of 
the foundation of Petrofac and the 
20th anniversary of you joining the 
Company. Can Petrofac remain 
successful over the long-term?
Absolutely! The 2010 Annual Report theme 
– ‘We’ve come a long way but the journey is 
just beginning’ – is absolutely right. Before we 
look forward, I would like to briefly look back 
and thank everyone who contributed to our 
journey over the last three decades, especially 
Ralph Martin, who passed away in February 
this year. As one of Petrofac’s original 
founders Ralph was an inspiration to everyone 
that knew and worked with him. We all miss 
him a great deal. 
There is no doubt that in the last 30 years 
Petrofac has achieved a great deal but, if we 
stay focused on execution and delivery, as I 
am sure we will, we have a fantastic journey 
ahead. In the coming years, I am confident 
that we will continue to create value for  
our shareholders and maintain our strong 
growth trajectory. I am looking forward to 
participating in this next stage of our journey.
Ayman Asfari
Group Chief Executive
Interview with the Group Chief Executive
Business review
