 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013
16
Strategic report
Group Chief Executive’s 
Strategic review
Ayman Asfari 
Group Chief Executive 2013 was a challenging but ultimately 
successful year for Petrofac.
We took signiﬁcant steps towards our 
strategic goals. We grew our capability. 
We also lived up to our emphasis on 
operational excellence. And, having 
signed some large and prestigious 
contracts, we closed the year with our 
highest ever order backlog.
Overall we delivered modest growth in earnings 
in the year reﬂecting the re-phasing of a small 
number of large projects. These external 
factors meant that our ﬁnancial results fell short 
of our initial expectations. But, the progress we 
have made on the strategic, operational and 
business development fronts allows us to face 
2014 with a sense of optimism. 
We are establishing an ever stronger and 
more diversiﬁed position in the oilﬁeld services 
sector. By aligning our own interests with our 
customers, we are set to beneﬁt from the 
need for increased capability to meet the ever 
increasing global demand for energy. And I am 
conﬁdent we remain well positioned to deliver 
the type of differentiated margins and returns 
our shareholders have come to expect. 
From strategy to delivery
The theme of our annual report continues to 
be From Strategy to Delivery and the clear 
progress towards our strategic goals should 
be emphasised.
Across all of our activities, our business 
model and our differentiation is based on 
living our values, a combination of deep and 
widening capabilities, local delivery, effective 
risk management, innovative commercial 
approaches, and a relentless focus on 
operational excellence.
Our strategic evolution is marked out by 
our three main phases of growth, each of 
which is supported by our core technical and 
operational skills:
1. Building and sustaining a world-class, 
onshore engineering, procurement and 
construction (EPC) business – our traditional 
capability that continued to perform strongly 
in 2013.
2. Delivering an Integrated Energy Services 
(IES) business, making use of innovative 
commercial models which respond to 
customer needs – a capability that is now well-
established and gained further traction in 2013.
3. Growing and enhancing our offshore EPC 
capability, drawing on our existing project 
management and offshore strengths – an 
emerging capability that builds on our existing 
strengths, to which we gave a strategic 
commitment in 2013.
As we progress through these phases of 
growth, we are achieving a more balanced 
geographic and business model mix. We are 
also working across the entire life cycle of our 
customers’ assets – from early development 
right through to decommissioning.
Fundamental to our success is Petrofac’s 
distinctive, delivery-focused culture, and 
the six values that sustain it: safe, ethical, 
innovative, responsive, quality and cost 
conscious, and driven to deliver. 
Managing risk through 
operational excellence
As Petrofac pursues its strategic objectives 
then, by deﬁnition, the Company assumes 
more risk. 
Indeed, the main way we create value is to 
assume project risk on behalf of customers. 
This could be in the form of a reimbursable 
contract with performance-linked KPIs, 
traditional lump-sum EPC contract, Duty 
Holder operational contract, or a fully 
integrated solution. In each case, we de-risk 
the project and align our respective interests. 
In this way, we can secure improved margins, 
and our customers can beneﬁt from certainty 
of delivery.
The most effective way of managing these 
risks is a relentless focus on operational 
excellence. As well as reducing uncertainties, 
this enables us to deliver a sector-
leading performance.
Key to our operational excellence is bidding 
discipline. By pre-investing in our bids, we get 
better understanding of project complexity 
and we establish more reliability on cost. 
We can then be commercially astute in 
negotiating terms, and we can reject any 
prospects in which the risks are neither 
manageable nor commensurate with an 
acceptable level of shareholder return. 
There is no doubt that our 2013 performance 
was impacted by the highly competitive 
bidding environment we experienced in 2011 
and 2012. Whilst some of our competitors 
chose to sacriﬁce their margins, we maintained 
our discipline throughout. The return to today’s 
more sustainable bidding behaviour suggests 
that we were entirely right to do so.
It is a source of great pride that 2013 saw us 
successfully deliver four ‘mega’ projects with 
a gross value of approximately US$10 billion. 
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013
17
It is a source 
of great pride 
that 2013 saw 
us successfully 
deliver four 
‘mega’ projects 
with a gross 
value of 
approximately 
US$10 billion.
1. FPSO Berantai, offshore Malaysia
2.  International graduates in a session 
at the Petrofac Academy
 1
2 Overall the portfolio is in very strong shape; 
however it is clear that on an isolated number 
of projects our execution could have been 
stronger. This highlights the importance of 
our continued drive for excellence across the 
entire portfolio. 
Building and retaining scarce skills 
and local capabilities
Delivering on our strategy requires us 
to attract and retain many more people 
with a more diversiﬁed range of expertise 
– without diluting our distinctive, delivery-
focused culture.
During the year we implemented a range of 
related initiatives. 
For example, this year’s graduate intake 
will have their professional development 
supported and accelerated by the newly 
established Petrofac Academy. A new 
performance management process was also 
launched, along with improvements to our 
Leadership Excellence programme and our 
Group-wide recruitment systems.
Another important source of differentiation is 
our focus on local delivery. Wherever possible, 
we employ local people, work with local 
partners, and establish a local supply chain. 
As demonstrated in this report, all of our 
projects feature high levels of local content – 
which facilitates our entry into new markets, 
cements long-term customer relationships 
and reduces our costs.
Meanwhile the launch of our new Code of 
Conduct and a renewed focus on internal 
communications helped to reinforce our 
six values. 
Having said this, I regret to report that 
we did experience a deterioration in our 
safety record in 2013, tragically including 
two fatalities in Turkmenistan and one in 
Algeria. Our immediate counter-measures 
and the related plans for 2014 are evidence 
of our on-going commitment to safety – 
which, of course, is our ﬁrst and our most 
important value, and a key component of 
operational excellence.
Delivering in ECOM and increasing 
traction in IES
Our traditional onshore EPC business 
performed well. The delivery of four multi-
billion dollar projects in 2013 proves our 
ability to execute large, complex contracts. 
Having visited the completed facilities and 
spoken to our customers, I know how satisﬁed 
they are.
Based on projects awarded during 2013 
and subsequently, the quality of the bidding 
pipeline, and our historical win rate, we 
are conﬁdent of growing our backlog and 
continuing to deliver sector-leading margins 
in 2014.
Meanwhile, IES is now a business of real 
scale, which has achieved a three-fold 
increase in net proﬁt in just three years. 
Now we have achieved scale in IES, we will 
also focus on consolidating our position 
on our existing assets. The performance of 
our existing Mexican operations, and the 
establishment of new operations in Pánuco 
and Arenque were deﬁnite highlights – as was 
delivery of ﬁrst gas at the Berantai project in 
Malaysia. We will continue to look to improve 
our execution and return on the IES portfolio. 
For example, a priority during 2014 will be 
to create greater value on the Ticleni project 
where we are evaluating further seismic tests.
Having led IES for the past three years, Andy 
Inglis has decided to leave us in order to return 
to the USA, and we wish him well for the 
future. I have enjoyed working closely with him 
and would like to thank him for his contribution 
to building the IES business. I now look 
forward to working with Rob Jewkes, who has 
been appointed Chief Operating Ofﬁcer of IES 
and the rest of the team. 
Fulﬁlling our offshore ambitions
As all of the industry analysis conﬁrms, 
offshore production is set to play an increasing 
role in the oil and gas market, and the trend is 
to deeper water.
Petrofac is well positioned to pursue the 
related opportunities. With more than 20 
years’ offshore experience, we have already 
delivered several billion dollars of offshore 
projects. And, with recent acquisitions 
(such as the offshore engineering and 
consulting business RNZ Integrated, and the 
subsea pipeline consulting and engineering 
services business KW Limited) and the 
recruitment of several key senior leaders, 
we have progressively expanded our 
offshore capabilities. 
1.  Laggan-Tormore gas plant, 
Shetland Islands, UK
2.  Training at NASA’s Johnson Space 
Center in Houston, USA
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013
18
Strategic report
Group Chief Executive’s  
Strategic review continued
1
2
With our 
largest ever 
order backlog, 
investment 
programme, 
and signiﬁcant 
growth 
potential, we 
enter 2014 in 
a strong 
position.
 Building on our core skills and capabilities, 
we are now growing a differentiated top-tier 
offshore EPCI business focused on high-
end turnkey opportunities. As in our onshore 
EPC business, we intend to manage a select 
portfolio of large contracts, with a rigorous 
focus on risk management. Gratifyingly, 
we already have the conﬁdence of our 
customers – as demonstrated by the Lakach 
development, our ﬁrst deepwater contract win 
in Mexico, and successful prequaliﬁcation for 
several major EPCI contracts including the 
Bonga Southwest-Aparo project in Nigeria. 
Of course, to build a business of scale in 
the deepwater EPCI market, we need an 
enabler. We are investing therefore in our own 
high-end, multi-purpose installation vessel, 
the Petrofac JSD 6000, and in the last few 
months have awarded contracts for all of its 
key components. 
This uniquely conﬁgured vessel, with its 
best-in-class capabilities, will give us access 
to high-end projects, allow us to de-risk their 
delivery, and also help us to attract the very 
best talent. It is scheduled to be available for 
construction and installation activities from 
early 2017 . Helped along by this capability, we 
are looking to build an offshore EPCI business 
delivering revenues in the order of US$2 billion 
by 2020 at strong margins.
Our people
None of this would be possible without 
our people. Without doubt our employees 
are our best asset, and, underpinned by 
our unique culture, they ensure we deliver 
on our commitments to our customers. 
Often they are working on complex projects in 
demanding environments. I would like to thank 
each and every one of them for their efforts in 
2013 and I look forward to working with them 
during what I am conﬁdent will be an exciting 
2014 and beyond. 
The end of 2013 saw Maroun Semaan, 
co-founder of Petrofac, retire from the 
Company and step down from the Board. 
I would like to thank Maroun for all he has 
done for Petrofac. He leaves a strong and 
experienced management team clearly 
focused on long-term sustainable growth, 
and a considerable legacy on which we 
continue to build. 
Maintaining our capital discipline
As the Group assumes more risk and invests 
in its capability, our capital intensity also 
increases – as evidenced by 2013’s inaugural 
bond issue.
Capital discipline will therefore be a key theme 
for 2014 and beyond. 
Given the on-going investments in IES and our 
offshore business, we do expect our return 
on capital employed to decrease somewhat. 
Even so we anticipate that, over our ﬁve 
year planning cycle, we will deliver returns 
of signiﬁcantly more than 20%.
As we complete our offshore investment 
programme, and IES becomes cash 
generative, we also expect the Group as a 
whole to return to free cash ﬂow generation.
Outlook for 2014 and beyond 
With our largest ever order backlog, 
investment programme, and signiﬁcant growth 
potential, we enter 2014 in a strong position.
Overall, we expect to deliver ﬂat to modest 
growth in earnings in 2014 and to return to 
strong earnings growth in 2015.
Despite the cost pressures that some 
customers are facing, I am conﬁdent Petrofac 
will continue to capture value through a 
business model that de-risks project execution 
and aligns our interests with those of our 
clients. Over the longer term, there will be 
increased demand for energy fuelled by a 
growing global appetite for hydrocarbons, 
increased capital spending by resource 
holders, and a widening capability gap within 
our sector. Petrofac and our shareholders 
will be well positioned to beneﬁt from 
these conditions.
1.  The Galkynysh gas treatment plant, 
Turkmenistan
2. Santuario oil ﬁelds, Mexico
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013
19
2
1
