 12
Petrofac Annual report 
and accounts 2008 Business review
Market overview
2008 was a year of extraordinary turbulence and uncertainty in the 
global economy. Fuelled by the crisis in banking and a marked fall 
in confidence, the downturn is impacting businesses in most 
sectors worldwide. 
The environment in our industry has, so far, remained broadly 
positive. Despite extreme volatility in the price of oil, which at one 
point during the year rose to US$147 per barrel before falling away 
to less than US$40 in December, continuing supplies of 
reasonably-priced energy will remain fundamental to world 
economic growth for many years to come.
Our progress
In the past year, we experienced strong demand for our services. 
Our Company is in a strong position financially with very little debt, 
substantial cash balances and a healthy order book that continues 
to position us very well for the future.
Petrofac is developing as a public company and now has the 
organisational capability, the leadership talent and an expanded 
engineering skills base to compete at the highest level. We have 
now joined an exclusive list of companies capable of participating 
in the largest and most challenging projects in our sector  
and executing them with a high degree of technical and  
commercial success.
As you will read elsewhere in this Report, our three divisions – 
Engineering & Construction, Operations Services and Energy 
Developments – have all reported significant progress. 
This has been achieved through our proven technical capability, 
entrepreneurial business attitude and a focus on geographic 
regions where there are programmes of work in place that are not 
as susceptible to factors affecting the global economic environment 
and the cost of production is competitive. Driving our continued 
competitive advantage is a group-wide commitment to our people, 
to the environment and, crucially, to safety above all other 
considerations. 
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 17.90 cents per 
ordinary share, equivalent to 12.57 pence per ordinary share which, 
if approved, will be paid on 22 May 2009 to eligible shareholders on 
the register at 24 April 2009. Given the strong cash generation of 
the group, the Board has taken the decision to increase the 
percentage of earnings to be distributed by way of dividend to 
approximately 35% of full-year post-tax profits (previously 30%), 
which will continue to be paid approximately one-third as an interim 
dividend and two-thirds as a final dividend. Together with the 
interim dividend of 7.50 cents, equivalent to 4.09 pence, this gives 
a total dividend for the year of 25.40 cents per ordinary share, an 
increase of 55% over 2007.
Corporate governance and corporate social responsibility
The Board has continued to focus on corporate governance issues, 
ensuring that our processes are comparable to those recognised 
as best practice. We have also worked hard during the year to meet 
our responsibilities to the wider stakeholder community. 
Some of the countries in which we operate are facing deep-seated 
challenges and we are committed to being a positive force 
wherever possible. In practical terms, this is frequently expressed 
through an increasing range of community support initiatives where 
our focus is primarily on education and training. We believe it is 
extremely important that we play a part in the advancement of the 
people and communities who interact with Petrofac. In many 
locations, young people do not have the opportunity to learn and 
to contribute to the development of their countries. From building 
schools to funding scholarships, Petrofac programmes are helping 
young people fulfil their potential.
Our people
Attracting, retaining and developing our people is both an enduring 
strength and an ongoing challenge. During the year, our numbers 
rose from around 9,800
1
 to around 11,100 as we continued to 
invest in the technical skills as well as the leadership talent that will 
maintain our market-leading position.
We operate in difficult and challenging environments and I extend 
the Board’s thanks to all of our employees who worked so tirelessly 
throughout 2008 to execute our projects with great skill and 
intelligence and with an unyielding focus on safety at all times.
The Board
This has been a year of stability for your Board. No changes have 
been made to its composition since the 2007 Annual General 
Meeting (held on 16 May 2008).
Outlook
There is no doubting the severity of the global recession. I am 
confident, however, that our group is well placed to record good 
performance in 2009. Our year-end backlog and recent contract 
awards provide a sound operational and financial basis, and the 
prospects for the future are excellent. 
In order to turn those prospects into performance, we will continue 
to work closely with customers, shareholders, partners and 
suppliers. I thank all of these stakeholders for their support in the 
past and look forward to sharing our success with them in 2009 
and beyond.
Rodney Chase
Chairman
2008 was another outstanding year for Petrofac, as we again delivered 
record revenue and profits. Not only are we maintaining the trend for 
growth, but we are now winning business and executing projects of 
significant scale. Revenue grew by 36% to US$3,330 million during 
the year and net profits increased by 40% to US$265.0 million.
Chairman’s statement
1
 Employee numbers include the group’s share of joint venture employees.
13
Petrofac Annual report 
and accounts 2008 Chairman’s statement
