 Group Chief Executive’s Strategic review
2014 was a tough year for Petrofac and the oil and gas industry as a whole.
We ﬁnished the year with a record backlog which gives us very 
good visibility of future revenues. Nonetheless, our 2014 ﬁnancial 
performance fell short of everyone’s initial expectations, and our 
reputation for operational excellence has been dented. We also 
recognise that some investors are deeply concerned by our 
sector’s exposure to lower oil prices.
In 2015 and beyond, we aim to set the record straight by delivering 
to the highest standards on all our projects, coping with the 
challenges of a lower price environment, and positioning the 
Group to beneﬁt from the projected long-term growth in global 
energy demand.
Before I talk about prospects for the future, I would like to reﬂect 
candidly on our 2014 performance, and the lessons learned.
Reﬂecting on the challenges of 2014 
Across the majority of our operations, projects and assets, 2014 
was a good year for Petrofac. From a business development 
perspective it was our best year ever; enabling us to build up a 
record backlog. However, as we fell short on the delivery of some 
of our operational objectives, our record for excellence in project 
execution was compromised. 
We have always assured all our stakeholders that, as we enter 
new geographies and take on new disciplines, we are more than 
capable of understanding and mitigating the associated risks. 
However as the year unfolded, and for three projects in particular, 
it became clear that our performance was falling short of the high 
standards we expect of ourselves. 
On the Greater Stella Area project, the original project scope 
lacked deﬁnition when we entered into the project and many 
changes in scope ensued. The interfaces between Ithaca  
(as operator), Integrated Energy Services (IES) (as partner) and 
Offshore Projects & Operations (OPO) (as contractor) were not 
well-deﬁned, and we did not coordinate ourselves internally,  
or manage our fabrication subcontractors effectively to ensure  
our respective interests were fully aligned. 
On the Laggan-Tormore project, we failed to stress-test 
adequately our assessment of the risks of operating in a wholly 
new geography for the Onshore Engineering & Construction (OEC) 
business. Our ability to deliver on schedule was further impacted 
directly by challenging weather conditions affecting the Shetland 
Islands. Furthermore our construction contractors failed to deliver 
their agreed scope, and, though we had a lack of experience  
in managing direct construction, we had little choice but to take 
on more direct construction activity on a day rate basis. 
The third project is the Ticleni Production Enhancement 
Contract in Romania. Here, despite effective project execution 
enabling us to increase production in 2011, 2012 and 2013, 
it became apparent from new seismic data obtained in 2014 
At a glance
 While our overall portfolio is in good shape, we have 
recently fallen short of the high execution standards 
we set for ourselves.
 We have faced these challenges and we are taking robust 
action to address them.
 Irrespective of lower oil prices, Petrofac is well positioned 
to return to growth and deliver differentiated margins.
 We will pursue the clear synergies between IES and 
ECOM – and demonstrate to clients the considerable 
beneﬁts of our unique, combined offer.
Fundamental to our success  
is Petrofac’s distinctive,  
delivery-focused culture and  
the six values that sustain 
it: safe, ethical, innovative, 
responsive, quality and cost 
conscious, and driven to deliver.
Ayman Asfari
Group Chief Executive
11
Petrofac 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements that the subsurface had previously been poorly deﬁned. 
Consequently some of our investment did not yield sufﬁcient 
production improvement and we do not anticipate being able 
to create shareholder value from continued investment in the 
contract. We have therefore decided to exit from the project 
and will be discussing exit options with OMV Petrom.
As the signiﬁcance and the cumulative effect of the Laggan-
Tormore and Greater Stella Area projects in particular became 
apparent, we were compelled to update our investors and, 
inevitably, the reaction from the markets was damning. 
The situation was then compounded by the tumbling oil price, 
which meant our sector fell even further from favour.
For a company like Petrofac, the position in which we found 
ourselves in late 2014 was unprecedented and uncomfortable 
in equal measure. 
As a signiﬁcant shareholder in my own right, I certainly shared 
the concern of fellow investors. Quickly and purposefully, we 
moved to resolve these executional issues. We have identiﬁed 
the root causes and are taking steps to ensure such mistakes will 
not be repeated. Irrespective of lower oil prices, I am conﬁdent 
Petrofac is well positioned to return to growth and deliver 
differentiated margins.
Acknowledging the successes of 2014
Whilst I do not intend to downplay the challenges of 2014, and  
will come on to explain how we are addressing them, I do believe 
it is important to recognise the year’s successes.
Maintaining a sector-leading safety record 
Safety is our ﬁrst and our most important value and a key 
component of operational excellence. 
With no fatalities in 2014, and a lost time incident (LTI) frequency 
rate of 0.044 per 200,000 man-hours, our performance indicators 
are better than industry norms, and we did more to ensure that 
everyone who works for and with Petrofac understands and 
abides by our safety ethos. Whilst I am pleased with our 2014 
safety record, there can be no room for complacency and we will 
continue to keep safety paramount in our daily actions, individually 
and collectively. 
Making good progress on challenging projects
Across the bulk of the portfolio, our record for operational 
excellence continued unabated. We have approximately 50 
signiﬁcant projects currently in execution, nine of them more 
than US$1 billion in value. 
Where we did face execution issues, we also moved to resolve 
them. At the Laggan-Tormore Shetland Gas Plant, for example, 
we have now completed most of the construction work, agreed 
a commercial settlement with Total, and expect to complete the 
project in the third quarter of 2015.
On the FPF1 modiﬁcation works, for the Greater Stella Area 
project, progress has been slower than expected over the winter. 
While the unit is in an advanced state, mechanical completion 
is now expected in the third quarter of 2015. We have good 
visibility on the scope and the required resources are in place to 
complete the upgrade and modiﬁcation. Given the lower oil price 
environment, we are prioritising cost optimisation, certainty of 
delivery and completion of all works prior to sailaway, ahead of 
the timing of ﬁrst production. Sailaway is now expected in early 
2016, following the winter weather window, with ﬁrst production 
scheduled for mid-2016. Petrofac, as modiﬁcations contractor, 
has made a number of variation requests and other claims on the 
ﬁeld owners and we are continuing to discuss these with them.
Building-up a record backlog
With a record year-end backlog of US$18.9 billion, 2014 was  
our best ever year for new business. Even after oil prices began 
to fall, a respectable deal ﬂow continued, along with sustainable 
bidding behaviour from our competitors. In January 2015, we 
secured the Lower Fars heavy oil project in Kuwait, adding around 
US$3 billion to our backlog. With the softness in the market we 
are well positioned with a strong backlog and with execution 
risk reduced in a deﬂationary environment for procurement and 
subcontractor services.
This brings excellent revenue visibility for 2015 and beyond. 
Further diversifying the ECOM business
During 2014, our Engineering, Construction, Operations and 
Maintenance (ECOM) business continued with its geographic 
and business model diversiﬁcation. 
Until recently, for example, OPO was a UK-centric business. 
It now secures more than 50% of its earnings from outside of 
the UKCS, and made important entries into Algeria, Iraq and 
UAE. At the same time, Engineering & Consulting Services (ECS) 
secured its ﬁrst major engineering, procurement, and construction 
management (EPCM) contract, at Rabab Harweel in Oman, which 
enables it to deliver project execution services on a reimbursable 
basis. We also moved further downstream, making progress on 
our ﬁrst major reﬁnery project, located in Oman, and securing a 
package for the new Clean Fuels Project in Kuwait. 
Ensuring the strength and depth of our leadership
Our continuing success depends on the quality and attitude  
of our people and, in particular, our leadership. 
Building our capability and reinforcing our values has always been 
important. In 2014 we put more rigour behind our people strategy 
– with a particular emphasis on effective talent management 
and succession planning across our top 200 employees – which 
continues to be supported through the appointment of a new 
Group Director of Human Resources.
Group Chief Executive’s Strategic review continued
12
Petrofac
Annual report and accounts 2014 Building strong, differentiating corporate  
responsibility credentials
Another asset, which we believe sets Petrofac apart from many 
of our peers, is our corporate responsibility (CR) commitment and 
capability. This helps us to build productive relationships, bid for 
challenging projects, develop trust, manage risk and improve our 
performance. During 2014, we brought yet more discipline to our 
CR programmes, thereby helping us to understand and live up  
to changing client and investor expectations.
While we understand the gravity and impact of the challenges we 
faced in 2014, we are determined not to let them overshadow the 
progress made across the Group as a whole.
Re-committing to our business strategy
Our strategy is intended to maximise the opportunities available to 
us by using the breadth and depth of our services and capabilities 
to deliver excellent outcomes for our clients and create value for 
our colleagues and investors.
Fundamental to our success is Petrofac’s distinctive, delivery-
focused culture and the six values that sustain it: safe, ethical, 
innovative, responsive, quality and cost conscious, and driven 
to deliver.
Our strategic intent is to build progressively on our core business 
which, in turn, enables us to achieve a more balanced geographic 
and business model mix, and to work across the entire life cycle 
of our clients’ assets, from early development right through to 
decommissioning. In our core business our focus remains on 
delivering our backlog through a relentless focus on ﬁrst class 
project execution, cost control and effective risk management, 
building on our track record in core markets and further cementing 
our foothold in geographies where we are newer players.
Through most of 2014 the market conditions did nothing to deﬂect 
us from this strategy. Nonetheless towards the end of the year we 
found ourselves adapting to new market conditions as a result of 
lower oil prices. 
Having begun to re-focus the IES business early in 2014, we then 
considered carefully how to de-risk the delivery of our deepwater 
capabilities. We also introduced several new commitments to 
ensure that we avoid unacceptable executional risks: 
With regards to IES
The original strategic rationale was for IES to bring value to the 
wider Petrofac Group, and offer another route to market for 
our full range of services. In re-focusing the business, we are 
re-committing to this original purpose and we will focus on projects 
that play to our existing strengths. To be successful in this, we will 
work across the Group together from the business development 
stage, agreeing on the target and developing a robust pursuit and 
execution strategy along with clear accountabilities for delivery 
from the outset.
We are therefore building on the successes of IES to date. It has, 
for example, successfully established our position in the shallow 
water offshore market, and taken us into several new geographies 
such as Algeria, Malaysia and Mexico. It has also added 
signiﬁcantly to our wider capabilities.
At the same time, we are slowing down the pace of capital 
deployment, reducing capital intensity where it makes sense 
to do so, and looking at ways we can tap into third-party capital 
(the creation of PetroFirst Infrastructure Partners being a prime 
example), and not committing signiﬁcant new capital until we have 
extracted the right value from the existing portfolio.
The overall emphasis, however, is to pursue the clear synergies 
between IES and ECOM – and demonstrate to clients the 
considerable beneﬁts of our unique, combined offer.
With regards to our deepwater ambitions
Ultimately, the scale of the deepwater market will be determined 
by the movements in the oil price. However, there are certainly 
opportunities out there and, from speaking to clients, competitors 
and potential partners alike, I know that the market is impressed 
by the unique conﬁguration and capabilities of the Petrofac 
JSD6000 – our new installation vessel, which is currently under 
construction and due for delivery in 2017 .
During 2015, we will monitor the market opportunities for use  
of the vessel and will manage its construction programme in  
the context of the prospects available for its use. 
With regards to our focus on delivery excellence
Simply put, the challenges of 2014 can be traced back to a failure 
to appreciate fully the risks we faced as we worked in unfamiliar 
geographies and with untested partners, and in areas where we 
strayed outside of our core competencies. To ensure this does 
not happen again, we have made a series of commitments:
 with lump-sum contracts, we will be more risk averse. We will no 
longer take construction risk on large lump-sum projects within 
the UK, and elsewhere we will scrutinise our assumptions with 
regard to workforce productivity
 wherever we work and on whatever basis, we will ensure that 
we have robust contractual protection on both the time and cost 
associated with severe weather disruption
 with ﬂoating infrastructure upgrades, we will also ensure that 
the interests of our fabrication partners are closely aligned with 
our own
 we will only undertake Production Enhancement Contracts 
where the value is primarily driven by our core competencies 
rather than reservoir performance
Yes, this does reduce our ﬂexibility. However, we can satisfy 
ourselves that the right mix of risk and reward can be established 
for every project.
13
Petrofac 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements Group Chief Executive’s Strategic review continued
Well positioned to capitalise on a low 
price environment
I acknowledge that, for many investors, the prospect of a 
sustained period of low oil prices is an abiding concern. I would 
like to assure you that Petrofac is well positioned to cope with 
these market challenges and capitalise on the opportunities that  
I believe will present themselves in this environment.
The strength of our backlog, means our revenue visibility is better 
than it has been at any other point in our 34-year history.
Secondly, Petrofac is strongest in those market segments 
that are least vulnerable to lower oil prices. Primarily, we work 
with National Oil Companies, many of whom have signalled an 
intention to keep on investing. Although we work globally, our 
operations tend to be concentrated in the Middle East and North 
Africa, a region that enjoys the world’s lowest marginal production 
costs and despite the market conditions, we continue to see an 
attractive pipeline of bidding opportunities in our core markets.
We do have operations in the UKCS where the picture is very 
different. Here, our business beneﬁts from our clients’ operating 
expenditure rather than capital spending, and we have already 
been working with clients to improve cost effectiveness. 
Ultimately, our prospects in this region will depend on structural 
and ﬁscal considerations as well as changes in the oil price. 
Even if production has to be reined in, clients will be looking for 
new models to run mature and extra-mature assets, and we are 
well placed to compete for a substantial decommissioning market.
With a weaker global economy, and reduced demand for 
hitherto scarce skills, the prospect of a deﬂationary environment 
should help to de-risk the delivery of our record backlog through 
procurement cost savings.
Finally, in these market conditions, the core Petrofac offer 
becomes more compelling. With centres of excellence in 
the Middle East and India, our cost structure is competitive. 
Meanwhile, our focus on operational excellence and our 
willingness to share project risk with our clients ensures alignment 
of our respective interests.
Weighing up these circumstances we expect to deliver 
around US$460 million of net income in 2015, in line with 
our previous guidance
1
.
1 On 24 November 2014, we guided to net proﬁt in 2015 of around 
US$500 million based on the then prevailing average 2015 forward oil price  
of around US$82 per barrel and stated that a further increase/decrease of 
US$1 in the price of oil would impact net earnings by around US$2 million. 
Based on the current average 2015 forward oil price of around US$60 per 
barrel, we therefore currently expect net earnings to be around US$460 million. 
Other than the movement in the oil price, the Group continues to perform in 
line with management expectations at the time of the November announcement.
Acknowledging our strongest asset – the skills 
and ethos of our people
I would like to pay tribute to our people who help make Petrofac 
such a unique Company, and who are working together through 
these challenging times.
I want to thank each and every one of them for their efforts in 2014 
and I look forward to working together during what I am conﬁdent 
will be a successful 2015.
One person who deserves special recognition is Norman Murray 
who, due to personal reasons, stepped down as Chairman of the 
Board in mid-2014. We were extremely sorry to see Norman go, 
and sympathise deeply with his situation. He made a special and 
signiﬁcant contribution to Petrofac’s success, and the seamless 
transition to his successor, Rijnhard van Tets, is testament 
to Norman’s outstanding professionalism. I look forward to 
continuing to work with Rijnhard and the rest of our Board, 
who have also been very supportive, as we continue to deliver 
our agenda.
Strong foundations for long-term growth
Over the longer term, we anticipate increased demand for energy 
fuelled by a growing appetite for hydrocarbons and ongoing 
capital spending by resource holders. The strength of our 
backlog, underpinned by our competitive cost structure, relentless 
focus on execution and our ﬂexibility to adapt our offering to client 
and market demands, ensures Petrofac and our shareholders 
will be well positioned to beneﬁt from these conditions over the 
longer term.
14
Petrofac
Annual report and accounts 2014  As a business with a  
strong entrepreneurial heritage, 
we are always looking for  
new ways to bring value to  
our clients – understanding  
their needs, drawing on our 
resources and relationships, 
and adapting our offer 
accordingly.
Extracting client value 
in Mexico
Our performance in Mexico characterises 
this approach.
Back in 2011, we won two integrated services 
contracts to develop the Magallanes and 
Santuario blocks in south-central Mexico, 
and were then awarded two more Production 
Enhancement Contracts – for Pánuco 
and Arenque.
Since taking over, we have boosted 
production, increased drilling efﬁciency 
and pushed up the known resource base.
In Santuario, for example, our teams 
were convinced they could ﬁnd additional 
reserves in untapped, adjacent blocks. 
Bringing together many different in-house 
disciplines, they argued their case, 
proposed an effective drilling strategy, 
and successfully made a new discovery 
of commercial proportions.
Meanwhile, to add to our capability and 
drive new cost-efﬁciencies, we partnered 
with the Mexican conglomerate Group Alfa 
to create a new service company, PetroAlfa. 
Quickly growing to more than 80 employees, 
it now provides Petrofac and the wider oil 
and gas industry with a growing range of 
engineering, procurement, drilling and 
maintenance services.
Design Build Manage and maintain Train
Financial statements
Governance
Strategic report
Petrofac 
Annual report and accounts 2014 15
