 Chairman’s statement
During a tough year, we adapted to signiﬁcant change, re-calibrated our 
strategic direction, and renewed our focus on excellence in execution.
At a glance
 Despite the challenges of 2014, our ability to execute 
challenging contracts in difﬁcult conditions remains  
a core competence.
 With our strongest ever backlog, and our most 
successful year for new business, we have excellent 
revenue visibility for 2015 and beyond.
 Our focus for 2015 remains: ensuring excellent execution; 
re-positioning IES; securing sales to support our 
deepwater strategy and maintaining capital discipline.
Against a difﬁcult background 
and a disappointing ﬁnancial 
performance, the Board has been 
systematically scrutinising the 
strategic direction, particularly 
the trajectory of the IES business 
and the move by OCP into 
deepwater operations.
Rijnhard van Tets
Non-executive Chairman
I regard 2014 as a year of transition for Petrofac not only for the 
business but also for the Board and its composition. I would like 
to start by paying tribute to my predecessor, Norman Murray, 
who stepped down as Chairman for compassionate reasons in 
August 2014. During the three years that Norman led the Board, 
he consistently championed the necessity for robust processes 
and systems so that the Board can appropriately exercise its 
judgement when assessing if a particular risk, whether strategic 
or operational, is justiﬁed by the potential reward. On behalf of 
the entire Board, I would like to thank Norman for his exemplary 
leadership and extend our best wishes to him. As we reported  
last year, Andy Inglis, CEO of IES, left at the start of 2014. 
During the year, the Company adjusted to several other new 
realities, some of them very challenging. I want to address these 
one-by-one, before going on to talk about the 2014 performance, 
our future prospects, and the implications for our shareholders.
Restoring our reputation
One thing that has always set Petrofac apart is its reputation 
for excellence in project delivery. 
However, for three projects in particular – the Greater Stella 
Area and Laggan-Tormore, both in the UKCS, and the Ticleni 
Production Enhancement Contract in Romania – that reputation 
suffered in 2014.
For a Company that puts so much store by its track record,  
our pride has been hurt. Our trading update issued in November 
2014, which provided revised earnings guidance for 2015, 
by chance coincided with the 2014 leadership conference. 
What struck me when I attended a portion of this event was 
the clear, across-the-board determination to learn from any 
shortcomings and re-commit to Petrofac’s distinctive, delivery-
focused culture. The Board is of a similar mind and will focus 
on supporting the management team as it seeks to restore the 
Company’s reputation for consistently reliable execution.
Whilst nobody is complacent about the events of the last year, 
our ability to execute challenging contracts in difﬁcult conditions 
remains a core competence. We successfully completed several 
projects in the year, namely the gas sweetening facilities project 
in Qatar and the KOC pipeline and KOC efﬂuent water projects 
in Kuwait. During the year, we started on the clean fuels project in 
Kuwait, the Khazzan central processing facility in Oman and after 
a period of delay due to the client re-scoping the project, have 
really started to gain momentum on the Upper Zakum project  
in Abu Dhabi. In addition, we have successfully bid for a number 
of signiﬁcant projects in our core markets. 
07
Petrofac 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements Adapting to a tougher environment
Every company in the oil and gas world is adjusting to a major 
shift in economics. It has been noticeable over the last year that 
concluding our commercial settlements has taken longer and 
required more effort. Few people would have predicted such a 
dramatic and sudden fall in oil prices. Everyone is suffering from  
a crisis of market conﬁdence and we are re-calibrating our 
strategic approach accordingly.
Arguably, Petrofac is less susceptible than many.
Oil price ﬂuctuations only have a direct impact on parts 
of our business. For example, our IES business does 
have exposure to the oil price, and winning deployment 
opportunities for our Petrofac JSD6000 offshore installation 
vessel will remain challenging in the current price environment. 
Notwithstanding these pressures, most of the Group’s income 
comes from national oil companies which historically have 
continued to invest in their assets during periods of economic 
uncertainty and this gives us comfort that our backlog position 
is robust. Moreover our operations remain concentrated in the 
Middle East and North Africa where the costs of extracting 
hydrocarbons are relatively modest. 
At the same time, the long-term fundamentals remain strong.
All indications support the view that the global energy appetite  
will continue to grow in the longer term. Large-scale investments 
in oil and gas infrastructure will be needed to meet this demand. 
As a result, commercially innovative oilﬁeld services will continue 
to be sought after.
Progressing to a more balanced portfolio
Against a difﬁcult background and a disappointing ﬁnancial 
performance, the Board has been systematically scrutinising the 
Group’s strategic direction, particularly the trajectory of the IES 
business and the move by OCP into deepwater operations.
The details of the IES business are covered elsewhere in this 
Report, but the direction is towards a less capital-intensive, 
more balanced portfolio with a greater emphasis on Group-wide 
synergies. Addressing the future of IES has been an area of strong 
focus for the Board in the second half of 2014 and will remain so 
in 2015. With regards to our deepwater ambitions, the long-term 
strategic rationale remains valid. The Board agreed nevertheless 
that in view of the rapidly changing external environment, the 
immediate priorities are to de-risk our execution, secure sales, 
and manage the construction programme of our new installation 
vessel in light of the opportunities available for its use. 
It is also important to acknowledge several strategic successes. 
In OEC, the order book and the backlog continued to be 
replenished and now stands at a record level. In OPO, the 
business continues to be successfully diversiﬁed outside the 
UK, with additional international contract wins during the year. 
In ECS, we have focused on increasing our external sales, not 
just supporting the OEC business. Petroleum Development Oman 
awarded ECS an Engineering and Procurement contract with a 
value of more than US$1 billion in March 2014, our largest ever 
reimbursable contract. 
This means we exit 2014 with a more balanced and structurally 
sound portfolio.
Taking steps to improve our ﬁnancial returns
In re-shaping our portfolio, we are also working towards improving 
our ﬁnancial returns.
With our strongest ever backlog, and our most successful year for 
new business, we have excellent revenue visibility for 2015 and beyond.
At the same time, we have focused on our capital discipline, 
and are determined to become progressively less capital 
intensive. A good example of our approach is the agreement 
we reached with First Reserve to create PetroFirst Infrastructure 
Partners. As well as freeing up approximately US$400 million of 
Petrofac capital, this innovative new approach provides us with 
a signiﬁcant pool of third-party capital – enabling the Company to 
pursue more infrastructure opportunities in a capital efﬁcient way.
Further, we recognise that in the current climate effective 
management of working capital will be crucial, and the Board 
is very much focused on ensuring our cash collection processes 
remain robust and disciplined. 
At the end of 2014 our net debt was US$733 million (2013: 
US$727 million) and our cash generated from operations was 
US$790 million (2013: US$5 million). The substantial improvement 
on 2013 cash generation reﬂects tight working capital 
management, cash advances received on some of the major 
project awards in the year and the ﬁnalisation of a small number  
of commercial settlements with our clients.
Maintaining a strong Board for the future
I have already spoken about changes to the Board that took 
place this year. Looking ahead, I am very sorry indeed to report 
that Roxanne Decyk has decided to step down from the Board 
following the AGM in May 2015. Roxanne’s US commitments have 
increased signiﬁcantly recently and she is concerned that she will 
have insufﬁcient time to discharge her responsibilities as a Director 
of Petrofac. I would like to thank Roxanne for her signiﬁcant 
contribution over the last four years and wish her well on behalf 
of the Board. 
In view of these past and forthcoming resignations, the 
Nominations Committee initiated a search in the middle of the 
year for at least one new Non-executive Director. As a result, 
the Board is now delighted to recommend to shareholders the 
appointment of Dr Matthias Bichsel as a Non-executive Director at 
our forthcoming AGM. Matthias will help to maintain a Board that 
is strong, well-balanced and multi-disciplinary. We have a good 
ratio of Non-executive-to-Executive Directors. We have deep 
experience in energy, engineering and corporate responsibility, 
as well as ﬁnancial, project and business management. 
When I took over as Chairman, I already had seven years of 
Board experience with Petrofac, so the transition promised to be 
seamless. Nevertheless the role of Chairman is different from that of 
Senior Independent Director. Whilst there is no recognised separate 
induction programme for a Chairman, I took time to reﬂect on 
what I might choose to do in order to help me discharge my 
responsibilities. I have undertaken a series of meetings with our 
major shareholders in order to understand their views better; 
consulted with our professional advisers with a view to deepening 
my appreciation of the UK governance framework; and undertaken 
a number of visits to our ofﬁces across the globe as well as two 
site visits, details of which can be found in my Governance report. 
I believe that the Chairman in particular should get out into the 
business and talk to as many of our employees as possible as this 
gives a real insight into the Group’s culture and values.
Chairman’s statement continued
08
Petrofac
Annual report and accounts 2014 Reﬂecting on our 2014 ﬁnancial performance
Ultimately, the Group delivered US$581 million in earnings (before 
exceptional items and certain re-measurements) attributable to 
Petrofac shareholders, which falls short of our expectations at the 
start of the year but is in line with the revised guidance we gave 
during the course of the year. Aside from the impact of falling oil 
prices on IES’s trading performance, and the three projects where 
our execution fell short of our high standards, it is reassuring 
to note that we continue to deliver differentiated margins in 
ECOM. Although market conditions do remain unpredictable, 
we have also begun to take clear steps to return to long-term 
sustainable growth. 
Reﬂecting the lower oil price environment and future anticipated 
earnings from the IES contract portfolio, we recognised 
charges for exceptional items and certain re-measurements 
of US$461 million after tax in respect of IES. This reduced 
overall Group earnings attributable to Petrofac shareholders to 
US$120 million. 
Against this backdrop, I want to thank all Petrofac shareholders for 
your loyalty. Throughout the year, we beneﬁted from a frank and 
constructive dialogue and, as this Report should demonstrate, 
the Board is determined to repay your trust. With this in mind, we 
are proposing a ﬁnal dividend of 43.80 cents per share, which if 
approved, will be paid on 22 May 2015.
Looking to 2015 and beyond
In 2015, the Board will have certain areas of focus of immediate 
concern as well as matters that are essential to underpin the 
Company’s longer term sustainability. 
Regarding the former, the big themes for 2015 are: above all 
else, ensuring excellent execution; re-positioning IES; securing 
sales to support our deepwater strategy; and maintaining 
capital discipline. 
Firmly in our sights will naturally be the delivery of Laggan-
Tormore and the Greater Stella Area projects. The Board will be 
given regular updates on these projects as a matter of course. 
Furthermore, in reviewing and sanctioning forthcoming bids,  
we will rigorously assess the quality of project management  
and resourcing capabilities behind them. 
Considering matters that are more long term, I would like to mention 
in particular succession planning; risk management and; health, 
safety, security, environmental and integrity assurance (HSSEIA).
Succession planning, across all levels and in all areas of the 
business, will continue to receive our full attention. For the Board 
this not only means identiﬁcation of potential successors at a 
senior level but taking a deep dive into how the business identiﬁes, 
nurtures and equips the up-and-coming tranche of talent that 
will become the next generation of leaders over the forthcoming 
decade and beyond. 
I will be building on our previous Chairman’s legacy to ensure 
that our risk management systems are continuously reviewed 
and improved upon. Of course HSSEIA will remain high on our 
agenda. Given the nature and day-to-day realities of our business, 
risk and crisis management will always be important to the Board. 
Whilst we are not complacent, I am heartened that, following a 
sustained effort resulting in a number of new procedures within 
ECOM, we saw an overall improvement in safety performance in 
2014. Our lost time injury ﬁgure was slightly better than 2013 and 
we have had no fatalities in 2014. This is a solid performance on 
which management and employees should be commended.
It is of course impossible to predict the future with absolute 
certainty. We live in an uncertain world. The geopolitical situation 
in the Middle East and North Africa continues to evolve although 
to date our business has been relatively unaffected by events in 
the region. The sharp decline in oil price in 2014 took most people 
by surprise. Nevertheless, against an uncertain backdrop, I am 
heartened that our record backlog gives us excellent visibility of 
revenues through to 2015 and beyond and this is mainly in our 
core market where we have an established track record of delivery 
notwithstanding the geopolitical environment. 
Finally, I do want to thank all of our employees for their 
commitment and professionalism during a challenging year. 
In particular, I would like to pay tribute to Group Chief Executive 
Ayman Asfari. No one is more committed to the success of 
Petrofac than Ayman. It is encouraging to see how very hard he 
and his executive team are working to deliver on our collective 
commitments, and position the Group for sustainable growth  
over the longer term.
09
Petrofac 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements  The Petrofac story in Oman 
began in 1988 with the award 
of our ﬁrst ever contract in 
the country. And over the years 
we have consistently aimed 
to contribute far more to the 
country than we take away.
Collaborating to deliver 
in-country value in Oman
Local delivery has always been key to the 
Petrofac model – employing local people, 
working with local suppliers, and developing 
local capabilities.
The concept of in-country value seeks to 
formalise and quantify the contribution we 
make. It is deﬁned by the Omani authorities 
as the total spend retained in-country that 
beneﬁts development, contributes to human 
capability, and stimulates productivity in the 
national economy.
All in all, the contribution from Petrofac 
is signiﬁcant. 
Since 2005, we have had a permanent 
presence in the country with 70 full time 
employees and, right now, we are working on 
three mega-projects with a combined value 
of more than US$4.3 billion. To deliver these, 
we employ Omani nationals, we buy Omani 
components, and we use Omani contractors.
In partnership with Takatuf Oman, we are also 
establishing the country’s largest technical 
training centre. With a planned capacity of 
1,000 students a year, this will train Oman’s 
energy workforce to international standards.
For Petrofac, delivering in-country value has 
an important business dimension – growing 
our global capabilities, and enabling us to 
establish productive relationships with local 
communities, local businesses and the wider 
stakeholder community.
Design Build Manage and maintain Train
Petrofac 
Annual report and accounts 2014 10
