 Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
11
Group Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
Capturing Value by Vertical Integration
With all Aricom projects, we have explored the potential to 
move up the value chain into downstream processing in order 
to maximise the return. The most advanced area in which we are 
addressing this capture of further value is the joint venture with 
Chinalco to process Kuranakh’s ilmenite into titanium sponge. 
During 2008, the two parties ﬁnalised the joint venture agreement 
and entered into the ﬁrst stage of construction.  
In addition, our largest vertical integration project is our plan to 
upgrade our iron ore concentrate to direct reduced iron using 
the ITmk3 process owned by Kobe Steel, with whom we are in 
discussions. This high value-added product is in considerable 
demand in the local market and we are also in discussions with a 
number of potential construction partners.
Another area in which we have moved away from direct mining 
operations to utilise our current portfolio of assets and the 
availability of local expertise is the in-house mining engineering 
institute, Giproruda. The 163 specialists employed by Girproruda 
carry out work on both Aricom and third party projects and 
generate a proﬁt line for the Group as well as aiding our internal 
analytical process.  
Balance Sheet
Aricom enters 2009 with a cash balance of US$257 million and no 
debt.  Cash management has become a priority during the year 
and we have tried to maintain both a diversity of low risk banking 
exposure and blend of dollar and rouble deposits. This has resulted 
in a relatively low return on investment and foreign exchange losses 
due to the weakening rouble.
Cash conservation is a priority for the Group and a macro review of 
budgets and capital expenditure is in place. All project decisions 
are under review pending funding progress.
Outlook
Particularly in this market, I would draw shareholders’ attention 
to the risk section contained in this report, however I share my 
Chairman’s cautious optimism in believing that Aricom begins  
2009 well placed with strong mining assets, a strong cash balance 
and a growing human resource. I would like to thank everyone 
within the Aricom Group for all their hard work and I am conﬁdent 
that we can achieve our targets for 2009 and will continue to unlock 
shareholder value.
Jay Hambro
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
The year in review saw Aricom make signiﬁcant progress at key 
stages of project development and, despite the weakened 
commodity markets, the potential for our portfolio of assets to 
deliver long term shareholder value remains in place. The key  
to unlocking this value is suitable funding.
Value Creation in the Mining Portfolio
Kuranakh advanced from mining to ﬁrst production during the year 
and despite signiﬁcant delays we are now seeing good progress 
at the Olekma beneﬁciation plant with commissioning expected in 
the second half of 2009. The successful sales of pre-concentrate 
demonstrated our logistics division’s ability to deliver to market 
whilst the crushing and screening plant is now capable of operating 
at a capacity of 1mtpa.
Aricom’s full feasibility study, the results of which were published 
in October, proved the value and viability of the K&S project and 
was then independently reviewed for the beneﬁt of potential 
project ﬁnanciers. The mine plan shows a life of 40 years on current 
reserves at an average mining rate of 10mtpa. Construction work 
on basic infrastructure at site has commenced and good progress 
is being made on relevant permitting and approvals.
At Garinskoye, conﬁrmation drilling has been completed resulting 
in a proven mine-life of 25 years at 10mtpa. The initial capital outlay 
at Garinskoye has been minimised by reducing the initial scope of 
operations at site to a mining, crushing and screening facility. The 
resultant pre-concentrate would then be transported to the K&S 
project where it would be blended with K&S ore to generate a 65% 
concentrate. The study also shows a pleasing correlation of Russian 
reserve estimates to the internationally accepted JORC standard.  
The announcement of our combined feasibility study coincided 
with the initial peak in concerns on global credit markets and hence 
we have now reviewed further optimisations to reduce signiﬁcantly 
external funding requirements.  
Growth by Acquisition
Value accretive acquisitions remain an integral element of Aricom’s 
growth strategy and during 2008, Aricom acquired strategic 
extensions to both the K&S and Garinskoye projects. Although the 
potential investment return from these acquisitions is long term, 
the size of the resource acquired lifts Garinskoye and K&S to a size 
that is equivalent to a Tier 1 world class project. Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
12
Business Review
Aricom’s ﬂeet of Volvo trucks at Kuranakh Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
13
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Group Overview
Business Review
