 23410.04    17 July 2014 5:32 PM    PROOF 9
Group at 
a glance
An extensive store and services portfolio with broad national coverage
New stores opened in 2014
Stores Format Vet Groomer
Altrincham Super ✕ ✓
Barnsley Cortonwood Super ✓ ✓
Blackpool Warbreck Super ✓ ✓
Bletchley Super ✓ ✓
Bodmin Small ✕ ✕
Bridgwater Super ✓ ✓
Bromsgrove Super ✕ ✓
Burgess Hill Super ✓ ✓
Consett Small ✕ ✓
Coventry Walsgrave Small ✓ ✓
Doncaster Thorne Super ✕ ✓
Dorchester Super ✓ ✓
Dunfermline Super ✓ ✓
Eltham Small ✕ ✓
Greenford Small ✕ ✓
Hatfield Super ✓ ✓
Hertford Super ✓ ✓
Keighley Super ✓ ✓
Lancaster Super ✓ ✓
Leicester Beaumont Leys Small ✓ ✓
Luton Super ✓ ✓
Maldon Small ✕ ✓
Merry Hill Super ✓ ✓
Old Kent Road Super ✓ ✓
Penrith Super ✓ ✓
Peterborough Bretton Small ✓ ✓
Sutton in Ashfield Super ✕ ✓
Sydenham Super ✓ ✓
Tiverton Small ✕ ✕
Walsall Reedswood Super ✓ ✓
Worksop Small ✕ ✕
Superstores
Small stores
Multiple brands through  
which to engage
Pets At Home offers the ultimate pet shop 
experience, with a UK wide network of 377 
stores; 42% of stores have a vet practice, 
whilst 34% have a Groom Room.
Our veterinary brand operated with our Joint 
Venture Vet Partners acquired in March 2013, 
now numbering 158 practices. This will become 
our dominant vet brand going forward.
Our original veterinary brand operated with 
our Joint Venture Vet Partners, in operation 
since 2001 and now numbering 119 practices. 
Companion Care vets are migrating to the 
Vets4Pets brand over time.
Our dog & cat grooming service, with 127 
locations in stores, plus 2 Groom Rooms 
located in Vets Plus format practices, where a 
Groom Room is located alongside a standalone 
veterinary practice.
 
A specialist retailer of equestrian supplies with 
a superstore in York, as well as a website and 
catalogue. 
Our new format, dog focused high street store 
in Wilmslow, Cheshire. Offering premium 
products and services targeted at highly 
engaged dog owners.
Strategic report
overview
Pets At Home Group Plc
annual report and accounts for the year ended 27th March 2014
12 23410.04    17 July 2014 5:32 PM    PROOF 9
In-store
44 
 Vets4Pets
114  
Companion Care
Standalone
114  
Vets4Pets
5  
Companion Care
Unique Joint Venture veterinary business
Pets At Home operates the only large-scale joint venture veterinary services business in the UK market, 
under our two veterinary brands – Vets4Pets and Companion Care. The JV model allows each vet 
practice to operate as an independent business, owned by Pets At Home and a veterinary JV partner, 
and is funded by small loans into the business by the JV partner and Pets At Home, alongside a larger, 
independent bank loan. The JV partner pays a service charge if operating from an in-store practice, 
reflecting the cost of the space occupied, and a percentage of their revenue in the form of fee income 
to Pets At Home. We provide all the administrative and back office support, allowing the vet partner and 
their colleagues to focus on clinical excellence and delivering the best possible service to pets and their 
owners. The JV Partner also receives the benefit from the profit stream in the form of a dividend, as well 
as potential capital accretion from growing the practice.
Companion Care is our original in-store veterinary brand, whilst Vets4Pets, acquired in March 2013, 
added 92 standalone vet practices to the Group. The Group successfully integrated the two businesses, 
ahead of schedule during the course of FY14, which included the implementation of new Joint Venture 
contracts for new practices, combining support office functions and the commencement of rebranding 
of practices to Vets4Pets. We are working with our JV partners to migrate all practices to the Vets4Pets 
brand over time, as well as a single veterinary practice management system across all JV surgeries.
Whilst Pets At Home operates its vets practices principally on a JV basis, the Group is committed to 
maintaining ten wholly owned Group Venture veterinary practices. One of the functions of such Group 
Ventures is to allow potential JV partners to experience working as part of the Group, before committing 
fully to a JV practice. Another function of the Group Ventures is to allow us to trial new initiatives prior to 
launching them across the JV practices.
Stores
5 flagship
321 superstores
50 small superstores
1 new format, Barkers
In-store services
158 in-store vets
127 in-store groomers
Standalone services
117 standalone vets
2 standalone vet and groomers
Store locations
377
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Service locations
277 vets 129 groomers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Flagship Superstores Standalone vets
Small superstores In-store vets and groomers
investors.petsathome.com
London Stock Exchange: PETS
13
STRATEGIC REPORT
Overview
Investor proposition 04
Business model 06
2014 highlights 08
Chairman’s statement 10
Group at a glance  12
Market review 14
