 23410.04    17 July 2014 5:32 PM    PROOF 9
Pictured: Our success is driven by our highly engaged 
colleagues who deliver outstanding service to our pet 
customers.
Chairman’ s 
statement
10
STRATEGIC REPORT
Overview
Pets at Home Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 27th March 2014 23410.04    17 July 2014 5:32 PM    PROOF 9
Dear Shareholder
2014 was an historic year for the business, 
culminating in our listing on the premium 
segment of the London Stock Exchange. 
At the same time, we delivered record 
financial results, successfully executed on 
our growth strategy, continued to engage our 
colleagues and pet customers and enhanced 
our governance with an expanded Board of 
Directors.
Pets At Home is the leader in the highly 
attractive UK pet care market. We stand 
uniquely placed as the only UK retailer offering 
a full suite of pet products and services 
across both stores and the Internet. We offer 
customers a truly differentiated range, which 
drives engagement and loyalty in a one stop 
shop environment.
During the year, we believe we have benefited 
both from positive market dynamics as well 
as the successful execution of our plans. 
Historically, the UK pet care market has 
experienced growth levels above those of the 
overall non-food sector, driven by pet owners’ 
continued demand for innovative, premium 
products, the increased uptake of pet services 
and the desire for owners to treat and care for 
their pets as one of the family. We believe this 
dynamic continues.
In the financial year 2014, revenues grew by 
11.2% to £665.4m. We experienced another 
year of like-for-like growth, at 2.4%, driven by VIP 
Club success, strength in Advanced Nutrition, 
omni-channel and the increasing maturity of  
pet services.
Nick Wood and our executive management 
team have continued to execute our growth 
strategy for the business. We are very proud 
to have become the UK’s largest small animal 
veterinary services provider, with 277 practices 
operating under the Companion Care and 
Vets4Pets brands at year end. Our Groom Room 
services expanded at a rapid rate, with 42 
salons added to our store portfolio, the largest 
expansion we have seen in a single year. We 
also opened 32 stores, bringing our portfolio 
to 377, larger than the five closest specialist 
competitors combined. Our success is driven 
by our highly engaged colleagues who deliver 
outstanding service to our pet customers. 
This high level of colleague engagement was 
recognised by being awarded the Sunday Times 
Best Place To Work, for large companies,  
in 2013.
As a public company, our vision remains the 
same, to be the best pet shop in the world. We 
have always sought to deliver superior returns 
to our shareholders through the continued 
growth, profitability and cash flows of the 
Company. At listing, we enhanced our corporate 
governance framework with an expansion of the 
Board and the appointment of five Independent 
Non-Executive Directors: Paul Coby, Tessa 
Green, Amy Stirling and Paul Moody. And we 
welcomed Dennis Millard as Deputy Chairman 
and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
Each Director has been chosen to bring a 
range of retail, public company, commercial and 
charitable skills to Pets At Home. Brian Carroll 
has been appointed as a Non-Executive Director 
of the Board and representative of our principal 
shareholder.
Looking ahead, our performance in 2014 has 
given us a solid platform to build upon. We 
remain confident in the business and anticipate 
a further year of growth for Pets At Home.
Finally, on behalf of myself and the Board, I 
would like to thank all our colleagues for their 
substantial contribution during this historic year. 
Their continued passion and enthusiasm for the 
business are integral to our success.
We will continue to live our values in driving the 
Company forward, working together as a team 
and taking great pride in what we do.
Tony DeNunzio 
Non-Executive Chairman
11th June 2014
Did you know . . .
We added more than 2,750 products to 
stores in the year, refreshing over a third 
of our product range
See additional information online at
investors.petsathome.com
Tony DeNunzio 
Non-Executive Chairman
investors.petsathome.com
London Stock Exchange: PETS
11
STRATEGIC REPORT
Overview
Investor proposition 04
Business model 06
2014 highlights 08
Chairman’s statement 10
Group at a glance  12
Market review 14
