 23410.04    17 July 2014 5:32 PM    PROOF 9
Pictured: High colleague retention rates place Pets At 
Home as a leader within the retail industry.
Chief Executive 
Officer’ s review
Pets At Home Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 27th March 2014
18
Strategic report
Strategy and operations 23410.04    17 July 2014 5:32 PM    PROOF 9
Nick Wood 
Chief Executive Officer
Strategic overview
During the financial year 2014, we continued to make strong progress on our strategy to leverage our  
leading position in the UK pet care market and develop new opportunities for growth.
This strategy is reflected in the Pets At Home PawPrint, the internal 
articulation of our strategy to all colleagues across the business: To 
be the best pet shop in the world; by providing world class shops; 
colleagues who are friendly experts; being at the heart of every 
community; always new and exciting; offering the best vets and 
groomers; being a truly amazing place to work and putting pets  
before profit. 
The operational delivery of the strategy is achieved through three 
growth levers: 
 Expanding like-for-like sales
 Space rollout and footprint development
 Continued focus on gross margin improvement
We saw good progression against all three growth levers during the 
financial year. 
Strategy highlights
Expand 
like-for-like 
sales
Product and 
innovation
 More than 2,750 SKUs launched during the year, refreshing over one-third of our store product range
 New launches in Advanced Nutrition — Wainwright’s cat and Wainwright’s Grain Free dog food
VIP Club
 VIP Club reached 2 million members and captured over 50% of store revenues by March 2014 
 Voted ‘Best Loyalty Programme’ in retail by the Loyalty Awards 2014
Omni-channel
 New website launched in January 2014
 Web range expanded and now exceeds in-store range
Services
 Retrofit services added to stores included 18 veterinary practices and 11 Groom Room salons
Engagement
 Colleague retention rate of 81%
 Customer advocacy Net Promoter Score of 84%
Space rollout 
and footprint 
development
Store & services 
rollout
 32 new stores opened, 69 new veterinary practices 
(47 in-store, 22 standalone), 42 new Groom Room salons
 Barkers launched in Wilmslow, Cheshire — our trial high end, dog focused, high street store format 
Focus on 
segmental  
gross margin 
improvement
Product mix & 
own brand
 Advanced Nutrition now 56% of total dog and cat food sales, excluding treats (FY13: 53%)
 Wainwright’s dog food sales grew by 26.7% to £27.2m 
(FY13: £21.4m) 
 Own/private label products 42% of store revenues 
 Pet services increasing maturity starting to positively impact margins but still at early stages 
investors.petsathome.com
London Stock Exchange: PETS
19
STRATEGIC REPORT
Strategy and Operations
Chief Executive Officer’s review 18
Strategy in action 24 23410.04    17 July 2014 5:32 PM    PROOF 9
Chief Executive Officer’ s review
continued
Like-for-like growth
Product and innovation
Differentiated and unique product is critical 
to the Group’s strategy, driving both customer 
loyalty and visit frequency. We refreshed our 
product range with more than 2,750 new SKUs 
(Stock Keeping Units) in 2014, representing 
over a third of our total range. During the year, 
a number of new Advanced Nutrition (AN) 
brands were introduced to stores, including 
Barking Heads for dogs and Meowing Heads 
for cats. AN foods have superior health and 
nutritional benefits to pets and are the fastest 
growing segment of the pet food market. New 
launches within Wainwright’s, our private label 
AN range, also saw strong sales after launch, 
which included Wainwright’s for cats, as well as 
Wainwright’s Grain Free for dogs. 
VIP Club
Our VIP Club continues to grow at a rapid rate, 
reaching 2 million members and capturing 
over 50% of all revenues spent in stores by 
the end of March 2014. Increasing use of 
the loyalty card is also being seen within our 
in-store veterinary practices and Groom Room 
salons. VIP allows us to send personalised and 
targeted marketing to owners and their pets 
and will continue to be one of the key levers 
through which we can take further market 
share. This year, ahead of the Wainwright’s cat 
food launch, we were able to target cat owners 
within the VIP Club database, particularly those 
who were already purchasing Wainwright’s 
dog food. These members were sent targeted 
emails, resulting in 55% of Wainwright’s cat 
food launch sales being attributable to VIP 
Club members. Our VIP Club also creates 
charity lifelines each time a card is swiped 
and generated over £1 million for customer 
nominated charities in FY14.
Omni-channel
PetsAtHome.com was relaunched in January 
2014. The website now features only four clicks 
to checkout, richer content and offers more 
than 8,100 SKUs, higher than in-store ranges. 
Post new site launch, as expected, the website 
experienced slightly lower levels of traffic as 
re-indexing within search engines occurred, 
but more recent data shows that visits to the 
site have now recovered to pre-launch levels. 
We have also seen less activity from some 
competitor websites, meaning our overall share 
has increased slightly and we remain the highest 
traffic pet website in the UK, with more than 
three times the traffic levels of our nearest 
competitors. 
Our food subscription service, which enables 
customers to receive their fifth order for free, 
remains in trial. Our Click and Collect (C&C) 
service, which allows customers to place an 
order on the website for collection in store 
within two hours, continues to perform well. 
C&C sales, as a precentage of total website 
sales, have been maintained since the new 
website launch. This is just one lever through 
which we seek to drive footfall to stores via the 
website, and we continue to view our online 
strategy as far more than simply a platform for 
customer purchases, but as a portal to drive 
engagement and cross-selling activities. 
Looking ahead, we plan to launch mobile and 
tablet friendly website versions and increase 
our online product range towards a target of 
10,000 SKUs. We will rollout Deliver To Store, 
which enables customers to order any product 
available online for delivery into a local store. 
We are also enabling the redemption of VIP 
vouchers online. This will create a seamless 
store and online shopping experience for VIP 
customers, as well as allowing us to track offer 
redemption rates and measure success and 
returns more easily. 
“We refreshed our product 
range with more than 2,750 
new SKUs in 2014”
2012
2013
2014
Pictured: Refreshment of our Summer Brights 
dog bed range
Pets At Home Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 27th March 2014
20
Strategic report
Strategy and operations 23410.04    17 July 2014 5:32 PM    PROOF 9
Services
Retrofitting of veterinary practices and Groom 
Room salons to existing stores drives like-
for-like store sales, by enhancing our overall 
proposition, driving store footfall and enabling 
cross-selling of products. During the year, 
18 veterinary practices and 11 Groom Room 
salons were added to existing stores.
Engagement
Customer and colleague engagement is central 
to the Group’s success, creating loyalty and like-
for-like sales growth. Through our highly trained 
and engaged colleagues, we seek to increase 
our share of spend with current customers and 
extend the Pets At Home experience to new 
customers.
colleague engagement levels, which are 
measured through an internally collated survey, 
were 93% in FY14 (FY13: 93%). Being able to 
maintain such a high level of engagement is 
reflective of our rewards system, the specialist 
training offered, and the opportunity for 
colleagues to change roles and diversify their 
skill sets within the business. 
Colleague retention rates decreased marginally 
in FY14 to 81% (FY13: 83%), but such a rate 
still places Pets At Home as a leader within the 
retail industry. 
Pets At Home measures customer advocacy 
through the Net Promoter Score (“NPS”), 
gathered through Fish4opinion.co.uk, a 
customer service survey website operated 
by the Group. With over 110,000 customer 
feedback points over the year, FY14 NPS levels 
were maintained at 84% (FY13: 84%). During 
the year, we implemented some changes to 
the way in which NPS is measured, effectively 
raising the threshold at which we consider 
scores given by customers to represent a 
positive experience. If we had maintained the 
same criteria as the previous year, NPS would 
have been 86%. This is a key example of our 
values in action: challenging our standards and 
getting better every day.
Our fundraising initiatives on behalf of our 
nominated charity, Support Adoption For Pets, 
also grew strongly during the year. Support 
Adoption For Pets, which is the largest animal 
re-homing charity in the UK, raised £2.65m for 
national animal welfare charities and local re-
homing organisations during the year and has 
raised over £10m since its inception in 2006. 
Space and footprint expansion
A key part of the Group’s strategy is to increase 
the number of stores, in-store and standalone 
veterinary practices, and Groom Room salons.
During FY14, Pets At Home opened 32 new 
stores, bringing the total store portfolio to 377 
across the UK. The portfolio includes the new 
trial high street store format, Barkers. ‘Barkers 
of Wilmslow’ opened in Wilmslow, Cheshire, 
in March 2014, featuring high end exclusive 
luxury dog products, at the premium end of the 
market. 
investors.petsathome.com
London Stock Exchange: PETS
21
STRATEGIC REPORT
Strategy and Operations
Chief Executive Officer’s review 16
Strategy in action 24 23410.04    17 July 2014 5:32 PM    PROOF 9
Chief Executive Officer’ s review
continued
During the year, we became the largest provider 
of small animal veterinary services to pet 
owners in the UK, with a vet portfolio at year 
end of 277 practices. Of the 69 new veterinary 
practices opened, 18 were retrofits to current 
stores, 29 were new in-store locations and 
22 were standalone practices. Pets at Home 
operates the only large scale Joint Venture 
veterinary services model in the UK market, 
under our two veterinary brands – Companion 
Care, our original veterinary brand, and 
Vets4Pets, acquired in March 2013. The Joint 
Venture (JV) model allows each vet practice to 
operate as an independent business, jointly 
owned by Pets At Home and a veterinary 
JV partner, funded by small loans into the 
business by the JV partner and Pets At Home, 
alongside a larger, independent bank loan. The 
ownership structure enables all profits and 
capital accretion within the JV to accrue to the 
vet partner. This structure gives us the ability 
to work closely with the partner to develop their 
business and overcome any challenges, which 
is key to the success of the business model. 
The JV vet partner pays a service charge, 
reflecting the cost of the space occupied in 
store, and a percentage of their revenue in the 
form of fee income to Pets At Home, whilst we 
provide all the administrative and back office 
support, allowing the vet partner and their 
colleagues to focus on clinical excellence and 
delivering the best possible service to pets and 
their owners.
The current vet portfolio has 119 Companion 
Care practices and 158 Vets4Pets practices 
(of which 92 were acquired in 2013). Going 
forward, we are opening all new surgeries 
under the Vets4Pets brand and working with 
our current Joint Venture partners to move 
to Vets4Pets branding, which will enable 
advertising synergies across the Vet Group, 
leveraging national brand awareness with 
potential new customers.
Groom Room rollout was particularly strong 
during the year, with 42 new openings, of which 
11 were retrofits and 31 within new stores. 
The UK grooming services market is highly 
fragmented and the Groom Room is positioned 
as the only branded chain in the market, ideally 
positioned to benefit from increased demand. 
“During the year, we became 
the largest provider of small 
animal veterinary services to 
pet owners in the UK”
Revenues
£665.4m 
(2013: £598.3m)

11.2%
Underlying EBITDA
£110.7m 
(2013: £98.5m)

12.4%
Pets At Home Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 27th March 2014
22
Strategic report
Strategy and operations 23410.04    17 July 2014 5:32 PM    PROOF 9
Going forward, Pets At Home has a strong 
store and services rollout programme. Current 
analysis, conducted in conjunction with CACI, 
shows the potential for over 500 stores, 45 
in-store vets, over 250 standalone vets and 
over 300 grooming salons in the UK market.
Focus on gross margin
The Group remains focused on innovation, 
increasing brand choice for customers and 
developing its own brand and private label 
offerings in order to improve margins. Higher 
margin Advanced Nutrition (AN) and private 
label products, such as Wainwright’s, are an 
important contributor. During the year, we 
launched a number of new AN brands to stores, 
helping to drive AN revenues to 56% of total 
dog and cat food revenues, excluding food 
treats (FY13: 53%). Wainwright’s dog food also 
continued to gain popularity, growing by 26.7% 
to £27.2m (FY13: £21.4m). Own brand and 
private label products represented 42.4% 
of gross store revenues during the year  
(FY13: 42.1%).
As our vet practices and Groom Room salons 
continue to mature, we have begun to see an 
increasing contribution to Group profitability. 
The JV vet practices take up to seven years 
to mature, although they are profitable to the 
Group from opening, through the percentage 
of revenue payment and start-up fees. As the 
JVs mature and reach higher utilisation rates 
there is an opportunity for our revenue stream 
to increase without a significant increase in 
our cost base, delivering margin leverage. 
Within the Groom Room business, new salons 
are dilutive in the first two years, with maturity 
achieved after five years. We remain excited 
about the further maturation and potential 
margin benefit the services opportunity 
presents.
Summary and outlook
Pets At Home has delivered excellent results 
in the past financial year, increasing like-
for-like sales, improving underlying EBITDA 
margin, delivering on the rollout programme, 
strengthening our pet services offer and 
increasing the profile of the brand.
The pet care market outlook remains good. 
Whilst economic indicators for the UK are 
positive, the lack of a sustained increase in 
consumer disposable incomes gives some 
caution to the outlook. We remain comfortable 
with market expectations for the coming 
financial year.
The Group will continue to execute its strategy, 
leveraging a number of growth opportunities: 
improving like-for-like sales, increasing space 
and optimising our footprint through the 
inclusion of pet services, and maintaining a 
focus on gross margin. We expect to open 
around 25 stores, 60 veterinary practices and 
50 Groom Room salons in FY15.
The Board and executive management team 
remain confident in the future prospects of the 
Group.
Nick Wood 
Chief Executive Officer
11th June 2014
“Higher margin Advanced 
Nutrition and private label 
products, such as Wainwright’s, 
are an important contributor to 
gross margin progression”
Pictured: Launch of Wainwright’s Grain Free for 
dogs in FY14
investors.petsathome.com
London Stock Exchange: PETS
23
STRATEGIC REPORT
Strategy and Operations
Chief Executive Officer’s review 18
Strategy in action 24
