 PHOENIX ACCENTURE
Phoenix is working with Accenture
providing technical deployment
personnel in support of the NHS’
Choose & Book programme. Phoenix
provides project management,
scheduling and deployment of a 
range of expert technical resources.
By supplying a full back office facility,
Phoenix provides a single point 
of contact for Accenture. This ensures
a streamlined and flexible process 
for the request and allocation of
resources, scaled to match varying
demand by each health authority.
Under an agreement with the UK
Department of Health, Accenture 
is the Local Service Provider for two 
of five geographically based clusters.
Accenture is designing, building,
deploying and operating key
information systems to support the
delivery of world-class patient care
and services. Accenture is also
working with health care applications
companies to develop and deploy 
a new suite of tools that includes
electronic appointment booking 
and transmission of prescriptions.
04 Phoenix IT Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2006
CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE’S
REVIEW
Nick Robinson
Chief Executive
In order to increase the added value we generate, we are
continually seeking to increase both the range and the depth 
of the services we provide to existing customers, in addition 
to attracting new customers or addressing new sectors. 
This continuous development into new services has been 
one of the key success factors for Phoenix historically and 
we believe it will continue to be so in the future.
Alongside large outsourcing contracts, the Group’s strategy 
is to develop niche services, commanding high margins, and
to sell these services into niche markets, and this is proving
successful. The large and growing UK market offers significant
opportunities for the Group and the Board believes that a
continuing focus on the UK in the foreseeable future will best
maximise the growth potential of the Group.
PHOENIX IT SERVICES
During the year Phoenix IT Services has continued to broaden
its range of services, with midrange support and remote
management being substantially upgraded. Phoenix now 
offers its own ‘NetControl’ remote network management, 
and in the course of the year, a key partner commenced 
selling our solution to their end users.
The Phoenix IT Services contracted order book was stable 
year on year at £125m. Since the year end the order book 
has benefited from a major contract win. The pipeline of new
business opportunities and bid activity has increased from 
the levels seen in the last year. If successful, the length of the
sales cycle on these sales bids means that revenues would
commence in the second half of the new financial year.
During the year Service Delivery Quality achieved increased to
98%. This exceptionally high level of service provides a solid
platform for growing our business with existing customers.
Increasingly, telecommunications providers and vendors,
together with software companies, are being driven into the 
IT services market by the forces of convergence and the need 
to maintain margins. We are also seeing Business Process
Outsourcing (BPO) businesses competing against IT outsourcers
and integrators and there continues to be an increasing number
of offshore entrants into the UK IT services market. 
SUMMARY OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES
Phoenix IT Group is one of the UK’s leading IT service
providers. We provide a wide range of services including
remote network and systems management, network services,
technical help desks, field services and professional services.
Often these services are sold and delivered as a managed
service where we manage complex IT infrastructures to 
agreed levels of service under long-term contracts.
The key differentiator for Phoenix within the IT services market 
is our focus on providing services through major IT service
organisations (‘partners’) in support of their customers (‘end
users’). We have developed long-term relationships with many 
of our partners, providing ongoing services with a high level 
of service quality, and we have had relationships with many 
of our major partners for over five years. This allows us access
to the largest proportion of spending on IT services in the UK
which we believe could not be achieved as efficiently if selling
directly to the largest end users.
Through NDR, the Group also provides a range of business
continuity services primarily to the small and medium-size
enterprise (SME) market, and can also access SME customers
with other IT services. 05 Phoenix IT Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2006
AVERAGE LENGTH OF 
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP
The average length of our top 10
partner relationships is over six years,
demonstrating our understanding of 
our customers’ evolving needs and the
quality of the service Phoenix provides.
STRONG 
RELA TIONSHIPS NDR EPSON
NDR’s flexible recovery service
enabled Epson to choose the type 
of recovery they needed at the time
the disaster occurred.
NDR staff were on site at Uxbridge 
on the Sunday morning ensuring 
that everything was set up to the
customer’s specification. Work also
began immediately on the VPN link 
to Holland. This ensured that Epson
could continue operating as if in their
own building, with access to e-mail
and business systems as normal. 
Epson’s Sales and Marketing
operation based in Hemel 
Hempstead suffered partial 
building damage as a result of the
Buncefield Fuel Depot explosion.
150 Epson employees were 
relocated to NDR’s Uxbridge business
recovery centre to continue operating.
This allowed Epson to maintain
business activities and reputation
during a peak sales period.
Epson’s sales and marketing
department operated successfully 
out of NDR Uxbridge for several
weeks spanning the peak Christmas
sales period.
‘We are really grateful for their
support.’ – Nick Harwood, Inventory
and Planning Manager – Epson.
06 Phoenix IT Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2006
CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE’S 
REVIEW
CONTINUED
Each of these market trends creates more potential 
partners and provides us with further revenue opportunities.
During the last year Phoenix IT Services has reinvigorated
relationships and developed new partner relationships with 
a number of telecommunications providers and vendors, 
BPO businesses and offshore providers. We are confident 
that these relationships will provide long-term benefits.
NDR
NDR provides consultancy advice, real time data backup, 
office and mobile facilities, computer equipment and 
support for customers in case of disaster or major business
interruption. The business was purchased in April 2005 and
has performed strongly in the year, exceeding our financial
expectations.
Developments initiated in the year were a new Business
Continuity Centre with 120 positions utilising space at 
Phoenix’s offices in Northampton and the extension of the 
City of London Business Continuity Centre. In addition, we 
are in the process of extending our fleet of disaster recovery 
units with a new mobile office which can be taken anywhere 
in the UK and includes 25 seats offering our customers total
flexibility in the location of these facilities.
There is significant potential for selling NDR’s services to
Phoenix’s partners and this is an opportunity that increases 
as NDR’s range of services is expanded.
The fire at the Hemel Hempstead fuel depot in December
2005 clearly demonstrated the need for disaster planning and
the value of NDR’s business continuity services. Epson (UK)
Ltd was able to move its head office team into our Uxbridge
facility after their offices were damaged in the initial explosion.
The incident happened on a Sunday morning and NDR were
able to provide the required 150 fully operating work stations,
set up to Epson’s specification to enable Epson to continue to
operate, within 24 hours of the disaster. Commenting on the
quality of service received, Nick Harwood of Epson said, ‘The
flexibility of the NDR site and the helpful attitude of the NDR
staff who genuinely wanted us to be operating at full capacity
as soon as possible, really helped us to put our Business
Continuity Plan in place immediately. We are really grateful 
for their support.’
Business continuity is a growing market driven by regulations
and events such as the July 2005 bombings in London and 
the Hemel Hempstead fire. NDR has benefited from market
expansion and contract wins from competitors during the year.
NDR currently has over 900 disaster recovery positions in
various locations around the country and we believe that this
market offers Phoenix very considerable opportunities for
expansion and growth.
THE FUTURE
In this financial year, we will continue to drive Phoenix IT
Services’ revenues and build growth momentum in NDR. 
We continue to focus on both organic growth and acquisition
opportunities, looking to expand the range of services we offer
and diversify the markets in which we operate.
Nick Robinson
Chief Executive
17 May 2006
