 Annual Report 2008 Aricom plc
10
Chairman’s S
Aricom’s portfolio of assets has seen a number of signiﬁcant 
advances during 2008 and it was therefore disappointing
not to see them reﬂected in the year-on-year share price 
performance which was understandably impacted by the
global economic crisis.
In 2008, we saw our ﬁrst sales revenue at Kuranakh and whilst the
contribution from these early stage sales was not material, the
testing of the Group’s logistics division has been invaluable and has
proved our ability to produce and ship our product to market. I am
conﬁdent that we will be fully commissioned by the end of 2009 at
both the Kuranakh and Olekma plants which will see production of 
two proﬁtable products.
In October, we published the feasibility studies on the combined
K&S and Garinskoye project which showed an attractive investment
return whilst maintaining a maximum funding requirement similar to
that announced a year earlier. This was the culmination of a year’s
work and has been fully independently reviewed. I believe this to
be a credit to the strength of the projects and the Aricom team.
External global market and credit factors have weakened 
perceptions of the global mining sector during the last quarter of 
2008 and in recognition of this new paradigm, we are re-working
the project economic analysis in order to develop a more efﬁcient
funding structure. Pre-concentrate sales at Kuranakh have been 
suspended due to a weakening of demand although demand for 
our ﬁnal products remains strong.
Despite the share price performance over the last quarter, 
I believe that the fundamentals supporting the Aricom investment 
proposition remain strong and that we are arguably better 
positioned than many of our peers, with an enviable cash position
at the start of 2009 of over a quarter of a billion dollars and
no debt.
Due to the current crisis, as with many other mining companies, the
Board of Aricom has reviewed the Company’s portfolio of assets
and has provided for impairment where it is considered appropriate 
to do so. In Aricom’s situation this ﬁgure is material due to the 
sharp economic downturn and movement in the Group’s share
price, particularly versus the Balance Sheet value of the Group’s
assets. Further information on impairment provisions is detailed in
the Financial Review on page 40.
I would like to thank all the people who work within the Group and
to welcome those who joined during 2008.  Whilst we are doing
our utmost to reduce costs, I believe that one of the Company’s 
most valuable assets is our human resource and we will continue to 
grow our key skill base as we move toward positive cash ﬂows. 
With cautious optimism, I believe that Aricom begins 2009 from a 
solid base. We have a strong balance sheet and a number of very 
large deposits, within a full spectrum of mining, development and 
delineation that are situated in close proximity to the border of 
one of the world’s largest growth markets. In the second half of the
year, we will be producing from our Kuranakh project, retaining our 
cost advantages into a local market from where demand for our 
products continues to remain strong.
On 6 February 2009 it was announced that the independent board 
committees of Aricom plc and Peter Hambro Mining plc (‘PHM’) 
had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended merger 
of the two companies by which all of the issued share capital of 
Aricom will be acquired by Peter Hambro Mining. The Independent
Aricom Board Committee considered the merger to represent
an attractive opportunity to Aricom shareholders as it will allow 
them to beneﬁt from (i) an enhanced market position, scale and
growth platform and operational and strategic synergies through 
shared infrastructure of closely located operations; (ii) cashﬂow
from the enlarged group’s portfolio of producing assets which 
would help fund the investment required for Aricom’s longer-term 
development plans; and (iii) the potential for signiﬁcant increase in
value of both Peter Hambro Mining and Aricom. It is intended that 
the merger will be effected by way of a Court sanctioned scheme 
of arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006. The
merger is conditional upon, among other things, certain Russian 
regulatory conditions being fulﬁlled to the reasonable satisfaction 
of both companies, the passing of the necessary resolutions by the 
shareholders of both companies and the sanction of the Court.
It is anticipated that, if the conditions outlined above are fulﬁlled,
the merger will complete in late April. Aricom intends to hold its 
Annual General Meeting after the expected date of completion 
of the merger.  If the merger does not progress as anticipated
the Annual General Meeting may be held before completion 
of the merger, in which case, shareholders will be informed of 
arrangements for the Annual General Meeting.
Dr Pavel Maslovskiy
Chairman
Dr Pavel Maslovskiy, left with Jay Hambro, right
