 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS PHOENIX IT GROUP plc 
02
16013 24/06/09 Proof 6
Our services Portfolio
Phoenix IT Services offers a range of services to its
Partners, all of which can be procured on either
a subcontract, managed or outsourced basis. Our
service portfolio is underpinned by an exceptional
parts and logistics capability which supports the
entire information technology spectrum.
Desktop services – we deliver ﬁ eld-based or site-based support
throughout the lifecycle of the desktop environment.
Network services – supporting a diverse range of LAN/ WAN, data, 
voice and video technologies, we offer a high level of technical skill 
supported by leading Manufacturer accreditations.
High availability services – delivering a comprehensive, multi-
vendor support service to the enterprise data centre environment 
we offer multi-tiered SLAs to reﬂ ect business priorities.
Phoenix IT Services
delivers IT Infrastructure
Services exclusively
through a network of
Partners comprising
the leading names in
the IT Services market.
We provide a comprehensive range of
services to and through our Partners and 
have a number of key contracts spanning 
both the public and private sectors and all 
key vertical segments.
We are committed to delivering service of
the highest quality and the longevity of 
our key partnerships is testament to our 
success. We are certiﬁ ed in all IT service
industry related quality standards and 
have recently been awarded ISO 14000 for 
environmental management.
We strive to preserve and develop our
relationships with Partners through
innovations in both service development 
and service delivery.
16013PHEONIX.indd   02 26/06/2009   10:38 STOCK EXCHANGE CODE: PNX www.phoenixitgroup.com
OUR BUSINESS
OUR PERFORMANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
03
16013 24/06/09 Proof 6
IPT services – with dedicated, specialist resource we can address 
the whole spectrum of IPT support requirements including 
deployment, maintenance and user support.
Specialist support services – comprising highly skilled technical 
developers, experienced project managers and dedicated project 
resource we are able to deliver high quality bespoke services and 
large and small scale project services to our Partners across a wide 
range of technologies. 
Service desk – we offer a ﬁ rst, second and third line service desk
across our range of services to support our partners in delivering 
an excellent user experience.
Remote management – delivered through our own in-house 
tool, Onestream, we are able to offer a range of solutions for 
server, network and environmental monitoring and management.
Working in Partnership
with Atos Origin
Building on the success of the ﬁ eld engineering resource initiative in
place since 2007, Atos Origin selected Phoenix IT Services to deliver their 
on-site engineering requirements to support a wide range of their end 
user customers.
By combining both ﬁ eld and on-site engineering requirements under a single
partnership Atos Origin are able to drive efﬁ ciencies in service delivery and
preserve their excellent customer relations through improved customer 
experience. 
Ongoing efﬁ ciency beneﬁts are derived from Phoenix IT Services’ expertise
in increasing the volume of remote ﬁ xes across the range of incidents raised.
This helps Atos Origin to reduce the costs associated with on-site resource. To
ensure that this does not adversely affect the Customer’s overall quality of 
service experience, Atos Origin and Phoenix IT Services have identiﬁ ed areas
where engineers can be cross trained to maximise availability of technical skills 
and opportunities for utilising the Phoenix extensive ﬁ eld resource during
periods of increased call volumes. 
Phoenix IT Services has been supporting Atos Origin across a number of 
service areas for more than 6 years. This long-term relationship has enabled 
the two companies to develop an integrated approach to service delivery. 
The dedicated Phoenix IT Services call centre team, led by the Partner Services 
Manager, delivers ﬁ rst line support across all services to Atos Origin and
provides management information to help drive a continuous improvement 
approach.
This close working relationship between Phoenix IT Services and Atos Origin on
both an operational and Account Management level enables both organisations
to drive proﬁtable business growth without compromising the high quality
service delivery expected by Atos Origin’s customers.
16013PHEONIX.indd   03 26/06/2009   10:38 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS PHOENIX IT GROUP plc 
04
16013 24/06/09 Proof 6
ICM offer an evolving range of
services providing customers
with the right recovery solution,
delivered at the right price point
for the unique requirement of each
business.
ICM Business Continuity winner of the CIR
Service Provider of the Year Award in 2008,
has further strengthened its position as a
leading UK Business Continuity provider
over the last year.
The combination of this high level of
service delivery and wide range of solutions
delivered from 18 regional facilities
underpins the support of more than 2,200
clients of all sizes and across all business
sectors throughout the UK.
As businesses continue to adopt new
technology and infrastructure to improve
efficiencies and deliver 24x7 availability, ICM
are increasingly working with customers
to provide proactive Continuous Business
solutions to complement the more reactive
Recovery Services traditionally associated
with Disaster Recovery.
Our Services include:
Continuity Planning Advice: Working with customers our
consultants create bespoke yet concise continuity plans that cover 
not only IT but the entire business.
Ship to Site IT Replacement: The rapid dispatch of replacement 
technology to site, along with experienced ICM technicians, in the 
event of a system failure.
16013PHEONIX.indd   04 26/06/2009   10:39 STOCK EXCHANGE CODE: PNX www.phoenixitgroup.com
OUR BUSINESS
OUR PERFORMANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
05
16013 24/06/09 Proof 6
Mobile Data Centres: The provision of a pre-conﬁ gured data
centre environment including generator, UPS and air-conditioning, 
to a customer’s site.
Work Area Recovery: Delivered from 15 UK centres, ICM have 
over 7,500 fully equipped work-area recovery positions. ICM offer 
customers a choice of ofﬁ ce, call centre and dealing work-area
replacement solutions both on a syndicated and dedicated basis.
Data Hosting: Providing a selection of off-site secure data back-
up, online data replication and second site data-centre provision 
for high availability and recovery of servers, applications and 
critical data.
Melton Borough Council
Waking up to ﬁnd head ofﬁce devastated overnight by ﬁre
Dealing with the aftermath of a ﬁre is a daunting and stressful time for any business or
organisation. When you have nearly 50,000 customers relying on you daily for essential
services the potential for disaster is even worse. For Melton Borough Council, waking up
to ﬁnd their head ofﬁce gutted by an early morning ﬁre, it was essential that they could
operate ‘business as normal’ as quickly and efﬁciently as possible – and with ICM Continuity
Services they achieved exactly that.
Essential Planning
Luckily for the residents of Melton Mowbray, Melton Borough Council was quick to 
turn to its business continuity supplier, ICM, to organise alternative accommodation 
for key staff and ensure downtime for the council would be as minimal as possible.
“As events unfolded throughout the morning we were in contact with the council and were
able to invoke the previously agreed business continuity strategy,” explained John Mills,
Service Director, ICM. “We had previously agreed with ofﬁcials at the council on the level of
resource they would need – things such as workstations, networked phone lines, internet access
and suchlike. What was also essential was our ability to provide a top-level facility – a factor
that paid dividends for the council as staff quickly found our East Midlands Business Continuity
Centre provided a home from home experience.”
For Lynn Aisbett, Chief Executive for the Council, this forward planning proved essential. “I
don’t want to think what we would have done should we not have planned for an eventuality
like this. When you are faced with suddenly losing your ofﬁces you have so many things to
do and people to organise you need the help of someone like ICM to absorb a huge part of
the stress – trusting them completely to have a new working premises ready for you straight
away.”
Moving on
With the building now repaired the council is moving back home. “Events such as these
really do bring home to us all the value of those Business Continuity planning strategy
meetings which, at the time, can seem too hypothetical,” says Lynn. “To anyone who doubts
the value of Business Continuity strategies or thinks events like a ﬁre will never happen to them,
you need to think again – without planning and a partner like ICM to be there the moment you
need them the potential for a drama turning into a business fatal crisis is just too risky.”
16013PHEONIX.indd   05 26/06/2009   10:39 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS PHOENIX IT GROUP plc 
06
16013 24/06/09 Proof 6
Servo’s focus is to
work with our clients to
understand their business
and become an integral
part of enabling their
strategy. We strive to
work with our customers
to optimise their total IT
expenditure to facilitate
improved business
information, to drive
revenue, reduce cost,
mitigate risk and improve
overall business efﬁciency.
Our services Portfolio
Servo people have a passion to deliver real business beneﬁ t to
our customers, providing a signiﬁ cant differentiator in a
competitive market place.
By adopting a consultative approach we are able to ensure that we 
fully understand our customers’ core objectives. In collaboration 
with them we can design, build and then implement solutions 
that support their key business drivers. From the initial supply of 
hardware and implementation services through to equipment 
disposal, Servo works with the customer every step of the way.
16013PHEONIX.indd   06 26/06/2009   10:39 STOCK EXCHANGE CODE: PNX www.phoenixitgroup.com
OUR BUSINESS
OUR PERFORMANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
07
16013 24/06/09 Proof 6
Baxi Group
A major European player in heating solutions
Baxi Group is a leading manufacturer and supplier of domestic and commercial water
and space heating systems and services. Employing more than 5,000 people and with a
turnover of £1.2 billion, the Group owns some of Europe’s leading brands in a market
worth over £5.5 billion a year.
In 2007 Baxi standardised its brand presentation, both in its national markets and in its use
of the internet as a marketing channel. Until this point, web usage had been fragmented
among different technologies and standards. Since Baxi’s e-marketing strategy is focused
on customer relationships, the Group needed to raise its proﬁle and underpin its status as a
major player in delivering energy-efﬁcient and environmentally friendly heating solutions.
To achieve its online goals, Baxi decided to host its entire UK and European web services on
a single platform. Acknowledging that its in-house team could not cost-effectively match
the quality of a specialist provider, the Group approached long-term IT partner Servo for a
hosting solution.
A committed strategic partnership
As Baxi’s strategic IT partner in the UK since 2002, Servo has provided a wide range of
hardware, software and networking solutions. The Company is committed to a desktop
replacement programme every three years, with full ongoing support for its client’s entire
UK array of desktops, laptops, servers, peripherals, switches and routers.
Complex relationships brought rapidly to fruition
Implemented within a fortnight of placing the order, the new hosting project involved
four key parties: Baxi Group, Servo, RedDot and Freestyle. Integral to success was
Servo’s tenacity in navigating the complex relationships between all parties. Using the
shared platform, Servo provisioned virtual servers in the hosting environment and
provided secure network access to all project partners. Advanced virtualisation features
guaranteed high availability through dynamic workload balancing and automated
resilience, ensuring continual adherence to a 24x7x365 SLA.
The result was a highly available, resilient and fully managed server platform for the RedDot
Web Content Management System and Baxi’s public-facing web servers hosted at Servo’s
data centre in Leeds.
ThebenefitsforBaxiarecomprehensive,includingagreatercohesivenessinGroupbrand
identity,fasterandmorecost-effectivewebsitedevelopment,highserveravailabilityand
reducedcostsviatheconsolidationofallGroupwebsitesintoasinglehostedenvironment.
Long-term commitment
“It was Servo’s ﬂexibility and commitment that ensured we launched our ﬁrst site on
schedule,” commented Baxi’s IT Development Manager Luke Vanhegan. It is this unfailing
responsiveness that differentiates a mid-market supplier such as Servo from larger players.
Servo understands the needs and goals of smaller enterprises, and builds long-term client
partnerships to support their ongoing demands.
Servo has the capability to manage and run systems either on 
client premises or provide a managed hosted solution on a national 
basis with T3 compliant data centres in Leeds, Birmingham and 
Farnborough. Whether running systems on or off our customers’ 
premises, Servo has a 24x7 help desk capability and a network 
monitoring team that provides extensive and ﬂ exible levels of
tailored support.
Servo’s scale and geographic coverage enables us to address clients 
across the UK in both the private and public sectors with solutions 
tailored to their individual requirements. 
16013PHEONIX.indd   07 26/06/2009   10:39
