 Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
7
Chief Executive’s 
Review
I joined the Group as Chief Executive on 12 March 2014.  
A few days later, the Company successfully raised £8.3m in  
net new money from Shareholders. This was an important 
development for two reasons. Firstly, it strengthened the balance 
sheet. Secondly, the fundraising epitomises a new resolve by the 
Board to commit to a long term improvement strategy. 
I have used my first few months in the Group to review its 
performance thoroughly, assess its strengths and  
weaknesses, and devise a strategy to improve its fortunes.  
A sale or break-up is not the right approach for Phoenix.  
In this review I outline why, and why now is the time  
to implement a new strategy to generate meaningful, 
sustainable and ultimately profitable change. 8 9
Why the Group fits together
The foundation to our strategy must be a clearly  
articulated plan to exploit the capabilities of the Group’s 
three segments - Business Continuity, Managed Services 
and Partner.
The Business Continuity and Managed Services segments 
largely address a similar marketplace: medium-sized 
customers, over 2,300 of them. We define medium-sized 
customers, or the middle market, as customers with 
between 100 and 5,000 IT users. These two segments 
complement each other because both are concerned with 
the converging Cloud-based market. The middle market 
is beginning to adopt the Cloud for infrastructure services, 
provided by Managed Services and at the same time 
Business Continuity is increasingly being provided through 
the Cloud: remote online backup, mirrored data centres and 
so on. According to IDC, spend on Cloud by the middle 
market will grow at over 20% annually. Over time we should 
expect these two segments to fully converge in the Cloud.
The Partner segment adds over £100m of revenue and 
important capabilities to the Group. Partner adds scale to 
our offerings in the other two segments, allowing us credibly 
to offer ‘Enterprise strength IT for the middle market’. Some 
of the skills we currently use in Managed Services can also 
be of value in some of our Partner contracts if deployed 
properly - this is unexploited opportunity.
A strategy that successfully blends the capabilities of these 
three segments has the potential to unlock considerable 
value. That value is not reflected in the current share price. 
In my view this does not represent a fair price for a business 
that has high levels of annuity revenue and a reduced net 
debt position. 
Review findings
In my review of the Group I have been impressed by our 
scale - we have hosting capacity for nearly 2,000 racks in 
our infrastructure. Our service desks across Partner and 
Managed Services combined, took nearly 300,000 calls 
during the year. I have also been impressed by the benefits 
we bring to customers and by what we might be capable of 
doing for them in the future. Despite those positives, there 
has been scant attention paid to the quality of some of our 
delivery, assessment of contract profitability and lack of 
discipline on return on the valuable capital we employed. 
A series of restructurings have left a Group that is overly 
complicated in structure and too diverse in the services 
provided - it needs to better focus.
Two issues come to the fore. The first is the need for stability 
and a long term direction so that the business can develop 
towards a clearly understood objective without constant 
upheaval and distraction. We need a clearly articulated 
strategy. The second is the need to deliver on our promises. 
For too long, there have been disappointments, shortfalls 
and surprises. These have undermined investor confidence 
and the faith of our customers and employees. The Group 
needs to get back to basics and build much stronger 
foundations.
A new strategy
Our strategy makes clear to our customers, investors  
and employees that Phoenix has the offering and capability 
to address the way IT services will develop over the next 
few years. 
We will approach our two channels to market - large 
System Integration partners and medium-sized companies 
& public bodies - by providing services that sit at the heart 
of our customers’ business. We will become an essential 
foundation for their own success. Where we do this and 
work with our customers to develop forward looking, resilient 
infrastructure, we will create the most value. Our mission, 
therefore is:
To become an essential ingredient in our customers’ 
success by providing scalable, resilient, forward looking 
IT managed services.
By being essential to our customers, we will add to those 
who already see us as their trusted adviser. This is the best 
way to maintain strong business and to make increased 
profits based on the quality of the service that we provide. 
Trust, once earned, will also allow us to grow relationships in 
size, and broaden them by selling additional services.
This trust will be earned by responding to the key trends 
in the market as we see them and improving the value 
we deliver to customers. Our Managed Services and 
Business Continuity segments will converge as our middle 
market customers exploit Cloud-based services. In our 
Partner business, we want increasingly to move away 
from headcount-based provision towards service level 
agreements. This will improve retention, profitability and 
competitiveness in this segment.
We need strong foundations to build on, and we need to 
concentrate on the basics to build well. So in this sense 
the message of ‘being essential’ works well for Phoenix IT 
too. The plan for delivering our strategy has this theme 
throughout - focus on the basics, eliminate complexity, 
concentrate investment and resources on the important 
parts of the business. 
Chief Executive’s Review
8 8 9
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
Delivering the strategy
Our plan to implement the strategy of ‘becoming essential’ 
runs for three years. During that time real change and 
improvement can be delivered without looking too far ahead 
in the context of a fast changing market for technology. 
Each of the three years has a distinct focus.
The focus for year 1 will be stability, efficiency and 
quality. Our aim for this period will be to generate cash, 
improve the efficiency and reliability of the business, thereby 
improving its profitability, and to lay the foundations for 
changes to the sales process in year 2. Convergence of 
Managed Services and Business Continuity will only occur if 
we can cross-sell between the two segments, so year 1 will 
also need to prove our abilities here.
The focus for year 2 will be account management and 
standardised services. Account management is the best 
way to achieve cross-selling systematically. To achieve this 
we need a more standardised set of services, making us 
easier to do business with. We will grow the middle market 
business using these standard services, and show good 
examples of converting Business Continuity customers to 
a fuller range of services. Account management will also 
help to move the Partner business away from headcount 
related revenues towards a more compelling service-based 
model. The outcome will be profit growth (not necessarily 
revenue growth) and better cash generation. Return on 
Capital Employed will be a very important metric to show 
that we have an improving infrastructure through which we 
can drive long term profit growth.
The focus for year 3 will be integrated services. With an 
account management model bedded down, we will be able 
to credibly build a business that offers customers greater 
value than our competitors. For example, as the Business 
Continuity and Managed Services segments converge, our 
account management model needs to convert clients to 
additional services in a systematic way. Our proposition of 
Enterprise strength IT for the middle market will emphasise 
those client relationships where we provide a managed 
service for a range of infrastructure requirements, including 
delivery of projects to improve that infrastructure, making 
it more resilient and forward looking. In the same way, our 
Partner business will concern itself more with transformation 
of services when they transfer to us, making them more 
efficient and responsive. 
“Our mission, therefore is: 
To become an essential 
ingredient in our customers’ 
success by providing 
scalable, resilient,  
forward looking IT  
managed services.”
The investment case
In recent years the Phoenix strategy has not been properly 
articulated or carefully implemented. We are now at a point 
where that has to change. There are plenty of opportunities 
to improve and develop from within, and there are trends 
in the market that we can exploit better than many of our 
competitors. It will not be a straightforward or a risk-free 
path, but the potential to create sustainable Shareholder 
value over a three year timeframe is good, based upon a 
strong order book and good use of capital employed and 
a proper use of the strong, complementary fit to our three 
interlinked segments. 
Steve Vaughan
Chief Executive
9 June 2014
“There are plenty of opportunities to improve and develop 
from within, and there are trends in the market, that we can 
exploit better than many of our competitors.”
9 10
 “The key trend in our market 
is the rapid development of 
Cloud-based services.”
Being essential
