 4 5
We keep businesses going
Our Business Continuity business helps customers avoid significant disruption to their business 
when things go wrong - from IT maintenance to loss of a building, we help keep them delivering. 
We help customers create a more resilient business. Our flexible remote working solutions enable 
customer staff to work from virtually any location, uninterrupted.
We make businesses more agile 
Our Managed Services business provides hardware support and helps customers run their 
businesses from wherever and whenever they want to. We implement Cloud-based or virtual 
environments for our customers in the middle market. We provide a complete range of services, 
from the desktop through the network to hosting and the cloud. Few organisations have the 
experience that we do in designing and delivering right-sized solutions.
 
We help our partners deliver more
Our Partner business manages highly complex, business critical IT service processes for our 
partners’ customers, to make them perform better and be more efficient. Our ‘Enterprise strength 
and scale IT solutions’ better manage the difficult, dispersed, manual IT service processes on our 
channel partners’ behalf, optimising and streamlining these processes to create efficiency and 
unlock value.
We are one of the UK’s leading providers of IT infrastructure 
services. We provide essential services to help customers  
run and grow their businesses. From our own teams and  
hubs based in the UK, we deliver services and solutions 
designed to empower our customers to improve and optimise 
day-to-day operational tasks, reduce risk and control costs.
Phoenix at a glance 4 5
Strategic Report Our Financials Our Governance Shareholder Information
We provide our services 
to over 3,300 businesses 
in the UK and have built 
and grown a world-class 
capability that serves 
customers at multiple 
stages of their IT services 
needs. This enables us to 
develop and maintain strong 
and profitable customer 
relationships.
Revenue
£233.4m
(2013: £250.0m)
Business Continuity
Partner
Managed Services
22%
29%
49%
Underlying profit from 
operations
£17.7m
(2013: £19.0m)
Business Continuity Partner
Managed Services
60%
6%
34%
Revenue
£114.4m
(2013: £113.3m)
Revenue
£68.4m
(2013: £84.7m)
Revenue
£50.6m
(2013: £52.0m)
By successfully 
blending the 
capabilities of these 
three areas, we provide 
a seamless IT 
infrastructure service. 6
 “A new strategy to generate 
meaningful, sustainable and 
ultimately profitable change.”
Being essential
