 135 13508 18/07/2007 Proof 7
PHOENIX IT GROUP plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
NICK ROBINSON
Chief Executive
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
“In order to increase the added value we generate, we
are continually seeking to increase both the range and
the depth of the services provided to existing customers,
in addition to attracting new customers or addressing
new sectors of the IT services market.”
SUMMARY OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES
As one of the UK’s leading IT service providers,
the Group provides a growing range of
complementary IT infrastructure support
services including systems management,
communications, remote telephone support,
high-touch field services, project and
consultancy services and business continuity
and disaster recovery services. Often these
services are sold and delivered as a managed
service where we manage complex IT
infrastructures to agreed levels of service under
long-term contracts.
The Group differentiates itself by focusing on
niche customer groups and niche markets.
Phoenix IT Services specialises in supporting
major IT services organisations (‘Partners’) in
support of their customers (‘End Users’). This
strategy allows Phoenix IT Services to access
the largest proportion of spending on IT
Services in the UK which we believe could not
be achieved as efficiently by selling direct to the
largest End Users. Servo sells a similar portfolio
of IT services predominately to the small and
medium size enterprise (‘SME’) market, which is
considered to be the fastest growing area of IT
services in the UK. NDR operates in the
business continuity market, which continues to
grow strongly as a result of increased
awareness of terrorism and disaster risks to
commercial centres following events such as
the 2005 London terrorist attacks and the
Buncefield fuel depot explosion, together with
increased awareness of the need for improved
corporate risk management and demands from
insurers.
In order to increase the added value we
generate, we are continually seeking to increase
both the range and the depth of the services
provided to existing customers, in addition to
attracting new customers or addressing new
sectors of the IT services market. This
continuous development of new services has
been one of our key differentiators and success
factors historically and we believe it will
continue to be so in the future.
Alongside large outsourcing contracts, the
Group’s strategy is to develop niche services,
commanding high margins, and to sell these
services into niche markets, a strategy that is
proving successful. The large and growing
UK market offers significant opportunities for
the Group and the Board believes that a
continuing focus on the UK for the foreseeable
future will best maximise the growth potential
of the Group.
PHOENIX IT SERVICES
The underlying performance of the Group’s UK
‘Partner’ business has been encouraging. Despite
the ongoing effect of two significant changes to
contract revenue during the year, the order book
grew strongly year-on-year to £152.7m
representing an 18.9% increase from 2006 and
the annual contract value increased by 8.1% to
£77.1m. Phoenix IT Services won new contracts
throughout the year with significant contract
awards from a wide range of Partners, including
our portfolio of offshore service provider Partners.
It is particularly pleasing to be able to report that
new contracts with key mid-range equipment
vendors were won during the year with one
transferring 96 engineers under TUPE to Phoenix
IT Services, thereby outsourcing its entire field
engineering function. We have continued to
expand in the growing area of Voice over Internet
Protocol Telephony (VoIP), and have entered into
contracts with Partners to provide VoIP-related
services to two major UK organisations. Also, for
the first time, contracts were won supporting
complete data centres. The business continues to
develop its service offerings in these areas.
Service delivery quality remained consistently
high at 98%, providing a solid platform for
growth. Phoenix IT Services became one of
the first businesses in the UK to be accredited
to the new ISO 20000 standard: IT Service
Management Specification. ISO 20000 is an
integrated framework for delivering and
managing IT services to the customer. The
10
13508PHOENIX:Layout 1  26/7/07  07:53  Page 10 11
PHOENIX IT GROUP plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
13508 18/07/2007 Proof 7
standard is based on the best practice of the
IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL) and the
accreditation is an important platform for the
ongoing maintenance of the high service
standards.
Our small French operation, which focuses on
IT industry partners and the mid-range
equipment areas, has continued to develop over
the period and is both modestly profitable and
cash generative.
NDR
NDR provides consultancy advice, real time data
backup, office and mobile facilities, computer
equipment and support for customers in case of
disaster or major business interruption. NDR
has performed very strongly since its
acquisition in 2005. During the year the
business has successfully developed a strategy
for targeting larger opportunities in addition to
the SME market where it already has an
excellent reputation, resulting in an increase in
the average contract value of new business
wins and a major three-year contract with a
FTSE 100 company. To support this growth and
facilitate further expansion, NDR has made a
number of infrastructure investments during the
year including a new East Midlands disaster
recovery (DR) facility utilising available space in
an existing Phoenix building, the doubling in
size of the City of London DR facility and the
commissioning of a new mobile unit, enabling
service to be provided to the more remote parts
of the UK.
SERVO
Servo was acquired in November 2006 to
enable the Group to sell IT services to the fast
growing SME market. Since acquisition the
management team of this business has been
strengthened by the appointment of a new
Finance Director and a new Sales & Marketing
Director. Servo continues to evolve away from
product sales to services, which accounted for
48% of revenues in the year ended 31 March
2006, and 53% in the year ended 31 March
2007. Servo has met our expectations to date.
RECOMMENDED OFFER FOR ICM
Since the year end the Group has made a
recommended offer for ICM Computer Group plc.
We believe there is a strong strategic logic for
the combination of Phoenix and ICM. In
particular, given the complementary nature of
disaster recovery, business continuity and IT
solutions and support services, we believe that
the combination and integration of the two
businesses will provide the potential to exploit a
significant opportunity in the market for the
provision of IT support and disaster recovery
services. We already have significant experience
in growing the Group both organically and
through acquisition and believe that the
acquisition of ICM will be earnings enhancing
(before amortisation of intangible assets and
one-off integration costs) in the first full
financial year following completion of the
acquisition.
1
As described in the Offer Document posted to
ICM Shareholders on 27 April 2007, the First
Closing Date of the Offer is 3.00 p.m. on
25 May 2007 and an Extraordinary General
Meeting will be held at which approval will be
sought from Phoenix Shareholders for, among
other things, the acquisition. The Extraordinary
General Meeting will be held at 9.00 a.m. on
25 May 2007 at the offices of UBS Limited at
1 Finsbury Avenue, London EC2M 2PP.
NICK ROBINSON
Chief Executive
18 May 2007
1
This statement regarding earnings enhancement does not constitute a profit forecast nor should it
be interpreted to mean that earnings per share of Phoenix for the current or future years will
necessarily match or exceed the historical published earnings per share of Phoenix or ICM.
13508PHOENIX:Layout 1  26/7/07  07:53  Page 11
