 11
•
Phoenix IT Services
•
ICM Continuous Business
•
Servo 
14771 14/07/2008 Proof 7
Overview
The past year has seen Phoenix IT Group move to a new level
following the acquisition of ICM at the end of May 2007 and the
acquisition of Servo which completed in November 2006. During
the year , we began the process of integrating these recently
acquired companies, together with other Group Companies, into
larger , more competitive business units focused on discrete market
sectors. We have also worked on introducing a new operating
model that leverages the benefits of scale of the enlarged Group.
This integration process is currently being implemented and will be
materially complete by the autumn of 2008. 
We have also had a successful year financially. For the year ended
31 March 2008 Group profit before tax (before non-recurring items
and amortisation of acquired intangibles) grew by 20.2% to
£25.6m
1
(2007: £21.3m) on Group revenues of £230.8m (2007:
£126.7m), an increase of 82.1%. 
Success factors in this growth and operational performance have
included a focus on servicing the needs of our customers;
operational precision; introduction of new and innovative services;
and tight cost controls that help us quote for new business more
accurately and keenly. 
The Markets the Group Serves
With effect from 1 April 2008 the Group moved from five operating
units to three customer facing divisions — ICM Continuous Business
(Business Continuity), Phoenix IT Services (Partner Services) and
Servo (Mid-Market) — supported by Shared Operations and
Corporate Services. 
Structural overview and the integration process
Following the ICM acquisition, the Group has undertaken a
thorough integration review and planning exercise and the
resulting integration programme is in the process of being
executed. 
 ICM Continuous Business (Business Continuity)
The Business Continuity Division, comprising Network Disaster
Recovery (‘NDR’) and the Business Continuity business of ICM,
will be branded ICM Continuous Business. The two businesses
coming together create a powerful force in the UK business
continuity market with 15 purpose built centres, over 7 ,500
recovery positions, extensive Mobile and IT recovery capabilities,
and over 2,100 customers. The customer bases of the two
businesses are complementary, with ICM having greater high
end market penetration compared to NDR’s mid-market
strength. This element of the integration plan will be
substantially complete by the end of June 2008.
 Phoenix IT Services (Partner Services)
Phoenix IT Services continues to focus on delivering a wide
range of IT support services to typically large end users through
partners. 
 Servo (Mid-Market) 
Servo and ICM’s Managed Availability Services business are
being merged resulting in a significant operation enjoying
increased scale benefits focused on providing IT solutions and
services to a large mid-market customer base. From 1 April
2008, this division has been branded Servo. This element of the
integration is under way and it is envisaged that it will be
substantially complete by the end of Autumn 2008.
 The Group is also in the process of establishing a centralised
operational shared services unit which will undertake
activities (for example, logistics) on behalf of the three
operating divisions to maximise operational efficiencies.
Existing activities are being progressively transferred from the
individual business units to the shared services centre. This is
expected to be substantially complete by the end of Autumn
2008. 
The integration process is delivering a number of cost synergies for
the enlarged Group, including:
 a reduction in the number of sites from which the business
continuity division will provide services. Two sites in High
Wycombe are in the process of being closed and the contracts
will be transferred to other recovery centres; the two sites in
Bristol have been combined; and the Darlaston, West Midlands
facility is in the process of being combined with the NDR head
office in Aston, Birmingham;
 greater operating efficiencies derived from the creation of
larger units throughout the UK which will have a greater
density of coverage; and 
 increased procurement and productivity gains arising from
the combination of the Group’s respective logistics operations
and support functions. 
During the year the Group incurred a total of £6.4m of non-
recurring items of which £4.3m has been a cash expense. £5.5m of
the non-recurring items incurred during the year relate to the
integration project and it is anticipated that a further £4.6m will be
incurred during the next 12 months. The project has yielded cost
synergies of £1.7m during the year and it is anticipated that further
cost synergies of £5.5m will be achieved in the financial year to
March 2009. 
ICM Continuous Business (Business Continuity)
The ICM Continuous Business division serves the business
continuity and disaster recovery market and for the year ended 
31 March 2008 combined revenues were £42.0m (2007: £18.8m)
with an operating profit of £8.9m (2007: £4.9m). The Business
Continuity business of ICM has been part of the Group for 10
months of this financial year .
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
14771PHOENIX:Layout 4  15/7/08  11:15  Page 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
continued
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Stock Exchange Code: PNX www.phoenixitgroup.com
12
Phoenix IT Group plc
1477 14771 14/07/2008 Proof 7
The merging of ICM and NDR creates a critical mass business
providing a national network of business recovery centres that are
well placed in relation to our target customer groups, with each
centre equipped to meet the needs of our customers. The quality of
our proposition and service offering has been recognised at the
recent Business Continuity Annual Awards Ceremony which was
held on 8 May 2008 where we received a number of awards
including Service Provider of the Year .
Acquired in 2005, NDR provides business continuity and disaster
recovery services, targeting predominantly small and medium sized
enterprise (‘SME’) customers. The company has built a strong
reputation in this sector which it services effectively with
consultancy services, real time data back-up, office and mobile
facilities and support in the case of disaster or major business
interruption. There has been continued investment in infrastructure
to create additional work area and data centre capacity at the
existing NDR Aston and Uxbridge facilities. 
The Business Continuity business of ICM provides services to a wide
range of customers and in June 2007 acquired a lease on a
100,000 sq ft facility in Farnborough, Hampshire, and has
subsequently signed two major contracts for the facility as
previously announced, with values of £8.4m over 7 years and
£12.0m over 3 years.
Combining the ICM and NDR customer bases has given us
extensive penetration of the large enterprise and SME sectors
providing us with a solid platform for growth and the knowledge
and expertise to accelerate business progress.
Phoenix IT Services (Partner Services)
Our Partner Services business targets large enterprise scale
customers through IT services companies (‘Partners‘). Against a
market background of increased competition and commoditisation,
our revenues exceeded £100m (2007: £91.5m) for the first time,
representing double digit growth year on year , and delivered £17 .8m
(2007: £17 .6m) of operating profit. Operating margins for the year
were 17 .2% (2007: 19.2%) and management believe the division’s
margin is broadly sustainable at this level due to increased
economies of scale, low cost of sale and operational innovation. 
The performance of this division and in particular the decline in the
operating margin reflects the material contribution of a large, high
margin contract in the prior year . This contract did not contribute
materially in the financial year under review. The underlying
business has progressed significantly and is now well positioned for
the future. The move away from reliance on a small number of very
large contracts is both reflective of changes in the market and a
determination to create a more stable and predictable base for this
business.
We performed well in all sectors in which our Partner business
competes: our system support business exhibited annual growth of
12%, managed services grew by 22%, projects by 23% and network
services by 9% giving overall growth of 12.6%. 
Our engagement with established partners has also progressed
well during the year . Service quality has remained high and we
continue to meet overall customer service SLA’s. 
We measure on-going cost performance in all phases of service
delivery in order to find ways to improve efficiencies and protect
margins. Cost is only one element of competition; differentiating
our offer is another and considerable effort has been devoted to
creating innovative new services, with good results. For example,
we have introduced OneStream, an integrated remote monitoring
system. Similarly, we have developed a web based password reset
tool to enable users to reset their own passwords securely. After a
successful pilot, we aim to scale-up the product in preparation for
wider distribution. 
Established in 1979, Phoenix has grown
consistently with a reputation for high
quality service levels.
1979 March 2004
Phoenix shares were admitted to the
official list.
November 2004
THE PHOENIX JOURNEY
Phoenix acquired Trend — an
independent network services provider
in the United Kingdom.
14771PHOENIX:Layout 4  15/7/08  11:15  Page 12 13
•
Phoenix IT Services
•
ICM Continuous Business
•
Servo 
14771 14/07/2008 Proof 7
“We are confident that we have the
right strategy and structure in place
for the enlarged Group to deliver value
to our customers and to achieve
sustainable profitable growth.”
Jeremy Stafford, Chief Executive
Our small French operation which delivers services to IT industry
partners continued to grow by replicating the proven UK partner
model. The French operation continues to be profitable. 
Servo (Mid-Market)
The Servo division comprises the Servo business, which was
acquired by the Group in November 2006, and ICM Managed
Availability Services (for 10 months). Combined revenues for the
year ended 31 March 2008 were £85.9m (2007: £16.4m) and
operating profit was £9.0m (2007: £1.7m). 
The Servo division provides customers with a complementary and
extended range of services together with improved geographical
coverage. 
The Servo business saw improving performance quarter on quarter
and posted a very strong end to the year , reflecting both an
improvement in Servo’s business mix and healthy new business
generation. 
ICM Managed Availability Services has a strong technical capability
and this has thrived within the business development culture of the
Group. ICM has been developing its hosting capabilities and has
3,000 m
2
of hosting space which is nearly all sold as a result of
strong market demand. A further 1,000 m
2
of data centre space is
under construction for 2008/9 with an anticipated commission
date of August 2008.
Strategy 
We are confident that we have the right Group strategy in place to
deliver value to our customers and to achieve sustainable,
profitable growth. Each of our three operating divisions benefits
directly from being part of the wider Group, leveraging our shared
operation and corporate services capability as well as opportunities
to cross-sell between divisions and to sell a wider portfolio of
services to individual customers. In addition, as we plan for the
longer term growth of the Group, we have established a strong
modular structure which can be expanded with the addition of
service lines and further acquisitions, as appropriate. 
The Board believes that a continuing focus on the UK will maximise
the performance of the Group for the foreseeable future. 
Outlook
This has been a transformational year for the Group in which we
have made very good progress with the integration of ICM as well
as delivering a strong set of results. We are confident that we have
the right strategy and structure in place for the enlarged Group to
deliver value to our customers and to achieve sustainable profitable
growth. 
We have achieved good momentum into the current financial year
and, in spite of continuing macro economic uncertainties, we
remain positive about the outlook for the current year and beyond. 
Jeremy Stafford
Chief Executive
14 May 2008
1
Profit before tax £22.0m (2007: £19.3m) plus amortisation of
acquired intangibles £3.6m (2007: £2.0m).
Phoenix acquired Network Disaster
Recovery (NDR) — one of the UK‘s
leading providers of business continuity
and disaster recovery solutions for
customers seeking to protect their
business critical systems.
April 2005
Phoenix acquired Servo — a leading
independent provider of a wide range of
IT support services and associated
products predominantly to Small and
Medium size Enterprises (SME’s) in both
the private and public sectors
throughout the UK.
November 2006
Phoenix acquired ICM Computer Group
Limited, enhancing our scale and
capability in both business continuity
and IT support services to SME’s.
May 2007
14771PHOENIX:Layout 4  15/7/08  11:15  Page 13
