 04 Photo-Me International plc 
Annual Report 2005
Chief executive’s review
Chief executive’ s review
p
“I am confident that PMI has good opportunities 
for sustained profitable growth.” 05 Photo-Me International plc 
Annual Report 2005
Chief executive’s review
In my 2004 Chief Executive’s Review, I said that the year
to 30 April 2004 represented a turning point in PMI’s
history. The Board’s financial objectives had been
exceeded in an outstanding year and beyond its initial
expectations. Additionally, PMI’s product platform had
put PMI in a unique position to continue to benefit from
the digital revolution.
Happily, in the year to 30 April 2005, my confidence was
vindicated. The financial upwards momentum has been
maintained, with increases in adjusted pre-tax profit and
earnings per share of over 50% to figures which are a
record by a wide margin and ahead of market
expectations. Vending produced a solid performance,
increasing its contribution to profit, further upgrading its
operating equipment, and extending its service offer.
Manufacturing had an excellent year, in particular the
minilab business in its first full year of manufacture by a
sub-contractor in Poland, and also the Imaging Solutions
wholesale lab business in Switzerland.
Perhaps of considerable relevance for the future of
Vending was the encouraging start achieved by PMI’s
Digital Media Kiosks, in particular in France. Subsequent
to the year-end, production was transferred to a sub-
contractor in China, thereby reducing costs significantly.
The volume roll-out of Chinese manufactured Digital
Media Kiosks has recently begun. 
PMI has a unique Vending network and a unique
Manufacturing product range which will be
supplemented in the next year or so by a new generation
of digital minilab. PMI’s digital imaging market is
substantial, fast growing and changing to PMI’s
advantage. I am therefore confident that PMI has good
opportunities for sustained profitable growth.
Business review
Continental Europe, which includes the great majority of
the Manufacturing turnover, contributed 60% (2004:
59%) of Group turnover and, again, substantially all of
pre-tax profit. 
In the UK and Ireland, the result has been depressed by a
small reduction in profits from operating divisions, by an
increase in Head Office overheads, and by a decrease in
both profit on foreign exchange and other income.
The improved profitability in Asia – which is primarily
Japan – mainly resulted from a reduction in depreciation,
old technology photobooths having been fully
depreciated by 30 April 2004.
As the table below indicates, the 7.3% increase in Group
turnover was the net of a small decrease in Vending and
a 24.8% increase in Manufacturing. Vending accounted
for 58% (2004: 64%) of Group turnover.
Although the Board believes that detailed disclosure of
the results of the individual activities could be prejudicial
to the Group’s commercial interests, certain trends are
commented on below.
Vending
The Vending business comprises the operation of
photobooths and other vending equipment. During the
year, the total number of Vending sites worldwide
increased by approximately 2,000 to 28,000, including
some 20,000 photobooths. PMI is a global company,
operating in 20 countries, with three major Vending
territories: France, the UK and Ireland, and Japan – in all
of which it continues to enjoy a leading market position.
Globally, the turnover of the Vending Division, whose
photobooth operations are mature, decreased by 2.4%. 
Its contribution to profits, however, improved and it again
generated substantial cashflow.
Geographical analysis of turnover and profit
Turnover Pre-tax profit
†
2005 2004 Variance 2005 2004 
Year to 30 April £m £m %£m £m
Continental Europe 141.5 130.8 +8.2 30.6 17.3
UK & Republic of Ireland 60.9 54.0 +12.6 0.3 2.7
Asia and Australia 30.8 31.2 –1.4 3.0 1.1
USA 2.8 3.9 –29.1 – (0.3)
236.0 219.9 +7.3 33.9 20.8
†before exceptional items
Divisional analysis of turnover
2005 2004 Variance
Year to 30 April £m £m %
Vending 138.0 141.4 –2.4
Manufacturing 98.0 78.5 +24.8
236.0 219.9 +7.3 06 Photo-Me International plc 
Annual Report 2005
Chief executive’s review
Geographical Analysis
Vending turnover in France (with 9,300 sites, including
5,900 photobooths, of which 98% are digital) increased
by 1%. The increase in the number of sites, from 8,500
last year, reflects the siting of Digital Media Kiosks.
Demand for ID photographs in France will be boosted by
the planned introduction of photo-identity on personal
National Health cards, resulting in 48 million replacement
cards from calendar 2006.
Vending turnover in the UK and Ireland (with 9,300 sites,
including 5,600 photobooths, of which 78% are digital)
was flat. The increase of 1,000 sites over the year mainly
reflects expansion in the area of kiddie rides.
Vending turnover in Japan (with 4,700 sites, including
4,600 photobooths) decreased by 5% despite a 12%
increase in the number of machines and an increase in
the proportion of digital machines from 72% to 84%.
Despite the reduction in turnover, profits in Japan have
increased. During the year, the maintenance workforce
was reduced by one-third, reducing annual costs by
£1.5m. The Japanese Government announced during the
year that ID photographs will play an integral part in the
new generation of passports to be introduced in March
2006. These two developments are expected to improve
Japan’s profitability.
Digital Media Kiosks
Following successful trials, mainly in Continental Europe,
the roll-out of Digital Media Kiosks commenced in May
2004. Digital Media Kiosks are capable of printing from
both digital cameras and digital camera phones. By the
year end, 3,000 had been manufactured; 1,600 had been
sold and 1,400 were operated by PMI, of which 1,000 in
France. T o date, results have been encouraging.
The manufacture in China of thermal (i.e. dry process)
Digital Media Kiosks commenced in May 2005 and by 
31 December 2005 it is planned that 5,000 of these will
be in operation or sold. The move of production to China
reduces the cost of Digital Media Kiosks significantly
whilst improving a number of features.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing turnover primarily derives from the 
sale to third parties of photo-processing equipment
manufactured by PMI or, increasingly, by sub-contractors
located in low cost territories. PMI has a unique and
comprehensive range covering all market segments, 
from wholesale labs, via professional and retail labs, to
end-consumer vending kiosks. In output terms,
processing labs range from 250 to 20,000 prints per hour.
This Division increased its turnover by 24.8% in the full
year; in the second half, the increase was 40.5%.
Manufacturing contributed the bulk of the Group profit
and its increase.
Wholesale Labs
Imaging Solutions’ wholesale lab business was acquired 
in April 2003 and comfortably repaid its purchase price 
in the first year of ownership. Based near Zurich in
Switzerland, Imaging Solutions is involved in the
development, manufacture, sale and technical support 
of equipment and systems for high volume photo-
finishing laboratories (up to 20,000 prints per hour). 
In the year, Imaging Solutions increased its turnover by
16.9% to £15.9m and made another useful profit. An
increased contribution is anticipated in the current year.
Professional Labs
A substantial majority of Manufacturing turnover is
represented by sales of the DKS 15xx range of minilabs.
Their success reflects their quality, as evidenced by the
award of the DIMA minilab prize at the Photo Marketing
Association (PMA) Convention and T rade Show in
Orlando, Florida in February 2005, uniquely for a third
successive year. These minilabs have an output of 800 
to 1,500 prints an hour.
In the year, unit sales of minilabs increased by 40%. 
A significant proportion of the growth was in relation to
contracts signed in September 2004 and November 2004
with T esco, the UK’s largest retailer, and Klick, the UK’s
largest independent photo-processing retailer,
respectively. Margins benefited from the full year effect
of the move of production to PMI’s sub-contractor in
Poland, Flextronics, in January 2004. 
T rialling of PMI’s minilabs in North America continues
satisfactorily.  07 Photo-Me International plc 
Annual Report 2005
Chief executive’s review
Retail Labs
PMI’s retail lab is the DKS 900, the world’s first thermal
digital minilab, capable of printing from 250 to 1,000
prints per hour. Its compactness, reliability, ease of use
and price make it particularly suited for offering a digital
printing capability in a small retail environment.
The first deliveries of the DKS 900 were made in 
August 2004. An increased rate of sale is expected in 
the current year.
Consumer Labs
Digital Media Kiosks provide vending machine
convenience for digital camera and camera-phone
customers.
Manufacture of Digital Media Kiosks in Grenoble, France
ceased in April 2005 and commenced at a sub-contractor
in Shanghai, China in May 2005.
The digital imaging market
PMI believes that it enjoys a strong position in a
substantial and fast growing market which is developing
to its advantage:
– The installed base of digital cameras is expected shortly
to exceed that of analogue equipment;
– The installed base of camera phones is rising fast, 
as is the average of the megapixels offered, improving
the quality of photographs taken;
– Home printing is fast losing market share, for reasons
mainly of cost, quality and convenience; and
– Digital photographers are printing an increasing
proportion of the photographs that they take.
PMI is positioned optimally to exploit these trends:
– PMI benefits from a unique vending infrastructure 
of 28,000 sited machines worldwide, with related
arrangements for maintenance and cash collection. 
This network greatly facilitates the roll-out of Digital
Media Kiosks; 
– PMI is the only manufacturer globally to offer a
comprehensive digital range, covering the entire
spectrum of client needs with an outstanding and
recognised quality at realistic pricing points, for both
customers and the Group;
– PMI has only two significant competitors to its minilab
manufacturing business and only one competitor,
currently in receivership, for its wholesale lab
manufacturing business;
– PMI has two products of particular potential: the Digital
Media Kiosk, whose volume roll-out of lower cost,
Chinese-manufactured models has recently commenced,
and the next generation of DKS minilab, which is
expected to be available in the middle of calendar 2006;
and
– PMI, with its long track record of technical innovation,
has the capability to develop further market-leading
products.
Strategic objectives
PMI has reached a stepping-stone: financially, with its 
net cash balance and strong cash generation, and
commercially, with its extensive Vending network,
principally imaging-based, and proven and
comprehensive digital imaging manufacturing range.
PMI intends to use its financial strength to grow
organically and through acquisitions. 
In Vending, PMI intends to leverage its infrastructure and
extend its product range beyond photobooths, increasing 
its relevance to key site owners.
In Manufacturing, PMI intends to strengthen its footprint
and commercial network with a view to obtaining a
substantial and rewarding share of the world market for
digital photo-processing equipment. 
Serge Crasnianski
Chief Executive Officer 08 Photo-Me International plc 
Annual Report 2005
Vending
PMI, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Nippon Auto-
Photo K.K., has been successfully operating in Japan for
over 43 years. Throughout this period, it has been the
market leader in the coin-operated photobooth market.
The 4,600 photobooths operated by Nippon Auto-
Photo throughout Japan are used year after year by 
many millions of customers who prefer our technology
and photographic quality to those of our Japanese
competitors.
Nippon Auto-Photo will increase the number of
photobooths it operates to more than 6,000 within 
the next two years.
Our thinking
p 09 Photo-Me International plc 
Annual Report 2005
Vending
Over the last two years, Nippon Auto-Photo has been
assembling its new ND30 and ND50 photobooths in
Japan, making good use of PMI’s technology and
manufacturing expertise and taking advantage of the
fact that the main components are developed and
manufactured by leading Japanese companies.
The ND30 and ND50 photobooths have a printing speed
of 19 seconds (the fastest on the market) and offer four
different sizes of ID photographs, an exciting range of
fun photographs and, in the near future, printing from
digital cameras and camera phones.
is releasing the potential in Japan 10 Photo-Me International plc 
Annual Report 2005
Vending
Our UK aim
p
PMI, with its ever-evolving and ever-expanding range of
equipment, is able to meet the most demanding needs.
In the UK, PMI is often viewed as a one-stop solution for
retailers’ vending product requirements.
Our long term experience of working with our 
site-owners, our nationwide coverage and our advanced
communications and service support systems, combine 
to ensure that our equipment operates at maximum
efficiency. 11 Photo-Me International plc 
Annual Report 2005
Vending
is to broaden our position 
in the marketplace
Building on our position as the number one operator 
of photobooths, PMI’s intentions are to also establish
itself as the market leader in the operation of both 
digital photo printing kiosks and children’s rides. Offering the only stand-alone digital media kiosk 
vending equipment, PMI is well positioned to 
consolidate its position in the rapidly growing digital
photo-printing market.
1,400 Digital Media Kiosks were operated by the 
Group by April 2005. 1,000 of these are located in 
France and have generated encouraging revenues.
12 Photo-Me International plc 
Annual Report 2005
Vending
Our digital technology
p The latest range of Digital Media Kiosks will be the main
driver behind expansion of the Group’s worldwide
Vending operations.
5,000 of the second-generation Digital Media Kiosks are
to be supplied for operation by the Group, or for sale, by
December 2005.
13 Photo-Me International plc 
Annual Report 2005
Vending
is facilitating future growth 14 Photo-Me International plc 
Annual Report 2005
Manufacturing
Our equipment
p
Minilabs with digital capabilities are in demand as
customers realise the quality and convenience of having
their digital images printed as “real” photographs.
This demand has fuelled the growth in the Manufacturing
division, as major supermarkets such as T esco and large
independents like Klick start to see real growth in their
photographic print business after the recent years of
declining film sales. 15 Photo-Me International plc 
Annual Report 2005
Manufacturing
is making inroads in the high street
The profile of the digital camera user has also seen some
changes in recent years, with the main user now being
the female within the family. This market segment is more
likely to use conventional methods of printing their
photos, which in turn, has lead to an increase in digital
prints purchased at “high street” processors. The last year
has seen a 300% increase in digital photos printed at
retail outlets compared to only a 37% increase in digital
photos printed at home.
The high street is not, however, just about minilabs.
Kiosks that act as the interface between the customer
and the minilab allow the customer to select which
images to print and their size, and can even turn them 
into fun gifts such as calendars and greetings cards. 16 Photo-Me International plc 
Annual Report 2005
Manufacturing
Our R&Dp
Research and Development is the “cornerstone” from
which the Group’s success has been built.  Every year,
more than 7% of Manufacturing turnover is devoted 
to R&D.
Comprising more than 80 engineers and technicians who
are at the forefront of a complex mix of technologies,
including optics, digital, photographic film and chemistry,
software and hardware,  the R&D team has kept the
Group at the cutting edge of innovation. 17 Photo-Me International plc 
Annual Report 2005
Manufacturing
is consistently producing results
Constant development and improvement of our
technology has enabled us to maintain a “winning”
position in this competitive industry.
This achievement has been recognised by the industry, in
the form of the DIMA award. This award is presented by
the Photo Marketing Association at its annual show in the
USA, where all manufacturers are judged anonymously by
a panel of experts; looking at print criteria such as flesh
tones, saturation and image detail. PMI is proud to be 
the winner of this prestigious award for the past three
consecutive years – a record never before achieved by 
a minilab manufacturer. 18 Photo-Me International plc 
Annual Report 2005
Manufacturing
Our progress
p
Our photo processing equipment ranges from our fastest
minilab, which produces 1,500 prints per hour, to our
wholesale labs, which work at 20,000 prints per hour, 
and more. This past year has seen the introduction of our
new fastPrint 20 which outputs at over 20,000 images
per hour at a high resolution of 300 dpi. 19 Photo-Me International plc 
Annual Report 2005
Manufacturing
is keeping our machines the fastest
f fastScan 20
Capable of processing more than 22,000 images 
per hour, the fastScan 20 is the world’s fastest digital
scanner of 35mm and APS films.
f fastPrint 20 
Generating high quality colour prints at speeds in 
excess of 20,000 per hour, the fastPrint 20 is one 
of the fastest digital printers in the world.
