 2002 was a challenging year for our industry and for ARM. 
The strength of our Partnership business model and the
passion and commitment of our employees, however, enabled
us to finish 2002 a significantly stronger company than at the
end of the previous year.
6 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Partnerships 
Our Partnerships continue to be a key ingredient in our
commercial success. During 2002, we signed 33 new
Partners and 70 new licences: 46 multi-use licences and
24 per-use licences. Of the 33 new Partners signed
during the year, 23 took per-use licences through our
Foundry Programme. At the end of 2002, we had 108
semiconductor Partners compared with 77 at the end 
of 2001. 
In the fourth quarter of the year, US-based company
Flextronics, one of the world’s largest providers of
electronics manufacturing services, became the first
licensee in our new Approved Licensing Programme. 
This enables Flextronics to sub-license ARM products 
as part of a wider design services offering.
Significant opportunities exist to license our technology
to new Partners and to license new technology to our
existing Partners; for example, in the fourth quarter 
we announced that LSI Logic, Qualcomm and Texas
Instruments were among the first five licensees 
of the ARM1136J-S processor, the first core from 
the ARM11 microarchitecture, based on the ARMv6
architecture. In addition to licensing products on a per-
use basis, we also license non-Central Processing Units
(CPUs), which include hardware platforms, application
software, models and peripherals, to new and existing
Partners.
The revenue from the licensing of non-CPU technology
increased during the year to £12.6 million, compared
with £11.9 million in the previous year. The PrimeXsys
TM
Platform, which we launched in 2001, and which
enables licensees to improve the time-to-market of their
application solutions, had been licensed to four Partners
by the end of 2002. During the year, we also announced
the availability of the PrimeXsys Dual Core Platform,
which is primarily for use in networking applications.
In 2002, the proportion of licence revenues earned from
existing Partners increased to 89%, from 80% in 2001,
and, as our Partner base grows and the number of
available products extends, our ability to sign upgrade
and derivative licences will increase.
The Foundry Programme
Our Foundry Programme, which we introduced in 2000,
continued to expand. Under this Programme, we make
our technology available to small “fabless” companies
(companies which do not have the facility to fabricate
silicon), by licensing it on a per-use basis. The fabless
companies then have their chips manufactured by 
one of our Foundry Partners. During the year, four 
more foundries joined the Programme, making a 
total of seven. 
Our first per-use licensee began shipping ARM Powered
®
devices in the first quarter of 2002; by the end of the
year the number of per-use licensees shipping product
had increased to six. Four of our 19 cores which are
available for multi-use licensing have been introduced
into the Foundry Programme.
When we established the Programme, we envisaged
that some per-use licensees would upgrade to multi-use
licences and, to date, four have done so.
The Programme’s lower up-front licence fees, but 
higher per-unit royalties, have attracted a large number
of Partners and have, therefore, increased the number 
of licences sold without having an adverse impact on
the pricing of our multi-use licences.
Royalties and unit shipments
During 2002, our semiconductor Partners shipped a total
of 456 million ARM core-based devices, earning total
royalty revenues of £26.8 million. Royalty revenues are
affected by many factors, including the number of ARM Partners shipping and the mix of core-based chips being
sold; the newer cores tend to generate higher per-unit
payments. Of all the ARM core-based chips sold, 93%
have been based on ARM7 technology but, as royalties
are earned on more recent ARM9, ARM10 and ARM11
core-based chips, we expect the average royalty per
chip to increase. In the longer term, chips sold by per-
use licensees will have a positive impact on the average
royalty rate, reflecting the different business model
deployed in the Foundry Programme.
Royalties are now being earned from products being
shipped in all target end markets – automotive,
consumer entertainment, imaging, mass storage,
microcontrollers, networking, secure and wireless. 
The wireless market, in which we include personal
organisers, continued to be the largest contributor to
royalty revenues, accounting for approximately 64%
(11% of total revenues). 
Development Systems
After a very strong start to the year, sales of
Development Systems slowed and ended the year at
£23.1 million, marginally down on the £23.3 million
reported in 2001. Encouragingly, however, sales of the
RealView
®
Development Solution, which is an important
indicator of the level of ARM technology-based
development activity, were up year on year. The
RealView Development Solution provides a complete
software development solution for creating applications
based on our architecture.
We expect our recently-introduced RealView tools to
have a positive effect on sales in 2003. Revenues from
the sales of Development System products illustrate the
global reach of the ARM
®
architecture: 40% are sold in
East Asia, 31% in Europe and 29% in the US; 30% of
these were sold through our network of distributors.
Product development
Research and development continues to be high on our
agenda. ARM was built on innovation and the new and
exciting products we develop will be the key to our
future success. Our objective is to deliver competitive
advantage to our Partners in all the end markets they
target. In 2002, our investment in research and
development increased by 25%, to £48.7 million, 
and represented 32% of sales.
In the fourth quarter of 2002, we made the first
deliveries of the ARM1136J-S core, which is designed 
to meet the low-power needs of battery-powered and
high-density embedded applications, and is ideal for
innovative applications in networking, wireless,
automotive and consumer entertainment.
I congratulate the engineers who worked on the
development of the ARM1136JF-S core, which was
recently voted IP Processor of 2002, by the analysts 
of Microprocessor Report.
During the year, we launched the ARM11 PrimeXsys
Platform for wireless applications, and the PrimeXsys
Dual Core Platform for networking applications. These
platforms provide system developers with all the
hardware, software and verification IP necessary 
to design a system on chip (SoC). We also announced 
a technology collaboration, aimed at prolonging the
battery life of mobile devices, with National
Semiconductor.
Our technology has been licensed to many of the world’s
leading semiconductor companies and many of our
Partners have demonstrated their confidence in it by
increasing the number of products they license from 
us. Around two-thirds of the top 150 semiconductor
companies have not yet, however, licensed our
technology. These opportunities that exist, combined
with the flexibility of our licensing models and the ARM
total solution offering, combine to give us confidence 
in the future.
Warren East Chief Executive Officer
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  7 8 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Review of operations
forging
relationships
The Partnerships we have formed with major
semiconductor companies, such as Philips, Texas
Instruments (TI) and Toshiba, have served us well and
continue to do so. TI, for example, was one of the first
licensees of the ARM1136J-S product, while Toshiba and
Philips were two of more than 25 Partners to sign up to
provide support and technical contributions towards the
development of the next generation of AMBA™ 3.0
technology, an established industry methodology for
system-on-chip (SoC) module assembly. 
Our overriding culture of meeting the market’s
constantly evolving needs has led us to develop 
a number of different styles of Partnership. These range
from our original business model, under which we
license our microprocessor cores, to our Foundry
Programme, which was developed to enable smaller,
fabless, companies to benefit from our expertise.
Whereas our larger Partners license our technology 
on a multi-use basis, the smaller, and typically one-
product, companies license our IP on a per-use basis.
They produce silicon through one of our seven Foundry
Partners (wafer fabricators), which hold licences to
manufacture using our cores. This enables these smaller
companies to mitigate risk and to bring their ARM
Powered products to market quickly.
More recently, a newer type of Partner has emerged
to participate in the ARM Approved Licensing
Programme. This programme enables Partners 
to sub-license ARM core technology and, thereby 
to provide their customers with end-to-end services. 
The benefits to these customers, principally original
equipment manufacturers (OEMs), of dealing with one
party for IP , design and manufacturing are lower costs
and improved time-to-market. Our first Partner in this
new programme is US-based Flextronics Semiconductor.
Our Subscription Licence model, which we developed 
for some of our larger Partners, enables them to pay 
an annual fee and to use our IP during that period. 
This saves time and legal costs because Partners are
able to access our technology on demand under a single
legal agreement. It also helps us to promote the use of
our IP in these companies because it gives development
groups which are planning new designs, quick and easy
access to our technology.
Our ARM Technology Access Programme (ATAP)
extended and formalised our relationship with design
service companies which, by specialising in designing
SoC implementations, enable product development
teams to focus on differentiation and adding value. 
We verify that each centre is able to meet the needs 
of the growing number of our Partners which choose 
to outsource all, or part of, their design or manufacturing
activities. 
We introduced a further initiative, our Approved Training
Centre (ATC) programme, to extend and formalise existing
relationships. This increases the number of organisations
which are authorised to provide ARM training. We give
their teaching staff intensive training and monitor 
them regularly to ensure that they continue to meet 
our standards.
ARM’s many types of Partners include an entire
community of organisations which align their products
and services around the ARM architecture. These include
leading Operating Systems and Real Time Operating
Systems (RTOS) providers, EDA companies, application
software providers, and tools developers. Each
contributes to our network of Partners by enabling 
a wide range of technology solutions that support the
development of ARM Powered products. This makes our
architecture one of the most widely supported 32-bit
RISC microprocessor solutions available today.
As the market evolves, we will continue to create
innovative business models to enable us to take
advantage of new opportunities as well as to provide
access to our technology for an entirely new generation
of companies.
We have a “can do” culture and have always been
prepared to find ways to deliver what our Partners need. 
Above right: Iceberg Alley, off Newfoundland, Canada. Icebergs are usually found in groups, in which they
stay and migrate. ARM’s relationships with its Partners are similarly stable and long lasting. ARM’s Partnership culture has had a major 
role to play in the Company’s success and, in recent years, new and different
Partnership models have been introduced to enable more companies to join 
the ARM community.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  9
