 Chairman’s statement
4 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002
Results
We finished the year with total revenues up 3%, 
to £150.9 million, and licensing revenues up 8%, 
to £83.0 million. Profit before tax was down slightly 
to £47.5 million, from £50.6 million in 2001, before
restructuring costs of £2.0 million in 2002. Improved
management of our working capital contributed to 
an increase in our cash and short-term investments 
to £130.3 million, from £104.5 million at the end of 
the previous year.
The market
The challenging economic environment and downturn 
in the semiconductor industry persisted throughout 2002.
While we showed a healthy growth in the first half of
the year, the industry slow-down caught up with us in
the second half as a number of our Partners deferred
placing licensing orders from quarter to quarter and, 
as a result, licensing activity slowed down. 
This led us to revise our short- to medium-term revenue
expectations in the fourth quarter and to adjust our cost
base accordingly. ARM continues, however, to report
strong profits and to generate cash, and we have
persevered with our policy of investing in the Company’s
future by maintaining a high level of expenditure on
research and development.
Geographic expansion
In July 2002, we opened an office in Shanghai, in the
People’s Republic of China. ARM Consulting (Shanghai)
Co. Ltd., will help to create a comprehensive value chain
for the country’s electronics industry by supporting
existing and prospective Partners, and by becoming
involved in initiatives such as technology transfer and
university programmes.
People
In the fourth quarter, in response to the declining
market, we took the painful, but necessary, decision 
to reduce our total workforce by approximately 12%; 
at the end of the year we employed 721 people, taking
us back to the number we employed at the end of 2001.
The reductions, which were made across all levels and
business areas, will save approximately £5 million a year
in employment costs. 
In March 2002, Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Brooks
retired from the Company and we were pleased to
welcome Tim Score as his replacement; in August 2002,
Pete Magowan, Vice President of Business Development,
left us to enter the venture capital industry, and Mike
Inglis was appointed to the ARM Holdings plc board as
Executive Vice President, Marketing. I would like to
thank both Jonathan and Pete for their significant
contributions to the Company’s development.
We strengthened the operational board of the company
by appointing Colm MacKernan as General Counsel and
by promoting Simon Segars, Executive Vice President,
Engineering, and Jerry Ardizzone, Executive Vice
President, Worldwide Sales, to the executive team.
We appreciate the hard work and creativity of all our
people and thank them for their contribution.
Legal action
In May 2002, Nazomi Communications, Inc. filed a
lawsuit before the Federal District Court for Northern
California, claiming that our Jazelle
®
technology for 
Java acceleration infringes a US patent owned by
Nazomi. We are confident that our products do not
infringe the patent cited in the law suit or any other
Nazomi patent.
ARM’s competitive position in the intellectual property (IP)
licensing business improved during 2002, despite tough
trading conditions. Although the short-term trading outlook is
flattish, our long-term objective to become the architecture 
for the digital world remains on track. ARM Annual report and accounts 2002  5
We believe that this action is more straightforward than
the litigation with picoTurbo Inc., which was concluded 
in December 2001, and expect the cost and management
time to be significantly less. We believe that the matter
could be concluded quickly.
We are now protecting our IP even more vigorously. 
We filed twice as many patent applications in 2002 as in
the previous year and now have more than 230 patent
families which cover the scope of our activities; these
comprise 738 patents on file around the world, 245 of
which have matured into issued patents.
Current trading and prospects 
The strategic nature of our relationships with our
Partners enables us to be optimistic about our prospects
but, in the current climate, the timing of the completion
of licensing deals is difficult to predict. In addition, our
reported revenues are exposed to any further weakening
of the US dollar. As a result, we expect our quarterly
revenues to be fairly flat during 2003.
We have, however, received positive feedback from our
Partners on our new ARM1136J-S™ and ARM1136JF-S™
processors. During the year, we will introduce other 
new cores, platform products and Development Systems
products, which should further stimulate demand.
Over the longer term, we believe that the industry
downturn will serve only to strengthen our market
position. The accelerating pace behind the ARM
architecture is illustrated by the expansion of the
third-party community of companies that have chosen
to work closely with us. The quality and flexibility 
of our architecture, combined with our focus on high
performance at low cost, and on good power efficiency,
not only differentiates us from our competitors, but 
also makes us the preferred partner for many of the
world’s leading semiconductor manufacturers.
Sir Robin Saxby Chairman
