 Results and dividend
The decisions we took in the fourth quarter 
of 2002 to reduce our cost base, but also 
to maintain our high level of research and
development expenditure throughout the
protracted industry downturn enabled us,
during the year, to introduce a number of new
products based on innovative technologies and
to strengthen our position in becoming the
architecture for the digital world.
Although our full year 2003 revenues were
down on the previous 12 months, our revenues
in 2003 increased from the first quarter onwards.
On total revenues of £128.1 million, we earned
profit before tax of £23.2 million (after adjusting
for the cost of settlement of the dispute with
Herodion of £6.4 million). Good cost control
and working capital management enabled 
us to convert this into net cash generation 
of £29.5 million*.
This strong cash generation, together with our
confidence in the Group’s long-term prospects,
enabled us to continue to make significant
investments in technological innovation, both
organic and through a “bolt-on” strategic
acquisition.
2003 was a year of stable quarter-on-quarter progress, continued
technological innovation, and one in which the ARM
®
architecture
gained increasing global acceptance
The board also decided at the end of 2003 
to initiate the payment of an annual dividend.
We see a return of cash to shareholders
through a dividend as part of a package 
of measures to make the best use of the
business’s cash resources. It is the board’s
intention to increase the dividend over 
time, taking into account the opportunity for
continued investment in the business and the
Group’s underlying operational performance.
The market
Activity in the semiconductor industry gradually
increased as 2003 progressed, giving rise to
improving confidence among our partners,
particularly in respect of the volume of
products shipped. However, tight financial
control by our partners continues to be 
exerted and it is expected that improvements
in licensing revenue will occur gradually during
2004. In the meantime, the expansion of our
existing family of products, together with new
products introduced in 2003, is expected to
contribute to a long-term trend of improving
licensing revenue.
It is encouraging to see that our partners
shipped so many ARM core-based products in
the year: 782 million units, 71% more than in
2002. This gives us confidence that we are
providing our semiconductor partners with the
right technologies to meet the expectations 
of their customers – the Original Equipment
Manufacturers (OEMs). It also demonstrates
that consumers are more readily embracing 
the digital world.
Geographic expansion
ARM’s business is increasingly global. 
In 2003, the geographic source of our
revenues illustrated the global reach of 
the semiconductor industry as well as our 
role at its heart: 51% of full-year revenues
emanated from North America, 31% from 
Asia Pacific, and 18% from Europe.
The balance of world trade is, however,
shifting. China is becoming an increasingly
influential player; what was traditionally an
agrarian society is becoming an industrial one,
which means that its need for electronics to
use in goods that it exports, as well as in
those which it consumes domestically, is
increasing rapidly. 
Currently most of the chips which are used in
China are bought from our partners and are
designed around our intellectual property (IP),
but we are establishing local relationships in
China as the country’s high-technology
industry matures and its companies begin to
develop their own IP . We have been working
4 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003
Chairman’s statement
* Net cash generation is the movement in cash and short-term
investments as per the balance sheets at the beginning and 
end of the year. with companies in China for a number of
years: we set up our first office, in Shanghai,
in July 2002. In 2004, we plan to open a
second office, in Beijing. 
During 2003, we signed seven licences in
China, not only with semiconductor companies
but also with foundries and universities.
Watertek became the first ARM Approved
Training Centre in China in January; we
extended our University Programme when
Southeast University licensed the ARM7TDMI
®
core in May, and when Shanghai Jiaotong
University licensed the ARM922T™ core in
December; we signed our first licensing deal
with a Chinese government-supported
organisation, Shanghai ICC, in May; in July 
we extended our Foundry Programme when
we signed an agreement with SMIC; Datang
licensed the ARM946E™ microprocessor core in
September, and in December, Shanghai Fudan
Microelectronics licensed the ARM7TDMI core. 
Many entrepreneurial and innovative ventures
are emerging in other markets. ARM is
working to help these companies as they seek
the right technology to achieve time-to-market
and time-to-volume advantage. We have
signed a number of licences in Israel within
the last two years and expect to announce
more licences during 2004. In addition, we 
are increasingly active in India, where many
engineers have experience of working with
our technology. 
People
We made a conscious decision at the outset 
of 2003 that, excluding acquisitions, we would
keep our headcount stable throughout the
year. Our employees responded magnificently
to the challenge and achieved a lot while
under tight cost constraint. We were delighted
to welcome 25 new employees to ARM with
the acquisition of Adelante Technologies N.V.
(now ARM Belgium N.V.) in July 2003. 
Board changes
Lawrence Tesler will be retiring from the board
at the Annual General Meeting on 26 April
2004, having served two three-year terms 
as a non-executive director. With his strong
technology background and industry
experience, he has made a significant
contribution over the past six years, which 
the board has greatly appreciated.
It is intended that Jeremy Scudamore who is
CEO of Avecia Group (formerly the specialty
chemicals business of Zeneca) be appointed 
as a non-executive director of the Company
immediately following the Annual General
Meeting on 26 April 2004. He has considerable
international business experience and will
bring a broad range of skills to the board that
extend beyond the semiconductor industry.
Current trading and prospects
We enter 2004 with confidence. Our business
continues to make good profits and to generate
cash throughout the toughest downturn that
our industry has witnessed for many years. We
continue to invest in innovation and in products
for the future. We believe that, as the industry
emerges from the downturn, our competitive
position is stronger than it was before. 
The number of new products available for
licensing in 2004, and the momentum behind
our royalty revenues, give us confidence that
this will be another successful year and 
that we will enjoy a return to revenue growth.
Many challenges lie ahead, however, and the
continuing weakness of the US dollar against
sterling will have an impact. 
Notwithstanding these challenges, we 
are confident that the platform we have
established over the past 13 years, together
with the passion and commitment of our
employees, and the work of our partners,
leave us well placed to benefit as the 
digital world gathers pace. 
Sir Robin Saxby Chairman
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 5
