 The global business climate improved in 2003,
particularly towards the end of the year. As a
result, the technology industry appears to have
shaken off much of the uncertainty which
characterised the first two years of the new
decade and, while we cannot be sure how
long it will take for these improvements to
result in increased licensing activity, the change
in the economic environment is welcome.
The improvement in the economy, combined
with the adjustments to our cost base made 
in the fourth quarter of 2002, enabled us to
improve quarterly revenues throughout 2003
and to achieve strong net cash generation each
quarter. Our decision to maintain a high level
of investment in research and development
(R&D) during the industry downturn enabled 
us to introduce a number of new products.
These are already driving licence revenue and
are underpinning our confidence in our ability
to increase revenue during 2004.
Gradual increases in quarterly revenue and 
tight cost control gave rise to improving margins
(excluding one-off legal settlement costs) as 
the year progressed. The weakness of the
dollar had an impact on revenue growth,
particularly in the second half, but 2003 was
still a year of robust financial performance.
Licensing, product development and 
new technology
Licensing is fundamental to our business: 
it drives royalties and underpins our future
profitability. Activity gradually picked up in 
the third quarter and continued into the fourth.
In 2003, we signed a total of 51 licences for
microprocessors; of these, 25 were multi-use
licences and 26 per-use licences. We signed
licences with 26 new companies, bringing the
total number of semiconductor partners to
128. Of the 26 new partners, seven took
multi-use licences and 19 per-use licences.
2003 was another busy and rewarding year 
in terms of our product development. Market
demand for microprocessor solutions that 
offer increased performance, security and
power efficiency continues.
We introduced a number of new products
during the year which incorporate new
technology features, including the TrustZone™
security extension, the Thumb®-2 core
technology for improved code density and
Intelligent Energy Manager (IEM) hardware
and software for low-power consumption.
These underpin the opportunities for licensing
in 2004 and beyond.
TrustZone technology will greatly improve the
security of mobile devices, which is a major
concern for handset suppliers and service
providers. Our IEM technology is continuing 
our relentless push to improve the power
efficiency of battery-operated devices; and 
we are taking significant steps in enabling 
the development of complex and efficient
solutions, partly through our work with NEC 
in Symmetrical Multi-Processing (SMP). 
These, together with other technologies
announced in 2003, are complementary to 
the growing range of our cores.
In October, we launched two new ARM11
family microprocessors, the ARM1156T2-S™ 
core and the ARM1176JZ-S™ core, which
include a number of these new features; they
are available for licensing now for delivery in 
mid-2004. We delivered the first ARM11 core
family-based product just over a year ago and
are encouraged by the rate at which this
technology is being adopted. So far, our
partners have taken a total of ten licences. 
In December 2003, we announced a new
ARM9 family core, the ARM968E-S™ core, for
deeply embedded applications. Our smallest,
lowest-power, synthesizable ARM9E™ family
core provides an ideal solution for networking
6 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003
Chief Executive Officer’s review
During 2003 we continued to progress our business by developing 
our technology and products. It was a year of stabilisation, but one 
in which we achieved our major business goals applications, but will also be appropriate 
for many applications in the automotive,
consumer entertainment and wireless sectors.
These new cores represent significant
extensions to our range. At the same time, 
we are working on our next-generation
architecture. We signed our first lead partner
for this technology in the third quarter of 2003.
The Foundry Programme
The introduction of the ARM926EJ core to 
our Foundry Programme, which continues to
provide an excellent entry point for companies
which are licensing our technology for the first
time, will help to maintain the momentum 
in the programme. Per-use licensees are now
able to have this product manufactured by 
two of our foundry partners, TSMC and UMC.
Royalty revenues
Substantial licensing in recent years resulted 
in a much higher number of ARM Powered®
devices being shipped than in 2002. Our
partners shipped 782 million ARM Powered
devices in 2003, at a value of £44.3 million,
an increase of 71% on 2002’s record of
456 million units. 
The fact that volumes increased across all
markets demonstrates that our core-based
designs are increasingly the architecture of
choice. There was also a significant increase 
in the number of partners shipping ARM
Powered devices – from 43 at the end of
2002, to 60 by the end of 2003.
Part of this success can be attributed to the
improved economy but more important, we
believe, is the fact that more of our partners
began shipping more ARM Powered products,
including an increasing proportion based on
our newer ARM9 family cores.
We have traditionally been very strong in the
wireless market, but in recent years have
begun to mirror that success elsewhere and,
as a result, have improved the balance and
stability of our business. Unit shipments in
other markets are now growing at the same
rate as those in the wireless market.
Patent portfolio
The protection of our IP and the growth of 
our patent portfolio are key priorities for the
business. In 2003, we filed twice as many
patents as in 2002 and we anticipate that the
rate of filing will continue to increase in 2004.
It is imperative that we defend our IP
vigorously and, in that context, we were
encouraged that the partial summary
judgement ruling in Nazomi’s case against us
for alleged patent infringement found in our
favour. The partial summary judgement ruled
that products using the current commercial
design of the ARM Jazelle® technology do 
not infringe Nazomi’s patent. Nazomi has
appealed against the ruling, but we are
confident that the original ruling will be upheld.
In March 2004, we settled all outstanding
issues with Herodion (picoTurbo Inc.’s
successor entity) relating to the out-of-court
settlement of the patent lawsuit against
picoTurbo in December 2001. Following the
findings of an arbitration panel established to
resolve the issues and subsequent discussions
between the parties, ARM agreed to pay
£6.4 million as part of the settlement
agreement. This amount has been charged 
to the profit and loss account in 2003.
The future
Our commitment to R&D keeps us ahead of
the competition. We maintained high levels 
of investment in innovation in 2003, even
though it was a tough year, and the fruits 
of our labours are being realised with the
introduction of our new technologies. While
better economic conditions should help us to
progress, much of the improvement we expect
in 2004 can be attributed to factors which are
in our control, such as the availability of a
number of new products for licensing.
We fully expect to build on our recent
successes in the coming year.
Warren East Chief Executive Officer
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 7
