 Chief Executive Officer’s review of operations
A 32% year-on-year growth in dollar revenues 
in 2004 and the positive trend in our order backlog 
indicate that the ARM stand-alone business is in
robust shape. We look forward to 2005 with confidence 
as we start to realise the benefits arising from the acquisition
of Artisan at the end of the year.
The year was one of growth and achievement for ARM, both
operationally and strategically. Following a year of consolidation 
in 2003, we increased licensing activity and revenues, made two
acquisitions and expanded into new markets. As 2004 ended, the
business community was understandably cautious about external
factors, such as the weak dollar and the global economic climate, 
but our achievements during the year demonstrate that we are 
strongly positioned to continue to flourish in 2005.
Acquisition of Artisan Components, Inc.
We completed the acquisition of Artisan on 23 December 2004; 
the combined company’s product portfolios and sales channel now
provide one of the broadest offerings of system-on-chip (SoC) IP to our
expanded customer base. We expect the amalgamation of the ARM and
Artisan businesses to increase revenue, save costs by consolidating
selected corporate functions, deliver an attractive margin structure and
generate strong cash flow.
The combined company will seek to leverage Artisan’s expertise in
physical IP design – the essential building blocks of integrated circuits –
with ARM’s expertise in designing microprocessors. As a result, we will
be able to develop highly-optimised components for use in, and with,
our microprocessors, creating the potential to produce substantial
benefits for end users, such as reduced power consumption and
increased processor speed.
The integration of the businesses is proceeding as planned. The former
Artisan business now forms our Physical IP group, and one worldwide
sales force is responsible for selling the full range of products. ARM’s
office in Los Gatos, California, closed in February 2005 and employees
relocated to Artisan’s Sunnyvale facility, our new US headquarters.
Shipments and licensing activity
The electronics industry in general had a good year with growth 
across all our key markets. The sales of ARM Powered products 
provide a powerful indicator of our success: shipments in a single 
year exceeded the one billion mark for the first time. Total shipments
increased 63%, from 782 million in 2003 to 1.3 billion. Most new-
generation 3G mobile phones will be ARM Powered and the increasing
adoption of the technology has accelerated shipments in this market.
There were also significant increases in shipments of ARM Powered
digital cameras; storage devices, such as hard disk drives; automotive
products and consumer electronics.
Licensing activity was also strong: 65 licences (31 multi-use licences
and 34 per-use licences) were signed in 2004, compared with 51 in
2003. Of the 65 licences, 15 were for ARM11 products, 31 for ARM9
products, 15 for ARM7 products, three for next-generation ARM
processors and one architecture licence. Fifteen companies became 
new ARM Partners, bringing the total to 140. Two of our new Partners
took multi-use licences and 13 took per-use licences. Total licensing
revenues in 2004 were £59.4 million – 39% of total revenues –
compared with £50.8 million, or 40%, in 2003. 
Licensing activity demonstrated the breadth of our technology offer as
well as the longevity of our products. For example, our Partners have
been licensing products in the ARM7 family for more than 11 years, 
and we expect the licensing of ARM7 family products to continue 
for some time.
The industry’s commitment to ARM11 technology, and to complementary
ARM technologies such as TrustZone™ security software and Jazelle 
Java acceleration technology, was emphasised by the 15 new ARM11
licences signed in 2004 (making a total of 25 to date). As ARM11
family products move into the mainstream licensing phase, it is
encouraging that licensing of the next generation of ARM technology
began in 2004: we signed three Partners for our “Tiger” product. Other
new technologies planned for delivery in 2005 are now available for
licensing, and we will release details of them during 2005.
The strong licensing performance increased the order backlog in 
the fourth quarter of the year, with the result that it was approximately
30% higher at the end of 2004 than at the end of 2003. Revenues
from licensing of products other than microprocessors comprised 18%
of the total in 2004, compared with 17% in 2003.
Product development, new technology and partnerships
The announcement in October 2004 of our new Cortex™ family of
microprocessors received an enthusiastic welcome from Partners. Cortex
products will enable them to benefit from the incorporation of new
features into microprocessors at various performance points. The first
member of the family, the ARM Cortex-M3 processor, is targeted at
extremely cost-sensitive embedded applications, such as microcontrollers,
automotive body systems and white goods. 
A further significant technology was announced in May 2004 at the
Embedded Processor Forum in San Jose, California. Commonly known 
as a “data engine”, the ARM OptimoDE solution enables flexible, low-
cost devices to be designed and developed at performance levels which
6 ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 cannot be achieved by conventional design. By the end of 2004, we
had welcomed the first four licencees of OptimoDE technology, which
can be used for any application that requires computationally intensive
data and signal processing, including video, wireless LAN, audio, imaging
and consumer entertainment. Comprising a configurable data engine
(signal processor), together with related IP and tools, it will be used in
systems alongside existing ARM technologies, including the electronic
system level (ESL) design tools from Axys.
The acquisition of Axys, a provider of fast, accurate, integrated,
processor and system modelling and simulation solutions, brings ESL
expertise to our RealView® design tools portfolio. The ESL products
reduce overall system costs by enabling designs to be modelled early 
in the development cycle, speeding time-to-market and minimising
design errors.
In July we established an Embedded Software group to capitalise on
opportunities to generate revenues from software. This team will build
on the foundation of the existing Jazelle
®
Java acceleration technology,
Intelligent Energy Manager (IEM) technology, TrustZone security
software and Swerve (co-developed with Superscape Group plc)
technology. It will bring more focus to the development of enabling
software technology to support growth in microprocessor and physical
IP licensing, Development Systems and data engines revenues.
In October, we held the first ARM Developers’ Conference in Santa Clara.
This epitomised the ARM Connected Community: it brought together
more than 2,000 delegates and 100 exhibitors from across the world.
The attendees all had a common interest – a desire to play a role in 
the development of solutions based on ARM IP . The event was an
unqualified success and we are already organising the 2005 conference. 
Revenue and margins
Healthy licensing activity and significant growth in shipments of ARM
Powered products had a positive impact. In sterling, revenue rose by
19% compared with 2003; in dollar terms, the growth was even more
impressive, at 32%. Effective cost control resulted in our operating profit
margin increasing gradually towards our target of around 30%. On the
basis of our performance over the past 12 months, we are looking
forward with optimism. 
People
In the summer of 2004 we accelerated recruitment and, by the end of
the year, had 1,171 full-time employees, including 347 who joined the
Company as part of the Artisan acquisition, up from 740 in December
2003. The decision to increase headcount was underpinned by our
confidence in our potential for growth. We recruited in most areas 
of the business but, in particular, boosted the Development Systems
team and expanded technical sales and marketing. At the year end, 
the Company had 546 employees in the UK, 454 in the US, 79 in
continental Europe, 51 in India and 41 in the Asia Pacific region.
The future
Our investments in important developing markets, combined with 
the acquisitions of Axys and Artisan, are evidence of our belief that the
future offers great opportunities for the development of our business.
Together, they will facilitate the design of highly-optimised, cost-
effective systems, which incorporate hardware and software, resulting
in faster time to revenue for our Partners, their customers and, of
course, for us.
The two acquisitions we made in 2004 have set us ahead of the
competition. Add to this the momentum from the royalties earned and
licences signed in 2004, our ever-expanding Partner network and the
exciting new applications currently being developed to run on our
processors, and our reasons for optimism are clear. 
Warren East Chief Executive Officer
ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 7 8 ARM Annual report and accounts 2004
ARM IP makes 
life easier by being at the heart 
of countless products used at home, 
from plasma TVs to washing machines and 
from gaming consoles to refrigerators
Review of operations/at home
Take a look back over the past five years and ask, “How has technology
improved?” It was not that long ago that all but the most expensive 
TVs were large boxes that took up an entire corner of a room; gaming
machines were slow, and mobile phones had monochrome screens 
and limited battery life. 
Naturally, we only know the shortcomings of past technology in
retrospect. At the time, not even well-informed consumers knew what
future technology would deliver. ARM, on the other hand, had a pretty
good idea. 
This is because ARM has been a part of the technology innovation for 
20 years. Our technology can be found at the heart of countless products.
At home, at work and on the move, our IP is playing a central role in
the quest for ever faster, less power hungry, more secure, increasingly
portable and more compact digital products.
Plasma-screen TVs, for example, are rapidly replacing traditional models.
As well as being more stylish, space efficient and offering high-quality
audio-visual entertainment, they are increasingly affordable. Similarly,
gaming machines offer vastly enhanced performance and capabilities:
vivid sound, high-definition graphics and dynamic gameplay. The
gaming experience – on consoles and on handheld devices – is a huge
improvement over previous models.
The latest generation of mobile phones has redefined the boundaries 
of wireless communications. 3G technology, which is becoming widely
adopted around the world, offers video phone and music download in
the palm of the hand.
We have played a significant role, along with our Partners, in the
development of these and other technology-based products. Although
consumers are unaware of what lies inside the products they use, the
world’s leading semiconductor manufacturers have licensed our IP and it
is their products – the small, yet increasingly powerful, microprocessors
– which have enabled greater innovation by the manufacturers of digital
devices. This has enabled these companies to create products that
appeal to an increasing group of consumers. Whereas technology
products used to be confined to specific niches, microprocessors – 
and, therefore, ARM – are now everywhere.
This is reflected in the royalties that we earn every time an ARM
Powered product is shipped. In 2004, shipments exceeded the one
billion mark per year and, as microprocessors are used in a wider range
of consumer products including white goods such as washing machines
and refrigerators, the number and type of ARM Powered products will
continue to increase. ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 9
Manufacturers of digital products are driven by the need to stay ahead
of the competition and to respond quickly to consumer demand. As 
a result, microprocessors must be faster, more versatile, smaller and
more energy efficient. Development times for new products shorten
every year. Consistently meeting and exceeding such demands is our
speciality and our success is derived from the unique relationships 
we share with our multitude of Partners.
This is illustrated by the ARM Connected Community which now embraces
more than 200 Partners from across the technology spectrum. Bringing
together many types of technology companies including semiconductor
manufacturers, development tools suppliers and operating system (OS)
vendors, we provide the foundation for some of the industry’s most
exciting developments.
Technology is constantly changing, but ARM continues to be devoted 
to its partnership business model. Through interaction, the sharing 
of information and ideas and close collaboration, companies across 
the globe are working with ARM, and one another, to create the next
generation of technology-based products for use at home.
ARM IP is at the heart of many 
of the digital products used in
everyday life. Our technology 
enables innovative new developments
in home entertainment and
communications, and can be found in
everything from feature-rich mobile
phones to next-generation plasma-
screen TVs, stereo systems and
gaming consoles – even concept
products such as an ARM Powered
DVD coffee maker.
Our technology is not only present in
products used for entertainment, it can 
be found in many household items that 
we take for granted such as washing
machines, refrigerators and home security
systems. ARM IP is central to the
microprocessors that power these 
and similar items. 10 ARM Annual report and accounts 2004
Review of operations/at work
ARM IP makes life more efficient, enabling its
Partners to create more functional products by 
increasing performance and decreasing power 
consumption
Microprocessors have been ubiquitous in the workplace for more than
two decades: virtually everyone now uses microprocessor technology 
on a daily basis. It is not surprising, therefore, that just as our IP powers
countless technology products at home, we have a considerable, and
increasing presence, in the world of work.
Many ARM Powered products are used at home and at work. Personal
digital assistants (PDAs), for example, have become a regular feature 
of many people’s lives and offer a wealth of instantly accessible
information. Like so many other technology products, each generation
of PDAs is smaller, more powerful and offers greater battery life than 
its predecessor, and we continue to play a significant role in the
ongoing revolution.
Mobile devices offer even greater functionality. Some contain multiple
ARM microprocessors: one for processing information, for example, 
and another for networking functions. In addition, the latest handheld
computers are also wireless devices. The adoption of industry standards,
such as Bluetooth and WLAN, has helped narrow the gap between the
capabilities of mobile and wireless and wireline technologies.
One reason for our success in this, and all markets, is our focus on
enabling our Partners to develop increasingly innovative applications
based on our architecture. Although we are committed to introducing
new IP , our reputation is built on much more than the capabilities of 
our designs. ARM Development Systems provides a comprehensive
range of solutions to help developers make the most of ARM IP . These
complement our processors and include software, and hardware tools
which are designed to speed time-to-market, while also reducing the
risk and cost of development. 
In addition, we have partnerships with a wide range of providers 
of complementary solutions, from suppliers of embedded OS and
development environments, to specialists in electronic design automation
(EDA), to application software providers. Our partnerships with the
leaders in these fields give our silicon Partners considerable advantages
in the quest for ever-more innovative products.
By combining our IP with third-party software, our silicon Partners
design microprocessors which push the boundaries of performance 
and power efficiency. The net result for users is greater functionality,
improved efficiency and faster communications. The contemporary
office communicates like never before. Flexibility and mobility are key
factors. Many products, including printers, are now wireless devices. 
At the same time, they combine scanning and photocopying functions, ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 11
The convergence of mobile
communication and PDA computing
technologies, which is being driven
by our Partners’ ARM Powered
solutions, is making information
instantly accessible to everyone,
whether in the home or at work.
and produce high-quality output in a fraction of the time of previous
generations – and at less cost. 
Again, ARM IP is at the heart of the networking and storage markets.
ARM Powered products include the servers, modems and firewalls that
ensure high performance, reliable and secure connections within and
between offices around the world.
Our microproccessors are ideally suited to the storage market, to enable
OEMs to pack increasingly large amounts of media into smaller devices.
Whether it is a hard disk drive, a memory card or a personal storage
device that plugs into a Universal Serial Bus (USB) port, performance
and affordability are vital considerations.
With the recent advancements in
wireless technology, ARM IP is able
to play a vital role in bringing freedom
and convenience to the workplace.
Our technology powers a range of
products that can communicate to
each other without wires, and that
increase the scope of where and 
how we do business – from handheld
computers and smart phones to fax
machines and printers.
ARM is also at the heart of the
technology that supports and connects
people in the traditional workplace
environment. Our IP can be found in
the IT servers and modems that are
used everyday and that we rely on to
ensure high-performance and efficiency.
ARM Powered products are also found in other work environments.
From mobile bar code readers, to electronic test and measurement
equipment, and to factory and warehouse automation systems, the
ARM architecture is gaining support across an increasingly diverse range
of applications.
Each new product that incorporates ARM IP strengthens our connection
with the continuing technology revolution that touches everyone’s 
lives. At home and at work, wherever you live and whatever you do, 
it is likely that you will use an ARM Powered product at some point 
in your day.  12 ARM Annual report and accounts 2004
Review of operations/on the move
ARM IP makes life more fun for 
consumers by enabling our Partners 
to shape tomorrow’s world today: 
now we can take photographs 
with our mobile phones 
and talk to our friends 
through our TVs
Not long ago, pocket-sized video cameras, video phones and biometric
identification systems existed only in futuristic movies. Now, these
products are commonplace and often ARM Powered, and they confirm
that the future of everyday technology is more exciting than ever.
When travelling between work and home, enjoying leisure time or
simply buying groceries, ARM Powered products play an increasing 
role in everyday life.
The automotive market is a prime example. By 2007, it is estimated
that the average mid-range car will contain up to 70 microprocessors.
The latest ARM Powered products in this market include advanced anti-
lock braking systems and GPS navigation that provides a 3D view of the
road ahead. Our IP has also been used by the creators of a solar-
powered car. 
ARM Powered products also protect your money. In the past, bank 
and credit cards, for example, stored data on a magnetic strip. The 
new generation of smartcards takes security to a new level with 
highly-secure microprocessors which greatly reduce the incidence of
fraud. Our architecture is also in electronic point-of-sale (EPoS)
terminals, PinPads and ATMs. 
Security is an increasingly important issue for many people – but so is
having fun. Our technology is used as much in portable audio-visual
products as it is in the security market. 
Some of the world’s most advanced digital cameras, for example, are
ARM Powered. From affordable models for amateur photographers, to
those used by professionals, more and more digital cameras incorporate
our architecture. Our IP makes it possible to hold a video conference
through the family TV; it also makes it possible to produce digital video
cameras the size of a pack of playing cards.
For decades, magnetic tape was a chosen medium for portable sound
and vision. A standard audio tape stored 90 minutes of music; now,
personal audio players give music lovers on the move immediate
access to thousands of songs and hours of enjoyment. The storage
capacity of personal audio players is an important buying criterion, but
so is size and battery life. On all counts, ARM Powered products have
set the standard. Only a few years ago, it would have been impossible
to store more than 2,500 songs on any device but now, products which
do just that are available. And many, including the market leaders, are
based on the ARM architecture. ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 13
Some ARM Powered products combine digital music and still pictures 
in one device. Indeed, convergence is an irresistible trend in the
technology industry. In the same way that technology has crossed 
the divide between home and work, it has also occupied the space 
in between. 
Technology is now so well established that traditional boundaries
between products’ functions and where they are used are becoming
blurred. As a result, the world’s microprocessor manufacturers and 
the OEMs that design the technology products we use every day are
demanding more. These companies need complete solutions which
encompass microprocessor IP , physical IP , development tools, software
and a host of complementary third-party products. For this reason, 
ARM is uniquely positioned for the future. 
Take a look forward over the next five years and ask “How much will
technology change?” Nobody has the definitive answer, but you can be
sure ARM has a good idea. We will continue to be at the heart of
advanced digital devices – at home, at work and on the move.
The ARM architecture is used in many
of the most advanced digital cameras
and camera phones. Our IP is at the
forefront of this field, enabling the
development of ever-faster and more
compact devices.
Our solutions are not only a part of 
the visual technology revolution but
also the audio, with many market-
leading personal audio players now
being ARM Powered. We also play 
a central role in the technology that
enables innovative new products such
as cardio-vascular monitor watches.
Not only is ARM technology at the
heart of your car, it also plays a role 
in protecting your money. Credit and
debit cards, ATMs and PinPads now
use microprocessors, many of which
are ARM Powered, to store data and 
to prevent fraud. 
Our IP is playing an increasingly large
role in the automotive world, especially
in terms of safety. An average car 
may contain up to 70 microprocessors
powering devices from satellite
navigation to anti-lock braking systems.
