 Chairman’s statement
Results and dividend
The increasingly widespread adoption of ARM technology in consumer
electronic devices was illustrated in 2004 by the 63% increase in the
reported total shipments of ARM Powered® products to 1,272 million
units, up from the reported 782 million units in 2003. The strong cash
generation resulting from this robust operational performance, together
with our confidence in the Company’s long-term prospects, enabled us
to continue to make significant investments in research and development
and to acquire Axys, a provider of electronic system level (ESL) design
tools, in August 2004, and Artisan, which designs physical IP
components, in December 2004.
The combination of ARM microprocessor IP with the physical IP provided
by Artisan, accelerates ARM’s momentum towards becoming the
architecture for the digital world. It is encouraging that we were able 
to complete such a strategically important acquisition at the same time
as achieving a strong financial performance in the underlying business
with a year-on-year dollar revenue increase of more than 30%, operating
margins well ahead and year-end order backlog at record levels. 
The board decided at the end of 2003 to initiate the payment of an
annual dividend. We see a return of cash to shareholders through a
dividend as part of a package of measures to make the best use of the
business’s cash resources. As indicated last year, it is the board’s intention
to increase the dividend over time, taking into account the opportunity
for continued investment in the business and the Company’s underlying
operational performance. With this in mind, the board is recommending
a final dividend of 0.42 pence per share, bringing the total for the year
to 0.7 pence per share, an increase of 17% over the dividend paid in
respect of 2003.
The market
After strong year-on-year growth for the semiconductor industry in
2004, current expectations for 2005 are that there will be little or no
growth over 2004. Despite this flatter trading environment, we expect
2005 to be a year of growth in dollar revenues for the Company,
underpinned by a high order backlog, strong momentum in royalty
revenues and a healthy sales pipeline for our broad technology
portfolio.
New products, including our OptimoDE™ embedded signal processing
technology and our next-generation microprocessor, codenamed “Tiger” ,
are expected to underpin licensing revenue in 2005.
Geographic expansion
ARM’s business is increasingly global. In 2004, the geographic source of
our revenues illustrated the global reach of the semiconductor industry
as well as our role at its heart: 51% of full-year revenues emanated
from North America, 34% from Asia Pacific and 15% from Europe.
During 2004 we established a sales office in Bangalore, India, and our
operations there have been enhanced by the addition of Artisan’s
established design facility in Bangalore. This will be expanded
significantly during 2005. We also opened a second office in China.
Currently most of the chips which are used in China are bought from
our Partners and are designed around our IP , but we are establishing
local relationships as the country’s high-technology industry matures
and its companies begin to develop their own IP . 
People
I thank all employees for the contribution made to the excellent results
achieved in 2004. I also thank the management and employees of ARM
and Artisan who worked tirelessly to make the acquisition happen and
are continuing to do so as we embrace the opportunities that rapid and
full integration of the businesses will bring.
4 ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 2004 was a year of strong operational 
performance, which concluded with completion  
of our acquisition of Artisan.
It is much to their credit that this was achieved concurrently with
delivering a strong operational performance in the increasingly
demanding market in which we operate. We were delighted to
welcome 26 new employees to ARM with the acquisition of Axys 
and 347 new employees with the acquisition of Artisan.
Board changes
There have been a number of board changes during 2004 and 2005
which reflect the board’s commitment to maintain an appropriate
balance of skills and experience. Lawrence Tesler retired from the board
at the 2004 Annual General Meeting, having served two three-year
terms as a non-executive director. Jeremy Scudamore, who is CEO of
Avecia Group (formerly the speciality chemicals business of Zeneca), 
was appointed as a non-executive director in April and has brought 
a broad range of skills to the board that extend beyond the
semiconductor industry.
With the acquisition of Artisan in December 2004, we were delighted to
welcome Mark Templeton and Lucio Lanza to the board. Mark had been
CEO of Artisan since he co-founded the business in 1991. He has joined
the board as an executive director and General Manager of ARM
Physical IP group. Lucio had been a director of Artisan since 1996 
and was Chairman from 1997. He has considerable knowledge and
experience in the field of electronic design automation and of the
semiconductor industry. He has joined the board as a non-executive
director and a member of the nomination committee.
Simon Segars and Philip Rowley joined the board in January 2005.
Simon joined ARM’s engineering team in 1991 and has worked on
many ARM CPU products. He was appointed Executive Vice President,
Engineering in January 2002 and became Executive Vice President,
Worldwide Sales in January 2004. Philip Rowley is President and CEO 
of AOL Europe and has a strong financial background. He is a qualified
chartered accountant and has previously been Group Finance Director 
of Kingfisher plc, and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of EMI Music Worldwide. He joined the board as a non-executive
director and as a member of the audit committee. These appointments
recognise the valuable contribution that Simon is already making to the
direction of the business and Philip’s broad industry experience, which
will further strengthen the non-executive team.
I am delighted that we have been able to recruit such high calibre
individuals with such a breadth of skills and experience to the board.
These appointments bring the number of directors to 14 and there are
no current plans to make further appointments.
Current trading and prospects
The former ARM and Artisan stand-alone businesses both enter 2005
with healthy order backlogs and sales pipelines which underpin
licensing revenues this year. In addition, both companies continue to
enjoy good growth in royalty revenues, based on the increasing
adoption of ARM and Artisan technology by semiconductor and OEM
(Original Equipment Manufacturer) companies in recent years.
Combined with the healthy order backlog and sales pipeline, this gives
us confidence that dollar revenues in both underlying businesses are
capable of growing by at least 20% in 2005.
Sir Robin Saxby Chairman
ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 5
