 4 ARM Annual report and accounts 2005
Business review/Chairman’s statement
It was with great pleasure that I accepted the position of Chairman
of ARM from 1 October 2006, following the retirement of Sir Robin
Saxby. I took up my role towards the end of another successful year
for the Company, and we entered 2007 well placed to build on
our market-leading position.
Results and dividend
The increasingly widespread adoption of ARM technology in consumer
electronic devices was illustrated during 2006 by the 47% increase in
the reported total shipments of ARM Powered
®
products to 2.45 billion
units, up from the reported 1.66 billion units in 2005. Our strong
financial performance continued: dollar revenue growth increased
by 16% and there was a 20% increase compared with 2005 in the
year-end order backlog.
The strong cash generation resulting from this robust operational
performance, together with our confidence in the Company’s long-
term prospects, enabled us to invest heavily in our business and to
strengthen our IP portfolio through the acquisitions during 2006 of
Falanx Microsystems, an innovative graphics IP company, and Soisic,
a leading company in physical IP based on silicon on insulator (SOI)
technology. These acquisitions add to ARM’s microprocessor and physical
IP capabilities, which have accelerated the Company’s momentum
towards becoming the architecture for the digital world.
Strong cash flow has not only enabled us to invest in the business and
make acquisitions of operations with complementary technology, but
also to return cash to shareholders through dividends and the share
buyback programme. It is the board’s intention to increase the dividend
over time, taking into account the opportunity for continued investment
in the business and the Company’s underlying operational performance.
With this in mind, the board is recommending a final dividend of
0.60 pence per share, bringing the total for the year to 1.0 pence per
share, an increase of 19% over the dividend paid in respect of 2005.
We see the return of cash to shareholders through a dividend as part
of a package of measures to make the best use of the business’s
cash resources and plan to continue the share buyback programme,
which we initiated in July 2005. During 2006, we purchased a total
of 63.6 million shares at a total cost of £76.5 million.
The market
The year was another one of healthy growth, approximately 10%, for
the semiconductor industry as a whole, although it began to show signs
of slowing by the end of the year.
The 16% increase in ARM’s dollar revenue
was, once again, significantly ahead of the
industry growth rate and exemplifies the
opportunities that exist for the Company. ARM Annual report and accounts 2005 5
Looking to 2007, we expect the industry to continue to be impacted by
the inventory correction in the first half at least, but we believe that the
effect on ARM will be attenuated and we expect to exceed the industry
growth rate in 2007 as we have done in past years.
Our confidence in the development of our business in 2007 is
underpinned by a healthy technology portfolio of processor and physical
IP , comprising new and mature products. There is the prospect of more
synergistic deals for the physical IP division and continued acceleration
of the penetration of our IP into royalty-generating designs, in both
mobile and non-mobile markets.
Momentum for our processor and physical IP portfolio increased
throughout 2006. Demand continues to grow for the Cortex™ family
of processors which enabled ARM to complete 13 licence deals in the
year. This has been the most successful introduction of any family
of ARM processors and we expect this success to continue in 2007.
In physical IP , we completed seven licence deals with some of the
world’s largest foundries (TSMC, Samsung, IBM, and Chartered) for our
most advanced 45nm physical IP products. In 2007, further opportunities
for licensing exist across the Physical IP portfolio as we seek to benefit
from the desire of semiconductor companies to offset the impact of
increasing costs, as envisaged when we outlined industry transitions
in the original rationale for the acquisition of Artisan in 2004.
People
2006 was a year of investment in new businesses and people, resulting
in a significant increase in our total number of employees. I thank all
employees worldwide for the contribution they have made to the
excellent results achieved in 2006 in the increasingly demanding market
in which we operate. At 31 December 2006, we had 1,659 full-time
employees compared with 1,324 at the end of 2005. Of these, 671 are
based in the UK, 582 in the US, 153 in continental Europe, 203 in India
and 50 in the Asia Pacific region.
We were delighted that the efforts of our people were recognised
recently by the Company winning three prestigious awards, which
were open to businesses from all sectors. In November 2006, ARM was
chosen as UK Business of the Year at the National Business Awards, an
award which takes market leadership, innovation, growth and financial
return into consideration. In January 2007, the Company was recognised
as European Business of the Year, competing against the other national
award winners within the European Union. Further, at the Management
Today awards in November 2006 for Britain’s Most Admired Companies,
ARM was recognised as the company with the “greatest capacity to
innovate”. While these awards were for companies with headquarters
in the UK or the European Union, they recognise the efforts of all ARM
employees worldwide.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2006 5 Business review/Chairman’s statement/continued
These appointments are part of the planned succession for Peter
Cawdron who has been a member of the board since 1998 and will
step down at the AGM on 15 May 2007. More detailed biographies
appear on page 18.
Current trading and prospects
2006 was a year of building for the future. We invested significantly in
the business, with the majority of the investment going to the Physical IP
Division and the emerging business units. Increasing momentum across
our business lines resulted in an above-industry level revenue growth
of 16%.
A broad technology portfolio for licensing, a healthy opportunity pipeline,
an increasing drive in royalties, and the prospect of more synergistic
revenues arising from the combination of processor IP and physical IP ,
underpin our confidence in another strong performance in 2007.
Doug Dunn Chairman
6 ARM Annual report and accounts 2006
Board changes
As part of a planned succession, Sir Robin Saxby retired as Chairman
and as a director of the Company on 1 October 2006, when he took
up his role as President of the Institute of Engineering and Technology
(IET). In his year as President of the IET, Robin will continue to be
associated with ARM as Chairman Emeritus. During his 15 years with
ARM, the Company has earned a reputation as one of the world’s most
respected technology companies and has become a global leader in
semiconductor intellectual property. On behalf of the board I thank him
for the very significant contribution he has made to ARM’s success.
We were very pleased to welcome Kathleen O’Donovan as an
independent non-executive director on 7 December 2006. She is a non-
executive director and Chairman of the audit committee of Prudential plc
and Great Portland Estates plc, and a former non-executive director and
Chairman of the audit committee of the Court of the Bank of England.
She has been appointed to the audit and remuneration committees with
effect from 1 January 2007. We were also very pleased to welcome
Young Sohn as an independent non-executive director on 2 April 2007.
He has extensive experience in the semiconductor industry both in
Silicon Valley and in Asia. He is a director of Cymer, Inc. and M-Stream
Technology Limited. He will be appointed to the audit and remuneration
committees of the Company with effect from 15 May 2007.
