    
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
 
 
 
“Another very strong year of integration” 
 
 
Bill Allan, Chairman 
 
It gives me great pleasure to be able to report on another strong year for Pinnacle. For the fifth consecutive year as a public 
company Pinnacle has delivered growth whilst successfully integrating its acquired businesses into the Group. These 
achievements demonstrate the strength and resilience of the Company’s staff and core business. 
 
The outlook for Pinnacle is positive. I am delighted that post year-end we successfully raised £2.95m before expenses, ensuring 
that the Company has a strong balance sheet, with the financial and operational flexibility to deliver its stated strategy. I am 
confident that Pinnacle is more strongly positioned today, with greater opportunities for increased growth and shareholder value. 
  
A great deal has been achieved since I joined the Board as Chairman in March 2010. The last three years have been a period of 
growth in a challenging market. Pinnacle has been bold in building a business from core strength and acquisitions to compete 
more effectively in a changing telecommunications market, where business customers require a more sophisticated portfolio of 
services. Pinnacle now has the building blocks to compete and win. New skills are being added from staff recruitment, and 
previously independent companies are cooperating to build new services and cross-sell into new markets.   
This is also a time for change, to add new strength and expertise to the Board. In this respect I am delighted to announce that Dr 
James Dodd will replace me as Chairman following the Annual General Meeting on March 26th, and Dr Tom Black will replace 
John Anderson as a Non-Executive Director. These are strong appointments, which reflect well on our company’s ability to attract 
skilled and experienced practitioners to the Board. 
Dr James Dodd has over 30 years experience in the public and private equity markets, focusing on telecommunications and 
related technology industries. A member of the Securities Institute and the Institute of Physics, James is currently a member of 
Oriel Securities' Advisory Board, and serves on the Board of Apollo Submarine Cable System Limited, the joint venture between 
Vodafone Group plc and Alcatel-Lucent SA.  
Dr Tom Black is co-founder and Executive Chairman of Digital Barriers plc, an AIM-listed business focussed on the surveillance 
sector. Prior to setting-up Digital Barriers in 2009, Tom spent over 20 years with Detica Group plc. He joined the business in 1984 
and was appointed Chief Executive in 1995. Tom led the £12m management buyout of Detica in 1997 and the Group's flotation on 
the London Stock Exchange in April 2002. He then oversaw the acquisition of Detica by BAE Systems in 2008 for £538m. 
These are two exciting appointments for Pinnacle and John and I wish them well in the years ahead. Being part of Pinnacle has 
been very rewarding. The telecommunications and technology markets are very demanding and require particular strength, 
perseverance and persistence from the Board and management to succeed. Alan Bonner and his team have achieved remarkable 
results over the past three years. The Company is now stronger today in its staff and services to continue to prosper. I look 
forward to Pinnacle’s continued success.  
 
 
Bill Allan 
CHAIRMAN 
20 February 2013
