  
 
 
 
  
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
 
 
 
“The Group has acquired additional core 
skills and continued to innovative. We are 
proud of the solutions we offer and of the 
progress we have made.” 
 
 
Bill Allan, Chairman 
 
 
This is my second year as Chairman of your company, and I am pleased to announce rapid growth and focused determination in the 
pursuit of our goals. We set objectives in 2010 to build a value added solutions based business of substance through the leverage of 
organic opportunities and targeted acquisitions. Since the beginning of that year your company has grown revenues by over 266% 
and broadened its appeal to a larger segment of the UK telecommunications market. More importantly, the transformation of 
Pinnacle from traditional telephony into a provider of IP and bespoke services has been successful and winning new business.  
This year the Group acquired MacLellan IT Limited and Multilayer Limited to complement our existing product set and skills. This 
activity was closely followed in October 2011 by the acquisitions of Online Computer Developments Limited and RMS Managed ICT 
Security Limited. We expect these acquisitions alone to add revenues of about £5 million during 2012. 
Although growth by acquisition consumes management time and focus, our organic growth and ability to innovate has not been 
neglected. This financial year we were proud to participate in some high profile and prestigious events where we provided voice and 
data solutions for the General Election, the Papal Visit to the UK, and the Royal Wedding. These events reinforce our ability to 
operate under pressure and to high levels of quality customer service. 
The Group continues to carefully manage its balance sheet and cash resources. Our maiden operating profit from last year more 
than doubled to £165,299, and positive net cashflow from operating activities was achieved for the first time. These were notable 
achievements. 
Our focus for this year is to integrate the acquisitions and build on our core strengths. We now have a product set that gives us 
additional profile in the market, with additional skills to enhance and develop our services for the years ahead. I have been greatly 
impressed by Alan Bonner and his team for their hard work and dedication. This has been a tough year for the UK - but a tough year 
in which your company became more strongly positioned to compete and grow its business in the UK telecommunication market. I 
look forward with optimism to the year ahead.  
Further detail and comment on the results for the full year are contained in the Chief Executive’s Review 
 
 
 
Bill Allan 
CHAIRMAN 
20 February 2012
Pinnacle Telecom Group plc
Page 2
