    
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW 
 
“2012 has been another solid performance.” 
“We are performing very well” 
 
 
Alan Bonner, Chief Executive Officer 
 
Introduction 
 
I am pleased to report that the Group has made significant progress in the last twelve months; once again, we have delivered a 
consistently strong performance and ongoing success in repositioning the business away from commoditised telecommunications 
markets towards the higher growth and higher margin IT managed services market. 
Despite the challenges of post-acquisition integration and difficult macro-economic market conditions, we are pleased to report 
material financial progress has been achieved in the year, delivering adjusted EBITDA including profit from acquisitions of 
£515,437, record sales of £12.7m, which is a 49% increase over last year, and a 61% increase in gross profit to £4m. 
Whilst the key focus of 2012 has been on consolidating our last four acquisitions, as with prior years, we have enjoyed a 
substantial increase in revenues over the year, which have been boosted as a result of driving organic growth from the acquired 
businesses. During the year we welcomed RMS Managed IT Security Limited and Online Computer Developments Limited into 
the Group and I am pleased to report that both businesses have now been fully integrated into Pinnacle's operations. 
It should be noted that our continuing success is as a result of a great deal of hard work, our team have done exceptionally well 
this year and I am extremely proud of the commitment and determination shown by all staff members.  
Strategy 
Background 
Prior to Pinnacle’s involvement on the AIM Market in June 2007, we had a four-phase plan:  
1) Join AIM through IPO or other means (we chose Glen Group plc); 
2) Acquire the companies, vendor agreements, intellectual property and talent, to build our own Managed Services 
Platform for growth, focusing on the high growth areas of IT security, IT Services, Cloud and Data solutions, Mobility and 
Telecommunications Connectivity. 
3) Aggregate our customers’ services onto Pinnacle’s platform (those services which we offer our customers, but are 
purchased by our customers from our competitors). This would be delivered as a result of cross-selling the enlarged 
Group’s services to our existing customer base. 
4) As a result of aggregating all our customers’ services onto Pinnacle’s Managed Services Platform, deliver new 
technology-based solutions that drive business transformation, agility, speed to market, and cost reduction for our 
customers.     
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW (CONTINUED) 
 
We have now entered phase three of our four-phase plan for growth. The phase three objective is to cross-sell the group’s 
services into our existing customer base, strengthening our customers’ reliance on Pinnacle, increasing our profit per customer 
and the ‘stickiness’ of our services. Our strategy is predicated on cross-selling the elements of our converged managed services 
offering, which is already delivering positive results. 
Name Change 
On 29
th
 March 2012, shareholders agreed to the Company's change of name from Pinnacle Telecom Group plc, to Pinnacle 
Technology Group plc. The change of name was effective from the 4
th
 April 2012. We also intend to change the FTSE sector from 
Fixed Line Communications to Software and Computer Services, which the Board believe better reflects the Group’s strategy. 
Growth 
Background 
Pinnacle had a single service offering (fixed line telephony) when we joined AIM in 2007. In 2008, we acquired Scotland’s oldest 
Internet Service Provider (“ISP”), which gave us Internet and core data network skills, and a public telecom operator’s license. In 
2009, we acquired a mobile and inbound calls business. In 2010, we acquired a Voice over IP (VoIP) platform and another ISP (in 
Brighton). In 2011, we acquired two IT support businesses, an IP CCTV business and an IT Security business.  
By October 2011, we had invested £2.4m (£0.7m cash - £1.7m shares) amassed 2,800 business customers and posted £8.5m of 
annual revenues and £2.6m of gross profit. By the beginning of October 2012, we had completed phase-two of our growth plan 
and developed our Managed Services Platform. We had also grown the acquired revenues by 51%, delivering combined revenues 
of £12.7m and grown the acquired gross profit by 48% to £4m, in the year to 30 September 2012. 
Market Segments 
IT Services 
Revenue grew 69% to £1,456,063 (2011: £863,464) representing 11% of group revenues at FY 30 Sept 2012 (2011: 10%). 
This area of the businesses provides expert advice and assistance to business customers in planning and designing computer 
solutions that integrate computer hardware, software, data and communication technologies. The emergence of new virtualised 
technologies, such as cloud computing, increases the requirement for internal IT support to be outsourced to third-party 
specialists, such as Pinnacle, and we are seeing good recurring revenue growth helping our customers to embrace new 
technologies, as well as being on hand to maintain, repair or replace internally managed hardware as part of the solution. 
 
The industry is rapidly moving towards providing managed services, which includes a combination of hardware provision, software 
development, installation and overseeing customers ‘technology hardware estate’. Whilst this segment is labour intensive, it 
recognises the service-orientated nature of the sector and the relatively high level of education and training that is required. 
IT Security Solutions 
Revenue grew 65,000% to £3,729,640 (2011: £5,712) representing 29% of group revenues at FY 30 Sept 2012 (2011: 0.07%).  
IT security was almost non-existent in our portfolio prior to 2012, however, through the acquisition of RMS Managed ICT Security 
Limited in October 2011, Pinnacle acquired one of the most respected and knowledgeable UK based organisations in this field. 
Combined with our experience in IT Services, voice and data networks, we specialise in providing testing, hardware, consultancy 
and application support to some of the most prestigious organisations in the UK.     
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW (CONTINUED) 
 
Over the past 6 years, business customers have witnessed an unprecedented number of IT intrusions or attempts to transfer data, 
national secrets, source code, databases, email archives, document stores, legal contracts, design schematics, and much more 
into the wrong hands. Unsolicited IT hacking is a risk to every company in every conceivable industry, with significant size or 
valuable intellectual property and trade secrets at risk. The great majority of the victims rarely discover the intrusion or its impact 
until it is too late. 
 
Cloud Services and Data Connectivity 
Revenue grew 25% to £2,930,336 (2011: £2,342,115) representing 23% of group revenues at FY 30 Sept 2012 (2011: 27%). 
In recent years, in order to maximise security and work efficiencies, the IT industry has driven change within the business 
community, encouraging customers to move their internally housed IT equipment and applications, out of the office and into a 
specialised virtual environment. As a host provider of cloud solutions, Pinnacle hosts and manages a variety of business software 
applications on servers that sit in the cloud, so that our customers, who use them as resources, can access them easily, paying 
for what they use, when they use it. This drives down the requirement for large capital expenditure projects and allows enterprises 
to concentrate their expenditure on key business activities. To facilitate fast access to these cloud services from customer sites, 
Pinnacle provides a full range of secure data connectivity solutions for business customers.  
 
As a fully licensed network provider, Pinnacle owns and manages its own core UK network infrastructure. By connecting 
customers to our core network using local tail connections from BT, TalkTalk or Virgin Media, we provide business customers with 
a private, managed and fully secure data network in order to run Internet, IP CCTV, video and voice applications. In recent years, 
this has expanded into other niche areas and we have also developed core skills in providing short-term voice, cloud and data 
solutions to event and media broadcasters, such as the BBC and CNN. 
 
 
Mobility Solutions 
Revenue reduced 5% to £538,702 (2011: £565,460) representing 4% of group revenues at FY 30 Sept 2012 (2011: 7%).  
Mobile phones, smartphones, tablets and mobile data devices are an integral part of how organisations now run their business. 
Many companies now have more mobile devices than PCs, all accessing valuable corporate resources. The ease with which a 
mobile device can be lost or stolen, and the inconsistent security policies that are applied to mobile devices means that there is 
significant demand to lock down and secure mobile devices and the applications running on them. Pinnacle provides a full range 
of mobile and mobile solutions from the main business mobile networks and hardware manufacturers.  
 
The rise in popularity of personal smartphone devices in the workplace is changing the way companies manage mobile devices in 
the office environment. The increased use of Non-IT managed, or supported mobile devices accessing corporate resources is 
known as a bring-your-own-device (BYOD) culture. Allowing personal devices to access corporate data in this way introduces new 
problems to the business. Pinnacle work with our business customers to ensure that all devices attached to the corporate network 
are identified, registered and managed, so that IT managers can securely control network and data access. 
 
The reduction in revenues in the year reflects the reduced commissions on offer from the major UK mobile networks, who have 
moved away from a fixed commission model to a commission based on share of spend. We expect mobile revenues to increase in 
future years as we look to cross-sell additional services in to our existing customer base.  
     
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW (CONTINUED) 
 
Telecommunications 
Revenue reduced 15% to £4,055,705 (2011: £4,745,328) representing 32% of group revenues at FY 30 Sept 2012 (2011: 56%).  
No other industry touches as many technology-related business sectors as telecommunications, which, by definition, 
encompasses not only the traditional areas of telephone services, but also advanced technology-based services including 
wireless communications, the Internet, fibre-optics and satellites. Whilst there is little sign that revenues in the telecommunications 
sector will disappear altogether, our focus here has been two-fold. Firstly, on IP cloud based telephony, particularly Session 
Initiation Protocol (“SIP”) as clients begin to migrate to SIP from ISDN30 and secondly, on Voice over IP (“VoIP”).  
Fixed-line telecommunications are vital to most of our customers. Mobile phones, though extremely convenient, are still quite 
unreliable in terms of service and are therefore not a complete alternative for many customers. VoIP, though inexpensive when 
compared to fixed-line telephony, has not yet gained full confidence from the customer. Nonetheless, customers will continue to 
adopt new telephony technologies at a steady rate over time, in the same way that they adopted new Internet services like online 
banking and shopping via e-commerce websites over a relatively short time period.  
The reduction in revenues this year is a reflection of the industry move towards an overall reduction in call tariffs to end users, 
mainly in the cost of calls from landlines to mobiles, which we welcome. These regulatory changes reduce the wholesale price that 
the major mobile providers charge us for using their networks. In turn, these savings are passed on to our customers in the form of 
lower call tariffs. Given the general move towards lowering margins, the reduction in revenues also reflects the impact of the 
decision in 2011 by the Group, to withdraw our own wholesale product from sale to other telecommunications resellers. 
For Pinnacle, telecommunications is a cash cow, however, over the next ten years, we do see most companies moving from 
traditional voice to VoIP solutions.  
Future Growth 
Cross-selling 
As mentioned above, our strategy is predicated on cross-selling the elements of our converged managed services offering. Put 
simply, this means selling more services to our existing customers. Currently, on average, our customers buy 1.4 services from 
Pinnacle; our short-term aim is to increase that average to 3. In percentage terms, our target is to achieve 60% of our customers 
buying more than one service from Pinnacle; achieving this goal will have a significant positive impact on our business. Currently, as 
a result of strategically acquiring single service companies, only 23% of our customers are buying more than one service from us. 
This represents a huge growth opportunity for the Company. 
Recruitment 
 
We have segmented our customers by geographic region and employee size (Enterprise, Corporate, SMB and 5 Vertical Sectors). 
We now supply services to around 3,000 customers across 14 geographic regions in the UK. We currently have 15 sales people 
across the business, however, to achieve our target of supplying 3 Pinnacle services per customer, and to help us better account 
manage our customers across the regions, we need to recruit additional Enterprise and Corporate facing account managers. For 
SMB and Vertical Sector clients, we need to recruit additional internal based account managers. We hope to have completed the 
recruitment by the summer of 2013.     
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW (CONTINUED) 
 
Acquisitions 
On the 5
th
 October 2011 we completed the acquisition of Online Computer Developments Limited (“OCD”). OCD, an IT Support 
Company based in Glasgow, brought us an additional team of technical staff with a wide range of desktop, server and 
virtualisation experience. All our research shows that these are the areas where customers will increase spend over the next five 
years. Equally important, OCD gave us a stronger foothold in the IT services market as we look to expand this offering across the 
UK in 2013.  
On the 9
th
 October 2011, we completed the acquisition of RMS Managed ICT Security Limited (“RMS”). RMS, a specialist IT 
Security Company based in Stoke-on-Trent, had at the time of acquisition, been voted McAfee Partner of the Year and boasts a 
customer base of some of the most prestigious and well-respected organisations in the UK. These larger enterprise and corporate 
customers trust and rely on RMS to deliver and manage their IT security solutions and lock down their networks from attack and 
vulnerability. RMS has a very different customer profile to the rest of the group companies and we see this as an opportunity to 
develop high-end cross-selling opportunities of the enlarged customer portfolio into this sector. 
 
Whilst a large percentage of the RMS revenues come from recurring IT security software solutions, our value-add in this growing 
market is professional services. We differentiate in this area through our expertise from pre-sale design, through to regular 
health-checks, audits, stress testing, ongoing training and service management. We invest a lot of business resources to ensure 
that our engineers are fully accredited and trained in all current and developing technologies, and our relationship with our Vendor 
partners is key in this respect. 
 
Since our involvement on AIM in 2007, we have invested a total of £2.4m over nine acquisitions (£0.7m cash & £1.7m shares), 
acquiring £8.4m of revenue and £2.7m of gross profit. This was phase-two, of our four-phase plan as described above. All 
acquisitions were strategic in nature, component parts as we built our Managed Service Platform. As phase-two is now complete, 
we can financially demonstrate the value of these acquisitions, having organically grown the acquired revenues by 51%, from 
£8.4m to £12.7m. In line with revenue growth, the acquired gross profit has increased by 48%, from £2.6m to £4m.  
Exceptional costs relating to acquisitions 
In this financial year, £766,846 of cash was invested in one-off acquisition costs (made up of £564,292 of cash relating to 
severance and redundancy costs and £202,554 of cash relating to purchase consideration). It should be emphasised that these 
are one-off costs that will not occur again.  
 
It is also worth noting that acquisitions require us to consider whether the goodwill that we have acquired (basically the difference 
between the net assets of the business acquired and the price paid) should be recognised and allocated in our financial statements 
as other intangible assets, such as a customer base, billing system and so on, which would not necessarily be recognised in the 
accounts of the acquired business. Also, IFRS accounting requires us to carefully consider the carrying value of our intangible assets 
and forces amortisation of these assets. We view these adjustments as technical, and they have no bearing on cash.  
 
 
Accordingly, we believe that the best measure of operating profit 
or loss should be adjusted EBITDA plus the profit from the 
acquisition of OCD. IFRS operating profit or loss forces charges 
in the year for Amortisation of Intangible Assets (£464,960), 
Depreciation (£153,049), Impairment of intangible assets 
(£410,290), Exceptional costs relating to acquisitions 
(£564,292), Share based payments (£13,921) and embedded 
fair value in convertible loans (£11,229). 
 
 Adjusted EBITDA  
 £284,554 
Add Back  
Profit relating to bargain purchase of OCD £140,883 
Profit from contingent consideration of OCD £90,000 
  
EBITDA plus profit from acquisition of OCD £515,437 
 
     
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW (CONTINUED) 
Supply Agreement with Atos  
On 14
th
 November 2011, we announced that the Group had entered into a supply agreement with Atos, a leading international IT 
services company and Worldwide IT Partner for the Olympic and Paralympic Games. Pinnacle supply Atos with short-term 
communications and data services. Atos is a leading international IT services company generating annual revenues of EUR 8.7 
billion, employing 78,500 people in more than 42 countries around the world. Atos was also the Worldwide IT Partner for the Olympic 
and Paralympic Games and lead IT consultant for the London Olympic Games, working with the London Organising Committee of 
the Olympic and Paralympic Games. 
Global Interconnect Agreement 
Also in November 2011, we announced that the Group entered into an agreement with CMC Networks (“CMC”) for an interconnect 
into CMC’s Global Fibre Network. The interconnect strengthens the Group’s capability in the provision of IP and cloud-based 
solutions for the broadcasting industry, Pinnacle entered into an agreement that allows Pinnacle to interconnect into CMC’s Global 
Fibre Network. 
CMC, established in 1999 in South Africa, are recognised as a global leader in providing connectivity in hard to reach and “no go” 
zones. By combining the CMC interconnect with Pinnacle's data network, Pinnacle are now able to offer its customers a direct fibre 
interconnect to most capital cities across the world, but also including Vsat, SANet, MENet, AFNet and GLNet. 
These interconnects can be set up for short or long durations – from a single day’s event, or longer term events including long term 
connections. Pinnacle and CMC interconnect from Telehouse in London and will be able to offer services and connections (including 
broadcast streams) to businesses and broadcasters on a world-wide basis. 
High-Profile Contracts 
This year, once again, saw us deliver connectivity solutions to numerous media events across the UK, supporting multimedia 
broadcasts to countries all over the world. 
Queen's Jubilee Celebrations and the Olympic and Paralympic Games 
For the Queen's Diamond Jubilee celebrations, Pinnacle successfully supplied secure data network services for BBC news, BBC 
International and BBC Events, CNN and Globecast. These organisations in turn supplied broadcasters from France, Germany and 
Australia using Pinnacle's services. Over 120 data circuits were installed at Buckingham Palace, Canada Gate, Green Park, 
Tower Bridge, Victoria Embankment, The Mall, Battersea Park, Tate Modern, Wellington Barracks, Knightsbridge Barracks, 
Billingsgate, Whitehall, The Palace of Westminster, St Paul's, Convoys Wharf and Trafalgar Square. 
2012 will also be remembered as the year London hosted the Olympic and Paralympic Games, and it was with great excitement that 
the Group announced that it had entered into a supply agreement with the BBC to provide data, connectivity and voice services to 
BBC International and its world media partners, enabling worldwide broadcast coverage of the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic 
Games. 
The London 2012 Olympic Games delivered the biggest national television event since current measuring systems began, with 
51.9m (90% of the UK population) watching at least 15 minutes of coverage. 24.2m (42% of the UK population) also watched at 
least 15 minutes of coverage on the BBC Red Button. 
Under the terms of this agreement, the BBC offered international broadcasters from around the world the ability to broadcast from 
the Stratford Broadcast Tower; a 22-storey building situated at the edge of the Olympic Park with commanding views overlooking the 
Olympic Stadium, the Aquatics Centre and the Orbit Tower. Pinnacle supplied BBC International with the resilient fibre connections;      
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW (CONTINUED) 
Olympic and Paralympic Games (continued) 
 
microwave back-up links, analogue and ISDN connectivity. Pinnacle also supplied IP telephone switchboards, telephone handsets 
and data connections to Stratford Broadcast Tower's offices, studios and production crews for the world's media. In addition to TV 
broadcasts, the BBC delivered its most successful online event ever, attracting a record-breaking 55m global browsers to BBC 
Sport online (cumulative reach) throughout the course of the Games, and marking London 2012 as the first truly digital Games. 
This mirrored the BBC’s record Olympic TV reach, across both linear TV channels and Red Button, with over 51.9m viewers in the 
UK - the largest TV audience reach for a major event for at least 10 years.  
Through our agreement with Atos, our interconnect agreements with CMC, both signed during this year, and other international data 
carriers, Pinnacle enabled the BBC and its international broadcast partners at the London Olympics Stratford Broadcast Tower, to 
have direct point-to-point fibre connections to most capital cities around the world. Pinnacle delivered the transmission of Olympic 
and Paralympic Games broadcast images and sound, direct to the broadcaster's own country for editing and re-transmission around 
the world. 
We expect to continue to win future contracts of this nature and we are delighted to have fostered such a strong relationship with 
the BBC. 
Board Changes 
As reported in the Chairman’s Statement, both Bill Allan and John Anderson have decided to retire from the Board and will not be 
seeking re-election at the forthcoming AGM. I have had the pleasure of working with John since he joined the Board in 2008, he 
has served us well and his support and counsel will be missed. Bill took the Chair in March 2010 and the last three years working 
alongside Bill have been inspirational, I wish them both well and would like to take this opportunity to thank them for their support 
and all that they have given the Company. 
I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome Dr James Dodd to the Board as Non-Executive Chairman and also Dr Tom 
Black, as Non-Executive Director. I am excited about the prospect of working alongside James and Tom and look forward to the 
future with great optimism. 
Summary 
”As we continue to invest to reposition the business for the future, the Group has made good progress and performance in the 
current economic climate. Our commitment to investment in people will continue and we are well positioned to deliver value to 
shareholders through the achievement of our stated strategy. After carefully considering Pinnacle’s growth and strategic 
objectives, we believe that a share consolidation could prove beneficial to the company and its shareholders, as a result, we will 
be seeking approval for a 1-for-100 share consolidation at the forthcoming AGM on 26 March 2013. 
“There are good reasons to be optimistic; the business has invested £766,846 of cash this year in one-off acquisition costs, 
produced record sales of £12.7m and adjusted EBITDA including profit from acquisitions of £515,437, despite one of the most 
challenging trading environments. We’ve also grown our acquired revenues by 51% and grown our acquired gross profit by 48%. 
We enter the new financial year in a strong position, having secured £2.95m of cash following new share issues post year-end. 
Our financial strength will enable us to continue to invest and reposition the business, and despite the current economic 
conditions, we intend to make further investment in our sales teams to take advantage of the opportunities we have to increase 
our market share. Whilst the results of our cross-selling strategy may take some time to deliver, we are confident that the actions 
we have taken to date and the strategy we are pursuing will ensure the Group continues to prosper.” 
 
Alan J Bonner 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
20 February 2013
