  
 
 
 
  
 
“Pinnacle 
has 
continued to 
win new 
contracts 
and seek 
new areas for 
organic 
growth.”
 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
 
 
 
 
“It has been a tough year for the UK economy, but it has 
been a rewarding and successful year for Pinnacle.” 
 
 
 
 
 
Bill Allan, Chairman 
 
This has been my first year as your Chairman.  It has been a tough year for the UK economy, but it has 
been a rewarding and successful year for Pinnacle.  Over the year your company has continued to 
improve its financial and operational performance from organic growth and a successful acquisition 
strategy. 
 
The acquisition of Solwise Telephony Limited and its subsidiary Sipswitch Limited, in January 2010, 
have been successfully integrated.  Back office systems and processes have been simplified, with 
billing rationalised into a single platform.  The legal organisational structures from the various entities 
acquired or merged into Pinnacle over the years have also been rationalised, simplifying accounting 
and administration.  For a small company, these were two major accomplishments this year that 
absorbed a considerable amount of management time and focus.  Nevertheless, they provide a more 
robust and efficient operating platform for future growth and expansion. 
 
In addition to the above, Pinnacle has continued to win new contracts and seek new areas for organic 
growth.  Your company’s success in providing bespoke solutions to its customers is an area we seek to 
leverage this year.  The short-term contracts with the BBC mentioned at the half-year resulted in further 
business including supporting the telecommunications for Pope Benedict XVI’s visit to the U.K.  These 
were high profile events that demonstrated confidence in Pinnacle’s systems and people.  
 
The successful share placing in September 2010 has improved your company’s financial standing and 
working capital needs for organic growth.  As a Board we are also conscious that value enhancing 
opportunities for growth by acquisition involve considerable resource and time commitments. However, 
we will continue to be prudent as we seek new growth to enhance your company’s capability as a 
provider of IP and bespoke services and solutions into the UK SME market.. 
 
Finally, my thanks to Alan Bonner and all his staff for their enthusiasm and hard work this year.  Further 
detail and comment on the results for the full year are contained in the Chief Executive’s Review.  I look 
forward to the year ahead. 
 
Bill Allan 
CHAIRMAN 
21 February 2011 
Pinnacle Telecom Group plc
Page 2 
