  
 
 
 
  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
 
“2011 has been another very successful year.” 
“Our strategy is working” 
 
Alan Bonner, Chief Executive Officer 
 
Introduction 
I am delighted to report that our strategy is working and 2011 has been another very successful year.  
Over the last few years, we have seen a convergence of technologies from the IT, data, telecoms and mobile industries, and in 
2010, through the leverage of organic opportunities and targeted acquisitions, we set about transforming Pinnacle Telecom Group 
Plc from a well respected telecommunications service provider, into a converged managed services provider. Convergence in our 
space is where a combination of multiple technologies comes together in a new form; to create secure, next generation IP based 
solutions. Where previously separate IT, telecoms, connectivity, mobile, and data services have been merged into a single 
multi-media solution, we have seen that customers have been able to deliver increased productivity at a much lower cost, which 
enables them to differentiate themselves from their competitors in their chosen market. The delivery of a single multi-media solution 
allows us to deliver converged managed services for our customers, specifically tailored to their business needs across their whole 
organisation. 
 
We are convinced that Pinnacle will continue to differentiate itself through the delivery of our converged managed services strategy 
and by cross-selling solutions to our customers. In our view, it is not acceptable to promote a single product alone; today’s 
customers demand value for money and search out suppliers who can deliver flexible solutions. Customers are busy and know 
what they want – namely a supplier who can understand their needs, will evaluate the technology, design, implement and manage a 
solution that delivers against their objectives. 
Strategy 
Our strategy is predicated on cross-selling the five elements of our converged managed services offering (as detailed below), and is 
now delivering positive results. The objective is to cross-sell all of the group’s services into our existing customer base, which 
strengthens our customer's reliance on the company, increases our profit per customer and dramatically decreases the likelihood of 
our customer’s switching to a competitor. 
Converged managed services offering  
1) Managed Support Services 
2) Unified Communications and Collaboration 
3) Communications and Mobility 
4) Software as a Service (SaaS) 
5) Infrastructure services 
Pinnacle Telecom Group plc
Page 3  
 
 
 
  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (CONTINUED) 
1) Managed Support Services 
Managed Support Services focuses on IT support and consists of five revenue streams, 1) installation and deployment, 2) desktop 
support, 3) server support, 4) network support and 5) break/fix 
We realised that in order to roll out our converged managed services strategy; we needed to increase our IT capability across the 
group. To this end, we successfully acquired MacLellan IT in August 2011 and followed that with the acquisition of Online Computer 
Developments in October 2011, these two acquisitions have been integrated into our previous IT business of Explore IT Ltd. 
With these recent acquisitions, we have set about increasing our overall IT revenues from the group’s customers, and in line with 
our objectives to move our revenues from being almost exclusively generated from traditional telephony, into revenues generated 
from a converged managed service offering, 2011 certainly signals a shift in the allocation of business resources to this objective. 
At 30 September 2011, we have seen a quantum shift in the cost of group resources dedicated to our IT offerings, increasing from 
£639,855 in 2010 to £1,542,881 in September 2011 and further demonstrates our commitment in this regard. We hope that in 2012, 
revenues from Managed Support Services will be much closer to the combined revenues from Mobile and Telecoms. 
2) Unified communications & collaboration 
Unified communications and collaboration consists of six revenue streams, 1) hosted voice (VoIP), 2) conferencing services,  
3) call centre applications, 4) inbound call services, 5) mobility solutions, 6) call recording solutions. 
In order to deploy our unified communications offering, we acquired Solwise Telephony and Sipswitch in January 2010. 
Through successful delivery of our unified communications and collaboration solutions, we earn trust from our customers, which in 
turn leads to new opportunities for us to supply additional services or bid for new contracts. It is through this cycle that we earn our 
status as a Trusted Advisor to our customers. We have seen the results of this approach by building solutions for some high profile 
and prestigious events, including voice and data solutions for the UK General Election and Papal Visit in 2010 and of course the 
Royal Wedding in 2011. 
3) Connectivity and mobility 
Pinnacle’s heritage is in connectivity and mobility, which consists of seven revenue streams. 1) Broadband services, 2) MPLS,  
3) Ethernet, 4) SIP Trunks, 5) Voice minutes, 6) Fixed line rental, 7) Mobile services 
Whilst on the face of it there seems little to measure between competing offerings in a crowded market, in the area of connectivity 
and mobility, we challenge the bigger players through our value proposition and have increased revenues whilst maintaining 
margins. For us to deliver solutions in this way, we need exceptional people and robust vendor relationships. We also need a deep 
understanding and control of the underlying technologies that come together to make the connectivity solution. Our preference is to 
own the solution from end-to-end, but where we do have to partner; we make sure that we select only the best vendors, those who 
can support us to deliver a seamless service to the customer. 
4) Software as a Service (Saas) 
SaaS is the new world of cloud computing, it allows us to leverage our data centre assets and deliver recurring revenue, which is 
derived from monthly subscriptions by customers having access to software applications that are hosted in the cloud and residing in 
our data centres. There are eight revenue streams to our Saas offering; 1) Security, 2) Digital content; 3) Vertical markets, 4) CRM, 
5) Business process, 6) Supply chain, 7) Business intelligence, 8) Business productivity suites.  
Buoyed by lower start-up and maintenance costs compared to on-premises application deployments, as well as the ability to 
distribute and share applications and documents through the cloud, businesses appetite for SaaS applications is increasing and will 
become a large percentage of the group’s turnover over time, particularly in the hosted desktop and CRM space. 
 
Pinnacle Telecom Group plc
Page 4  
 
 
 
  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (CONTINUED) 
5) Infrastructure Services 
Infrastructure services are another opportunity for us to leverage our data centre assets. Consisting of the following four revenue 
streams; 1) Colocation and hosting, 2) Platforms as a service (PaaS), 3) Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), 4, Data security – data 
backup, disaster recovery, business continuity. 
A good example of leveraging our data centre assets is the acquisition of an IP CCTV business we made in July 2011. The UK 
CCTV market was an area that we felt we needed to break into because we see it as essentially an ISP business, this allows us to 
host the required IP CCTV hardware in our data centres at no extra cost to the company. 
Most businesses demand round the clock CCTV surveillance from external monitoring companies and it was these monitoring 
companies that we sought to target as we entered this new service area. However, the key differentiator for us was service 
resilience. By offering a reliable IP connection with failsafe technology to 2G and 3G as a backup, we have developed a unique and 
innovative solution, combining IP and 2G/3G data into a single solution with seamless automatic failover. We now deliver a 
completely outsourced remote security and surveillance service, sending threat alerts back to the control centre. With this offering, 
we now supply Sotheby’s, Unipart and Hilton Hotels to name but a few and look to develop these services further during the coming 
months and years. 
Each of the five key elements in our converged managed services offering above make use of the skills and expertise we have 
developed in each of the three underlying industry disciplines of Mobile, IT and telecommunications services. You will find a 
breakdown of the performance in each discipline in Note 4 to the accounts. 
 
Our strategy of cross-selling our customers the five elements of our converged managed services, differentiates us from our 
competitors who in the main only sell products. We sell solutions, a mutually agreed-upon answer to a customers’ problem with 
measurable, often transformational improvements.  
Growth 
By effectively executing our strategy, we managed to follow up on the success of last year and more than doubled the maiden 
operating profit we achieved in 2010 (before amortisation and exceptional costs), delivering £165,299 for the year to 2011 (2010: 
£78,647). There is often a balance for a growing company like ours, between profit preservation and investment in growth, but I am 
satisfied that we have achieved a good mix and believe we have given ourselves a solid base on which to grow in 2012.  
In 2011 we achieved revenue growth of 29% over the previous year, delivering £8,522,079 of sales for the period. With 84% of 
turnover now coming from monthly recurring contracts, this stable and recurring revenue base allows us to grow the business in 
other more opportunistic and one-off areas, such a government contracts, education, health and the financial and professional 
service sectors. Of course, we always look to supplement one-off sales with new and ongoing contracts for support, maintenance 
and professional services, however, as we execute our plan to cross-sell converged managed services for our customers, I would 
expect to see the volume of recurring revenues grow overall, but I also expect to see the percentage of non-recurring revenues 
increase in 2012. 
2011 has also been another very successful year from our telecommunications revenues, which grew by a further 33% over 2010 
levels to just under £7m. Much of this increase in turnover was as a result of further developing our partnership with the BBC, other 
world broadcasters, media and event companies. 
2011 year saw our revenues from mobile sales fall 15% on 2010 levels, down to £565,460 from £663,551 in 2010. This reflects the 
overall reduction seen in the commercial terms being offered to business partners from the mobile networks, plus a general fall in 
mobile hardware refresh rates from our customers. Mobile network providers have also moved away from connection bonuses, 
onto a longer-term revenue share model, which realigns our sales efforts and rewards high retention rates. 
Gross margin from revenues fell from 30.4% in 2010, to 28.9% in 2011, in the main; this was due to lower margins from inbound 
non-geographic numbers, which followed a reduction in call rates to 0845 and 0870 numbers. Overall though, with the introduction 
of higher margin professional service revenues towards the later part of 2011 and continuing into 2012, we expect to be able to 
maintain regular margins in excess of 30% on an ongoing basis.  
Pinnacle Telecom Group plc
Page 5  
 
 
 
  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (CONTINUED) 
In 2011, due to an increase in headcount as a result of recent acquisitions, we saw a 14% increase in Administration Expenses of 
£288,420 over 2010. As business customers increasingly adopt converged technologies, combining telephony and IT into a single 
managed solution, we recognise the importance of increasing our intellectual capital as an organisation. Our sales effort stretches 
across the UK and we increasingly need technical staff to support our customer solutions across the country. We have seen that the 
SME market prefers to outsource IT and technical development of their business systems to specialist managed service providers 
such as Pinnacle and it is this space that we seek to develop further. 
It is a testimony to the staff within Pinnacle that since September 2009, we have achieved 266% increase in revenues with only a 
52% increase in Administration Expenses over the same period. 
We still strive to achieve our first overall positive profit before tax, but the amortisation of acquired intangible assets as a result of 
growing partly through acquisition, creates a challenge in that respect. Nonetheless, we remain convinced that a strategy of 
acquiring complementary products, people and innovation into the group at the right price delivers enhanced shareholder value.  
Customer Retention 
We strive for excellence in our service delivery whilst constantly looking to improve the way we do business; this approach enables 
us to increase the value in our service offering, and in this way, we successfully punch above our weight and win business from 
much larger competitors. However, we never underestimate the importance of excellent customer account management, and 
retention is a key area of focus within a service sector like ours. We regularly monitor the retention of customers on a monthly basis. 
For a business like ours, where we always look to cross-sell multiple product solutions to our customers, this is an important 
measure of our success and client surveys give us valuable insight into our customer experience. 
 
Each year as part of the audit, we are required to look in detail at the performance of acquired customers who have come into the 
group. This year and for the second year running, as a result of buying additional products and services from other group 
companies, we have seen that customer bases acquired in 2009 and 2010 have actually increased their overall revenue with the 
group. This most recent customer retention review prompted us to amend our intangible asset amortisation policy for acquired 
customer bases post September 2008, as the Directors felt that writing the value of these customer bases down to the profit and 
loss account over a period of five years was too aggressive, given the actual positive retention rates seen. We have therefore, 
chosen to amortise the remaining value of customer bases and intellectual property acquired since September 2008 over the 
maximum allowed of ten years. This change reduced the amortisation charge in the period by £82,702. 
 
As our strategy of cross-selling the five elements of our converged managed services proposition takes hold, it is becoming more 
and more common for customers to take service from many areas of our offering within three years of joining us. This is testimony 
to our account management and customer service efforts. Cross-selling increases our profit per customer and dramatically 
decreases the likelihood of our customer’s switching to a competitor, thereby improving our customer retention. 
Acquisitions 
It has been a successful year on the acquisition front, the range of products and services that we now have in our portfolio allows us 
to offer converged managed solutions, covering all areas of design, implementation, training and ongoing management. We have a 
track record of successfully integrating acquisitions into the group and these additions further increased the group’s intellectual 
capital and technical service offering. We are fortunate to have assembled such a great team of skilled and motivated individuals. 
The acquisition of an IP CCTV business in July 2011 allowed us to break into the CCTV market. In 2010, the value of the CCTV 
market is believed to have increased by an estimated 3% to £1.2bn. We see IP CCTV as essentially an ISP business; this allows us 
to host the required IP CCTV hardware in our data centres at no extra cost to the company.  
Pinnacle Telecom Group plc
Page 6  
 
 
 
  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (CONTINUED) 
The acquisitions of MacLellan IT Limited and Online Computer Developments Limited in August 2011 and October 2011 
respectively, were important milestones. It is one thing to develop and sell innovative technical solutions to our customers, but the 
implementation and post-sales support of these solutions is arguably the most important value added service. These acquisitions 
brought us a solid base of technical staff with a wide range of desktop, server and virtualisation experience. All our research shows 
that these are the areas where customers will increase spend over the next five years. Equally important, these acquisitions give us 
a strong foothold in the IT services market in Scotland, expanding our reach across Glasgow, Edinburgh and Fife, from our offices 
in Paisley, Glasgow and Dunfermline. This puts us in the right place, working hand in hand with our customers to deliver new 
technologies into their business as they grow and granting us trusted advisor status with all of our customers. 
This move to develop IT revenues by your Company does not mean that we have forsaken our traditional telephony background. 
We are experts in connectivity and voice solutions. It is this experience gained over many years, which when coupled with our IT 
expertise, puts us in first place to cross-sell converged managed solutions to the UK business community. There is no sign that 
revenues in the telephony sector will disappear, although ultimately, over the next ten years, we do see most companies moving 
from traditional voice, to voice over IP solutions. For us, traditional telephony is the cash generative elder in our portfolio of services 
and gives us the free cash flow to invest in new and emerging solution based revenues. 
On the 9th October 2011, we successfully completed the acquisition of RMS Managed ICT Security Limited (“RMS”), which was 
recently voted McAfee Partner of the Year and can boast a customer base of some of the most prestigious and well-respected 
organisations in the world. These larger corporate customers trust and rely on RMS to deliver and manage their security solutions 
and lock down their networks from attack. We are truly delighted to have secured this acquisition, RMS has a very different 
customer profile to the rest of the group companies and we see this as an opportunity to develop high-end cross-selling 
opportunities of the enlarged customer portfolio into this sector. 
 
Whilst a large percentage of the RMS revenues come from recurring security software solutions, our value-add in this growing 
market is professional services. We differentiate in this area through our expertise from pre-sale design, through to regular 
health-checks, audits, stress testing, ongoing training and service management. We invest a lot of business resources to ensure 
sure that our engineers are fully accredited and trained in all current and developing technologies, and our relationship with our 
Vendor partners is key in this respect. 
 
Whilst I expect to grow revenues organically, we will continue to seek out well-priced and timely acquisitions in synergistic markets 
to help underpin our organic growth efforts.  
High-Profile Contracts 
This year saw us deliver connectivity solutions to over 170 media events across the UK, supporting broadcasts to countries all over 
the world. None were more memorable than the voice and data broadcasting solutions we supplied for the Royal Wedding in April 
2011. This event captured the hearts of the nation and enthralled the rest of the world in a display of true British ceremony. It was a 
major contract win for us and whilst it was extremely high-profile, it came with no margin for error. For the BBC, CNN (USA), Seven 
Network (Australia) and Global Television Network (Canada), we supplied services opposite Buckingham Palace at Canada Gate, 
the Mall and Horse Guards Road, along Whitehall and Downing Street and opposite Westminster Abbey,. I am extremely proud of 
the solution that we delivered at this historic event. I am delighted to report that the solutions we deployed were delivered without a 
glitch. 
 
This year also saw us move into data and connectivity market for UK sporting events with the development of a new relationship 
with IMG Media (“IMG”). IMG is the world's largest independent producer and distributor of sports programming. For IMG in 2011 
we delivered for voice and data networks for The Women’s Golf Open at Carnoustie, the Dunhill Links Championship at Carnoustie, 
St Andrews and Kingsbarns, and the Johnnie Walker Classic Championship held at Gleneagles. 
We expect to continue to win contracts of this nature and were delighted to announce (post year-end) our involvement in the 
London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games. 
Pinnacle Telecom Group plc
Page 7  
 
 
 
  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (CONTINUED) 
Summary 
 
In summary, 2011 has been another very successful year. 
We have progressed with our strategy to build a converged managed services business of scale, by cross-selling our customers the 
five elements of our converged managed services proposition and we are now starting to see positive results coming through. 
In the year ended 30 September 2011, we increased our operating profit by 110%, EBITDA by 67%, gross profit by 18% and 
turnover by 29%. We have now delivered 740% growth in turnover since 2007 and at the same time enhanced shareholder value. 
In July we acquired the Business and Assets of an IP CCTV business delivering combined resilient and "always on" IP and 3G 
connectivity, for high-profile IP CCTV monitoring. We now supply companies such as Sotheby’s, Unipart and Hilton Hotels. In 
August we acquired the Business and Assets of MacLellan IT Limited, a well established profitable IT company for 186,046,491 
shares at a premium of 58% per share, equivalent to £669,767. MacLellan are delivering increased IT consultancy and support 
revenues in Scotland. 
We continue to supply the BBC with voice and data services for high-profile and prestigious events, delivering solutions to over 170 
media events in 2011, which included the Royal Wedding. We also have confirmed orders in place for the London 2012 Olympic 
and Paralympic Games, supporting the BBC as the host broadcaster to the world’s media. 
As a small company surrounded by industry giants, we continually punch above our weight and I would like to take this opportunity 
to thank each and everyone who contributed to the result in 2011. We can be extremely proud of the solutions that have been 
deployed and the service we deliver to our customers.  
Importantly however, whilst the period to 30th September 2011 has been a very successful year, we have made significant 
progress post year-end. Our strategy is working and I look forward to further updating you of our progress as the year unfolds. 
 
 
 
Alan J Bonner 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
20 February 2012 
Pinnacle Telecom Group plc
Page 8
