 6
This has been a successful year for ARM and 
an exciting year for me. On 1 July 2013, I 
succeeded Warren East to become ARM’s 
Chief Executive Officer and lead the Group 
through its next stage of development. In his 
12 years in charge, Warren oversaw:
  ARM’s strategy to transform mobile 
phones into smartphones and evolving 
into tablet computers.
  ARM technology being chosen for 
use beyond mobile devices, with our 
customers deploying ARM-based chips 
in everything from sensors to servers.
  More than 45 billion ARM-based chips 
shipped by 150 companies during 
his tenure.
  ARM broadening its technology offering to 
include a range of processors for different 
end markets, including graphics processors, 
and supporting physical IP technology and 
software tools.
2013 was my 23rd year at ARM, as I was 
one of ARM’s original handful of engineers 
embarking upon a new business designing 
processors. That small business has now 
grown into a global technology leader 
with 2,833 employees. ARM’s success over 
the years is in no small part down to our 
collaborative approach in how we manage 
ourselves internally and in how we work with 
our industry partners. 
As the new CEO of ARM, I know that 
retaining our leadership position is going to 
be, at times, both challenging and exciting. 
I am very grateful for the guidance and 
support I have received from our Chairmen 
(both retiring and incoming) and my 
colleagues on the Board since I took on the 
CEO role. The hard work and support of our 
executive team and all of ARM’s employees 
has also been significant to our continuing 
success, as is the trust of our Partners that 
ARM will continue to provide them with the 
best technology for their products. The future 
holds even more opportunity for ARM and 
for our Partners as they invest in innovation, 
and create technologies for decades to come.
cH ieF executive’ S Statement
viSiOn FOr tHe Future
ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013 7
From mobile phones to the internet 
of things
ARM technology can be found in billions of 
mobile and connected devices. In 2013 alone 
more than one billion smartphones shipped, 
growing the installed base to approximately 
two billion, and the smartphone market 
is forecast to grow at a 10% Compound 
Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) over the 
next five years. 
The impact of mobility and connectivity 
brings new levels of freedom to consumers 
to access their data, and much more besides. 
New products and services have been 
created, such as downloadable apps and 
content, and devices that can be wirelessly 
attached to or controlled by a smartphone. 
Expanded mobile networks are being 
deployed and new data centres are being 
developed as we download more content 
and generate more data. And now other 
products and devices are being connected 
to networks such as healthcare equipment, 
shipping containers, white goods in the 
home, industrial equipment and even light 
bulbs. T ogether, these factors are leading to 
the creation of a massive “Internet of Things”.
internet of thin gs
T o better understand the business drivers for 
the Internet of Things, we commissioned a 
report from the Economist Intelligence Unit. 
Go to www.arm.com/IOT to download 
the report.
Go to www.arm.com/IOT  
to download the report.
ARM is well positioned to take advantage 
of the growth in the mobile devices market, 
to benefit as new networks and data centres 
are built, and to be the primary technology 
within embedded computing and the 
Internet of Things.
meeting global challenges
Digital technology based on smarter 
electronics has played a huge role in making 
today’s society a better place for all of us. 
Technology has an even greater role in the 
challenges that lie ahead. Over the next few 
pages we look at some of those challenges 
and how technology is already helping to 
overcome them.
One of the best things about being 
CEO of ARM is seeing our 
technology used in many of the most 
innovative products available today. 
Simon Segars
Chief Executive Officer
Our vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
8
For more information on technology in health and wellness: 
Daniel Kraft, MD, presenting the “Future of T echnology in 
Health & Medicine” at ARM’s T echCon 2013
For more information on how ARM and HP are working together 
in this area: Martin Fink, CTO HP Labs, presenting on “The New 
Style of IT & HP’s Moonshot” at ARM’s T echCon 2013
For more information on how the internet of things can make 
the world a better and more efficient place: Nandini Ramani, 
VP Java Platform at Oracle presenting “Enabling Compelling 
Services for IoT” at ARM’s T echCon 2013
HP Moonshot: Based on chips using the 
ARMv7 and ARMv8 Architecture 
With nearly 10 billion devices connected to 
the internet and predictions for exponential 
growth, we’ve reached a point where the 
space, power , and cost demands of traditional 
technology are no longer sustainable. 
HP Moonshot marks the beginning of a new 
style of IT that will change the infrastructure 
economics and lay the foundation for the next 
20 billion devices.
Health and wellness 
Many of us are trying to improve our 
health and fitness by being more active. 
Some devices now monitor our activity 
and location, and measure how much we 
have exercised and how many calories we 
have burned. These devices can be a useful 
motivator to encourage us to go for a walk 
and get some exercise, especially if we have 
been sat in the office all day. Other devices 
can be used to provide security for those that 
are potentially vulnerable such as older people 
at risk of illness or falls, or young children.
energy efficiency in networks 
With smartphones and tablets growing 
rapidly and the introduction of new devices to 
connect to the internet, we are entering an age 
of hyper-connectivity . It is forecast that there 
will be a five-fold increase in data transferred 
globally between 2012 and 2017. This is 
reshaping the requirements for networking 
infrastructure and our data centres that must 
carry and store all this data. T o avoid an 
unsustainable increase in energy consumption 
and carbon footprint, it is no longer enough to 
just build “more performance”, operators and 
equipment must provide “more performance 
per watt”.
environment 
Managing and monitoring the use of natural 
resources becomes increasingly important 
as the world’s population grows, and the 
standard of living increases. Therefore it is 
important that we maximise the benefit from 
cultivated land and the use of water and 
energy, whilst minimising the harmful impact 
from pollution and waste. Smart electronics 
can be used to monitor and control the use 
of critical resources, and ensure that the right 
amount of water and nutrients is applied to 
crops. Using cloud-based computing, these 
sensors can be linked together across very 
large areas to maximise the productivity of 
farms and regions.
cH ieF executive’ S Statement CONTINUED
ARM-based Pebble Smartwatch
It was the Pebble that has made the world 
interested in Smartwatches, with its incredible 
innovation and great style. Wearers want 
a watch that connects seamlessly to their 
devices and can run for days so they can enjoy 
all the benefits of their smart watch without 
worrying about performance or battery life.
Intelligent Agriculture with OnFarm
OnFarm provides intelligence to farmers 
to improve their yields and reduce the use 
of consumables such as water , fertiliser and 
pesticide. This is achieved by gathering data 
from multiple sources, including sensors 
placed in and around crop fields and orchards. 
With the innovation taking place around 
ARM-based sensors and the emergence of 
low-cost and long-range wireless technologies, 
we see lower-cost devices being deployed in 
vast numbers to provide granular data to the 
agricultural industry. 9
Our vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report
For more information on how Streetline is making parking 
smarter near you download the Streetline’s Parker app
For more information on how the Scope tablet is being used 
in Thai schools: ARM technology is addressing many of the 
world’s challenges, including education
For more information on how ARM technology is encouraging 
innovation around the world: Simon Segars, ARM CEO, 
presenting his vision for transformative technology at ARM’s 
T echCon 2013
Smart Parking with Streetline Networks
Smart parking reduces traffic and pollution, 
making happier citizens and more cost- 
efficient cities. Dust Networks’ wireless 
mesh network solution, featuring the ARM 
Cortex
®
-M3 processor , enables Streetline 
Networks to reliably gather the real-time 
status of municipal metered parking spots, 
and use that data to reduce traffic congestion.
Improving education in Thailand with tablets
The “One T ablet Per Child” (OTPC) policy 
was launched by Prime Minister Yingluck’s 
government in 2012 in an attempt to improve 
Thai education. In 2013, OTPC tablets were 
provided to the Ministry of Education by firms 
including Shenzhen Scope, featuring Rockchip 
RK3066 with dual-core ARM Cortex-A9 
processor and quad-core ARM Mali-400 MP4 
Graphics Processing Unit (GPU), with an 
average cost of around $80 per tablet.
t ransport 
In 2008, for the first time in history, over 
half of the world’s population lived in urban 
areas and by 2050 this will have risen to 
70%. Congestion is already a huge problem 
in many cities, especially in peak commute 
times. By building intelligence into transit 
systems and cars, we can make our public 
transport and private car travel much more 
efficient. With smarter infrastructure that 
knows the location of vehicles, and can 
communicate with them, we can increase the 
capacity of existing roads and railways, and 
predict and plan the best routes for travellers, 
directing vehicles away from accidents or 
overloaded intersections. 
productivity through education
Many parts of the education system haven’t 
changed for many years, and no longer match 
the needs and expectations of a modern 
child, leading to a lack of engagement. At the 
same time, a large number of children have 
very little access to information, leading to 
fewer opportunities for a good education. 
Some educations systems are looking 
to both reach a wider audience and to 
effectively engage with them through the 
use of technology.
productivity through lowering 
the barrier to entrepreneurship 
New products and services are created 
when entrepreneurs see an opportunity to 
enter a new market with the resources to do 
something about it. Over the last few years 
computing has become more accessible, so 
creating a new ARM-based product has never 
been easier for more people. This is helping 
to drive a new era of innovation.
Making (almost) anything with a 3D printer
Robox
®
 is CEL’s 3D printer. You can print 
with many materials to create solid, usable 
3D objects and prototypes. It contains an 
Atmel ATSAM3U2EA microcontroller, 
powered by an ARM Cortex-M3 processor. ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
10
enabling innovation at arm
ARM employs some of the most creative and 
innovative people in the industry, who have 
the vision and drive to develop and deploy the 
best technology. T ogether with our partners 
we are developing some of the technology 
that can make the world a better place for 
everyone. The ARM team is bound together 
by a set of principles and behaviours by which 
we operate. These principles and behaviours 
have evolved as the Group has developed, 
and still hold true today. 
We consider the following as essential 
elements of the behaviour of an ARM 
employee in whatever discipline they work: 
teamwork and selflessness; constructive 
proactivity; partner and customer focus and 
responsiveness. In addition, we encourage all 
employees to take pride in innovation and in 
their own self-development. 
The focus of our business model is to create 
technologies that are well suited for many 
Partners to use in a diverse range of markets. 
The creativity of our employees therefore 
rests in our ability to listen to 
and understand the needs of our 
semiconductor and OEM Partners. We then 
combine their inputs with our own research 
to create the next generation of our 
technology designs. This close collaboration 
with our Partners requires the ARM team 
to be open to new ideas and suggestions. 
Internally we encourage managers to take 
a consensual approach to leading teams, 
and as those individuals become successful, 
so we are developing the leaders who will 
manage the Group within ARM’s broad and 
diverse ecosystem.
More than two-thirds of ARM’s employees 
are engineers, specifying and inventing 
new technology to be licensed. ARM’s 
non-engineering employees focus on the 
deployment of this technology; marketing and 
sales maintain the essential relationships with 
our Partners, legal and licensing teams support 
negotiations, infrastructure teams provide the 
delivery mechanisms, finance teams manage 
financial matters, and HR teams support the 
ongoing development of a high performance, 
high engagement organisation in which our 
people can innovate, collaborate and grow.
Many of our customers are global 
semiconductor companies, which clearly 
requires an international focus. T oday we 
have 31 offices in 15 countries, with R&D 
development sites in UK, US, China, France, 
Germany, T aiwan and India. We have 
a strong culture of encouraging internal 
communication and interworking between 
sites. We believe strongly in spending time 
with our customers and have established 
offices in the major regions where our 
customers develop ARM-based products. 
These shared principles and behaviours have 
evolved over the last 23 years, during which 
the ARM team has increased to provide 
technology to the growing ecosystem of 
Partners. These shared principles still guide 
us today and I am confident that they will help 
the ARM team to continue to develop, create 
and license technology for years to come.
  Delivery of results
  T eamwork and selflessness
  Constructive proactivity
  Partner and customer focus
  Responsiveness
  Innovation
  Personal development
We are  
Supp Orte D By 
  Families
  Communities
  Local government
  Suppliers
  Investors
We Supp Ort 
  100s Customers
  1,000s 
ecosystem partners
  1,000,000 Developers
  Listen and understand 
customer and Partner needs
  Partner and customer focus
  Responsiveness
  Being a good neighbour to 
local communities
  Increasing shareholder value
external
arm ’S SHare D principle S an D BeHavi Our S
2,833  
empl OyeeS
internal
Multi-discipline teams work 
together to determine strategy
Manage across diverse companies 
and ecosystem
cH ieF executive’ S Statement CONTINUED 11
Our vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report
Enabling innovation everywhere
The use of digital technology and smarter 
electronics will continue to grow as we meet 
the increasing demands of society, and as 
previously unconnected devices become 
smarter and connected into the digital world. 
This is creating a huge opportunity for the 
semiconductor industry, and ARM is well 
positioned to benefit both from increasing 
sales of computer chips, and also increasing 
our market share with our smart, power 
efficient technologies. 
Mobile communications and mobile 
computers were just the first markets to 
need smart electronics, and almost all mobile 
devices sold today contain at least one 
ARM-based chip. The smartphone market 
grew by about half in 2013, with many 
consumers upgrading from voice-only phones. 
Over the next few years, the smartphone 
and mobile computer markets are expected 
to continue to grow strongly, especially in 
emerging markets where mobile computers 
can become an essential tool for education, 
business and supporting community projects.
As other devices become smarter and 
the need for power efficiency increases in 
other markets, so our opportunities grow. 
During 2013, we saw high numbers of chips 
containing our technology being sold into 
enterprise networking, and the first ARM-
based server chips sold. We expect these 
markets to become increasingly significant to 
us over the next few years.
ARM is also seeing strong growth in chips for 
embedded computing that go into a wide 
range of end applications, from washing 
machines to robotics. These chips are often 
very low cost, and sell into a very broad range 
of markets that add up to huge volumes. 
In 2013 more than three billion ARM-
based chips were sold into these products, 
an increase of 35% on the previous year . 
Many companies are investing in innovation 
into these categories of chips to meet the 
needs of the Internet of Things. In 2013, 
ARM licensed Cortex-M class processors to 
47 companies. This market could grow to 
30 billion chips by 2018.
Organising for an increasing opportunity
As ARM technology is increasingly deployed 
by more companies into more applications, 
we need to ensure that ARM is organised to 
meet the challenges of higher expectations 
from more customers and more end markets. 
At the beginning of 2014 I restructured 
the Group to create an organisation that 
is more scalable and more accountable; 
one that will offer our customers a more 
joined-up product portfolio, ensuring better 
integration of our technologies in our 
customers’ products. We therefore no longer 
have separate divisions, but instead a single 
product development team consisting of 
seven product groups, all reporting into Pete 
Hutton, EVP and President Product Groups. 
Pete will be responsible for the integrated 
product development and delivery of ARM’s 
business lines. In addition, he will manage two 
cross-functional teams that will help ensure 
alignment between the product groups’ 
roadmaps and execution.
These product groups will be further 
supported by Antonio Viana, EVP and 
President of Commercial and Global 
Development, who manages our commercial 
team, and Ian Drew, EVP and Chief Marketing 
Officer . T ogether Antonio and Ian will 
develop the ecosystem of companies that is 
so important to ARM’s long-term success.
Well positioned for the future
ARM’s expertise, technology, business 
model and ecosystem mean that we are well 
positioned to take advantage of the growing 
opportunity as technology meets some of 
the key challenges that face society. We are 
also continuing to investigate new markets 
and opportunities, as well as developing the 
skills and capability of ARM’s employees so 
that they can develop the next generation of 
technology that will enable our customers 
to create innovative products.
ARM gains share as our customers use more 
of our technology in their chips. We work 
very closely with leaders across the industry 
to ensure we are developing the right 
technology for their designs. This collaborative 
approach comes from ARM’s own internal 
culture and is something we carefully 
manage as we grow in size, both in terms of 
increased headcount and market influence 
and responsibility.
As the new CEO of ARM, I am excited by 
this opportunity. I am confident that ARM’s 
expertise, together with our Partners’ 
creativity and diversity, means that we will 
be at the forefront of the new products and 
services that will help to make the world a 
better place for everyone.
Simon Segars
Chief Executive Officer
  Architecture
  CPU
  Physical Design
  Media Processing
  Systems & Software
  Development Solutions
  Partner Enablement
cOmmercial OperatiOn S
t ec Hnical OperatiOn S ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
12
“Wearable” technology is helping to keep us fit and healthy. Many people 
use ARM-based digital pedometers to keep track of steps travelled and 
calories burned. These devices may be synchronised with a smartphone app 
that can record the calories consumed, and so give information to keep us 
healthy and motivated. Keep on running.
More information about embedded ARM-based devices can be found 
on pages 32–37 and also online.
www.arm.com/reporting2013
Helping
peOple perFO rm 13
Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report
