 08	 Plant 	 Impact	 plc	
 Annual Report and Group Financial Statements for the year to 31 March 2011
Chief Executive’s Review
Overview
Pi’s drive towards financial self-sufficiency is evidenced by commercial progress with 
key distributors and the improving crop nutrient sales and margins. Crop nutrient 
revenues and margins have improved for the third year in succession. During the year 
ended 31 March 2011, Pi recorded its first annual crop nutrients revenue above £1m. 
To achieve financial self-sufficiency, the Company continues to secure distribution 
agreements for crop nutrient products and increases the breadth of field trial 
development, both in crops and countries. Pi has increased the extent of its 
distribution agreements with new contracts; ALS in Mexico and Central America, 
Cebeco in Benelux and Engage Agro in Canada. Evaluation agreements have been 
signed with ALS and Agrimatco.
Pi has focused its limited resource on key crops in key countries and the benefit of this 
is becoming apparent. In collaboration with our distributor in the Benelux, Cebeco, the 
Company has undertaken a significant field trial development programme for InCa 
on potatoes. This has provided both partners with excellent and consistent field trial 
results and an improvement in InCa sales. Building on the Brazil visit in 2009, Pi and 
Syngenta have started a field trial programme on soya. This is a long-term project 
which the Board believes has potential for the Company’s products. Both potatoes 
and soya are first examples of Pi broadening crop exposure from high value 
horticulture to extensive area arable.
In May 2011, the Company completed a subscription agreement with ALS raising 
£2.05m and issuing 4,560,530 shares at 45 pence. In addition, Pi has entered into two 
commercial agreements with ALS. The first agreement covers the commercial 
development of the Company’s PiNT technology in the turf and ornamental markets 
in the USA, including the large US professional golf market. The second agreement 
covers the commercial development of the Company’s InCa and PiNT technologies for 
use in horticulture in Brazil. Horticulture is a key export market for Brazil and ALS has 
a significant position in the sector. ALS and the Company will also continue to work 
together to evaluate a number of other emerging markets. The existing evaluation 
agreement between ALS and Pi, which originally expired in March 2011, has been 
extended until June 2012. In addition to the time extension, the agreement has been 
expanded to cover a portfolio of Pi’s products in addition to InCa and a further four 
territories have been added bringing the total to 28.
In June 2011, Plant Impact signed a distribution agreement with Engage Agro for 
Canada. The agreement is for exclusive distribution of InCa. Canada shows promise 
for Pi products in several crops including potatoes and apples.
Commercial development
Arysta	 Lifescience	 agreements
Pi has signed four commercial agreements with ALS, these are; Mexico and Central 
America for InCa, US Turf & Ornamental for PiNT, Brazil horticulture for InCa, 
PiNT and CST and an evaluation agreement covering 28 countries for InCa, PiNT, 
CST and Speedo.
Central	 America
As part of the ten-year agreement, ALS will have exclusive distribution rights for sales 
and marketing of InCa in Mexico, Guatemala, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, 
Dominican Republic, Panama, Belize and parts of the Caribbean.
ALS Mexico has conducted field trials on high value horticultural crops during the 
previous 18 months mainly in Mexico. During the 2011 and 2012 seasons field trials 
will be extended to the other Central American countries.
InCa was launched in Mexico during May 2011, with a full marketing and grower 
demonstration programme scheduled for the remainder of 2011. First sales are 
scheduled for H2 2011.
Brazil crop nutrient 
registrations
Key event – November 2010 	 Plant	 Impact	 plc	 09 	
	 Annual Report and Group Financial Statements for the year to 31 March 2011 
US	 Turf	 &	 Ornamental
This agreement is exclusive for PiNT and includes the large US golf course market, 
athletic fields, professional lawncare and ornamentals.
The US has 18,000 golf courses, with a large number of these close to water. PiNT 
has proven environmental benefits in reduced nitrogen applications and decreased 
nitrogen leaching into the water courses. ALS’s interest in PiNT was a direct result 
of the USDA field trial programme instigated by Pi two years ago. Golf course turf 
managers utilise liquid fertilisers on tees and greens. The performance of PiNT offers 
several benefits for such management including avoidance of unsightly salt ‘burn’, 
avoidance of polluting run-off and an improved cosmetic appearance. These add up 
to premium pricing opportunities for PiNT.
ALS are undertaking a significant field trial programme to replicate and enhance the 
trials conducted by the USDA. ALS has a dedicated turf and ornamental team which 
includes product development, sales and marketing capabilities.
Brazil	 horticulture
The Brazil horticulture agreement is exclusive for InCa, PiNT and CST.
The ALS Brazil team is instigating field trials on tomatoes, potatoes, melons, grapes 
and coffee. There are 62,000 hectares of tomatoes, 145,000 hectares of potatoes, 
115,000 hectares of melons, 79,000 hectares of grapes and 2.2 million hectares of 
coffee in Brazil. Pi trials results on these crops from other countries give the Board 
confidence that economic benefit can be demonstrated in Brazil.
Evaluation	 agreement
The original evaluation agreement signed between Pi and ALS expired on the 
31 March 2011. In June 2011, the two companies signed an extension to the evaluation 
agreement which in turn expires on the 30 June 2012.
The extended agreement has increased the number of Pi products from InCa only 
to InCa, PiNT, CST and Speedo. It has also increased the number of countries under 
evaluation from 24 to 28.
Field trials are scheduled in ALS countries, mainly on horticultural crops. These trials 
will provide critical information for both companies on their technical and commercial 
efficacy of Pi products. It is intended that these data sets will lead to business cases 
for market entry and further distribution agreements with ALS in these 28 countries.
Arysta	 First	 Crop	 Nutrient	 sales
ALS continues to make initial sales in new territories for Pi products. During the year 
the Company sold InCa via ALS in Poland, the Czech Republic and Romania.
Crop	 Nutrients	 agreement	 with	 Agrimatco
In September 2010, Pi and Agrimatco signed an evaluation, development and 
distribution agreement covering the Company’s InCa, PiNT K, PiNT Ca, Balance, 
Saxon, Scope, CaB and Speedo additive products.
This agreement covers countries in the Middle East, North Africa, Eastern Europe 
and Central Asia. Initial crop targets are in high value horticulture with potential 
extension into some arable crops.
Agrimatco have exclusivity to evaluate the products until 31 December 2011. 
The evaluation of these products represents a number of field trial development 
programmes. Following the successful completion of these field trials, Agrimatco 
will ensure that products are registered locally and will market and distribute them 
on an exclusive basis. Detailed development and distribution agreements will be 
signed country by country as they come on stream.
Agrimatco sells Pi products in Egypt and Saudi Arabia. For both Egypt and 
Saudi Arabia turnover has increased for the third year running.
New chairman 
Key event – February 2011 10	 Plant 	 Impact	 plc	
 Annual Report and Group Financial Statements for the year to 31 March 2011
Agrimatco is an established company in the Middle East, North Africa, Eastern Europe, 
Russia, Central Asia, China and Vietnam. The company was founded by Khalil Miqdadi 
in 1936 and is currently operating in 50 countries and has a team of over 1,300 
employees. Agrimatco supplies all of the agricultural requirements of farmers, 
including; seeds, crop protection products, fertilisers, sprayers, farming tools and 
equipments, machinery and veterinary products, together with a specialised team 
of over 500 agronomists that consult daily with farmers and give advice on product 
application, use and after sales service.
Crop	 Nutrients	 agreement	 with	 Cebeco
Pi signed a distribution and evaluation agreement with Cebeco Meststoffen BV 
(Cebeco) covering the Company’s InCa, PiNT Ca, PiNT K and Alethea K products.
The agreement grants Cebeco exclusive distribution rights for certain market 
segments (excluding golf courses and home and garden) in Holland, Belgium 
and Luxemburg. The agreement also gives Cebeco non-exclusive evaluation rights 
for Germany.
This agreement is a result of a significant field trial development programme 
undertaken by Cebeco over a 24-month period. Cebeco have conducted more than 
40 research standard field trials at independent centres in the Netherlands and 
Germany on various crops including potatoes, sugar beet, onions, carrots, apples 
and cherries. In addition to these official independent trials, Cebeco has conducted 
numerous demonstration trials with growers.
During the early part of the field trial programme, Cebeco focused on the fruit and 
vegetable market but more recently they have placed increased importance on field 
trials of potatoes. With more than 470,000 hectares of potato crops in the Benelux 
countries and Germany, the Board believes that the potential for Pi’s products is 
promising. The first batch of potato field trials conducted in 2010 have demonstrated 
encouraging efficacy results and the trial programme for 2011 will cover high value 
crops, including potatoes, sugar beet and grapes. There are currently over 50 research 
standard trials planned by Pi and Cebeco as part of their joint development programme.
Dutch agriculture and horticulture is one of the most technically advanced in the 
world. Farmers are highly skilled, the cultivation methods are cutting edge and 
average yields are amongst the highest in the world. These factors combined with 
open international trade structures make Dutch agriculture a portal to the rest of 
the world. Proven innovations in Holland are often adopted by farmers worldwide.
Improving	 revenues
Total revenue for the year at £1,783,525 is a 26 per cent increase on the £1,410,711 from 
2010. This year’s revenue was entirely based on crop nutrient products, a like for like 
comparison, sees crop nutrient revenues increase by 96 per cent from £910,711 to 
£1,783,525.
In Northern Europe the Company has experienced revenue growth for three 
consecutive years from Holland and the UK. These revenues are predominantly 
based on InCa and are a result of a significant number of field trials. Dutch sales 
have demonstrated an increase of 13 times those achieved in the previous financial 
years. Validation through repeat sales in this important market will carry weight with 
growers and distributors around the world. Last year the Company reported poor 
performance in France, as a result of which Pi has taken positive steps to remedy the 
situation. We are currently engaged in discussions with a major distributor, and field 
trial and the Board anticipates that commercial progress will be made during the 
current year is anticipated.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Arysta Lifescience 
agreements, US T&O and 
Brazil 
Key event – May 2011 	 Plant	 Impact	 plc	 11 	
	 Annual Report and Group Financial Statements for the year to 31 March 2011 
Southern Europe, particularly Spain, demonstrated improvement on the 2010 
revenues, however these revenues were significantly below expectations and coupled 
with the ongoing financial situation in Spain has created a continuing commercial 
challenge for Pi. The Company took the decision in April 2011 that it could no longer 
support its Spanish operations with dedicated sales staff. Sales continue through 
local distribution.
The USA revenue was disappointing, the levels achieved during the year were equal 
to 2009 levels and half those experienced during 2010. Three reasons contributed 
to this; the lack of support from Pi’s distributor, the weather conditions in Florida at 
the start of the season and the lack of crop and geographical spread being the other. 
During 2011/12 season Pi is undertaking a significant field trial programme extending 
the number of crops and the number of States. This programme includes potatoes 
where there are 423,000 hectares in the USA and 151,000 in Canada. The Company 
anticipates commercial progress this current financial year. Pi has negotiated a 
distribution agreement for Canada with the distributor Engage and has already 
received first orders.
In the Middle East, like Holland and the UK, Egypt and Saudi Arabia have 
demonstrated revenue growth for three consecutive years. This growth is attributed 
to the close working relationship between Agrimatco and the Pi office in Jordan.
In Africa the Company’s distributor in Kenya has demonstrated excellent 
commercial progress.
Research and development
BugOil
®
BugOil
®
 remains in the regulatory process in the two major jurisdictions of the USA 
and Europe (UK lead country). Both the UK and USA dossiers have been submitted by 
the Company (the UK dossier in 2008 and the USA dossier in 2009).
In December 2010 we reported that the UK and US regulatory authorities had 
requested additional studies. These were duly completed during December 2010. 
During November 2010, the UK authorities conducted their first official review 
of the dossier and concluded with a demand for further studies. These are focused 
on the chemistry of the natural products in the product and can be completed 
relatively quickly. We anticipate a further round of discussions with the authorities 
in the third quarter of the current year.
The additional studies requested by the US authorities were completed in December 
2010. Having initially informed Plant Impact that due to unprecedented workloads their 
review of the dossiers will be delayed until the first half of 2012, this has now been 
agreed for October 2011.
Crop	 Nutrient	 field	 trials
The Board considers that field trial development and progression is a fundamental 
prerequisite to commercial development and as such, Pi continues to invest significant 
time and resource to field trials on key crops. Increasingly the Company is investing in 
research standard trials which can produce robust quantitative and qualitative data 
sets. The data sets will be of research standard to demonstrate to significant partners 
the technical and commercial efficacy of Pi products.
The Company and its partners have now undertaken field trials in over 40 countries 
and 80 crops/species with the focus on InCa and PiNT. Pi’s horticulture field trials 
continue, however over the previous 12 months the Company has seen a breakthrough 
in arable crop field trial development. Initially this has focused on InCa for potatoes 
and increasingly we are testing on more arable crops.
Arysta Lifescience 
subscription 
Key event – May 2011 12	 Plant 	 Impact	 plc	
	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Group	 Financial	 Statements	 for	 the	 year	 to	 31	 March	 2011
Potatoes
Potato	 field	 trials	 have	 been,	 or	 are	 being,	 conducted	 in	 20	 countries.	 These	 include	
important	 regions	 such	 as	 Holland,	 Germany,	 France,	 UK,	 USA	 and	 China.	 These	
20 counties	 have	 in	 total	 9.3	 million	 hectares	 of	 potatoes	 and	 represent	 55	 per	 cent	
of the	 world	 production.	 To	 date	 the	 average	 yield	 increase	 with	 InCa	 is	 12	 per	 cent	
and we	 are	 also	 seeing improvements	 in	 terms	 of	 the	 tuber	 quality.	 Commercially	
the Company	 has	 experienced	 improvement	 in	 Northern	 Europe	 and	 will	 use	 this	
success	 to	 pursue	 potato	 crop	 development	 in	 further	 countries.
Soybean
In	 August	 2010,	 the	 Company	 announced	 a	 field	 trial	 development	 programme	 with	
Syngenta	 in	 Brazil	 for	 certain	 arable	 crops;	 soybean,	 maize,	 cotton	 and	 coffee.	
Brazilian	 farmers	 grow	 approximately	 21	 million	 hectares	 of	 soybean,	 14	 million	
hectares	 of	 maize,	 2	 million	 hectares	 of	 coffee	 bean	 and	 1	 million	 hectares	 of	 cotton	
in 2008.	 Therefore,	 the	 Company	 considers	 the	 Brazilian	 agricultural	 market	 to	 be	
a major	 opportunity	 for	 it.
The	 Company	 has	 also	 commissioned	 independent	 soybean	 trials	 in	 Brazil	 including	
with	 EMBRAPA.	 Further	 trials	 have	 been	 commissioned	 in	 2011	 with	 Universities	 and	
consultants	 in	 various	 US	 states.	 The	 Company	 considers	 that	 this	 significantly	
expands	 its	 market	 potential.
US	 Department	 of	 Agriculture	 Agreement
Independent	 research	 carried	 out	 by	 the	 US	 Department	 of	 Agriculture	 (‘USDA’)	
and Penn	 State	 University	 was	 reported	 at	 the	 World	 Soil	 Science	 Congress	 in	
Australia	 on 4	 August	 2010.	 These	 results	 have	 since	 been	 validated	 in	 two	 further	
trials.	 The	 results	 confirm	 the	 results	 from	 the	 first	 experiment	 and	 support	 the	 use	
of Pi’s	 unique	 nitrogen	 fertiliser	 technology	 (PiNT)	 on	 turf	 grass.
The	 trials	 show	 that	 PiNT	 technology:
	 – uses	 25	 per	 cent	 less	 nitrogen	 than	 competing	 technologies;
	 – allows	 crops	 to	 retain	 nitrogen	 for	 longer;
	 – improves	 turf	 quality	 and	 colour;	 and
	 – reduces	 nitrogen	 leaching	 into	 watercourses.
The	 Board	 believes	 that	 home	 and	 gardens,	 golf	 courses	 and	 outfield	 turf	
management	 represent	 major	 potential	 markets	 for	 PiNT,	 which	 helps	 turf	 grass	
retain	 nitrogen	 for	 longer.	 In	 addition	 improved	 nitrogen	 retention	 leads	 to	 reduced	
nitrate	 run-off	 and	 pollution	 of	 waterways	 and	 coastal	 regions	 which	 in	 turn	 has	
environmental	 benefits.
Lancaster	 University	 –	 Alethea
®
Alethea	 is	 seen	 as	 an	 important	 pipeline	 technology	 and	 consequently	 is	 a	 focus	 in	
terms	 of	 the	 R&D	 pipeline.	 The	 initial	 work	 has	 been	 on	 salinity	 where	 Alethea	 has	
been	 shown	 to	 offer	 significant	 protection.	 This	 is	 a	 major	 problem	 for	 agriculture	
and globally	 around	 10	 million	 hectares	 are	 affected	 annually.	 The	 growth	 and	 yield	 of	
crops is	 reduced	 under	 saline	 solutions,	 however,	 when	 pre-treated	 with	 Alethea	 the	
reductions	 in	 photosynthesis	 and	 growth	 have	 been	 greatly	 reduced.	 Experiments	 are	
also	 looking	 at	 UV	 stress	 in	 association	 with	 the	 Universities	 of	 Massey	 and	 Lincoln	
in New	 Zealand.
Chief	 Executive’s	 Review	 continued 	 Plant	 Impact	 plc	 13 	
	 Annual Report and Group Financial Statements for the year to 31 March 2011 
Pi is also involved in a Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council Case 
studentship with Lancaster University. This is again looking at Alethea, but the focus 
of this work is the control of reactive oxygen species (‘ROS’). ROS are an unavoidable 
by-product of basic metabolic processes which are normally kept in balance by 
antioxidants. However, under stress the ROS can build up and have a detrimental 
effect on crops. In these experiments the active ingredient within paraquat weed killer 
is being used as a model system for inducing ROS. The effect of Alethea has been 
remarkable in greatly reducing the damage as a result of ROS in a number of crop 
species. Where plants are pretreated with Alethea there is often little or no damage 
at a paraquat concentration that is sufficient to cause substantial damage in plants 
pre-sprayed only with water.
Following the progress made this year, the recent ALS subscription agreement and 
the growing distribution network, Pi is well positioned to continue to improve crop 
nutrient sales and attract partners.
Technologies and products
Plant Impact has developed six key technologies designed to increase marketable 
yield, improve shelf life, lower inputs and be more environmentally friendly than 
current standard practice. These technologies can be divided into two distinct groups:
a) Crop Nutrients – CaT, PINT™, Alethea
®
, and Speedo™;
b) Pest control – BugOil
®
 and nematicide.
Of these technologies, Plant Impact has developed nine products which are:
 – InCa, Cold Grow and Hot Grow from CaT technology;
 – PiNT Calcium, PiNT Potassium and PiNT Magnesium from PiNT technology;
 – Balance and Saxon from Speedo technology;
 – Cocoa Stress Tolerance (CST) and Scope from Alethea technology; and
 – Bionic from BugOil
®
 technology.
Alethea (with the exception of CST and Scope) and nematicide are at the research 
and development stage.
Crop	 Nutrients
Calcium Technology – CaT
A Calcium transport and delivery technology designed to work at a cellular level.
CaT uses patent applied chemistry to improve calcium absorption by plant tissues 
with a low ability to take up and retain calcium. Calcium is used by plants for cell 
integrity, cell wall strength and cell division. However, calcium uptake and movement 
within plants is erratic and therefore some parts of plants struggle to absorb and 
retain calcium. This leaves them weak and prone to infection and quality problems. 
Often these areas are the part of the plant that growers wish to harvest. Many fruit 
and vegetable crops suffer from ‘physiological disorders’ associated with low 
calcium levels.
This technology has a patent application, and has yielded several commercial 
products, the main benefits of which are:
 – prevents physiological disorders;
 – increased shelf-life and quality;
 – improved growth during high and low temperatures and frosts;
 – holding and setting more flowers and fruit; and
 – lower input levels compared to standard calcium applications. 14	 Plant 	 Impact	 plc	
 Annual Report and Group Financial Statements for the year to 31 March 2011
PiNT™
Plant Impact Nitrogen Technology (PiNT™) controls the uptake of nitrogen by a plant.
PiNT™ Calcium gives the plant a better root system, improving reproductive growth 
(which is harvested) and reduced vegetative growth (which is discarded). This is also 
valuable in ornamentals and turf crops, where growers do not want ‘leggy’ growth for 
cosmetic reasons.
PiNT™ Potassium and Magnesium improve quality and colour of product and shorten 
the time to harvest. With some crops having shorter maturation periods there is also 
the possibility for additional harvests.
Speedo™
Speedo™ is a natural plant maturity promoter. Field trials have indicated an increase in 
sugar content, colour, and reproductive maturity in a range of fruit and vegetable crops.
Alethea
®
This technology uses a new molecule that has been designed to combat the effects 
of abiotic stress. Abiotic stress is caused by extremes of temperature, water, drought, 
salinity, heavy metals, herbicide and light intensity. Abiotic stress is a major problem 
in agriculture, limiting the ability of crops to achieve optimum yield and quality. 
Abiotic stress contributes to disease, since stressed crops suffer from higher levels 
of many diseases.
The Alethea
®
 chemistry promotes the maintenance of strong, healthy cell walls in 
conditions of stress and reduced water availability, whilst this allows the cells to 
neutralise harmful ammonia and oxidative toxins that accumulate in plants at times 
of stress.
Pest	 Control
BugOil
®
BugOil
®
 is a benign insect and mite control agent derived from essential plant oil 
technology that offers highly effective control in a non-toxic, environmentally friendly 
method. The pests targeted by BugOil
®
 are mites, whitefly, thrips and aphids; these 
pests are some of the most damaging and most difficult to control as they reproduce 
quickly in mass numbers and can build resistance to conventional pest control agents.
Independent field trials conducted on BugOil
®
 have demonstrated that the product 
has pest control abilities at least equal to, if not better, than those of current 
industry-standard insecticides. BugOil
®
 also provides broad-spectrum pest 
coverage, particularly for ornamentals such as cut flowers. All field trials were 
conducted to regulatory standard by independent third parties on high-value crops 
such as ornamentals, fruit and vegetables. To date, successful field trials have been 
conducted on BugOil
®
 in the USA, UK, Europe and Africa.
BugOil
®
 technology:
 – high level of efficacy equivalent to most current synthetic standards;
 – based totally on natural plant extracts;
 – safe for many non-target organisms including mammals, fish, birds, 
and most beneficial insects (bees, earthworms, lacewings, ladybirds); and
 – non-toxic and environmentally friendly.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Engage Agro Canadian 
distribution agreement
Key event – June 2011 	 Plant	 Impact	 plc	 15 	
	 Annual Report and Group Financial Statements for the year to 31 March 2011 
Nematicide
Plant Impact’s nematode control technology is based on natural essential oils, similar 
in concept to BugOil
®
. Nematodes are one of the world’s greatest pest problems.
Plant Impact’s nematicide technology aims to:
 – create an effective product that maintains biodiversity in the soil flora and fauna;
 – be environmentally safe compared to current farming practices;
 – leave no harmful residues in food crops; and
 – be safe to the farmer when handling the product.
This product concept is now under active development and evaluation supported by a 
range of partner companies and EU funding.
Intellectual property
Plant Impact continues to invest in its patent portfolio. The following table illustrates 
the current patent status:
Technology
Granted by
 country
Pending by
 country
BugOil
®
35 3
Alethea 8 18
Nematicide 2 7
CaT 5 6
Speedo 2 11
52 45
Peter Blezard
Chief Executive Officer
1 July 2011
