 ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
4
Overview of the year
2013 was another successful year for ARM. 
During 2013, Group revenue grew 22% to 
$1,117.7 million (£714.6 million). This growth 
enabled us to invest in both R&D and the 
business infrastructure that underpins future 
growth, at the same time as improving 
profitability and increasing returns to 
shareholders. By balancing increased long-term 
investment plans with improving profitability in 
the near term, we were able to increase the 
dividend by 27% to 5.7 pence per share.
The 121 licences that we signed in 2013 
demonstrate that we have a portfolio of 
processors and supporting technologies 
that enable companies to build their products 
for future electronic devices. From our 
customers’ royalty reports, we know that 
they shipped more than 10 billion ARM-
based chips in 2013 (a 20% increase over 
2012), as they see increasing demand for 
low-power smart products from consumers 
and enterprises.
2014 will bring exciting opportunities and 
challenges as ARM competes in new markets 
where we are well positioned to succeed with 
our leading technology, innovative business 
model and thriving ecosystem of Partners.
cH airman’ S revie W
innO v a ting FOr  
tHe Digit al W OrlD
Sir J OHn Buc Hanan
Chairman
Smart and connected digital devices are increasingly being used 
by billions of people all over the world, and ARM’s technology 
is at the heart of many of the chips used in today’s electronic 
products. Our strategy is to develop and license technology that 
leading semiconductor companies can then incorporate into 
their silicon chips. These chips go into a wide range of mobile, 
consumer and embedded electronics from sensors to servers.
We are committed to hiring and developing some of the most 
innovative and imaginative engineers who, together with 
supporting teams, can develop and deploy next generation 
processors and enabling technologies to our Partners.  5
Our vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report
ARM’s clear business strategy continues to 
serve the Group well, as demonstrated by 
the innovation and quality of our products, 
and also in the leadership, talent development 
and strong culture of the organisation. 
Whilst innovation thrives throughout the wide 
range of mutually beneficial partnerships that 
make up the ARM Connected Community, 
we must not underestimate the challenges of 
the wider economic environment, nor of the 
strength and quality of the competition in the 
markets we serve.
Success in a challenging environment
ARM is developing technology for the mobile 
and embedded computing applications and our 
latest products are opening up markets such 
as servers and enterprise networking. ARM is 
facing well-funded competition in both these 
new areas and also in the mobile computing 
market where ARM has a large share. 
ARM’s Partners are also amongst the 
companies developing technologies for the 
nascent Internet of Things, where there 
will be new competitive threats, from new 
technology and business models. ARM will 
remain vigilant, seeking to ensure that we 
are positioned competitively with suitable 
technology, an innovative business model 
and a diverse range of Partners.
the arm team
The knowledge and creativity of our people 
and the ability to deliver customer satisfaction 
in an increasingly demanding and competitive 
environment are the key determinants of our 
success. We continue to attract outstanding 
people and in 2013 we hired a net 441 
additional employees, the majority of them 
engineers working in processor design and 
software development. These new hires were 
a mix of new graduates and experienced 
talent from all over the world.
ceO succession
In March 2013 ARM announced that 
Warren East, ARM’s CEO since 2001, had 
decided to retire effective from 1 July 2013. 
Simon Segars, previously ARM’s President 
became the Group’s CEO from that date.
Warren helped to transform ARM during 
his time as CEO. In 2001, ARM had one 
processor product line, mainly used in 
mobile phones. He led the Group to create 
a broad portfolio of technologies in the 
industry, deployed in a wide range of markets. 
On behalf of the Board, and the wider ARM 
team, deep thanks are due to Warren for his 
passion, service and leadership.
Simon Segars has been with ARM since 1991 
and has held several executive roles including 
EVP Engineering, when he worked 
on many of the early ARM processors, 
as well as EVP Worldwide Sales and EVP 
Business Development. He joined the Board 
in January 2005, and as President of ARM had 
operational responsibility for the company’s 
IP divisions. Simon’s proven technology 
expertise and management skills across a 
range of senior executive roles made him 
an excellent choice for CEO and he is highly 
qualified to take the Group forward.
chairman succession
In January 2014, ARM announced my decision 
to step down from the ARM Board due to 
a medical condition. My successor is Stuart 
Chambers, who brings board and executive 
experience both in the UK and globally gained 
through his executive and non-executive roles 
with global companies. It has been a great 
privilege to serve as Chairman of ARM and I 
have greatly enjoyed my time on the Board of 
this fine company.
In conclusion, I would like to thank all of 
ARM’s employees for their effort and 
contribution in 2013, including the Board, 
Warren and Simon, and the leadership team. 
I look forward to seeing ARM’s technologies 
unlocking the potential of new opportunities 
for innovators across the mobile world and 
beyond and being ubiquitous in the products 
that we use today and in the future.
The knowledge and creativity of  
our people and the ability to deliver 
customer satisfaction in an increasingly 
demanding and competitive environment 
are the key determinants of our success.
