 04	 Plant 	 Impact	 plc	
 Annual Report and Group Financial Statements for the year to 31 March 2011
Chairman’s Statement
I was delighted to accept the role of Chairman of the Board of Plant Impact in 
February. I join with the rest of the Board in thanking Martin Robinson for his 
direction of the Company since 2005, and look forward to his future contribution 
as a Non-Executive Director.
The last year was again an exceptional year for farmers around the world. All crop 
commodities were highly priced and many commodities such as sugar, cotton and 
cocoa reached highs not seen in decades. Following on from the price highs of 2008, 
which were largely attributed to the actions of speculators, this second round of 
record prices have focused minds on the underlying global food commodity supply/
demand balances. In the past, yield increases underpinned by a steady improvement 
in seed technology and chemical inputs have kept pace with increasing global food 
demand. The world’s farmers have fed the world’s population from essentially the 
same acreage. However now, to use a phrase applied in this context by John Beddington 
(Government’s Chief Scientific Advisor), the world faces a ‘perfect storm’ of 
accelerating food demand and declining flexibility of supply. In the eye of this perfect 
storm is the rapid enrichment of populous Asia stimulating demand and a declining 
rate of yield increases for key world crops. This deceleration in yield increase is further 
compromised by a rise in farmer risk as a consequence of volatile weather patterns, 
deteriorating irrigation water availability and quality. Finally, an appreciable new market 
for agricultural produce; the production of corn, sugar and oil crops as feedstock for 
biofuels is diverting prime agriculture land away from food production. Only some of 
these factors can be ameliorated by policy changes, the most fundamental can only be 
addressed by more and better crop yield enhancing technologies.
A small number of large research and development based majors with global reach 
and understanding of world agriculture are able to successfully innovate in these 
areas. They are variously responsible for improving seeds, new chemistry for the 
control of pests and diseases, and the effective delivery of essential crop nutrients but 
what has so far been neglected is the notion of supporting crops against environmental 
stress: heat; drought; poor quality water. Solutions to these problems open new and 
exciting possibilities to make a further step change to secure the world’s food supply.
This is a nascent field with mainly boutique sized technology providers. We believe that 
Pi is one such company with a unique pipeline of crop yield enhancing products that 
work by tackling crop stress factors. Pi’s products were conceived through a deep 
understanding of the workings of plant systems, especially nutritional balances and 
immune responses, that led in turn to rationally constructed chemistry that assists 
crop plants in resisting a wide range of stresses. The trial results with Pi products 
from many crops in many countries grown in many different circumstances, show a 
remarkably consistent pattern of beneficial results measured by higher yield and 
better post-harvest quality. In a nutshell, this is the promise and excitement that 
attracted me to Pi and motivates the entire team.
The Company’s strategy is first to achieve financial break-even through organic 
growth with direct sales of proven products, then, with evident proof of commercial 
acceptance, to partner with an R&D major to exploit Pi’s technologies globally in major 
world crops. We believe such partnerships will be achieved because the incumbent 
input majors are all seeking ways to enhance their grower offer in ways that help 
crops to reach towards their genetic potential of maximum yield. With growing 
financial strength, the Company intends progressively to increase its own R&D 
funding sufficient to convert its pipeline into a flow of commercial products fit for 
precise purpose, and developing further its intellectual property and specialist 
knowledge. In time, the board of Pi (the ‘Board’) anticipates that Pi will build upon 
growing strength in this nascent sector, to establish a productive set of platform 
technologies to ensure a steady flow of innovation of these types of products.
 
Arysta Mexico distribution 
agreement 
Key event – June 2010 	 Plant	 Impact	 plc	 05 	
	 Annual Report and Group Financial Statements for the year to 31 March 2011 
Agrimatco evaluation and 
distribution agreement 
Key event – September 2010
With the aim of progressing towards financial self-sufficiency, Pi focused on its proven 
InCa product in the past year. InCa has shown performance in many crop situations 
especially in horticulture. Potatoes are often considered as an arable crop, but with 
many of the characteristics of horticulture. Potatoes respond particularly strongly to 
InCa and with an appreciable area under cultivation in Western Europe it represents a 
clear early target market for Pi. Growers in Holland have seen double digit percentage 
yield increases and marketable quality benefits with InCa treatments. The treatment 
cost/return equation is also compelling; growers can expect high returns from their 
investments in InCa treatments. In the past year Pi has assembled a dossier of potato 
trial results covering the main commercial varieties in Northern Europe. Pi has 
attracted the interest and support of the Dutch Co-operative Cebeco with whom the 
Company signed a distribution agreement in November last year. We expect progress 
in the current year with Cebeco driving InCa in the European potato crop market.
The Company also signed an exclusive distribution agreement for Mexico and Central 
America with Arysta LifeSciences (‘ALS’), the largest privately owned crop protection 
company in the industry. ALS has special skills in crop nutrition in this geography 
following their purchase of Grupo Bioquimico Mexico a crop nutrition company 
founded in Mexico. The Board considers that the ALS crop solutions approach is 
particularly suited for presenting InCa in local agriculture and expects sales in 
Central America to benefit from this new relationship in the current year.
Pi began its crop enhancement work in horticulture in the Middle East, principally in 
Jordan, a fertile country with a wide range of fruit and vegetable crops. In September 
last year, the Company signed an evaluation and distribution agreement for a number 
of markets in the Middle East with Agrimatco, a well financed and powerful distributor 
of Agchem, seeds and fertilisers in the region. Again, the Board expects to see the 
benefit of their commitment translated into sales in the current year.
The Company is at the beginning of the process of partnering with large agricultural 
R&D companies and has achieved freedom to operate in Brazil last year by securing 
registrations of its products in Pi’s name. Along with InCa, the modified Nitrogen 
product PiNT is included in large scale soya trials with Syngenta, the market leader 
in crop protection in Brazil. Brazil is second only to the USA in area of soya, but is 
catching up fast since they enjoy agronomic advantages in soya cultivation and areas 
are expanding. Soya in Brazil is an important place to be for a crop technology 
company. This collaboration is illustrative of the enthusiasm and openness with 
which R&D majors greet novel technology from third parties.
In the USA, trials with PiNT in the turf amenity market conducted at Penn State 
University on behalf of the Government agency USDA, proved successful in providing 
for better turf and lower nitrogen run-off and hence reduced pollution. USDA has 
given a public and positive endorsement of PiNT and accordingly, the Board expects 
to make first sales into the large golf green maintenance market this season with a 
company specialist in this sector, ALS.
An event which occurred post year-end, but which was substantially negotiated and 
concluded in the review year, has been the investment by ALS in Pi at a substantial 
premium to the prevailing share price. In exchange, ALS has secured an extension 
of their development and distribution rights to include Brazilian Horticulture and USA 
Turf and Ornamentals (including golf course maintenance). The Board considers 
that this transaction confirms the quality of Pi’s technology and progress with its 
partnering strategy. 06	 Plant 	 Impact	 plc	
 Annual Report and Group Financial Statements for the year to 31 March 2011
Chairman’s Statement continued
On the R&D front, work continues with the Environmental Centre of Lancaster 
University on the characterisation of Alethea, a sophisticated pipeline technology 
conferring stress tolerance on a range of plants including salt challenged maize 
(corn), a world crop of the first rank. R&D collaborations in the field now extend over 
40 countries and as many crops. Last year was a period when dossiers were built 
and performance confirmed in a number of important outlets. That process will 
continue in this current year.
Long-term watchers of Pi will no doubt be interested in developments with BugOil
®
, 
the Company’s natural product based resistance breaking insecticide. The field 
performance of BugOil
®
 continues to impress and the dossier of successful trials for 
the product in sole use and in combination with standard insecticides continues to 
grow. However, regulatory delays in the USA (work load at the EPA) and Europe have 
meant that the Company are revising back their anticipated launch date in these 
principal markets. Also, since country of origin registration is required for overseas 
registrations, the set back in the UK has wider implications, including delays in several 
overseas markets. Pi continues in close dialogue with the regulatory authorities and 
is providing the additional data demanded on BugOil
®
 in the UK. The Board will take 
proper and continuous account of overall commercial prospects when deciding on 
the amount of resource to dedicate to this product given the demands and short-term 
rewards promised from the ‘ready now’ crop enhancement range.
Looking back it is clear that 2010/11 was important for the focused manner in which Pi 
implemented its growth strategy. In my view, that strategy is both thoroughly realistic 
with respect to the Company’s current capabilities and yet is aspirational of the growth 
opportunities that the technologies can seize. The Board believes that Pi will be built 
on incremental achievements that are mutually reinforcing of the aims of self 
sufficiency and then global growth. I look forward to reporting on these steps as 
management build position and gain strength for the Company.
Financial review
In the year ended 31 March 2011, revenue was £1,783,525 (2010: £1,410,711). Although 
the overall increase at 26 per cent is below expectations, the underlying crop nutrient 
sales met expectations with an increase of 96 per cent from £910,711 in 2010 to 
£1,783,525 for this year. Crop nutrient revenues have improved for the third year in 
succession. The 2010 revenues benefited from the ALS BugOil
®
 licence agreement 
milestone payments, there were no such payments for this year.
Total expenses for the year were £3,114,320 (2010: £2,736,218), an increase of 13.8 per 
cent. Sales and marketing costs increased by £69,111, as a result of the increased 
geographical spread of sales activity and the first full year of direct activity in the 
Americas. Research and development expenditure increased by £122,833 due to the 
increased activity in crop nutrient development. General and administrative expenses 
increased by £186,158 mainly due to an increase in payroll, share-based payments, 
insurance, recruitment fees and plc costs.
The loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders increased to £1,628,838 (2010: 
£1,417,075). This increase is due to the delays in BugOil
®
 regulatory approvals and 
resultant milestone payments offset by improvements in crop nutrient revenues.
Going	 concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the Group Financial Statements. Further details are included in the Notes 
to the Group Financial Statements.
Syngenta Brazil trials 
Key event – September 2010 	 Plant	 Impact	 plc	 07 	
	 Annual Report and Group Financial Statements for the year to 31 March 2011 
Dividends
The Directors currently intend to devote the Group’s cash resources to its operations 
and therefore do not anticipate paying dividends in the near future. They will 
reconsider the Company’s dividend policy as and when the Company is in a position 
to pay dividends. The declaration and payment by the Company of any dividends will 
depend on the results of the Company’s operations, its financial condition, cash 
requirements, future prospects, profits available for distribution and other factors 
deemed to be relevant at the time.
Outlook
In the current year, BugOil
®
 milestones will be pursued with determination through 
continued data sourcing and dialogue with the authorities, but the Company’s future 
lies squarely in the promise of the nutrient range. It is here that the majority of the 
Company’s resources will be directed this coming year. The Pi sales team is focused 
on direct sales of InCa and PiNT and the technical team is positioning the Company’s 
products in sectors which are complimentary to the business aspirations of partners 
who have global reach and traction with growers. Already in the current year, we 
are seeing progress with both elements as direct sales and the announcement of a 
new subscription agreement for 10 per cent of the Company with ALS, (the world’s 
largest privately held Ag-Chem company) who purchased the shares at a premium to 
market of 76 per cent.
I am confident that this is the correct strategy for Pi and that we will be able to report 
steady progress this year in these twin directions.
I should like to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders who have supported 
Pi and have shared my belief in the promise of the technologies and management’s 
strategy for commercial development.
David Jones
Chairman
1 July 2011 
Cebeco distribution 
agreement
Key event – November 2010
