 Plasmon Plc
Annual Report 2003
Chief Executive’s Review
6
2002/3 has been another challenging
year for Plasmon with difficult economic
conditions and the continuing decline 
in our business with IBM depressing
overall revenues from £61 .6m to £60. 1 m.
In contrast to the disappointing trading
performance, our UDO development
programme made excellent progress in
2002/3 and we completed successfully
the transfer of our library business from
Minneapolis to Colorado Springs.
Chief Executive’s Review
Nigel Street
Chief Executive Plasmon Plc 
Annual Report 2003
Chief Executive’s Review
7
1 999 2000 2002
49.9
70.3
69.1
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
61.6
2003
60.1
0.3
4.1 4.2
6.3
3.4
(Loss)/profit before tax £ million
4
2
0
-2
-4
-6
-8
-10
2001
1 999 2000 2002 2003 2001
T urnover £ million In the first half of 2002/3, the Group
returned to modest growth with revenues
3% ahead at £30.1m. As we experienced
last year , our European operations
performed better than our business in the
US where economic conditions remained
difficult. In the final quarter of 2002/3 our
US business was further impacted by
events in the Middle East, and coupled
with a 10% movement in the average £:$
exchange rate our overall second half
revenues declined 7% from the previous
year . Since the cessation of hostilities we
are seeing increasing signs of activity in
the US, but we remain cautious about the
timing of any upturn in business. In
contrast, our European business grew
17% in 2002/3 and we expect to make
further progress in the coming year .
In light of the difficult trading conditions
our US reorganisation has proved both
timely and extremely necessary. The
reorganisation was finally completed in
September 2002 when the last library
engineers left our Minneapolis engineering
operation. These engineers were retained
for six months longer than the
manufacturing group to complete the new
Enterprise DVD library range that we
developed specifically for our major
medical imaging customers such as
Siemens Medical. From a peak of some
314 US employees in 2001, the US
reorganisation programme reduced the
headcount to 225 by April 2003. In
addition, we reduced our European
headcount by some 20 employees as part
of our overall cost control programme.
In 2002/3 our overall product mix remained
broadly constant and, in line with the sales
shortfall, our gross margins declined
slightly to 36.3% from 36.7% the previous
year . Following our reorganisation,
operating expenses before UDO
development expenditure, goodwill
amortisation and exceptional costs fell by
£2.0m to £16.4m. At the adjusted pre-tax
level we achieved a profit of £4.7m
compared to the £3.7m we achieved the
previous year . At the pre-tax level we
significantly reduced our full year loss to
£3.4m from £6.3m, after goodwill
amortisation of £1.1m and the final £0.5m
of US reorganisation costs.
UDO development expenditure increased
by 24% to £6.5m in 2002/3 as we entered
the final development phase of the drive
and media. The increased expenditure
was slightly ahead of our original
expectations and reflected additional
costs in reworking ASIC parts and the
consequent increase in quick-turn
prototype costs to keep the project on
schedule. In addition to fully expensed
development costs of £6.5m, we invested
a further £3.9m in capital equipment in
2002/3 as the UDO media production
facility in Melbourn neared completion.
Despite maintaining significant levels of
investment in 2002/3, our year-end gearing
remained comfortable at 34% compared
to 24% the previous year .
In March 2003 we secured new £7m
banking facilities with Venture Finance Plc,
the UK structured finance subsidiary of
ABN Amro. These new financing
arrangements have increased our
immediate liquidity by some £3.4m and
will provide sufficient funding to
complete UDO development and enter
volume production. Plasmon Plc
Annual Report 2003
Chief Executive’s Review
8
UDO Development
Ultra Density Optical (‘UDO’) is the next
generation of 5.25" drives and media that we
are developing to succeed the existing
9.1GB MO products we source from Sony .
UDO employs the latest blue laser
technology that provides an increased 30GB
capacity and a five-fold decrease in
incremental storage cost over existing MO
systems. Since commencing development
in 1999 we have worked closely with HP on
the project and expect them to become the
major OEM customer for UDO technology .
Since the successful demonstration of
working drives at Comdex last November ,
we have continued to make good progress
with our UDO development programme and
are now reading and writing data reliably in
form-factor drives. The final phases of the
development are now underway and involve
manufacturing increasingly large batches of
prototype drives and media to de-bug the
system fully and maximise performance
and reliability.
The UDO drive employs four ASIC chips that
have been specifically designed by Plasmon
and our development partners. Successful
development of these ASICs represented
one of the major risks in the UDO
programme but three of them are now
complete and fully tested. The final Optical
Disc Controller (ODC) chip has exhibited
some speed limitations during testing but a
revised design has now been released to
fabrication which should solve the
outstanding issues. Our total capital
investment in the ASICs will be some £3m
but they are critical to achieving the low
volume production costs that will allow UDO
to compete effectively in the market. 
Another area of significant risk in the UDO
programme was the availability of blue lasers
UDO optical media will be
manufactured in Cambridge and
will be available in both write-once
and rewritable formats  Plasmon Plc 
Annual Report 2003
Chief Executive’s Review
9
from Nichia, our Japanese supplier . In
December 2002 Nichia announced a new
agreement to collaborate with Sony on blue
laser development for use in Sony’ s ‘Blu-ray’
consumer video products. Nichia also
informed Plasmon that due to yield problems
with their existing laser , they were moving to
a revised laser design employing elements of
Sony technology . W e have now successfully
integrated the new lasers into our UDO
drives and we are confident that their
performance and reliability will comfortably
exceed our requirements.
The opto-mechanical assembly (‘OMA ’) for
the UDO drive is being developed by Pentax,
the leading Japanese optical technology
company . The hard tooling for the OMA is
now complete and we are currently
integrating production quality units into our
prototype drives. Our working relationship
with Pentax continues to be excellent and we
have recently despatched one of our
Japanese speaking engineers to Japan for
18 months to help transition the OMA to a
low cost volume production facility .
UDO media development is also making
good progress and we now have the majority
of the disk manufacturing equipment
installed at our facility in Melbourn. The new
cleanroom is fully commissioned and when
complete the production line will have a total
capacity of some 80,000 write-once and
rewritable UDO disks per month.
Development of the phase change recording
layers for UDO media is proceeding well and
the specification of the write-once disk is
now finalised for volume production. This will
employ a four layer structure based on phase
change technology licenced from Kodak that
we also use on our existing 12-inch optical
disk products. W e are therefore very familiar
with the manufacturing process for this
material and are confident a high yield
process will be achieved.
The rewritable phase change disk is in its final
testing phase and will employ an eight layer
structure to optimise rewrite cycle
performance, environmental longevity and
manufacturability . In January 2003 we signed
a licence agreement with Mitsubishi
Chemical Media (‘MCM’) for their patents
and technologies for improving rewrite cycle
and cross erase performance in phase
change rewritable media. Using MCM’ s
technology we have already exceeded the
UDO specification of 10,000 rewrite cycles
and with further optimisation, believe that
25,000 cycles may be achievable.
MCM are the world’ s largest optical disk
manufacturer and as well as first class
technical know-how , they have an excellent
quality reputation with the major OEM
customers such as HP and IBM. W e
continue to work closely with HP on their
UDO plans and as they move towards UDO
endorsement they are pressing MCM to be
the second source media manufacturer .
Major partners such as HP and MCM will be
critical in establishing UDO as the de-facto
standard in professional optical storage and
we continue to use every effort to secure
their endorsement of UDO.
Having established the UDO media
production facility and commenced trial
production runs, we are now working on
improvements to the 0.1mm cover layer
process to reduce volume production costs.
W e have recently approved a European
supplier of optical grade 0.1mm film that has
reduced our material costs by some 75%
over Far East suppliers. In addition, we are
also working on a new liquid spin coating
technique that is now providing excellent
uniformity and will dramatically reduce future
production costs.
The media cartridge is an important
component in the overall robustness and
reliability of UDO technology and has been
an area of intense focus over the last year .
W e have recently taken delivery of initial
samples from the final production tooling and
are now working with Dai-Nippon, our
Japanese supplier , to move volume
production to China to minimise long term
cartridge manufacturing costs.
Overall, the UDO development programme
is progressing well and we are on schedule
to make initial product deliveries in
September 2003. As expected, UDO’ s
common technology base with consumer
Blu-ray products continues to provide
technology leverage opportunities and will
ensure our long-term manufacturing costs
remain competitive.
5.25" 42%
12" 33%
CD/DVD 11%
Consultancy 7%
L TO tape 2%
Other 5%
Plasmon product mix 2003
5.25" 43%
12" 38%
CD/DVD 5%
Consultancy 6%
L TO tape 2%
Other 6%
Plasmon product mix 2002 Plasmon Plc
Annual Report 2003
Chief Executive’s Review
10
UDO launch plans
In addition to the drive and media
development programme, during the past
year we have invested considerable time
and resources on our UDO launch plans.
We successfully recruited new marketing
leadership in both the US and Europe and
are now adding business development
resources specifically focused on UDO to
our sales and marketing teams.
The launch programme for UDO initially
focused on trade shows and started with
the first demonstration of working UDO
drives at Comdex in November 2002. We
also demonstrated the products at the
AIIM show in New Y ork and Cebit in
Hanover , which is the largest IT trade show
in Europe. In addition to the product
demonstrations, we also presented a
series of seminars that explained UDO
technology and its positioning in the
overall storage market. We received a
considerable level of interest from these
initial activities and UDO is now well
known in the storage industry.
We are now commencing the second
phase of our launch activities with a
technical conference for third party
software vendors to enable them to
understand the technology and integrate it
into their software applications. We are
also planning a series of press and media
tours later in the year to generate general
awareness of UDO and increase its
exposure as we move into initial
production shipments.
The final element of our UDO launch plan
has focused on potential OEM customers
and our efforts to educate them and
support their integration activities. The
overall response to UDO has been
excellent and we believe the superior cost-
UDO drives will be manufactured 
in our Colorado Springs facility and
will have an initial capacity of
30GB. Future generations of UDO
products will have capacities of 60
and 120GB Plasmon Plc 
Annual Report 2003
Chief Executive’s Review
11
performance benefits of the technology
should attract significant OEM
endorsement over the coming months. 
Storage market overview
The storage market continues to be a
significant portion of the overall IT market
and the revenue declines of the last few
years stabilised in 2002/3. Storage
technology is now entering a period of
significant change that will provide a
number of opportunities and challenges
for Plasmon in the near future.
The drive towards networked storage
continues to gather momentum with the
goal of eradicating ‘islands of information’
and making all data available across the
enterprise. Networked storage is therefore
driving the requirements for storage area
networks (‘SAN’) and network attached
storage (‘NAS’) solutions and the
consequent need for Plasmon’s optical
library solutions to integrate seamlessly
into these environments.
Another important development in the
storage market last year was the arrival of
cheap, high performance Serial-A T A hard
disk drives. Due to their low cost, these
products are now being promoted in 
disk-to-disk back-up solutions that are
challenging the traditional market for 
back-up using tape libraries. In addition, the
low-end tape library market largely moved
to a commodity model last year with the
large PC brands beginning to promote
products directly to the end user , bypassing
traditional storage hardware channels.
From Plasmon’s perspective, the most
important development in the storage
market has been the recognition of the
importance of secure archival storage
following the high profile corporate and
securities fraud cases in the US last year .
There are now growing compliance
regulations in most industry sectors to
mandate how electronic records must be
archived. These regulations are driving
strong interest in data archival products
such as UDO. These developments have
also attracted the attention of traditional
hard disk vendors such as EMC and
Network Appliance, who are offering
Serial-A T A disk based solutions with
enhanced software to prevent data
deletion as an alternative to traditional
write-once optical archive solutions.
These changes and developments in the
storage market are generally very
beneficial for Plasmon as we launch our
UDO archive solutions in the coming year .
However , the downside is in our tape
business where we expect revenue growth
to remain difficult in a market under severe
margin pressure. In addition, the trend
towards networked storage solutions will
require updating of Plasmon’s NAS
connectivity offerings to improve the ease
of deployment of our UDO products.
5.25" T echnology
Over the past few years, our sales of 5.25"
optical libraries to IBM have declined by
some 60% as they continue to sell last
generation 5.2GB write-once solutions
and have not adopted the latest 9.1GB
technology. In December 2002 we signed
a new contract with IBM to provide native
support for Plasmon libraries on their
iSeries (AS400) server platforms. In the
future, this new agreement will enable
Plasmon to sell UDO libraries directly to
the IBM customer base to replace sales of
the previous generation products we
currently supply to IBM on an OEM basis.
Plasmon brand channel sales of 5.25"
products continued to grow last year but
failed to make up the IBM shortfall. Overall
sales of 5.25" technology declined some
6% to £24.9m as cheaper DVD solutions
increased their market penetration but we
also increased our market share in 5.25"
libraries at the expense of Hewlett
Packard. Our strengthening position 
will serve as an ideal launch point for 
UDO solutions in 2003 when we expect
the increased capacity and fivefold
decrease in incremental cost of UDO 
will drive renewed growth in our core 
5.25" business.
During the past year we continued to migrate
customers to our new G-Series range of
5.25" libraries and away from the older 
M-Series products. We now plan to end of
life the M-Series at the end of 2003 which
is also planned to be the last shipment date
for the IBM 3995 variant of the product.
In late 2002 our automation engineering
team in Colorado Springs commenced
development of a new range of entry level
G-Series libraries. These products will
have capacities from 24 to 180 cartridges
and provide market leading features at a
lower cost than our existing products. 
First shipments are scheduled to coincide
with initial UDO shipments in September
2003 and we are already seeing strong
OEM interest in the cost/performance
attributes of the new range. The new
products have also been designed to
accommodate our next generation NAS
hardware internally to provide integrated
network storage solutions.
The market for 5.25" products has been 
in slow decline in recent years as lower
cost DVD solutions have emerged.
However , UDO will redress this cost
disadvantage and we expect some major
OEM’s to endorse the technology in 2003,
which will lead to renewed growth for 
5.25" products and the establishment of
UDO as the de-facto professional optical
storage standard. Plasmon Plc
Annual Report 2003
Chief Executive’s Review
12
12" T echnology
The 12" business continues to be a major
part of Plasmon’s total revenue mix but
overall sales declined some 17% to
£19.6m. The majority of the reduction
was in sales of new drives that declined
58% to £1.4m as 12" solutions become
prohibitively expensive and customers
wait for UDO technology. Sales of 12"
media and service declined a more
modest 12% in total to £7.5m and
£10.1m, respectively.
The change in our 12" business was in line
with our expectations and the rate of
decline should slow as new drive sales
cease and the business becomes a media
and service annuity. The 12" customer
base is firmly wedded to write-once optical
storage solutions and is showing strong
interest in the significant cost advantages
of UDO technology. We are now working
on upgrade and conversion programmes
to migrate these customers to UDO but
still expect to enjoy significant revenues
from 12" media and service for several
more years.
CD/DVD
In response to demand from our major
medical imaging customers such as
Siemens Medical and GE Medical, we
introduced the Enterprise D-Series library
last year with a capacity of up to 2,175
discs. The library is derived from our G-
Series 5.25" platform and its development
was completed ahead of schedule in late
2002 by the outgoing Minneapolis
engineering team. 
The response to the Enterprise D has been
excellent and helped CD/DVD sales grow
139% to £6.5m last year . In mid-year we
secured Siemens Medical as a major new
customer for this product and the medical
imaging market in general is adopting DVD
technology because of its low cost. The low
performance of DVD solutions also
matches the infrequent access
requirements of the medical imaging
market, but the reduced reliability and ease
of use of DVD remains a major concern.
However , we expect UDO to regain market
share in this area as it offers higher
performance and reliability at the same
price point as DVD based solutions.
Consultancy
Our optical media consultancy business
had another excellent year in 2002/3 with
revenue growth of 9% to £3.9m compared
to £3.6m the previous year . During the year
we signed significant new agreements
with Intel Research to develop high-
density phase change storage technology
and with Unaxis AG, to develop 0.1mm
cover layer technology for volume Blu-ray
disc production.
Our CD-R and DVD-R consultancy
business with Ciba Specialty Chemicals
also performed well in 2002/3 and we
estimate the Plasmon-Ciba Ultragreen CD-
R dye has a 65% share of the world-wide
market for CD-R dyes. After a considerable
delay due to technical issues, Ciba will
finally launch a new DVD-R dye in mid 2003
and we expect this to drive significant future
royalty growth as recording video to DVD’ s
becomes a mainstream application.
L TO T ape
Our L TO tape library business was a major
disappointment in 2002/3 with revenues flat
at £1.4m. Although we successfully
completed our product range with the
Exabyte autoloader acquisition and
secured the necessary software support,
the market has since commodotised with
the entry of major PC brands such as Dell
with very aggressive pricing. In light of these
changes, we are reviewing our overall tape
strategy to position our products as part of
higher value added solutions and
consequently expect to achieve only
modest growth for this part of our business.
Software and Connectivity
Sales of our connectivity solutions, which
are included in the relevant major product
category, returned to growth last year with
revenues increasing 60% to £0.8m. During
the year we secured Siemens Medical as a
major new customer for our integrated
NAS connectivity solution to integrate with
the Enterprise DVD libraries they also
purchase from Plasmon. We expect this
trend for major customers to purchase
integrated connectivity and library
solutions from one vendor to increase in
the future and are already discussing
another major opportunity in the medical
imaging market.
We believe the move to networked storage
solutions will continue to be a major trend
within the storage market. Late in 2002 we
commenced development of a new range
of NAS-RAID products that will integrate
internally in our new G-Series libraries and
will provide industry standard connectivity
and performance to optical archive
solutions. The new solutions will be based
on Serial-A T A RAID and Linux software
and will significantly reduce the cost and
complexity of deploying UDO technology.
Other
The majority of this business sector
relates to our optical mastering business
in Caen which had an excellent year in
2002/3 and grew revenues by 31% to
£2.9m. The majority of production is now
CD-R and DVD video masters which we
supply to most of the major disc
manufacturers in the Far East. We are
now entering volume production of DVD-
R masters and expect this to drive further
growth in the coming year.
Longer term we plan to manufacture
masters for Blu-ray video discs and during
the past year we commenced
development of these products. Our
experience with UDO is proving highly
beneficial in this area and should enable
Plasmon to become a leading supplier of
masters and stampers for consumer disc
formats based on blue laser technology. Plasmon Plc 
Annual Report 2003
Chief Executive’s Review
13
Outlook
2002/3 has been a year of consolidation
for Plasmon in which we maintained stable
revenues and significantly reduced our
cost base at a time of industry and
economic downturn. We also made
excellent progress with our UDO
development programme and we are
confident of delivering a world-class
product and securing major OEM support
for our technology in the coming year .
Due to the high profile corporate fraud
cases of the past few years, the market for
secure archival storage products that
provide unalterable records of business
transactions and agreements is very
strong. We are therefore launching UDO at
an ideal time and we believe the inherent
cost and performance features of UDO will
ensure it is highly competitive in the
archival storage market. On this basis we
look forward to the future with confidence
and expect UDO technology to deliver
long-term growth in revenues and
profitability for the Plasmon Group.
Sales of integrated storage solutions
comprising libraries, servers and
Plasmon storage management
software are expected to increase
in the future
