 4 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Regulated Markets
Regulated markets continue to present 
significant potential for revenue growth and 
Playtech is in a prime position to take advantage 
of global market developments, such as those  
in Italy, Denmark, Spain, the Netherlands, 
Greece and Germany. Pleasingly, we announced 
that Playtech’s joint venture with Gauselmann, 
created in January 2012, was awarded two 
licenses by the state of Schleswig-Holstein for 
online casino and sports betting a year later.
While Playtech continued to focus on  
increasing income from regulated markets, 
revenue from dot.com operators also increased 
in 2012. These operators provide liquidity in 
most regulated markets and are important  
to the Company’s strategy, as they establish 
themselves in regulated markets and provide 
the cornerstone for our activities in regulated 
and soon to be regulated markets.
In France, Betclic Everest launched with 
Playtech’s iPoker network on iPoker.fr and 
iPoker.com in November. This was followed by 
the launch of Unibet.fr at the beginning of this 
year. Betfair has also commenced its migration 
onto the iPoker network, which is due to be 
completed in July 2013. These developments 
have cemented Playtech’s leadership in the 
poker market as the natural network of choice.
During the year, Playtech undertook a 
significant level of activity in anticipation of 
Spanish regulation and further liberalisation  
in Italy. The Company has enjoyed pleasing 
revenue growth following the launch in June  
of regulated casino, poker and sports betting in 
Spain and the launch in December of regulated 
online slots in Italy.
In the UK, the third and final phase of the Gala 
Coral programme was completed in the last 
quarter of the year and Betfair commenced  
its poker migration to the iPoker network.  
After the highly successful launch of coral.co.uk, 
Gala migrated most of its product verticals onto 
Playtech’s IMS platform. The offering includes 
some of Playtech’s more recent innovations, 
including the Playtech portal, a new mobile  
hub and an improved IMS. The current results 
from Gala Coral are exceeding expectations, 
illustrating the cumulative, positive impact 
derived through the cross-selling opportunities 
afforded by an integrated offering. 
In November, the Dutch government 
announced plans to sell the state-owned  
casino monopoly and legalise online gaming  
to increase competition. The government  
is expected to introduce a draft framework  
for consultation in the spring of 2013 with a 
finalised law expected to be approved by the 
end of the year. We anticipate that Playtech  
and its licensees will seek to benefit from  
these changes in the Dutch market.
Overview
Playtech again delivered an outstanding 
financial and operational performance  
in a year of significant change for the online 
gaming market. The Company increased 
revenue by 53% to €317 .5 million, gross income 
by 51% to €368.1 million and adjusted EBITDA 
grew by 49%. 
During the period, Playtech expanded its 
product offering both organically and through 
acquisitions, secured 19 new licensees including 
major operators such as Gala Coral and Betclic 
Everest, further extended its relationships with 
existing licensees, and entered into significant 
new joint venture opportunities.
The Company has the operational capacity  
to stimulate future growth, specifically in  
mobile gaming, which enjoyed a triple digit 
percentage performance increase. In order  
to maintain its high level of customer service, 
Playtech invested in new product development 
related to the mobile hub, IMS and player portal, 
enabling operators to create a bespoke player 
experience, and grew its employee base by  
63% to support the business and its customers.
Importantly, the Company surpassed a major 
milestone in achieving a Premium Listing on 
London’s Main Market in July and was included 
in the FTSE 250 Index in September. 
Chief Executive Officer’s Report
 “In 2012, Playtech strengthened its position 
as the clear market leader in the provision 
of software and services to the global 
gaming industry.”
Business Review Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5
Signs from the US are encouraging, with  
the news that the states of New Jersey and 
Nevada are to legalise online gaming and poker 
respectively. As a result, other US states may 
contemplate similar actions, however, such 
developments are in their infancy and there 
remains much work to do to resolve regulatory, 
political and practical considerations. A number 
of strategic partnerships are being pursued to 
prepare for the potential opportunities offered 
by this large, diverse market.
Elsewhere, the Company signed an agreement 
with Mexican market leader Caliente, and 
management believes that Playtech, given  
its commitment and proven track record, is 
positioned as the natural choice for operators  
in different regulated markets. 
Strategic Positioning
Playtech’s strategy of organic development, 
targeted acquisitions, partnerships and  
joint ventures has enabled it to maximise 
opportunities created by the significant 
changes in the online gaming industry.  
The industry is moving towards locally 
regulated markets as governments see the 
implementation of gaming tax and the sale  
of regulatory licenses as significant revenue 
streams. Land-based and digital channels  
are converging as regulatory authorities issue 
gaming licenses to land-based casinos for both 
static and online offerings. Through being able 
to offer a full turnkey solution, Playtech is able  
to partner with local brands and casinos to take 
advantage of these opportunities.
Mobile gaming continues to be one of the  
most significant growth drivers of the global 
online gaming industry. Playtech’s launch of  
the mobile hub in late 2012 has combined the 
established Mobenga mobile sports betting 
solution with other gaming products. This 
combination uniquely positions the Company 
to capitalise on further developments in this 
sector. Mobile gaming is essential to Playtech’s 
future success and we have invested heavily  
to develop the next generation of products, 
maximising new functionality on tablets and 
smartphones, while continuing to roll out 
products across all mobile platforms, including 
Android, Apple iOS and HTML5.
Playtech’s proven strategy further strengthened 
its market position, and the Company is seen  
as the leading software and services supplier  
to the online gaming industry, as evidenced  
by Playtech winning the Gaming Awards for 
iGaming software supplier of the year.
Acquisitions 
Playtech’s recent acquisitions, including 
Mobenga, Ash Gaming and Geneity, along  
with PTTS, have been fully integrated and 
continue to deliver significant benefits in  
terms of revenue, product capability, cross-sell 
opportunity and licensee relationships. 
Playtech’s capacity for further bolt-on 
acquisitions and joint ventures will be enhanced 
considerably following receipt of approximately 
£424 million for the sale of Playtech’s 29%  
stake in William Hill Online, which is expected  
to complete by the end of April. 
“ Playtech’s recent 
acquisitions continue  
to deliver significant 
benefits in terms of 
revenue, product capability, 
cross-sell opportunity  
and licensee relationships.”
Industry Awards in the Past Year: 6 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
On 1 1 March 2013, Playtech announced 
landmark software and services agreements 
with Ladbrokes. The existing Playtech offering 
to Ladbrokes, which includes the provision  
of bingo and software for land-based video 
licensing terminals, will extend to all product 
verticals other than sports betting, using a 
phased approach. The second is a significant 
agreement for PTTS to provide Ladbrokes with 
advisory services and to license sophisticated 
CRM methodologies and business intelligence 
to assist in the development and growth  
of Ladbrokes’s digital business. This is an 
outstanding transaction for PTTS, which 
continues to develop, delivering significant 
returns for the Company, which are anticipated 
to increase following the agreement with 
Ladbrokes. 
Products and Services
In 2012, Playtech made further investment into 
its product offering, extending its capabilities 
both horizontally and vertically through 
in-house development as well as through the 
introduction of acquired products. Playtech’s 
licensees benefitted from the introduction of 
the mobile hub and portal, as well as the IMS, 
enabling operators to offer a bespoke player 
experience available in all formats and channels. 
The combined system facilitates a two-way 
information flow from the IMS, providing 
licensees with greater real-time insight and 
control, and players with an improved user 
experience thereby maximising the potential  
of licensee online gaming operations.
Casino 
Playtech’s flagship product delivered another 
outstanding performance in 2012. Revenues 
increased 33% from a combination of organic 
growth, the addition of new licensees, 
expansion of the games portfolio, now 
including all Ash Gaming products, growth from 
mobile and the revamped live dealer offering, 
which is now available through all interactive 
channels, including mobile. Branded games  
are a valuable marketing tool for Playtech,  
and the Company has the largest portfolio  
of games available across multiple delivery 
channels including online, mobile, TV and 
gaming terminals. During 2012, Playtech 
launched 35 games and 21 branded games.
PTTS
Playtech offers affiliate marketing services and 
sophisticated CRM solutions, combined with 
advanced player management tools, which  
are of particular interest to new market entrants 
requiring a full turnkey solution as well as 
existing operators that would like to boost  
their online gaming operations.
During the year, PTTS grew to become 
Playtech’s second largest vertical. In July, 
Playtech announced that PTTS had achieved  
an annualised adjusted EBITDA in excess of  
€40 million in the first two quarters of 2012, 
fulfilling the condition for acceleration of  
the additional consideration of €140 million.  
The additional consideration outstanding  
at year end is scheduled to be paid in three 
instalments ending in January 2014.
Licensees
Playtech aims to provide its licensees with 
market-leading content, features, tools and  
a broad range of services that support and 
enhance their businesses.
Betclic Everest launched its poker products  
on the iPoker network for dot.fr and dot.com.  
In addition, several other licensees increased  
the number of product verticals licensed from 
Playtech. These developments reflect Playtech’s 
success in strengthening its relationships  
with existing licensees through an integrated 
solution, which helps deliver maximum  
player yields.
Gala Coral completed its three-stage 
programme to move its entire online gaming 
operation to Playtech’s IMS, which we believe 
serves as a significant endorsement of the 
Company’s market-leading cross-product 
technology. Playtech now provides Gala Coral 
with an improved IMS, a newly developed 
portal, innovative mobile hub, and a full  
range of gaming products. Gala Coral will use 
Playtech’s systems to manage all of its online 
activities including Gala Casino and Gala Bingo, 
as well as Coral.
Pleasingly, Betfair decided to migrate its  
poker offering to Playtech’s iPoker network, 
commencing the migration plan in the year  
with completion anticipated for July 2013.
In connection with the regulation of the 
Spanish, French and Danish markets, Playtech 
gained a number of new licensees. Certain 
existing licensees also underwent regulation 
and now offer their services on a dot.local  
basis as compared to a previous dot.com basis.
Chief Executive Officer’s Report (continued)
Business Review
Playtech’s flagship  
casino product delivered 
revenue growth of 33%  
in 2012. Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7
The acquisition of PTTS has been highly 
successful, delivering outstanding results.  
We have also demonstrated that the ability to 
offer a full turnkey solution or advisory services 
is essential to attracting further business 
opportunities. Through PTTS we can provide 
operators, both existing and new licensees, 
including dot.com operators or new entrants  
in regulated markets, access to best of breed 
marketing and CRM services as well as other 
ancillary services. PTTS has a proven track 
record of more than a decade and is a 
fundamental element to the future success  
of the Company. 
Bingo
Playtech provides the industry’s leading bingo 
offering and operates the industry’s largest 
bingo network. Bingo continues to perform 
strongly, increasing revenue in the period  
by 19% to €18.0 million (2011: €15.1 million). 
Strong organic growth was complemented  
by the launch in the third quarter of Gala Bingo 
and in the fourth quarter of vernons.com and 
our mobile bingo offering, which is available  
on Android and Apple iOS, supported by 
promotional activity during the final two  
weeks of the year.
Playtech’s bingo brand, VirtueFusion, has  
once again won a number of industry awards, 
including eGaming Review’s Bingo Network  
of the Year, and the Bingo Summit’s Best Bingo 
Software, for the third year running.
Poker 
The international poker market remained 
challenging throughout the year. However, 
Playtech recorded an uplift in revenue in  
the latter part of the fourth quarter and  
the beginning of 2013 following a number  
of new licensees joining the iPoker network.
During the year, as part the phased migration 
plan, Gala Coral launched on the iPoker network 
followed by Betclic and Everest who launched 
on the iPoker.fr and iPoker.com networks and 
Betfair.com, which launched on iPoker.com and 
iPoker.es. These licensee wins in conjunction 
with Playtech’s poker liquidity programme 
initiated in August, significantly increase the 
poker network’s liquidity, which is seen as  
key to attracting poker players and licensees 
when choosing a supplier, and supported the 
on-going improvement in poker performance. 
In addition, Playtech also introduced a variation 
of Speed Holdem which increased revenue from 
cash games.
iPoker remains the largest and leading 
worldwide independent poker network.  
A number of significant licensees are in 
discussion with Playtech regarding joining  
the network. During the year a number  
of new CRM tools and an improved user 
interface supported by a revamped version  
of the poker client were launched. 
“ The acquisition of  
PTTS has been highly 
successful, delivering 
outstanding results.”
Once again Playtech had a very substantial presence at the ICE gaming show in London in January 2012. 8 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
return on invested marketing. Playtech’s 
experience so far is that mobile presents an 
incremental opportunity as revenues, margins 
and activity levels are higher compared with 
other interactive channels. Mobile remains a  
key focus for the Company and development 
continues of the next generation of the mobile 
offering that will be even more exciting and 
appealing to a larger audience.
Live
Playtech was the first company to introduce  
live gaming products specifically tailored for 
local markets. As technology has evolved, the 
popularity of live gaming formats has grown 
significantly. In 2012, the live gaming product 
underwent a comprehensive redevelopment  
to include new features and functions appealing 
specifically to live gaming players and designed 
to capitalise on our first mover advantage  
in order to retain that lead. In parallel, we 
introduced a mobile version for the live gaming 
product complementing the product offering 
available on other interactive channels. In 2012, 
Gala Coral migrated its live casino across its 
brands and we expect additional licensees to 
migrate to our live gaming offering in the near 
future. In Spain, Playtech partnered in January 
2013 with Casino Gran Madrid to offer live dealer 
services to the Spanish market.
Sports 
Sports is one of the largest gaming markets  
and frequently acts as the gateway for  
players to access other gaming experiences. 
Furthermore, recent events have shown that 
sports is typically one of the first products to  
be approved in newly regulated markets. In line 
with our strategy to provide a comprehensive 
solution, and our focus on regulated markets, 
the Company acquired Geneity, a world class,  
fully integrated and complete sports platform. 
There are significant opportunities for this 
business, which has been integrated with both 
the Mobenga mobile sports product and IMS, 
and which has already won its first two sports 
licensees. We expect to see significant growth 
from sports over the next quarters as more 
licensees are added.
Videobet
In 2012, Videobet technology was deployed  
in more than 400 additional terminals, ending 
the year with approximately 23,000 machines. 
The expansion of Videobet into emerging and 
other markets, such as Mexico and Puerto Rico, 
together with location growth by some existing 
licensees and new markets currently in test, 
provide a solid pipeline for 2013.
Mobile
The growth of mobile continues to outperform 
all other product channels. The success by 
different operators has led to significant 
investments by the Company to ensure that  
it captures the market leading position in the 
space. Following the acquisition of Mobenga, 
the market leader in mobile sports betting,  
the Company has initiated an innovative internal 
programme, called the Mobile Hub, converging 
mobile sports betting and mobile gaming 
products into one offering. Enabled by mobile 
touch screen functionality, the new Mobile Hub 
creates an exciting new experience for players, 
with the same products that are available 
through other interactive channels and share 
the same poker and bingo pools and jackpots.  
It also creates for the first time in our industry 
the ability to acquire players through the sports 
betting vertical and then offer other verticals 
within the same application, maximising the 
Chief Executive Officer’s Report (continued)
Business Review
Mobile and Mobile Hub
The Mobile Hub combined  
with the market-leading mobile 
sportsbook provider and 
Playtech subsidiary Mobenga,  
is an open framework  
designed to integrate content 
and deliver players a seamless 
user experience on mobile 
devices. Through a branded 
and unified interface, an 
operator’s full product offering 
is available to players on  
their smartphone or tablet  
and can be customised and 
managed through a centralised 
management system.
As an open platform, the Mobile Hub allows 
operators to integrate any software and content 
using standard and friendly API’s. The new 
technology has made it quick and easy to  
plug-and-play both Playtech and third party  
mobile content minimising the work load for 
operators. Built on HTML5 technology, the Mobile 
Hub is compatible with web browsers, native 
applications and across all HTML5 ready devices. Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9
People
Playtech’s people remain key to the Company’s 
continued success. A great example of the 
quality of the Company’s employees are their 
great achievement to ensure that Playtech 
established itself as market leader in the mobile 
gaming space, following the introduction  
of mobile technologies. When the Company 
assesses potential acquisition targets or 
potential joint ventures, it places a high  
value on the existence of a complementary 
culture of employee service and innovation.
In terms of delivery, human capital is as critical 
as financial capital. Playtech has continued  
to invest significantly in human resources  
to maintain its position as a leading quoted 
supplier of software and services to the online 
gaming industry by delivering innovative high 
quality products and services to its clients. 
William Hill Online
With the agreed valuation of approximately 
£424 million for its 29% stake in William Hill 
Online, together with dividends received  
over the four years since inception, Playtech  
has generated a cash return on investment  
of more than 3.5 times. The success of the  
joint venture demonstrates the potential of 
creating significant value by combining a well- 
established brand with Playtech’s best of breed 
technologies, products and services. Through 
participation in this joint venture, Playtech 
widened the breadth of its expertise and proved 
how successful and valuable a partnership of 
this nature can be for its stakeholders. While  
the sale of its stake will bring to a close a highly 
successful and profitable joint venture for 
Playtech, the Company will continue to enjoy  
a close working relationship with William Hill, 
which will remain a top-five licensee.
The sale process is expected to complete by  
the end of April 2013, and the Board, with its 
advisers, is undertaking a broad review of the 
most effective use of the proceeds from the 
disposal, taking into consideration feedback 
from shareholders and the Company’s 
requirements going forward. The Board  
will, amongst other strategic options, assess  
the potential for further value-enhancing 
acquisitions, joint ventures and partnerships, 
focusing on regulated markets, together  
with the possibility of a return of capital to 
shareholders. Playtech has a proven ability to 
provide shareholder value through successful 
acquisitions and management is confident  
that this will continue.
Outlook
Playtech has made a strong start to 2013,  
with average daily revenues for the first 1 1 
weeks of 2013 up over 15% on Q1 2012 and  
up 5% on Q4 2012.
The anticipated revenue from the number of 
new licensees who launched during the last 
quarter of 2012, the introduction of slots in Italy 
and the extension of existing relationships, such 
as the migrations of Betfair poker and unibet.fr 
followed by the progress made in the year  
to date, such as the landmark agreement with 
Ladbrokes, secures the Company’s position  
in 2013 and beyond. Playtech is in a prime 
strategic position and is well capitalised to take 
advantage of opportunities from the evolving 
global regulatory landscape and we look 
forward to the future with confidence. 
Mor Weizer
Chief Executive Oﬃcer
14 March 2013
