 Mor Weizer, Chief Executive Officer
“the Group introduced and deployed a true 
omni-channel solution, all products, in all 
formats, on all platforms, across all channels, 
integrating retail, web and mobile channels 
for the first time in the industry.”
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11
Chief Executive’s Review
Overview
In 2014, Playtech continued to make excellent operational 
progress in key areas such as casino, sport, mobile, land-
based and services. Additionally the Group introduced and 
deployed a true omni-channel solution, all products, in all 
formats, on all platforms, across all channels, integrating retail, 
web and mobile channels for the first time in the industry. 
This approach is an evolution of the multi-channel offering 
that enables customers to deliver a seamless consumer 
experience through all available distribution channels including 
computers, mobile Internet devices and bricks-and-mortar. 
The Board strongly believes this approach will become the 
standard for retail and online operators alike.
The Group’ s first deployment of its new omni-channel 
solution, for Coral, exemplifies its offer to licensees, delivering 
a single customer log-in and the ultimate customer journey 
across retail, web and mobile. Additionally it maximises 
profitability through full visibility across all delivery channels 
and an enhanced customer experience.
In line with its strategy, Playtech continued to diversify its 
business by supporting its licensees as they expand into 
new markets; extending into additional regulated and soon-
to-be regulated markets with new and existing licensees; 
signing additional structured agreements with licensees 
that have great future potential; and extended into a new 
vertical – casual gaming – by establishing Plamee, a games 
development studio. 
Playtech’ s mobile strategy places portable devices at 
the heart of the Company’ s research and development 
activities, given mobile is rapidly becoming the natural choice 
for players. Mobile revenues continued to grow strongly, 
reflecting Playtech’ s investment in mobile technology, which 
coincides with players embracing the greater convenience of 
mobile gambling.
As management has stated previously, the ability to offer 
a comprehensive sportsbook has long been a significant 
milestone in unlocking additional growth opportunities 
with new and existing licensees. Having delivered a highly 
competitive sport offering, integrated with the IMS, the 
Group has seen revenues from this vertical of the business 
grow substantially, and it has been instrumental to winning 
high profile new structured agreements in Mexico and Italy. 
Sport remains a catalyst for Playtech’ s future success. 
Regulated markets
Playtech continued to improve future regulated markets 
revenue, starting the year by signing Holland Casino in 
preparation for regulation of the Dutch market. In addition, 
the Group completed the migration of Ladbrokes onto 
its platform, whilst also expanding Ladbrokes into Spain, 
Belgium and Denmark. bet365 extended its activities with 
Playtech in Italy; the Group launched Skybet with casino and 
Live; and also provided Live to RAY . Additionally, Playtech 
signed a turnkey solution agreement with Trinity Mirror and 
significant structured agreements with Caliente and RCS 
Media for the Mexican and Italian markets respectively.
Regulated, regulating and soon-to-be regulated markets 
continue to present significant opportunities for revenue 
growth and Playtech is ideally positioned to benefit from 
global market trends and specifically developments in 
Europe, Africa and Asia. The Board continues to believe 
that its strategic commitment to, and proven track record 
in, regulated markets makes Playtech the natural choice for 
operators in regulated and soon-to-be regulated markets. 
In 2014 regulated markets represented 36% of revenue 
(2013: 35%) and grew faster growth than dot.com activities. 
While Playtech made significant progress in regulated 
markets, dot.com operators remain an important part of the 
Group’ s future progress as those markets continue to grow 
and move toward regulation.  Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 12
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Strategic update
Playtech’ s long-term strategy of organic growth, and 
developing new business opportunities and joint ventures 
supported by targeted acquisitions, has for many years driven 
the Company’ s performance, benefitting from the significant 
opportunities in the global gambling industry. In 2014 this 
strategy continued to drive growth with Playtech winning 
substantial new business from new and existing licensees 
in addition to strong like-for-like growth. 
Management continues to focus on accelerating this growth 
using the Company’ s significant cash resources and cash 
flow to identify and secure strategic opportunities that can 
drive additional growth and create shareholder value.
Playtech continued to invest in its market-leading offering, 
both organically and via a number of smaller strategic 
acquisitions to bolster its flagship casino, sport and retail 
offerings. In acquiring the Aristocrat business in September, 
Playtech became the world’ s largest supplier of VLT software, 
and will look to create further opportunities by investing 
in new and emerging product verticals that will create the 
foundations for future growth. 
Our unique omni-channel solution, combined with our leading 
sport offering, is attracting much attention from new and 
existing operators who are keen to adopt this market-leading 
technology. It will enable them to extend their operations 
beyond retail to online, as markets regulate across different 
continents; significantly enhancing the service they provide 
customers by enhancing the customer journey and meeting 
changing regulatory demands. While best-of-breed products 
are important ingredients of this solution, we now take a 
holistic view that extends beyond channels, platforms or 
products focusing on delivering an offering that will create 
the ultimate player journey. As part of this development, 
Playtech rolled out its landmark BIT Solution, a package 
of cutting-edge data-driven performance-enhancing tools, 
which combine and boost the power of the IMS platform. 
This flexible tool set consists of: Playtech Optimiser; Game 
Adviser; Playtech Analytics; BI Reporting; and Smart Installer. 
It enables new levels of insight and personalisation of the 
entire player lifecycle, from pre-acquisition through to all player 
activities. Consequently, operators now have greater player 
intelligence and increased control over their activities.
Early in 2014, Playtech established Plamee, a new casual 
games development studio with the intention of penetrating 
the lucrative and rapidly growing casual gaming market. 
The studio’ s first game rolled out early in 2015 and is now 
available on different social networks including Facebook 
and mail.ru. Additional games are expected to be rolled out 
later in 2015. The new initiative is the first element of our 
unique three-pronged strategy that includes internal casual 
games development capabilities, casual games development 
platforms and technology as well as publishing and online 
marketing capabilities supporting marketing of both internally 
developed and third-party games. 
Casino
Playtech’ s flagship casino product was a key driver of 
growth throughout the year, with revenue increasing 29% 
and beating 2013’ s performance. This was driven by a 
combination of organic growth and new licensees, including 
Ladbrokes; the expansion of the games portfolio; and growth 
from the mobile and Live offerings.
Agreements already in place with Sky Bet, Trinity Mirror, 
Caliente and Holland Casino, along with proposed changes 
in the Spanish market are enabling Playtech to secure future 
casino growth, while the continued regulation of additional 
markets will provide further opportunities over a longer 
time horizon.
Services
Services revenue was 20% higher than 2013 and Playtech’ s 
unique offering remains a significant competitive advantage 
to existing betting and gaming operators and for companies 
with an understanding of local markets, such as media 
groups wanting to take advantage of regulatory changes and 
newly regulating markets across Europe, South America, 
Africa and elsewhere.
The ability to successfully operate an online gambling 
operation requires three elements: a strong brand to build 
trust with the consumer; best-in-class technology; and the 
know-how, expertise and unique capabilities necessary to 
efficiently monetise and retain players to drive player value. 
These skills differ significantly from those used by operators 
of existing land-based businesses and are totally different in 
the case of media groups. Playtech’ s unique ability to meet 
the technological and operational needs of these customers 
makes it a natural partner. 
Experience shows that the largest operators in regulated 
markets or soon-to-be regulated markets look for a strategic 
partner that can supply the technology, marketing expertise 
and sophisticated CRM solutions, combined with advanced 
player management tools, which are of particular interest to 
new market entrants requiring a full turnkey solution as well as 
to existing operators wanting to boost their online gambling 
operations. In 2014 two new structured agreements 
incorporating significant services elements were signed 
with Caliente in Mexico, RCS Media in Italy and a turnkey 
solution for Trinity Mirror in the UK. Further such agreements 
are expected. Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13
Sport
This year has been one of significant progress for Playtech’ s 
sport offering: firstly in rolling out the unique omni-channel 
offering that supports the convergence of retail, web and 
mobile; the acquisition of a retail sports betting supplier, 
giving Playtech a unique A-to-Z sport offering of retail, 
online and mobile; rolling out the Playtech sport platform for 
Ladbrokes in Spain and Belgium; securing additional growth 
opportunities in Mexico and Italy; and demonstrating the 
platform’ s robust performance having successfully traded 
through an entire calendar of sports events, including the 
football World Cup.
Sports betting is one of the largest elements of gambling 
worldwide and frequently acts as a gateway for players to 
access other gaming experiences. It is also usually one of 
the first products to be approved in newly regulated markets. 
Sport revenue increased 54% in 2014 and is expected 
to continue growing strongly, benefitting from operators 
launched during 2014 and from a strong pipeline of potential 
licensees that are keen to revamp their legacy systems with 
a new integrated retail, web and mobile solution, provided 
by Playtech. 
Bingo
Playtech gained a number of new licensees over 2014, 
including Trinity Mirror, Ladbrokes in Spain and Paddy 
Power in Italy. As expected, bingo on mobile devices was 
up on the previous year and in time is expected to become 
the predominant bingo format as more players transacted 
through mobile devices in 2014 – including the Company’ s 
new tablet version. While Playtech continues to operate the 
industry’ s largest bingo network – working with its licensees 
to create market-leading promotions to further improve 
the player experience across all distribution channels – the 
industry remains in a state of transition, as indicated at the 
interim results.
A revamped bingo product offering a new, more appealing, 
experience to players is currently under test and initial 
feedback from operators is very pleasing. The new product 
offers a feature-rich user interface, customised for different 
channels including web, smartphones and tablet devices. 
Land-based
Playtech’ s land-based vertical enjoyed revenue growth of 
35% over 2014, benefitting from the acquisition of Aristocrat, 
which further diversified revenues supplying 6,700 terminals 
in two fully regulated markets. The Company also acquired 
a retail sport offering, which while currently modest, is 
expected to form the base for significant future opportunities. 
Sales cycles of gaming machines are longer than online and 
trials are running in two other key markets, giving a strong 
potential pipeline for 2015 and beyond.
The trend continues for existing online customers to enquire 
about extending their relationship to create a seamless player 
offering, using a single user name and password, giving a 
familiar experience and the same content across channels.
The acquisition of the Psiclone games studio brought 
immediate revenue growth from its existing and new market-
leading gaming content.
Poker
While Playtech continued to invest in its leading independent 
iPoker
®
 network and welcomed a number of new licensees, 
the broader decline in the market was not fully mitigated. 
Playtech’ s innovative rake distribution structure is now being 
rolled out and the Company expects further innovation to 
encourage operators to invest in poker and therefore improve 
the ecology of the poker market.
Poker remains a small, but important, element of Playtech’ s 
overall offering, being one of the first gaming formats currently 
to be regulated – and in some markets the only gaming 
product allowed. It also remains an incremental product 
for licensees who are keen to provide a full offering to 
their customers. Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 14
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Mobile
Playtech’ s market-leading mobile offering uniquely positions 
it to benefit from one of the global online gambling industry’ s 
most significant growth drivers as it offers the largest portfolio 
of mobile games; the most extensive pipeline of new games 
for all channels; and a hub that incorporates all of those 
alongside sports and other betting and gaming products, 
supporting their growth through cross-selling opportunities.
Over 2014, revenue from Playtech’ s mobile channel increased 
64%, reflecting investment into new technology, greater 
marketing investment by operators and a greater acceptance 
by players. The Company’ s Mobile Hub remains the pre-
eminent platform for a seamless mobile player journey, which 
remains central to the success of licensees. Playtech’ s mobile 
proposition is customised for specific smartphone and tablet 
models and can be adapted over time as player trends 
emerge – typically mobile sessions are more frequent but 
shorter; and in aggregate players engage for a longer period 
of time. 
During 2014 the Company continued with its mobile-first 
approach and invested heavily into this channel further 
developing its mobile development framework which 
enables the Company to simultaneously roll out games 
across HTML5 for web as well as native iOS and Android, 
supporting all mobile devices and tablets. This framework 
allows the Company to release existing games on to mobile 
platforms and enables the release of an increased number of 
new games across all channels going forward. In increasingly 
competitive markets, operators can leverage marketing 
the release of games across all channels at the same time, 
rather than offering different games on different channels 
or alternatively release the games at different times without 
harming the return on marketing spend. 
Casual and social
Playtech’ s casual gaming strategy is unique and intended to 
create a comprehensive development environment in which 
the Company will have its own games creation capabilities; 
an open platform supporting third-party games developers; 
and publishing capabilities enabling the Company to 
mass market games developed internally as well as those 
developed by third parties. 
An internally developed resource, Plamee was the first 
element of this strategy to be delivered and it has a pipeline 
of highly sophisticated 2D and 3D games, some of which are 
already live or in advanced testing. Recently acquired Yoyo is 
a leading development platform, providing the Company with 
access to more than 750,000 games development partners 
through its software development kit. Management is looking 
into other businesses that can bolster this new offering and 
grow Playtech’ s presence and competence in both casual 
and social gaming.
These transactions complement Playtech’ s experienced 
management team and can act as gateway into soon-to-be 
regulated markets. Management continues to believe that 
this is an area of future potential that can generate significant 
long-term shareholder value. 
People
Playtech has continued to invest in human resources to 
maintain its position as the leading supplier of software and 
services to the online gambling industry. Our people are the 
single most important facet of the business and vital to our 
current and future success. Only by developing our people to 
realise their true potential can we progress as a business and 
maintain our market-leading position.
Trading update
Playtech has continued momentum with a strong start to 
2015, with daily average revenues for the first eight weeks of 
the year up over 22% on Q1 2014 and up over 5% on Q4 
2014, including some benefit from current euro weakness.
In summary, over 2014 Playtech built on its position as 
the leading provider of software and services to the global 
gambling market, adding products and services that will 
help secure future opportunities. Playtech will continues to 
capitalise on its clear strategy and strong balance sheet 
and, while there are anticipated regulatory developments 
ahead, management looks forward with confidence to 2015 
and beyond.
Mor Weizer
Chief Executive Officer
26 February 2015
