 13
Playtech plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Governance Financial statements s trategic report
Strategic report
Chai Rman’ S St at EmEnt
giving a total 2013 ordinary dividend of 23.2 € 
cents per share (2012: 23.2 € cents per share), 
maintaining the level distributed for 2012 as the 
Board committed to at the time of Playtech’ s 
interim results announcement.
T ogether, the total distribution of ordinary 
dividends in respect of 2013 and the special 
dividend equate to a return of capital to 
shareholders of approximately €188.5 million.
Subject to shareholder approval of the final 
dividend at the annual general meeting, to 
be held on 21 May 2014, the dividend will be 
payable on 23 May 2014 to those shareholders 
on the Company’ s register as at the record date 
of 28 February 2014. The ex-dividend date is 
26 February 2014.
For any shareholders who elect to receive 
their final dividend in sterling, the conversion 
exchange rate from euros into sterling will be 
set on 7 May 2014 and election forms should 
be returned to the Company’ s registrars by 
2 May 2014.
The Company’ s dividend policy going forward 
remains to pay out 40% of adjusted net profit, 
supported by strong underlying growth in 
earnings and cash generation.
While there are a number of anticipated 
regulatory and fiscal developments in our core 
market place, Playtech’ s leading position in a 
global, growing industry means the Board is 
confident of the Company’ s prospects both 
in 2014 and in the longer term. In summary, 
Playtech has reported another excellent year, 
and continues to deliver on its clear strategy 
and strong balance sheet. 
Alan Jackson
Chairman 
20 February 2014
In my first presentation as Chairman of Playtech, 
I am delighted to report that the year ending 
31 December 2013 was another exceptional 
period in Playtech’ s development. One of the 
most significant highlights was the completion 
of the sale of our stake in William Hill Online. 
This transformational transaction delivered a 
substantial return of over 3.5 times the original 
investment. Playtech also signed two landmark 
agreements with Ladbrokes to revolutionise the 
bookmaker’ s digital offering until 2017.
The Company has a proven ability to generate 
value through successful acquisitions, and 
management is confident that this will continue. 
The Board, with its advisers, continues to review 
the most effective use of the Company’ s cash 
resources, assessing the potential for further 
value-enhancing acquisitions, joint ventures 
and partnerships, particularly focusing on 
regulated markets.
Playtech is the clear market leader in the 
provision of software and services to the global 
online gambling industry. Its offering includes a 
full product suite, leading-edge management 
system, full integration across all player 
interfaces and distribution channels and a broad 
range of marketing services and techniques that 
enable licensees to maximise the potential of 
their online gambling business.
During 2013, a number of additional jurisdictions 
either became or made significant progress 
towards becoming regulated markets, creating 
significant further opportunities for Playtech. 
Management continues to monitor the evolving 
regulatory environment closely and will continue 
to leverage its leading position and establish 
itself in such regulated markets which make the 
most commercial sense. 
Following high growth in mobile gambling, a key 
focus for 2013 was the continued development 
of Playtech’ s mobile platform, which has 
propelled the Company to global leader 
status in the mobile gambling space. We see 
continued development of our mobile offering as 
a means to drive our competitive position and to 
set standards across the industry.
Another rapidly developing market for the 
Company is sports betting, where a significant 
number of achievements have been made over 
the period. Sports betting remains a key focus 
for growth in 2014 and beyond. 
gOV eRn Ance And Risk m An Agement
Playtech is committed to the highest levels 
of corporate governance. As previously 
announced on 10 October 2013, Roger 
Withers retired as Chairman and as a director of 
Playtech, and I would like to thank Roger for his 
invaluable leadership since we both joined the 
Board at the Company’ s IPO in 2006. 
Following the announcement of Roger Withers’ 
intention to retire at the time of the interim 
results, the Board set about finding a strong, 
independent non-executive director and was 
delighted to welcome Hilary Stewart-Jones to 
the Board effective 9 October 2013. Hilary is 
a leading international expert in gambling law 
and has over 15 years’ experience advising 
companies on gambling related issues.
diVidends
In light of the Company’ s substantial cash 
assets and following discussions with 
shareholders, the Board has decided to pay 
a special dividend of £100 million to be paid 
in sterling to shareholders on the register on 
28 February 2014 and payable on 11 March 
2014, as a second interim dividend in respect 
of the financial year ended 31 December 2013. 
The ex-dividend date for the special dividend will 
be 26 February 2014.
In addition, the Board has today recommended 
a final dividend of 15.4 € cents per share, 
Playtech has reported another excellent year, 
and continues to deliver on its clear strategy 
and strong balance sheet. t ogether, the total 
distribution of ordinary dividends in respect  
of 201 3 and the special dividend equate to  
a return of capital to shareholders of 
approximately €188.5 million.
Alan Jackson, c hairman
❝
❞
