 Alan Jackson, Chairman
“Playtech has continued to deliver exceptional 
performance by focusing on consolidating its 
position as the world’s leading software and 
services provider to the online gambling 
industry. By expanding its licensee 
relationships; creating innovative new 
content; enhancing its products; and 
deepening its customer focus, the business 
has continued to thrive.”
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 10
Chairman’s Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2014, Playtech again 
achieved an exceptional performance, with total revenues up 
24% to €457.0 million and Adjusted EBITDA increasing 30% 
to €207.1 million, demonstrating further progress in executing 
our proven strategy.
The Group continues to be highly cash generative, driving 
progress through strong organic growth, successful 
acquisitions, strategic partnerships and joint ventures, as 
demonstrated throughout this year. Playtech’ s impressive 
results have been achieved through the continued growth 
of its flagship casino product; PTTS services division; strong 
growth in sport as well as expansion of our mobile and 
land-based offerings. It is also pleasing to see a progressive 
improvement in the proportion of revenues generated from 
regulated markets. The industry is in the midst of a transition 
towards regulation and the Group is ideally placed to continue 
taking advantage of this trend.
In order to better position the business for future opportunities 
the Group successfully issued a convertible bond in 
November, which was oversubscribed. The Board remains 
focused on the most effective use of the Group’ s cash 
resources, including the potential for further strategic activity. 
The focus here remains that of growing Playtech’ s presence 
in regulated and soon-to-be regulated markets, via bolt-on or 
more strategic acquisitions and partnerships. 
Governance
Playtech is committed to the highest levels of corporate 
governance and has strengthened its regulatory and internal 
audit teams with senior management appointments, while 
appointing Hilary Stewart-Jones as Deputy Chairman at the 
beginning of December.
Dividend
In line with the Company’ s dividend policy of distributing 40% 
of adjusted net profit, the Board has recommended a final 
dividend of 17.5 € cents per share, giving a total ordinary 
dividend of 26.4 € cents per share for 2014 (2013: 23.2 € 
cents per share), an increase of 13.8%.
Subject to shareholder approval of the final dividend at 
the annual general meeting, to be held on 20 May 2015, 
the dividend will be payable on 5 June 2015 to those 
shareholders on the Company’ s register as at the record date 
of 8 May 2015. The ex-dividend date is 7 May 2015.
For any shareholders who elect to receive their dividends in 
sterling, the conversion exchange rate from euros into sterling 
will be set on 8 May 2015 and election forms should be 
returned to the Company’ s registrars by 15 May 2015.
Outlook
In summary, this is another very strong financial performance 
by the Group which continues to deliver on its strategy and 
market-leading offering, supported by a strong balance sheet. 
The Board continues to evaluate the potential for further 
value-enhancing acquisitions, joint ventures and partnerships, 
focusing on regulated markets, evaluating these against the 
possibility of a return of capital to shareholders. Playtech has 
a proven ability of generating value through successful 
acquisitions and management is confident that this 
will continue.
While there are anticipated changes in our markets, 
Playtech’ s diversity and position within a global, growing 
industry, gives the Board confidence of the Group’ s prospects 
both in 2015 and beyond.
Alan Jackson 
Chairman
26 February 2015
