 2 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Operating across all regulated areas, Playtech  
is in a prime position to benefit from increasing 
regulation as it develops on an international 
scale. It is the Board’s belief that the Company’s 
ability to provide market-leading products  
and services to both established operators and 
new entrants operating under new regulations 
will over time increase the scale and quality  
of its earnings.
Strategic developments during the year 
included further integration of PTTS, our wholly 
owned services business, the acquisition of 
which introduced the ability to provide full 
turnkey solutions, enhancing joint venture 
opportunities and further increasing Playtech’s 
ability to attract new partners. The acquisitions 
of Mobenga, Ash Gaming and Geneity have 
been fully integrated and have proven to 
positively enhance Playtech’s offering and 
strengthen its position as the best of breed 
technology provider to the global online 
gaming industry.
The Company was pleased to announce  
in February 2013 that its joint venture with 
Gauselmann in Germany was awarded licenses 
by the State of Schleswig-Holstein for the 
provision of casino and sports betting, and 
management is now working with Gauselmann 
to develop an appropriate business plan 
pertinent to the emerging regulatory regime  
in Germany.
Signs from the US are encouraging, with  
the news that the states of New Jersey and 
Nevada are to legalise online gaming and poker 
respectively. As a result, other US states may 
contemplate similar actions, however, such 
developments are in their infancy and there 
remains much work to do to resolve regulatory, 
political and practical considerations. We 
continue to watch developments closely.
Introduction
The year ending 31 December 2012 was  
an exceptional period in the continued 
development of Playtech. The Company 
delivered another impressive financial 
performance and passed a number of 
significant corporate and operational 
milestones. Notably, the Company achieved  
a Premium Listing on London’s Main Market, 
reflecting both the short-term effort needed  
to make the progression and the longer  
term determination to comply with the 
responsibilities associated with a Premium 
Listing. Pleasingly, Playtech was included in  
the FTSE 250 Index in September and has, since 
inclusion, moved up approximately 30 places. 
The move provided greater visibility for the 
Company, improved market liquidity and 
affords wider recognition of Playtech’s strengths 
and consistent strong financial performance. 
Strategic Developments
Playtech is the clear market leader in the 
provision of software and services to the global 
online gaming industry. Its offering includes a 
full product suite, leading-edge management 
system, full integration across all player 
interfaces and a broad range of marketing 
services and techniques that enable licensees  
to maximise the potential of their online  
gaming business.
The period saw growth of software revenues 
derived from regulated markets, including  
Italy, Spain and Denmark, further enhanced  
by organic growth. While the regulatory 
environment remains in a state of flux in  
a small number of geographies, the global 
process of regulating the online gaming 
industry continues to advance. This trend,  
led by national and local governments, is a key 
driver of Playtech’s current and future success. 
Chairman’s Statement
 “Playtech has had another excellent  
year, incorporating some of its most 
significant achievements to date.”
Overview Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3
Governance and Risk Management
Playtech is committed to upholding the highest 
levels of corporate governance. The Company 
was delighted to welcome Andrew Thomas to 
the Board as an independent Non-Executive 
Director, and Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
effective 19 June 2012. Andrew brings with him 
a wealth of experience in the leisure sector and 
valuable insight into the nuances of taxation 
and finance.
As announced at the interim results last year, 
David Mathewson retired as Chief Financial 
Officer and from the Board on 31 December 
2012. I would like to thank David for his efforts 
and counsel while he was a director.
Ron Hoffman, formerly Vice President of Finance 
over the previous eight years, and who has 
played a fundamental role in all of Playtech’s 
recent acquisitions, was appointed to the Board 
as Chief Financial Officer with effect from the 
new financial year. 
The Board has worked to ensure a robust 
governance structure to comply with corporate 
best practice. During 2012, an advanced internal 
audit function was implemented by PwC and 
the Company, and a revised Code of Conduct 
and Ethics policy was adopted.
William Hill Online
In October, the Board of William Hill plc 
commenced the valuation process relating  
to their call option over Playtech’s 29% stake  
in William Hill Online. The process culminated  
in the confirmation that William Hill will exercise 
the option for a consideration of approximately 
£424 million. The transaction is expected  
to complete by the end of April 2013. 
This has generated substantial returns for  
the Company during the lifetime of the joint 
venture. While this brings to a close a highly 
successful and profitable joint venture for 
Playtech, the Company will continue to enjoy  
a close working relationship with William Hill, 
which remains a top-five licensee.
Dividend
The Board has recommended a final dividend  
of 15.4 € cents per share, giving a total 2012 
dividend of 23.2 € cents per share (201 1: 16.5 € 
cents per share), an increase of 41%. This reflects 
the Company’s strong underlying growth in 
earnings, cash generation and the Company’s 
dividend policy of paying out 40% of adjusted 
net profit.
Subject to shareholder approval of the final 
dividend at the Annual General Meeting, to be 
held on 8 May 2013, the dividend will be payable 
on 24 May 2013 to those shareholders on the 
Company’s register as at the record date of 26 
April 2013. The ex-dividend date is 24 April 2013. 
For any shareholders who elect to receive  
their dividends in sterling the conversion 
exchange rate from euros into sterling will  
be set on 26 April 2013 and election forms 
should be returned to the Company’s registrars 
by 3 May 2013.
The Board, with its advisers, is undertaking  
a broad review of the most effective use of  
the expected proceeds from the disposal of 
William Hill Online, once completed, taking into 
consideration feedback from shareholders and 
the Company’s future requirements. The Board 
will, amongst other strategic options, assess the 
potential for further value-enhancing 
acquisitions, joint ventures and partnerships, 
focusing on regulated markets, together  
with the possibility of a return of capital to 
shareholders. Playtech has a proven ability  
of generating value through successful 
acquisitions and management is confident  
that this will continue.
In summary, Playtech has had another excellent 
year, incorporating some of its most significant 
achievements to date. The Company continues 
to capitalise on its clear strategy and strong 
balance sheet. The Board is highly confident of 
the Company’s prospects in 2013 and beyond.
Roger Withers
Chairman
14 March 2013
Listing on the Main Market
“ This is a very exciting 
occasion for Playtech  
and we are delighted  
to be part of the Official 
List. We have experienced 
exceptional growth since 
the Company was founded 
in 1999, and this marks a 
significant milestone in our 
continued development.”
