 OVeRVieW
In a year of strong growth for Playtech, the 
Company increased revenue by 16% to 
€367.2 million and grew adjusted EBITDA 
by 17% to €159.4 million excluding the 
share of profits received from William Hill 
Online, with overall adjusted EBITDA of 
€177.5 million.
During the period, Playtech expanded its 
product offering and lines of business, 
both organically and through acquisitions. 
The Company also secured a number 
of important new licensees and further 
extended its relationships with existing 
licensees. Landmark agreements were 
signed with Ladbrokes to supply a 
full range of software products and to 
enhance its digital business until 2017.
Importantly, mobile revenues more than 
tripled as a result of Playtech’ s investment 
in mobile technology to create a better 
player experience, greater visibility of 
player behaviour as well as increasing 
developmental tools. 
Regul Ated m ARkets
Regulated markets continue to present 
significant potential for revenue growth 
and Playtech is in a prime position to take 
advantage of global market developments, 
such as those in the Netherlands, 
South Africa and Mexico and we remain 
optimistic for future development in 
other markets. 
While Playtech continued to focus 
on increasing its regulated markets 
income, dot.com operators continue to 
be important to the Company’ s growth 
strategy as they provide the cornerstone 
in soon to be regulated markets.
During the year, Playtech has made 
significant progress in regulated and 
soon to be regulated markets including 
the UK, Italy, France, Spain, Denmark, 
Latvia, Estonia, Mexico and Puerto Rico 
amongst others. 
In January 2014, Playtech won an 
exclusive supply agreement with Holland 
Casino as it moves into online gaming. 
Holland Casino is expecting to launch 
Playtech’ s entire gaming product suite 
including casino, poker, bingo, mobile and 
portal once the Dutch market regulates 
in early 2015. In preparation, Playtech 
will deliver a play-for-fun offering, which 
will support Holland Casino’ s efforts to 
establish itself in the online space and build 
an online player base.
Playtech is committed to working closely 
with regulators and the Company has 
been co-operating with the Italian regulator, 
AAMS, in developing a joint programme 
to manage unlicensed operators to either 
withdraw from the Italian market in an 
orderly fashion over the next four months 
or to obtain a local license and migrate 
their players. Playtech’ s commitment 
to such regulated markets may have a 
non-material short-term revenue impact. 
Playtech is the only company in  
the gambling industry that offers  
a fully integrated, multi-channel,  
multi-platform and multi-product 
offering as well as a full range  
of services.
mor Weizer, c hief executive Officer 
❝
❞
Strategic report
Chi EF ExECuti VE’S REViEW
22
Playtech plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Playtech is making good progress 
supporting leading operators including 
SNAI, Sisal and Eurobet, launched 
new operators during the year and is in 
active discussion in respect of further 
significant opportunities.
Management continues to believe that 
Playtech’ s commitment to regulated 
markets and proven track record, positions 
it as the natural choice for operators in 
regulated markets. The expected positive 
regulatory change in various jurisdictions 
creates significant opportunities for 
the Company. 
st RAtegic POsiti Oning
Playtech’ s long-term strategy of organic 
development, joint ventures and targeted 
acquisitions has enabled it to take 
advantage of significant opportunities 
in the global gambling industry. 
As governments see the implementation 
of gambling tax and the sale of regulatory 
licenses as significant revenue potential, 
there is a continued industry move towards 
a greater mix of locally regulated markets. 
Land-based and digital channels continue 
to converge as land-based retail operators 
seek to leverage their brands, offering 
players the same games on both channels 
and a seamless playing experience with 
a single account covering both their retail 
and digital play. 
Playtech is the only company in the 
gambling industry that offers a fully 
integrated, multi-channel, multi-platform 
and multi-product offering as well as 
a full range of services, including a 
turnkey solution. The Company is best 
positioned to become the partner of 
choice for local and international brands 
requiring a comprehensive successful 
gambling operation.
Playtech continues to invest in its market-
leading suite of products, while growing 
the opportunities in sports betting, and the 
Videobet product. Further opportunities 
are being created by investing in new 
and emerging product verticals that will 
become additional building blocks for 
future growth such as social and casual 
gaming, financial betting and virtual 
sports betting. 
Mobile gambling continues to be one of 
the most significant growth drivers of the 
global online gambling industry. Playtech’ s 
comprehensive offering of technologically 
advanced solutions is essential to future 
success. Playtech remains at the forefront 
of mobile technology and is focused on 
maintaining its market leading position. 
The Company is uniquely positioned with 
the most extensive portfolio of mobile 
products covering sports, a large library 
of mobile games, casino and live casino, 
bingo and poker all offered in native iOS, 
Android and HTML5 with a mobile hub 
platform that allows both sports betting 
and gaming within the same application 
creating cross product sales opportunities.
Playtech has continued to enhance the 
player experience including the further 
development of its market-leading IMS 
platform to include personalisation 
capabilities and additional tools for the 
entire player lifecycle from pre-acquisition 
through all player activities. Operators now 
have greater insight into player behaviour 
and more control over their activities.
Successful implementation of Playtech’ s 
strategy has further strengthened its 
market position, and the Company is 
increasingly recognised as the leading 
software and services supplier to the 
online gambling industry, as evidenced 
by Playtech winning the Best iGaming 
Software Provider Award at the 
International Gaming Awards – for the third 
year in a row.
industry awards won in the past year:
23
Playtech plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
s trategic report g overnance f inancial statements Acquisiti Ons 
During the year, Playtech acquired 
PokerStategy.com, the world’ s largest 
poker affiliate business, bolstering the 
iPoker network and the services division. 
Previous acquisitions, including Geneity, 
Mobenga and Ash Gaming are now 
fully integrated and delivering significant 
benefits in terms of revenue, product 
capability, cross-sell opportunities 
and licensee relationships. There are 
significant opportunities for Playtech to 
provide PokerStrategy services to all 
existing licensees to further strengthen 
relationships and to provide the service 
to other potential licensees, which would 
increase the appeal of Playtech’ s offering. 
Given the Company’ s cash resources and 
cash flow, management remains keenly 
focused on securing the right opportunities 
for transformational as well as further 
bolt-on acquisitions and joint ventures 
in regulated markets. Playtech operates 
in a dynamic industry and strongly 
believes it will continue to create additional 
shareholder value through acquisitions. 
l icensees
Playtech aims to provide its licensees 
with market-leading content, features, 
tools and a broad range of services that 
support and enhance their businesses 
allowing them to maximize their return on 
marketing investments. The Company’ s 
focus remains on new licensees in 
regulated markets following prior success 
in signing new agreements and extending 
relationships with existing licensees.
In March, Playtech signed landmark 
agreements with Ladbrokes for the 
provision of all software verticals along 
with a marketing services agreement. 
The Vegas casino tab was launched in 
July, with the Mobenga mobile sports 
platform launched in December, Geneity 
launched in Spain in December and live 
casino was launched in January 2014, in 
line with the phased migration plan.
Paddy Power migrated its live casino to 
Playtech in April, enjoying the benefits of a 
dedicated facility, which has proved highly 
successful with Paddy Power customers.
Other UK operators extended their 
relationships with Playtech, such as Betfair, 
which launched Playtech’ s bingo and 
migrated over to the iPoker network, and 
Sky, which launched mobile bingo on iOS. 
Bet365 added to its product suite by 
launching mobile live casino in September 
and Gala launched a fully customised 
mobile gambling platform.
Betclick Everest launched a popular new 
mobile poker version, Unibet launched 
in France and Playtech launched its live 
casino offering in Spain together with 
Casino Grand Madrid. 
Playtech continues to be extremely 
successful in extending its existing licensee 
relationships to include additional products 
and services. Importantly, the Company 
enjoys a very strong pipeline of potential 
new business as well as the additional 
opportunities from existing licensees 
seeking to extend their relationship to 
include more products and platforms.
Strategic report
Chi EF ExECuti VE’S REViEW CONTINUED
24
Playtech plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Playtech provides 
its licensees with 
market-leading 
branded content.
© MARVEL. PROducts And se RVices
In 2013, Playtech made a record 
level of investment into its product 
offering, extending its capabilities both 
horizontally and vertically through in-
house development as well as through 
the introduction of acquired products and 
partnerships. Investment will continue into 
current and new areas of operations as 
they develop. 
Casino 
Playtech’ s flagship product delivered 
an outstanding performance in 2013, 
with revenues increasing 25% from a 
combination of organic growth, new 
licensees, expansion of the games 
portfolio, and growth from mobile 
and the live dealer offering.
seRVices
Services grew 5% over 2013, boosted 
by the acquisition of PokerStrategy 
whose performance has been in line with 
management expectations. 
Playtech offers unique affiliate marketing 
services and sophisticated CRM 
solutions, combined with advanced player 
management tools, which are of particular 
interest to new market entrants requiring 
a full turnkey solution as well as to existing 
operators wanting to boost their online 
gambling operations.
Experience in 2013 demonstrated that 
various well established operators in 
regulated markets will only join with a 
strategic partner that can provide best of 
breed software and support services that 
can drive their online gambling operation. 
Bingo
Playtech provides the industry’ s leading 
bingo offering and operates the industry’ s 
largest bingo network. Bingo continues 
to perform well, increasing revenue in the 
period by 7% on a constant currency 
basis, driven by new licensees, and the 
launch of a new tablet-specific version. 
The roll out of Playtech’ s fully customised 
mobile bingo offering was a step change in 
bingo strategy as tablets are a commonly 
used device in many bingo halls and 
therefore should also appeal to online 
bingo players.
Playtech’ s bingo brand, VirtueFusion, has 
once again won a number of industry 
awards, including eGaming Review’ s 
Bingo Network of the Year, and Bingo 
Supplier of the year.
Videobet
Videobet enjoyed strong revenue growth 
of 14% in 2013, and its technology was 
deployed in an additional 2,800 terminals, 
further diversifying the licensee base. 
Videobet has expanded into emerging 
markets, such as Mexico and Puerto 
Rico, and these together with additional 
markets currently in test, provide a solid 
pipeline for 2014 and beyond. While given 
the constraints of physical premises, sales 
cycles of machines are longer than online 
and the success of Videobet and the 
increased numbers of terminals deployed 
has attracted the attention of various slot 
machine operators in some key markets 
for the Company.
Governance Financial statements s trategic report
25
Playtech plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
a selection of our licensees:
print
PANTONE 280
PANTONE 151 Sports betting 
 
 
Sports betting is one of the largest 
gambling markets and frequently acts as 
the gateway for players to access other 
gaming experiences. Sports betting is 
usually one of the first products to be 
approved in newly regulated markets. 
Having acquired Geneity in early 2012, 
Playtech launched four sports betting 
licensees in 2013, crystallising some of 
the significant potential for this business. 
Given the expected impetus from the 
World Cup in June 2014 and the current 
sales pipeline, management expect to see 
significant growth from sports betting over 
the short to medium term. 
Playtech’ s sports systems are 
recognised by various well-established 
operators as the most advanced 
and sophisticated systems available. 
The Playtech proposition has unique 
capabilities allowing operators to deploy 
a fully integrated sports system in all 
environments, supporting over-the-counter 
and Self Service Betting T erminal (SSBT) 
operations in land-based premises, 
online sports betting as well as mobile 
betting activities. The ability to deploy an 
advanced, fully-integrated, multi-channel, 
multi-platform sports solution in any 
jurisdiction is a key strategic advantage for 
many operators. This creates significant 
opportunities for Playtech to establish 
itself as the prime strategic technology 
partner as operators seek ways to replace 
legacy systems which in many cases were 
developed internally. 
Poker 
The international poker market remains 
challenging. Playtech is the most 
appealing and largest leading independent 
network, attracting well-established 
operators in core key markets such the 
UK, Italy and France. During the year, 
Playtech signed several new licensees 
including Betfair, which migrated its dot.
com and Spanish business onto the 
iPoker network, and also Ladbrokes which 
migrated onto iPoker and Unibet which 
launched in France. The acquisition of 
PokerStrategy creates new incremental 
opportunities for attracting new licensees 
onto the iPoker network. 
Mobile
During 2013, the growth of mobile 
continued to outperform all other product 
channels, rewarding Playtech’ s significant 
investment in the sector. The mobile hub, 
which combines mobile sports betting 
and mobile gaming products into one 
multi-functional, multi-product offering, has 
now been rolled out to two large licensees 
offering a seamless mobile player journey. 
While Playtech continues to focus on the 
development of mobile platforms, it is also 
committed to providing mobile formats for 
its entire product range and to increase 
significantly the number of games available 
in mobile format. Playtech’ s mobile 
betting product has been adopted by the 
majority of the largest operator licensees. 
Other mobile products including live 
casino, bingo and poker were developed 
with a strong focus on ease of use and 
include a number of exciting features 
available only on mobile devices. 
Playtech tailors its offering providing 
customised smartphone and tablet 
propositions, ensuring that all products are 
fully integrated to the same management 
tools and linked to the relevant bingo, 
poker and casino jackpot pools. 
In 2013, sport was 
the fastest growing 
product vertical.
26
Playtech plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic report
Chi EF ExECuti VE’S REViEW CONTINUED Social and Casual
During the last quarter of 2013, leveraging 
the expertise provided by the team 
of developers at Skywind, Playtech 
soft launched its Wild Spin Casino on 
Facebook. A full public launch is expected 
to be made in the coming months. 
Management believes this is an area of 
future potential and has assembled a team 
with strong track records of development 
to drive this initiative. A capital expenditure 
budget has been agreed for a period of 
investment, which the Company believes, 
will generate significant long-term revenue 
and EBITDA income. 
Similarly casual gaming is complementary 
to social gaming and a growing 
and important market for Playtech. 
The Company intends to make relevant 
capital investment into this market, 
which has been estimated to be as 
large as $30 billion on a global basis. 
The investment in 2014 will generate 
significant long-term shareholder value.
Live
Playtech’ s live dealer offering saw 
revenue growth of 17%, benefitting from 
organic growth and the acquisition of 
new licensees. Playtech invested heavily 
into the product and Live gaming facility, 
providing dedicated services for Paddy 
Power, winner.com, Betfair and Ladbrokes. 
As part of Playtech’ s ongoing investment, 
a mobile solution for the live casino 
was developed and offered as native 
applications and HTML5, ensuring that 
the player experience and broadcasting 
capabilities on mobile devices will remain 
intact. Broadcast was extended to launch 
a Spanish live casino service from Casino 
Gran Madrid in accordance with local rules 
and regulations.
PeOPle
Playtech has continued to invest 
significantly in human resources to 
maintain its position as the leading supplier 
of software and services to the online 
gambling industry by delivering innovative 
high quality products and services to 
its clients. 
Outl OOk
Playtech has made a strong start to 2014, 
with daily average revenues for the first 
seven weeks of 2014 up over 15% on 
Q1 2013 (up over 8% after excluding the 
acquisition of PokerStrategy) and over 4% 
on Q4 2013. 
In summary, while there are anticipated 
regulatory and fiscal developments ahead, 
Playtech’ s position as the leading provider 
of software and services to the global 
gambling industry means we look forward 
with confidence to 2014 and beyond. 
Playtech has reported another excellent 
year, and continues to capitalise on its 
clear strategy and strong balance sheet. 
mor Weizer 
Chief Executive Officer 
20 February 2014
Live dealer services 
are now available 
across all mobile 
channels
27
Playtech plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
g overnance f inancial statements s trategic report
