 PlusNet plc  Annual Report and Accounts, year ended 31 December 2005 PlusNet plc  Annual Report and Accounts, year ended 31 December 2005
5
Lee Strafford
Chief Executive
“		 PlusNet	 has	 once	 again	 enjoyed	 record	 growth	 in	 broadband	 customer	 numbers,	 up	 96%	 to	 176,000,	 and	 in	 operating	 profit	 before	 exceptional	 items,	 up	 69%	 to	 £4.9m.”
Introduction
Our first full year as an independent company has seen PlusNet 
make significant progress. The Group has once again enjoyed 
record growth in broadband customer numbers, up 96%  
to 176,000. The strength and efficiency of our Workplace 
operating system has allowed us to increase our pre-exceptional 
operating profit by 69% to £4.9m from a revenue increase  
of 27%. We increased our standard connection speed to  
2Mb, removed the up-front cost of activation, launched Wireless 
network access services (WiFi) and developed our own leading 
VoIP solution, PlusTalk. We continue to score highly in customer 
satisfaction surveys and enjoy an industry leading churn rate.
We have also continued to invest in the development of 
Workplace and future products to address the opportunities 
offered by communications market convergence.
Market background
Broadband connection speeds continue to increase. BT has 
announced that speeds of 8Mb will be available nationally from 
April 2006. The roll-out of 8Mb services will be pivotal for the 
industry as a whole, giving customers the connection bandwidth 
to use multiple broadband enabled services. Next generation 
wireless routers for the home, which we expect to be available 
from Q3 2006, will eliminate the signal quality issues of the first 
generation and facilitate easier use of VoIP. 
As high speed broadband capacity increases, customers’ 
multiple subscriptions to fixed line voice providers, mobile 
operators and cable or satellite TV services will eventually 
converge towards one subscription relationship via a broadband 
provider. The drive to convergence will result in customers 
reducing their overall spend on internet, entertainment and 
voice services. Delivering high quality broadband connectivity 
and a full range of complementary services at attractive price 
points will be critical to winning and retaining customers.
As faster speeds become prevalent we expect accessing  
of on-demand content by customers to grow dramatically.  
We believe that the sheer volume of available content and the 
huge number of sources of content will lead users to demand  
the freedom to enjoy content of their choice, in preference  
to purchasing access to packaged content propositions. 
The availability of high speed broadband connections and the 
associated adoption of multiple applications and services will 
also accelerate growth in bandwidth utilisation. In the absence 
of efficient systems and network management techniques the 
overall customer experience can be compromised and costs could 
spiral out of control. We believe that managing the cost of the 
network, whilst maintaining the customer experience, will be 
increasingly strategically important in the industry.
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review 6
PlusNet plc  Annual Report and Accounts, year ended 31 December 2005 PlusNet plc  Annual Report and Accounts, year ended 31 December 2005
2005 has seen a significant increase in investment in network 
infrastructure through Local Loop Unbundling (LLU) in response 
to regulatory action by Ofcom. Reductions in BT’s network 
wholesale prices have been limited to encourage investment  
in LLU. A number of providers have announced significant  
capital investment plans to build out LLU capacity across the 
more populous areas of the country. However, when the 
regulatory obligations imposed by Ofcom are met, wholesale 
broadband costs are expected to be normalised across BT and 
alternative network providers, with the supply of alternative 
networks providing downward pricing pressure in the long  
term. Service providers face the challenge of acquiring network 
capacity cost effectively before regulatory restrictions are  
lifted, either by investing themselves or purchasing from 
emerging LLU wholesalers other than BT.
I believe PlusNet is extremely well positioned to meet the 
challenges and exploit the opportunities of the developing 
broadband market. Our low-cost Workplace operating platform 
will give us significant advantages as we move 
towards convergence – advantages that are evident 
from our 2005 performance. In the remainder of my 
statement I will set out the advantages of our low-
cost operating model and the benefits it has brought 
in 2005.    
 
Broadband developments in 2005 
Broadband	 connectivity
During the year we increased our standard connection speed 
to 2Mb, taking advantage of wholesale cost reductions and the 
wider availability of faster broadband services on the BT network 
to further improve our customer appeal. 
Our low-cost operating model has allowed us to offer market 
leading subscription prices on our new connectivity products, 
whilst retaining profitability. In addition we have invested in the 
introduction of the option for new broadband customers to avoid 
the up-front cost of activation and modem by forgiving the cost 
over a five year period. We experienced an immediate positive 
customer response to our new broadband offers, evidenced by 
acceleration in customer growth over the remainder of the year. 
Net customer additions (excluding 16,000 customers acquired 
with Metronet) totalled 23,000 in the first six months compared 
to 47,000 in the second six months of 2005. 
All new customers have been generated by referral; we have not 
invested in high cost, low return advertising.
Workplace continues to deliver a high quality service experience, 
evidenced by strong customer satisfaction ratings and an industry 
leading churn rate.
Wireless	 access
In February 2005 we launched WiFi services, which allow 
customers to make a broadband connection in over 1,600 
hotspots around the country through their PlusNet account. 
Once again, by leveraging our Workplace operating platform  
we are able to offer PlusNet customers WiFi at low cost.  
WiFi services are an important building block towards mobility 
and an essential element of a converged service offering.
 
VoIP	 In June 2005, we launched our VoIP service, PlusTalk, to existing 
PlusNet customers, which gives customers the ability to make 
free phone calls over the internet. In September 2005 we 
introduced the ability for customers to breakout from internet 
calls to traditional landlines and mobiles with four retail packages 
offering market leading pricing. 
Critically this solution has been developed internally and is  
fully integrated into our Workplace platform, giving us a seamless 
deployment capability. 
BT	 Teleworker
BT utilises PlusNet’s Workplace platform within its Teleworker 
product, to deliver a remote broadband access solution for 
its major corporate customers. At 31 December 2005 the 
Teleworker product had been adopted by over 50 of BT’s 
blue-chip corporate customers and we have experienced an 
encouraging growth in the number of end users on the platform 
over the year (these are not included in our published broadband 
customer numbers). We are working with BT to extend the 
appeal of the Teleworker product. 
“	Our	 Workplace	 operating	 system	 continues	 to	 deliver	 a	 high	 quality	 service	 experience,	 evidenced	 by	 strong	 customer	 satisfaction	 ratings	 and	 an	 industry	 leading	 churn	 rate.”
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued PlusNet plc  Annual Report and Accounts, year ended 31 December 2005 PlusNet plc  Annual Report and Accounts, year ended 31 December 2005
7
Network management
In 2005, increasing speeds and wider accessing of content  
have dictated that service providers have had to manage  
network traffic closely to maintain network efficiency, or bear 
the cost of excessive network capacity. We have exploited 
industry-leading network management techniques through 
Workplace to control and optimise data traffic over the internet. 
Our network management expertise will be increasingly 
important to optimise performance as broadband connectivity 
speeds increase further in 2006 and beyond. This expertise 
will allow us to assure service quality for customers across 
all traffic types, whether they are downloading content, 
using a VoIP service, gaming or simply browsing the internet 
and accessing email. The effectiveness of our network 
management techniques is demonstrated by the increase in 
our broadband margin from 23% in 2004 to 29% in 2005. 
Whilst BT remains PlusNet’s primary network partner, PlusNet 
is exploring other network wholesale opportunities including 
those sourced from Easynet and Tiscali, both of which are 
expected to develop LLU significantly in 2006. We believe that 
sourcing wholesale LLU to complement the supply from BT is 
the right way for PlusNet to take advantage of the short term 
margin advantage available from LLU, without incurring the cost 
and time investment of building our own infrastructure. This is 
consistent with PlusNet’s stated strategy of leveraging third-party 
networks efficiently.
Growth and convergence strategy
Historically, Workplace has driven competitive advantage 
through lower back office costs and better management 
of wholesale networks. We will continue to develop 
the automation of network management functionality 
within Workplace to maintain our lead in this area. 
Our early trials with BT’s 8Mb service have been successful 
and we are also trialling 8Mb services sourced from Tiscali and 
Easynet. I expect the availability of higher connection speeds  
to fuel customer growth in 2006.
Alongside the continued evolution of our broadband connectivity 
products, we are focusing on the enhancement of PlusTalk,  
our VoIP product. We intend to add email and instant messaging 
to VoIP, thus enveloping all of our customers’ communication 
requirements into a single easy-to-use resource. In 2006 we plan 
to offer bundled connectivity and voice packages, encompassing 
our VoIP service. Further development of our VoIP offering  
is essential within our strategy, as we see it representing  
a key element of a converged product set. 
Whenever possible, new products and services will be developed 
by our in-house development teams using our low cost 
production methodologies and open source tools to eliminate 
third-party licence costs. To complement our own products and 
services, we will aggregate high quality third party products and 
services, where they present incremental profit opportunities.  
We believe that PlusNet is well positioned to succeed in the new 
converged world, thanks to our unique Workplace operating 
model, which delivers significant competitive advantage, 
allowing us to offer new products and services at highly 
competitive prices, whilst maintaining profitability. Critically, 
Workplace enables:
a web-based transactional relationship with our customers, 
providing the most effective mechanism of delivering 
maximum choice of new products and services;
a web-based customer support system which puts the 
customer in control, driving an excellent customer service 
experience;
low-cost of operation allowing us to offer new products 
and services at highly competitive prices, whilst maintaining 
profitability;
cost effective aggregation of third party networks giving 
flexibility in a converging communications world, and 
minimising capital expenditure requirements;  
comprehensive automated network traffic management 
allowing us to assure quality of service to our customers,  
while optimising our network costs; and
the operation of multiple brands providing a platform for 
consolidation and enabling partners to leverage the power  
of Workplace.
Our strategy continues to be to offer a full range of converged 
communications products and services as the UK’s best value 
internet service provider.
Workplace gives us an industry leading platform to manage the 
infrastructure in a converged world and PlusTalk will allow us to 
service all of the communication needs of our customers. 
•
•
•
•
•
•
“	 Workplace	 gives	 us	 an	 industry	 leading	 platform	 to	 manage	 the	 infrastructure	 in	 a	 converged	 world	 and	 PlusTalk	 will	 allow	 us	 to	 service	 all	 of	 the	 communication	 needs	 	 of	 our	 customers.” 8
PlusNet plc  Annual Report and Accounts, year ended 31 December 2005 PlusNet plc  Annual Report and Accounts, year ended 31 December 2005
Acquisition of Metronet 
On 28 November 2005, we completed the acquisition of 
Parbin Limited, which trades as Metronet, for a consideration 
of £1.7m. At completion Metronet had approximately 16,000 
broadband customers. The integration of Metronet was 
completed in February, less than three months after the 
acquisition. This involved transfer of customer support to 
Sheffield, migration of Metronet’s customers onto PlusNet’s 
network and the transfer of Metronet’s operations onto our 
Workplace platform. Critically, the network migration brings 
significant efficiencies from network traffic management. The 
integration has been achieved with negligible customer impact. 
In order to maintain the value of the Metronet brand, it was 
critical that customers experienced no negative changes in 
Metronet’s broadband connectivity services during integration, 
and that we could demonstrate that PlusNet had a clear plan to 
add value to the customer experience through enhanced service 
features and additional products, such as higher broadband 
speeds, VoIP and WiFi. The integration has been achieved with 
minimal disruption to customer service, evidenced by continuing 
growth in customer numbers from completion to the year end. 
Metronet proves our ability to integrate a business quickly and 
effectively. 
We continue to explore selective, earnings-enhancing 
acquisitions to augment our excellent rates of organic growth, 
but remain committed to only consider opportunities that will 
add value and not dilute PlusNet’s profitability.
People
In April 2005 Danny Sullivan joined the management team  
as Chief Operating Officer. Danny has over seven years' 
experience at BT, and his contribution has already proved 
invaluable. In addition, throughout the year we have 
strengthened our management team with a number of 
appointments, to ensure that we have the best structure  
in place to take advantage of current market opportunities. 
Our management team combines experience from across the 
industry with technical experts instrumental in the development 
of Workplace.
I would like to echo the comments of Kevin Adams: our 
employees continue to make a huge contribution to the 
development of our business model, which I greatly appreciate. 
In addition, I would also like to acknowledge the contribution 
of our Non-executive Directors, who have given us the benefit 
of their significant experience, not just in the formal governance 
role, but also by fully engaging in such a dynamic, fast moving 
business and actively challenging and contributing to our 
strategic progression. 
Outlook for 2006
We expect BT’s roll-out of 8Mb and the availability of higher 
connection speeds from other networks to fuel PlusNet’s 
customer growth in 2006. We expect the quality and value  
of our broadband products to drive continuing gains in market 
share. We believe our low-cost Workplace platform will position 
PlusNet to be a major beneficiary of the convergence revolution. 
In addition, we believe that consolidation in the broadband space 
will continue and that Workplace is an ideal platform upon which 
to participate in this consolidation phase. 
At PlusNet, we are very excited to be involved in such a fast 
moving business in a fast moving space and being afforded  
the opportunity to demonstrate through our Workplace platform 
the ability to deliver on the convergence opportunity better than 
our competitors. 
Lee Strafford
Chief Executive
22 February 2006
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
