 Operational overview
I am delighted with the progress PlusNet has made in 2004. 
The clearest measures of our progress are displayed in customer
numbers and operating profit before exceptional item where we
have enjoyed record growth. However, less apparent but more
important progress has been made in the further development of
PlusNet to take advantage of the future opportunities and meet
the challenges presented by the Broadband market. The next few
years will see the emergence of new Broadband enabled
products and services, with appeal, availability and pricing to
drive significant demand in the residential and business markets.
PlusNet intends to be a leader in delivering a broad choice of
these new products and services to market. I will focus my review
on the development of our business strategy to win in the rapidly
changing Broadband world.
Narrowband and Broadband Connectivity
Developments in 2004
2004 has seen huge growth in the number of Broadband
connections in the UK surpassing most analysts’ original
estimates of take-up by a significant margin.
PlusNet’s Broadband customer numbers increased to 89,825 at
31 December 2004, an increase of 44,461 in the year compared
to an increase of 30,847 in the year ended 31 December 2003.
Approximately 70% of our new broadband customers were new
PlusNet customers.
Broadband connectivity and services now make up 76% of our
turnover at £21.2m up from £9.9m in 2003.
In line with our expectations Narrowband revenues have declined
from £6.7m in 2003 to £5.6m in 2004, despite an increase in
Narrowband customer numbers from 108,132 to 113,213. This
reflects a reduction in average revenue per Narrowband user, as
heavier Narrowband users move more quickly to Broadband.
Chief Executive’ s Strategic Review 4
“Important progress has
been made in the further
development of PlusNet
to take advantage of the
future opportunities and
meet the challenges
presented by the
Broadband market”
PlusNet plc
Annual report and accounts, year ended 31 December 2004
Lee Strafford
Chief Executive While market commentators have commonly referred to 
our market in negative terms as being subject to significant
‘downward pricing pressure’, we have improved our Broadband
margins from 19% in 2003 to 23% in 2004 and maintained very
competitive pricing. We have achieved this principally by
leveraging our highly automated and customer responsive
operating model. In addition, we have passed on a proportion of
savings from each change in network wholesale costs over the
years to fuel competitive pricing, whilst retaining some of the
benefit to strengthen our business platform and maintain our
efficient, high quality customer service.
PlusNet’s Broadband connectivity products
We have continued to develop our Broadband connectivity
product range to offer our customers a broad choice of high
quality products and services at highly competitive prices.
PlusNet’s product range includes Broadband connectivity with
speed and usage options, as well as differentiated products for
residential and business users. We currently offer Fixed cost 
and Pay as you go connectivity products which cater for the
requirements of different segments of our customer base.
Fixed cost
PlusNet’s fixed cost products allow business and residential
customers to pay a fixed subscription for Broadband
connectivity with no further variable payments for usage.
These products are targeted at customers who demand a
high quality service and want the certainty of a fixed cost
regardless of their usage.
Pay as you go
Pay as you go products allow business and residential
customers to select and pay for their Broadband 
connectivity according to the amount of information
downloaded each month. These products offer customers 
the lowest subscription entry point to Broadband
connectivity, and appeal particularly to first-time, light
Broadband users. 
New Broadband connections have continued to dominate
sign-ups in 2004 and, consequently, our Pay as you go
products have been hugely popular, accounting for
approximately half of total Broadband sign-ups since their
launch in June. PlusNet’s revenues from Pay as you go
Broadband products vary directly with capacity utilisation,
thus driving a direct relationship between cost of sales and
income, which allows PlusNet to optimise network utilisation
and, hence, profitability.
We will continually review our range of product offerings 
for business and residential customers and will introduce new
connectivity options as and when network developments at the
wholesale level create opportunities and if we believe they would
have appeal to the prospective PlusNet customer and are
commercially viable.
Monthly subscription levels across all of our product ranges 
are highly competitive compared with other significant ISPs.
Moreover, our efficient operating model and optimal network
utilisation allow PlusNet to drive attractive gross profits across 
the whole product range.
Migrations
While the majority of new Broadband customers in 2004 are
experiencing Broadband for the first time, increasing levels of
migrations of Broadband customers from other ISPs have been 
an important new feature. As the population of experienced
internet users expands, more users become discerning and seek
value and quality in their internet connection service. Our
strategy of offering high quality service and low subscription
prices makes PlusNet an attractive proposition for Broadband
users dissatisfied with their current ISP , or simply seeking a better
deal. Changes in the migration process and associated costs by
BT in June 2004 have been catalysts for growth in migrations. 
The process is now automated and the cost was reduced from
£50 ex VAT to £11 ex VAT per user. Since June 2004 PlusNet has
not charged new customers for inbound migrations. Migrations
in 2004 have increased more than seven-fold from 2003.
5
PlusNet plc
Annual report and accounts, year ended 31 December 2004
“Our strategy of offering high quality service
and low subscription prices makes PlusNet an
attractive proposition for Broadband users
dissatisfied with their current ISP , or simply
seeking a better deal” Broadband connectivity growth in 2005
The outlook for growth in Broadband connectivity revenues 
is very positive. I expect continued growth in new Broadband
connections in 2005. I also expect existing Broadband users to
increasingly demand improvements in their services, as they
experience the benefits of faster speeds and seek better value.
Our philosophy of offering a broad choice of products at highly
competitive prices will drive further migrations to PlusNet.
Supplying Broadband connectivity is just the first leg of our
customer journey. Broadband is the gateway to a whole range of
new products and services, which will become available to our
residential and business customers; these new services will form
the next leg of our customer journey and the next phase in
PlusNet’s development.
Broadband market developments
Two trends in the Broadband world point the way for the next
phase in PlusNet’s development: communications convergence
and the emergence of new Broadband enabled products and
services.
Communications convergence
True communications convergence will occur when a user is 
able to access diverse Broadband enabled services whether at
home, at work or on the move. After many years of hype,
technical advances and increased co-operation between
communications businesses will mean true convergence will
become reality for Broadband users in the next few years.
Chief Executive’ s Strategic Review
6
PlusNet plc
Annual report and accounts, year ended 31 December 2004
Communications convergence
Broadband 
ISP
Voice and messaging
Voice, SMS, VoFi etc VoIP , Instant Messaging etc
Basic Web, ringtones, MP3, 
Video Clips, Basic Animation etc Web, Music, Video, Animation etc
Fixed ADSL  SDSL 3G  Wi-Fi  WiMAX Mobile
Content A number of developments highlight the inexorable move
towards converged communications in the UK.
Advances in Broadband networks Delivery of multiple services
through a Broadband gateway will require increases in
Broadband speeds, improved network capabilities and 
co-operation between fixed line and mobile networks. 
These improvements will start to be delivered during 2005.
4MB and 8MB services will become more widely 
available in the UK in 2005. On our current 2MB 
service simultaneous access to browsing email and 
VoIP is feasible. At 4MB, video streaming will become 
practicable simultaneously with these other services.
BT announced in May 2004 that it was joining forces with
Vodafone to offer the first fully converged fixed-mobile
communications service in the world.
BT set out specific proposals for its 21st Century Network
last year, which is expected to facilitate innovative new
services offering greater control and personalisation, ease
of migration between services as well as continuity for
existing PSTN services.
New devices We have already seen the introduction of new
devices which begin to offer converged services, such as the
Blackberry 7100 series handset, Creative’s Zen portable media
player and Motorola’s iTunes enabled mobile phone. We expect
more new devices to be introduced which will offer mobile or
fixed network access. BT’s Bluephone, due to be launched in the
UK in 2005, promises ordinary mobile phone functionality when
away from the home or office. When in range of the user's fixed
terminal, calls can be made and received via a Broadband link.
Communications convergence will enable a whole range of new
services to be delivered via a user’s Broadband connection.
Emergence of Broadband enabled products and services
It is now possible to use a Broadband connection not only to
access the internet but also to transfer data, access software
applications, receive television and radio stations, buy and
download songs and videos, or make voice calls. However, 
few of these new products and services are offered through
mainstream retail channels, leaving them inaccessible to all but
the highly technical user or those who can afford to purchase a
bespoke solution.
The environment for the commercial launch of new Broadband
services through mainstream retail channels is rapidly becoming
more favourable. Communications convergence, network
improvements and increased Broadband speeds will enable
delivery of high quality new services, and the mass take-up of
Broadband in the UK will fuel demand and the economies of
scale to enable affordable pricing.
Seizing new product and service opportunities
I expect the Broadband ISP with the ability to aggregate a broad
range of services to play a central role in the new converged
communications world. We believe the true Broadband services
business must be able to offer its chosen market a single source
relationship for all Broadband enabled products and services.
PlusNet plans to be a true Broadband services business offering 
its residential and business customers a wide choice of fixed and
mobile Broadband connectivity options, value added services,
applications and content.
I believe PlusNet is well positioned to succeed in the new
converged communications world.
Our web-based sales and customer support methodology
provides the most effective mechanism of delivering maximum
choice of new products and services;
Our web-based customer support system puts the customer 
in control, driving an excellent customer service experience;
Our low-cost operating system will allow us to offer new
products and services at highly competitive prices, whilst
maintaining profitability;
Our relationship with BT gives us insight into market
developments and access to new products;
Our customer base of more experienced internet users and 
our reputation for excellent customer service and quality in 
the Broadband community gives us access to a ready market 
for new products and services; and
Aggregation of third party networks will give us flexibility in a
converging communications world, and minimise capital
expenditure requirements.
7
PlusNet plc
Annual report and accounts, year ended 31 December 2004 PlusNet plans to be its customers’ first choice for Broadband-
enabled products and services. Consistent with our business
strategy, our new Broadband connectivity and associated products
and services will aim to deliver high quality at very competitive prices.
We will continually evaluate new and complementary Broadband
enabled products and services, which we will launch as soon as
they meet our customers’ requirements and are commercially
viable. We are currently evaluating VoIP , WiFi, Mobile and content
services which we plan to launch in 2005 as long as they meet
these criteria.
BT relationship
BT Retail and PlusNet have enjoyed a strong working relationship
in recent years, which has already produced the Teleworker
product. The relationship is based upon our businesses’
complementary markets and technological capabilities. BT Retail
recognises our unique ability to automate customer service,
which forms the back-bone of the Teleworker product, and our
access to more experienced internet users, who are likely to be
early-adopters of new products and services. We recognise the
huge influence BT will have in the development of the Broadband
market, including Project Bluephone and the 21st Century
network discussed above.
BT Retail and PlusNet have agreed to work together and share
technical knowledge on the development and marketing of each
other’s proposed new Broadband products and services including
fixed access, wireless access, mobile services and VoIP . By working
with BT Retail on proposed new Broadband products and
services, PlusNet is well positioned to become the preferred
reseller for early launch of relevant new products and services.
PlusNet is BT Retail’s preferred partner for projects demanding
automated customer relationship management, which is
fundamental to Teleworker. Teleworker is a Broadband access
solution for organisations to enable their employees to work
remotely and allow the organisation to maintain the
management of their employees' internet connection. The
Teleworker product, which was launched by BT in August 2003,
has been adopted by over 30 of BT’s blue-chip corporate
customers. BT intends to accelerate growth in the number of
Teleworker end-users in 2005.
Our relationship with BT underlines PlusNet’s technical expertise
and positions PlusNet as an integral part of BT Retail’s strategy
going forward. I expect the strategic relationship with BT Retail 
to bring new product and service opportunities to PlusNet as well
as valuable insight into infrastructure developments. 
Chief Executive’ s Strategic Review
8
“I expect the strategic relationship 
with BT Retail to bring future product 
and service opportunities to PlusNet”
PlusNet plc
Annual report and accounts, year ended 31 December 2004 Outlook for 2005
2004 was an exciting year for PlusNet and the Broadband market
as a whole. Subscription prices were reduced to levels that made
Broadband connectivity affordable across residential and business
markets. Broadband internet connectivity achieved huge market
penetration, extending the user base to levels which will facilitate
the launch of new products – applications which to date have
been surrounded by hype rather than practical features.
We plan to launch new connectivity products in 2005, which 
will drive continued rapid growth in our Broadband customer
numbers.
Users will start to enjoy the fuller capabilities of Broadband, 
as new products and services are brought to market. We will
launch new products and services in 2005 complementing our
connectivity services, which will extend PlusNet’s reputation as a
quality Broadband services provider. We do not expect significant
financial return from new services in 2005; our financial growth
will be driven by continued expansion in Broadband customer
numbers. Our investment in new services will be rewarded by
financial return in future years.
We will continue to explore acquisitions that would add
significant value to the PlusNet business in 2005. A combination
of an increased customer base and PlusNet’s low cost model, will
allow us to derive substantial benefits from an acquired business.
However, we will only pursue an acquisition if it brings a brand
and customer base that will generate long term growth. As we
intend to continue to utilise any acquired brand, it is critical that
the brand is strong enough to sustain growth. We will also only
pursue an acquisition if we are confident that it will enhance
shareholder value and not dilute PlusNet’s profitability. We will 
be selective.
I am looking forward to the challenges of the next year, 
which will present us with huge opportunities as Broadband
technologies become more and more central to the lives of 
our customers.
Lee Strafford
Chief Executive
9
PlusNet plc
Annual report and accounts, year ended 31 December 2004
“PlusNet plans to be its customers’ first choice 
for Broadband-enabled products and services.
Consistent with our business strategy, our new
Broadband connectivity and associated products
and services will deliver high quality at very
competitive prices”
