 4
PlusNet plc  Annual Report and Accounts, year ended 31 December 2005 PlusNet plc  Annual Report and Accounts, year ended 31 December 2005
Kevin Adams
Chairman
“	 PlusNet's	 low-cost	 operating	 platform	 gives	 us	 a	 real	 edge	 in	 seizing	 the	 convergence	 opportunity.”
Introduction
PlusNet is the UK’s best value internet service provider. Its unique, 
highly automated operating system, Workplace, enables it to offer 
excellent broadband services at the lowest prices. 
 
Year in review
I am delighted to present PlusNet’s results for the year ended  
31 December 2005. PlusNet has enjoyed continued strong 
growth in sales, broadband subscribers and profitability. Turnover 
increased by 27% to £35.2m, operating profit before exceptional 
item increased by 69% to £4.9m and earnings per share before 
exceptional costs increased by 78% to 13.5p. We ended 2005  
with 176,000 broadband customers.
 
In April 2005, we increased the appeal of our broadband 
connectivity products by standardising connection speeds at  
2Mb and removing the up-front cost of activation and modems  
for new broadband customers. These changes heralded an 
immediate increase in new customer acquisitions.
In November 2005, we acquired Metronet for a consideration 
of £1.7m, adding 16,000 broadband customers to the PlusNet 
business. In line with our acquisition strategy, the purchase of 
Metronet is expected to be earnings enhancing in 2006.
The convergence of communications services around broadband 
presents many opportunities, but also many challenges for 
businesses in the communications industry. Customers will 
demand increasing value for money from their communications 
providers – total consumer spend on telecommunications, internet 
and entertainment services will reduce. To succeed, the service 
provider will need to provide access to a full range of high quality 
communications and entertainment services at excellent price 
points. I believe PlusNet’s low-cost operating platform gives us  
Chairman’s Statement
a real edge in seizing the convergence opportunity. In keeping  
with our strategy to remain at the forefront of convergence,  
during 2005 we have continued to offer market leading 
broadband connectivity products and launched VoIP and  
Wireless network access (WiFi) services. 
We are gaining market share from our competitors, due to our 
market leading product suite, superior broadband offering and 
highly competitive pricing. 
Board
I am pleased to report that Neil Comer took on the role of Finance 
Director following the departure of Ashok Makanji in November 
2005. Neil moved across from his position of Commercial Director, 
where he played a major role in the development of the business. 
Dividend policy
PlusNet will apply its cash resource to fund customer growth, 
capital expenditure, tax obligations and corporate acquisitions 
when appropriate opportunities arise. No dividends have therefore 
been recommended.
Summary
I am delighted with the progress we have made in 2005, and  
on behalf of the Board I would like to thank all our employees  
for their enormous contribution, hard work and support during 
our first full year as a listed Company. 
Kevin Adams
Chairman
22 February 2006
