 Page 2
Chairman’s Statement
Chairman Richard Fildes
The results for the group for the year ending 31 May 2008
reflect the difficult conditions prevailing in the UK property
market. Profits before tax on group companies, joint ventures
and associate company income were £2.3m (2007: £8.9m),
derived from turnover of £115.3m (2007: £116.6m). After
accounting for taxation charges in joint ventures of £0.5m, the
reported IFRS group profit before taxation is £1.8m 
(2007: £9.1m).
A final dividend of 3.0p is proposed which, combined with the
interim dividend of 3.0p (2007: 3.0p), will total 6.0p 
(2007: 9.25p) for the full year. The board regrets the need to
propose a reduced final dividend which it feels is appropriate
in the current general and specific economic circumstances. 
“Dramatic recent events in financial markets make
commenting on the group’s current prospects unusually
perilous”. This concern, expressed in last year’s Chairman’s
Statement, unfortunately has proved to be fully justified by the
wholesale reassessment of property values and prospects
which have occurred since last year’s annual report. 
This has been brought about by the abrupt change in both
the cost and availability of money. For many years, readily
available funding for property development and investment
has stimulated demand. Prices responded with investment
yields falling to well below the cost of money, encouraged by
the prospect of even higher prices. Money is the raw material
of the property industry and when its supply is savagely
curtailed, as is evident from the changed conditions in the
credit markets, demand from investors evaporates. Prices
begin to fall and confidence is destroyed. 
Thus we have seen in the last twelve months a substantial 
re-rating of the value of both commercial and residential
property. Such a marked adjustment naturally affects not only
the price of built stock but also development appraisal and
land values. To date stability has not yet returned with
investment yields still drifting outwards and the viability of all
forms of development remaining difficult to assess. 
In these troubled circumstances, Pochin’s has performed
creditably during the year. The Property division has again
New Craft Centre, Ruthin
  Page 3
Chairman’s Statement
made the main contribution before making necessary
provisions in the prevailing market conditions. The profitable
disposal of land for a supermarket at Ellesmere, Shropshire,
was a highlight, as was the exchange of contracts for the
£12m sale by Manchester Technopark Limited, our joint
venture with Manchester Science Park Limited, of Reynolds
House. Fortunately, the division’s investment portfolio is well
let with its £3.8m annual rental income so far proving resilient.
A reorganisation of the Contracting division was carried out
during the year. Taking the cost of this into account, its
performance was acceptable. Turnover was maintained, and
the re-invigorated management team is now winning valuable
new business despite the increasingly competitive
environment for contracting.
During the second half of the year the Construction Services
division was affected by weakening demand and sharply
increasing fuel prices. Since the year end there has been no
improvement in turnover with business in the Midlands and
the North showing the greatest decline. Steadier fuel prices
and sustained public sector activity are helping to alleviate this
situation.
The Residential division had an extremely difficult year, and it
is not possible to report any improvement since the year end.
Fortunately the modest size of the operation, and a realistic
approach to speculative building, will mean that the
continuing losses of the division are containable. 
Naturally, the group’s future prospects depend on more stable
conditions in financial markets. In addition, much rests on the
outcome of the struggle between the competing forces of
commodity price inflation and weakening global and domestic
demand, and the reaction of central bankers to it. The current
year requires careful cost control and due regard for the
importance of maintained liquidity. Fortunately the group
enjoys close relations with its bankers, notably The Royal
Bank of Scotland, who have demonstrated their strong
support with the renewal and extension of facilities sufficient
to sustain the group’s various activities during the current year
and beyond. The group’s prudent approach to speculative
development, and its strong balance sheet, will prove
increasingly important until improved market conditions begin
to be re-established. 
In addition to the unfortunate and painful damage it has
inflicted on shareholders, the sharp deterioration in all the
group’s markets has tested the morale and resilience of its
management and staff. To date such tests have been met
with great resolve, and I would take this opportunity to thank
and congratulate all those involved. I would also like to record
my thanks to Ross Murray and Richard Buck who have left
the board after serving the group for thirty years and twenty
years respectively. 
Pochin’s is a fine company with a well deserved reputation
among its clients, tenants, suppliers and employees. This will
sustain it through the current adverse circumstances enabling
it to benefit from the many opportunities which diligent and
hard work will identify as confidence and credit gradually
return to the property market.
Richard Fildes
22 September 2008 
Walker House, Liverpool
