 Page 4
Chief Executive’s Report
Chief Executive David Shaw
Overview
The Pochin Group operates in the construction and property
sectors through four complementary, but autonomous,
trading divisions:
• Property investment and development
• Contracting
• Construction Services
• Residential development
Our operations are primarily in the North West region and
have been affected this year by a particularly tough property
market, which has resulted in an inability to complete a
number of planned property disposals and has largely
curtailed residential sales activity. 
Contracting operations have remained largely unaffected to
date but the division has been restructured during the year
and management has been reorganised so that it is better
placed to operate, should it be affected by worsening market
conditions. 
Construction Services, through Pochin Concrete Pumping,
operates throughout the UK and has faced different
challenges, most notably the increasing cost of fuel, and
these have eroded margins in the second half.     
Residential sales suffered a severe downturn, with only 39
completions added to the 21 sales brought forward from the
previous year. 
Although the group has generated operating profits in the
second half of the year, a prudent and cautious approach has
been taken in the current climate and the values of
landholdings and investments in the commercial and
residential divisions have been reassessed and, where
appropriate, written down to reflect the general downturn in
the sector.   
Reported group profits before tax on company, subsidiaries,
joint ventures and associates, are therefore only slightly ahead
of those reported at the half year. Heald Green
Headlines
• Turnover maintained at £115m
• Profits at £2.3m after provisions of £7.7m against
investments
• Property profits of £2.0m after provisions
• Joint venture contribution at £2.8m
• Contracting profits at £0.8m before reorganisation costs
• Forward orders for contracting of £55m
• Construction Services result maintained at £0.3m
• Residential developer losses increased by write downs of
land values
• Group banking facilities increased to provide liquidity
  Page 5
Chief Executive’s Report
Emerald Park, Crewe
  Page 6
Chief Executive’s Report
Property investment and development 
The year has seen a general market adjustment to property
values, which has impacted on the assets and trading
operations of the division. Investment values have fallen and
development activity has suffered further due to the effects of
the credit crunch. A prudent and cautious approach has been
taken and, where appropriate, the values of commercial
landholdings and property investments have been written
down to reflect the general downturn in the sector.   
Although activity is reduced and property disposals have been
extremely difficult to achieve, two significant profitable
transactions have been completed in the year. 
At Ellesmere, Shropshire, 3 acres of land were sold to Tesco
Stores Limited, following completion of a new road and
associated infrastructure works. The downturn in the housing
market has, however, deferred the planned sale of a further 17
acres of land with residential planning permission. The
remainder of the land on this development has the benefit of
planning permission for health and leisure uses and disposals
of these parcels are being pursued.  
The group’s interest in remaining industrial units at Valley
Court and office units at Verity Court, both recent
developments on our Midpoint 18 Business Park in
Middlewich, has been sold to Lincoln House Properties
Limited.
Undeveloped land at Midpoint 18 now has the benefit of
outline planning consent for employment use, but market
conditions and infrastructure issues remain as significant
hurdles to its development. 
In Crewe, Emperor Court, an office development of circa
22,000 sq.ft., is reaching completion and is located alongside
the Ramada Hotel site, sold last year.
The benefit of rent reviews, particularly on investment property
at Ormskirk, has created additional value, which has helped
to partly counter the effects of write downs in respect of
general market adjustments. The group’s portfolio of
investment property currently has occupation levels (by area)
of circa 93%.
Demand for space at Keele Science and Business Park also
remains strong, again resulting in high levels of occupation.
Joint Ventures
Despite the generally challenging climate, Manchester
Technopark Limited has successfully exchanged contracts for
the disposal of Reynolds House for £12m and our share of the
resulting surplus has contributed significantly to this year’s
results.  
We have continued to work on our joint projects in Liverpool,
Manchester and North Wales in conjunction with UK Land &
Property Limited. 
At Exchange Flags, in the centre of Liverpool’s financial
district, the £15m refurbishment of Walker House, designed
to create 220,000 sq.ft. of quality office space, is currently
being carried out by our Contracting division. Fit out works for
the anchor tenant, the Ministry of Defence, are due to
commence in October of this year. Meanwhile, further lettings
have been secured at Horton House, where prime tenants
such as Brabners, Knight Frank and Deloittes have increased
occupied space to circa 80%.
Wolseley Distribution Centre, Chorley
  Page 7
Chief Executive’s Report
At Harwarden Business Park in North Wales, the 25,000 
sq.ft. unit developed last year has been let and a further
scheme of small business units, with a total area of 40,000
sq.ft., is now under way. At Heald Green near Manchester
Airport, the first phase of the office park is nearing completion
amounting to some 45,000 sq.ft. of quality office space in
small business units.
Our joint venture with Castlewood Developments Limited in
Birkenhead continues. Following the completion of a revised
development agreement with Wirral Borough Council to
deliver a 95,000 sq.ft. foodstore in the town centre, the joint
venture has secured an Agreement to Lease with ASDA
Stores Limited. Site enabling works continue in parallel with
the CPO process, which is required to complete site
assembly.  
The Midpoint Partnership, in which we have a 25% share,
continues to market the completed Unit 75, a substantial
distribution facility on Midpoint 18 Business Park, Middlewich.  
The Trinity Court Development Limited apartment scheme in
Holyhead on Anglesey, in which we also have a 25% share,
has seen a number of sales in the year, with just 7 units and
some ground floor retail space remaining.
Contracting
Turnover, including work on development projects for our
property division, has been maintained at £85m 
(2007: £85m), despite several embryonic projects being
cancelled by clients after successful tenders had been made.
A strong performance in the second half resulted in a
profitable outcome for the year as a whole, before accounting
for reorganisation costs.  
Following an independent business review in Spring 2008, a
new divisional managing director was appointed to oversee
the reorganisation of the division. The divisional board has
been restructured and a review of strategy is under way.
Operational and support management teams have also been
reorganised in order to focus on the key issues identified in
the review process, including further improvements to bid
management processes and an expansion of the business
development resource.  
A number of key projects were delivered in the year including
the Environmental Science building for Bangor University,
which received the LABC (Wales) award for Best Sustainable
Development 2008 and has been nominated to go forward to
HQ Chester Page 8
Chief Executive’s Report
Emperor Court, Crewe
  Page 9
Chief Executive’s Report
The following illustrates the variety of our contracting projects during the year:
Commercial/Manufacturing
Morson Group Plc
Construction of 5 storey office development
(86,017 sq.ft.), Centenary Way, Salford.
DSV Road Ltd
15,850 sq.ft. extension to existing industrial unit/transport
warehouse with associated external works, Greeba Road,
Wythenshawe.
Easter Developments (Haydock) Ltd – (R)
Construction of 6 industrial units with fully fitted office
accommodation and secure external areas (76,000 sq.ft.),
Haydock.
Helios (Industrial Developments) Ltd
Construction of 8 speculative industrial units with ground
floor core area and first floor offices (224,000 sq.ft.),
Buckshaw Link, Chorley.
Hawarden Business Park Ltd – (R)
Construction of 2 industrial units with associated office
and welfare areas, Plots 3 & 4, Hawarden Business Park.
Pochin (Developments) Ltd – (R)
Construction of 3 storey office development (21,000
sq.ft.), Emperor Court, Crewe.
Refurbishment of existing building to form 3 retail units
(6,500 sq.ft.), Longton, Staffordshire.
Patrick Properties Ltd – (R)
Construction of 3 storey office development comprising 2
units of 20,000 and 30,000 sq. ft. including external car
parking, substation and back up generators, Emerald
Park, Crewe.
UKLP Developments Ltd – (R)
Construction of 7 speculative 2 storey office buildings
with associated external works (89,000 sq.ft.), Heald
Green, Cheshire.
HQ Chester Ltd – (R)    
Design and construction of 35 residential apartments, 85
bed hotel, restaurant and commercial offices, Chester.
Ipsen Biopharm Ltd – (R)
Enabling works and construction of new pharmaceutical
development building (30,634 sq.ft.), Wrexham Industrial
Estate.
KK Fine Foods Ltd – (R)
25,340 sq.ft. extension to existing food product facility
comprising single storey warehouse and two storey office
area, Deeside.
UKLP Walker House Ltd – (R)
Refurbishment of landmark Grade II building into offices
(230,000 sq.ft.), ground floor retail and associated
underground parking facilities, Walker House, Liverpool.
Education
Mid-Cheshire College 
Construction of 3 storey building for further education
including associated library and resource services,
Winsford, Cheshire.
Leisure
Frederic Robinson Ltd – (R)
Formation of new hygienic bottling plant area within
existing factory, together with extensive re-configuration of
openings for new conveyor systems, Bredbury, Stockport.
Refurbishment and alterations to “The Grapes” public
house, Hyde, Stockport.
Health
Henry Davidson Developments Ltd – (R)
Construction of 3 storey medical centre incorporating a
pharmacy and associated external works, Nantwich,
Cheshire.
Residential
Prospect (GB) Ltd – (R)
Construction of two 5 storey apartment blocks each
consisting of 60 apartments, Broadway, Salford.
(R) Repeat Client Page 10
Chief Executive’s Report
The Meadows, Cockshutt
the National Awards. We now have £55m of secured work for
the current year (2007: £64m) and there is an encouraging
level of enquiries in hand despite a noticeable decline in a
number of our traditional areas of activity. The education
sector, in particular, remains strong, evidenced by our recently
securing a £7m project to build a new Learning Zone building
for Mid-Cheshire College in Winsford. 
The focus will remain on delivering quality projects to clients’
satisfaction. Approximately 71% of revenue (2007: 77%) was
achieved as a result of negotiated or partnered contracts and
approximately 52% (2007: 50%) of our revenue came by way
of repeat business. Our surveys indicate that we have
maintained our customer satisfaction ratings at 92% (2007:
92%).
Construction Services
Concrete Pumping sales rose by some 7% to £15m (2007:
£14m), achieved from 21,206 jobs (2007: 20,795 jobs) at an
average price per job of £648 (2007: £621), with 1.44m cubic
metres of concrete pumped (2007: 1.38m cubic metres).
Utilisation averaged 77% (2007: 76%) and site reliability
remained in excess of 99%. 
After a solid first half, the second half started slowly and the
price of fuel became the most significant factor affecting
margin. Increasing fuel costs were initially absorbed but
surcharges are being applied from June 2008.
There has been a noticeable decline in activity in the Northern
and Midlands areas of England but the rest of the UK has not
been affected to the same degree, and there are a number of
public sector projects in the pipeline. 
Pumi operations were reduced in line with the policy set out
last year and the division is currently operating 12 machines.
Residential development
The housing market, particularly in our region, has suffered
from the well publicised combination of a collapse in
consumer confidence and an inability for first time buyers to
obtain satisfactory mortgages. The downturn in the market
has led to a review of the carrying value of land and work in
progress, with write downs in values being made where
appropriate. Trading losses have therefore been increased. 
The growth path of the division has been halted and the
number of sales completions was down on last year at 60
(2007: 69), achieved from 7 sites across the region. There are
just 4 reservations carried forward into the new financial year
(2007: 21 reservations), an exceptionally low level, indicating
the severity of current market conditions. 
The average selling price was £135,000, (2007: £159,000),
which is below the regional figure for new homes released by
the Halifax of £171,000 for the North West and below the
regional figure for all properties from the property website
Rightmove at £178,000. This decline reflects an increase in
the proportion of affordable homes allocated in planning
permissions for site development. 
The land bank stands at 104 plots (2007:136 plots) with full
planning permission, with a further 112 plots (2007: 66 plots)
secured and awaiting planning permission, excluding
strategic land held under option. 
David Shaw 
Chief Executive
22 September 2008  Page 11
Chief Executive’s Report
Haydock
