 Business review 
Chief Executive’s Q&A
A conversation with  
the Chief Executive
Q.  What are the key challenges in 
respect of safety and responsible 
development – and how do you  
address them?
While our in-house safety performance was excellent –  
this was the second year in a row that we were able to  
record not only zero fatalities but also a continuing trend  
of reduced injury rates – we of course deeply regret the  
loss of one of our suppliers’ ships in the Sea of Okhotsk.  
We are now taking measures to roll out our health and  
safety approach to our supplier network to address this risk  
in future. Our environmental and social performance remains 
fundamentally important to our sustainable growth, and 
consequently a key area of focus for us. We have made  
a positive impact in every region where we operate, and 
continue to invest heavily in our environmental, safety  
and social programmes.
2010 2011 2012
0.59 0.63
1.9
Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)
1
0.59
1
Per one million hours worked.
Q.  What are your key operational 
priorities for 2013?
While we’re naturally focused on a complete range of 
operational activities, we do have two signiﬁcant priorities – 
achieving our targets for operations at Amursk POX, and the 
completion and ramp-up of Mayskoye. These two objectives 
are pre-requisite to achieving the 1.4 Moz production target 
from our existing asset base in 2014, and to delivering on our 
estimate of 1.2 Moz in 2013. We’re conﬁdent that both these 
priorities will be achieved during the coming year. 
Q.  A production target of 1.4 Moz 
seems now achievable – how do  
you see strategic development  
of the Company beyond 2014?
Although we have yet to deliver the 1.4 Moz, we are already 
looking at the next generation of assets to ensure growth 
beyond 2014. There are key decisions to be made in respect  
of this third generation of assets, including the expansion  
of Albazino and development of the two most signiﬁcant 
greenﬁeld targets, Kutyn and Svetloye. Albazino is the nearest 
target, and represents an excellent example of our exploration 
success. All three of these projects are subject to ongoing 
evaluation and the relevant development decisions will be 
made by the end of 2013 – beginning of 2014.
Q.  How has the Company changed 
since moving to London’s  
main market?
While we continue to go from strength to strength operationally, 
a key area of development has been the compliance with wider 
international standards of corporate governance. Clearly there 
is a far greater amount of attention on Polymetal from a far 
greater range of stakeholders, commentators and press 
regarding the Company’s performance, as well as more  
focus on governance and sustainability from an expanded  
and more demanding investor base. We are therefore 
continuing to focus strongly on governance, transparency  
and stakeholder relations. In general though, we are proud  
of our record of delivering on our promises as this has  
enabled us to outperform both the market and our peer  
group in terms of Total Shareholder Return and to deliver  
real value to our shareholders.
Q.  What would you describe as  
your main achievements and main 
disappointments during the year?
I’m pleased that our achievements have strongly outweighed 
any disappointments, so that while Amursk POX – despite 
achieving its ramp-up and initial production targets – did not 
deliver fully on target, the Company as a whole achieved an 
impressive 31% growth in production. The delay in full ramp-up 
of the Amursk POX does not undermine our conﬁdence for the 
future, and this conﬁdence is further boosted by the great 
progress we have made in other areas, such as the success  
of our growth projects at Omolon and Albazino, and signiﬁcant 
exploration success at both brownﬁeld and greenﬁeld projects.
M&A activity was limited, although a number of relatively small 
acquisitions may offer additional expansion opportunities – in 
particular the new platinum project and the Olcha brownﬁeld 
expansion at Dukat.
“ We are proud of our record of delivering  
on our promises as this has enabled us  
to outperform both the market and our 
peer group in terms of Total Shareholder  
Return and to deliver real value to  
our shareholders.”
 
 Vitaly Nesis
 Chief Executive
Q.  How are these achievements and 
areas for further focus impacting  
on your ﬁnancial performance?
The fact that we achieved production growth ahead of 
expectations, along with our stable performance at mature 
mines, meant that we also delivered improved cost efﬁciency 
and proﬁtability levels, including adjusted EBITDA growth of 
47% and stable total cash costs. In addition, the completion of 
some major growth projects combined with a strong operating 
cash ﬂow resulted in free cash ﬂow generation, a comfortable 
level of debt and solid proﬁtability. Importantly, this also 
enabled us to implement our industry-leading dividend policy, 
with a sizeable US$0.50 per share special dividend.
Left: Operations at the Voro open pit
Top right: Regular equipment checks at the Khakanja plant
Bottom right: The area adjacent to our Mayskoye site in Chukotka
Business review
Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 13 12 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Business review
Business model Polymetal’s business model
Performing in line  
with our business model
Success in our market depends to a large 
extent on our ability to increase our resource 
base, continually develop systems that 
increase production efﬁciency, and improve 
grades. Our business model has therefore 
been developed to ensure that we have the 
best methodology and approach to address 
these issues, and ultimately to ensure that 
we continue to deliver sustainable value. 
Area of focus What we said What we are doing The future
Focusing on  
high-grade assets 
22
Read more about our assets on 22-59
We have a preference for open-pit 
mining unless higher grades justify 
underground development. Grades  
and mining conditions are the key cost 
factors that drive return on invested 
capital in the precious metals industry. 
By setting appropriate thresholds  
on head grades and focusing on 
open-pit mines we are achieving  
better returns and lower risks from  
our project portfolio.
The newest mines which were ramped 
up and/or are under construction –  
most importantly, Omolon hub, Albazino 
and Mayskoye – are all characterised  
by high reserve and resource grades, 
which reduces the project risk and 
ensures good cost levels despite 
complex logistics and weather 
conditions. Further, grade control 
remains a top priority at our existing 
operations thus supporting intense 
management focus on cost control.
Our focus on grade is also embedded 
in our thresholds and targets set for 
assessing organic and inorganic growth 
opportunities, in order to support 
Company’s grade proﬁle going forward. 
At the operational level, we are 
continuing to implement various 
initiatives both at mine planning and 
processing level to ensure continuous 
grade and recovery improvements.
Leveraging our  
hub-based system
6
Read more about our hubs on pages 6, 28-51
Creation of centralised facilities for the 
treatment of materials from different 
sources allows us to minimise 
processing and logistics costs and 
achieve economies of scale.
Omolon and Khakanja are both good 
examples of asset transformation 
supported by the hub concept.  
Both demonstrate solid performance 
improvement in 2012 in terms of 
production growth and cost reduction 
driven by addition of high-grade ore 
sources from medium and small-sized 
satellite deposits.
We are continuing to invest in 
brownﬁeld exploration and searching 
for synergistic M&A targets which  
could extend the life of existing 
operations and/or improve grade 
proﬁle, with acquisition of Olcha  
in 2013 being the latest example.
Investing in exploration
60
Read more on pages 20, 24, 60
This will allow us to ensure a cost-
effective increase in our reserve  
base which is, in turn, the key source  
of long-term organic growth.
Our exploration efforts in 2012 have 
resulted in meaningful growth in 
reserves and resources without 
compromising the grade. New resource 
additions at Albazino are the largest 
success of 2012.
Greenﬁeld and brownﬁeld exploration 
will continue to serve as the principal 
source of future growth assets, some  
of which (Albazino expansion,  
Kutyn and Svetloye) have already  
been identiﬁed.
Maintaining exemplary 
governance
88
Read more on page 88-109
We strive to ensure proper steering  
of the Company, accountability to 
shareholders and attention to other 
stakeholders’ interests.
Good corporate governance and 
listening to our shareholders remains  
a top priority of Polymetal Board and 
executive management, with key  
2012 developments including new 
progressive dividend policy and 
adopting best practices in executive 
remuneration. Health and Safety,  
as well as environmental and social 
performance, are also embedded  
in the management’s KPIs and  
remain an area of focus.
Going forward, the Board will 
continuously focus on compliance  
with UK best practice in corporate and 
on further improvement in health and 
safety record, as well as on maintaining 
a robust system of internal control.
Delivering
sustainable
value
Maintaining exemplary governance
Maintaining exemplary governance
Focusing on high-grade assets
Investing in exploration   
Leveraging our hub-based system
Business philosophy
What we like and do
  High return on invested capital and meaningful dividends
  Brownﬁeld projects based on the concept of  
processing hubs: capital light, simple, predictable
  High-grade medium-size projects
  Synergy-driven M&A
What we don’t like and don’t do
  Low return on capital (even at low total cash costs)  
and symbolic dividends
   Greenﬁeld projects: expensive, complex, risky
  Very large low-grade projects
 M&A driven by desire to grow production
 Delivering sustainable value 
Three elements form the substance  
of our business model: a focus  
on high-grade assets, support  
and expansion of our hub-based 
operating system and investment  
in exploration – underpinned by a 
commitment to strong governance.
Business review
Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 15 14 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012
