 Business review 
Strategy update
Operating to a  
consistent strategy
How we’ve performed
Strategy
What we said
Our strategy to generate sustainable 
value for our stakeholders remains 
consistent, with clearly deﬁned 
objectives – achieving production 
capacity, investing in exploration, 
pursuing acquisitions, increasing 
proﬁtability, reﬁning governance 
processes – and consequent targets, 
key performance indicators and 
measurement processes.
What we did in 2012 Key achievements
 Delivered strongly in overall terms 
against all our operating objectives and 
associated key performance indicators
Gold equivalent production  
up 31%
 Progressed steadily in our  
exploration targets
Meaningful Reserve and 
Resource growth through 
exploration 
 Focused on cost control  
and efﬁciency
Increased proﬁtability and  
cash ﬂow
Strategy Objective KPI 2012 performance
Achieving design capacity at current growth projects
 Achieve design capacity at projects currently in construction or ramp-up phase by the second half of 2013  
and achieve production level of 1.4 Moz of gold equivalent ounces in 2014. Assets in construction or ramp-up  
phase expected to generate production growth are the Amursk POX and Mayskoye concentrator.
 Achieve design capacity at all plants 
and targeted production volumes  
(1.4 Moz) in 2014
 Complete key capex projects
 Gold equivalent produced (Koz)
1,063/+31%
 Average gold equivalent grade 
processed (g/t)
4.4/+15%
 Revenue (US$ m)
1,854/+40%
 Capital expenditure (US$ m)
351/-24%
 Major project milestones completed Albazino – achieving design parameters
 Omolon – achieving design  
parameters after commissioning  
the Merrill-Crowe section
 Amursk – commissioned,  
ramp-up underway
Investment in exploration
Near-mine
 Investment in near-mine exploration with the aim of expanding the Group’s reserve base and creating opportunities for 
production growth, either through grade improvement or expansion of existing processing facilities. Assets targeted  
for this expansion are Albazino, Khakanja and Voro.
Greenﬁeld
 Investment in greenﬁeld exploration with the aim of discovering high-grade quality assets for construction of  
new standalone mines. 
 Expand reserve and resource base 
with quality assets
 Resource growth
+35%
 Average resource grade (GE)
3.3 g/t
 Reserve growth 
+6%
 Average reserve grade (GE)
3.9 g/t
Increasing proﬁtability, cash ﬂow generation and dividend payout
Deliver superior operating proﬁtability and strong free cash ﬂow by maintaining tight cost control, focusing on return  
on capital in investment decisions and maintaining safe debt levels.
 Deliver superior operating proﬁtability
 Total cash cost/GE sold
703/0%
 Free cash ﬂow
US$139m/positive
 EBITDA margin
50%/+3pp
 Dividend payout ratio
79%
Pursuing synergistic value-driven acquisitions
Pursuit of selected synergistic ‘bolt-on’ or other value-accretive acquisition opportunities with a view to leveraging processing 
capacity, infrastructure and operational expertise at our existing processing hubs or transforming current standalone mines 
into new hubs.
 Transactions made or agreed 
during 2012
 Acquisition of Svetlobor – greenﬁeld 
PGM project
 Acquisition of Olcha – bolt-on to 
Lunnoye (completed in January 2013)
Reﬁning corporate governance and social responsibility
Maintain high standards of corporate governance, strictly adhering to the principles of sustainable development in our 
interaction with all stakeholders in our operations, including communities, employees and government bodies. We are 
compliant with the majority of provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code made by the Board to ensure full  
compliance from June 2013. The Group is also a participant in the UN Global Compact, a recognised international  
standard for sustainable development.
 Maintain high standards of corporate 
governance and sustainable 
development
 Compliance with UK  
Corporate Governance Code
  Refer to page 91 detailing how  
we have complied
 LTIFR
0.59/-6%
 Social and community investments 
(US$)
6m/+50%
 GHG emissions 
(tonnes per 10Kt ore mined)
1.8/-10%
Business review
Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 17 16 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Business review
Delivering on our promises The Polymetal hub structure
Standalone mining 
operations
Hub
Key exploration 
projects
Amursk
Russia’s ﬁrst operating pressure 
oxidation plant
Omolon
An excellent performance reﬂecting 
the successful implementation  
of our hub concept
Efﬁcient processing model
Our strategy of creating centralised processing 
facilities to treat ores and concentrates from 
surrounding sources enables us to run 
operations that are characterised by efﬁciency, 
and capital and cost effectiveness. We have 
further developed this system during the year, 
and by the end of 2014 we expect our Amursk, 
Omolon, Dukat and Khakanja hubs to be 
producing up to 80% of the Group’s total output.
Driving hub development 
and production growth
Production
This has been a very rewarding  
year in terms of production results, 
with total gold equivalent production  
of 1.06 Moz – 31% up on 2011, 
representing our best ever  
annual increase
Achievements
This excellent result was driven by strong all-round 
performance, with a notable improvement at Dukat and 
successful ramp-up at Omolon and Albazino, our key growth 
projects. Annual gold production increased to 589 Koz, up 
33% compared to 2011. Silver production was 26.5 Moz –  
also up 33% on 2011 – as a result of higher grades and 
recoveries at Dukat, successful processing of high-grade 
Sopka ore at Omolon, and increased grades at Khakanja.
2010 2011 2012
1,063
810
753
The Group’s gold equivalent production (Kt)
+31%
We commissioned our ﬂagship Amursk plant and poured  
our ﬁrst gold in April 2012 as planned. While throughput did 
reach expected levels in late November, we then experienced 
some operational issues which have meant that we have not 
yet achieved expected levels of sustainable performance.  
However we have already implemented the necessary  
remedial measures, and are expecting recovery throughout  
the year with full capacity being achieved by the fourth quarter 
of 2013. In the meantime, we will be able to generate cash 
ﬂows by continuing concentrate sales to third-party off-takers.
What we said
Our original annual gold equivalent production estimate  
of 1 Moz for 2012 was increased during the year to  
1.05 Moz, and although we had set ourselves some  
typically stretching targets we ﬁnished the year delighted  
with the outcome.
What we did
 Achieved an increase of 14% in ore mined to 12,591 Kt.
 Achieved actual gold equivalent production for the year  
of 1,063 Moz, a 31% increase compared to 2011.
Production highlights included:
Dukat
Increased grade proﬁle, expansion of mining  
at Goltsovoye, and improved recovery levels  
at the main Omsukchan concentrator. 
Albazino/Amursk hub
The Albazino mine and concentrator reaching design 
capacity, start of commercial production at Amursk,  
combined with continued concentrate sales  
to third-party off-takers.  
Omolon
Dramatic increase in capacity at the Kubaka plant,  
higher than planned amounts of ore transported  
from Sopka. 
Khakanja
Grade proﬁle increase generating 28%  
production growth.  
Processing 
plants
The 46% increase in volume of ore processed and 114% 
growth in gold is a tremendous turnaround story from  
a previously under-performing asset, with production  
of 173 Koz of gold equivalent after transportation  
of high-grade ore from Sopka and the commissioning  
of the Merrill-Crowe circuit at the refurbished Kubaka plant.
2010 2011 2012
173
46
19
Omolon’s gold equivalent production (Kt)
+279%
The Amursk plant is one of our key projects and one which  
will give us a signiﬁcant competitive advantage, both nationally 
and in the global gold industry. The pressure oxidation 
technology opens up opportunities for Polymetal in terms  
of efﬁcient and cost effective processing of refractory gold 
deposits in Russia and the CIS.
Gold equivalent production by mine (Koz) 
357
164
157
134
173
77
 Dukat
 Khakanja
 Voro
 Varvara
 Omolon
 Albazino/Amursk
Business review
Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 19 18 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012
