 Chairman’s
Statement
I am delighted to present
KazakhGold Group Limited’s 
ﬁrst Report and Accounts, for 
the period from 26 September to
31 December 2005. KazakhGold
was incorporated in Jersey on 
26 September 2005, with the
intention of unlocking what we
believe to be the largest-known
gold reserves and resources in
Kazakhstan. From this base,
KazakhGold aims to become 
one of central Asia’s leading 
gold mining companies.
Our strategy is to realize the full potential 
of the Group’s existing assets; signiﬁcantly
expanding production in the medium term
and pursuing growth opportunities, both 
in Kazakhstan and elsewhere in the region,
that create value for shareholders. Where
appropriate, KazakhGold will partner with
other leading mining companies to realize
the full potential of our existing resources
and to pursue acquisition opportunities. 
On 12 October 2005, the Group acquired
the entire issued units of Romanshorn LC 
AG from Kanat Assaubayev and Marussya
Assaubayeva for nil consideration.
Romanshorn is the holding company of 
the Group’s main operating subsidiary
Kazakhaltyn. 
In November, KazakhGold successfully
completed an Initial Public Offering (IPO),
joining the London Stock Exchange Main
Market on 1 December 2005. The IPO was
ﬁve times over-subscribed and the issue of
7.1 million new shares raised some US$97.4
million for the Group net of costs.
Results and dividend
From 26 September to 31 December 2005,
the Group had total revenue of US$20.4
million, and a loss after tax of US$2.2 million.
During this period, the Group mined and
processed 757,048 tonnes of ore with an
average grade of 3.25 grammes per tonne
of gold, enabling 52,691oz of gold 
to be recovered.
As stated at the time of last year’s IPO, the
Board does not propose the payment of
shareholder dividends until the current plant
modernisation programme is completed and
our processing facilities reach their maximum
designed output capacity. After this, and
subject to KazakhGold’s performance, we
intend to commence paying dividends
progressively of up to 25 per cent of the
Group’s consolidated annual net income.
Strategic developments
Since our IPO, KazakhGold has continued 
to seek new exploration and production
opportunities in Kazakhstan. Following a
successful tender, the Kazakh government
awarded the Group ﬁve new licences that
include mineral rights to Southern Karaultube
and Kyzylsorskoe in Northern Kazakhstan,
Pridorojnoe and Kaskabulakskoe in Eastern
Kazakhstan and Zones 1 & 2 of the Akshatau
MMC deposit in central Kazakhstan. Further
details about these properties are included 
in the Operational Review.
In September 2005, Kazakhaltyn reached 
an agreement with Barrick Gold to cooperate
with the exploration of new properties in
Kazakhstan and elsewhere in central Asia.
Detailed negotiations remain ongoing and
are expected to be concluded later in 2006.
Early in 2005, Kazakhaltyn began
negotiations with the China National Gold
Corporation regarding the future
development of underground mining at
Bestobe. An agreement is expected shortly,
whereby China Gold will act as a
subcontractor, providing equipment and
operational management. 
Board and management 
In overseeing the development and
implementation of our strategy, the Group 
is fortunate to be able to draw upon the
Board’s signiﬁcant industry, technical, and
international expertise, as well as in-depth
local operational knowledge. The Directors
are supported by an experienced senior
management team and dedicated workforce.
Their hard work has enabled our three main
operating assets to be reconﬁgured and to
meet the production targets set for 2005.
Without the continuing support and loyalty
of our employees, to whom the Board
extends its gratitude, the Group’s
achievements of 2005 would not have 
been possible. 
KazakhGold Group Limited 4 KazakhGold Group Limited 5
Corporate governance
The Board supports the principles of good
corporate governance. Although there are
no corporate governance recommendations
applicable to companies incorporated in
Jersey, the Group intends, so far as it is 
able, having regard to its size and stage 
of development, to comply with the
recommendations of the Combined Code 
on Corporate Governance for UK registered
and listed companies. To this end, the Board
has established three committees with
delegated duties and responsibilities for:
Audit; Health, Safety & Environment; and
Remuneration matters. 
Although the Board has responsibility for
maximising shareholder returns, it is also
determined that KazakhGold’s operations
adopt sound environmental management
practices, employ sustainable development
policies, and that the Group is a valued
member of all the communities in which it
operates. Given the nature of the Group’s
activities, the Board places a high priority 
on ensuring that KazakhGold and its
subsidiaries provide a healthy, safe and
fulﬁlling workplace for employees. 
Outlook
In December 2005, Kazakhstan’s President
Nursultan Nazarbayev was re-elected for 
a further seven-year term. Under President
Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan is moving towards 
a free-market economy that is supportive of
business and foreign direct investment. For
gold mining companies such as KazakhGold,
further investment is encouraged by keeping
royalty payments at a realistic level. In 2005,
for example, the Group paid royalties of 
2.3 per cent of its production value, which
compares favourably with rates of over six
per cent in countries such as Russia. 
The Group’s results are inﬂuenced by 
macro-economic factors such as the gold
price and the tenge/US dollar exchange 
rate. At the end of 2005, gold prices rose
above US$500/oz, a level not seen since 
the early 1980s. 
KazakhGold’s costs are primarily
denominated in Kazakh tenge. While 
this was of beneﬁt to us last year, as the
tenge depreciated against the US dollar, 
this favourable trend began to reverse
following the Presidential elections. The
tenge is also a petro-currency, reﬂecting the
importance of the oil sector to the Kazakh
economy. Inevitably, this will see some
inﬂationary pressure in Kazakhstan during
2006. While the Group cannot inﬂuence
these external macro-economic factors, we
will continue to focus on managing our costs.
KazakhGold expects to increase gold output
signiﬁcantly over the medium term. We 
will achieve this by a dramatic expansion 
of our processing capacity, using simple 
but effective production and processing
methods. In 2006 we are conducting 
further exploration of Aksu’s signiﬁcant Vera
zone. We are also evaluating the possibility
of accelerating the Group’s investment
programme, to achieve even higher
production levels over a shorter time period.
Top-line growth will be supported by
increasing our reserves, through realization
of the full potential of our existing and
recently acquired assets. Our joint venture
with Barrick Gold will provide us with access
to valuable expertise, accelerating the joint
exploration of several properties acquired
through successful tender last year. Overall,
the Board is conﬁdent that KazakhGold has
the strategy, management expertise and
growth opportunities to make further
signiﬁcant progress in 2006. 
Lord Daresbury
Chairman
