 Polyus Gold International / Annual report / 2013
14
Back to the contents
I am pleased to present to shareholders the results of Polyus 
Gold. Against a background of declining gold prices which fell 
30% between January and June 2013 to USD 1,192 per oz, Polyus 
demonstrated strong performance, which is underpinned not just 
by increasing volumes of processed ore but also by an increased 
focus on cost control throughout our operations.
We have revised our plans for the Natalka project both 
in the light of the tough economic conditions and to al-
low for further testing of advanced processing techniques, 
which are showing great promise in early testing. We now 
expect to have the full flowsheet operating at this strategic 
deposit in 2015.
There have been some major changes to the Board over 
the course of the year. Following the resignation of Dmi-
tri Razumov (a representative of ONEXIM) and Alexander 
Mosionzhik (a representative of Wandle Holdings Limited), 
Igor Gorin, a representative of Receza Limited and Wamika 
Trading Limited, joined the Board as a Non-Executive Di-
rector. Igor brings with him a wealth of experience from the 
investment and corporate banking sector. Chairman, Rob-
ert Buchan, left to take up a new executive appointment 
in late May and I was honoured to be offered the opportu-
nity to succeed him. The Board was further strengthened 
by the appointment of another Non-Executive Director, 
Edward Dowling. Edward’s deep knowledge of the min-
ing industry is certain to be of great value to the business 
in the coming years. On 13 November, Lord Clanwilliam re-
signed from the Board and Pavel Grachev, a representative 
of Wandle Holdings Limited was nominated to the Board. 
Pavel has much experience serving on the Boards of public 
companies, and as the CEO of a large fertilizer producer. 
Lastly, German Pikhoya, CEO of the Company, decided 
to resign from his position in order to pursue other activi-
ties. I should like to take this opportunity to thank Robert, 
Dmitri, Alexander, Lord Clanwilliam and German for their 
contribution to the Company’s success.
The Board and its Committees have been active over the 
year, meeting 22 times and 26 times respectively. The 
Board’s work has included visits to the Olimpiada and Bla-
godatnoye mines, and the Chairman of the Audit Commit-
tee has additionally visited Natalka. As well as being im-
portant as part of the Board’s oversight role, these visits 
serve to guide our strategic decision-making and ensure 
that we are reminded of the challenges faced by our opera-
tions teams, who work in some of the most hostile condi-
tions in the world.
2. Strategic 
report
2.1. Chairman’s  
Statement Polyus Gold International / Annual report / 2013
15
Back to the contents
Mining operations have long been considered as inherently 
dangerous and therefore ensuring the health and safety 
of everyone who works for Polyus Gold is a high priority for 
the Group. We aim to maintain a safe and healthy working 
environment and we are confident that all injuries at Group 
operations are preventable. Set against this background, 
it is therefore deeply saddening to have to report the death 
of three of our employees in 2013 while working at the 
Company’s most challenging alluvial sites. The Group con-
siders any fatality as unacceptable and is focusing on the 
complete prevention and elimination of workplace hazards. 
During the year, Edward Dowling, a long-term industry pro-
fessional, was appointed as Chairman of the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Community Committee and we are con-
fident that Edward will draw on his extensive experience 
to help further improve our safety procedures and manage-
ment systems.
We recognise that our operations impact on local communi-
ties and the environment. We aim to work with communities 
to mitigate potential impacts, through the formal stakeholder 
engagement process, environmental and social impact assess-
ment studies and community development programmes. Dur-
ing 2013, the Board approved the Company’s Human rights 
and Stakeholder Engagement Policies, setting new standards 
for the Company’s work with local communities.
As a socially responsible employer, every year we commit sig-
nificant funding to community projects and charitable causes. 
We are confident about the Company’s prospects for 2014. 
It would not be appropriate for us to offer a detailed for-
ward prediction on gold prices. For impairment purposes 
we have used a long-term price forecast of USD 1,350 
per oz, which, at the date of the publication of the con-
solidated financial statements, was in line with the market 
price. In order to be conservative we have used USD 1,200 
per oz for our budget purposes for 2014 and at that price, 
supported by external financing, we expect to remain cash 
positive for the year, even after taking into account planned 
capital expenditure of approximately USD 674 million.
We face 2014 with continued vigour. We have some of the 
world’s best reserves, both in terms of size and quality, and 
a team fully committed to delivering world-leading results 
and excellent shareholder value.
Ilya Yuzhanov
Chairman of the Board
London, 24 March 2014
Olimpiada. In-pit road.
