 President &
CEO’s Review
Laying the foundations for
sustainable growth
2005 was a successful year as well as an
important milestone in the development 
of KazakhGold Group and its principal
operating subsidiary Kazakhaltyn. Our
production targets were met and the
ﬁnancial and operational foundations were
laid to realize the full potential of our assets.
These assets, we believe, comprise the
largest-known gold reserves and resources 
in Kazakhstan.
KazakhGold’s London IPO in November 
2005 led to the issue of 13.1 million Global
Depositary Receipts (GDRs) at US$15 per
GDR. This included a primary issue of 7.1
million new shares, with net proceeds of
some US$97.4 million, after costs. Our GDRs
were admitted to the Main Market of the
London Stock Exchange on 1 December 2005.
KazakhGold employed 3,209 people at the
end of 2005. The success of our business
reﬂects their skill, professionalism and sheer
hard work. I should like to acknowledge
their enormous contribution and ongoing
role in shaping the future of our business.
2005 Operating Results 
(26 September – 31 December 2005)
The Group is reporting results for the period
26 September 2005 (the date of incorporation)
to 31 December 2005. On 12 October 2005,
KazakGold Group Limited acquired
Kazakhaltyn and accordingly the results of
Kazakhaltyn are included in those of the
Group’s ﬁnancial statements from this date.
From July to December 2005, there
was a phased increase in production at
Kazakhaltyn’s three principal mines. This
followed their partial closure from August
2004 to July 2005, during which time the
mine facilities were reconﬁgured and
upgraded. The Group’s operating and
ﬁnancial results for the reporting period are
therefore not typical. In future, the Group
will provide annual and interim results.
In the last quarter of 2005, the Group mined
and processed 757,048 tonnes of ore, with
an average grade of 3.25 grammes per
tonne and an average recovery rate of 66.7
per cent. During the period, 52,691oz of
gold was produced, at an average cash 
cost of US$210/oz.
KazakhGold Group Limited 
6
2005 Results Summary (26 September – 31 December 2005)
Total ore processed 757,048 tonnes
Recovered grade 3.25 grammes/tonne
Recovery rate 66.7 per cent
Gold production 52,691oz
Average production cost US$210/oz KazakhGold Group Limited 7
Strategy in Action
KazakhGold aims to become one of 
central Asia’s leading gold mining
companies. To achieve this, our strategy 
has four key components: 
• Introduce more appropriate and modern
processing technologies
• Signiﬁcantly raise gold production
• Capture growth opportunities 
(organic and acquired)
• Partner with global sector leaders
I am pleased to report that in 2005,
including the period 26 September to 31
December 2005, we have made progress
against all these strategic priorities.
Effective processing technologies
As part of our modernisation programme,
we are now seeing the beneﬁts from
reducing our dependence on gravitation 
and ﬂotation technologies. This follows 
the introduction of more appropriate ore
processing methods, such as carbon-in-pulp.
We are now able to recover gold not only
from underground ore, but also from open
pit oxide ore, old tailings and low-grade ore
in waste dumps. The transition helps us
produce and sell greater volumes of higher
margin gold products, rather than ﬂotation
and gravitation concentrates.
Production expansion
In the third quarter of 2005, Kazakhaltyn
began operations at Aksu and Bestobe’s 
new heap leaching facilities, and started
processing ore at modernised concentration
and extraction plants at Aksu and
Zholymbet. Almost all of KazakhGold’s 
new or reconstructed processing facilities 
are expected to continue increasing their
processing capacity from 2006, until our
current modernisation programme is fully
implemented. This additional capacity will
enable a substantial increase in gold
production in 2006 and beyond.
Capturing growth opportunities
Our growth strategy is to increase
KazakhGold’s reserve base, through
conversion of our existing gold resources,
and to expand our current portfolio of gold
mining operations by actively pursuing
appropriate acquisitions. 
The Group intends to participate in
government tenders and to negotiate 
with potential sellers in the private sector. 
In December 2005, for example, we were
awarded licences to ﬁve new exploration
properties in Kazakhstan. Where beneﬁcial,
we will consider selective acquisitions of
underperforming, operational gold mining
companies or their assets, and mineral rights
to exploration properties in Kazakhstan and
elsewhere in central Asia. 
International partners 
KazakhGold will use its local knowledge 
and expertise to partner with international
mining companies. In September 2005, a
memorandum of understanding was signed
between Kazakhaltyn and Barrick Gold
Corporation, one of the world’s leading gold
mining companies, to cooperate with the
joint development of new licences, such as
those acquired in Kazakhstan during
December 2005. With Barrick Gold, the
Group will also seek other development
opportunities in both Kazakhstan and
elsewhere in central Asia.
Additionally, in 2005, Kazakhaltyn began
negotiations with the China National Gold
Corporation, China’s leading gold mining
company, with a view to CNGC becoming 
a subcontractor for underground mining 
at Bestobe. 2006 Priorities and Outlook
In 2006 we are continuing to develop open
pit mining at our three principal mines. Work
will be initiated at Zholymbet in the second
half of 2006, whilst at Aksu and Bestobe
production is being increased steadily
throughout the year. In the ﬁrst quarter 
of 2006 we produced 33,624 oz of gold,
which was in line with our expectations. 
We intend to signiﬁcantly expand the
Group’s use of carbon-in-pulp processing
methods. This technology beneﬁts from no
seasonal effects and enables the recovery 
of up to 95 per cent of the gold present in
ore. It is compatible with ore mined at our
underground and open pit operations. 
In the second half of 2006, processing is
scheduled to begin at a new heap leach
facility in Zholymbet. The priority there will
be to process some 12.5 million tonnes of
dumps, with a gold content of 1.2 grammes
per tonne. At Aksu and Bestobe, we
anticipate further expansion of our heap
leaching capacity, to support planned
increases in our gold production.
At a strategic level, the Group will continue
to seek opportunities to acquire additional
properties in Kazakhstan and elsewhere 
in the region, partnering with other
organisations, where appropriate, to 
develop such assets.
Kanat Assaubayev
President & Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
President &
CEO’s Review
(continued)
KazakhGold Group Limited 8
Performance monitoring at the Group’s recently
installed CIP processing facilities
