 Our  
objectives
Performance
I am pleased to report that 2014 was an extremely exciting 
year in the relatively short history of the Porta Group. The 
consolidation of the Corporate and Capital Markets PR 
businesses under the single Newgate brand, with a strong 
and growing international footprint, has been particularly 
positive as it benefits from scale and brings together some 
of the best people in the industry. 
Our consumer PR capabilities ramped up dramatically in 
the year with the acquisition of Publicasity. Both Redleaf 
and PPS, welcomed during the year, helped significantly to 
strengthen the Financial PR, Public Affairs, Corporate and 
crisis offer in the UK. 
These acquisitions, together with WSM Print & Design and 
Digital, mean that Porta is successfully progressing its 
acquisition strategy to supplement the strong organic 
growth in our existing dynamic businesses. It also means 
that our London headquarters is near capacity, delivering 
clear benefits to the integrated offering as well as to the 
profitability, discussed later in this Report. 
The Board and Governance
The Board has been active and efficient during the year, 
assessing the opportunities presented by management and 
assisting in the strategic direction of the Group and by 
referring new businesses to Porta companies. The overall 
contribution continues to be invaluable.
The Board in 2014 has focused upon the Group’s strategic 
direction and performance, particularly against challenging 
markets. We will continue to develop the Group’s strategy 
and report upon progress. The Board has determined that 
the 2014 Annual Report as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable. It provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the performance and the strategy 
of the Group. The Governance Report on pages 50 to 53 
of this Annual Report provides further details about the 
operation of the Board and its principal committees. 
Annual General Meeting 
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will be held at 
11.00 am on 25 June 2015 and the Notice of Meeting and 
explanatory notes which accompany this Annual Report 
can also be found on our website. 
Our people
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of 
our people for their significant contribution to our success 
over the past year. I would like to take this opportunity to 
welcome our new colleagues to Porta. Our people are our 
biggest asset and during the year the management team 
appointed a Group Head of Human Resources from within 
the Group to help with professional development as well as 
strengthening our compliance. We also promoted a Group 
Development Director and added capacity in the IT and 
accounting functions. Overall we have implemented major 
restructuring initiatives during 2014 and the successful and 
timely delivery of these as well as the financial performance 
of the Company has been down to the passion, hard work 
and effort of all our people.  
Bob Morton 
Chairman
27 May 2015 
Chairman’s Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Bob Morton 
Chairman
It has been a year of significant accomplishment for 
the Group. We executed well against our strategic 
priorities to capture growth, both organically and 
through acquisitions, to build a world class platform 
of integrated marketing services.
Market Capitalisation 
£24.1m up 11%  
[2013: £21.7m]
People
262 up 136%  
[2013: 111]
“
”
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
5
