 Porta
Strategy
Chief Executive’s Business Review
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Gross profit for the year ended 31 December 2014 rose from 
£8.3 million to £19.4 million, a gain of over 130% while 
organic growth (stripping out first time contributions from 
acquisitions) was 75% higher compared with single digit 
growth in the sector. This excludes TTMG which was closed.
Porta is pleased to report positive EBITDA for the first time, 
which has been achieved despite the Group incurring higher 
property costs, with the acquisitions taking longer to 
complete than anticipated and almost £0.4 million extra 
costs associated with the termination of the previous LLP 
structures which we had to close in line with HMRC 
guidance. Headline EBITDA was nearly three times higher at 
£2.2 million once the exceptional costs, particularly start-
ups, are added back. Many of these exceptional costs will 
be eliminated in the current year. 
With the exception of France and China, the Group has now 
completed its phase of start-ups with future growth being a 
mixture of organic and acquisition. Given the size of Porta 
and restricted access to funds, this strategy was the right 
course for the Group in the early years. Indeed, these assets 
have been developed, albeit over a longer period, for a 
fraction of their present value if acquired today.
Through start-ups, together with strategic income producing 
acquisitions, Porta has now built an integrated international 
marketing group covering the majority of client requirements.
Communications 
Trading during 2014 was particularly strong in Newgate 
globally, with organic growth of well over 70%. Newgate 
Australia, helped by the privatisation of Medibank, was the 
star performer. Fee income was up by nearly 200% in its 
first full year of operation. However, the weakness of the 
Australian dollar reduced Group EBITDA by £0.16 million in 
the year. Both Newgate Hong Kong and Newgate Singapore 
were profitable in very difficult markets, reflecting the quality 
of the teams in both areas.
In London, Newgate continued to show strong growth 
helped by the strength of the IPO market particularly at the 
beginning of the year. The former Threadneedle business 
has been restructured under new management and is now 
fully integrated into the Newgate capital markets offering.  
It is pleasing to see that Newgate maintains its position as 
the number one agency for the number of AIM clients that it 
is retained by. Given the success of recent pitches, Newgate 
David Wright 
Chief Executive Officer
The growing maturity of all our start-up companies, 
together with the success achieved by marketing 
Porta as a fully integrated group, has again 
produced outstanding growth, particularly in the 
communications division.
13
“
”
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
FINANCIAL
PR
CORPORATE
PR
INVESTOR
RELATIONS
PUBLIC
AFFAIRS
BRAND
BUILDING
CONSUMER
PR
DIGITAL
MEDIA
Client
communications
requirements
Porta
Communications should not only maintain its strong ranking but also enjoy 
further success this year. Pitching with other disciplines in 
the Group has been a contributing factor behind the strong 
results showing elsewhere in Newgate globally.
Redleaf Polhill, of which 51% was acquired in the 
first half of 2014, has benefited significantly from its 
strengthening reputation, evidenced by the number of 
awards that it has won during the year. Under its 
impressive management team, the agency goes from 
strength to strength and is expected to become 
increasingly important to the Group’s overall performance.
On the consumer PR side, the start-up 
13 Communications suffered from an initial lack of critical 
mass and had taken longer than anticipated to become 
profitable. However, with new client wins, including one 
large project, this business is now profitable.
The Group’s consumer PR business has been bolstered by 
the acquisition of Publicasity at the end of 2014. Under its 
young and very enthusiastic management team, the 
company has won a number of new clients since 
becoming part of the Group which augurs well for 2015.
PPS, the other acquisition made by Porta towards the end 
of 2014, is also making a major contribution to both 
Newgate and the Group. Ranked number one by fee 
income in the PR Week Public Affairs league table, PPS 
has not only become a major contributor to Group profits 
but has also materially strengthened the Newgate 
management structure including its accounting and 
marketing functions.
Marketing and advertising 
2112, the multi-media creative communications agency, 
has built a very impressive client base which has taken 
longer than expected to be reflected on the bottom line. 
More recently, however, the quality of the work and the 
quick turnaround of each project have led to a major 
upswing in the volume of business being generated from its 
key clients. The business is now trading profitably and a 
much better performance is expected in the current year.
TTMV, the media buying agency based in Tunbridge Wells, 
struggled as a result of the loss of its two major accounts 
and the Group took the view towards the end of the 
financial year that it could no longer continue to support the 
company financially. A decision was therefore taken to 
close the company. Summit, the design studio also based 
in Tunbridge Wells, has always been profitable. Since the 
closure of TTMV, Summit has expanded its operation, 
picking up new clients and making five new hires. We 
are anticipating an even better performance from them 
this year.
Outlook
Looking to the immediate future, the priority is to build on 
a very stable platform of businesses which the Board is 
confident will continue to generate strong organic growth. 
The main emphasis will be to:
● ● Widen the range of services and products
● ● Improve geographical coverage
● ● Double the size of the business through organic and 
acquisition growth and
● ● Improve the market perception and rating
As for the current year, the performance in the first five 
months gives the Board every confidence that all the 
growth trends seen in 2014 will continue.
David Wright 
Group Chief Executive
27 May 2015
Chief Executive’s Business Review (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2014
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
14
