 06 AIT Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Financial Services
The Financial Services industry is under pressure to cut the costs of servicing and
selling to customers, while all the time meeting the burden of increased regulation.
Increased customer sophistication and choice makes this a more demanding
challenge than ever before. The intense fight for customer wallet share means 
that only the best organisations will remain competitive. 
AIT is working with some of the world’s best retail banks, building societies and
insurance companies to cut costs while enabling intelligent, profitable interactions
with customers in the branch, the contact centre or on the web. For the first time,
every channel benefits from a comprehensive, real-time view of the customer, 
thus allowing these organisations to cross-sell the full range of their products in 
a targeted way, from simple banking services through to higher value financial
advice. More importantly, because Portrait enables organisations to treat all their
customers as individuals, they also know when not to attempt a sale. 
Our Intelligent Prompting™ technology guides staff to rewarding cross-sales and
pro-active service opportunities. With a single click, customers, tellers and agents
can initiate and manage automated processes and workflows that meet needs
efficiently, professionally and in an auditable way. Business users can quickly design
and deploy new processes based on our library of Portrait Frameworks. Insurance
firms who seek to lower costs while raising service levels for faster claims resolution
means happier customers, less litigation and other efficiency gains. Portrait also
helps to prevent mis-selling by effecting automated processes that cannot
circumvent best practice. 
AIT is working with some of the 
world’s best retail banks, building 
societies and insurance companies 
to cut costs while enabling 
intelligent, profitable interactions 
with customers in the branch, 
the contact centre or on the web AIT Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 07
”AIT’s award-winning Portrait implementation at Nationwide
Building Society is already achieving good results and has
outperformed expectations. Thanks to Portrait’s Intelligent
Prompts, successful prompted conversations are running at
double original estimates. Nationwide’s employees have been
impressed with Portrait as it enables them to develop enhanced
relationships with customers by treating them as individuals,
and the feedback from members has been positive. Nationwide
is happy that all of the original return on investment criteria
will be met.”
Simon Baines, iCRM Director, Nationwide Building Society
Case Study: Nationwide
•12,000 users at branches, call centres and web
applications
•Real-time single customer view
•Positive member feedback
•Intelligent Prompts increases conversion rates for 
sales campaigns
•Nationwide is happy that all original ROI criteria 
will be met
