 02 AIT Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
AIT at a glance
AIT serves clients who typically operate in the Business to Consumer markets
and who have a very large number of client interactions, which often occur
in multiple touch points (i.e. Contact Centre, web, branch etc.). 
Our most powerful and latest product is Portrait. Portrait’s unique selling
point is that it allows all types of information and business processes to 
be quickly, easily and effectively manipulated within a customer’s complex 
IT environment.
We believe the Customer Interaction 
sweet spot includes elements from each 
of these to deliver the next generation
multi-channel solution. We call it Customer
Interaction Management, or CIM. It is
designed to be responsive to change and
allows users to start with a single process
and scale up as required. 
Our Market
BPM
CRM
Stops short of the interaction
Inflexible = Unresponsive
Only part of the problem
No process automation
Simulates processes
Difficult to execute
EAI
AIT is now entirely focussed towards the
Customer Interaction marketplace. This 
is a sub-segment of three major IT market
segments: CRM (Customer Relationship
Management), BPM (Business Process
Management) and EAI (Enterprise
Application Integration, sometimes
referred to as Middleware).  AIT Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 03
Our Global Presence
Partners
Business Units
Over 150 customers in more than 20 countries
Financial Services
Our Financial Services group is responsible for all our
Financial Services application development. Specific
emphasis is being placed by this group towards
extending our Portrait based sales and services
product platform. We are planning a number of new
product releases to help our customers in these key
areas during our current financial year.
Public Services
This group is working with our partner Unisys to
capture the potential in this market sector, both in
the UK and overseas. This should allow us to tap in
to the increasing levels of public sector investment 
in this area. In particular, we see opportunities for
our technology in the rapidly developing Emergency
Services sector.
Contact Centres
Our next generation Contact Centre group is
responsible for all specific Contact Centre
applications. In particular, they have been working
with key EDGE customers to help them extend and
evolve their existing EDGE applications, allowing
them to utilise much of the inherent power offered
by AIT’s technology, without sacrificing their existing
EDGE application development. 
Foundation Software
This group is responsible for the development of 
our Portrait architecture, with particular emphasis
towards developing our flexible Business Process
Engine, which is the real power behind our overall
Portrait product. Of particular relevance in this area
is our association with Fiserv, which is proving highly
beneficial to both parties and is increasing the
market penetration of Portrait.
