 10 AIT Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Public Services
Portrait Public Services is a revolutionary response management environment
designed to reduce the burden on the world’s most mission critical command
centres while increasing the speed and quality of response.
In the UK, AIT is addressing the need for improvements in policing required by 
the Home Office National Policing Strategy. This called for more customer focussed
service, the highest levels of efficiency and effectiveness, timely response to 999
calls, the civilianisation of non-police work and the requirement to work across
geographical and institutional boundaries (for example in child protection). There
was also a call to use the latest technology to gather evidence, for case-handling,
for victim on-line self-service and complaint handling.
In response, AIT is investing in Portrait Response™ a powerful call handling solution
designed for fast, effective, auditable incident response and Portrait Resolve™, 
a case management and workflow module that initiates automated follow-up
processes to guide incidents and investigations through to conclusion. Both
integrate easily with all existing communications, databases and other critical
applications giving officers and civilians a single, complete view of any incident 
and all relevant data. They support fast decisions and ensure compliance with
police standard operating procedures. Resilience is built in as standard and service 
is continuous even during upgrades.
In addition to heightening officer and public safety, our solutions are highly flexible
and allow the police and other government agencies to add new processes and
capabilities as needed. For the first time, public services will be fully integrated 
and will therefore be able to track each contact through to completion, providing 
a single source for all relevant information and events.
T ogether with our partners Unisys and other influencers such as Intergraph, we
have begun the process of addressing the much larger US 911 and 311 market.
Portrait Public Services is a revolutionary
response management environment
designed to reduce the burden on the
world’s most mission critical command
centres while increasing the speed and
quality of response AIT Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 11
”AIT has been a strategic Unisys partner for two years and in that
time we have made significant headway in both new business
sales and in existing AIT and Unisys accounts. Our respective
strengths complement each other well. The domain expertise of
Unisys in the Financial Services and Emergency Services markets
and AIT's expertise as a leading global CIM vendor is the winning
combination to help our clients advance their business.”
Stephen Olyha, Vice President, 
Global CRM practice,Unisys
Case Study: Leading Police Force
■
Covers a population of 7 .2 million
■
Over 3,000 calls taken per day, 15 million per year
■
326 Police stations
■
3 separate call centres
■
New emergency and non-emergency contact handling
system demonstrates Portrait’s speed and reliability
■
Initial phase to go live this year
