 PORTRAIT SOFTWARE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
5
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Introduction
As highlighted by our new Chairman, this
year represents the second full year of
proﬁtable trading following the issues that
the Company faced in 2002. This is a very
encouraging indicator of the potential of the
Company to deliver future shareholder value.
It also represents the solidifying of a more
robust and secure business platform from
which to build the Company and launch 
new business initiatives.
We therefore have reported an operating 
proﬁt of £1.8 million on sales of £14.3
million for the year. Our Chief Financial
Officer, Matthew White, will provide more
detail on our ﬁnancial performance in his
Financial Review.
With the business in a healthier state it 
is particularly important to bring on board 
the right people who are best positioned 
to leverage the Company’s potential. 
I am therefore delighted to welcome John
O’Connell to the Board as Non Executive
Chairman and Robin Martin as our new,
sales orientated Chief Operating Officer. 
Both John and Robin were integral in
developing Staffware into one of the UK’s
leading Business Process Management
software companies, prior to its sale to 
Tibco in 2004. They will both bring vital
experience to our team as we seek to
become a much more product orientated
and international business.
I would also like to take this opportunity 
to thank Richard Hicks for his enormous
contribution to the Company since he
founded it 19 years ago. Richard has 
been an invaluable help to myself and our
Executive team since we embarked on the
turnaround in September 2002 and the
culture he has encouraged to develop 
within our business, in terms of technical
excellence and creative vision, will continue
to thrive and be the cornerstone for our
future success. Richard is resigning from 
the Board but will continue to be available 
to help our team as needed in the future.
Progress
In previous reports to shareholders, I have
mentioned that we viewed the turnaround 
of the business in three distinct phases. 
Phase 1 was the initial restructuring and 
re-organisation, including the integration 
of the IMA acquisition in the USA with the
original UK based activities. Phase 2 has
been all about stabilising the business and
returning the Company to proﬁtability. This
has been the main focus for myself and 
the management team over the course 
of the last two years. We have faced many
challenges in achieving this objective,
however I believe that we now have a 
much stronger business platform from 
which we can move with more conﬁdence
into the business development phase 3 
of our recovery program.
Commercial acceptance of Portrait
The key objective that we have set for
ourselves for the business development
phase is to exploit more fully and more
effectively the potential of our Portrait 
based technology and to return the
company, step by step, to a growth path.
In September 2002, Portrait was not yet
complete nor was it running in any demanding
customer interaction applications. Today we
have 13 Portrait customers, including our
largest reference site, Nationwide Building
Society (which has won yet more awards this
year) as well as a new and very mission
critical emergency call handling system. As 
a result of the success achieved with Portrait,
we are now more conﬁdent than ever that 
we have a powerful, cutting-edge technology,
which is capable of being used much more
extensively across a wide range of demanding
customer interaction applications in different 
market sectors internationally.
Nick Randall
Chief Executive Officer
“As highlighted in the
Chairman’s Statement,
perhaps the most
signiﬁcant event of the
year was the signing of 
a major new collaboration
agreement with Fiserv
CBS Worldwide, a division
of Fiserv, Inc.”
Nick Randall
Chief Executive Officer PORTRAIT SOFTWARE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
6
Strengthening our brand
Our conﬁdence in Portrait is reﬂected in the
recent change of the name of the combined
AIT and IMA business to Portrait Software
plc. The main purpose of the change is to
align our product branding with the company
name so that we can fully maximise the
potential of our new ‘Powered by Portrait™’
branding concept. The whole idea is to get
our Portrait brand more widely recognised
and accepted as the software platform of
choice by our target users. 
Our aim is for as many partners, OEM’s and
customers as possible to deploy the Portrait
platform in order to develop demanding,
process-centric, customer interaction
applications much more rapidly and
powerfully than by using conventional
development tools. The change of name
signals a new beginning for our company 
as we move forward into the next phase 
of our business development program.
Favourable market dynamics
In relation to the above it is worth spending
a little time on the approach to putting in
place Customer Interaction Management
systems. There are generally two ways in
which companies have historically implemented
a CIM solution. The ﬁrst is to buy a
‘conventional’ off the shelf, inﬂexible and
expensive CIM solution and try to ‘make 
it ﬁt’ to your requirements once installed.
Generally, this is unsatisfactory in its
performance, it is difficult and costly to
‘make it ﬁt’ and once installed, it is very
difficult to ‘uninstall’ it and switch to an
alternative. Consequently, many companies
ﬁnd themselves trapped with a rapidly more
obsolete and costly CIM solution. The other
alternative is to direct signiﬁcant corporate
resources to developing a solution from
scratch in-house. This may well mean that 
it does exactly what you want it to do but 
it is extremely expensive to build since it is
completely bespoke and, as such, so is 
all related development and maintenance. 
The market is therefore looking for an
answer to the downside associated with
these two approaches. The answer is
Portrait™. Our approach enables the creation
of tailored CIM solutions using our modular
building blocks or applications. This approach
is efficient, fast and ﬂexible. This is the
favourable dynamic in the market which
gives us conﬁdence that we will see
continued demand for our solutions. 
New strategic relationship with Fiserv
As highlighted in the Chairman’s Statement,
perhaps the most signiﬁcant event of the
year was the signing of a major new
collaboration agreement with Fiserv CBS
Worldwide, a division of Fiserv, Inc. We have
enjoyed a long-standing relationship with
Fiserv, however the new agreement enables
us to partner in a much broader way. Fiserv
is developing a range of products under its
own brand for the banking and ﬁnancial
services sector which will be ‘powered by
Portrait™’. We have been working with
Fiserv’s product development, marketing 
and sales teams and a few of our staff have
transferred to Fiserv as part of the product
development process. We will receive an 
ongoing royalty of all future sales of these
products. Initial products have already been
launched and their ﬁrst beta customer has
now gone live successfully.
I am convinced that this new agreement
represents a major step forward in terms 
of our ability to access the international
ﬁnancial services market through partnerships.
New divisional structure
During the year, we formed the Company
into three very focused divisions. The purpose
of this re-alignment was to ensure that we
had dedicated teams working towards our
speciﬁc strategic objectives for each area
which I am pleased to detail as follows.
Platform Division
Our Platform Division is now responsible for
the ongoing development of our Application
Platform Suite, which we now call Portrait
Foundation™. This team has been working
with a number of key partners (including
Fiserv CBS Worldwide) who wish to use 
our software platform to accelerate the
development of complex customer
interaction software. Our platform is based
on the Microsoft .NET architecture and we
believe that more and more products will 
be built using Portrait™ for two key reasons.  PORTRAIT SOFTWARE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
7
Firstly, because it is much more efficient 
to develop applications using our platform
(typically two to three times faster) but
perhaps most importantly, the products built
using Portrait Foundation™ have at their
centre our ﬂexible Business Process Engine,
which allows the customer to quickly change 
and improve processes. Our new market
positioning is that we allow our users to
develop living (rather than static) applications,
which is a vital aspect for all fast moving and
complex business to consumer processes.
You will ﬁnd more information on the
importance of ‘living applications’ further 
on in this report.
Applications Division
Our new Applications Division focuses on
developing innovative solutions using the key
differentiation enabled by our core software
for the ﬁnancial services and public safety
markets. During the year we focused
speciﬁcally, through partners, on developing
and selling solutions for critical emergency
call handling, insurance and compliance.
Client Services Division
Our Client Services Division has been formed
to focus on providing a high level of support
to our existing 150 plus customers who are
increasingly international. Our customer 
base have been extremely loyal users of our
products over the past three years and we
now have a dedicated team who provide
software support as well as services to our
customer community worldwide. A key aim
for this group is to provide a roadmap for our
existing customers so that they can start to
use some of the major beneﬁts associated
with our new Portrait architecture but without
the costs associated with re-developing
processes built in previous versions of our
products. To achieve this, during the year 
we developed a Gateway product, enabling
existing Edge users to access our new
architecture so that they can start to use 
our ﬂexible Business Process Engine and
have access, in a very effective way, to the
beneﬁt of our web services structure. Our
ﬁrst customer went live last year and we
hope to work with an increasing number 
of users who wish to adopt this approach.
Typically in our industry, customers have
bought software and spent considerable
sums developing applications that are then
wasted when new architecture is purchased.
Our aim is to allow our family of customers
to continue to use existing applications that
they like, whilst having the ability to gradually
move in a low cost manner to our next
generation Portrait software platform. 
The above changes have been far reaching
within our organisation and I would like to
take this opportunity to thank all our staff
for the enthusiastic way they have responded
to the major changes over the past two
years and for their hard work, talent 
and commitment.
New Business 
In the ﬁrst quarter of ﬁnancial year 2006
we signed our ﬁrst order for Portrait
Software with the China Automobile
Association (CAA), who have recently 
been purchased by IAG, one of the world’s
largest insurance companies. We plan to
work with Ultrapower, who are a leading
Chinese Microsoft software partner, to help
develop a leading Portrait based sales and
service platform to enable CAA to both
provide the usual breakdown services 
to their 10 million customers as well as
providing a platform for insurance and
other product sales initiatives. We plan 
to work with Ultrapower to develop other
opportunities in the rapidly developing
ﬁnancial services market in China.
The signiﬁcance of this business win 
and others is that it is evidence of the 
true potential of our product in terms of
ﬂexibility, functionality, modularity, and
importantly, scalability. These are extremely
important attributes that are highly valued
and required by our customers. I look
forward to continued success based on
these important competitive advantages. 
Outlook
The past two years have been challenging
and as ever there remain further challenges
ahead of us. However, I feel that the most
difficult issues are now behind us. With 
the right team on board, a solid ﬁnancial
structure, and a clear business strategy 
I believe we have now ‘steadied the ship’ 
in advance of the next phase of our
development. With a focus on products 
and partnership, I believe we are now 
well positioned to take advantage of 
the opportunities presented to us in 
an expanding market.
Nick Randall
Chief Executive Officer
2 August 2005
OUR STRUCTURE
The Company has three business
units that respond to market
needs and opportunities.
PLATFORM DIVISION
This division sells Portrait Foundation™
(Application Platform Suite) to
Independent Software Vendors and
Business Process Outsourcers to 
enable them to build packaged 
business applications for their own
markets ‘powered by Portrait™’.
APPLICATIONS DIVISION
This division sells business solutions
solving speciﬁc business needs in
ﬁnancial services, emergency services
and compliance. These applications 
are all developed with Partners using 
the Portrait Foundation™ platform
CLIENT SERVICES DIVISION
This division supports and develops 
our 150+ customers and where
possible enhances their existing
solutions through our Extend and 
Evolve program.
Robin Martin
Chief Operating Officer
