 8 - Poundland Group plc Annual report and financial statements for p/e 30 March 2014
“
We have achieved another record profit 
performance across the Group, with our store 
opening programme on track, underlying profits 
in line with market consensus and good cash 
generation.
”
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
2014 was a very important year for Poundland.  We 
opened our 500th store in November, listed on the London 
Stock Exchange in March and achieved sales of nearly £1 
billion. Demand for shares in Poundland was high and the 
offer was more than 15 times oversubscribed. The flotation 
has been well received.  
Against a backdrop of continuing difficulties in the 
economy for consumers, and retailers in particular, 
Poundland has stood firm in offering its customers 
amazing value.  We believe, as the economy begins its 
turnaround, our future prospects are even brighter, with 
Poundland having become a retailer of choice. 
Our successful international expansion into the Republic 
of Ireland under the Dealz brand has continued. Our sales 
are growing strongly. Expansion of the Dealz brand into 
continental Europe is an exciting prospect and we are 
planning a small number of trial stores in Spain in the year 
ahead.
Andrew Higginson 
Chairman 
2 July 2014
Trading Performance
This has been another record year for Poundland with total sales 
just short of £1 billion, up 13.3% on the previous year and the total 
number of 70 net new stores opened during the year bringing the 
total estate to 528 at the year end. Between the end of the year and 
the date of this Report we have opened a further 12 stores.
Further details of the Trading Performance are given in the Chief 
Financial Officer’s Report beginning on page 14.
Stock Exchange Listing
Poundland Group plc completed its premium listing on the London 
Stock Exchange and was admitted to the Main Market on 17 
March 2014. The IPO was very successful, being many times 
oversubscribed and the shares continue to trade at a level above 
the initial issue price of 300p.
The Board and Corporate Governance 
I firmly believe that we have a high calibre and experienced Board 
of Directors who will continue to drive the Company to an even 
more successful future. In addition to Chief Executive Officer, Jim 
McCarthy, Chief Financial Officer, Nick Hateley and Trading and 
Marketing Director, Richard Lancaster, I was delighted to announce 
earlier in the year that we had four new independent Non-
Executives joining the team.  All four Non-Executives bring a wealth 
of experience to the Board. Darren Shapland as Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director;  Trevor Bond as Chair of the Audit and Risk 
Committee; Tea Colaianni as Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
and Grant Hearn  as Chair of the Governance and Nominations 
Committee.
Full details of the Committees and their duties are contained in the 
Corporate Governance Report beginning on page 32 and the reports 
from the Audit and Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee 
beginning on pages 35 and 38 respectively. We believe these 
Non Executives will enhance the diversity of the board and bring 
independent judgements on issues of strategy and performance as 
we go forward as a plc. 
Andrew Higginson - Chairman Introduction Strategy Governance Financials
Poundland Group plc Annual report and financial statements for p/e 30 March 2014 - 9
We also have the benefit of the considerable expertise of Paul Best 
and Stephen Coates who continue on the Board as the appointed 
representatives of Warburg Pincus. The combined experience and 
the insight of the Executive Directors, the Non-Executive Directors 
and highly talented and experienced Executive Team will be 
invaluable to the Board.
Full details of the Directors and their memberships of the Board’s 
standing committees can be seen on pages 26 to 27.
Our People
I know that I speak for the whole Board when I say that I am 
immensely proud of our management teams and colleagues across 
the business whether in our stores, distribution centres or the 
Customer Support Centre, for the dedication that they have shown 
and continue to show to the Company and the great service that 
they give to our customers. It has been their hard work which has 
enabled the Company to successfully list on the Stock Market and it 
is their continued hard work which will ensure our future success.
Outlook
Poundland delivers amazing value to our customers every day and, 
as a result of the support from our customers, we have achieved 
another record profit performance across the Group, with our store 
opening programme on track, underlying profits in line with market 
consensus and good cash generation. Looking ahead, we will 
continue to manage the business tightly while investing in clear 
opportunities for future growth and are confident in making further 
progress in the new financial year.
With regard to dividend, as noted in the Prospectus issued to 
prospective Shareholders prior to listing, subject to sufficient 
distributable reserves being available, the Directors intend that the 
first dividend to be declared by the Company will be the interim 
dividend in respect of the first half of the 2015 financial year, which 
is expected to be paid in January 2015.
Our customers
Average customer spend per transaction
£4.55 +2.5%
Average of
4.9m  +11.4% transactions per week
Average store serves circa
10,000 customers per week
