 10 - Poundland Group plc Annual report and financial statements for p/e 30 March 2014
“
Shopping in the value sector is 
now worn as a badge of honour with a 
sense of pride for those who realise it is 
sensible to save money.
”
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
Overview
Poundland started trading from its first store at Burton-upon-
Trent in 1990. Since then, the business has expanded rapidly and 
now serves approximately 5 million value conscious customers 
every week from over 500 stores across the UK and Ireland. The 
Poundland retail proposition is simple and compelling, based on 
selling over 2,000 general merchandise products and over 1,000 
mainly branded FMCG goods at the single price point of just £1. 
Our admission to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange 
in March 2014 marked a significant milestone in the Company’s 
development and is testament to the growth and performance of 
the business that has been providing amazing value to shoppers for 
nearly a quarter of a century.
We have a track record of delivering strong profitable growth and 
believe we have significant future opportunities through the delivery 
of amazing value every day to millions of discerning customers. 
This is underpinned by our trusted brands, differentiated value 
proposition, strong supplier relationships and our well-invested and 
scalable infrastructure.
In recent years there has been significant structural change in the 
UK’s retail market with the value sector becoming a mainstream 
feature.  As the UK’s single price market leader, Poundland has been 
instrumental in that change. Our £1 price point and our amazing 
value appeal to an increasingly broad section of shoppers, with 
nearly a quarter of our UK customers now coming from the more 
affluent AB demographic.
I am pleased to report another record year for Poundland with 
significant sales and profit growth together with a strong new 
store opening programme. I thank all of our colleagues throughout 
the Company for their commitment, hard work and dedication in 
delivering our strong performance. We are also indebted to our large 
and loyal customer base who continue to find Poundland’s amazing 
value and single £1 price point helpful in providing certainty in their 
household budgeting. This has been especially important in the 
purchase of everyday essential products that have become even 
more important to consumers during the economic turbulence of 
recent years.
In September 2011, Poundland successfully entered the Republic of 
Ireland under the “Dealz” brand where we sell the vast majority of 
products for a1.49. Our Dealz stores in Ireland became profitable 
in their first full year and, at the 2014 year end, we were operating 
from 31 Dealz stores in Ireland and 2 further stores on the Isle 
of Man and Orkney. We intend to further strengthen our market 
presence with additional openings during the coming year. The 
Republic of Ireland and Isle of Man delivered sales of £59.6 million 
during the year, representing 6% of our Group sales. 
We have continued to expand our presence in the UK and Republic 
of Ireland with the opening of 70 net new stores, taking our overall 
estate to 528 stores, with our total trading space expanding by 
18.9%.
Our entry into Ireland under the Dealz brand demonstrates that we 
are not only capable of generating attractive financial returns but, 
also of rapidly establishing a successful brand in a new geography. 
Consequently, as previously advised, Poundland will following 
extensive market research later this year trial the Dealz format 
in Spain with preparations well advanced for our low cost, low 
risk entry. Once this is successfully established we will continue 
to research the opportunities to extend into additional European 
countries and will tailor our offer appropriately to local markets. 
What is clear to us is that consumers across the globe increasingly 
appreciate and understand value for money and we are confident 
that Continental Europe offers the Group substantial future growth 
opportunities. 
The continuing expansion of our retail estate within the United 
Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland and, shortly, in Spain has led us 
to invest in a third purpose built 350,000 square foot distribution 
centre at Harlow which will open later in the year, replacing 
the 200,000 square foot temporary facility at Hoddesdon.  The 
adjacency of the new site enables us to transfer the majority of 
existing experienced colleagues to the new operation.  
Jim McCarthy - Chief Executive Officer Introduction Strategy Governance Financials
Poundland Group plc Annual report and financial statements for p/e 30 March 2014 - 11
Performance
Poundland’s goal remains clear; to offer amazing value to our 
customers every day. This has never been more relevant, with 
Poundland perfectly positioned to continue to meet the needs of 
value conscious consumers throughout the UK and Ireland.
Over the year, our trading performance has been strong with 
sales and underlying EBITDA at record levels. We continue to 
tailor our broad offer based on consumer research, innovation 
and creativity. We now serve around five million customers each 
week with research demonstrating that Poundland customers are 
from an increasingly broad spectrum of socio-economic groups. 
We believe that the Poundland brand has universal appeal and it is 
likely that more and more consumers will use the value sector as 
an increasingly important part of their shopping repertoire. Clearly 
shopping in the value sector is now worn as a badge of honour with 
a sense of pride for those who realise it is sensible to save money.
Managing cost pressures as a fixed single price retailer is a key 
element in our DNA and is a critical component in delivering 
our goal of offering amazing value every day to our customers. 
Poundland has, for nearly a quarter of a century, successfully 
managed its gross margin through a wide variety of economic 
circumstances, competition and many other challenges, including 
significant VAT increases. I am pleased to report that the gross 
margin percentage we achieved in the financial year to 30 March 
2014 was 36.93%, broadly in line with the previous year.
Furthermore, our business continues to remain well invested and 
I am delighted to report that, once again, through sales growth 
and careful cost control we have reduced our operating costs as 
a percentage of sales when compared to the prior year whilst 
continuing to invest in growth.
The continuing appeal of our unique fixed single price point retail 
proposition remains strong. We enjoyed record Christmas sales, 
in both the UK and Republic of Ireland, serving over 7 million 
customers during the peak Christmas week. Our central Supply 
Chain team, including distribution centres and transport, delivered 
a record breaking 2 million cases to Poundland and Dealz stores 
in the same week, ensuring that our store teams could satisfy the 
purchasing requirements of our value savvy customers.
The Poundland and Dealz brands continue to strengthen, and are 
recognised and well regarded. Our strong growth in new store 
openings has once again increased the visibility of our brand, 
which has been further enhanced by our growing number of social 
media followers on sites including Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest 
and the Poundland Blog. We continue to develop the soon to be 
transactional Poundland website, www.poundland.co.uk.
Sourcing
We are proud that on a value basis over 80% of our products are 
sourced through UK suppliers. However, wherever necessary we 
have the ability to source and develop products on a global basis. 
Therefore, our Far and Near East operations based in Hong Kong 
and New Delhi continue to be an important part of our sourcing 
strategy. We continue to strengthen our teams in both these 
locations, especially in the areas of new product development, 
quality assurance and quality control. We aim to buy and sell our 
products responsibly and ask all our suppliers to comply with 
our clear social and ethical accountability policy. This gives our 
customers confidence that everything they buy from us is produced 
under fair conditions.
Our already good UK vendor relationships continue to improve and 
an overwhelming number of primary manufacturers supply us on a 
direct basis. Major manufacturers of branded products increasingly 
recognise the significance of Poundland and the wider value sector 
to consumers together with the outstanding growth opportunity that 
is offered to them to expand their brand reach and increase profits. 
Top brands are naturally very important to our customers and 
securing continuity of supply through these direct channels allows 
us to increase sales through improved availability and differentiate 
our offer from other single price competitors. We continue to 
recognise the relevance of secondary and tertiary suppliers who 
enjoy long-term relationships with the growing Poundland brand.  
All of our supplier partners remain important to the delivery of our 
overall offer. In addition we have continued to develop our own label 
ranges and the year saw the launch of healthy snack and indulgent 
nut ranges which delivered stellar numbers. We shall continue to 
take advantage of gaps in the market for own label ranges that 
deliver value through quality and value at the amazing £1 price 
point.
Colleagues
Our achievements would not be possible without our colleagues 
and I am immensely proud of their commitment and passion 
in delivering amazing value every day. We are proud of our  12 - Poundland Group plc Annual report and financial statements for p/e 30 March 2014
diverse colleague base and support the investment in meeting the 
development and training needs of our 12,000 plus colleagues 
through a detailed training programme, more details of which are set 
out on page 25. Having progressed personally from the shop floor to 
the Board, there is nothing quite like the pride I feel when colleagues 
choose Poundland for their career development and successfully 
progress through the Company.
I am also proud that our colleagues have once again demonstrated 
that they operate at the heart of their local communities. Macmillan 
Cancer Care has, for the fifth consecutive year, been voted by our 
colleagues as their chosen charity. This partnership has worked 
well and has provided an easy way for our caring customers and 
colleagues to support Macmillan. Donations have now exceeded £1 
million with money being raised through a number of different events, 
including the London Marathon, product sample sales and numerous 
themed fundraising events including dress down days and coffee 
mornings in Poundland stores, distribution centres and our Customer 
Support Centre. 
In our Republic of Ireland Dealz stores we support “Make-A-Wish” 
as our chosen charity. Make-A-Wish has one simple aim, to grant 
the wishes of children and young people living with life-threatening 
medical conditions.
Following Admission in March 2014, Poundland has introduced three 
new employee share plans; the Poundland Performance Share Plan, 
the Poundland Restricted Share Plan and the Poundland Company 
Share Option Plan. We will also be introducing the Poundland Save As 
You Earn Plan for eligible colleagues later this year. Details of the plans 
are contained in the Directors’ Remuneration Report starting on page 
38 of this report.
Store portfolio
We commenced the year operating from 458 stores. The Group 
opened a net 70 stores during the year, and at the year-end we 
operated from 495 Poundland locations, 31 Dealz stores in the 
Republic of Ireland and 2 Dealz stores on the Isle of Man and Orkney, 
making the year-end total 528. I am delighted that our store growth 
programme over the last 2 years has created even more opportunities 
for new colleagues to join us, which in time has enabled us to 
bring the Poundland and Dealz retail proposition to thousands more 
customers every day.
Our new store selection process includes detailed internal 
analysis and input from various consultants to help determine site 
longevity and thus the long term profit opportunity by location. The 
overwhelming number of new stores are acquired under normal 
commercial arrangements with property landlords; typically ten 
year leases with monthly rent payments. However, under certain 
opportunistic circumstances we are prepared to enter into short term 
lease arrangements with landlords that deliver attractive returns 
without long-term liabilities. At the end of the period we operated 26 
stores on such short-term leases. 
Outlook
Clearly there are two types of consumer; those who need to shop 
for value and increasingly, those who choose to shop for value. Our 
goal is to provide amazing value every day and we are therefore 
perfectly positioned to meet demand from both types of consumer. Our 
strong sales and volume increases demonstrate the relevance of our 
proposition to consumers from all socio economic groups.
Manufacturers recognise the increased demand for value and are 
working hard to deliver products that meet these requirements. 
Many forward thinking suppliers are also changing their sales, 
account structures and supply chains to adapt to these changes. This 
complements Poundland and the discount sector as a whole and, 
more importantly, is in the best interests of the consumer. We will 
continue to work with our supplier partners to bring amazing value, 
brands, new products and innovation to our customers. 
Poundland remains fully committed to our single price point in the UK. 
We will continue to develop our multi-price Dealz format outside the 
UK.
Due to our strong pipeline of new stores we expect to deliver the 
unique Poundland retail proposition to circa three quarters of a million 
consumers each week by the end of the current financial year. We are 
planning to open at least 60 net new stores during the next financial 
year, including a number of new Dealz stores in Ireland and Spain.  As 
a result, we estimate that we will create a net 1,000 new jobs.
Trading in the first three months of the new fiscal year has been 
strong as our retail proposition continues to gain traction through 
offering amazing value to savvy consumers. Our single price point 
continues to help consumers plan their household budgets with 
certainty and confidence. Our programme of new store openings, 
international expansion and continuing productivity improvements 
are all key drivers of growth. Additionally, while the economy, and 
thus consumer confidence, is improving, we believe the shopping 
behaviours adopted during the last five or six years will remain, and 
that consequently we will further benefit from increased footfall and 
discretionary spending.  We expect the Poundland Group to continue to 
perform well over the forthcoming year.
On behalf of the Poundland Board I thank all of our colleagues 
throughout the company that work so hard and tirelessly to deliver the 
unique shopping experience that allows us to deliver amazing value to 
our customers every day, every week, every month and every year.
We also take this opportunity to thank all of our supplier partners in 
the UK and abroad for their invaluable help in providing products and 
services that are essential in maintaining our reputation for creating 
the unique Poundland and Dealz shopping experience. 
I look forward to the future with confidence.
Jim McCarthy
Chief Executive Officer
2 July 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW continued Introduction Strategy Governance Financials
Poundland Group plc Annual report and financial statements for p/e 30 March 2014 - 13
