 Our business Governance Group
accounts
Company
accounts
Other
information
“Porvair’s strategic direction and operating
objectives have remained consistent for several
years. In the five years since 2007 , revenue has
grown by 68% (11% CAGR).”
Overview
Porvair continued to make progress towards
its financial and strategic objectives in 2012,
thereby enhancing its prospects for 2013.
Revenues grew to £76.5 million and profit
before tax increased to £6.3 million. These are
record results for the Group. Cash generated
from operations increased to £9.2 million 
and net debt reduced to £3.9 million after
spending £3.3 million on acquisitions. The
Metals Filtration division increased revenues by
8% to £28.0 million (2011: £25.9 million). The
Microfiltration division increased revenues by
15% to £48.5 million (2011: £42.2 million).
Porvair’s strategic direction and operating
objectives have remained consistent for several
years. In the five years since 2007, revenue has
grown by 68% (11% CAGR); over £35 million
has been generated in cash from operations;
and in 2012 the Group’s after tax operating
profit return on operating capital was 30%.
Progress made against the Group’s strategic
objectives in 2012 include:
Metals Filtration:
• Delivery of further revenue and margin
growth, as the benefits of new product
development and production streamlining
show through.
• Trials of the next generation of filter products,
which were successful, with initial trial 
orders received.
• Expansion of capabilities in the plant 
in China.
• A small technology acquisition (Pell) was 
fully integrated.
Microfiltration:
• 20% growth in aviation driven by long term
supply contracts for both new build and
after-market.
• First shipments of the POSCO contract.
Further shipments are expected in 2013. 
• An £11.3 million contract with the UK 
government for nuclear remediation signed
in January 2013.
• Strong underlying growth in the division’s 
US operation.
• 13% growth at Seal Analytical, helped 
by two small acquisitions, both now fully
integrated.
Porvair’s activities and strategy
Porvair specialises in filtration and related
environmental technology. The Group has two
divisions. The Microfiltration division principally
serves aviation, environmental laboratory and
energy markets. The Metals Filtration division
serves global aluminium, NAFTA iron foundry
and super-alloy markets. These are niche
markets which have clear structural drivers 
of growth. Over 80% of sales are from
consumable products for which replacement
sales recur at regular intervals.
The Group manufactures in the UK, US,
Germany and China.
Porvair’s strategy for growth and the creation
of sustainable shareholder value is to:
Develop filtration and environmental technology
positions in markets where typically:
• specialist design or engineering skills win
business;
• regulation or quality accreditation
requirements mandate product use;
• consumable products, which protect more
costly downstream components, are often
replaced as part of a maintenance routine;
• products, once designed into a specification,
have long lifecycles.
Focus on selected markets which have 
good long term growth prospects and are
fundamentally cash generative: aviation,
energy & industrial, environmental laboratory
supplies and aluminium filtration.
Invest consistently in new product
development. 
Expand geographically, where appropriate, 
in our chosen markets.
Use surplus cash to acquire complementary
businesses that meet Group financial and
commercial criteria.
Generate sufficient cash to sustain a
progressive dividend policy and maintain 
an appropriately funded balance sheet.
Ben Stocks
Group Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s report
07 | Porvair plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Summary performance
• Consistent strategic direction 
• Strong financial performance:
– revenue up 12%
– profit before tax up 40% 
• 30% return on operating
capital
Our business Governance Group
accounts
Company
accounts
Other
information
Financial highlights 2012
2012 2011
£m £m Growth %
Revenue 76.5 68.1 12%
Proﬁt before tax 6.3 4.5 40%
Cash generated from 
operations 9.2 8.1 13%
Net debt (3.9) (5.1) 24%
07 | Porvair plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Our business Governance Group
accounts
Company
accounts
Other
information Chief Executive’s report continued
08 | Porvair plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Operating review
Divisional performance – Metals Filtration
Revenues increased by 8% and operating
profits grew 63%. Cash generated from
operations was £4.8 million (2011: £1.7 million).
These are record results for Metals Filtration.
The division’s improved performance is driven
by both margin and market share growth,
chiefly from three patented products
introduced in recent years: Selee CSX™ 
for aluminium filtration; Selee SA™ for NiCo
alloy filtration; and Selee IC™ for the filtration
of gray and ductile iron. All three are fully
accepted by our customer base to whom they
offer either a better environmental solution, or
better filtration efficiency, or both. These are
steadily being introduced to new customers
and are winning market share as a result.
These new products contribute better margins
to the business and enable manufacturing to
be streamlined in the USA. They also enable
the division to work on input costs and
operating efficiencies, where steady incremental
improvements have been made since 2010.
The division ran at high levels of production
efficiency and customer service during 2012.
After a highly cash generative year, with
operating profit conversion to cash of 200%,
we expect to make several investments in the
division in 2013. As noted at the half year, we
have started a new cycle of investment in
facilities, plant and people in China, part of a
settled strategy for the division that will pursue
opportunities in certain niche markets in Asia.
We will also be investing in the next generation
of new products to be made in the USA. 
Pell Industries was acquired during the year.
This was a small acquisition that has been 
fully integrated with no additional overhead.
The Pell process is novel and results in
products with longer lifecycles than
competitive materials. We have started to
incorporate this know-how into our wider
product range and are seeing sales
opportunities as a result.
The division had a strong first half of 2012 
with robust demand from most end markets,
notably aluminium production, super-alloys for
turbine blades and a strong US car and light
truck market. Sales rates settled marginally
lower in the third quarter and have been
steady at these levels since. The Board
expects demand to remain at these lower
levels throughout 2013, with the impact
mitigated by business development 
opportunities. These are in two areas: margin
improvement through work on the introduction
of innovative raw materials that offer product
improvements and range extensions; and
market share gains from an entirely new
design of filter for which initial trial orders 
have been received. We will continue to refine
and test these development opportunities
throughout 2013.
Divisional performance – Microfiltration
Revenue from Microfiltration grew by 15% 
and operating profits grew by 19%. These are
record results for the Microfiltration division.
There are two principal businesses in this
division: the Porvair Filtration Group (“PFG”)
and Seal Analytical (“Seal”).
PFG had another good year. Revenue growth
was 17%. Stripping out the first shipment of
the POSCO contract, underlying revenue
growth was 5%.
The POSCO contract, announced at the end
of 2011, is a US$10 million+ contract to
design and build a char filtration system for 
a coal to substitute natural gas installation
being built by POSCO at Gwangyang, South
Korea. The design and build phase has gone
according to plan and first deliveries were
made in November 2012. Further deliveries will
be made during 2013. The financial impact of
the contract will be spread over several years.
Metals Filtration
Divisional Highlights 2012
• Record results 
• £4.8 million operating 
cash generated 
• Steady market share gains
from patented products
• Pell acquisition – promising
know-how
• Further new products being
refined and tested
• Continuous improvement 
in plant efficiencies
Annual sales 
£28.0m
Metals Filtration annual sales 
grew to £28.0 million.
Revenue growth 
+8%
Metals Filtration revenue up 8%. 
Financial highlights 2012
2012 2011
£m £m Growth %
Revenue 28.0 25.9 8%
Operating proﬁt 2.4 1.5 63%
Financial highlights 2012
2012 2011
£m £m Growth %
Revenue 48.5 42.2 15%
Operating proﬁt 6.7 5.6 19% Our business Governance Group
accounts
Company
accounts
Other
information
09 | Porvair plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Driving market growth: Aviation
+20%
Aerospace revenue grew by 20%. Long term supply
contracts for inerting filters and coolant systems are
driving growth.
Value creation in action:
The Group is a leading specialist in the design and manufacture 
of filtration components and assemblies for the aviation industry.
Its components are specified on most of the world’s passenger
airlines in fuel systems, hydraulic systems and coolant systems.
 Our business Governance Group
accounts
Company
accounts
Other
information Chief Executive’s report continued
10 | Porvair plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Microfiltration
Divisional Highlights 2012
• Record results 
• PFG up 17% 
(underlying growth 5%) 
• Seal Analytical up 13%
(acquisitions fully integrated)
• Aviation up 20% with broad
spread of filtration
applications
• POSCO first shipments
• £11.3 million UK Government
nuclear remediation contract
• PFG inc: strong underlying
growth
Annual sales 
£48.5m
Microfiltration annual sales grew
to £48.5 million.
Revenue growth 
+15%
Microfiltration revenue up15%.
Demand from elsewhere in the energy sector
has been robust in 2012 and the pipeline of
projects is encouraging. Early in 2013 an
£11.3 million contract was signed with the 
UK government for the supply of nuclear
remediation filtration equipment. The financial
impact of this work will be spread over three
years from 2013.
Aerospace revenues grew 20% in the year.
Porvair’s aviation filters are specified on almost
all commercial airframes. Around one third of
our sales are to the commercial wide-bodied
sector (Boeing and Airbus), with the remainder
split between commercial narrow body,
regional, business and rotary airframes and
engines. Our filters are used roughly equally for
new build and after-market purposes. Long
term supply contracts for inerting and coolant
filters, both previously announced, continue to
drive growth. Porvair was specified onto the
Airbus NEO programme in 2012 and expects
to see sales growth from the Airbus A350 later
in 2013.
Sales of bioscience filters also grew steadily.  
A series of improvements have been made in
the Group’s bioscience filtration capabilities in
recent years, and these are showing positive
results. A patent has now been awarded for
the Chromatrap™ range, which remains
modest in scale but continues its promising
commercial development.
Underlying revenues at PFG Inc, based in the
USA, grew strongly. This operation is steadily
increasing its engineering and manufacturing
capabilities and the results are evident. We see
further opportunities in the US in 2013.
Growth in energy, aviation, bioscience and the
US was partially offset by loss of revenue from
the closure of a small UK plant in 2011, and in
flat or declining sales into certain EU and
general industrial end markets.
Revenues at Seal grew 13%, helped by two
acquisitions. As reported at the interim stage,
weakness in several western European
markets was offset by an improvement in 
US demand. The Board’s view is that water
quality testing is a well defined niche market
that will grow as water quality standards
improve across the world. Seal is a market
leading supplier of equipment and
consumables for the detection of inorganic
contamination in water.
The two acquisitions in the year have
improved Seal’s consumables and service
capabilities. A line of block digesters and
related consumables are now being
manufactured in Seal’s US operation, having
been moved from Australia following the
acquisition of the Block Digester business 
from AIM Lab Automation Technologies Pty
Limited.  Sales in the year were well ahead 
of expectation. The business of Pulse
Instrumentation (“Pulse”) was acquired and
relocated from Canada to Seal’s US operation.
Pulse supplies a broad range of consumables
for environmental laboratories and brings with
it some interesting production know-how and
access to a wider installed base.
Following previous product launches in 2010
and 2011, Seal introduced a third new
platform in 2012, the Quaatro 39. To follow
this, in December 2012, Seal acquired the
design and manufacturing rights to a range of
discrete water analysers which, combined with
Seal’s existing know-how, will greatly improve
the speed and scope of product development
in the discrete analyser segment. This is also
being transferred to Seal’s US base, as part of
our strategy to broaden Seal’s capabilities in
the water analysis market.
Earnings per share, financing 
and dividends
Basic earnings per share were 10.1 pence
(2011: 7.3 pence), an increase of 38%.
Cash generated from operations was 
£9.2 million (2011: £8.1 million). After interest
and tax, net cash generated from operating
activities was £7.4 million (2011: £6.4 million).
At 30 November 2012 net debt was £3.9
million (2011: £5.1 million) after spending 
£3.3 million in cash on acquisitions during 
the year.
The Directors recommend an improved final
dividend of 1.6 pence per share (2011: 1.4
pence), making the full year dividend 2.6
pence per share (2011: 2.4 pence).
Ben Stocks
Group Chief Executive
25 January 2013 Our business Governance Group
accounts
Company
accounts
Other
information
11 | Porvair plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Driving market growth: Energy and industrial process
US$10+m
The first shipments were made under the US$10+ million
contract to supply a gasification filtration system being
built by POSCO in South Korea.
Value creation in action:
The Group provides filtration solutions for energy and industrial
process applications. Its filters are to be found in many of the
harshest and most critical industrial environments. Applications 
are as diverse as the clean-up of streams of high temperature 
gas to the containment of waste nuclear material.
 Our business Governance Group
accounts
Company
accounts
Other
information
