 Introduction
I	 am	 delighted	 to	 report	 another	 record-breaking	 year	 of	 strong	 growth	 for	 the	 Group.	 In	 the	 twelve	 months	 to	 30	 June	 2007,	 our	 Group	 has	 achieved	 growth	 in	 revenues,	 profits	 and	 earnings	 per	 share.
Results
Group	 revenue	 for	 the	 year	 increased	 by	 12%	 to	 £23.0	 million	 (2006:	 £20.5	 million).	 EBITDA	 before	 exceptional	 items	 increased	 by	 18%	 to	 £8.4	 million	 whilst	 operating	 profit	 before	 exceptional	 items	 increased	 by	 24%	 to	 £6.1	 million.
For	 the	 first	 time,	 the	 financial	 statements	 have	 been	 prepared	 under	 International	 Financial	 Reporting	 Standards	 (IFRSs).	 A	 detailed	 explanation	 of	 the	 changes	 made	 and	 reconciliations	 from	 our	 previously	 published	 	 UK	 GAAP	 information	 is	 given	 in	 note	 30.
Dividends
Given	 the	 continued	 high	 levels	 of	 cash	 generation	 from	 operating	 activities	 and	 overall	 strong	 performance	 of	 the	 Group,	 your	 Board	 is	 recommending	 the	 payment	 of	 a	 final	 dividend	 for	 the	 year	 of	 1.1p	 (2006:	 0.75p),	 up	 47%.	 	 The	 dividend,	 if	 approved,	 will	 be	 paid	 on	 	 3	 December	 2007	 to	 shareholders	 on	 the	 register	 at	 the	 close	 of	 business	 on	 9	 November	 2007.
Leading Position and Innovative Approach
Powerleague	 continues	 to	 lead	 the	 5-a-side	 football	 market,	 and	 currently	 operates	 37	 purpose-built	 centres	 across	 the	 UK.	 We	 have	 continued	 with	 our	 strategy	 of	 extending	 our	 footprint	 of	 centres	 in	 the	 UK	 and	 since	 the	 year	 end	 have	 opened	 in	 Milton	 Keynes,	 Cardiff	 and	 a	 further	 centre	 in	 the	 City	 of	 London.	 The	 new	 City	 I	 am	 delighted	 to	 report	 another	 record-breaking	 year	 of	 strong	 growth	 for	 the	 Group.	 In	 the	 twelve	 months	 to	 30	 June	 2007 ,	 our	 Group	 has	 achieved	 growth	 in	 revenues,	 profits	 and	 earnings	 per	 share.
Chairman’s Statement
of	 London	 centre	 is	 worthy	 of	 special	 mention	 	 as	 we	 have	 converted	 railway	 arches	 and	 created	 a	 unique	 indoor	 facility.	 We	 are	 on	 schedule	 to	 open	 further	 centres	 in	 the	 current	 financial	 year	 which	 will	 extend	 our	 dominance	 of	 the	 premium	 commercial	 5-a-side	 market.
Our	 sponsorship	 and	 events	 revenues	 have	 grown	 significantly	 during	 the	 period,	 increasing	 by	 over	 40%	 year	 on	 year.	 This	 reflects	 the	 continued	 development	 and	 strength	 of	 the	 Powerleague	 brand,	 and	 the	 Group’s	 ability	 to	 attract	 and	 work	 closely	 with	 global	 brands	 which	 are	 excited	 by	 both	 our	 target	 market	 and	 grass-roots	 football	 	 in	 the	 United	 Kingdom.
Development Programme
As	 the	 first	 organisation	 to	 forge	 ties	 with	 the	 education	 sector	 to	 develop	 5-a-side	 centres,	 our	 latest	 openings	 further	 reinforce	 this	 special	 partnership	 approach.	 Both	 the	 Milton	 Keynes	 and	 Cardiff	 centres	 have	 been	 developed	 with	 schools.	 This	 ‘win-win’	 formula	 provides	 the	 schools	 with	 top	 quality	 facilities	 for	 use	 during	 the	 day	 and	 Powerleague	 with	 superbly	 located	 centres	 for	 commercial	 use	 in	 the	 evenings	 and	 at	 weekends.	 We	 now	 have	 twelve	 centres	 developed	 within	 this	 sector.
As	 outlined	 at	 the	 time	 of	 the	 interim	 results	 in	 February,	 we	 have	 been	 implementing	 our	 strategy	 of	 increasing	 investment	 in	 our	 existing	 portfolio	 of	 centres.	 Last	 year’s	 investment	 in	 refurbishing	 57	 pitches	 in	 the	 latest	 fifth	 generation	 surfaces	 helped	 increase	 pitch	 utilisation	 and	 drive	 improvement	 in	 like	 for	 like	 sales	 from	 3%	 to	 5%.	 A	 further	 80	 pitches	 have	 been	 refurbished	 this	 summer	 taking	 to	 80%	 the	 number	 of	 pitches	 in	 the	 estate	 with	 the	 latest	 state-of-the-art	 playing	 surfaces.	 Further	 investment	 has	 also	 gone	 into	 six	 bars	 which	 have	 been	 updated	 with	 plasma	 screens	 and	 comfortable,	 customer-friendly	 seating	 areas.	 Our	 commitment	 to	 providing	 our	 customers	 with	 excellent	 facilities	 and	 a	 great	 experience	 within	 a	 safe	 environment	 remains	 at	 the	 core	 of	 our	 business	 model.	 The	 unrivalled	 industry	 knowledge	 encompassed	 within	 our	 network	 of	 Managers	 and	 Head	 Office	 personnel,	 underpinned	 by	 our	 high	 staff	 retention	 levels,	 provides	 continuity	 of	 service	 and	 first-class	 tournament,	 league	 and	 social	 play.
We	 continue	 to	 invest	 in	 long-standing	 and	 key	 employees	 who	 deliver	 service	 excellence	 to	 our	 customers	 and	 reward	 them	 through	 a	 share	 option	 scheme	 as	 well	 as	 bonus	 schemes	 based	 on	 achieving	 or	 exceeding	 a	 range	 of	 targets.
Outlook
With	 three	 centres	 already	 open	 since	 the	 year-end,	 I	 can	 announce	 a	 further	 site	 is	 now	 under	 construction	 alongside	 Shrewsbury	 Town	 FC’s	 new	 football	 stadium.	 This	 centre	 has	 met	 our	 strict	 criteria	 and	 we	 are	 delighted	 to	 have	 acquired	 a	 site	 in	 such	 a	 prominent	 location.	 	 The	 centre	 is	 scheduled	 to	 open	 in	 February	 2008.	 The	 current	 pipeline	 of	 sites	 within	 the	 portfolio	 remains	 strong	 with	 new	 opportunities	 being	 targeted	 within	 under-provided	 locations.
The	 Group	 has	 continued	 to	 trade	 in	 line	 with	 expectations	 since	 the	 year-end	 and	 we	 have	 good	 reason	 to	 be	 encouraged	 by	 the	 opportunities	 for	 further	 growth	 in	 2007	 	 and	 beyond.
Claude Littner
Chairman
18	 October	 2007
Claude Littner Executive Chairman
Powerleague Group plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2007
2 Investing for Growth
Enhancing our premier football offering
Best Quality Pitches
5-a-side football the way it should  
be played.
Greater Ambiance
Post match analysis just got a whole lot better.
Ideal Party Venues
Weekend function bookings are enjoyed 
in the new premium quality bars.
We are constantly 
striving to improve our 
customer offering.
Our commitment to 
providing our customers 
with excellent facilities 
and a great experience 
within a safe environment 
remains at the core of 
our business model. 
£1.4m
invested in the core estate
3
 Powerleague Group plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2007
