 Impressive performance 
provides a platform for growth
Chairman’s statement
Eli Papouchado
6   Park Plaza Hotels Annual Report 2007 Even as an international hotelier of long-
standing, I am impressed and pleased by the 
performance of Park Plaza Hotels in 2007. 
As the success of the Group’s mid-year IPO 
on AIM indicated, my confidence in the future 
of Park Plaza Hotels is widely shared. 
In this brief message I would like to focus on the strengths 
that enabled us to have such a good year – and allude to 
the strategies that will result in the Group’s continuing 
success in the years ahead. 
Having two distinct hotel brands within our Group 
has certainly been in our favour. During 2007 both 
brands benefited from the continuing growth in European 
travel among business people and holiday-makers alike. 
Hotels within our full service Park Plaza Hotels & Resorts 
brand, with their extensive range of meeting rooms and 
conference facilities as well as recreational facilities, bars 
and restaurants have continued to attract new guests and 
retain previous visitors across both the executive and 
leisure sectors. At the same time, our Group’s art’otels, 
targeted at a sophisticated audience who appreciate 
staying in places in tune with local culture, have gained 
from the increase in short-haul European travel, including 
weekend city breaks. Operation of two distinct yet 
complementary brands provides us with maximum 
market flexibility. 
Guests who stay at our hotels once tend to revisit. 
But there is always the challenge of getting them across 
our thresholds in the first place. One major advantage 
is our close link with the global operations of Carlson 
Hotels Worldwide and its popular goldpointsplus
sm
 
loyalty scheme. Thanks in part to this, combined with 
involvement in carefully-selected airline and travel agent 
loyalty programmes, we have increased our 2007 
occupancy rate to 82.4% – considerably higher than 
the average for the regions in which we operate. 
Historically, our integrated approach to hotel and 
brand ownership has proven to be beneficial. Thanks 
to seamless hotel management and franchise services, 
we have availed ourselves of a number of market 
opportunities. For example, the Group’s acquisition, 
development and operation of flagship hotels such as 
the Park Plaza Victoria Amsterdam and the Park Plaza 
Riverbank London have led to important joint venture 
developments. These have included the Park Plaza 
Westminster Bridge London project, which will be one 
of Europe’s largest conference hotels on completion in 
2010. Park Plaza Westminster Bridge London, in turn, 
gave rise to other opportunities for the Group, such as 
management of what became the Park Plaza County Hall 
London nearby.
Further afield, the Group has also expanded Park Plaza 
Hotels & Resorts and art’otel franchise opportunities 
into new areas such as Morocco and the Gulf States. 
Such arrangements are particularly attractive, since they 
generate revenues and increase brand awareness without 
significant capital expenditure. 
Looking ahead, my fellow Directors and I are confident 
in the scope for growth. 
Expanding our two primary brands will cater for the 
growing demand for affordable luxury. We are doing this 
by increasing target customer awareness in Europe, the 
United States and in the emerging economies. At the 
same time, we are continuing to drive topline growth 
through further affiliation programmes with airlines and 
other partners. Operational efficiencies, such as the new 
management structure we initiated in 2007, are helping us 
to service the larger portfolio of properties we plan. 
We are also growing through carefully targeted 
acquisitions and new joint ventures in western European 
cities. Scrutiny of other markets in Eastern Europe and the 
Middle East could suggest other cities for expansion.
Of course, central to the Group’s success are the efforts 
of the 2,000 employees who make our hotel guests feel so 
consistently welcome and appreciated. Though our senior 
managers and staff supply the framework with superbly 
designed and equipped facilities, it is our employees who 
make our offering come alive through their dedication, 
enthusiasm and thorough understanding of what makes 
our hotels different. Everyone who works for Park Plaza 
Hotels has our admiration and our thanks. 
Our thanks, too, go to Park Plaza Hotels’ shareholders 
– many of whom joined us via our AIM listing in 2007. 
Through their investments, they have expressed tangible 
confidence in the Group’s unique vision and our ability 
to inspire our guests through individuality and passion. 
Our aim is to repay that confidence in kind through 
outstanding performance.
Sincerely,
Eli Papouchado
‘ Looking ahead, my  
fellow Directors and  
I are confident in the  
scope for growth.’
Park Plaza Hotels Annual Report 2007   7  
