 Making the most  
of great potential
President and CEO’s statement  
and operational review
Boris Ivesha
8   Park Plaza Hotels Annual Report 2007 In our first year as a publicly traded company 
on AIM, it is best to begin by letting our 
financial indicators speak for themselves:
– Total revenue
1
 for the year increased by 10% to €97 
million. This reflected good performance throughout 
the Group, including a RevPAR rise of 6.1% from the 
previous year to €97.10. This increase is mostly due 
to improvements in average room rates in our two 
most important markets: the United Kingdom and 
the Netherlands.
– In the United Kingdom we achieved a RevPAR of 
€144.60 for the full year, up 13.7%. In the Netherlands, 
our RevPAR was €112.50, an increase of 8.4% – a result 
attributable to an average room rate increase of 
6.8% while maintaining an occupancy rate of 90%. 
– Group EBITDA
1
 increased by 24.4% to €28.4 million 
thanks to strong performance in particular from our 
hotels in the United Kingdom and the Group’s hotel 
management operations. These successes more than 
offset challenging conditions in Germany and Hungary.
As we stated when the Group applied for admission 
to AIM, we intend to retain our earnings and make the 
most of a strong balance sheet to grow our portfolio. 
Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any dividends 
during the 18-month period that began with our AIM 
listing on 17 July, 2007. Instead, our priority is to 
concentrate investing our time and efforts on expanding 
our portfolio of hotels, making the most of the Group’s 
exciting brands and improving operations in terms of 
guest experience and efficiency. 
We are doing this from a position of strength, as our 2007 
results demonstrate. 
The Group’s structure, with its two distinct hotel brands, 
allows for complete flexibility. Park Plaza Hotels & 
Resorts, which is a part of Carlson Hotels Worldwide, 
allows us exclusive rights in 56 countries in Europe, the 
Middle East and North Africa. In addition, are those 
properties that are part of our own brand, art’otel. Both 
operate in the mid-to upscale market segment but attract 
their own styles of business and leisure travellers.
The Group’s link with Carlson Hotels Worldwide adds 
another dimension to our business model. It provides 
access to Carlson’s large-scale and highly effective 
reservation, distribution and marketing system. This 
partnership grants Park Plaza Hotels several benefits 
usually confined to much larger organisations: economies 
of scale, operating experience, enhanced negotiating 
power and global reach. 
To maximise these benefits and capture others, in 2007 
we devised and successfully implemented a new yield 
management system throughout key portfolio properties. 
As a result, we can now make better use of historic data, 
analyse trends and optimise our pricing. This improves 
management forecasting ability and drives top line 
growth. Our hotels are also fully engaged in the new 
global Carlson goldpointsplus
SM
 guest reward 
programme, which covers 965 locations in 71 countries. 
With its newly centralised and enlarged database, the 
system provides improved benefits to cardholders – 
and to us.
To widen our client-base even more, in 2007 we 
negotiated agreements with 14 frequent flyer 
programmes, a welcome addition to the five agreements 
already in place. We now have partnerships with the 
world’s main carriers such as KLM/Air France, Lufthansa, 
British Airways, American Airlines, United Airlines, JAL 
and Cathay Pacific. Again, these relationships have 
substantially increased our reach to potential guests 
the world over.
Sincerely,
Boris Ivesha
‘ The Group’s structure,  
with its two distinct  
hotel brands, allows for 
complete flexibility.’
1 Like for like, un-audited proforma results.
Park Plaza Hotels Annual Report 2007   9   10   Park Plaza Hotels Annual Report 2007 the bigger picture
At all Park Plaza Hotels & Resorts – 
and at our art’otels in particular – style 
is substance. It’s not just about creating 
exciting environments that intrigue and 
amuse our guests. Equally important 
is the attention paid to every detail to 
ensure that our properties provide a 
total experience that bears repeating.
Off the wall—and on. We have specialists 
dedicated to acquiring sculptures and 
paintings for our hotels. Art for art’s sake? 
No. Their efforts are part of building our 
distinctive brand. 
Park Plaza Hotels Annual Report 2007   11  
