 As outlined in the Chairman’s statement, this 
year has been one of significant development 
for the Group and I am pleased that we have 
continued to show strong growth over the year 
with increases in revenue and EBITDA.
New openings
During the year under review, we opened four 
new centres across the UK.
The new Powerleague centre at Cardiff opened 
in August 2007 and is located at Whitchurch 
High School, the largest comprehensive school 
in the country, just off a main arterial road 
into the city. It is a state-of-the-art 5-a-side 
football venue with 10 rubber crumb pitches, 
a sports bar and modern changing facilities. 
Powerleague invested £1.6 million in the 
construction of the centre.
The new Milton Keynes centre, which opened  
in October 2007, is also located at a school  
and was successfully won via a tender process. 
Powerleague has invested in excess of  
£2.0 million in the centre at Milton Keynes,  
which comprises ten 5-a-side and two  
7-a-side pitches.
The centre at Old Street opened in September 
2007. It is an innovative indoor centre with four 
pitches in the heart of the City of London, not far 
from our existing centre in Worship Street, and 
has extremely high utilisation rates.
The newest centre, which opened in January 
2008, is located in Shrewsbury, alongside the 
grounds of the football club’s new stadium. The 
centre has six 5-a-side pitches and one 7-a-side 
pitch and will benefit from clubhouse revenues 
when the Club hosts home games as the 
football season gets under way.
We are very pleased with the performance of 
these centres which will all make a positive 
contribution in the current financial year.
In August 2008, we announced that we had 
acquired Soccer Sensations, the premier  
5-a-side football centre in Teesside, located at 
Stockton-on-Tees. This is a centre with excellent 
facilities that boasts ten ‘next generation’ 
5-a-side pitches and its geographic location 
complements Powerleague’s portfolio of 43 
centres around the UK. We are confident that 
with our know-how, we can grow revenue  
and profit.
Soccer Domes
Our recent acquisition of the JJB Soccer Domes 
combined the third largest 5-a-side operator in 
the UK with Powerleague, already the largest 
player in the market. This acquisition of outdoor 
and indoor centres has created a number of 
exciting growth opportunities for the Group to 
exploit and has been welcomed by customers, 
colleagues and sponsors. The Soccer Domes 
offer excellent security of tenure with an 
average lease period of 20 years with an  
option to renew. 
All five of the Soccer Domes are making a 
positive contribution to profits, present excellent 
growth opportunities and fit extremely well 
into our core estate. In Greater Manchester, 
Powerleague now has four locations with 67 
pitches in total covering different parts of the 
city and beyond. The Soccer Domes also retain 
a number of high-profile corporate clients 
and events and our unrivalled track record in 
monetising sponsorship and events means we 
are well placed to grow this revenue stream as 
the year progresses. 
Over the last six months we have successfully 
integrated Powerleague’s proprietary 
management and booking systems into the 
Soccer Domes. This, together with a focused, 
proactive sales approach has given us far 
greater revenue visibility and allowed us to fully 
utilise our pitch bookings, creating the platform, 
infrastructure and branch management 
expertise to generate further revenue growth. 
A full review of staffing levels has been carried 
out and cost savings have been made in a 
number of non-key areas. 
A major re-marketing campaign is under way 
at the Powerleague Soccer Domes, with the 
rebranding of the centres already complete and 
new marketing literature created. This is timed 
for the key autumn recruitment period as we 
come out of the summer months, the darker 
nights kick in and the football season gets into 
full swing.
We have also gained entertainment licences 
at all five of the Soccer Domes, opening up 
a whole new income stream to the Group. 
Weekend functions are highly popular with the 
local communities in which our centres serve 
and we have been successfully marketing our 
bars for private weekend function trade for a 
number of years. With all of the Soccer Domes in 
prominent locations we have already started to 
see function bookings being made, particularly 
since we refurbished the Soccer Dome bars and 
adapted them for weekend function trade.
Capital Investment
In the last financial year, we have continued to 
invest in our core estate. We spent £1.4 million 
on 80 pitches at nine centres, introducing the 
latest 5th generation playing surfaces and thus 
enhancing our customers’ playing experience. 
Over 80% of our pitches now have the latest 
playing surfaces, up from less than 50% three 
years ago. As discussed earlier, we have also 
invested in improving the look and feel of the 
Soccer Dome bars for existing customers and  
to make them suitable for private functions.
In addition, we have just opened two new  
5-a-side pitches at our Mill Hill centre, which 
was running at capacity and has scope for 
further growth, and have extended the car 
park and improved the lighting as part of 
our commitment to improve our customer 
experience.
All five of the Soccer Domes are making a positive 
contribution to profits, present excellent growth 
opportunities and fit extremely well into our core estate. 
Sean Tracey Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Report
06 Top Sponsorship
Our proactive approach to sourcing and investigating 
innovative marketing ideas has helped develop this 
lucrative income stream.
Powerleague, the UK market leader in 5-a-side football, 
gets the attention of over 125,000 footy-crazy men and 
women every week at 44 centres nationwide. 
 Powerleague Group plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 28 June 2008
07
