 The	 increasing	 popularity	 of	 5-a-side	 football	 and	 Powerleague’s	 prominent	 market	 position	 means	 we	 are	 well	 placed	 to	 take	 full	 advantage	 of	 future	 opportunities.
Chief Executive’s Report
I	 am	 delighted	 to	 report	 that	 trading	 in	 the	 year	 to	 30	 June	 2007	 was	 strong,	 with	 growth	 in	 revenue,	 profit	 and	 pre-tax	 cash	 flow	 from	 operating	 activities.	 Revenue	 increased	 in	 the	 year	 from	 £20.5	 million	 to	 £23.0	 million,	 with	 like	 for	 like	 branch	 sales	 up	 5%	 (2006:	 3%)	 and	 an	 exceptional	 performance	 in	 sponsorship	 and	 events	 which	 generated	 41%	 growth	 against	 the	 	 prior	 year.
New Openings
Our	 Coventry	 and	 first	 City	 of	 London	 centre	 both	 opened	 just	 prior	 to	 the	 end	 of	 the	 last	 financial	 year	 and	 each	 has	 contributed	 encouragingly	 in	 its	 first	 full	 year	 of	 trading.	 Further	 growth	 is	 anticipated	 at	 both	 locations	 as	 more	 prospective	 customers	 become	 aware	 of	 the	 Powerleague	 brand	 and	 exciting	 offering.	 Our	 City	 of	 London	 centre	 in	 Worship	 Street	 has	 benefited	 from	 lunchtime	 trade,	 high	 evening	 occupancy	 figures	 and	 a	 high	 volume	 of	 corporate	 event	 bookings	 from	 City	 firms	 and	 Institutions.	 The	 high	 occupancy	 level	 experienced	 at	 our	 Kilmarnock	 centre	 provided	 us	 with	 the	 opportunity	 of	 adding	 an	 additional	 7-a-side	 pitch	 last	 summer	 on	 the	 spare	 parcel	 of	 land	 within	 our	 demise	 and	 this	 has	 proved	 highly	 successful.	 The	 Group	 took	 the	 opportunity	 in	 summer	 2006,	 at	 the	 start	 of	 the	 last	 financial	 year,	 to	 invest	 further	 in	 upgrading	 and	 improving	 the	 quality	 of	 pitches	 in	 our	 core	 estate.	 In	 total,	 six	 centres	 were	 refurbished	 and	 57	 pitches	 were	 resurfaced	 with	 the	 latest	 fifth	 generation	 playing	 surfaces.	 This	 period	 of	 consolidation	 and	 investment	 has	 helped	 drive	 like	 for	 like	 sales	 up	 5%,	 and	 further	 enhanced	 our	 customers’	 playing	 experience.
This	 strategy	 of	 investing	 for	 growth	 has	 continued	 in	 the	 2008	 financial	 year,	 with	 work	 having	 been	 completed	 over	 the	 summer	 months	 in	 upgrading	 a	 further	 80	 pitches	 in	 eight	 locations	 at	 a	 cost	 of	 £1.4	 million.	 This	 has	 provided	 us	 with	 the	 platform	 on	 which	 to	 	 re-market	 these	 centres,	 attract	 new	 customers	 and	 raise	 our	 prices,	 thereby	 generating	 additional	 revenue	 and	 margin.	 By	 the	 end	 of	 the	 summer,	 over	 80%	 of	 our	 estate	 had	 the	 latest	 fifth	 generation	 pitch	 surfaces.
In	 addition,	 six	 of	 the	 Group’s	 busiest	 bars	 	 at	 Fairlop,	 Peterborough,	 Stoke,	 Nottingham,	 	 Catford	 and	 Glasgow	 will	 also	 be	 refurbished	 	 and	 this,	 combined	 with	 full	 pitch	 refurbishments	 at	 all	 these	 centres,	 will	 help	 boost	 revenues	 and	 further	 enhance	 our	 customers’	 overall	 playing	 experience.	 Pipeline Sites
Since	 the	 year-end,	 Powerleague	 has	 opened	 an	 innovative	 indoor	 centre	 on	 a	 long	 lease	 at	 Old	 Street	 in	 the	 City	 of	 London.	 The	 pitches	 have	 been	 converted	 from	 former	 railway	 arches.	 The	 centre	 has	 already	 proved	 highly	 popular,	 with	 strong	 sales,	 high	 utilisation	 rates	 and	 encouraging	 levels	 of	 interest	 from	 both	 lunchtime	 and	 evening	 players.
In	 August	 2007	 the	 Group	 opened	 its	 eleventh	 education	 or	 ‘school	 site’	 in	 Cardiff	 at	 the	 largest	 comprehensive	 school	 in	 the	 country.	 Located	 in	 a	 prominent	 and	 high	 profile	 location	 on	 a	 main	 arterial	 road	 into	 Cardiff,	 the	 centre	 has	 ten	 fifth	 generation	 pitches,	 a	 licensed	 sports	 bar	 and	 excellent	 changing	 facilities.	 Pre-opening	 sales	 have	 been	 highly	 encouraging	 and	 the	 centre	 is	 forecast	 to	 make	 a	 strong	 contribution	 in	 the	 2008	 financial	 year.
Sean Tracey Chief Executive
Powerleague Group plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2007
 National Footprint
Our national network of centres makes us a market leader
Freehold sites
Local authority lease
Private landlord sites
School/university sites
Autumn 07 Openings
City Old Street
New Site
Cardi
New Site
Milton Keynes
New Site
We are constantly 
seeking out new sites 
and opportunities 
to expand our 
national network.
Powerleague is 
delighted to have been 
the pioneer of the 
partnership approach 
with the education 
sector.
37
centres in total
3
new centres opened since the year-end
 Powerleague Group plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2007 Top sponsorship
We continue to develop strong partnerships
+ 41%
increase in sponsorship and events revenue
Our proactive approach 
to sourcing and 
investigating innovative 
marketing ideas has 
helped develop this 
lucrative income stream.
Powerleague Group plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2007
 Powerleague	 Milton	 Keynes	 opened	 at	 the	 end	 of	 September	 2007	 at	 Walton	 High	 School,	 the	 Group’s	 twelfth	 education	 site	 which	 is	 an	 outstanding	 centre	 in	 a	 prized	 location.	 The	 £2	 million	 centre	 has	 ten	 5-a-side	 pitches	 and	 two	 7-a-side	 pitches,	 all	 with	 fifth	 generation	 playing	 surfaces,	 excellent	 changing	 facilities	 and	 a	 licensed	 sports	 bar.	 Advanced	 bookings	 have	 proved	 highly	 encouraging,	 and	 the	 centre	 is	 expected	 to	 make	 a	 strong	 contribution	 in	 	 the	 year.	 	 As	 the	 pioneer	 of	 this	 partnership	 approach	 within	 the	 education	 sector,	 to	 date	 we	 have	 over	 20,000	 children	 per	 week	 playing	 free	 throughout	 our	 portfolio	 of	 centres.	 With	 child	 obesity	 currently	 a	 ‘hot	 topic’,	 we	 believe	 that	 we	 are	 providing	 a	 most	 important	 facility	 for	 children	 to	 get	 fit,	 maintain	 a	 healthy	 lifestyle	 and	 enjoy	 the	 sport.
From	 a	 business	 perspective,	 our	 philosophy	 from	 the	 early	 days	 of	 the	 Group	 has	 paid	 dividends;	 the	 local	 children	 who	 played	 at	 our	 earliest	 centres	 not	 only	 established	 a	 strong	 relationship	 with	 and	 loyalty	 to	 the	 centre	 and	 its	 staff,	 but	 have	 now	 developed	 into	 paying	 customers.	 	 Our	 approach	 is	 to	 continue	 to	 embrace	 the	 local	 community	 in	 which	 our	 centres	 are	 located.
Future Pipeline
An	 exciting	 new	 site	 alongside	 Shrewsbury	 Town	 FC’s	 new	 10,000	 seat	 stadium	 is	 now	 under	 construction.	 With	 a	 catchment	 area	 of	 over	 200,000	 people	 within	 a	 20-minute	 drive	 time,	 prominent	 location	 off	 the	 A5	 and	 no	 commercial	 competition,	 we	 believe	 this	 site	 will	 prove	 very	 popular.	 In	 addition,	 the	 bar	 area	 will	 also	 benefit	 from	 increased	 revenues	 when	 the	 Championship	 club	 plays	 its	 home	 matches.	 The	 Group	 has	 over	 thirty	 sites	 at	 various	 stages	 in	 the	 planning	 process,	 of	 which	 six,	 at	 the	 time	 of	 writing,	 are	 in	 the	 hands	 of	 lawyers,	 negotiating	 and	 finalising	 the	 agreements	 to	 lease.	 As	 Powerleague’s	 brand	 and	 profile	 grow,	 so	 too	 do	 the	 opportunities	 presented	 to	 us	 to	 develop	 5-a-side	 centres.	 However,	 many	 do	 not	 fit	 our	 criteria	 and	 those	 that	 do	 have	 to	 go	 through	 planning	 procedures	 which	 are	 not	 always	 straightforward	 or	 speedy.	 While	 this	 may	 be	 viewed	 as	 a	 potential	 barrier	 to	 entry	 it	 brings	 other	 challenges,	 in	 that	 it	 is	 not	 always	 easy	 to	 predict	 when	 a	 site	 will	 be	 able	 to	 go	 under	 construction.	 I	 am	 greatly	 encouraged	 by	 the	 quality	 and	 number	 of	 sites	 we	 are	 processing	 and	 the	 progress	 we	 are	 making	 to	 open	 centres	 in	 areas	 of	 the	 country	 which	 are	 under-served	 	 or	 completely	 lacking	 in	 the	 provision	 of	 	 purpose-built	 facilities.
Sponsorship and Corporate Events
Over	 the	 last	 12	 months	 and	 as	 forecast	 in	 last	 year’s	 annual	 report,	 sponsorship	 and	 corporate	 events	 have	 continued	 to	 develop,	 with	 sales	 up	 41%	 year	 on	 year.	 We	 have	 an	 impressive	 client	 list,	 supplemented	 by	 long-term	 sponsorship	 partners,	 headed	 by	 Xbox,	 Nike,	 Lucozade	 and	 Budweiser.	 We	 have	 also	 worked	 with	 O2	 and	 Toyota	 to	 promote	 their	 brands	 to	 Powerleague	 customers	 as	 part	 of	 a	 wider	 media	 campaign.	 Furthermore,	 during	 this	 period	 we	 have	 hosted	 and	 managed	 new	 5-a-side	 events	 for	 a	 wealth	 of	 companies	 such	 as	 Goldman	 Sachs,	 sThree,	 NCP	 and	 Deloitte.	 In	 addition,	 Powerleague	 successfully	 retained	 national	 events	 for	 Barclays	 Bank,	 J	 D	 Wetherspoon	 and	 Sainsbury’s.	 Looking	 forward	 to	 the	 next	 12	 months,	 exciting	 new	 opportunities	 for	 further	 growth	 remain	 in	 this	 area.	 The	 2008	 European	 Championships	 (‘Euro	 2008’)	 will	 attract	 further	 interest	 in	 football	 from	 major	 brands	 and	 we	 are	 ideally	 placed	 to	 take	 advantage	 of	 such	 opportunities.	 In	 fact,	 	 we	 are	 already	 engaged	 in	 discussions	 with	 a	 number	 of	 brands	 with	 regard	 to	 future	 activity.	 Our	 proactive	 approach	 to	 sourcing	 and	 instigating	 innovative	 marketing	 ideas	 has	 helped	 develop	 this	 lucrative	 income	 stream.
Chief Executive’s Report – continued
7
 Powerleague Group plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2007
