 Dear shareholders,
I am proud of the significant progress that 
we have made during the year as trading 
conditions improved across all the markets  
in which we operate. 
In recent years, the global hotel industry has 
had to cope with an exceptionally turbulent 
environment as a result of the global economic 
downturn and financial crisis during which 
the industry witnessed an unprecedented 
reduction in travel demand resulting in an 
industry-wide fall in RevPAR.
The pressure on RevPAR alongside a lack 
of available financing from the global 
financial markets have also constrained the 
development pipeline of many hoteliers. 
During 2010, the overall European hotel 
performance improved with year on year 
RevPAR growth in most European city markets  
(source: TRI Hospitality HotStats, 2010).
Against this background, I am pleased to 
report a strong financial performance for the 
year to 31 December 2010, which exceeded 
the Board’s expectations with the Group’s 
established hotels in London and Amsterdam 
outperforming their competitive sets in terms 
of RevPAR (STR Global, December 2010). 
Our other achievements included the 
expansion of our portfolio through the 
addition of 1,579 rooms achieved through 
the delivery of projects in our development 
pipeline and through hotel acquisitions. In 
particular, after ten years in planning and 30 
months of construction we were delighted to 
open our flagship 1,019 room hotel, Park Plaza 
Westminster Bridge London, one of the largest 
hotels to open in London. 
Feedback from guests and clients on our 
newly built hotels in London and Cologne has 
been very encouraging and in their first year 
of operation they already received high scores 
in our guest satisfaction system, won several 
awards and accreditations and experienced 
high levels of returning guests. 
Our people are at the core of Park Plaza Hotels’ 
success and we recognise the importance of 
training. Connect!, our company-wide training 
programme was launched in 2008 to ensure 
that all of our employees are well trained in 
their roles to enable them to consistently exceed 
guest expectations. The training programme 
remains very successful in improving the 
performance of our staff, improving job 
satisfaction and maintaining the highest level  
of service for our guests. 
I am particularly proud that we have 
experienced unprecedented guest and 
employee satisfaction levels in 2010 and I 
would like to take this opportunity to thank all 
our employees on behalf of the Board for their 
hard work, professionalism and commitment 
during the year. I am profoundly grateful to 
them for everything they do to ensure that we 
continue to deliver excellent customer service 
to our guests. 
Our strategy remains unchanged as we strive 
to become one of the leading hotel owners, 
developers, operators and franchisors of 
high quality four-star, four-star deluxe and 
contemporary lifestyle hotels predominantly 
in European market. We succeeded this year in 
raising our brands’ profile through intensified 
cooperation with our strategic partner , Carlson, 
our continued focus on operational efficiency 
and our portfolio growth. Looking forward, 
we will remain focused on driving RevPAR, 
maintaining a high quality of service standards, 
investing in our hotels and progressing our 
development pipeline as we continue to 
expand and build for the future to the benefit 
of our shareholders, guests and employees.
The Company has not paid any dividends since 
its incorporation but, subject to compliance 
with Guernsey law and the retention of proper 
and prudent reserves by the Company, the 
Board intends to recommend the payment 
of an annual dividend of at least 3p per share 
commencing in 2012.
The Board is continually mindful of applying 
high standards of corporate governance 
and in line with the generally high levels of 
activity in the Group during the year the Audit 
Committee has been particularly very active; 
details of the Audit Committee’s activities 
during the year can be found in the Directors’ 
Report and Corporate Governance section.
The Board continues to believe that our  
long-term growth prospects remain attractive. 
To further raise Park Plaza Hotels’ profile we 
have recently announced our intention to 
apply for admission of the Company’s ordinary 
shares to listing on the standard listing 
segment of the Official List of the UK Listing 
Authority and to trading on the London Stock 
Exchange’s main market for listed securities.
Eli Papouchado 
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
The development potential of  
our portfolio positions us well to 
benefit from a market recovery
Park Plaza Hotels Annual Report 2010   3
