 –22– –23–
Welcome 
I am particularly proud of what our teams have 
achieved in 2013. It has been an exciting year 
with strong trading in London, increased 
ownership in several hotels in The Netherlands 
and several corporate developments all of which 
will help us to enhance growth. Our London 
hotels continued to trade strongly and Germany 
delivered a steady performance. Trading 
conditions in The Netherlands remained volatile, 
despite the much-anticipated 2013 celebration 
year for Amsterdam, which failed to bring us as 
m a n y 	 b e n e fi ts 	 as 	 e xp e c t e d .
During the year our teams focused on 
maintaining RevPAR through occupancy,  
in anticipation of certain fragile markets, 
challenging 2012 comparatives and increased 
supply in most of our markets. In local currency, 
our owned hotels in London achieved a 4.9% 
growth in revenue. The London market has 
proven to be highly resilient and we are 
therefore pleased that we have been able to 
further strengthen our development pipeline  
in this appealing travel and investor destination. 
Our development pipeline in London now 
includes three new hotel projects and one 
r econ fi gurati on 	 and 	 e x t ensi on 	 wh i ch, 	 when	
completed, are expected to increase our  
room count in London by approximately  
47% to nearly 3,300.
Disposal
After having carefully reassessed the project 
at Pattaya Bay in Thailand, I am pleased to 
a d v i s e	t h a t	t h e	d i s p o s a l	g a v e	r i s e	t o	a	p r o fi t ,	
although the consideration is deferred for 
three years. 
Investing in our portfolio
During the course of 2013, we continued  
to invest in our hotels to ensure that we  
retain our strong competitive positions in  
the markets in which we operate. In Croatia, 
following a successful 2012 inaugural season, 
Park Plaza Medulin completed its renovation 
scheme with all rooms now fully renovated. 
We also completed the renovation of the 
rooms of the former Hotel Palma with 127 
rooms now added to the room inventory of 
P a r k	Pl a z a	H i s t r i a	P u l a ,	t h e	b r a n d ’ s	fl a g s h i p 
in Istria. 
A major milestone for us was the highly 
a n t i c i p a t e d	o p e n i n g	o f	o u r	l a t e s t	fl a g s h i p	
hotel, art’otel amsterdam. This hotel was set 
t o	r e d e fi n e	t h e	b r a n d	p o s i t i o n i n g	f o r	a r t ’ o t e l ,	
elevating it to a luxury, lifestyle level. Since it 
opened in October 2013, art’otel amsterdam 
has been very well received by the market, 
generating very positive feedback for both 
the hotel and the separately operated  
and marketed 5&33 restaurant, bar and 
gallery space. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER’S STATEMENT 
WE ARE COMMITTED TO 
DRIVING GROWTH
BORIS IVESHA 
PRESIDENT AND CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE OFFICER –24–
The 5&33 concept was our second successful 
standalone dining concept introduced in the 
year as it was preceded by the launch of TOZI 
(located at Park Plaza Victoria London). Similar 
to 5&33, TOZI is a shared-dining concept aimed 
at a local clientele and both new concepts are 
currently rated among the top restaurants in 
their respective markets. Since it opened in 
April 2013, TOZI, for example, has not left the 
top 20 of best restaurants in London, as 
f e atur ed 	 on 	 in fluenti a l 	 websit e 	 trip advisor . com,	
out of more than 16,000 restaurants in London. 
5&33 has been consistently rated as a top-10 
r es taurant 	 in 	 Ams t er dam, 	 r egu l arly 	 cl a im in g 	 firs t	
position, according to couverts.nl, one of The 
Netherlands’ leading restaurant websites. 
Strategic relationship and marketing
Our more than a decade long partnership with 
the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group continues  
to go from strength to strength and we are 
pleased to see the global direction this 
partnership has taken. In a global industry,  
it is important to have a clear distribution, 
marketing and sales strategy through which all 
sta k eh o l de rs 	 b e n e fi t 	 fr o m 	 e c o n o m i es 	 o f 	 sca l e ,	
negotiating power and innovative market leading 
initiatives, all of which are engrained in the 
Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group vision and 
roadmap. The various loyalty programmes, in 
which our hotels participate, continued to grow 
their memberships and we experienced more 
contribution of these programmes in the form of 
direct business and award stays being consumed 
at our hotels. Members of the Club Carlson 
programme are also more likely to return than 
non-members, their loyalty score is higher and 
the average room rate associated with member 
stays is higher than from non-member stays.
New for the year was the launch of a dedicated 
loyalty programme for small and medium sized 
enterprises. This programme will help us to 
compete better in our local markets by 
offering our customers a strong global value 
pr o posi tion 	 of 	 t r a v el 	 benefit s 	 and 	 at t r ac ti v e 	
discounts. We are particularly excited about 
the various initiatives Carlson Rezidor Hotel 
Group has in development with Google, such 
as Google Hotel Finder and Google Wallet, 
which will help us to improve our marketing 
reach and aide our objective to generate  
more business direct. Another milestone is  
the integration of tripadvisor.com reviews on 
o ur 	 hot el 	 we bsi t e s. 	 W e 	 t ak e 	 confid ence 	 in 	 o ur 	
products and services and offer our customers 
easy access to ratings and reviews from guests 
who have already stayed with us. 
Guest experience
Consistently delivering exceptional 
customer service remains one of the 
strongest differentiators within our industry 
and our continued investment in learning and 
development programmes has contributed 
to another stellar performance. Our overall 
service performance for the year increased 
to 8.50, another record. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER’S STATEMENT
CONTINUED
 “THE KEY 
REQUIREMENT TO 
CONTINUOUSLY DELIVER 
EXEMPLARY SERVICE IS  
TO HAVE A HIGHLY 
MOTIVATED AND 
ENGAGED WORKFORCE.”  –25–
The key requirement to continuously  
deliver exemplary service is to have a highly 
motivated and engaged workforce. Our 
employee satisfaction survey results for the 
year were again impressive and a new record 
was achieved. Areas in which our employees 
rated our Group particularly high included 
ethical standards and personal development, 
which showed a good year-on-year growth,  
a direct result of investment in training. Areas 
such as loyalty and ambassadorship increased 
year on year, which are important to ensure 
continuity in service delivery. The response 
rate was at another record level, with 93%  
of our workforce participating.
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Sustainability and responsible business  
are part of our strategy and operations and 
several hotels were recognised during the  
year for their work in these areas, including 
additional accreditation of certain hotels.  
We minimised employees travelling between 
o ur 	 cor por at e 	 of fice 	 and 	 r eg ional 	 of fice s 	 and 	
hotels, by investing in a state of the art 
video-conferencing system. We supported 
various charitable causes throughout the year 
on a corporate and hotel level, including but  
not limited to our annual participation in 
Movember, the prostate cancer charity initiative. 
 “A MAJOR MILESTONE 
FOR US WAS THE HIGHLY 
ANTICIPATED OPENING OF 
ART’OTEL AMSTERDAM. THIS 
HOTEL WAS SET TO REDEFINE 
THE BRAND POSITIONING FOR 
ART’OTEL, ELEVATING IT TO A 
LUXURY, LIFESTYLE LEVEL.”  –26–
Investing for the future
Just before the period end we completed  
ou r 	 l a r gest 	 r e fi n a n ci n g 	 t o 	 da t e , 	 a n d 	 ap a r t	 
fr o m 	 th e 	 i mp r o v e d 	 fi n a n ci a l 	 t e rms 	 th a t 	 th is	
fi v e- y e a r 	 fa ci l it y 	 wi l l 	 b ri n g , 	 it 	 a lso 	 i n cl u des 	 a	
s i gn i fi ca n t 	 cap ita l 	 e xp e n ditu r e 	 a l l o ca t i o n . 	 F r o m	
20 1 4 	 o n wa r ds , 	 w e 	 wi l l 	 e mb a rk 	 o n 	 a 	 s i gn i fi ca n t	
capital expenditure programme, with further 
renovation work planned at hotels in all of our 
markets. Our core hotels in The Netherlands and 
the United Kingdom will be renovated and in 
some cases repositioned, to further strengthen 
their appeal. Our acquisition of the freehold 
interests of art’otel berlin mitte and art’otel berlin 
kudamm paves the way for renovations of these 
properties, commencing in 2014. 
In Croatia, the former Hotel Belvedere has 
now closed for extensive renovations and, 
once completed, this hotel will open as Park 
Plaza Belvedere Medulin in summer 2014.  
This will be our fourth and largest Park Plaza 
hotel to open in this attractive tourist 
destination and Park Plaza Hotels & Resorts  
is now one of the largest international hotel 
brands in Croatia. On completion of this 
renovation, more than 50% of Arenaturist’s 
hotel rooms will have been extensively 
renovated between 2012 and 2014. 
An impressive feat given the challenging 
economic conditions and we see it as a 
demonstration of our skills to successfully 
redevelop, reposition and operate hotels. 
Current trading and outlook
T h e	fi r s t	q u a r t e r	o f	t h e	y e a r	i s	t r a d i t i o n a l l y	 
our weakest. Nevertheless in comparison  
with 2013, our RevPAR performance in 
January and February improved year  
on year. Overall results are in line with  
the Board’s expectations in all markets.
Over the next two years, we will be 
s i g n i fi c a n t l y	i n v e s t i n g	i n	o u r	p o r t f o l i o	 
with renovations planned across ten hotels. 
This work is undertaken to ensure our hotels 
continue to improve on their strong market 
positions. We aim to minimise the impact on 
our operations through careful planning and  
a phased approach where possible. However, 
once renovations commence, we anticipate 
reduced capacities and a short-term impact 
on revenue due to temporary closures of 
rooms and public areas. Although this may  
be at the expense of short-term revenue 
gains, we believe that this investment will 
have a positive impact on our long-term 
results and position in the markets in which 
we operate.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER’S STATEMENT
CONTINUED
 “OUR REVPAR 
PERFORMANCE IN JANUARY 
AND FEBRUARY IMPROVED 
YEAR ON YEAR.”  –27–
OUR PEOPLE AND SERVICES
Irrespective of the business type, all hotels in our portfolio benefit from  
being part of a dynamic, full-service international hotel group led by  
a highly experienced, loyal and involved senior management team. 
PPHE Hotel Group has clearly defined values and operates to very high 
standards. The Company provides a wide range of services to hotels including 
hotel operations, global distribution, sales, revenue management, marketing, 
customer retention management, public relations, finance, human resources, 
learning and development, project design, development services, asset 
management, restaurants and bars operations, legal support, IT and  
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). 
OUR CUSTOMERS
Our customers appreciate our friendly, yet business minded attitude. They 
appreciate the high level of services we offer, the excellent locations and 
contemporary design of our hotels and the reasonable prices we charge. 
The Company’s mission statement is ‘inspiring our guests through individuality 
and passion’, and customers can experience our service-led philosophy first 
hand in five countries, in key leisure and business cities such as Amsterdam, 
Berlin and London or in resort destinations such as Croatia. Customers can 
book our hotels 24/7, be it direct with us, through any of our sophisticated 
platforms such as the websites, apps or mobile sites, through the extensive 
loyalty programmes, or via intermediaries or any of our strategic partners. 
OUR SHAREHOLDERS
Our shareholders believe in our business model, operating skills 
and developments. 
Shareholder value is created through continued improvement of operations, 
revenue growth, active asset management, financial restructuring, expansion  
and development.
Our business types
Full ownership Joint ventures Management 
contracts
Operating 
leases
Franchise 
agreements
We know what to 
look for when 
identifying assets  
with development 
potential, from plots 
of land to tired hotels 
in need of investment. 
We aim to own hotels 
in key gateway cities 
in Europe where 
capital value is likely 
to appreciate.
Our joint ventures 
take many forms, but 
they share the same 
strategy – we focus on 
developing a mutually 
beneficial working 
relationship to return 
maximum profits for 
all parties involved, 
combining our 
management skills  
with co-investment.
A management 
contract allows 
owners to retain 
ownership of their 
property while  
we undertake  
the day-to-day 
management. They 
have the confidence  
of working with a 
leading hotel brand 
while we run their 
hotel with efficiency 
and passion.
Institutional investors 
may favour operating 
leases, whereby we 
lease their property  
and pay them rent.  
We manage all aspects 
of the operation of the 
hotel, from sales  
and marketing to 
reservations and food  
& beverage to human 
resources, thereby 
reducing their exposure 
to economic and 
business downturns.
The franchise option 
is ideal for partners  
who enjoy running 
their own hotel but  
seek the reassurance 
of industry-leading 
support services  
such as distribution, 
marketing and  
central reservations.
