 Chief Executive Officer’s statement
We are now seeing the benefits  
of our strategic investments
Welcome, 
2010 was an active and exciting year in our 
development. Significant progress was made 
on a number of projects and we started to 
benefit from our development pipeline and 
hotel acquisitions. 
A key highlight in the year was the opening of 
our flagship hotel, the 1,019 room Park Plaza 
Westminster Bridge London. 
A total of 1,579 rooms were added to 
the portfolio during the year through the 
addition of two newly built hotels in London 
and Cologne and one acquisition near 
Amsterdam Airport, and 123 rooms were 
removed following the termination of a 
franchise agreement in Germany, bringing the 
total number of rooms operated by us at the 
year-end to approximately 8,400. 
We also successfully completed the 
refinancing of three of our London hotels, 
Park Plaza Victoria London, Park Plaza 
Riverbank London (including Plaza on the 
River) and Park Plaza Sherlock Holmes 
London, and through a subsequent 
transaction we now have full ownership  
of these hotels. 
In 2010, trading conditions in all the markets 
in which we operate improved. There were 
early signs of recovery in the first half, despite 
the travel disruption in northern Europe 
as a result of heavy snow in January 2010 
and the unprecedented closure of airspace 
in April 2010 as a result of the volcanic ash 
cloud from Iceland. This recovery gained 
momentum in the second half of the year as 
demand from both corporate and leisure 
travellers increased. 
Once again, our established London 
hotels – Park Plaza Victoria London, Park 
Plaza Riverbank London (including Plaza 
on the River) and Park Plaza Sherlock 
Holmes London – performed strongly in 
the year with RevPAR for each of these 
hotels outperforming the average RevPAR 
of its competitive set in 2010 (STR Global, 
December 2010). 
As a result, we are pleased to report a strong 
financial performance for the year to  
31 December 2010, which exceeded the 
Board’s expectations. Total reported  
Group revenue increased by 74.1% to  
€139.8 million and EBITDA grew by 132.1%  
to €37 .6 million as we started to benefit from 
our development pipeline. 
Portfolio growth 
We significantly extended our presence in the 
affordable luxury hotel market through the 
addition of three hotels to our portfolio. 
In March 2010, Park Plaza Westminster 
Bridge London was partially opened to 
paying guests, followed by its full opening  
in September 2010. As at 31 December 2010, 
we completed the sale of 535 units, with 484 
units having been retained by the Group. 
The newly built art’otel cologne in Germany 
opened in March 2010. Located in a prime 
location on the bank of the River Rhine,  
this hotel offers 218 rooms, excellent  
meeting facilities and has received very 
encouraging customer feedback. 
In April 2010, we acquired with a joint 
venture partner a large conference hotel 
with 342 rooms near Amsterdam Schiphol 
Airport. The hotel was rebranded Park Plaza 
Amsterdam Airport immediately following 
our acquisition.
In addition to these new hotels added to 
our portfolio in the year, in August 2010, 
we acquired the freehold and headlease 
interests of Park Plaza Leeds and Park 
Plaza Nottingham. Prior to this acquisition 
both hotels were operated, and continue 
to be operated, by us under long-term 
management agreements. 
On 31 December 2010, we acquired the 
remaining joint venture interests in, and 
shareholder loans related to, Park Plaza 
Victoria London, Park Plaza Riverbank 
London (including Plaza on the River) and 
Park Plaza Sherlock Holmes London. 
Strengthening the brands 
Our teams continued to maximise the 
benefits available through our strategic 
partnership with Carlson, one of the world’s 
leading travel and hospitality companies, 
which provides us with access to a state-of-
the-art reservation and global distribution 
platform as well as participation in global 
sales and marketing programmes. Room 
revenue generated via Carlson’s reservation 
system has continued to increase, and  
now accounts for approximately 40%  
of our room revenue. 
This growth is primarily driven by increased 
online marketing initiatives and our active 
engagement in the Club Carlson
SM
 (the former 
goldpoints plus™) guest reward programme. 
In 2010, this programme provided us with 
access to a marketing database of over 
6.3 million guests, an increase of 24% in 
number of members compared to 2009. 
Carlson is planning to double the size of 
Club Carlson
SM
 to 10 million members 
by 2013. Our hotels collectively signed up 
over 47 ,500 new members in 2010 alone. 
Various enhancements to the programme 
have made it one of the most attractive in 
the industry and it is now easier and faster 
for guests to collect and redeem points at 
any Carlson hotel. In early 201 1 a dedicated 
Club Carlson
SM
 App for mobile devices was 
launched marking the Park Plaza
®
 brand’s 
debut in this space.
We have also invested in our internal 
marketing resources and in particular in  
our online marketing team to grow the 
revenue contribution of both the Park Plaza
®
  
and art’otel
® 
websites. 
Service excellence
Core to our business is the quality of service 
standards and level of guest satisfaction. In 
2008 we introduced a leading online guest 
satisfaction survey system, enabling us to 
monitor and improve our guests’ experience. 
Nearly 39,000 guest surveys were completed 
during the year, a 35% year on year increase, 
and all new hotels and several franchised 
hotels were added to the system in the 
year. We are very proud to report that we 
continued to increase our scores across all  
key performance indicators for guest 
satisfaction, service and product 
performance and guest loyalty. 
4   Park Plaza Hotels Annual Report 2010 Our staff are responsible for the increased 
guest satisfaction levels and their constant 
focus on delivering a high quality service  
has paid off. 
We actively engage with our employees and 
with the number of employees increasing 
by 29% (primarily as a result of the new 
openings), it was vital to successfully deliver 
new uniformed introduction welcome 
packs and our Connect! service training 
programme. We were successful in delivering 
these essential tools on time and we are 
proud to report that overall employee 
satisfaction has increased year on year  
by 2.7% to a healthy 81.0%.
Our development projects
Alongside the three new hotel openings in the 
year we continued to invest in the planning 
and development of new hotel openings as 
well as renovation and refurbishment projects 
in order to further enhance the quality of  
our hotel portfolio and these projects 
continue in 201 1. 
In the United Kingdom, construction work 
for the 352 room art’otel
®
 located in the 
Hoxton area of London is due to commence 
in 201 1 and the hotel is scheduled to open in 
2013. Refurbishment projects are planned at 
Park Plaza Leeds and Park Plaza Nottingham 
following our acquisition of these hotels in 
August 2010.
In the Netherlands we are investing 
approximately €25.0 million in our portfolio 
in the construction of the art’otel amsterdam 
and extensive refurbishment programmes for 
the flagship Park Plaza Victoria Amsterdam, 
the newly acquired Park Plaza Amsterdam 
Airport, the centrally located Park Plaza 
Utrecht and our inaugural hotel, Park  
Plaza Eindhoven. 
In Germany and Hungary, work has 
commenced on a 60 room extension 
at art’otel berlin city center west and a 
renovation programme will commence at 
art’otel budapest. Progress in development 
of Park Plaza Nuremberg continues and the 
hotel is expected to open in 2013.
We also continued with several refurbishment 
projects across the Arenaturist portfolio 
during the year. In particular, extensive room 
renovations commenced at Hotel Histria and 
these are due to be completed for the start  
of the 2012 season. At several hotels,  
the restaurants, bars and pool areas were 
also renovated.
Current trading
Whilst the first quarter is historically the 
weakest of the year, we are pleased to report 
that we have continued to trade in line with 
the Board’s expectations during the three 
months to 31 March 201 1. 
As anticipated, trading conditions have 
continued to improve across all markets  
in which we operate. 
In the United Kingdom, RevPAR has grown 
significantly year on year. Notably, our 
London hotels reported a strong increase in 
average room rate and we are now seeing the 
true benefits from the fully operational Park 
Plaza Westminster Bridge London. 
In the Netherlands, RevPAR has also 
increased compared with the first quarter 
of 2010, a result of improved average room 
rates at all of our hotels in the Netherlands. 
EBITDA declined due to fewer rooms being 
available at Park Plaza Victoria Amsterdam 
and Park Plaza Eindhoven as a result of 
extensive renovations in the first quarter.  
The majority of rooms closed for renovations 
are now open and management is confident 
that we will strongly benefit from these 
improved hotels. 
In Germany and Hungary, RevPAR at our 
hotels during the first quarter improved 
significantly compared to the first quarter in 
2010. This is a particularly good performance 
considering that last year’s RevPAR 
performance in Germany was supported 
by the government’s VAT reduction. The 
reported growth in RevPAR is a result of 
increased average room rates and has been 
further improved by the art’otel cologne 
which opened mid March 2010. 
The EBITDA loss was also reduced during the 
first quarter of 201 1 as we started to benefit 
from renegotiated lease agreements and 
improved trading conditions. 
Our Management and Holdings  
Operation has performed in line with  
the Board’s expectations. 
Looking forward, we remain focused on 
continuing to improve overall performance, 
fundamentally by growing average room 
rates and maintaining careful cost control. 
We will continue to progress our confirmed 
development projects and are actively 
exploring new growth opportunities. 
Boris Ivesha 
President and Chief Executive Officer
Park Plaza Hotels Annual Report 2010   5
