 Governance 18–28 Financial Statements 29–60 Annual General Meeting 61–63
Armour Group plc Annual Report 2009 7 
Business Review 1–17
Chief Executive’s Review
Given that our target markets of electrical 
retailing, house building and automotive 
are some of the hardest hit by the 
downturn, these results represent a very 
creditable performance, underlining  
the strength of our business model  
and endorsing the strategy pursued  
by the Group.
The impact of the economic downturn  
in our markets was recognised early  
and met with decisive action by the 
management teams throughout the 
Group. Our operating plans were adapted 
to meet the worsening economic climate. 
This does not represent a change to  
the Group’s strategy , rather a focus and 
emphasis on areas that have protected 
profitability and maintained the Group’s 
leading position in its core markets. 
We have taken some difficult decisions 
over the past twelve months including  
a redundancy programme that lowered 
the Group staff numbers by 15%, salary 
freezes and site relocations. There has 
also been investment in the Group, with 
expenditure on new product development 
being at record levels and further 
expansion of our businesses, most 
notably the successful entry into the 
“small office home office” furniture 
market and extension of our business 
activities in Scandinavia.
The Group clearly benefits from the scale 
of its operations. Backed by strong brands 
and product innovation we offer unrivalled 
breadth and depth in our product ranges 
that are sold through a wide multi-
channel sales network. This has been  
a key strength over the past eighteen 
months in remaining profitable and 
maintaining our market leading status. 
We constantly look to strengthen our 
position as the supplier of first choice  
in each of the niche markets we serve. 
This is achieved through a structured  
and forward-looking programme of  
new product development and product 
launches, market leading customer 
service and training programmes for our 
customers that ensures their staff have 
the appropriate knowledge to sell or 
install an Armour supplied product.
Armour Home
Armour Home is the largest division in 
the Group with two operating businesses, 
Armour Home Electronics and Alphason 
Designs, accounting for 75% of the total 
Group sales. The division supplies a range 
of consumer products and accessories  
for the home into the retail and the house 
building markets, primarily in the UK. 
Armour Home Electronics and Alphason 
Designs are recognised as the UK market 
leaders within their niches in the home 
entertainment market.
The retail and the house building markets 
have felt the effects of the economic 
downturn and this in turn has impacted 
on our sales, which are down 3% at  
£38.5 million delivering a profit before  
tax of £3.3 million. Profit margins have 
been under pressure during the year  
from aggressive price based competition, 
a changing sales mix and unfavourable 
exchange rate movements. 
In the year to 31 August 2009 Armour has 
delivered profitable and cash-generative 
results in one of the most difficult trading 
environments in recent memory. 
Armour Home’s profit before tax
£3.3m 8 Armour Group plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Armour Home’s UK retail sales
+5%
Demand in the home automation  
market has been hit hard by the fall in  
the number of new builds as home 
developers have significantly cut their 
operations. Our sales into this channel  
in the UK were down by 14% with our 
Systemline Modular multi-room system, 
which is targeted at the major house 
builders, feeling the full force of the new 
build slowdown. At the higher end of the 
market, demand for our products has 
been less affected, helped by sales of  
our Systemline S6 system, which was 
launched last year and is now well 
established in the market place.  
We have also benefited from securing the 
exclusive distribution, in February 2009,  
of the Imerge range of media servers and 
encouraging sales performances from 
Epson projectors, Sonance speakers,  
the Soundcast wireless iPod system  
and the Nevo range of remote controls.
Sales into the UK retail market have 
performed well given the market 
conditions, ending the year 5% up  
on last year . The biggest area of sales 
growth has come from the Alphason 
range of television stands, where we lead 
the market in the UK by some distance. 
During the year we secured market share 
gains with the national mass market 
retailers as well as in the independent 
retailer channel. Growth of the Alphason 
branded sales was also driven forward  
by the launch of the new “small office 
home office” range of furniture, where we 
secured product listings with three major 
retailers in the office furniture market.
Within the electronics product portfolio 
there were good sales performances from 
Q Acoustics speakers, Goldring and Grado 
headphones as well as the NAD range  
of Hi-Fi separates. Sales of our brand 
leading QED cable range were down 
year-on-year due to the tough market 
conditions. However , QED continues to  
be a key contributor and remains a core 
brand within the home division.
In the international markets, our sales 
have also found conditions difficult. 
Despite the good progress made in Asia 
and the Middle East, our key markets  
in Scandinavia and Russia slowed 
significantly during the course of the year . 
In Sweden, we have changed a large 
number of our distribution arrangements, 
passing the responsibility from third 
parties to Armour Nordic, our wholly 
owned subsidiary. This change took place 
in April 2009 and the indications to date  
are encouraging.
Once again our home division has 
underlined its market leading position by 
winning a host of industry awards during 
the year . Armour Home Electronics 
collected five of the prestigious What 
Hi-Fi? Sound and Vision awards including 
two “Product of the Year” awards, one  
for the new Q Acoustics 2000 Series 5.1 
speaker package and the other for  
the Grado SR60i headphones. Alphason 
Designs won the ERT Industry Award for 
“Accessories Product of the Year” for its 
Viewsmart product range, which has 
achieved considerable success since  
its launch in 2008. Governance 18–28 Financial Statements 29–60 Annual General Meeting 61–63
Armour Group plc Annual Report 2009 9 
Business Review 1–17
Systemline Modular, Armour Home’s market 
leading multi-room system, can distribute  
up to six discrete sound and video sources  
into multiple rooms in the same home 
simultaneously. Nine of the top ten UK house 
builders have adopted Systemline Modular  
in at least one of their regions. 10 Armour Group plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Armour Auto is the UK’s premier supplier of 
in-car entertainment products and accessories 
to the automotive aftermarket. Its market 
leading “ Autoleads” brand has been at the 
forefront of in-car audio connectivity and 
installation for almost 20 years. Governance 18–28 Financial Statements 29–60 Annual General Meeting 61–63
Armour Group plc Annual Report 2009 11 
Business Review 1–17
Armour Auto
Armour Auto accounts for a quarter of the 
Group’s sales supplying a comprehensive 
range of in-vehicle communication and 
audio-video equipment and accessories 
into the automotive aftermarket and 
commercial vehicle market primarily  
in the UK and Scandinavia. 
In the UK and Sweden, Armour Auto is 
the market leader supplying audio-video 
connectivity solutions into the automotive 
aftermarket.
The automotive market has been a very 
challenging sector over the past twelve 
months with considerable press coverage 
of the difficulties faced. Unsurprisingly 
our sales have suffered in these market 
conditions with a year-on-year fall of 9% 
to £13.1 million, which generated a small 
profit of £0.1 million. As in Armour Home, 
profit margins have been depressed by 
tough competition fighting on price and  
a much weaker sterling to dollar 
exchange rate. 
In the retail channel, which accounts for 
69% of the divisional sales, the sales 
performance has been mixed. Sales to 
the key national accounts fell in line  
with weaker consumer demand, but this 
fall was compounded by the trading 
difficulties of one of our second tier 
national accounts where sales were 
significantly below last year . In the 
independent specialist retail channel, 
sales have increased for the second year 
in a row, growing by 9% and helped by a 
full year’s contribution from the Directed 
portfolio of products, the distribution of 
which was secured in July 2008. 
Conditions in the OEM market have  
been tough with sales declining by 16%. 
The decline reflects the slowdown in  
the market, with a number of our key 
customers in the commercial and 
agricultural vehicle markets seeing 
demand fall and consequently cutting 
their production schedules. Nonetheless, 
Armour Auto has been successful in 
winning new business mainly in the 
agricultural vehicle market in Europe. 
Whilst volumes have started below our 
expectations due to the economic climate, 
the medium to long-term prospects for 
this new business are good.
Sales of our iO range of in-vehicle 
Bluetooth music streaming and 
handsfree solutions gathered momentum 
as the year progressed. Our UK reseller 
network has expanded across both the 
retail and vehicle distribution channels. 
Internationally we are also seeing 
demand increase with good progress 
being made through our partner in 
Australia and an encouraging first few 
months in North America. The product 
line up has been extended to include a 
range of accessories focused on power 
charging and Bluetooth streaming for 
mobile devices with further new products 
planned for 2010. The expansion of our 
reseller network will accelerate in 2010 
and we remain confident that the outlook 
for iO continues to be very positive.
In July 2009 we were appointed the 
exclusive distributor for the high-end 
Focal brand of in-car audio products.  
The Focal brand complements our 
existing range of products under the 
Mutant, Kicker and Orion brands and 
gives Armour Auto full market coverage 
across all price points in the UK in-car 
audio market. In addition, it strengthens  
our leading position as the supplier of 
first choice for in-car audio products  
and accessories.
Armour Nordic sales
+22% 12 Armour Group plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Armour Nordic, our business in 
Scandinavia that forms part of Armour 
Auto, has had an excellent year 
comfortably exceeding last year with sales 
up 22%. During the year we expanded  
its responsibilities, extending the 
geographical reach to include Norway 
and adding a number of Armour Home’s 
brands to the portfolio for distribution 
across Scandinavia. The prospects for  
this business are good and the early 
indications of extending the product range 
in the home portfolio are very promising.
Armour Auto, like Armour Home, has 
won a number of awards. At its industry’s 
annual award ceremony , the ME awards, 
Armour Auto won eleven awards 
including Best UK Business, which  
once again emphasises our market 
leading position.
New Product Development
New product development is a key part  
of our strategy for delivering sustainable 
long-term growth for the Group. Over  
the past year we have maintained our 
investment in all our core development 
programmes, with the total invested 
being a record amount for the Group.  
This may appear at odds with the 
economic turmoil in the wider world, but 
we believe this significant investment will 
give the Group a competitive advantage as 
economic recovery takes hold. The Group 
has an ambitious schedule of new 
product launches over the next eighteen 
months with the technology platforms 
currently under development being 
central to the delivery of these products. 
The focus of this development is in the 
wireless delivery of content and the 
planned new products launches will  
come from both operating divisions.
Outlook
The first signs of economic recovery are 
beginning to be seen, although in all 
likelihood any recovery will be slow and 
not without setbacks. In our markets, 
which have been particularly hard hit by 
the economic downturn, we are starting 
to see some improvement in almost all 
areas. This recovery , taken together with 
the new business won across the Group 
and our commitment to delivering new 
products into our markets, are good 
grounds for cautious optimism with 
regard to the Group’s prospects over  
the coming year .
George Dexter
Chief Executive  
23 November 2009
Awards won by Armour Auto  
in 2009
 1 1 Governance 18–28 Annual General Meeting 61–63
Armour Group plc Annual Report 2009 13 
Business Review 1–17
Financial Statements 29–60
27% of Armour Auto’s sales are through non-retail 
channels including European manufacturers of 
leisure, commercial and agricultural vehicles. 
Products include CD/radios, DVD players, 
speakers, antennae, rear vision cameras and 
reversing sensor systems. In the agricultural 
vehicle market, Armour Auto supplies four of  
the top six European manufacturers. 
