 4 Armour Group plc Annual Report 2009
Chairman’s Statement
Basic earnings per ordinary share were 
1.4p (2008: 3.7p) and the proposed full 
year dividend is 0.30p (2008: 0.65p).  
The Group generated £7.2 million of  
cash from operations (2008: £3.1 million) 
with net debt falling by £4.0 million to  
£4.9 million at 31 August 2009.
The Group’s profitable and cash 
generative performance, whilst  
reflecting the difficulties in the  
economic environment, has also  
clearly demonstrated the resilience  
and strength of our business model.  
This model is based upon strong brands, 
quality products backed by innovation, 
unrivalled distribution and excellent 
customer service. Taken together , these 
fundamental strengths are a key part of 
our strategy and the foundation of our 
leading positions in our niches within  
the home and automotive consumer 
product markets.
During the year we successfully managed 
our way through a variety of unfavourable 
events which have included a tightening 
of credit facilities, significant exchange 
rate volatility , a collapse in consumer 
confidence and demand and fierce price 
competition in particular sectors of our 
target markets.
We responded to the deteriorating market 
conditions in a measured and responsible 
manner with the objective of protecting 
profitability without damaging the longer 
term prospects of the Group. We reduced 
our cost base, selectively increased 
product pricing and maintained our 
investment in the key new product 
development programmes, which we 
believe will drive future growth.
Whilst the headlines for the year have 
been dominated by the impact of the 
economic downturn, there has been a 
considerable amount of good news for  
the Group. This includes a significant 
amount of new business won across all 
the operations with both new and existing 
customers; the successful launch of our 
“small office home office” furniture 
range; over £1 million of additional future 
annual revenue secured through new 
distribution agreements signed in the 
year; the expansion of our operations in 
Scandinavia; and the launch of a series of 
new products, the most exciting of which 
is QTV2 (www.qacoustics.co.uk/q-tv.htm).
The Group employs over 300 loyal and 
dedicated colleagues throughout our 
operations in the UK, Ireland, Scandinavia 
and the Far East, all of whom have 
responded positively to a challenging 
time. The results for the year just  
ended are a credit to their hard work, 
enthusiasm and professionalism and  
on behalf of the Board I thank them all.
The economic outlook is becoming 
brighter , with most economic indicators, 
both at home and abroad, showing 
positive signs of recovery. The Group has 
positioned itself well to take advantage  
of the recovery with new products, new 
contracts, new customers and new 
channels to market. The 2010 financial 
year has started well and whilst there  
will undoubtedly be further turbulence  
in the wider economic environment,  
the Board remains confident with regard 
to the future prospects for the Group.
Bob Morton
Chairman  
23 November 2009
We are pleased to report that despite an 
extremely challenging year to 31 August  
2009, Group sales were £51.6 million (2008:  
£54.0 million) and profit from operations  
was £1.5 million (2008: £4.0 million). Governance 18–28 Financial Statements 29–60 Annual General Meeting 61–63
Armour Group plc Annual Report 2009 5 
Business Review 1–17
From mass market to specialist independent 
retailers, Armour products can be found 
throughout the UK’s high streets in over 
6,000 retail outlets. 6 Armour Group plc Annual Report 2009
Armour Home’s products won a host of industry 
awards during the year underlining its market 
leading position. These included five of the 
prestigious What Hi-Fi? Sound and Vision awards 
and the ERT Industry award for “ Accessories 
Product of the Year” for its Viewsmart range.  
