 Chairman’s Statement
14 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Sir Malcolm Bates
Chairman (retired 28.02.05) 
John R Hirst
Group Chief Executive 
D John S Roques
Non-Executive Director
Laurence Bain 
Group Chief Operating Officer 
William B Korb
Non-Executive Director
Board of Directors and Officers
For full biographies of the Board of Directors and
Officers see page 32
The Group has continued to make good progress this year. We achieved growth in sales, and profit before
tax has increased by 10 per cent on last year, despite the continued weakness of the US dollar and
the disappointing performance of BuckHickman InOne. The North American electronics market was
strong in the first half of the year, but the rate of growth started to slow in the third quarter and
was very limited by the year-end. Nonetheless, we grew sales in our Marketing and Distribution
Division in North America by 11.7 per cent in the year and continued to improve gross margins. Sales
at Farnell InOne reached record levels, despite the slow down of European markets in the second half.
Sales were particularly strong in mainland Europe. BuckHickman InOne had a difficult trading year,
but sales levels stabilised towards the end of the year.
Profit before tax in the year was £60.3 million (2004: £54.8 million). Profit
before tax and goodwill amortisation was £63.0 million (2004: £57.3 million
before goodwill amortisation and gain on business disposal).
Earnings per share for the year were up 22 per cent to 11.0 pence
(2004: 9.0 pence). Adjusted earnings per share for the year (before
amortisation of goodwill) were 11.7 pence (2004: 10.2 pence before
amortisation of goodwill, rebranding costs and gain on business disposal).
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.0 pence (2004: 5.0 pence)
making a total for the year of 9.0 pence (2004: 9.0 pence). The dividend is
covered 1.2 times by profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and
1.3 times by profit attributable to ordinary shareholders before goodwill
amortisation. The final dividend is payable on 22nd June 2005 to
shareholders on the register on 27th May 2005.
Financial results
Group sales for the year were £776.7 million (2004: £764.6 million).
This comprised sales of £680.0 million in the Marketing and Distribution
Division and sales of £96.7 million in the Industrial Products Division.
Operating profit for the year was £73.8 million (2004: £69.0 million),
producing an operating margin of 9.5 per cent (2004: 9.0 per cent).
Adjusted operating profit for the year was £76.5 million before goodwill
amortisation of £2.7 million (2004: £74.0 million before rebranding costs
of £2.4 million and goodwill amortisation of £2.6 million), producing an
adjusted operating margin of 9.8 per cent (2004: 9.7 per cent). Operating
profit was affected by a reduction in the net pension credit of £1.3 million
and a £0.8 million increase in depreciation following the roll-out of the
customer relationship management software. Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 15
Michael Lester
Non-Executive Director 
Andrew C Fisher
Group Finance Director 
Cary J Nolan
Non-Executive Director 
Sir Peter Gershon 
Chairman
Steven Webb
Company Secretary and General Counsel 
Balance Sheet and Cash Flow
The Group’ s financial position is sound. Net debt at 30th January 2005
was £200.7 million (1st February 2004: £201.9 million) and interest was
covered 5.7 times by operating profit before goodwill amortisation. Net
cash flow from operating activities was £72.5 million (2004: £70.0 million).
Working capital increased by £19.9 million, driven by investment in
inventory to support an expansion of our product range and sales
growth in the year . Net cash outflow, after dividends and £2.6 million
of acquisitions, was £7.0 million.
Acquisition
In February 2004, we acquired the business of GFE Manufacturing Inc.,
an Illinois-based supplier of lighting systems and water flow test
equipment for the fire-fighting industry , for £2.6 million. This acquisition,
which expanded Akron Brass’ s product range, has exceeded
expectations for sales and profit.
Business progress
We continue to make good progress on our strategic priorities. During the
year , we have focused on developing our business with larger corporate
accounts, expanding our presence with smaller customers, improving
product ranges and providing industry-leading service through our
eCommerce capability and our more traditional marketing channels.
The Operating Review on pages 16 to 20, provides the details of our
achievements in these areas.
Staff
Since joining the Board in June 2004, I have been impressed by the
quality and excellent commitment of our staff. On behalf of the Board,
I would like to thank all our employees for their continued hard work
during another demanding year .
Sir Malcolm Bates retired as Chairman in February after eight years during
which he steered the Group through significant change and led the
transformation of the business. On behalf of all the Group’ s shareholders,
Directors and employees, I would like to thank him for his wise advice,
counsel and guidance and wish him a long and happy retirement.
Outlook
We have prepared our plans for the coming year in the expectation that
the North American market will show no growth in the first half and may
only begin to strengthen in the second half of the year . Despite weaker
underlying markets in the UK and mainland Europe there are specific
opportunities for the Group to grow market share. The actions we have
taken should lead to a better performance from BuckHickman InOne.
The impending legislation on the Restriction of the use of certain
Hazardous Substances (RoHS) will have a significant impact in a number
of our main markets. Premier Farnell has been working closely with
suppliers to provide leadership in assisting customers prepare for the
legislation. We believe that we are well placed to offer our customers and
suppliers the information, support and product choice they require to
comply with the legislation.
The quality of our service to both customers and suppliers is increasingly
underpinned by the technology infrastructure that has been put in place.
The significant operational improvements and increased marketing
effectiveness built into the business over recent years give us confidence
that we can continue to improve our performance and our market shares.
Sir Peter Gershon
Chairman
