 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT PREMIER FARNELL PLC 05
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT
REAL PROGRESS IN A DIFFICUL T YEAR
Sir Malcolm Bates
Chairman
Overview
This year can be characterised as one of
significant achievement in difficult trading
environments. Whilst our markets remained
weak or patchy for most of the year, the Group
achieved a 3.5 per cent increase in sales per
day year-on-year. This reflects the Group’s
progress in winning market share in Europe
and, amid signs of a recovery in the market, a
stronger performance from our North American
operations in the final quarter of the year.
During the year, the Group also concluded a
four year investment programme. Activities this
year have included the implementation of major
information systems in the UK and US, the
opening of a new distribution centre in China,
the full automation of the new distribution
centre in Europe and a substantial increase in
product ranges. This programme has
transformed the Group’s potential. Our
businesses are now equipped with a far greater
ability to understand the needs of their
customers and the flexibility to offer products
and services that meet those needs. In
addition, the brands of some of the Group’s
major businesses were brought together under
a new brand suffix, InOne, reflecting the
increasing co-ordination of our activities.
Financial results
Group sales for the year were £764.6 million
(2003: £759.0 million). This comprised sales of
£668.2 million in the Marketing and Distribution
Division and sales of £96.4 million in the
Industrial Products Division.
Operating profit for the year was £68.8 million
(2003: £80.3 million), producing an operating
margin of 9.0 per cent (2003: 10.6 per cent).
Adjusted operating profit for the year was
£73.8 million (2003: £82.9 million) before
rebranding costs of £2.4 million and goodwill
amortisation of £2.6 million, producing an
adjusted operating margin of 9.7 per cent
(2003: 10.9 per cent). Operating profit was
affected by the increased depreciation following
the roll-out of the customer relationship
management software and investment in the
Liège distribution centre.
Profit before tax in the year was £54.6 million
(2003: £59.8 million). Profit before tax, goodwill
amortisation and gain/loss on business
disposals was £57.1 million (2003: £67.2 million).
Earnings per share for the year were 8.9 pence
(2003: 9.3 pence). Adjusted earnings per share
for the year (before rebranding costs,
amortisation of goodwill and the gain/loss on
business disposals) were 10.1 pence
(2003: 11.2 pence).
The Board is recommending a final dividend of
5.0 pence (2003: 5.0 pence) making a total for
the year of 9.0 pence (2003: 9.0 pence). The
dividend is covered 1.0 times by profit
attributable to ordinary shareholders and
1.1 times by profit attributable to ordinary
shareholders before goodwill amortisation and
profit on disposal of businesses. The final
dividend is payable on 23rd June 2004 to
shareholders on the register on 28th May 2004.
Balance Sheet
The Group’s financial position is sound. Net
debt at 1st February 2004 was £201.9 million
(2003: £209.2 million) and interest was covered
5.2 times by operating profit before one-off
rebranding costs and goodwill amortisation. In
June 2003, the Group raised $225 million of
new financing in the US private placement
market. The funds raised were used to repay
other borrowings.
Business progress
During the year, the Group has focussed on
growing business with larger corporate
accounts, developing its eCommerce capability
and extending its product portfolio.
We achieved strong growth in corporate
accounts by strengthening existing relationships
and winning significant new business. Our
capabilities in vendor-managed inventory and
eProcurement create a powerful proposition
that has enabled us to add customers
including Bombardier, The UK Atomic Energy
Authority and Tarmac. In addition, sales to the
US Federal Government, Newark InOne’s
largest customer, increased by over 14 per cent
during the year.
eCommerce sales per day were up 52 per cent
year on year within the Marketing and
Distribution Division, reaching £71 million during
the period. This business was transacted
through the 282 live eProcurement partnerships
that we have in place with larger customers,
and with many other customers via our
web sites.
In order to support higher levels of customer
service, we extended product ranges across
the Marketing and Distribution Division during
the year. This was most evident in the
Americas, where we added a total of 56,000
products to Newark InOne’s portfolio, bringing
the total to some 160,000.
Staff
The commitment of staff across the Group has
been impressive and, on behalf of the Board, I
would like to thank all our employees for their
effort during a demanding year. This effort has
also been recognised externally by a number of
prestigious awards from suppliers and industry
bodies alike, discussed in the Operating Review.
We were pleased to welcome Laurence Bain,
Group Chief Operating Officer, to the Board on
1 July 2003. Sir Robert Horton, Deputy
Chairman, is retiring from the Board after
completing nine years of distinguished service
and we are grateful to him for his sterling
contribution and wise counsel throughout his
time as a Director.
Outlook
The investment programme of the past few
years has provided a platform from which to
drive growth. It has also created capacity in
systems and distribution centres to
accommodate sales increases. The Group
has already demonstrated the ability to assist
large and small customers to improve their
productivity and is well positioned to take
advantage of growth opportunities in its key
markets as they develop during the current
year. Our focus is now firmly on disciplined and
efficient programmes to ensure that those
opportunities are seized.
We enter a new year confident that, should the
market recovery be sustained, the Group’s
operational gearing should enable us to deliver
value for customers and shareholders alike.
