 John Hirst
Group Chief Executive
In recent years, the focus of Premier Farnell’ s
business has evolved from managing just the
physical flow of goods from supplier to
customer to exploiting the vast amount of
knowledge and data available to us through the
use of sophisticated information technology .
Many of our activities are increasingly integrated
with those of our customers and suppliers and
together we are creating seamless purchase
and supply processes.
We now offer all our customers greater
ease of doing business and more reliable
service. For example, we enable customers to
reduce significantly the expense of managing
sometimes hundreds, or even thousands, of
small orders placed with us. For many , we can
now offer a new source of value: visibility and
confidence in what is being purchased by
designers, maintenance engineers and
procurement professionals across their
organisations.
The understanding of customer needs is
enabling us to offer suppliers a clearer view of
their markets. We can help new products find
their target market quicker and more effectively .
Major suppliers now consider us an extension
of their marketing activities.
Thus our potential depends, more than ever ,
upon the quality of our relationships with
customers and suppliers. The talent of our
people, our use of information technology and
our total service will determine our success.
These three areas have been the focus of our
investment over recent years.
Talent
T alent provides the only basis for long-term
success. Month by month, we improve the
quality and effectiveness of our operations
through disciplined management and the
sharing of expertise across the Group.
We work hard to attract and retain the very best
people. We have transformed many of our
practices for recruitment, development and
reward. We share four core values – totally
reliable, resourceful, intuitive and with
integrity – that underpin everything we do in the
organisation. Identified by our customers, they
are an enduring point of reference for all
employees.
Technology
Over several years we have invested some
£40 million in leading edge information systems.
– Customer relationship management
systems give us insight into the composition
of our customer base and the needs and
behaviours of individual customers and
groups. We give them better service because
the information that we need is at our
fingertips.
– Global product database and publishing
systems make the management of our
portfolio of some 400,000 individual products
far more effective; we can now add new
products weekly . A single system now
manages publication of product details to our
catalogues, flyers, CDs and to the web. The
process is fast, accurate and flexible –
essential attributes in the dynamic markets
in which we operate.
Chief Executive’s Review
Strategy for growth
12 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
  – Robust back office systems now give us
complete visibility of the inventories that we
carry . They enable us to improve our service
and are crucial in the effective management of
our inventories and logistics processes.
– A single eCommerce platform. We are
progressively migrating all our eCommerce
services onto a single platform. As the
platform develops, it supports all of our
web sites, as well as a growing number of
bespoke eProcurement solutions. The roll-out
of a common web search engine across the
Group was an important step this year .
The rapid growth in our eCommerce sales,
up 56 per cent this year in the Marketing and
Distribution Division, is testament to the
quality of the service that we can already offer .
In the fourth quarter of the year , eCommerce
accounted for 17 per cent of sales in that
Division.
T otal service
T otal service is the core of our proposition.
Having an enormous range of products in
stock, coupled with quick and reliable delivery ,
is only the start.
Premier Farnell aims consistently to offer service
in line with the best available in our markets.
This year we have launched a programme to
set new standards in service for ourselves and
for the industry . The programme is based upon
a variety of metrics that cover all aspects of our
customers’ experience. We expect this
programme to create a new benchmark within
our industry .
We are also building our value-added services
for customers. Of particular focus this year , we
aim to be the first place our customers turn to
for help to navigate through the complexities
arising from the European Directive restricting
the use of certain hazardous substances in
electrical and electronic equipment (RoHS
Directive) and similar requirements in a number
of our other key markets.
The better our service, the more opportunities
we unlock as customers gain the confidence to
rely on us.
Market opportunities
Most markets in which we currently operate
are highly fragmented. Although one of the
leaders, we typically have small market shares
and considerable opportunity for market
share growth.
The growing insight we have into our customer
base enables us to define and target new
market segments, tailoring the right product
range and service to appeal to them. For
example, in the UK we have captured a large
share of the higher education market through a
bespoke service for that market. In North
America we have dramatically increased
product ranges to meet the needs of electronic
design engineers.
Our international distribution networks
mean that we can build a presence in new
geographic markets without heavy investment
in further warehousing and inventory . The ability
to utilise existing assets across a growing
business has been demonstrated through the
opening of our offices in Italy and Spain in
recent years.
Increasingly , our largest customers want us to
support their operations internationally . We are
happy to help. Servicing their needs is helping
us create a foundation from which to expand
into growth markets such as China.
Acquisitions
Whilst organic growth is fundamental to our
strategy, we will use selected acquisitions to
accelerate our growth and develop our
proposition. We look for acquisitions that
increase our capability in selected countries,
add valuable product and service knowledge or
reach attractive market segments.
The measures of our success
We aim to:
– grow our market share consistently in order
to achieve the number one or two position in
our markets
– operate only in markets that value high
service sufficiently to sustain our pricing
proposition
– establish global coverage to support our key
customers and suppliers
– deliver a superior return on sales sufficient to
provide investment to fuel growth
– act as responsible corporate citizens.
In this way , we are confident that we will deliver
superior growth, profitability and shareholder
value.
John Hirst
Group Chief Executive
Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13
