 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009  Stock code: PFD 08
Chief Executive’s statement
DELIVERING
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Our vision is to be “the best in British food with brands you 
really love”.
Business Model
Now that the integration of the RHM and Campbell’s 
businesses is behind us, we are focused on demonstrating 
our business model and on delivering organic growth over the 
next three years. Our business model to deliver this growth is:
“The Group’s strategy remains unchanged. The Group has 
acquired a wide portfolio of well-known brands, many of which 
have leading positions in their markets, widespread distribution 
through a large number of customers and a scale advantaged 
supply chain throughout the UK. This forms the platform for 
growing our brands and generating future earnings growth.”
Robert Schofield, Chief Executive
➜
 
 to grow our branded sales faster than their respective 
markets by investing in and strengthening our brands 
and their relevance to today’s consumers;
➜
 
 to gain competitive advantage by utilising our 
consumer insight and scale to deliver value to 
customers and to work more effectively with suppliers;
➜
  
to deliver efficiency benefits such that supply chain 
costs and overheads are held flat or decline while 
volumes grow; and as a result
➜
  
to focus on cash generation and debt reduction.
Successfully delivering this model will drive sales growth, will 
improve gross margin, will increase operating profit and will 
enable us to reduce debt over the next few years. 
Branded Sales
To drive branded sales growth, we will concentrate our 
investment into the areas with the greatest growth potential. 
We judge this potential by a combination of size and growth 
prospects of the category and the competitive strength of
our brands. 
Drive We have identified five Drive categories 
categories which are large and in which we believe
 we can grow ahead of the market.
Core We have identified four Core categories
categories which have more moderate growth potential
 but in which we have strong market shares.
 We aim to grow in line with these markets.
Defend The remaining Defend categories have
categories lower growth prospects and our aim is to 
 maintain our market position. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.premierfoods.co.uk 09
Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information
Our brand investment will be prioritised in relation to the 
competitive strength and growth prospects of the brands. The 
brands which we aim to invest behind in Drive categories are 
referred to as Drive brands. Other brands which will receive 
a more moderate level of investment are referred to as Core 
brands. Brands which will receive minimal investment are 
referred to as Defend brands.
Some brands in the Drive categories will play a supporting 
role, will receive less investment than other Drive brands 
and will be treated as Core brands. In addition, we have a 
number of smaller brands which, although they compete in 
the higher growth categories, are included within the Defend 
classification as, due to their size, they are less likely to receive 
significant investment.
Category Size £m
47.9% 2% 6% 652 Total
Convenience
meals
298
Stock 97
Pickles and
Relish
131
Gravy 126
3 year
category growth rate
6% 2%
14% 12%
Value Volume
6% 0%
3% 0%
Premier’s
value share
44.8%
38.8%
36.8%
74.1%
Premier 
brand
Batchelors
Oxo
Branston
Bisto
Why this is a Core category
We have a strong share position.
We have a strong share position.
We have a strong share position.
We have a strong, though contested, share position 
and the category is in strong growth.
Category Size £m
CORE CATEGORIES
We believe that we can grow volumes of Drive brands in 
total by at least 1 to 2 percentage points ahead of the overall 
category growth rates. We aim to grow Core and Defend 
brands in line with their markets.
■ Drive Brands
£840m
■ Core Brands 
 £400m
■ Defend Brands
 £438m
of total sales
Brand categories
The categories and brands are as follows: 
Premier 
brand
Hovis
Ambrosia
Hartley’s
Quorn
Sharwood’s
Lloyd 
Grossman
Mr Kipling
Category
3 year
category growth rate Size £m
Why this is a Drive category
A very large category and we have the No. 2 brand.
A fast growing, large category where we are the 
No. 2 manufacturer.
A large category where we have the largest brand. 
Growth opportunity in snacking and lunch box.
Strong branded position with growth opportunity 
behind individual desserts/snacking and lunch box.
Strong branded position. Growth opportunity 
through increased consumption by vegetarians, 
meat reducers, healthy eaters and international 
expansion.
Bread
Cooking sauces
Cake
Meat-free
1,826
1,041
1,018
209
9%
7%
1%
2%
0%
3%
-2%
0%
Ambient desserts 301 6% 1%
Value Volume
Premier’s
value share
26.6%
18.1%
26.9%
51.1%
66.8%
28.2% 1% 6% 4,394 Total
DRIVE CATEGORIES
63.1% Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009  Stock code: PFD 10
Chief Executive’s statement continued
If the categories continued to perform in line with the last 
three years, we would in total expect to be able to grow our 
Drive brands by between 2% and 4% p.a. in volume, our 
Core brands in line with the market, i.e. at 2% p.a., and keep 
our Defend volumes flat.
We will use this categorisation of brands dynamically as 
market opportunities develop and hence brands may 
play different roles at different times. Using this brand 
architecture, we believe that in total we can grow our 
branded sales faster than the market. 
Competitive advantage through scale
Premier Foods is the UK’s largest supplier of ambient 
grocery goods. Our business model is to utilise this scale for 
competitive advantage. We believe we can use our scale to 
reduce costs and working capital by procuring more effectively. 
Our focus on the UK and our presence in a broad range 
of categories gives us a deep insight into consumer trends 
in British food. This insight enables us to work closely with 
customers as their chosen category development partners 
across our priority markets. We are currently lead category 
partner across Drive and Core categories in several major 
customers working with them on recommendations regarding 
range, space, merchandising and promotional strategies. 
The Group also has scale in retailer branded and business 
to business products. These businesses are an important 
element of the strategy as they utilise capacity, 
contribute expertise in product innovation, 
help to build relationships with 
customers, enhance buying scale 
and contribute towards overheads. 
Over the last three years, the retailer brand categories in 
which we compete have declined by 1% in volume. The 
objective is to generate sales in line with total retailer brand 
performance in the relevant categories over the medium term. 
Nevertheless, sales in any one period are likely to be more 
volatile given periodic contract gains and losses as we seek 
to manage the best balance between profit and retailer brand 
sales volumes. 
Improve efficiency
We have integrated the RHM and Campbell’s supply chains into 
our Grocery business and have delivered synergies as a result. 
The next stage of the strategy is to extract organic efficiency 
savings from the restructured footprint. We believe there are 
substantial opportunities to achieve benefits not only from raw 
material procurement but also from supply chain operations. 
Manufacturing controllable costs in Grocery were £273m in 
2009. This includes direct labour, overheads, wastage and 
logistics. Our aim is to deliver efficiency savings of around 4% 
p.a. from these controllable costs. We believe that this will 
exceed not only overhead inflation in a normal year but also the 
variable costs of incremental volume. We will also continue to 
improve our customer service, technical and health and safety 
standards which will add further to competitive advantage. 
Our support functions are already relatively low cost with the 
integration programme having focused on removing duplication. 
The acquired business processes and systems have, however, 
largely been retained. The implementation and roll-out of SAP 
is beginning to enable more efficient and effective business 
processes, and will give us greater scope to improve the agility 
of the business and reduce administrative costs over the next 
three years.
01  Hovis is the second largest bread brand and the sixth largest food brand 
in the UK.
47.2
million people 
eat a Premier 
branded
product
fortnightly
02 2009 saw a new TV ad campaign for Loyd Grossman putting his 
Bolognese sauce to the test in Bologna, the city where the original
sauce was created. Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.premierfoods.co.uk 11
Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information
These are the two areas in which there is the greatest potential 
for efficiencies but we will strive for efficiencies throughout all 
our businesses. 
Cash generation
In recent years, the operating business cash flows have been 
absorbed by acquisitions and by costs of integration and 
restructuring. The major projects are largely complete. Our 
priority now is to execute the business model outlined above 
enabling us to deliver not only sustained earnings growth but 
also increased cash generation. This will enable us to reduce 
our financial obligations.
Divisional Strategy
Grocery
Within the Grocery division, we have a large portfolio of brands 
with a strong presence in a range of ambient food categories. 
 
In our Drive categories, we believe the biggest immediate 
opportunities lie in cooking sauces & accompaniments, 
desserts and cake. 
With cooking habits increasingly moving towards the 
convenience of cooking with pre-prepared sauces combined 
with fresh ingredients, we believe there is ample room for further 
growth of the market. Loyd Grossman provides a high quality 
product in Italian, Indian and Thai cuisine. Sharwood’s is the 
03 Oxo launched a new X-shaped cube in 2009, the brainwave of a project 
engineer from the Worksop factory.
voice of authoritative discovery in Asian meals, cooking sauces 
and accompaniments. 
Although the cake category has been in decline over the last 
three years, we believe that within both cake and dessert 
categories there are rapidly growing sub-categories comprising 
individual ready-to-eat formats such as sweet snacks or treats 
for one or as components of a lunch box. Ambrosia, Hartley’s 
and Mr Kipling are ideally placed to accelerate the growth in 
these sectors. 
In Core categories we include dry convenience and express 
meals, in which we lead with the Batchelors brand, pickles, 
chutneys and relishes where Branston is the market leader, 
and gravy and stock in which we compete with Bisto and Oxo 
respectively. 
The remainder of the Grocery business is non branded 
including retailer brand and business to business sales. These 
businesses utilise capacity, help to build relationships with 
customers, enhance buying scale and contribute towards 
overheads. 
 
Hovis 
Our vision is to make Hovis the biggest and most loved brand 
in bakery. The strategy is focused around Hovis, as a Drive 
brand, being the best quality bread available and developing 
advertising which connects emotionally with the UK consumer.  Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009  Stock code: PFD 12
Chief Executive’s statement continued
This strategy has succeeded in increasing market share to 
26.6% of the branded bread market in 2009. The strategy 
from here is to continue to innovate in the bakery category. 
Working in conjunction with farmers we have now sourced 
high quality red wheat from the UK to enable us to replace 
wheat which would have otherwise had to be imported. As a 
result, in 2010, our branded range will be made from 100% 
British wheat. These and other product launches should 
continue to improve the brand image and drive growth. 
Growth is also available from expanding in segments of the 
market in which Hovis is underrepresented such as white 
bread. 
Retailer brand bread and bakery goods utilise capacity, 
enhance relationships with customers, add buying scale and 
contribute towards overheads. 
Our Milling business contributes to innovation in Hovis 
bakery and provides expertise in the supply of specialist 
flour. A profitable business, its sales revenue is, by nature, 
volatile as pricing directly reflects input costs. 
The bread market continues to be competitive with a high 
cost distribution model. We believe the industry business 
model needs to change in the medium term. In the 
meantime, we believe that the appropriate strategy is to 
encourage customers and consumers to value the Hovis 
brand above others and to continue to grow the brand. In 
this way we should be able to maximise volume through the 
existing supply chain. In recent years, we have invested in 
modernising our supply chain to support the improvement in 
product quality and volume of sales. In future, we will focus 
on improving supply chain efficiency to mitigate cost inflation. 
Further investment in the infrastructure will be made from 
within the Group’s normal capital budget.
Chilled
The Chilled division comprises the branded Meat-free 
business and the largely retailer brand Brookes Avana chilled 
ready meals and cakes business. 
In Meat-free, Quorn and Cauldron are two major brands within 
the meat alternative market providing a range of products using 
mycoprotein and tofu respectively. Quorn is a Drive brand as we 
believe that it has significant potential in the medium term. The 
core consumer who does not eat meat has many occasions 
on which Quorn can fulfil his or her needs. We intend to focus 
on this market in the first half of this year. The most significant 
opportunity is to tap into those consumers who want to eat 
less meat for reasons of health concern or lifestyle choice. 
Quorn is a healthy alternative to meat and we are working on 
plans to communicate this later in 2010. We are still committed 
to expanding the brand in overseas markets. Cauldron will 
be repackaged in the spring and improvements made to the 
product which we believe will realise the growth potential for 
this brand.
Brookes Avana has three excellent facilities manufacturing 
retailer brand and branded ready meals and cakes. The 
industry is very competitive due to spare capacity. However, 
Brookes Avana has a well-developed set of innovation and 
new product development processes and, in tandem with its 
strong customer relationships, is well placed to use its breadth 
of expertise to deliver further progress in the future.
Robert Schofield
Chief Executive
02 A new TV ad campaign began in September to support the launch of 
Ambrosia “feel good puds”.
01 Bisto granules coming off the production line in Worksop. Bisto is used in 
1.6 bn meals each year.
