 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009  Stock code: PFD 02
Performance
2009 was dominated by concerns over the economy with 
the impact of the financial crisis and the continuing recession 
in the UK.
There was also uncertainty over how this would impact the 
food industry — would consumers switch to discounters and
would they trade down from branded products to own label? 
The growth of discounters, whilst certainly a feature of the 
year, has not been as significant as some had anticipated. 
More important has been the resilience of food brands 
despite the spending pressure on consumers.
In the face of these challenges, I am pleased to report a 
solid performance from the business. We have seen sales of 
£2,661m up 2.2% on 2008. Trading profit for the year was 
£323m, an increase of 4.5% year on year and broadly in line 
with expectations. Branded sales in particular have performed 
strongly in the year, up 6.5% with market share gains in 
many of our key categories. I believe that this is a creditable 
achievement in the current economic climate and a testimony 
both to the success of our strategy of focusing on branded 
sales and also the work and commitment of management and 
employees.
Refinancing
A very important event during the year was the refinancing
of the business which raised approximately £380m under a
placing and open offer announced in March. The refinancing
has been successful both in removing the uncertainty over the
Company’s debt position and also in providing Premier with a
stable position from which to drive performance.
As shareholders will be aware, prior to the refinancing 
the Board considered it appropriate to suspend dividend 
payments. Future payments will be dependent on the 
limitations imposed by our current debt arrangements. 
Board
There have been a number of changes to the Board over the 
last year. Following the refinancing, Warburg Pincus became 
a major shareholder of the Company and under the terms 
of the placing and open offer have the right to nominate the 
appointment of a director to the Board. As a result, in June we 
welcomed Charles Miller Smith as an additional non-executive 
director. Charles has a wealth of experience in both the 
consumer goods and financial markets, which has enabled 
him to make a valuable contribution to the Board and support 
the achievement of the Company’s strategic goals. 
“We have built a stable platform from which to drive branded
growth and deliver shareholder value”
BUILDING
A STRONG BRANDED FOOD COMPANY
David J Kappler, Chairman
Chairman’s statement Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.premierfoods.co.uk 03
Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information
After seven years with the Group, Paul Thomas stepped down 
as Finance Director in August 2009. Paul was instrumental in 
the Company’s flotation in 2004 and contributed significantly 
to the development of the Group. The Board would like to 
thank him for his dedication to Premier and wish him well for 
the future. 
In October Jim Smart was appointed to the Board as Chief 
Financial Officer. Jim, who previously held the role of CFO at 
both Friends Provident plc and Boots Group plc, is a well-
known and respected CFO and has made an immediate and 
positive impact on the Group. 
Christine Cross who was appointed as a non-executive 
director in January 2008 retired from the Board at the end of 
January 2010 in order to take up a new role as Chief Retail 
Adviser to PricewaterhouseCoopers. The Board would like to 
thank Christine for her valuable contribution to the Company.
During the year a new Finance Committee was established to 
provide additional focus and review in respect of the Group’s 
ongoing financial strategy. David Beever was appointed 
Chairman of the Committee which meets quarterly.
Employees
The last few years have been a period of major change for 
employees at Premier as a result of the rationalisation of the 
business following the acquisitions of Campbell’s and RHM. 
Staff across the business have consistently shown great 
tenacity and determination to deal with this change. 
Developing our people and delivering our plans and objectives 
is critical to the success of the Company and to help embed 
a common approach across the business we have developed 
the “Premier Way” which sets out what we believe are the 
most important attributes for our leaders, and this is now 
being embedded in the business. 
In 2008 we launched our first Employee Recognition Awards 
to recognise and reward the significant achievements of 
employees across the Group. It is pleasing to note that over 
100 entries were received and details of the winners, which 
were announced in June 2009, are set out in the employee 
section of this report. The second Employee Recognition 
Awards were launched earlier this year.
In February we opened the new Group-wide shared service 
centre in Manchester. This is the next step in integrating the 
many systems and processes inherited over the years as the 
Company has expanded. Significant progress is being made 
by the team there.
CSR
We have made important strides in the area of corporate 
social responsibility and for the first time have a produced 
a stand-alone CSR report which is available on our website 
www.premierfoods.co.uk. Key achievements in the year have 
been a 5.2% reduction in energy consumption and a 37.7% 
reduction in waste sent to landfill. Further information on our 
achievements can also be found in the CSR section of this 
report.
Looking Forward
There are indications that the UK economic outlook may 
now be improving slightly. Food inflation which has been 
a significant factor over the last couple years, whilst still 
above traditional levels, fell back in the final quarter of 2009. 
However, the outlook for consumers remains uncertain and 
the pressure on spending continues.
We believe that with the integration of the business now 
largely completed we can focus on our business model of 
growing branded sales, using our scale to deliver value to 
customers and gaining efficiency benefits from our supply 
chain.
In addition we have a full programme of product development 
for the coming year designed to help drive sales growth. I am 
confident that 2010 will be a year of significant progress for 
Premier Foods.
Finally, on a personal note, this will be my last report as 
Chairman of Premier Foods as I will be stepping down as 
Chairman following the appointment of a successor during 
the year. After six hugely enjoyable years with the Company, 
I have decided that this is an appropriate time for me to 
stand down. 
In spite of the upheavals in the markets for the last three 
years, I am pleased to say we have adhered to our strategy 
of building a strong branded food company, capable of 
competing in a difficult marketplace. Following a series of 
acquisitions, integration is complete, finances are secure 
and a strong management team is in place. From this stable 
platform, I am confident the Group will deliver and I wish 
them well.
David J Kappler
Chairman
