 4 Armour Group plc Annual Report 2010
The turbulence emanating from the uncertain 
economic environment has again had a major 
impact on the Group’s performance in the 
year 31 August 2010. Whilst it is pleasing to 
report that the Group sales increased to  
£56.6 million (2009: £51.6 million), it is 
disappointing to report that the profit  
from operations fell to £1.2 million (2009:  
£1.5 million). Basic earnings per ordinary 
share were 1.4p (2009: 1.4p). No dividend  
is proposed for the year (2009: 0.30p per 
ordinary share). The Group’s net debt  
at 31 August 2010 was £5.7 million 
(2009: £4.9 million).
Despite the UK moving out of recession in the  
latter part of 2009, the trading environment 
has remained volatile and the Group’s 
results reflect this uncertainty and the 
testing environment.
The Group enjoyed a period of strong sales in 
the run up to Christmas 2009, but experienced 
weak sales during the poor weather in 
January and immediately after the football 
World Cup in July. Managing our operations  
in such an uncertain climate is difficult, 
particularly where our customers themselves 
are struggling to predict buying patterns. 
Chairman’s Statement
Despite the UK moving out of 
recession in the latter part of 
2009, the trading environment 
has remained volatile and the 
Group’s results reflect this 
uncertainty and the testing 
environment.  Business Review Governance Financial Statements Annual General Meeting
5 Armour Group plc Annual Report 2010
The Board has confidence that this review,  
the sales effort in our core brands and the new 
manufacturing facility in China will put us in a 
good position for growth when markets recover .
The sales growth achieved by the Group 
in the year has been encouraging given 
the economic backdrop. This growth has 
come from across the Group and reflects 
investments made during 2009 in products, 
operations and new sales channels.  
In Asia and Scandinavia, our businesses  
grew significantly on the back of the expansion 
of their respective sales operations; our 
successful entry into the office furniture 
market in 2010 contributed over £2 million  
to sales; our automotive sales through the 
agricultural and commercial vehicle channel 
also benefited from an improvement in 
market conditions and reported a year-on-
year sales increase of 17%; and new products 
such as Q-TV2 and our new cable range  
QED Profile helped grow sales in the home 
retail channel.
Despite the sales growth, our profit margins 
have come under pressure from a weaker 
sales mix, additional promotional activity and 
continuing competitive price pressure. We 
have responded to these pressures through 
taking responsible and appropriate action to 
control our cost base and target lowering the 
purchase cost of products from our suppliers. 
The core fundamentals of strong brands, 
quality products, unrivalled distribution and 
excellent customer service all remain true, 
with our key proprietary brands continuing to 
dominate their respective niches in the UK.  
 
 
 
 
 
The Group employs over 300 people in the  
UK, Ireland, Sweden and Hong Kong. It is 
thanks to their hard work, dedication and 
professionalism that the Group continues  
to be successful in these challenging times.  
I would like to acknowledge the Board’s 
appreciation of their commitment and 
effort over the course of the year .
The Group has recently set up a 
manufacturing facility in northern China  
in response to a number of opportunities 
initiated by key customers. Whilst this initiative 
is in its early stages, the response from our 
customers has been encouraging.
The economic outlook remains uncertain and 
challenging in the near term in our core UK 
markets. Whilst there are opportunities for 
the Group to grow over the coming year , the 
Board remains cautious with regard to the 
short-term prospects, with the indications 
being that the first half of the new financial 
year will be below the prior year . The Group 
management have an ongoing operational 
review looking at all aspects of our business 
and how it can be streamlined with regard  
to reducing cost and improving efficiency.  
The Board has confidence that this review,  
the sales effort in our core brands and the 
new manufacturing facility in China will  
put us in a good position for growth when 
markets recover . 
Bob Morton
Chairman 
23 November 2010
