 22002-04 — Proof 15 — 12/03/2013
OVERVIEW Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2012  
12
Chief Executive’s Review
Delivering sustainable growth
“I am looking forward to working with the 
management team to deliver sustainable 
growth for the business.”
Q: What attracted you to joining 
Premier Foods?
A: I am excited to have joined Premier Foods 
at this important stage in its transformation. 
Premier Foods has a great portfolio of 
brands that consumers know and love and 
a great depth of talent and expertise. I am 
confident that there is real potential to grow 
the Company. Given my track record and 
experience, I believe I have a big opportunity 
to make a difference at Premier Foods by 
working with the management team to deliver 
sustainable growth.
Q: What is your background?
A: Much of my management experience has 
been spent in the consumer goods sector 
building brands. I spent 15 years at Coca-
Cola, one of the world’s best known brands, 
before moving into the telecoms industry 
where I was one of the pioneers that helped 
develop the Vodafone brand to be amongst 
the top ten global brands in value. I led the 
team that introduced the Vodafone brand into 
India. Earlier in my career I worked in the food 
and homecare sectors. In fact, I started out 
at Spillers Foods working on the Homepride 
brand which, of course, is now owned by 
Premier Foods.
Q: You’ve only been at Premier 
Foods a short time but what are 
your initial views on the Group?
A: I am impressed with the job that 
management did last year to stabilise the 
business, particularly, given the difficult 
economic environment. The results for the 
year are encouraging. With much of the initial 
restructuring now complete or in motion, we 
now need to turn our focus to growth to drive 
the next stage of the turnaround. I believe we 
have a clear strategy and a strong team in 
place to deliver future growth.
Q: Are you planning to change 
the Group’s strategy?
A: I am a great believer in ‘focus’ and in 
strategies that require focus. The existing 
strategy of investing behind a small number 
of Power Brands is exactly in line with my 
approach. Furthermore, the Company has 
demonstrated that this strategy is beginning 
to deliver results. I therefore see no need 
for any significant change of course. It’s 
important to ensure continuity for the 
business and for our customers and other 
stakeholders. The important point for me is 
to drive the execution of our strategies and 
ensure we continue to deliver our results. 
Q: Why have you chosen to 
invest such a significant sum in 
Premier Foods shares?
A: I believe a CEO should be personally 
aligned with the interests of shareholders 
from the start. I have confidence in the future 
of Premier Foods and our ability to deliver 
improved shareholder value over the medium 
term. 
Q: How do you see the 
economic outlook for 2013?
A: Markets look just as difficult in 2013 
as they did in 2012. Consumers have less 
disposable incomes and are shopping 
differently. It is very important that we give 
consumers a clear reason to buy our brands 
versus the competition and also build 
mutually beneficial relationships with our 
key customers. I believe we have the right 
strategies in place to deliver further progress 
in 2013.
Q: What are the strategic 
priorities for 2013?
A: There is a strong business plan for 2013 
which builds on the foundations laid down 
in 2012. Our strategic priorities for this year 
are to: 
•	 build on the momentum we have in 
Grocery, particularly through continuing 
to invest behind the Power Brands and 
exploit growth opportunities across 
different channels;
•	 re-build value in the Bread business 
through implementing restructuring plans 
and selective investment in the Hovis 
brand; and 
•	 continue the simplification and cost 
reduction process, including the delivery 
of a further £20m of overhead cost 
savings.
My priority will be to ensure we execute these 
strategies with energy and pace to deliver 
further progress in 2013. I’m looking forward 
to it!
Gavin Darby
Chief Executive Officer
We won the Green and Sustainable Manufacturing Award in October 2012 
recognising the leadership we have shown in reducing waste, energy and water 
consumption at our sites and thereby lowering our overall carbon footprint. 
Premier Foods Annual Report 2012-front.indd   12 15/03/2013   15:02:24 Market insight 14
Our Strategy 16
 Brands 18
 Partners 20
 Focus 22
 Sustainability 24
Key Performance Indicators 26
Contents
Batchelor’s Deli Box range with innovative 
new packaging launched in 2012
Photograph
The Strategic r eview sets  
out a detailed review of the 
key elements of our strategy  
— Brands, Partners, Focus 
and Sustainability — and 
how we have performed 
against our Key Performance 
Indicators.
22002-04 — Proof 15 — 12/03/2013
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
13
STRATEGIC REVIEW
Strategic Review
Premier Foods Annual Report 2012-front.indd   13 15/03/2013   15:02:27
