 22002-04 — Proof 15 — 12/03/2013
OVERVIEW Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2012  
10
Chairman’s Statement
Delivering on our promises
“over the year management has clearly 
demonstrated their commitment to deliver 
on the key strategic priorities to turnaround 
the business whilst at the same time 
generating growth momentum.”
Overview of the year
2012 has been a year of very significant 
transformation for Premier Foods. The 
management team has done an exceptional 
job to deliver underlying trading profit growth 
in challenging market conditions, complete 
the disposal programme ahead of schedule 
and establish a platform for growth as we look 
forward to 2013. In 2012 management set out 
a number priorities to stabilise the business 
and I am delighted that they have delivered on 
these. The ability to deliver, often ahead of time, 
is an important step in rebuilding trust with key 
stakeholders – our customers, shareholders, 
banks, pension schemes and employees. It’s 
also the key reason why the Company has 
been able to report an increase in sales of its 
Power Brands and in underlying trading profit 
despite the difficult economic environment  
in 2012.
In March we announced the successful 
completion of a re-financing package with our 
banking syndicate. The new facility, extended 
to 2016, allows the space for the business 
to execute its turnaround strategy. As part of 
this strategy, the Company agreed to dispose 
of non-core businesses to raise £330m of 
proceeds, a target it exceeded by £40m and 
over a year and a half early, in turn reducing 
net debt levels significantly. In addition, a major 
cost reduction programme was implemented 
to help adapt the Company’s cost base to the 
more focused portfolio, delivering £48m of 
savings by the end of 2012 with a further £20m 
of savings promised in 2013. Importantly, the 
Company has generated growth momentum 
behind its Power Brands by stepping up 
marketing investment and through initiating 
more collaborative partnerships with its key 
retail customers. As a result, underlying sales 
increased 3.2% to £1,353.8m with Grocery 
Power Brands up 4.0%.
Leadership
In February, Gavin Darby was appointed as 
Chief Executive Officer following Michael 
Clarke’s decision to resign from the Company. 
Michael had previously indicated to the Board 
that, having delivered the initial stages of the 
turnaround and set a course for sustainable 
profitable growth, he was considering moving 
on to pursue other opportunities. To help plan 
for a potential succession, the Board initiated a 
contingency process which eventually led to the 
appointment of Gavin Darby. 
I am delighted that we have been able to find 
a successor of Gavin’s quality. His strong 
consumer goods background and senior 
executive experience make him the ideal 
candidate to lead the Company and the 
Board looks forward to working with him as 
Premier Foods moves to the next phase of its 
transformation. I would also like to take this 
opportunity to thank Michael for his significant 
contribution to the Company. 
Employees
During the year we have continued to 
strengthen the capabilities of the Company 
particularly within sales and marketing. In the 
Grocery Division, we re-aligned our commercial 
team bringing together our sales and marketing 
teams under one roof along with our innovation, 
technical, insight and Grocery supply chain 
teams. This will ensure greater alignment with 
the delivery of our growth plans. A dedicated 
management team has also been put in place 
to focus on addressing the challenges faced by 
the Bread business. 
David Beever
Non-executive Chairman
In October 2012 we won the John Sainsbury Award for 
Learning and Development, a prestigious national food 
industry award for our Breakthrough Leadership Programme.
unDerlying traDing profit
£123.4m 
+10.6%
net Debt
£950.7m 
Premier Foods Annual Report 2012-front.indd   10 15/03/2013   15:02:22 22002-04 — Proof 15 — 12/03/2013
OVERVIEW www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
11
During the year a large number of ambitious 
change programmes have been undertaken 
simultaneously in order to increase focus and 
efficiency including the disposal of non-core 
businesses, a major cost reduction programme 
and the recently announced restructuring of 
the Bread business. Management has moved 
quickly to communicate these changes and 
provide clarity to employees. However, I fully 
recognise this has been a challenging time for  
those concerned and I would like to thank all 
staff at Premier Foods for their hard work and 
commitment in delivering the 2012 results. 
As has been the case in past years, the health 
and safety of employees remains an area of 
key focus and I am delighted that yet again the 
operational team have delivered improvements 
with reportable accidents down 42% in 2012. 
This outstanding health and safety record puts 
Premier Foods at the forefront of the British 
manufacturing industry.
Sustainability
Ultimately, the Company endeavours to deliver 
sustainability in everything it does whether that 
applies to financial results or in the way it uses 
natural resources. Wider sustainability issues 
are becoming more and more important with 
our consumers and customers. Most of our 
major customers have significant sustainability 
programmes and this is another way we are 
working in partnership with them to help 
support their strategic priorities. In 2012 the 
Company delivered further improvements 
across all of its environmental KPIs including 
CO
2
 equivalent emissions reduced by 28% and 
waste to landfill down by 53%. 
Our approach to sustainability also extends to 
how we source our raw materials and ensure 
the highest levels of quality and food safety. 
I’m pleased to say that we continue to have 
an excellent track record in this respect which 
is important given recent public concerns over 
the authenticity of meat products. We are 
also addressing consumer concerns about 
health issues such as the amount of salt, fat 
and sugar in their diet as well as portion size. 
We continue to offer a wide range of ‘better 
for you’ choices and informative labelling and 
other communication. We also continued to 
deliver against our commitments under the 
Public Health Responsibility Deal to reduce 
salt levels in a range of products and reduce 
calories across a significant part of our portfolio. 
Further information about our approach to 
Sustainability is set out on page 24.
Governance
As a Board we are committed to good 
governance and have kept up to date with 
changes in the year including the new 
Corporate Governance Code that was issued 
in September and the proposed changes 
to remuneration disclosures outlined by the 
Government in June 2012. A detailed update 
on our governance process, changes to the 
Board and dialogue with shareholders over the 
course of the year are set out in my introduction 
to the Governance section of this annual report 
on page 38. 
Looking forward
It’s clear the economic climate will remain 
very challenging in 2013. However, following 
the achievements of 2012 I believe we have 
a strong platform from which to drive growth. 
We have the right focus, strategies and 
management team in place and in Gavin Darby 
we have a CEO with a proven track record to 
deliver further progress in 2013 and improve 
shareholder value over the medium term. I 
look forward to working with Gavin Darby, the 
management team and the rest of the Board 
to deliver the next stages of Premier Foods’ 
transformation.  
David Beever
Non-executive Chairman
Sustainability in everything we do . . .
reDuC tion in  
reportable  
aCCiDent rates  
in 2012
Workpla Ce HealtH & safety
Since 2007, our health & safety team have led a step-
change in health & safety management which has 
resulted in significant and sustained improvements in 
health and safety performance across the Group.
Our industry leading performance has received a 
number of external awards in 2012. -42%
For information about 
Sustainability See page
24
New range of Ambrosia rice pot sizes 
launched in 2012
Photograph
QuiCk links
Scan the QR Code  
to take you directly  
to more information  
on Sustainability.
Premier Foods Annual Report 2012-front.indd   11 15/03/2013   15:02:23
