 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2010  12
18550-04  09/03/2011 Proof 13
Last year we set out the Group’s business strategy and in 
addition, at the half year, we provided details of our financial 
strategy. I would now like to report on the significant progress 
we have made in 2010 in implementing these strategies and 
also our plans for 2011. 
STRATEGY
Introduction
Our vision is to be “the best in British food with brands that you 
really love”.
The Group’s business strategy is:
• to grow our branded sales faster than their respective 
markets by investing in and strengthening our brands and 
their relevance to today’s consumers;
• to gain competitive advantage by utilising our consumer 
insight and scale to deliver value to customers and to work 
more effectively with suppliers; and
• to deliver efficiency benefits such that supply chain costs  
and overheads are held flat or decline while volumes grow.
The Group’s financial strategy is:
• to focus on cash generation and to reduce average debt to 
EBITDA to 3.25 or less;
• to derisk the swap portfolio and pension arrangements; and
• to diversify our sources of funding.
Despite the continuing difficult consumer environment, we have been 
able to progress with both our business and financial strategies in 2010.
Note: All financial metrics refer to the continuing Group plus 
the Meat-free business unless otherwise indicated. For the 
purposes of the financial statements the Meat-free business is 
disclosed within discontinued operations.
Branded sales
Branded sales are up 3.1% in volume versus category markets 
down 0.8%. Sales revenue was down 0.3% on 2009 in line with the 
market. Within this total, Drive brands are up 3.0%.
 
Competitive advantage through scale
In the year, procurement gains from working more strategically with 
our suppliers added £16m to the Grocery trading profit. 
Improve efficiency
Grocery manufacturing costs in the year were reduced by 8%, being 
6% from efficiencies, ahead of our 4% per annum strategic target 
and 2% from deflation in energy costs. In Group operating expenses, 
savings of £17m were found chiefly from efficiencies in distribution. 
Cash generation
Recurring cash flow was £124m, versus the £100m target set 
out in our strategy. The outperformance was generated by good 
management of working capital including reducing stock holding 
by five days’ cover to 36. £16m of recurring cash flow was used to 
enable the swap restructure to take place: being £8m of settlement 
of a mark to market liability and £8m of fee for bank approval. After 
other non-recurring items amounting to £5m this left £103m which 
has been used to pay down bank debt. 
Derisking swap portfolio and pensions
The swap portfolio was restructured to remove the elements 
which did not provide an economic hedge to the bank debt. 
These elements were diverting cash flow by increasing short term 
interest rates and were building up a large cash call risk in 2012. By 
restructuring the swap portfolio, these risks have been removed. 
The short term interest cost has been reduced and the cash call has 
been fixed at the then current mark to market and deferred to the 
end of the current financing period, i.e. 2013.
The closure of the final salary pension fund has been agreed with the 
trade unions and pension trustees and will be implemented in the 
second half of 2011. The previous final salary offer is replaced with a 
market competitive career average scheme for existing pension fund 
members and a money purchase scheme for new starters.
In conjunction with the trustees of the pension fund, we have also 
agreed a programme to increase the amount of hedging between the 
fund investments and liabilities. This will reduce the volatility of the deficit. 
Diversifying sources of funds
The swap restructure removed a considerable risk from the Group’ s 
balance sheet which would otherwise have prevented the Group 
obtaining a credit rating. We have now obtained a credit rating of Ba2 
(stable outlook) from Moody’ s and BB (stable outlook) from both Fitch 
and Standard & Poors. It is our intention to access the debt capital 
markets and raise a bond during the course of 2011. This will diversify 
our sources of funding and reduce our reliance on bank debt.
Proposed disposal of Meat-free and Canning 
businesses
After the year end, the Group agreed the sale of its Meat-free 
Chief Executive’s statement
Our strategy 
& focus.
Robert Schofield 
Chief Executive Officer
18550-04PREMIERF FRONT.indd   12 09/03/2011   11:27:42 www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 13
Our business
18550-04  09/03/2011 Proof 13
business and its East Anglian canned grocery businesses for a total 
of £387m, equivalent to 7.6 times the combined EBITDA of £51m. 
After costs and pension contributions of around £17m and, subject to 
working capital adjustments on completion, the remaining proceeds 
of around £370m will be used to reduce bank facility borrowings. 
The disposals will leave the Group’ s branded sales percentage largely 
unchanged at 66.4%. But both the gross margin and the trading profit 
margin will be improved. The main effect will be in the Grocery business 
where the branded sales percentage will increase from 74.1% to 
82.3%. The non-branded Grocery sales will be halved and the brands 
sold are largely in the Core and Defend categories. 
The disposal will contribute materially to our objective of deleveraging. 
On a pro forma basis, the Group’ s net debt will be below £900m and 
net debt/EBITDA would be around 2.87 times. In addition, average 
debt/EBITDA would be reduced to around 3.72 times which is well on 
the way to achieving the Group’ s stated target of 3.25 times.
Once the disposals are complete, the Group expects to have 
recurring cash generation of at least £80m per annum. The Group 
believes that the EBITDA growth prospects are largely unchanged 
as the Meat-free business had growth prospects whereas the 
Canning business faced more difficult markets. 
Initially, the effect of the disposals will be to dilute EPS. However, the 
Group believes this is a temporary effect. Firstly, the initial interest 
saving is at the marginal cost of bank funds. Once a bank refinancing 
is undertaken, the saving will increase to the average rate. Secondly, 
the simplification of the business achieved by the disposals will facilitate 
improving processes which will result in cost savings. 
Corporate Social Responsibility
Last year we also published our first stand alone CSR report setting 
out the progress we had made against a number of objectives and 
also setting out our future plans to strengthen our approach to CSR 
in 2010. We have also made significant progress in aligning our 
commitment to CSR with our overall business strategy to deliver 
long-term and sustainable business growth. Details of our key 
achievements are set out on pages 36 to 43.
Plans for 2011
In 2010 we have made significant progress in resolving the balance 
sheet issues which have up until now weighed heavily on the 
business. With the financial path now clear and the journey well under 
way, we can focus our resources more firmly on building our brands. 
To achieve this, we have now  implemented a new organisation 
structure in which Tim Kelly was appointed Chief Operating Officer 
with effect from January 2011. 
This structure will:
• manage all brands together rather than separately by division 
allowing for better prioritisation of resources;
• establish a Group marketing function facilitating the sharing 
of consumer insight and maximising value from marketing 
spend;
• concentrate more resources behind innovation in our Drive 
and Core brands leading to a bigger contribution from new 
and improved products;
• manage the Defend brands and non-branded businesses 
separately to ensure their contribution is maximised; and 
• consolidate back office functions to simplify back office  
processes and facilitate cost reduction.
We will elaborate on these plans at an Investor Conference in  
May 2011.
Outlook
Promotional activity increased significantly in 2010. For 2011, we do 
not believe that it will continue to escalate at the same rate but we 
are cautious about whether it will decline very quickly. 
Commodity inflation has been running at mid single digit 
percentages. This has required us to increase prices for our 
products. At this level, we believe that inflation is manageable. 
In 2010, the most dramatic effect of pricing and commodity inflation  
was felt in the significant fall in profitability in our Brookes Avana 
business. We are talking constructively with Marks and Spencer to  
agree new product ranges and revised pricing and supply arrangements 
which we believe will return the business to profitability in 2011.
Our focus in 2011 will be:
• to continue to take branded market volume share;
• to grow our percentage of Grocery branded sales from new 
and improved products as our innovation pipeline matures; 
• to continue our drive for efficiencies; and
• to generate at least £80m of recurring cash flow.
We would expect our focus to result in the Group showing progress in 
2011 without any further deterioration in the consumer environment.
Robert Schofield
Chief Executive Officer
18550-04PREMIERF FRONT.indd   13 09/03/2011   11:27:45
