 04
Armour Group plc 
Annu Al Repo Rt 2011
Business Review
the deterioration in consumer confidence caused by the weak economic 
environment, particularly in the uK, has made the year to 31 August 2011 the 
most challenging experienced by the Group. Group sales fell to £42.3 million 
(2010: £56.6 million), which generated a loss from operations before 
exceptional items and discontinued operations of £1.7 million (2010: profit 
£1.2 million). the basic loss per ordinary share, before exceptional items and 
discontinued operations, was 1.8p (2010: earnings per ordinary share 1.4p). 
the Group’s net debt at 31 August 2011 was £6.9 million (2010: £5.7 million).
the performance of the Group has been severely affected by the collapse in 
retail demand, which has been felt most particularly in our home division. 
w hilst the uK is not technically in a recession, the impact on consumer 
confidence of the steady stream of poor economic data has resulted in a 
dramatic fall in consumer demand. the consumer electronics sector, which is 
our core market and by its very nature exposed to discretionary expenditure, 
has felt the full force of this downturn in consumer demand. 
in response to the very difficult trading environment, the Group has 
implemented a restructuring of the home division and a cost reduction 
programme throughout all our operations, which has included the closure of 
our c hinese manufacturing facility. these cost reduction initiatives are 
expected to realise over £2.5 million in annualised savings. the major elements 
of the restructuring and cost reduction programmes are now complete and we 
have started the new financial year with a more streamlined structure and cost 
base, particularly in Armour home. 
w hilst Armour home has found the market conditions very challenging, 
Armour Automotive has enjoyed an encouraging recovery in its performance, 
with profits before exceptional items in the year increasing from £0.2 million to 
£0.8 million. in addition, our operations in Asia have continued to grow, with sales 
increasing by 99% to £1.1 million with every expectation that this will become a 
profitable operation in 2012. 
ou R 
AwARDs
ch AiRMAn’s st Ate Ment 05
Armour Group plc 
Annu Al Repo Rt 2011
Business Review
Business Review Governance Financial statements Annual General Meeting
the recovery in Armour Automotive has been driven by strong demand for 
in-vehicle audio solutions supplied into the commercial vehicle market and our 
range of Gps and GsM antennae. As with the home division, retail sales in the 
automotive aftermarket have declined, although this decline has not been as 
marked as in home electronics. we remain confident that Armour Automotive 
will continue its recovery in 2012.
As with all other parts of the businesses, expenditure on new product 
development has been carefully reviewed. however, despite the market 
difficulties, the Group has continued to invest in new product development and 
has launched a number of new products during the year including two new 
ranges of award winning Q Acoustics speakers. n ew product development 
remains a fundamental part of the Group strategy and we believe it is a key 
ingredient to drive sales and deliver a sustainable recovery in performance. 
this year has been very testing for our employees who have had to manage a 
considerable amount of change in a very short period of time. Despite this, they 
have worked with dedication and professionalism for the good of the Group. 
i would like to acknowledge the Board’s appreciation of their commitment 
and effort over the course of the year.
the economic outlook in our core markets continues to be uncertain and the 
prospects of a recovery in consumer confidence and demand in the near term 
remain weak. the actions taken by the Group have significantly reduced its 
cost base and we anticipate an improved performance in 2012.
Bob Morton
c hairman
5 December 2011
