 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2010  02
18550-04  09/03/2011 Proof 13
Chairman’s statement
Driving forward
with brand growth.
Ronnie Bell 
Chairman
Dear Shareholders
This is my first report to shareholders since taking over as Chairman 
in October 2010 and I would like to start with a few first impressions. 
 
My early observation is that Premier Foods has a number of strong 
platforms for growth:
• it has a tremendous stable of leading brands with consumer 
franchises developed in many cases by decades of investment. 
These brands account for over two thirds of the Company’s 
revenues and provide an excellent base for long term business 
growth;
• the business has significant scale and excellent operational 
capabilities with generally well invested assets; and
• a strong and capable management team. 
I have spent the last few months getting to know the Company, 
its brands, facilities and people. I have been impressed with the 
capability and commitment of employees at all levels of the Group. 
There is a strong culture of improvement and willingness to adapt 
quickly to the changing demands of the business. 
Progress in 2010 
During the year the Group set out twin strategic priorities:
• an on-going strategy focused on branded growth; and
• a robust financial plan to reduce the Group’s debt.
 
I am fully supportive of this approach and my immediate priority is to 
ensure rapid progress against delivery on both fronts. 
It is clear that we experienced very challenging trading conditions 
in 2010, particularly in the second half of the year. Market growth 
has been subdued as a result of constrained consumer spending 
and increased promotional activity during this period of ongoing 
economic uncertainty. 
However, it is important to recognise that despite this, we have been 
able to make progress on our strategy of delivering branded volume 
growth ahead of the market. While total sales revenue was down 
slightly in line with the market, branded sales were up 3.1% in terms 
of volume. Drive brands in particular made significant progress, 
gaining market share in a number of areas.
Whilst both the Grocery and Hovis divisions made progress in 2010, 
Brookes Avana had a very difficult year suffering a £15m fall in 
trading profit largely as a result of increased commodity costs and 
lower prices. 
In particular, I am pleased to report that through improved 
management of working capital we have increased recurring cash 
generation by £124m exceeding our target of £100m. 
Derisking the Group’s balance sheet 
It is clear that in the current economic climate, investors have 
continued to be concerned by companies with a high level 
of leverage. 
A great deal of progress has been made by the Company in 2010 
to reduce balance sheet concerns. In October we successfully 
restructured the Group’s swap portfolio significantly reducing the 
Company’s risk exposure. Net debt at the year end has reduced by 
£103m to £1,261m and in addition we have obtained a credit rating 
which will allow us to diversify our sources of funding.
Disposals
During the year we assessed our portfolio and took steps to reduce 
our dependence on some parts of our non-branded portfolio which 
were de-prioritised. We have also undertaken a review of our 
business to assess whether there was the potential for the disposal 
of non-strategic businesses which could accelerate our leverage 
reduction. 
In January 2011 we announced we had reached agreement with the 
private equity business, Exponent Private Equity and Intermediate 
Capital Group (Exponent), to sell our Meat-free business which 
manufactures and sells products under the Quorn and Cauldron 
brands for £205m. This disposal was approved by shareholders on 
3 March and successfully completed on 7 March 2011. 
In addition in February 2011, we announced we had reached 
agreement with food producer Princes for the sale of our canned 
grocery operations in East Anglia for £182m. We expect the 
disposal, which is subject to a number of clearances, to complete 
later in 2011. 
18550-04PREMIERF FRONT.indd   2 09/03/2011   11:27:14 www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 03
Our business
18550-04  09/03/2011 Proof 13
“We will increase our focus on innovation,  
brand building and consumer marketing to  
deliver branded sales growth.”
The Board believes that these disposals are in the best interests 
of both the Company and shareholders as the net proceeds of 
the sale of around £370m will be used to repay debt. This is an 
important step both in significantly reducing the time it takes to 
reach our target debt level and also in allowing management to 
focus more single mindedly on our key brands within the Grocery 
and Hovis businesses.
Board changes
As referred to above, I joined as Chairman with effect from  
1 October 2010 succeeding David Kappler. On behalf of the  
Board, I would like to thank David for his significant contribution 
to the Group since its flotation in 2004. At the same time as my 
appointment Charles Miller Smith became Deputy Chairman and 
he has been working closely with me on the strategic development 
of the business.
 
At the forthcoming AGM in April, David Felwick will be stepping 
down as a non-executive director. I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank David for the help and support he has provided 
to the Company both as Senior independent director and, until 
2009, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Following 
his retirement David Beever will take up the appointment of Senior 
independent director.
I am also very pleased to announce the appointment of David Wild, 
Chief Executive of Halfords plc, as a new non-executive director with 
effect from 7 March 2011. David’s background within the grocery 
and retail industry will be valuable to the Company as we continue 
to develop our strategy.
Focus for 2011
We have made significant strides in achieving a capital structure 
which we believe will be more attractive to investors and hope 
to make further progress in this over the course of the year. With 
balance sheet issues largely addressed, our focus for 2011 will be  
on branded sales growth. 
In order to achieve this I believe it is also important that we increase 
our focus on innovation, brand building and consumer marketing. 
To this end we have now aligned our organisational structure to 
combine the management of our Drive and Core brands and plan to 
put the necessary investment behind accelerating growth.
This new organisational structure is an important step in enabling 
the business to prioritise resources and maximise the return from its 
brand portfolio. The new structure will enable us to: 
• manage all brands together rather than solely by division;
• establish a single Group marketing function to facilitate the 
sharing of consumer insight and aid prioritisation of resources;
• concentrate more resources behind Drive and Core brands; and
• manage the Defend brands and own label businesses 
separately to ensure their contribution is maximised. 
Premier Foods has a good track record of developing innovation 
and new products which reflect changing consumer trends and 
habits. We believe this new structure and increased investment 
will help us to grow the amount of branded sales from new and 
improved products within Grocery as the benefits of our innovation 
pipeline start to come through.
With the current tough general economic environment combining 
with strong pressure from rising commodity prices, 2011 will remain 
difficult from a consumer confidence and trading perspective.
However, as demonstrated in 2010, the Group remains committed 
to the pursuit of share growth behind our strong stable of brands 
across our major markets. Strong marketing programmes and 
increased product innovation will support our share growth 
initiatives. At the same time the Group will continue to leverage cost 
release from its efficiency savings programmes to support gross 
margin achievement. Our improving debt and strengthening balance 
sheet position will allow us to diversify sources of funding. Overall 
we are confident that we can continue to make progress in 2011.
Ronnie Bell
Chairman
18550-04PREMIERF FRONT.indd   3 09/03/2011   11:27:14
