 06
Armour Group plc 
Annu Al Repo Rt 2011
Business Review
chie F executive’s R eview
the year to 31 August 2011 has been extremely challenging with a deteriorating 
economic environment undermining consumer confidence in many of the 
markets the Group supplies. this in turn has significantly reduced demand for 
our products, particularly so in our core market sector of uK retail consumer 
electronics. we have responded to this fall in demand by restructuring our 
business operations, closing our factory operation in c hina and cutting the 
Group operating costs by in excess of £2.5 million annually.
our home division, Armour home, which is most exposed to the retail sector, 
has borne the brunt of the collapse in consumer demand that has hit its target 
retail markets. As a result, it has been restructured, downsizing the business 
to reflect the change in the market conditions. this restructuring programme 
is now broadly complete.
our automotive division, Armour Automotive, has enjoyed a good year continuing 
the improvement reported last year and in the 2011 half year statement. 
increasing demand in its non-retail sales channels has more than compensated 
for a decline in sales into the retail aftermarket. we have also been prudent 
with regard to the cost base, reducing our operating costs in the retail sector 
of the business to counter the decline in sales through this channel.
strategically we have re-focused all business operations on our core brands, 
customers and sales channels. this has reduced our third party distribution 
activities to concentrate on those brands that have critical size, complement 
our existing product portfolio and customer base and can generate economies 
of scale from our operating infrastructure.
ARMoUR HoME
Armour home designs, develops and distributes a range of consumer 
products and accessories for the home, supplying the retail and house 
building markets primarily in the uK. in year to 31 August 2011, Armour home 
has faced considerable challenges as pressure on consumer confidence 
increased. Discretionary spend in the consumer electronics sector has been 
hit particularly hard. sales in the year fell 37% to £27 million resulting in an 
operating loss before exceptional costs of £1.1 million.
All the markets served by Armour home in 2011 have felt the impact of lower 
consumer confidence brought on by the economic downturn. the most 
noticeable has been in the retail sector, where a significant fall in consumer 
demand became increasingly evident after the half year. the house building 
sector has been a little more resilient, although demand remains well below 
prior years.
in response to the worsening market conditions, a major restructuring of 
the division was undertaken, which has now merged the two operating 
businesses of Armour home electronics and Alphason Designs into a single 
trading entity. this has streamlined all departmental functions and is expected 
to realise annual cost savings in excess of £2.2 million, with the single largest 
area of saving being the reduction in headcount from 176 to 122. in addition to 
cost reduction, there has been a targeted programme to re-establish gross 
margins, which have been eroded through competitive pricing pressure and 
promotional activity to drive sales volumes. this margin initiative, which 
includes price increases, has and continues to deliver improvement across 
almost all product categories to the benefit of the division’s overall 
performance. the restructuring programme has undoubtedly caused 
Armour Automotive 
has enjoyed a good year . 
Increasing demand in its 
non-retail sales channels 
has more than compensated 
for a  decline in sales into 
the retail  aftermarket. 07
Armour Group plc 
Annu Al Repo Rt 2011
Business Review
Business Review Governance Financial statements Annual General Meeting
ou R po Rt Folio
 All Armour businesses maintain a quality portfolio of products 
which aim to exceed customer expectation.
“Fantastic Quality Product... I was extremely impressed with the 
build quality and the overall design and felt the need to let you 
know how pleased I am. Too many companies fail to pay attention 
to quality - you have obviously got it spot on! A very satisfied  
customer that will definitely return.”   
 Al PHAson c UsToMER, AUGUsT 2011  08
Armour Group plc 
Annu Al Repo Rt 2011
Business Review
chie F executive’s Review
continue D
disruption, which in turn has had a negative impact on the financial 
performance over and above that caused by the weak economic conditions. 
however, the programme was substantially complete by 31 August 2011 and 
the division has started the new financial year with a significantly lower cost 
base and an improving gross margin.
sales of our home automation systems and associated products declined 
during the year by 32%. Demand for our products in this market is directly 
related to new home building activity, which has remained doggedly subdued 
throughout the year, although there have been signs of some improvement 
over the recent months. the market has also changed with the advent of an 
increasing number of wireless products on the market, which have shifted 
demand away from the traditional professionally installed wired products. 
Armour home has recognised this change and wireless functionality has been 
introduced into the systemline multi-room products during the course of the 
year. l ooking forward, the product development programme includes the 
launch in 2012 of three new product ranges, including a new wireless platform, 
which we believe will open up new market areas for Armour home and help 
offset what is now expected to be another year of tepid demand.
sales into the uK retail channel have had a very hard year with a year-on-year 
decline of 41%. this was not helped by the poor weather in December 2010, 
although the underlying and principal issue has been the sudden and 
significant fall in consumer confidence and spending. hardest hit has been 
the audio-visual furniture brand Alphason, where sales are down 47%, 
which directly reflects the decline in sales of televisions. Many of our large 
retail customers were left with excess stocks following the football world c up 
and c hristmas in 2010 and given the rapid decline in consumer demand for 
televisions and associated accessories, these retailers have not re-ordered 
significant amounts of audio-visual furniture for most of 2011. sales of the 
division’s other core brands, QeD and Q Acoustics, were also down on the prior 
year with weaker demand being compounded by supply issues during the early 
part of the year. For the new financial year, we have introduced a number of 
new products including two award winning Q Acoustics speaker ranges, a new 
range of Alphason audio visual furniture and a refreshed and updated range of 
QeD cables. these new products will be important in stimulating demand in 
this sales channel in 2012.
in contrast to the sales decline in most retail product categories, Armour 
home’s office furniture range has performed well over 2011 with sales being 
13% up on the prior year. A new category in 2010, the division has consolidated 
its position in 2011 developing a good customer base from which it can further 
grow. we have also developed our customer service offering with a very 
successful “drop ship” delivery service for our retail customers whereby we 
deliver direct to the consumer from our warehouse. this service has grown 
significantly over the past year and we are now delivering over 4,000 parcels 
a month through this service.
w hilst our product development programme has been slowed, and there 
were fewer product launches in 2011, it remains very active and has recently 
delivered to market in october 2011 two w hat hi-Fi? sound and vision 
award winning speaker ranges in Q7000 and Q2000i. the awards included 
the prestigious “product of the year” for the Q7000 5.1 speaker package. 
Armour home also won a w hat hi-Fi? sound and vision award for QeD 
and two for Grado headphones.
Armour Home’ s office 
furniture range has 
performed well over 201 1 
with sales being 13% up 
on the prior year . A new 
category in 2010 the division 
has consolidated its position 
in 201 1 developing a  good 
customer base from which  
it can further grow. 09
Armour Group plc 
Annu Al Repo Rt 2011
Business Review
Business Review Governance Financial statements Annual General Meeting
From initial concept 
through to production, 
cTi (Armour Automotive) 
designs and develops 
RF antennae. Using 
advanced simulation 
software, cTi develops 
detailed 3D models 
and 2D drawings to 
convert concepts 
into products. High 
quality proprietary 
products, such as 
Pentaband surface 
Mount Antennae, 
greatly enhance the 
development of 
wireless communications 
and solutions.
ou R innov Ation
All Armour businesses focus on delivering  
innovative products, many of which win  
industry awards. 10
Armour Group plc 
Annu Al Repo Rt 2011
Business Review
 ou R Dist RiBution
chie F executive’s Review
continue D
Armour has warehouse and distribution facilities in the UK, sweden 
and Hong Kong. 
Armour Home’s warehouse and distribution operations have 
been consolidated into its 78,000 sq ft facility in Wigan. This facility 
is geared to distribute in excess of 2,000 different products to over 
3,000 customers, despatching more than 50,000 individual orders 
per annum. 11
Armour Group plc 
Annu Al Repo Rt 2011
Business Review
Business Review Governance Financial statements Annual General Meeting
ARMoUR AUToMoTIvE
Armour Automotive is the leading company in the uK and sweden supplying 
the automotive aftermarket and commercial vehicle market with connectivity 
solutions and audio-video equipment for in-vehicle applications. t he division’s 
recovery has continued throughout 2011 with sales up 8% to £14.4 million 
delivering an operating profit of £0.7 million for the year, a fourfold increase.
Armour Automotive’s progress has been based on an expanding commercial 
and leisure vehicle business where demand has continued to grow for our 
in-vehicle audio solutions. there has also been strong growth in sales of 
our ct i antennae range driven by a combination of both new products and an 
expanded customer base. the weakest area for Armour Automotive has been 
in the retail sales channel, where sales have declined against a background of 
an increasingly difficult consumer environment. Gross profit margins within the 
automotive division are marginally down on the prior year, reflecting the change 
in sales mix towards the non-retail sales channels which typically generate a 
lower gross margin.
in the uK retail sales channel, market conditions have remained challenging 
with sales declining 12% on the prior year. in part some of this decline relates 
to the poor weather in December 2010 and operational issues experienced 
by our largest customer at the start of the year. however, the overriding cause 
is the weakness of consumer demand in the face of the very tough economic 
conditions. As a consequence of the retail market conditions, retail operations 
were restructured to reduce the operating cost base relating to this channel. 
the outlook for the retail market remains uncertain and subdued. the current 
expectation is that the market will continue to contract over the coming year, 
although there are opportunities to win market share in existing markets and 
enter new market areas with new products planned for launch in the early 
part of 2012.
the non-retail business, which is primarily into the commercial and leisure 
vehicle and antennae markets, has had a very strong year with sales increasing 
50%. Demand from all our key customers grew, particularly in the agricultural 
vehicle and antennae markets. A number of new contracts have been secured 
and there has been increasing demand from the existing customer base as 
their own sales have been expanding. the new financial year has started well 
for this sales channel and with the prospect of a new audio platform for the 
agricultural vehicle market set for launch in early 2012, the outlook remains 
promising.
the i o range of in-vehicle Bluetooth music streaming and handsfree 
solutions has been disappointing in 2011 due to the delayed launch of the 
second generation product, which is now expected in the market in the first 
half of 2012. testing of this new platform, which is now well advanced, 
is encouraging and the reseller network is in place to accept the new 
generation product launch.
Armour n ordic, our business in scandinavia that forms part of Armour 
Automotive, continues to perform well with sales increasing by 6%. Further 
expansion of the product portfolio into the home market and a new distribution 
agreement with sony for in-car audio products has more than compensated for 
slowing market demand. the outlook for the n ordic region remains positive 
with sales growth expected in 2012 coming from a new distribution agreement 
in the home market with tDK and further new products planned within the 
division’s own proprietary brands.
Armour Automotive’ s 
recovery has continued 
throughout 201 1  with  
sales up 8% to £14.4  
million delivering an 
operating profit of  
£0.7 million for the year ,  
a  fourfold increase. 12
Armour Group plc 
Annu Al Repo Rt 2011
Business Review
chie F executive’s Review
continue D
ARMoUR AsIA
Armour Asia represents the Group’s interests in Asia/pacific, both through 
selling our products in the region and acting as the liaison between the uK 
operations and our Far eastern manufacturing partners. sales in the region 
through Armour Asia are still relatively small, but are growing fast and 
increased by 99% to £1.1 million in the year to 31 August 2011. the largest and 
fastest growing market is c hina where we sell a range of the Group’s products 
into the retail and the hotel build markets. the region offers considerable 
expansion opportunities and the expectation is that sales will continue to grow.
in october 2010 the Group set up a factory operation in c hina assembling 
audio-visual furniture following strong sales indications from large uK retail 
customers. unfortunately, with the fast deteriorating economic conditions 
and the sudden and significant fall in consumer demand, the expected sales 
volumes from these customers did not materialise. As a consequence of this, 
we took the decision to close the factory, which we did at the end of May 2011. 
the cost to the Group in the year of the c hina factory operation and its closure 
was £0.5 million and has been disclosed as a discontinued operation in the 
c onsolidated statement of c omprehensive income.
nEW PRoDUc T DEvElo PMEn T
n ew product development is, and remains, fundamental to driving the Group 
forward in terms of both sales and profits and maintaining market position. 
however, the economic downturn has meant that a number of programmes 
have been slowed down whilst the Group restructure and resize the businesses 
to meet the changing demands of the market. Despite this, the Group has 
continued to launch a number of new products including the new Q7000 and 
Q2000i (www.qacoustics.co.uk) speaker ranges, the Alphason Design First 
audio-visual furniture range (www.alphasondesigns.com), our highly 
successful in-vehicle data logger targeted at improving driver behaviour 
and a refreshed range of QeD cables (www.qed.co.uk). the new product 
programme for 2012 includes new products for all the Group’s core brands.
oUTloo K
the new financial year is expected remain challenging with uncertainty in the 
wider economic environment continuing to impact on consumer confidence 
and demand. we have taken the necessary steps to downsize our business 
operations to meet the changing demand requirements and will keep them 
under review such that they remain correctly sized for the markets we serve. 
George Dexter
c hief executive
5 December 2011
“ Just wanted to say 
thank you for your 
help and amazing 
support.... Thanks  
again, I am telling 
everyone  how good 
the support has been - 
you just don’t seem to 
get it these days!”
 Al PHAson c UsToMER, 
APRIl 2011  13
Armour Group plc 
Annu Al Repo Rt 2011
Business Review
Business Review Governance Financial statements Annual General Meeting
ou R seRvice
 All Armour businesses focus on customer service which includes range   
reviews, product quality, stock availability, delivery and after sales support. 
“ Armour Automotive is our specialist head unit supplier providing us with quality 
innovative bespoke products consistently supported by excellent levels of 
customer service.”
 Jc BAMFoRD Exc AvAToRs l IMITED 
