 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
At the time we report our results 
for the year ending 31 December 
2013, we are also announcing a 
major Capital Restructuring.
This includes proposals for a new Revolving Credit Facility with a 
streamlined bank syndicate, a revised schedule of deficit contributions 
with our pension schemes and a proposal to raise approximately 
£350m in new equity and approximately £475m in high yield bonds. 
Once completed, this Capital Restructuring, will significantly transform 
the capital base of the Group, reducing our leverage.
Hovis Joint Venture
In addition over the course of 2013 management successfully 
implemented a major restructuring of the Bread division to reduce 
excess capacity and improve the efficiency of the business. This 
involved the closure of three bakery sites, two flour mills and a major 
reconfiguration of the logistics network. In November, we confirmed 
that we were looking at options to secure new investment in the 
business and I am delighted to report that in January 2014 we 
announced a conditional agreement to establish a joint venture with 
The Gores Group. This is great news for the Hovis business as it will 
unlock a significant, five-year investment programme to improve its 
operational infrastructure and reinvigorate the Hovis brand. Premier 
Foods will also retain a 49% stake in the business allowing the Group 
to share in the expected future gains of this investment. Further details 
of the joint venture can be found in the Operating review.
I believe that both these announcements are significant milestones 
in the Group’s turnaround strategy and will result in the creation of 
a strong and focused Grocery business going forward. Your Board 
are fully supportive of these proposals and have committed to 
participate fully in the proposed rights issue in respect of their personal 
shareholdings.
Shareholders should be aware that both the Capital Restructuring and 
Hovis joint venture are dependent on shareholder approval at a General 
Meeting to be held on 20 March 2014 and therefore subject to risk and 
uncertainty. Details of the risks and uncertainties are set out in detail on 
page 29.
Performance for the year
I am pleased to report that Gavin and the management team have also 
clearly demonstrated their commitment and ability to deliver trading 
results for 2013 in line with market expectations. This is particularly 
impressive given the challenging customer and consumer environment 
facing our industry. Grocery Power Brands sales grew 2.0% in the 
year benefiting from sustained investment in marketing and we also 
regained some momentum on Support brands in the final quarter. 
In line with our strategy to focus on branded sales we also exited a 
number of non-profitable own label contracts which meant that 
Chairman’s Statement
A transformational year for Premier Foods
David Beever
Chairman
Underlying Trading Profit
£145.2m 17.7%
(2012: £123.4m)
Net Debt
£830.8m
12.6%
(2012: £950.7m)
“The announcements to create 
a new joint venture for Hovis 
and a new Capital structure 
are significant milestones in the 
Group’s turnaround strategy 
and will result in the creation of 
a strong and focused Grocery 
business going forward.”
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
10 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
overall underlying sales were marginally down by 1.1% year on year. In 
addition, we made further progress in reducing the Group’s overhead 
cost base and in reducing complexity through streamlining our supplier 
base and eliminating low margin products. Together, this performance 
helped support a 17.7% increase in underlying Trading profit for the 
year to £145.2m with adjusted earnings per share up 63.7% to 27.7p.
This demonstrates the Group’s category-focused growth strategy is 
starting to bear fruit. Further information on our strategy is set out in the 
Chief Executive’s Review on pages 12 and 13. 
Leadership
In September 2013 we announced the appointment of Alastair Murray 
as CFO in place of Mark Moran. Alastair has extensive strategic, 
commercial, financial, pensions and consumer brand experience built 
up over many years with a number of leading food and consumer 
goods companies. This is a key appointment and I’m sure Alastair 
will make a major contribution as we complete the transformation of 
the business. In May, we welcomed Pam Powell as a non-executive 
director. Pam has more than 20 years marketing experience developing 
some of the world’s leading consumer brands, and her appointment 
will be a tremendous benefit as we look to continue the growth of our 
Power Brands. 
Ian McHoul, who was reaching the end of his third term in office this 
year, retired as a director at the AGM on 25 April 2013. On behalf of 
the Board I would like to thank both Mark and Ian for their significant 
contribution to the Group over a number of years. Full details of all 
the Board changes in 2013 are set out in my introduction to the 
Governance section on pages 46 and 47. This also includes a detailed 
update on our governance process, Board evaluation exercise and 
dialogue with shareholders over the course of the year. 
Employees
I would like to thank all staff at Premier Foods for their continued hard 
work and commitment in delivering the 2013 results. During the year 
we undertook a number of change programmes as we continued to 
adapt the organisation’s structure to a more focused portfolio and 
completed the planned restructuring of the Bread business. Regrettably 
many of our colleagues left the business as a result. Management 
moved quickly to communicate changes and provide clarity for those 
affected, however, I fully recognise this has been a challenging time for 
all concerned. 
In September 2013 we experienced industrial action at our Wigan 
bread bakery. This was a local dispute related to the use of agency 
workers and I am pleased that an agreement was swiftly reached 
allowing us to move forward and rebuild strong relations at the site. 
As part of our ongoing commitment to support the Group’s category-
focused growth strategy we have strengthened capabilities in a number 
of areas during 2013, doubling the number of apprenticeships at our 
sites, restarting our graduate recruitment programme and building 
resource within our innovation teams.
Our employees up and down the country worked extremely hard to 
raise funds to support our chosen charity, Macmillan Cancer Support. 
Together with the generosity of our suppliers, we raised nearly £200k 
for the charity helping support the invaluable work of Macmillan nurses.   
Sustainability
A key part of our overall strategy is to drive sustainability in everything 
we do whether that applies to financial results or in the way we use 
natural resources. 
In 2013, we continued to make good progress in reducing our 
environmental footprint. For example, all of our manufacturing sites are 
now officially accredited as ‘zero waste to landfill’ sites. 
In product terms, we continued to deliver nutritional improvements 
through reducing salt and calories and, as part of a pioneering group 
of retailers and manufacturers, committed to introduce colour-coded 
front of pack nutritional labelling across all our branded products to 
help consumers make more informed choices. We also joined forces 
with others in industry to address a projected future shortage of food 
engineers by encouraging apprenticeships and becoming a founding 
supporter of the National Centre of Excellence in Food Engineering to 
be established at Sheffield Hallam University.
I am delighted that our achievements in this area received external 
recognition with the Group winning several different awards including 
‘Manufacturing Company of the Year’ at the 2013 UK Food 
Manufacturing Excellence Awards and ‘Efficiency Initiative of the Year’ 
at the 2013 UK National Recycling Awards. Further information about 
our approach to Sustainability is set out on page 26.
Looking forward
Whilst there are signs that the economic conditions in the UK are 
now starting to improve, consumer spending remains subdued and 
competition on the high street continues to be intense. The Group 
has a clear strategy to deliver growth in a tough market. I believe the 
successful completion of the proposed Hovis joint venture and Capital 
Restructuring will transform Premier Foods into a focused, high-margin 
Grocery business with a stable capital structure which will further 
enable management to focus its full attention on delivering against our 
strategy to drive profitable category growth. I very much look forward 
to making further progress in 2014.
David Beever 
Chairman
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
11
