 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
08
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our vision is to be  
“The Best in British Food”
2011 was clearly a challenging year for Premier Foods. Like many 
others in the industry, we felt the impact of significant commodity 
inflation and an unprecedented decline in consumer spending. 
Unfortunately, our price increases were not able to fully recover 
higher costs and were largely negated by higher promotional 
spending which affected margins. In addition, as consumers 
looked for greater value, we were unable to maintain demand for 
our brands due to reduced marketing investment. Retail customer 
support for our brands consequently declined in favour of our 
competitors and own label, a situation that was exacerbated by the 
effect of customer disputes. 
 
Our trading results for the year tell the story. They also reflect certain 
underlying challenges facing the business. Despite its significant 
scale, the Group has been unable to fully exploit revenue and cost 
synergies. The business remains complex with insufficient focus and 
has additionally suffered from a lack of investment behind its brands 
and a short-term, tactical approach to trading. The need to service 
significant debt has compounded these challenges.
Since joining the Company last August, my focus has been on 
addressing these challenges. We have a great portfolio of brands 
that remain hugely popular and employees who are passionate 
about the business. To help build on these strengths, we have 
put in place a new leadership team that has significant collective 
experience. Our initial focus is to continue the stabilisation of the 
business, to refocus the portfolio and to invest in our future growth. 
Last October, we announced five priorities to help stabilise the 
business and we are gaining momentum against each of these:
	 Invest behind eight Power Brands — seven of our Power Brands 
will be back on TV with advertising in the first half of 2012 and 
we will invest significant promotional spend behind the eighth;
	 Strengthen capabilities, particularly sales and marketing — new 
leadership is now in place and we are reorganising to improve 
effectiveness;
	 Divest selected businesses to sharpen focus — the Brookes 
Avana and Irish Brands disposals have been completed;
	 Right-size and reduce the Group’s cost base — we have 
announced a doubling of previous overhead cost reduction 
programmes to achieve more than £40m savings by 2013;
	 Agree a re-financing package with the banks — we have 
obtained consent to an extended re-financing package.
I’m delighted that we have been able to reach a positive outcome with 
our banking, swap counterparties and pension scheme partners on 
a new financing package. The consent for this re-financing package 
represents a strong sign of confidence and support for the business 
and is great news for our employees and all of our stakeholders. It 
also helps us draw a line under the performance of 2011 and will 
allow us to move forward in implementing our new growth strategies. 
Our growth strategies are aligned around four pillars to achieve our 
vision to be the ‘Best in British Food’:
	 Brands — We plan to invest behind our eight Power Brands of 
Hovis, Ambrosia, Mr. Kipling, Sharwood’s, Loyd Grossman, Bisto, 
OXO and Batchelors. Detailed brand plans have been developed 
that leverage the ‘Britishness’ of our brands as well as step-up 
our innovation in product design, packaging and promotions. 
Our marketing spend behind these brands will be doubled in 
2012, with further sustained increases in marketing investment in 
subsequent years. To help focus our efforts further we will seek 
to divest selected, non-core businesses.
“I am convinced we have the right team  
in place to turn this business around.”
Michael Clarke
Chief Executive Officer
“Seven of our eight Power 
Brands will be back on TV 
in the first half of 2012”
New TV campaign features our Sharwood’s chefs travelling the country 
to discover what makes a Great British curry Our business Performance Governance Financial statements
09
Summary
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
	 Partners — We will build more collaborative relationships with 
all of our business partners. Specifically, we will develop joint 
business plans with key customers to drive mutual growth. We 
also plan to develop specific pricing and promotional strategies 
for the fast growing discounter and wholesale segment as well 
as improve our revenue growth management through optimising 
our trade investment, systems and processes.
	 Focus — Through improving our focus, we plan to drive further 
efficiency and effectiveness. Our supply chain will continue to 
target year-on-year savings of around 4% of manufacturing 
controllable costs and capital expenditure will be skewed to 
supporting growth and productivity programmes. In addition, we 
have announced that we will accelerate planned reductions in 
overhead costs. The £20m overhead savings by 2013 that we 
announced at the 2011 Half Year will now be doubled to more 
than £40m over the same time period. The costs to achieve 
these savings are approximately £21m, the majority of which are 
expected to be taken in 2012.
	 Sustainability — We intend to take a longer term approach 
to the business by ensuring we act sustainably in everything 
we do. We will continue investing in our brands, people and 
partnerships, driving high environmental and ethical standards 
and expanding better-for-you choices as part of our portfolio. 
Together, this will help us deliver sustainable results.
We recognise that the consumer environment remains challenging. 
Consumers will continue to focus on value and convenience; and 
competition will again be intense. There is no doubt that we will 
need to work hard to make our brands stand out. Nevertheless, our 
performance thus far in 2012 is in line with our expectations. I’m 
convinced we have the right team to turn this business around and I 
am very positive about our future. I look forward to updating you as 
we progress.
Michael Clarke
Chief Executive Officer
£40m
reduction in overhead 
costs targeted by 2013
Consent has been obtained for a landmark  
4½ year re-financing package
I am delighted that we have been able to reach a positive 
outcome with our banking syndicate, swap counterparties and 
pension schemes. This has been a key priority of mine since 
joining the Group and represents a strong sign of confidence 
and support for the business, its strategies and growth plans. 
It also provides us with a stable base from which to focus 
on executing our growth strategies and is great news for 
our employees and all of our stakeholders. The re-financing 
package is subject to the formalities of final documents being 
signed and this is expected by the end of March 2012.
Headlines
	 Banking facilities of £1.4bn extended to June 2016
	 Banking covenants reset to support strategic plan
	 Interest rate swaps converted to additional bank term loan
	 Pension schemes to defer deficit contributions until January 
2014
The existing term loan (£733m) and revolving credit facility 
(£500m), previously due to mature on 31 December 2013, 
will be extended to a new maturity date of 30 June 2016. The 
current applicable bank margin of 2.25% will increase to 3.25% 
with effect from 1 January 2014. 
Additionally, the current amortisation payment schedule has 
been amended, with amortisations to occur semi-annually from 
30 June 2014. 
Banking covenants of Net debt/EBITDA and EBITDA/Interest 
remain in place; they will continue to be tested biannually and 
have been reset to reflect the Group’s strategic plan. 
The total interest rate swap portfolio, including previously 
restructured swaps will be restructured into additional term loan 
totalling approximately £199m. 
The Group has negotiated and obtained a commitment to a 
new securitisation programme relating to certain receivable 
balances available up to an amount of £120m. 
Subject to the implementation of the new re-financing 
arrangements, the trustees of the Group’s pension schemes 
have agreed to defer deficit contribution payments (c.£47m 
p.a.) until 1 January 2014 and there will be no increase in the 
agreed deficit contributions before 2016.
Further details of the re-financing can be found in the Financial 
review on pages 32 and 33.
12
For more information 
about Our business 
See page
