 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
As part of our recently announced 
Capital Restructuring, we set out a 
seven-point investment proposition 
that highlights the strengths and 
opportunities of the new Premier 
Foods (see panel on page 16). I 
believe there are strong reasons to 
invest in the future of the Company. 
Premier Foods is a high-quality, branded Grocery business with 
strong EBITDA margins, operating cash flows and growth prospects. 
Together with a new capital structure and pension deficit contribution 
arrangements, we have a positive foundation to drive future growth.
How have you found your first year at Premier Foods?
It’s been an eventful, yet hugely exciting year. When I joined the 
Company I had four key goals in mind. Firstly, I wanted to maintain our 
trading momentum and deliver our results for 2013 in line with market 
expectations. I’m delighted we’ve been able to do that despite a 
challenging consumer environment. Looking further ahead, I was keen 
we find a sustainable solution for the Hovis business and additionally 
address our capital structure and pension deficit in a way that would 
create greater certainty and confidence in the future of our business for 
all stakeholders. Finally, I believed it was important to map out a clear 
strategy to continue to grow the Premier Foods business in the coming 
years. I’m proud that we’ve been able to deliver on all of these goals.
Are you satisfied with how the business 
performed in 2013?
Broadly, yes. Last year was difficult for the food industry generally 
as consumer disposable incomes remained under pressure, driving 
a more intense promotional environment with little overall volume 
growth in the market. The very hot summer also affected some of our 
categories with a consequent impact on our brands. This meant we 
lost some of the momentum of the first half of the year, although we 
did continue to grow market share in several of our categories. Grocery 
Power Brand sales grew 2.0 % in the year and sales of our Support 
brands grew 1.1% in the final quarter, reversing previous declines. 
We also made significant progress in reducing our overhead costs 
and kick-started a new initiative to reduce complexity throughout the 
business. The progress we made in 2013 gives us a good base on 
which to build in 2014 and the coming years.
Chief Executive’s Review
A new focused Grocery business
Gavin Darby
Chief Executive 
Officer
“Our strategy to drive category 
growth is the best way to grow 
our brands. Simply put, it’s 
about encouraging more people 
to use more of our brands, in 
more ways, more often.”
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
12 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
What difference will the Hovis joint venture make?
After all the painful restructuring in 2013 to reduce excess capacity and 
improve the efficiency of both the Baking and Flour Milling businesses, 
it was essential we find a way to secure the investment necessary to 
implement our longer-term plan to grow the business. The joint venture 
with The Gores Group does just that. The agreement helps unlock a 
major investment plan to improve the operational infrastructure and re-
invigorate the Hovis brand, and enables Premier Foods to share in the 
expected upside of this investment through a 49% stake in the venture. 
With the Hovis business as part of a joint venture, we can now focus 
our full attention on growing our core Grocery business.
Will the new capital structure be more sustainable than 
previous restructurings?
The new capital structure significantly reduces our leverage, diversifies 
our sources of funding and provides a longer-term arrangement 
that helps provide stability and certainty. The planned raising of 
approximately £350m in new equity will reduce our adjusted Net debt 
to 3.3x our 2013 Grocery EBITDA and significantly reduce our interest 
payments. The constructive agreement we reached with our pension 
trustees on deficit contributions will also be a great help in allowing 
the Company to continue its recovery, as we’ll effectively reduce our 
contributions by £156m over the first three years of the agreement. 
This is transformational for the Group, and important to all our 
stakeholders as it provides the means and focus to continue investing 
in growing our brands. 
How do you plan to grow the business in the 
current trading environment? 
At our Half Year results in 2013, I outlined our strategy to drive category 
growth as the best way to achieve growth of our brands. This remains 
our focus. Growing the size of the market sectors we operate in, 
as well as our share of those sectors, is a more sustainable way to 
drive growth in partnership with our customers. Simply put, it’s about 
encouraging more people to use more of our products, in more ways, 
more often. Innovation and marketing are critical to this approach and 
we’ll be further investing in both in support of our brands and funded 
by a tight control over costs. More information on our category growth 
strategy is set out on page 16.
How important is innovation for Premier Foods?
Innovation and marketing are central to our category growth strategy. 
In addition to developing new products, we look for new ways to 
improve our existing products, encourage new uses and create 
innovative ways to communicate about our brands. The launch of 
Ambrosia Devon Dream last year is a good example of how we’ve 
stretched the Ambrosia brand into the summer months with a lighter 
dessert topping. Oxo Shake & Flavour is another innovation that helps 
take the Oxo brand from traditional stock cubes to a versatile range of 
seasonings. Over the past two years, we’ve stepped up our marketing 
to support our innovation and remind consumers how great our 
products taste. For example, Ambrosia custard was back on TV for the 
first time in a decade in 2013 and Batchelors was advertised on TV for 
the first time in five years. We’ve also been investing in other ways to 
advertise and promote our brands through digital channels and creative 
partnerships. 
How are you addressing changing shopping patterns?
The strength and breadth of our brand portfolio, together with our 
manufacturing and supply chain capabilities, gives us a big advantage 
in serving today’s multi-format retail environment. Most of our sales 
remain with the major supermarkets and we work hard to strengthen 
our partnership with these customers by developing joint business 
plans. But we also have opportunities and plans to grow with other 
channels which, although a smaller part of the market, are becoming 
increasingly popular. These include convenience outlets, foodservice, 
branded discounters and online. Our flexibility to produce different 
pack and case sizes, and offer product formats under the banner of 
our Support brands, gives us a broad scope to meet the different 
requirements of these customers.
Given the competitive environment, what scope do you 
have to reduce costs as a way to build profitability?
It’s important to continue improving our efficiency and effectiveness 
to fund the investment needed in our innovation and marketing 
activities. Over the past few years we’ve been very good at reducing 
our overhead costs and maintaining a tight rein over manufacturing 
and logistics costs, and we’ll continue with this level of control. In 
2013 we initiated a further focus on reducing complexity throughout 
the business as a way to step-change our thinking. As a result, we 
committed to cutting our supplier base in half by the end of 2014 
through developing fewer, longer-term strategic partnerships. We also 
looked at the profitability and strategic fit of every one of our products 
resulting in the elimination of more than 400 low-margin products from 
the portfolio so far. There are many other opportunities to go after. 
What are you doing to motivate employees and build a 
winning team culture?
It’s been a tough time for our people over the last few years given 
the degree of change. Many of our colleagues have left as part of 
businesses we’ve sold and our Hovis colleagues will soon be part 
of the new joint venture. We have also had to make some difficult 
decisions to slim down our overhead structures and improve our 
operational efficiency, particularly in the Bread business. I believe 
we are substantially through that period now and we’re preparing 
for the future. We’re taking a fresh look at our purpose, vision, 
values and behaviours, and we have started to invest more in our 
people, for example through re-initiating our Graduate Recruitment 
programme, doubling the number of apprentices and strengthening our 
commercial skills. Whilst this remains a journey, I’m encouraged by the 
determination of the Premier Foods team to deliver a bright future for 
our business. 
Gavin Darby 
Chief Executive Officer
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
13 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
DID YOU KNOW?
SINCE 2011 WE 
HAVE REDUCED 
SALT LEVELS
IN OUR PRODUCTS 
BY MORE THAN 
286 TONNES.
Sharwood’s packaging 
re-design
In 2013 we launched a packaging re-design across the entire 
Sharwood’s range aimed at helping us to stand out from other 
brands and make it easier to shop for Sharwood’s. The new 
design reflects the positioning for the brand which is all about 
‘making meal times come alive’.
The new packaging, as pictured here, is easier to read and more 
recognisable with a consistent logo across the whole range. The 
improved pack hierarchy includes colour signposting to identify 
individual flavours as well as signage of heat levels on both the label 
and the shelf ready packaging. Accompaniments, such as Naan 
breads, have also been colour coded to match the ranges they 
complement. 
For more information on Consumers
and Brands see pages
18-19 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Strategic
Review
CONTENTS
The Strategic Review sets out the key 
elements of our strategy, our approach to 
sustainability, risk management and how 
we have performed against our KPI’s.
Strategy and Business Model 16-17
Consumers and Brands 18-19
Customers 20-21
People 22-23
Costs 24-25
Sustainability 26-27
Risk Management 28-31
Key Performance Indicators 32-33
