 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
04
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Chairman’s Statement
A stable platform for  
sustainable growth
“The business has significant underlying 
strengths and there are many reasons to be 
positive as we look forward to 2012 and beyond.”
Ronnie Bell
Chairman
2011 was an extremely challenging year for Premier Foods. While the 
results have been disappointing, the new management team put in place 
during the second half of the year has moved quickly to stem the decline 
in profitability and to obtain consent for a re-financing package which 
will provide a stable platform for future growth. I believe the business has 
significant underlying strengths and there are many reasons to be positive 
as we look forward to 2012 and beyond.
2011 overview
Trading in 2011 was affected by a number of significant issues. Poor 
underlying economic conditions had a significant impact on consumer 
confidence and spending whilst at the same time we experienced 
higher commodity inflation. Our price increases were not able to 
recover all of the increased input costs and this, together with an 
increase in promotional activity, had an impact on margin. In addition, 
we experienced strong competition from branded and non-branded 
competitors which was compounded by the impact of customer 
disputes. As a result sales and profitability were significantly below our 
expectations and this in turn put pressure on our banking covenants.
Stabilising the business
In July we announced the appointment of Michael Clarke as Chief 
Executive Officer. Given the challenges facing the Group it was essential 
that the Board appoint an outstanding executive with the experience 
and track record necessary to stabilise and turn around the business. I 
am delighted that Michael agreed to join Premier Foods and believe his 
skill, experience and success in managing and growing brands will be 
invaluable in returning the Group to sustainable growth. 
A huge amount has been achieved in a short space of time. Since joining 
in August, Michael has moved very quickly to review the business, to 
understand the underlying issues and to formulate a compelling growth 
strategy. The consent received for the re-financing is a major milestone 
as it removes uncertainty surrounding the Group’ s financing and provides 
a solid platform to allow management to focus fully on managing and 
growing the business. Other key achievements include:
	 The appointment of a new senior management team with 
experience in brand management and turnaround situations; 
	 Stabilising the decline in profitability;
	 Completion of a business plan to deliver long-term sustainable 
growth;
	 Focused investment behind our eight Power Brands;
	 Reducing costs, simplifying the business and improving 
competitiveness;
	 Divestment of non-core businesses to add focus; and 
	 Building more collaborative long-term relationships with 
customers. 
Consent obtained for a new re-financing package
The Group has obtained unanimous consent to the terms of a re-
financing package from its banking syndicate, swap counterparties 
and pension schemes that will allow the Group to execute its future 
growth strategies. 
The banking facilities will be extended to June 2016 and the 
covenants reset to reflect our strategic plan. Under the agreement the 
interest rate swaps will be converted to additional bank term loan and 
the amortisation payment schedule amended with payments deferred 
until mid 2014. In addition the Group’s pension schemes have agreed 
to defer deficit contributions until January 2014. 
We appreciate the support of both our banking syndicate and 
pension funds in establishing these new arrangements which 
provide the space needed to restore growth.
Further information on the re-financing can be found on pages 32 
and 33.
Best in British Food
Our vision is to be the “Best in British Food”. As Britain’s biggest 
branded food producer, Premier Foods remains fundamentally a 
sound business with a portfolio of great British brands, passionate 
employees and a significant manufacturing footprint.
Many of our brands have a strong heritage and remain the product 
of choice for British consumers — 99% of households buy at 
least one of our products each year. Our products also compare 
favourably against competitors for taste and quality — 96% of 
our top 60 SKUs test at parity or superior when tested against 
competitor products in blind tasting.
In addition, we support the British economy both as a major 
employer in the manufacturing industry with factories across the 
country and also by supporting the British businesses and farmers 
that supply 82% of our ingredients, goods and services.
More information on the four strategic pillars that are aligned around our 
vision are set out in the Chief Executive’ s Statement on pages 8 to 11.
