 Dear shareholder, 
The year to 31 August 2012 has again been 
challenging for the Group with our core UK 
consumer markets continuing to be weak 
against a background of a double dip 
recession. Group sales were £34.4 million 
(2011: £42.3 million), which generated a 
loss from operations before exceptional 
items of £1.2 million (2011: £1.7 million). 
The basic loss per ordinary share, before 
exceptional items, was 1.6p (2011: 1.8p). 
Group net debt at 31 August 2012 was 
£7.6 million (2011: £6.9 million).
The restructuring programme that the 
Group put in place last year has delivered 
£3.0 million of cost savings and an increase 
for the Group of two percentage points in 
gross margin over the prior year. However, 
the continuing difﬁculties in the market and 
the further fall in sales have meant that 
these improvements have not been 
sufﬁcient to return the Group to proﬁt 
in 2012. The operating businesses have 
continued to realise cost savings with 
an additional £1 million anticipated in 
2013 and further improvement in 
margins expected. 
As part of the restructuring undertaken 
the Group has incurred exceptional costs 
of £2.1 million in respect of redundancy, 
the write off of development expenditure 
that is now not considered recoverable 
from the sales of the associated products 
and the exit costs in respect of two leases 
that are now surplus to requirements. 
In addition, and in accordance with the 
accounting standards, the Group has 
taken the decision to write down goodwill 
by £9 million, which reﬂects the more 
cautious outlook resulting from the 
economic conditions.
Armour Automotive has continued 
to improve with sales of £14.4 million 
marginally ahead of last year and 
underlying operating proﬁts increasing 
by 65% to £1.3 million. The continued 
strengthening of the non-retail sales 
channels, particularly in the agricultural 
Chairman’s statement
A CHALLENGING  
YEAR
Bob Morton, Chairman, 18 December 2012
Key achievements
Restructuring
The programme of restructuring 
across the Group is now complete.
Award winning 
Both Armour Automotive and 
Armour Home have again won 
awards for both products and 
business operations.
Global reach
The Group is reaching out to new 
markets throughout Europe, and 
building its presence in Asia.
vehicles and the GPS and GSM antennae 
markets, more than compensated for 
the expected decline in retail. The recent 
launches of the new iO in-car hands free 
music streaming solutions and the new 
audio platform for the agricultural vehicle 
market provide conﬁdence that Armour 
Automotive will continue to grow proﬁtably 
in 2013.
Armour Home sales reduced by 30% to 
£18.9 million. By lowering the cost base 
by £2.5 million and improving margins by 
two percentage points, the underlying 
operating loss for the year was held at the 
same level as last year, at £1.2 million. The 
restructuring within Armour Home is now 
complete and the improvements made in 
the business are starting to show with a 
breakeven position achieved in the ﬁrst 
months of the new ﬁnancial year. New 
products, improving margins, a signiﬁcantly 
lower cost base together with an improved 
year on year trading performance are all 
encouraging indicators for the future.
As a product based business, the 
continued investment in new product 
development is a critical part of the Group 
strategy to deliver future growth. The Group 
recently announced the launch of important 
new products in our iO range of in-car 
hands free music streaming solutions and 
our new Systemline E200 installed audio 
solution for the home market. These new 
products are part of a wider new product 
programme that regularly launches new 
products into the market and are expected 
to generate incremental sales growth in 
the new ﬁnancial year.
The past two to three years have been 
very difﬁcult for the Group and particularly 
for our employees. It is to their credit that 
they have worked professionally and with 
dedication to implement the signiﬁcant 
changes that have been necessary to turn 
the Group around. I would like to take this 
opportunity of thanking them on behalf of 
the Board for their commitment and effort 
over the past year.
It is pleasing to report that the Group as 
a whole has returned to proﬁt in the ﬁrst 
quarter of the new ﬁnancial year. However, 
our core consumer markets remain fragile 
and the economic outlook, whilst improved, 
continues to be uncertain. The Board 
remains cautious, but is encouraged by 
the progress being made by the Group, 
which it expects will continue in 2013.
1 www.armourgroup.uk.com
Business review 
