 September 2011 October November December January 2012
Radiomobile Radio Platform 
New platform incorporating a global 
tuner (including weatherband for the 
US market) for agricultural vehicles.
Autoleads
Range of market leading OBDII cables  
for telematics connectivity.
Q Acoustics 
“2050i” 
Loudspeaker
Multi-award winning 
ﬂoor standing 
loudspeaker. The 
new ﬂagship model 
of the Q Acoustics 
range.
Chief Executive’s statement
WELL POSITIONED  
FOR THE FUTURE
George Dexter, Chief Executive, 18 December 2012
The year to 31 August 2012 has been 
another difﬁcult year for the Group with 
the weak economic environment continuing 
to impact our core UK retail markets, 
particularly those served by Armour Home. 
Our response to the challenging market 
conditions has been a comprehensive 
restructuring programme across the 
Group operations. This restructuring 
programme is now complete and over 
the past twenty four months has delivered 
underlying cost savings of £5.7 million 
and a gross margin improvement of two 
percentage points estimated at £0.6 million. 
The progress that is being made is not 
clearly evident in the results for the year to 
31 August 2012. However, the actions that 
have been taken by the Group over the 
past two years are having a positive impact 
on the Group’s performance. Armour 
Automotive has reported a healthy 65% 
increase in underlying operating proﬁt in the 
year to 31 August 2012 and Armour Home 
has achieved breakeven in the ﬁrst months 
of the new ﬁnancial year. In addition, the full 
beneﬁts of the restructuring are still yet 
to be realised, with an additional £1 million 
of cost savings expected to ﬂow through in 
2013 together with further improvement in 
gross margins as new products come on 
stream and price increases take effect.
Strategically, the changes made to our 
operations over the past two years to focus 
on core brands, customers and sales 
channels has made a clear and beneﬁcial 
difference to the Group. With fewer brands 
to manage, our efforts are concentrated on 
those brands with critical size selling to a 
core customer base that understands our 
products and knows how to sell them. 
Added to this, we have a good 
infrastructure that works well and is 
capable of managing sales growth as 
and when our markets recover.
Armour Home
Armour Home is one of the UK’s leading 
suppliers of hi-ﬁ, home cinema, audio visual 
cables, television furniture and multi-room 
entertainment products. It designs, 
develops and distributes award winning 
products that are sold primarily in the UK 
through retail and the house building 
markets. The economic downturn has 
continued to hit hard Armour Home’s core 
markets and demand for our products, with 
Our response to the 
challenging market 
conditions has been 
a comprehensive 
restructuring programme 
across the Group 
operations.
4 Armour Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 February March April May June
CTi GPS/GSM Antennae  
with Fakra connector
Extended range of GPS/GSM Antennae.
Q Install 
“Professional 
Series”
The ﬁrst models 
of a new range of 
superior in-ceiling 
loudspeakers for 
the commercial 
and domestic 
custom installation 
market.
QED “Performance 
Graphite” Optical
Award winning specialist 
high quality optical 
digital connecting cable 
for cable/satellite boxes 
and home cinema 
systems. 
consumer conﬁdence remaining resolutely 
weak. Sales in the year fell by 30% to 
£18.9 million resulting in an operating loss 
before exceptional costs of £1.2 million.
Over the past two years, Armour Home 
has undergone a signiﬁcant restructuring, 
which was completed during the year.  
In last year’s annual report the targeted cost 
savings in Armour Home were identiﬁed at 
£2.2 million. The actual cost savings 
delivered in the year were £2.5 million, with 
a further £1 million of savings anticipated in 
the new ﬁnancial year to 31 August 2013. 
In addition, the re-establishment of gross 
margins in the business was another key 
area targeted for improvement and the 
business delivered in 2012 a two percentage 
point increase in gross margins that added 
£0.4 million to the proﬁt of the business. 
As with the cost savings, further 
improvement in margins are expected in 
2013. Whilst these improvements have not 
offset the impact of the sales volume falls in 
2012, there are encouraging signs that they 
form the basis for the sustained recovery of 
Armour Home and have been fundamental 
in returning the division to its breakeven 
position in the ﬁrst months of the new 
ﬁnancial year.
Sales into the UK retail channel have again 
been difﬁcult with a year on year decline of 
32%. Hardest hit, and the principal cause 
of the sales decline in this channel, has 
been the Alphason brand of audio visual 
furniture where sales were down 52%. 
Falling sales of televisions and a business 
decision to withdraw from supplying entry 
level product to the mass market retailers 
on the basis of the low ﬁnancial return are 
the reasons behind the large fall in sales in 
this audio visual furniture category. 
Elsewhere, there were encouraging 
performances from our other core brands. 
Our award winning Q Acoustics speaker 
brand reported a 50% increase in sales 
across the year, with both the Q7000 and 
Q2000i ranges performing well. QED, 
which is also an award winning brand in the 
hi-ﬁ market and whose sales were broadly 
ﬂat across the year, reported 19% year on 
year sales growth in the last six months of 
the year, reversing a three year declining 
trend. The strategy pursued of focusing on 
our core brands, products and customers 
is working in this channel and the business 
is starting to realise the beneﬁts. With more 
product awards in 2012 and new product 
launches scheduled, sales through this 
channel are expected to show continued 
improvement in 2013.
Sales through our UK home automation 
channel have had a turbulent year resulting 
in a sales decline of 42%. We discontinued 
the distribution of three third party brands, 
which together account for 66% of the fall 
in sales, and completed a reorganisation of 
the operations serving this sales channel. 
As part of the reorganisation, we have also 
implemented the strategy of focusing on 
core brands, products and customers, 
which has worked well in the UK retail sales 
channel. Whilst the reorganisation caused 
considerable disruption at the beginning of 
the year, which has undoubtedly hit sales, 
the beneﬁts of the changes made in both 
operations and strategy are becoming 
evident with sales in the second half of the 
year showing steady and progressive 
growth. This progress, taken together with 
the new products launched over the last 
year, particularly the Q Install range of 
in-ceiling speakers and more recently our 
next generation of installed audio systems, 
Systemline E200, is expected to deliver a 
continuing recovery in this sales channel.
Export sales in 2012 have had a mixed year 
with overall sales falling by 3%. Almost all 
of the sales decline is accounted for by 
discontinued products that were not 
replaced on a like for like basis in 2012. 
There have been good sales performances 
from Q Acoustics speakers, QED cables 
and Goldring record player styli, all of which 
reported year on year sales growth. 
Geographically, our strongest international 
markets were Scandinavia and Russia, 
both of which delivered signiﬁcant growth 
in 2012. It was reported at the half year that 
as part of a divisional strategy to dilute the 
division’s exposure to UK retail, Armour 
Home had invested in direct sales 
representation covering mainland Europe, 
the Middle East and Australia. These 
initiatives are progressing and the division 
is seeing incremental sales growth, 
particularly in Europe and the Middle East 
where new customers and territories are 
coming on stream and ordering regularly.
The division had another successful 
awards ceremony in October at the What 
Hi-Fi? Sound and Vision Awards. Armour 
Home won seven awards, three for our  
Q Acoustics speaker brand, two for our 
QED cable brand and one each for the 
distributed brands of Grado and NAD.  
The 2012 awards continue a long tradition 
within Armour Home of designing and 
marketing award winning products and 
brands. These awards are important within 
our industry, inﬂuencing consumer buying 
decisions and therefore driving sales of the 
award winning products.
Armour Automotive
Armour Automotive is the market leader in 
the UK and Sweden supplying audio, video 
and connectivity solutions for in-vehicle 
entertainment and communications. It 
supplies the automotive aftermarket and 
agricultural, commercial and leisure vehicle 
markets. The division has made good 
progress in 2012 delivering an operating 
proﬁt of £1.3 million, which was an increase 
5 www.armourgroup.uk.com
Business review  July August September October 2012
Systemline “E200”
Unique, simple to install, “wipe clean & 
no clutter” kitchen or bedroom in-wall 
iPhone/iPod dock with in-built digital  
radio and clock/timer feature  
and in-ceiling speakers. 
iO G2 Platform  
(iO Play2, iO Talk2)
Next generation hands free and 
music streaming products.
Chief Executive’s statement continued
of 65% over last year. Gross proﬁt margins 
have also increased, albeit modestly, over 
the course of the year and operating costs 
have been reduced by £0.4 million.
Armour Automotive, as with Armour Home, 
has seen the UK retail sales channel 
struggle in 2012 with weakening demand 
reﬂecting the wider lack of consumer 
conﬁdence. However, its non-retail sales 
have continued to expand with solid growth 
in the agricultural, commercial and leisure 
vehicle markets and the GSM/GPS 
antennae market. This sales growth has 
compensated for the decline in retail sales 
and for the ﬁrst time, non-retail sales 
exceeded UK retail sales. 
The UK retail sales performance has again 
been weak due to market conditions with 
sales falling 6% on the prior year, which 
was broadly in line with our expectation. 
Both the key accounts and independent 
retail sales channels experienced declines 
with all the core brands feeling the impact 
of the wider economic slowdown. Despite 
the decline in sales, we believe that our 
core Autoleads connectivity brand, which 
accounts for 62% of our UK retail sales, is 
increasing its UK market share through a 
combination of new products, weaker 
competition and a focused sales strategy. 
We do expect a further fall of approximately 
5% in the UK retail sales channel as the 
market continues to contract through 2013.
The non-retail business that focuses on 
audio and video solutions for agricultural, 
commercial and leisure vehicles and GSM/
GPS antennae has had another good year 
with sales increasing by 13%. As with last 
year, we have seen demand grow across 
almost our entire customer base and have 
also added new customers during the year. 
A key area of development has been a new 
in-vehicle audio platform designed 
speciﬁcally for the commercial vehicle 
market and particularly the agricultural 
vehicle market, where Armour Automotive 
supply most of the major manufacturers in 
Europe. This new platform has now been 
adopted by two of our core agricultural 
vehicle customers with a further three 
evaluating trial units. We expect this new 
audio platform to deliver further incremental 
sales growth in our non-retail business 
through 2013 as more customers adopt 
and incorporate the platform into their own 
product offering.
Armour Nordic, our business in 
Scandinavia that forms part of Armour 
Automotive, has had a more difﬁcult year 
with sales falling by 7%. It has been clear 
as the year progressed that the 
Scandinavian retail market was weakening 
both in the automotive and home markets. 
This in turn has hit the performance of 
Armour Nordic with both sales and proﬁts 
showing a decline. In response to the 
weaker market, we have reduced our cost 
base and expect to see these savings to 
beneﬁt performance in 2013.
We recently announced the launch of our 
next generation of in-vehicle music 
streaming and hands free solutions 
marketed under our iO brand. There are 
two new products in the range, iO Play2, 
which is aimed at the consumer market 
and iO Talk2, which is targeted at the 
professional and business markets. Both 
products incorporate leading edge wireless 
technology that introduces a number of 
unique features and improvements in 
functionality to signiﬁcantly enhance sound 
quality, driver safety and ease of use. The 
products have been well received by the 
market and we expect that the iO brand will 
make a signiﬁcant contribution to Armour 
Automotive’s future sales both in the UK 
and international markets.
Armour Asia
Armour Asia is the Group’s wholly owned 
subsidiary based in Hong Kong that 
represents our interest across Asia/Paciﬁc. 
Our operations cover sales activities into 
thirteen countries across the region and 
also provide quality control and technical 
liaison for the UK operations with our 
manufacturing partners. This year has been 
one of consolidation for our Asia business 
after a difﬁcult 2011. Nevertheless, sales for 
Armour Asia increased by 7% to £1.2 million 
with China again being the largest market. 
We have also started this year to develop 
products that are speciﬁcally targeted at the 
Asian markets with the ﬁrst of these being 
launched under our Q Acoustics and QED 
brands in August 2012. Our expectation is 
that Armour Asia will continue to grow sales 
through 2013 on the back of new products 
and improved distribution.
New product development
The Group is a product based business 
and new product development is a 
fundamental part of our strategy for the 
future growth of both sales and gross 
margin. Despite the restructuring of the 
Group over the past two years, we have 
continued to invest in developing 
successful and award winning products 
for both the home and automotive markets. 
The key product launches in 2012 include 
our new iO in-vehicle hands free music 
streaming products; our new audio 
platform designed for the agricultural 
vehicle market; Systemline E200, our new 
installed home audio system; and a range 
of digital cables and wireless connectivity 
solutions under our QED brand. The new 
product plans for 2013 are well advanced 
and a number of products are scheduled 
for launch over the coming months.
Outlook 
It is extremely difﬁcult to forecast accurately 
in the current economic environment, 
particularly in the consumer facing  
markets that we serve. However, there  
are encouraging signs that the prospects 
for the Group are improving, the most 
important of these being at Armour Home. 
We believe that we have sized the Group 
correctly for our markets, we have made 
signiﬁcant progress in improving our 
margins and should consumer conﬁdence 
pick up in 2013, which is being predicted by 
a number of economic forecasters, the 
Group’s progress to a sustained recovery 
should continue.
Alphason “Chromium” 
“Osmium” and 
“Francium” 
Highly styled new  
TV stands which 
complement today’s 
thin and elegant  
large screen  
televisions.
6 Armour Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
