 08 /  Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Q // What is Premier’s business model and growth strategy?
A // Premier seeks to offer both our investors and our
employees above average growth opportunities within business
units that are themselves good quality businesses. This will be
reflected in a rising production profile from our operations and
development activities. We will continue to set ourselves targets –
75,000 boepd by the end of 2012 and 100,000 boepd in the
medium-term – which are challenging but achievable. We expect
to source further growth from a combination of acquisitions and
organic exploration success. We expect to play a growing role in
the places in which we choose to do business, which in itself will
generate a stream of future opportunities. Over time, we have
greatly widened our access to different sources of capital so that
our financial strength has become a real asset to the business.
Q // What were the highlights of 2011?
A // In 2011, Premier continued to grow through acquisition,
development and our own exploration activities. We have taken our
skills as a development operator in South East Asia, proved them on
new projects and are building up a comparable skill set in the North
Sea. Our exploration programme is focused on areas where we have
a spread of acreage and a deep understanding of the geology. We
are better placed than ever to achieve material resource additions
from our planned programmes.
Key milestones in achieving our growth in 2011 came from our
project teams in Indonesia and Vietnam who achieved excellent
results in bringing two major operated projects on-stream on a
timely basis and in line with original cost projections. This was a big
step forward for our Asian business. Less visibly, but just as valuable
for the future, I believe we have made great strides in a number of
other areas. Our geologists and geophysicists enhanced their
understanding of the petroleum systems in both the Natuna Sea
and the UK Central North Sea, adjacent to existing Premier
discoveries, and this will be reflected in the drilling programmes
established for 2012 and beyond. Our commercial teams in London
and Aberdeen have made great progress on the shape, structure
and schedules for new projects, especially in the North Sea. Our
operations staff have worked tirelessly to ensure that asset integrity,
safety and the environment are at the top of our priority list. All such
efforts are critical to the overall success of the company.
An interview with Simon Lockett
Simon Lockett answers questions posed about Premier Oil,
its performance during 2011 and the strategy for future success.
Continued Growth… Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements /  09
Q // How and where will you expand geographically?
A // The group is well established in the North Sea and in South East Asia. We expect that the majority
of our resources, both personnel and financial, will continue to be directed at these core businesses. We
have the ambition over time to develop a third geographic area of expertise, though only when the right
opportunities emerge and when the skills we already have in subsurface and engineering can be successfully
applied. Leading the way are our new venture teams who are already taking us into new geographies, albeit
in ways which seek to address the challenges of new country entry. In 2011, for example, we obtained two
new exploration licences in offshore Kenya and significantly expanded our acreage portfolio in the Norwegian
sector of the North Sea. Other geographies are under review for 2012.
Q // In 2011, you made a number of acquisitions. Are you looking for future acquisitions?
A // We continually look at potential acquisitions as a way of building up our knowledge of assets in
our core areas, though we are in the fortunate position that our internal growth profile is already strong.
Completed acquisition transactions have typically happened in times of market dislocation, which creates
new opportunities. In 2009, at a low point in the oil price cycle, we completed major acquisitions in the UK
and in Vietnam. In 2011, the commodity markets held up well but the capital markets, especially for smaller
companies, were weak and development finance scarce. Our recent five completed acquisitions, all in the
North Sea, reflected for the most part this opportunity and we are pleased to have added around 60 million
barrels of oil equivalent (mmboe) of reserves and resources to the portfolio at a cost of less than US$8/bbl.
We expect 2012 to be another active year in the acquisition markets as the challenging conditions,
especially in the bank sector, seem destined to continue.
Q // What are the biggest challenges facing Premier going forward?
A // We operate in a highly competitive world where both good quality human and natural resources
are scarce. We have been successful in retaining our people and in building up teams to execute new projects.
Our headcount has doubled from 300 to over 600 in the last four years. Our share-based incentive package
offers good upside to employees if the company performs well but also ties in our employees for up to six years
before this upside is realised. In my experience people enjoy the challenges offered by a growth programme.
On the asset side, continuing access to good quality acreage is critical to the long-term growth of the
company. We constantly review new opportunities around the world which come to us via licensing rounds,
knowledge of our partners’ and competitors’ strategies and through strong government relationships in the
areas in which we operate.
Q // Can Premier continue to build on its successes in the future?
A // I believe that our combination of technical skills and financial strength positions us well for the
future. Our operations in the Natuna Sea and in the UK Central North Sea are very well established and
continue to offer opportunities for further growth. We can see a path to production of 100,000 barrels of oil
equivalent per day (boepd) from existing projects in the medium-term. Our portfolio is already positioned
for success beyond that with ongoing developments and an active exploration programme. 10 /  Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements
Q // Can Premier continue to build
on its successes?
A // Our portfolio is already positioned
for growth beyond 2015. 1
Review Focus
Chim Sáo
An organic growth asset
Location / Vietnam
PREMIER BROUGHT CHIM SÁO ON-STREAM SAFELY AND ON BUDGET
IN OCTOBER 2011. THE FIELD, WHICH IS THE FIRST OIL FIELD IN THE
NAM CON SON BASIN TO BE DELIVERED, IS PERFORMING AHEAD OF
EXPECTATIONS WITH ADDITIONAL UPSIDE OPPORTUNITIES.
Profile   /  Premier discovered the Chim Sáo oil field in November 2006. The subsequent
drilling programme prompted Premier to proceed rapidly to development, final approval for
which was achieved in November 2008. Rising steel prices caused Premier to opt for a single
central platform with long reach drilling. This resulted in a gross cost saving of US$112 million
against alternative development concepts. The platform jacket and topsides were installed
during 2010 and the conversion of the FPSO was completed in June 2011. The field was brought
on-stream in October 2011, only six years after the initial discovery, and gas exports commenced
in December 2011. Deliverability of Chim Sáo is ahead of expectations and its cargoes are being
sold at a premium to average Dated Brent. To date 12 wells (nine producers and three water
injectors) have been drilled and total drilling cost is expected to come in below budget.
Outlook  /
• Additional upside remains and reserves increasing
– Optimise development of Chim Sáo
– Better reservoir qualities than prognosed
– Successful appraisal of the Oligocene (Cau) at deeper levels
• Chim Sáo North West
– Additional gross resource estimate 13-20 million barrels with further potential upside to
be appraised
– Chim Sáo North West to be tied in to existing facilities
• Tie in of the nearby Dua field to the Chim Sáo facilities by 2014 Phil MacLaurin
Country Manager
The successful and safe
delivery of Chim Sáo
demonstrates our ability
to operate to the highest
standards throughout the
cycle. We now look to
recreate this achievement
with Dua, a tie-back to
Chim Sáo, which achieved
project sanction in
December 2011. We will
also appraise the new
accumulation at Chim
Sáo North West as a near
field tie-back opportunity
in 2012.”
“  12 /  Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements
Q // What is the key factor in your success?
A // We have been successful in retaining
our talent pool and building our
capabilities to execute new projects. 2
Review Focus
Gajah Baru
Meeting increasing Singapore demand
Location / Indonesia
FIRST GAS PRODUCTION FROM GAJAH BARU WAS ACHIEVED WITHIN
BUDGET IN OCTOBER 2011. VOLUMES FROM THE FIELD CONTINUE TO
INCREASE WITH CURRENT PRODUCTION RATES AVERAGING ~60-90 BBTUD.
THIS MARKS THE SECOND PHASE OF GAS INTO SINGAPORE FROM THE
PREMIER-OPERATED NATUNA SEA BLOCK A.
Profile  /  Premier discovered and successfully appraised the Gajah Baru gas field in 2000 and
2004, respectively. In 2008, we negotiated three further GSAs enabling Gajah Baru gas to be
sold into the Singaporean and Indonesian domestic markets. The development plan was
approved in 2008 and a second tender for the EPCI contract was completed in March 2009
(gross cost saving of US$100 million). 2011 saw the CPP connected to the WHP on schedule and
on budget and the gas export equipment tied into the WNTS pipeline. The five development
well programme was completed in February 2011 and provided in excess of 200 BBtud of gas
deliverability. Gas exports from Gajah Baru commenced in October 2011. Volumes continue to
ramp up towards 90 BBtud. On completion of a Gas Swap, an additional 40 BBtud will be
delivered from Gajah Baru at Indonesian domestic prices.
Outlook  /
• Next phase of development projects being worked on:
– Anoa Phase 4 sanctioned and EPCI contract awarded
– Project sanction for Pelikan and Naga expected imminently
• Returned to exploration on block:
– Anoa Deep, which spudded in February 2012, was successful, testing gas with a flow rate
of 17 mmscfd 
– Biawak Besar is currently drilling with results expected in April 2012
• Total sales capacity from Block A will increase to 400 BBtud over time  Roberto Lorato
President Premier Indonesia
Gajah Baru has the plant
capacity to produce in
excess of 200 BBtud,
significantly more than
contracted quantities.
This, along with our
pipeline of future projects
on Natuna Sea Block A,
will put us in a strong
position to benefit from
rising demand from
Singapore and Indonesia.”
“  14 /  Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements
Q // Will you expand geographically?
A // Only when the right opportunities
emerge. 3
Review Focus
Catcher
One of the largest North Sea discoveries in recent years
Location / North Sea
PREMIER HAS INCREASED ITS STAKE IN THE IMPORTANT CATCHER
PROJECT TO 50 PER CENT AND HAS TAKEN OVER OPERATORSHIP .
DEVELOPMENT STUDIES ARE WELL ADVANCED AND A DECISION ON THE
CONCEPTUAL DESIGN IS EXPECTED DURING THE FIRST HALF OF 2012.
Profile  /  Premier acquired an interest in the Catcher area as a result of its 2009 Oilexco
acquisition. The Catcher discovery in 2010 pointed to the presence of much lighter oil than
anticipated and proved that hydrocarbons could migrate to the outer margins of the Central
North Sea. Follow up wells, 28/9-2, 3 and 4, were drilled between January 2011 and March 2011
discovering the Varadero and Burgman fields and appraising Catcher North. The six penetrations
drilled to date have estimated discovered reserves in the order of 80 million barrels. In October
2011, Premier made a recommended acquisition of EnCore for cash with a share alternative. The
acquisition completed in January 2012 with shareholders representing 93.5 per cent of EnCore
shares electing to take Premier shares. Operatorship of Catcher was transferred to Premier and
Premier’s working interest increased from 35 per cent to 50 per cent.
Outlook  /
• Formal concept selection, which is expected in the first half of 2012, will be followed by further
engineering studies on the chosen concept ahead of development approval by year-end
• Additional upside remains on the block with further exploration planned:
– Carnaby will be drilled in April 2012 with results expected in May 2012
– The Coaster prospect on the adjoining block to Catcher
– Additional prospects on the Catcher Block include Bonneville, Cougar, Rapide and Rocket
• Premier plans to pursue the knowledge it has acquired from its activities in the Catcher area
to other margin plays in the UK Central North Sea
