 06 /  Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
This strong operational
and financial performance
supports continuing
investment in new
opportunities, an increasingly
material exploration programme
and the initiation of a dividend
payout for the year.”
“
Mike Welton
Chairman The industry context
2012 was a year of difficult macroeconomic conditions and depressed capital markets. The
energy industry, however, has performed strongly and continues to present opportunities for
growth. Signs of recovery in western economies and world financial markets are at an early
stage, but it is encouraging to start 2013 on a stronger note. Commodity prices have
remained remarkably stable, providing a healthy backdrop for continuing investment and
new opportunities. Although costs are rising in some areas, good projects are still earning
attractive rates of return.
Premier’s performance
Premier has again achieved strong growth in the value of the underlying assets of the
business. In 2012 we increased production by 43 per cent, cash flow by 66 per cent and
report record profitability for a fifth successive year. Reserves and resources now amount to
773 million barrels of oil equivalent (mmboe) compared to 513 mmboe at the end of 2011.
Four new projects also received development approval during the course of the year. While
we invested in excess of US$250 million in acquisitions and US$772 million in development
and exploration projects during the year, balance sheet gearing remained stable at 36 per
cent and is well within our target range. We continue to have good access to several
sources of debt capital, both reducing our average cost of debt and extending its maturity.
This strong operational and financial performance supports continuing investment in new
opportunities, an increasingly material exploration programme and the initiation of a
dividend payout for the year.
Premier’s growth plans
Building on the new fields which came on-stream in Indonesia and Vietnam in late 2011,
2012 saw a significant increase in group production. 2012 average production of 57.7 thousand
barrels of oil equivalent per day (kboepd) will rise to a run rate of around 75 kboepd as two
new fields, Huntington and Rochelle, come on-stream. Looking further ahead, we have
made significant steps in progressing the Solan and Catcher projects, which are expected
on-stream in 2014 and 2016 respectively. These new fields, together with our existing
producing areas, will underpin our medium-term production target of 100,000 boepd.
We continue to invest in new project opportunities where we see the potential for attractive
returns for shareholders. We are delighted to have secured the operatorship and a large
equity interest in the Sea Lion field in the Falkland Islands. Our project team is already
working closely with both the Falkland Islands and the UK Governments to deliver an
approved development plan by the middle of 2014. We also look forward to our first
exploration campaign in the Falkland Islands which further builds up our increasingly
material drilling programme.
Our 2012 exploration programme delivered successes in the UK, Pakistan and Indonesia.
These are valuable additions to the portfolio due to their proximity to existing producing
assets. In the UK Central North Sea, our exploration drilling programme attempted to
replicate the successes we had in the Catcher area in previous years. However, with the
exception of the Carnaby discovery in a new play area west of the Catcher development,
the programme was unsuccessful. This serves to underline the necessity, as we grow our
production and development asset base, to identify new basin opportunities for future
exploration away from the more mature areas in the North Sea and South East Asia. Our
exploration and new venture teams have done an excellent job in identifying and negotiating
entry into such opportunities offshore Kenya, in the North Falklands Basin, in the Phu Khanh
basin in Vietnam, in the Mandal High area in Norway and in Southern Iraq. Over the course
of 2012, the team added approximately 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent (bnboe) of
prospective resources to the portfolio. We look forward to maturing these for drilling over
the next two to three years. Success in any of these locations, because of the nature of their
play-opening potential, will be transformational for Premier.
