 Focus of the Board
As the group and its scope of operations expand, the Board has taken a number of initiatives
to ensure longer-term plans can be delivered successfully. A comprehensive strategy review
incorporating asset profiles, capital allocation and funding plans was completed in the first half
of 2012 and has been reviewed again by the Board in the first quarter of 2013.
Significant progress has been made in the way in which risks are identified, analysed and
mitigated throughout our operations, reporting back to the Board via the Audit and Risk
Committee. The Board’s Nomination Committee has, with the help of the senior management
team, taken new initiatives in succession planning, career development and competency
programmes. Members of the Remuneration Committee have held a number of meetings with
key shareholders and advisory bodies to ensure that our remuneration policies achieve an
appropriate balance between reward for our investors and incentives for our employees. At the
Board level, we continue to devote significant time to the management of the critical issues of
health, safety and the environment. The group’s improving record in all of these areas is
testament to this effort. However, the tragic accident in December in which a crew member on
an emergency standby vessel close to our Balmoral facilities lost his life in extreme weather, is a
sad reminder of the need for constant vigilance and determination by all industry participants.
Returns to shareholders
We recognise that the upstream industry is a sector in which substantial capital growth can be
achieved by companies focused on short-term exploration success. Such exploration activity
yields potentially attractive but inconsistent returns. It is our objective to provide investors with
consistent growth, above that of the major companies in our industry, but with the potential for
higher returns through our exploration activities.
Premier’s share price today stands higher than at 1 January 2012 and over a five-year period
has significantly outperformed the FTSE All-Share Oil and Gas Producers Index. However, we
recognise that the share price has not kept pace with the growth in value of the underlying
assets of the business. The onus is on the Board and the executive team to deliver on our
growth plan and to demonstrate an improved return on our exploration programme, so that a
higher market rating will be achieved.
The Board has also considered again our policy in respect of shareholder distribution. As
foreshadowed at the Annual General Meeting in May 2012, the Board intends to propose a
2012 dividend of 5 pence per share, to be approved by shareholders at the June 2013 Annual
General Meeting. The level of future payouts will depend on the progression of cash flow over
time and the capital required to fund our investment opportunities, but the Board believes that
the payment of a sustainable dividend underlines our confidence in rising cash flows, the strength
of our balance sheet and the quality of our asset base. It is a reward too for the loyalty of our
shareholders. We also thank our employees, all of whom participate as shareholders through
our employee long-term incentive plans, for all of their hard work in 2012. We all look forward to
2013 and the continuing growth in the company as it achieves its medium-term aspirations.
Mike Welton
Chairman Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements /  07
