 Chief Executive’s Review 
In the year to 31 August 2013, the financial results for the Group 
provided hard evidence that the Group’s recovery from the impact 
of the economic downturn is well underway. The operating  
profit of £0.6 million in the year represents a £1.8 million 
improvement from the loss reported in the 2012 results. All our 
operating businesses showed good improvement on their prior 
year performances, and in the case of Armour Home, our home 
entertainment division, this improvement has been significant.
In terms of the Group’s financial performance in 2013,  
we achieved an increase of one percentage point in gross margin 
worth an estimated £0.2 million in the year and a further reduction 
in our cost base of £2.5 million. The one area of disappointment 
was the 7% fall in sales, which was primarily driven by a continuing 
decline of sales in our audio visual furniture category within the 
Alphason brand in Armour Home. However, within the overall 
Group sales figure there were some very encouraging 
performances by core brands and particularly the growth 
recorded in our international sales, which were up 15%  
at £11.6 million.
Strategically, we have continued to focus on developing the core 
brands in our portfolio, our key customers and sales channels 
whilst optimising the cost base and gross margins within the 
Group. I believe that good progress has been made in respect  
of all these strategic objectives in 2013 and I am confident that 
further progress and improvement will be achieved in 2014.
Armour Home
Armour Home is one the UK’s leading brand owners of hi-fi,  
home cinema, audio visual cables, television furniture and audio 
distribution systems. It designs, develops and distributes award 
winning products that are sold primarily in the UK through retail 
and the housebuilding markets.
The economic crisis has been the cause of a particularly difficult 
period for Armour Home. The division has gone through a major 
restructuring that was completed in 2012 and, in 2013, the benefits 
of this restructuring have started to become evident in the financial 
results with a welcome return to profit. 
Sales in the year fell by 14% to £16.1 million, but due to the 
continued improvement in the gross margin and a further 
reduction of £2.4 million in the operating cost base, Armour Home 
reported a profit of £0.1 million. This represents a £1.3 million 
turnaround from the underlying operating loss reported in 2012.
Sales in the year started well with a stronger than expected first  
six months followed by a slower than anticipated second half of 
the year. Geographically, the UK’s sales underperformed and were 
down 23% on the prior year at £11.4 million, masking a very good 
performance internationally, where sales were up 19% at £4.7 
million. In the UK market, as part of our strategy to focus on our 
core business and brands, we took the decision to reduce our 
reliance on third party brands and have consequently withdrawn 
from a number of distribution arrangements that are not 
considered core or complementary to our proprietary brand 
portfolio. This has undoubtedly had a negative impact on the 2013 
sales in both the retail and installed/home automation product 
channels. However, we believe that in the medium term this decision 
will result in an improved financial performance for the business 
coming from a stronger and more focused brand portfolio. 
Consumer demand for home entertainment electronics in the  
UK remains subdued and, whilst there are encouraging signs  
of recovery, it could well be another twelve to eighteen months 
before demand gathers real momentum.
Retail products
Sales of our retail consumer products have had a mixed year  
with an overall decline of 16% to £12.9 million. The UK market, 
which accounts for 70% of all retail products sales, has remained 
quite challenging, experiencing a sales, decline of 25% with weak 
market conditions and discontinued brands contributing to the fall. 
This decline more than outweighed an excellent international sales 
performance, which was up by 11%. 
The biggest decline in retail sales in UK was in the Alphason 
branded range of audio visual furniture, which accounted for  
77% of the overall sales decline in the retail products channel.  
This product category has been a problem area for the business 
for the last three years. However, sales have now stabilised  
and we believe that the market has bottomed out and we  
do not anticipate any further deterioration in sales in this area  
of our business. 
On a more positive note in the UK, we recorded another year  
of strong sales growth in our award winning Q Acoustics brand  
of hi-fi speakers, with the new Concept 20 speakers selling 
particularly well. In addition, our Alphason office furniture category 
reported a healthy sales increase as has the Goldring range  
of turntable styli, which is being driven by resurgent demand  
for vinyl recorded music.
Internationally, our retail products have had a good year  
with sales increasing by 11% with both Q Acoustics and  
QED, our hi-fi cable brand, performing well. This sales growth  
has come from an increasingly wide range of countries,  
which reflects the implementation of our strategy to broaden  
and increase the geographical generation of revenue. We sold  
into 58 countries with our best performing markets being France, 
Russia, Australia, New Zealand, Denmark and Germany. 
A FOCUSED STRA TEGY
4 Armour Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 “ Strategically , we have continued  
to focus on developing the core 
brands in our portfolio, our key 
customers and sales channels 
whilst optimising the cost base and 
gross margins within the Group. ”
Shareholders
Customers
Employees
New product
development
Brands Customer
service
RESILIENCE
THROUGH
INNOVATION
5 www.armourgroup.uk.com
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Annual General Meeting In 2013, we have made a number of changes to our international 
distribution arrangements as we seek to improve performance 
both in terms of revenue and margin. In Australia and New 
Zealand, where we have our own sales representation, we have 
changed all of our distribution partners to good financial effect.  
In Italy and Holland we have dispensed with our distributors and 
from 1 September, moved to directly supplying our retail partners 
in a similar manner to our operations in France. In these countries 
we have put in place our own sales resource with all the 
warehousing and logistics being managed from our own 
operations based in Wigan.
Installed products
In our sales channel for installed and home automation products, 
sales were down by 10%, which is a mixture of weaker demand  
in the new housebuilding market and our decision to withdraw 
from distributing a number of third party non-core brands. 
Geographically, the sales performance is very similar to that  
of retail products, with UK sales down by 22% and our 
international sales being up 58%. 
A large part of the sales decline in the installed channel relates  
to our withdrawal in the UK from distributing a number of third 
party brands. This was part of the reorganisation implemented  
last year and has allowed the business to focus on our core 
owned brands of Systemline, Q Install, Audica and QED 
Professional, which is a key part of our strategy. Whilst this 
withdrawal has impacted our sales and profit performance  
in 2013, the refocusing of our sales effort and product 
development programmes will, we believe, provide more  
reliable and sustainable future growth based on our core 
proprietary brands. 
A good example of this refocusing is our Q Install range  
of in-ceiling speakers. This range of speakers, which forms part  
of the Q Acoustics brand, was launched in January 2012 following 
our withdrawal from distributing the third party Sonance range  
of installed speakers. Since its launch, Q install has successfully 
delivered good sales growth both in the UK and overseas,  
with sales in 2013 increasing almost threefold on the prior year. 
Internationally, we have seen a significant increase in sales 
following our success in winning a contract that we announced  
in January 2013 for the design and build of an installed in-ceiling 
speaker for a global fashion retailer. Our first delivery was  
in December 2012, and to date we have delivered more than 
12,000 speakers, with the expectation that this will continue  
at a similar sales rate as new stores are brought on stream  
and older stores are refurbished.
Within the installed products category, we are currently working  
on a major refresh of both Systemline and QED Professional as 
well as a second speaker project for our retail fashion customer. 
There are a series of product launches planned over the next six 
months, which we believe will further strengthen our product 
portfolio and add momentum to the recovery in this sales channel.
Awards
Armour Home once again enjoyed a very successful awards 
ceremony in October 2013 at the What Hi-Fi? Sound and Vision 
Awards. Our Q Acoustics brand won five awards, including the 
prestigious Product of the Year award for its Concept 20 speakers. 
In addition to the awards for Q Acoustics, there was a further 
award for the Grado headphone brand, which is distributed by 
Armour Home in the UK on an exclusive basis. The What Hi-Fi? 
Awards are an important influencer on consumer buying decisions 
and drive sales for the award winning products.
Chief Executive’s Review continued 
New product development
• Further investment in our engineering and industrial  
design staff has increased our internal capabilities and 
strengthened our relationships with our chosen product 
development partners.
• On our installation side, we “fast track” developed  
a bespoke speaker to accommodate the refit of an 
international fashion group’s retail outlets. We also 
enhanced our own professional range to allow  
specification for larger installations. 
• For our multi award winning Q Acoustics brand  
we developed the innovative “Gelcore” cabinet used  
in our Q Concept 20 speakers that have been acclaimed  
as Product of the Year.
• We have just released our first Bluetooth speakers that 
combine wireless technology with stunning Q Acoustics 
performance, and we continue to launch technically 
improved cables and interconnects under our award  
winning QED brand.
ARMOUR HOME
REPOSITIONED AND 
BACK TO PROFIT
“ All our operating 
businesses showed good 
improvement on their prior 
year performances, and in 
the case of Armour Home,  
our home entertainment 
division, this improvement 
has been significant. ”
6 Armour Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Brands
• Q Acoustics, our hi-fi and home cinema loudspeaker brand, 
continues to enjoy universal acclaim. Models in the range 
received five prestigious What Hi-Fi? 2013 Awards,  
which is an unprecedented achievement.
• Systemline is our highly regarded brand of home 
entertainment installation products. We are building  
on this reputation by developing an all-new, network based, 
multi room music system and anticipate its launch in 2014.
• Cable and connectivity brand, QED, has introduced a range  
of Bluetooth and DNLA/Wi-Fi wireless connection products, 
which bring conventional hi-fi and home cinema systems  
into the smartphone age.
• Release of new designs from Alphason, our television 
furniture brand, has seen leading retailers such as the  
John Lewis Partnership more than quadruple the number  
of Alphason models they offer.
Customer service
• 99.9% of orders received in the warehouse by 4.30 pm  
were despatched same day for next day delivery, and a  
total of 68,000 separate parcels and pallets were sent  
out over the year.
• All goods-in are processed and available for sale within  
one working day, most being available within four hours.
• We are able to offer our retail customers an online, direct to 
consumer, delivery service. Online orders placed by 3.00 pm 
are processed the same day, for next day delivery.
• Perpetual inventory assessment means greater accuracy 
and no annual stocktaking shut-downs.
“ The Concept 20s are the best speakers  
Q Acoustics has made, and they’ve left  
us searching for superlatives. Rarely has 
choosing a Product of the Year been  
so simple.”
Q Acoustics Concept 20, What Hi-Fi? 
Sound and Vision, October 2013
“ Q Acoustics has developed from fledgling  
to leader in an ultra competitive market.  
Our stores and staff enjoy promoting these 
products to our customers, due to their 
genuine performance, style and value.”
Rob Lawley, Managing Director, 
Sevenoaks Sound & Vision
The restructuring programme, undertaken in 201 1 and 2012,  
has focused Armour Home on its core “own branded” products,  
key routes to market and customer relationships. The resulting sales 
rationalisation has been offset since 201 1 by increased gross margins 
and a £5 million overhead reduction, returning the division this year  
to operating profit.
STEREO SPEAKERS
Q ACOUSTICS CONCEPT 20
PRODUCT OF THE YEAR
7 www.armourgroup.uk.com
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Annual General Meeting Chief Executive’s Review continued 
Armour Nordic, our business based in Sweden that is focused  
on the retail market in Scandinavia, has had a good year.  
Whilst sales were in line with 2012, operating profit was up  
by over 44%. The recent acquisition of the 12 Volt Sverige AB 
business in Sweden, which we announced on 30 October 2013, 
will further strengthen our position in Sweden as the leading 
supplier to the automotive aftermarket for in-vehicle entertainment 
systems. The acquisition is expected to be earnings enhancing  
in 2014 and will add on a full year basis approximately £750,000  
of incremental sales and £80,000 of operating profit. 
Non-retail products
Our non-retail business designs, develops and supplies audio, 
video and antennae solutions for a range of business customers 
primarily focused on the agricultural, commercial and leisure 
vehicle markets. In 2013, non-retail sales grew by 1% with  
a very strong second half of the year making up for a slow  
first six months.
The strongest performance came from the agricultural vehicle 
market where our new bespoke in-vehicle audio platform 
continued to gain traction with a number of major European tractor 
manufacturers. Our largest customer for this platform is Case New 
Holland, where we are now supplying their production facilities on 
a worldwide basis.
In 2014, we expect to see further growth in this sales channel with 
new customers coming on stream and new products generating 
incremental sales from across the customer base.
Armour Automotive
Armour Automotive is the market leader in the UK and Sweden 
supplying audio, video and connectivity solutions for in-vehicle 
entertainment and communications. It supplies the automotive 
aftermarket and agricultural, commercial and leisure vehicle markets.
In 2013 our automotive division has continued to make good 
progress with sales up 1% at £14.5 million and underlying 
operating profit up 18% at £1.5 million. The first six months of the 
year were slower than expected with sales 6% below the prior 
year, although this was more than made up in the second half  
of the year with a strong performance from the non-retail sales 
channel, particularly demand from the agricultural vehicle market.
Retail products
In the UK, retail sales performed reasonably well given the  
difficult market conditions, with sales down 1% on the prior year. 
The key retail accounts, particularly Halfords, outperformed our 
expectations and compensated for weaker sales into the 
independent retail channel. 
Sales of our Autoleads brand of connectivity solutions had  
a strong year in the retail channel with sales up 8% on the  
prior year on the back of good demand from the key customer 
accounts. Autoleads remains the core brand within the retail 
products category, accounting for 66% of sales.
At the end of the last financial year we launched the second 
generation of our iO brand of in-vehicle music streaming and 
hands-free solutions. These new products have made steady 
progress in the retail channel as more retailers and installers adopt 
and list the brand, although sales have been below our original 
expectations. We anticipate that iO sales will accelerate following 
the listing in the summer of 2013, by Halfords, of the iO branded 
products and their current roll out across the Halfords store estate.
New product development
• 60 new products have been launched over the year which 
include 25 in our Autoleads range, 5 CTi antennae and 30 
various products and applications for our OEM customers.
• Over the year, 25,000 new audio units developed and 
launched last year for the agricultural market were sold 
compared to 7,000 units sold last year, a 257% increase. 
• We have strengthened our in-house new product 
development capability in the areas of RF antenna design 
and software engineering, allowing quicker adoption of new 
technologies and response to customer requirements.
• There continue to be many future product possibilities 
including CAN integration of agricultural radio platforms,  
RF antenna covering Glonass and DAB and digital  
video recorders/hard disc drives/camera systems  
using 3G connectivity.
ARMOUR 
AUTOMOTIVE
CONTINUED GROWTH  
AND INCREASED PROFIT
“In 2013 our automotive 
division has continued  
to make good progress 
with sales up 1%  
at £14.5 million and 
underlying operating  
profit up 18%  
at £1.5 million.”
8 Armour Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Brands
• Autoleads, our connectivity brand, continues to gain market 
strength and Halfords has moved to our single brand across 
all its 462 UK stores. Our Veba branded parking sensors have 
also been listed in Halfords for the new season.
• We have achieved 20% growth over two years through  
our Radiomobile brand, further strengthening our audio 
proposition into the OEM sector.
• Our CTi brand supports the growth and development  
of our European Telematic distributors by providing a 
comprehensive product portfolio of 578 product lines.
• Our export sales have increased by 21% over the last  
two years, our customers recognising the value  
of our brands across 25 countries.
Customer service
• Our commercial, leisure and agricultural vehicle manufacturing 
customers recognise the quality of our brands and our 
service and we have increased our sales to them by 14%  
over the last two years.
• We continue to rationalise our inventory but still offer over 5,000 
finished products in our comprehensive product portfolio, 
ensuring the best possible coverage for our customers.
• We have a UK-based technical support team providing our 
customers with dedicated assistance and practical solutions, 
satisfying 21,000 customer enquiries over the past year.
• Our perpetual inventory programme has ensured 99% 
availability for our top 80% of products consistently over  
the course of the year.
• We achieve same day despatch of 97% of orders received 
before 4.00 pm.
“ Armour Automotive’s service and support 
have been key to Halford’s business goals 
and Autoleads has been adopted as its 
single accessory brand throughout the UK.”
Jon Oliver, Buyer: Audio & in-car technology, 
Halfords
“ Armour Automotive consistently support 
excellent levels of customer service.”
Lorenzo Girardi, Electrical Designer,  
Argo Tractors
Over the last two years (201 1 to 2013) whilst sales have increased  
1 % to £14.5 million, gross margin has increased by 2 points equivalent 
to an estimated £200,000 of additional profit. Over the same period 
costs have been reduced by 1 1 % and operating profits have increased 
by 96% to £1.5 million.
9 www.armourgroup.uk.com
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Annual General Meeting Chief Executive’s Review continued 
Armour Asia
Our business in Asia has taken another significant step towards 
profitability in 2013. Sales grew by 27% to £1.5 million and the 
operating loss reduced from £0. 18 million last year to £0.02 million  
in 2013.
Our office in Hong Kong is responsible for managing sales into 
over 15 countries in the region that include Vietnam, South Korea, 
Indonesia, Taiwan, the Philippines and China, which is our largest 
market with sales of £0.6 million. In addition to the sales activities, 
Armour Asia provides an important bridge between our UK-based 
product development and quality teams and our manufacturing 
partners in Asia.
Asia is a large potential market for the Group’s brands and our 
expectation is that Armour Asia will continue to grow and record 
its first full year profit in 2014.
New product development
New products remain a fundamental driver to sales and growth.  
In 2013, the Group continued its investment strategy in its product 
development programmes. This investment ranges from updating 
and refreshing existing product portfolios such as Autoleads and 
QED, to developing and launching wholly new products and 
categories such as the Q Acoustics Concept 20 award winning 
speakers and a new range of vehicle alarm systems under the 
newly created brand Armour Max. There is a busy schedule  
of new products planned for the new financial year, which will 
further build our brands and deliver sales growth.
New product development
• Five new products have been launched this year,  
designed especially for our Asian markets. UK controlled 
design has been coupled with production engineering and 
prototyping in Asia, utilising our strong relationships with 
manufacturing partners.
• The successful launch of Q Entertainment has addressed  
the popular Karaoke pastime. Q Entertainment embodies  
the recognised acoustic excellence of our Q Acoustics brand. 
• Over the year, 35 possible new manufacturing partners were 
visited and evaluated, five furniture manufacturing partners 
were guided through the necessary supplier accreditations  
and 37 4 pre-delivery inspections completed.
ARMOUR ASIA
INCREASED SALES AND 
ENHANCED CAPABILITIES
Outlook
There has been a significant change for the better in 
both the Group’s operational performance and the wider 
economic outlook. Whilst the economic recovery may 
well remain somewhat bumpy, particularly in consumer 
facing markets, there are clear signs that it is gathering 
momentum and the Group is well positioned to take 
advantage as and when our markets benefit from  
this improvement.
George Dexter, Chief Executive
17 December 2013
“ Our business in Asia has 
taken another significant 
step towards profitability  
in 2013. Sales grew by 
27% to £1 .5 million and  
the operating loss reduced 
from £0. 18 million last year 
to £0.02 million in 2013. ”
10 Armour Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Brands
• Sales of our UK award winning connectivity brand, QED, 
increased 49% this year in our Asian markets. The attributes 
of our QED brand are increasingly recognised.
• Q Acoustics is being increasingly promoted, and with  
the introduction of Q Entertainment the brand will also  
be on show in fashion shops, clubs and bars.
• The Myryad brand has achieved year on year Asian sales 
growth of 68%, with new product launches and increasing 
brand recognition, particularly in China. 
Customer service
• Armour Asia has implemented warehouse capabilities  
to allow distribution to Australia, New Zealand, India,  
Russia and America on behalf of the Group’s UK  
operations – a feature that is being expanded.
• Armour Asia sells into 12 countries, with China now  
making up 39% of the total. Over the year, we supported 
trade exhibitions with our distributing partners in China, 
Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand.
• We have provided our customers with brand support, 
particularly in regard to QED, which includes providing  
a specialist to demonstrate our products’ award winning 
attributes and brand qualities to our Asian partners.
“ The Q2000i series give a huge scale  
of super sound from their compact cabinets, 
which are finished in striking high contrast 
piano black or white. Another affordable 
masterpiece from Q Acoustics.”
Echo He, Purchasing Manager,  
Acton International, China
“ Working with Armour is different.  
The Armour team is full of energy,  
very supportive and stands proudly 
behind their brands, making it more 
than a business collaboration.”
Laurence Teo, CEO, Par Audio, 
Singapore
Sales expansion into Asian markets continues with sales up 27%  
to £1 .5 million. In addition to promoting the Group’ s brands in these markets, 
and introducing Asia-specific products, the division provides sourcing  
and quality control services to the UK operations, and over the year has 
enhanced its distribution capabilities. The increased sales volume and  
cost base control has brought the division to approaching breakeven.
11 www.armourgroup.uk.com
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Annual General Meeting
