 A RETURN TO PROFIT AFTER  
A CHALLENGING TWO YEARS
Dear shareholder, 
The year to 31 August 2013 has been one of recovery for the 
Group and I am pleased to report that there has been a return  
to profit, with all the operating businesses making good progress. 
Of particular importance has been the recovery in Armour  
Home, which has returned to profit after two difficult and 
challenging years. 
Group sales for the year were £32. 1 million (2012: £34.4 million),  
which generated a profit from operations before interest and tax  
of £0.6 million (2012: Loss before interest, tax and exceptional  
items of £1.2 million). There were no exceptional items in the year 
(2012: £1 1. 1 million). The basic earnings per ordinary share were 
0.04p (2012: Loss per ordinary share before exceptional items  
of 1.56p). Group net debt at 31 August 2013 was £7 .6 million  
(2012: £7 .6 million).
The core retail markets that we serve have remained challenging, 
particularly in the UK, where consumer confidence continues  
to be fragile despite the encouraging signs of a more sustained 
economic recovery. The over-reliance on UK generated sales  
has been recognised by the Board and, as a consequence,  
one of the core parts of our strategy has been to develop our 
international business. In 2013, we have made good progress  
on this with our international sales increasing by 15% on the prior  
year, which now account for 36% of all Group sales, up from  
29% last year. We have also continued to reduce our cost base 
with a further 17% reduction in our operating costs in the year  
to 31 August 2013, which equates to a saving of £2.5 million  
on the prior year. These savings exceed those anticipated this  
time last year, when I reported that we were targeting a further  
£1 million of additional savings in 2013.
Armour Automotive has made steady progress increasing  
sales by 1% in the year to £14.5 million and increasing underlying 
operating profit by 18% to £1.5 million. The year started slowly  
but accelerated in the second half with another strong performance 
from the non-retail sales channel, with the agricultural vehicle market 
again being the key sales driver for the business.
Armour Home has delivered significant improvement in 2013. 
Whilst sales fell in the year by 14% to £16.1 million, the operating 
result has been turned from an underlying £1.2 million loss 
reported last year into a £0.1 million profit. The UK remained  
a difficult market in terms of sales, but good progress has been 
made internationally with strong sales growth coming from a wide 
range of geographical markets. The cost base of the business has 
been further reduced and once again gross margins increased. 
There is still some way to go in the recovery of Armour Home,  
but the results reported this year show that we are making good 
progress and the future looks considerably more positive than  
for some time.
Armour Asia, our business based in Hong Kong that serves the 
Asian markets, recorded a 27% increase in sales to £1.5 million. 
Whilst this resulted in a small operating loss, the result was much 
improved on 2012. The development of our sales network in Asian 
markets forms a key part of our strategy of broadening the 
international reach of the Group. We can see from the progress 
being made in Armour Asia that the business is reaching a critical 
mass, which we believe positions it to deliver a sustainable 
ongoing profit.
We remain committed to developing class-leading products and 
this is a core element of the Group strategy. Throughout the year 
we have continued to invest in new products across our core 
brands as well as developing customer specific products. It is this 
investment that drives future sales and I remain confident that the 
products being developed and launched by the Group’s operating 
divisions will deliver sales growth in 2014 and beyond.
The Group’s employees are an important asset and a fundamental 
part of the future success of the Group. I would like to take this 
opportunity of thanking them, on behalf of the Board, for their 
professionalism, commitment and effort over the past year.
The Group has made a considerable amount of progress over  
the past two years and it is very pleasing to see this reflected  
in the results for 2013. I am delighted to report that this progress  
is continuing and our trading performance in the first quarter  
of the new financial year is showing improvement on the 
comparative period in both sales and operating profit. There is still 
work to be done as we recover from the difficulties of the last two 
years, however we remain confident that our strategy is right and 
with the improving wider economic outlook, there are grounds  
for optimism.
Bob Morton, Chairman
17 December 2013
Restructuring
There has been a return to profit with all  
operating businesses making good progress.
Award winning 
In October 2013 our Q Acoustics brand won  
five What Hi-Fi? Sound and Vision awards.
Global reach
Our International sales increased by 15%  
on the prior year.
Chairman’s Statement
Key achievements
1 www.armourgroup.uk.com
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Annual General Meeting
