 06 /  Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The world around us
Many Western economies are in recession and the stability of the
Eurozone, in particular, is under threat. As a result, 2011 was a year of
depressed financial markets and challenging access to capital.
Politically, dramatic changes are taking place, notably in North Africa.
The magnitude of these changes, in difficult economic circumstances,
presents significant challenges. Against this background, the energy
sector continues to prosper with strength in commodity prices driven by
Asian growth and resilient demand elsewhere. Finding and extracting
large hydrocarbon accumulations, particularly oil, in mature areas is by
definition becoming more challenging. However, with technological
change and through accessing unconventional resources, exemplified
by the shale revolution in North America, the industry is continuing to
respond to consistently strong demand for energy on a global basis.
Premier’s performance
Premier’s achievements in 2011 demonstrate that there is a role for
companies of our size. The successful completion of our two operated
development projects in Asia – commercialising over 100 million barrels
of oil and gas, investing some US$1.6 billion on behalf of ourselves and
our partners and employing at peak over 3,500 staff and contractors –
was a world-class achievement. We will look to maintain and build on
those skills within Premier as we move forward with new operated
development projects.
The new projects in Asia contributed to meeting successfully our 2011
year-end production target of 60 thousand barrels of oil equivalent 
per day (kboepd). Average production for 2011 was 40.4 kboepd (2010:
42.8 kboepd). In common with many other operators in the North Sea,
this was adversely affected by unplanned downtime in a number of our
UK North Sea fields in the early part of the year. I am pleased to report
that UK production recovered well in the second half of the year,
continuing into the early months of 2012. It remains a top priority for our
operations team in Aberdeen not just to maintain production levels, but
to ensure the integrity of our production infrastructure as many fields in
the North Sea move towards the end of their natural life.
Alongside proven operating and development skills, it has never been
more important to maintain the balance sheet strength and liquidity to
finance such projects. Our strong financial position enabled us to deliver
on five acquisitions during the year, adding some 60 million barrels of
reserves and resources and building on our existing presence, particularly
in the North Sea. Our financial performance continues to improve and
the outlook for strong growth in cash flows is robust, even at much
lower oil prices than today. We continue to have good access to capital,
from both the bank and bond markets, to fund future growth.
A letter from Mike Welton
Delivering our Vision… Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements /  07
In exploration, we are consistently adding reserves and resources on an
annual basis at an average after-tax cost of around US$5 per barrel (bbl).
We are more than replacing our production. In the Natuna Sea in South
East Asia and in the Central North Sea in the UK we have leading
positions which, given our data and knowledge bases, we believe will
translate into further successes. We are constantly reviewing new licence
opportunities in existing areas and in analogous geological plays in new
countries. These will be the source of future growth and potential
upside for our investors.
Governance and the Board
As the group expands, the need for good corporate governance
processes and keen attention to risk management becomes ever more
critical. Consistent with external recommendations, the Board and its
committees pay close attention not just to the future strategy of the
company but also to Board composition and the risk identification and
mitigation process, as well as performance and remuneration policies.
I am grateful for the excellent advice and support received from my
fellow directors during the year on all these matters.
As in previous years, particular attention at Board level has been given
to health, safety and environmental management. The company’s
management systems have been successfully re-certified to OHSAS
18001 and ISO 14001 standards and key performance indicators for
recordable injury frequency and high potential incidents were improved
against the prior year. Nevertheless, we are constantly reminded of the
need for strong processes, continuous vigilance and determination to
learn lessons for the future.
Shareholder returns
Premier’s share price dropped by 26 per cent during 2011 in a poor year
for all equity markets. Following completion of the EnCore acquisition in
January 2012, we have seen a significant recovery. Over the three year
period to 31 December 2011, the shares have seen a growth of 80 per
cent, significantly outperforming the FTSE All Share Oil and Gas
Producers Index.
This outperformance is due to the hard work and skills of our employees,
partners and suppliers. I would like to pay tribute to all of them as we
look forward together to continued growth and success.
Mike Welton
Chairman
This outperformance
is due to the hard
work and skills of our
employees, partners
and suppliers.
I would like to pay tribute to all
of them as we look forward
together to continued growth
and success.”
“
