 Chief Executive’s Review
Premier Research
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
04
Overview
Premier Research has again put in another extremely strong performance
for the period. I am therefore delighted to report a further 12 months of
sustained organic growth complemented by the US acquisition of Scirex,
in July 2006, our largest to date, and highly strategic in further accessing
the important US market.
Of important note, and an illustration of how Premier Research has
evolved since becoming a public company, is the announcement that we
will be paying our first dividend.This factor in itself demonstrates that as a
business we are coming of age and as such are moving away from a
perceived emerging business model to a company with a sustainable and
growing financial model that can facilitate potential funding requirements
by a mixture of both equity and debt.
Operational Review
Our continued focus as a leading international pharmaceutical services
group has been on sustainable growth and improving our ability to 
win and deliver higher value, multi-national projects.This year has 
seen us further deliver on these goals with turnover increasing by 
over 154% and continued strong demand for our services from new 
and existing international customers, with an increased emphasis on
larger value contracts.
We now have over 170 customers, and have over the period signed 7
preferred provider agreements allowing us greater certainty of repeat
business with those customers. It is also important to note that we are
currently working with 15 of the world's top 20 pharma and biotech
companies and with these contracts there is now a greater emphasis on
winning the more lucrative Phase III work.
Importantly, and to mitigate potential risk, we have ensured that there is
no customer or project concentration by having a well spread business
with over 240 current projects across more than 170 customers, giving
protection against individual project delays.
In 2006 the Group saw strong organic growth from the core business and
the benefits from the Scirex integration process have exceeded
management's expectations.
Scirex
Scirex was acquired in July 2006. It was the seventh acquisition for the
Group and our largest to date. It is a full service CRO that specialises in
providing outsourced clinical services to the global biotechnology and
pharmaceutical industries.The company is headquartered in Philadelphia,
USA, and has ten offices located across the US, as well as London (UK) 
and Krakow (Poland). Scirex offers expertise, experience and technology
necessary to develop drugs from Phase I to Phase IV and is working in 
the same therapeutic areas as Premier Research, particularly in central
nervous system disorders. Importantly, Scirex has provided a strategic
footprint for Premier Research to access doctors and patients within 
the important US market.
Post Acquisition Integration
The integration of Scirex went extremely well being completed within
one month of acquisition and below budget, by at least £100,000.This
demonstrated management's prudent and skilled approach to acquisition
integration.That the integration of the largest acquisition to date in one
key territory can be completed quickly and efficiently serves as a huge
endorsement to the ability of the Board and key management to
integrate acquisitions into the core business.We have maintained our
track record of not losing any customers from an acquired company 
or indeed from our core business. Importantly, since the completion 
of the acquisition, we have been awarded repeat business from a 
number of legacy customers and we have continued to be successful in
attracting new customers to the enlarged Group, with the winning of
several new significant global contracts on both sides of the Atlantic 
and a substantial number of Phase III projects in the sales pipeline.The
Group strongly believes that the Scirex acquisition and the skill base 
that it has brought to the Group is a significant contributing factor to
recent increases in sales opportunities.
The successful completion and integration of this acquisition proved
earnings enhancing to the Group in the year. It will contribute greatly to
our continued growth as it strengthens our business model and will
enhance our service offering amongst our customer base.
Our continued focus as a leading
international pharmaceutical
services group has been on
sustainable growth and improving
our ability to win and deliver high
value, multi-national projects
Dr Simon Yaxley
89031 Premier Research Front end.qxd  11/5/07  09:49  Page 4 Premier Research
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
05
Service Offering & Sales
Our continued focus remains on three of the highest growth areas in
drug development (oncology, central nervous system and anti-infectives)
together with our underlying expertise in paediatrics, a specialised area
with strong regulatory drivers. However, as Premier Research continues 
its expansion as a leading international pharmaceutical services player,
new areas of development within cardiovascular and respiratory 
may be targeted.
Our expertise across consultancy, clinical study delivery, data management
and final medical reporting, continues to provide us with an extremely
robust business model and an infrastructure which boasts over 750
employees in 31 countries.This, together with a powerful reputation
amongst our peer group, continues to provide the kudos to compete for
higher value contracts; a trend which we are focused on maintaining, and
indeed increasing, over time.
Our diverse and highly credible customer base now comprises over 170
customers.With no contract accounting for more than 15% of revenues in
any one year, this continues to provide us with recurring business,
endorsing the excellent service delivery we provide.
Outsourcing Market
The outsourcing market continues to be buoyant and the requirement for
outsourced clinical research services continues to grow with the
improved quality, reliability, safety, efficiency and controls associated with
outsourcing trials. All the indicators point to this continuing for the longer
term. Importantly, Premier Research's positioning within this growing
market will allow the Company to exploit the significant opportunities
which arise.
Current Trading
I am delighted to report that we have had a very strong start to the new
financial year.The continued growth of our sales pipeline with more than
£131m outstanding proposals with customers provide us with further
encouragement of sustaining this aggressive growth strategy. Of
particular note is that we are now seeing the highest proportion to
date of the Phase III contract work and in particular, within the last two
months, Phase III paediatric contract work.
Summary & Outlook
These exceptional results for the year are a true reflection of the quality
and motivation of Premier Research's operational and sales teams across
both the US and International territories combined with the continued
focus on winning new business and driving organic growth.
It is also important to note that our business model of focusing on three
of the highest growth areas in drug development continues to provide us
with a unique proposition to customers and this is truly visible in the
significant contract wins we have achieved whilst competing with larger
generic CRO players.
With current trading buoyant we move into the new financial year with
confidence. Our focus remains on both stimulating and accelerating
organic growth and seeking out earnings enhancing synergistic
acquisitions. A key focus will also be on continuing to bring further scale
to the business by moving larger and more lucrative contracts through
our sales pipeline.
In closing, I would again like to reiterate my thanks to all our staff for their
commitment, to our new employees who joined us from Scirex and to
our shareholders for their continued support.
Dr Simon Yaxley
Chief Executive Officer
Phase 1   7% Phase 4   7%
Phase 3   39%
Other   11%
Phase 2   36%
Our expertise across
consultancy, clinical study
delivery, data management and
final medical reporting continues
to provide us with an extremely
robust business model.
Sales by Phase
89031 Premier Research Front end.qxd  11/5/07  09:49  Page 5
