 PTSG Annual Report and Accounts 2014
04
Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
“ As Chairman  
of PTSG, I am 
extremely proud  
of our people and 
their achievements.”
John Foley 
Chairman
Overview of Results
PTSG’s results for the year ended  
31 December 2014 showed very strong 
growth and I am pleased to report our 
highest levels of turnover, gross profit  
and underlying profit before taxation  
since the Group’s formation in 2007.
Turnover increased by 30% to £18.0 
million (2013: £13.9 million). Gross profit 
increased by 23% to £10.3 million (2013: 
£8.4 million) and underlying profit before 
tax also increased by 22% to £3.7 million 
(2013: £3.0 million). Adjusted earnings  
per share increased by 39% to 3.77p 
(2013: 2.71p). Net debt at 31 December 
2014 was £5.0 million which was an 
increase of £0.4 million from the previous 
year end and which reflects the increased 
levels of working capital necessary to fund 
the larger scale of the Group together with 
£0.9 million of capital payments to acquire 
businesses, plant and equipment, net of 
asset disposals.
Profit before taxation after adjusting  
items was £1.2 million. Adjusting items  
are considered to be either one off or 
non-trading items in nature and include 
deferred consideration payable to previous 
business owners who remain as PTSG 
employees, head office rebuild costs and 
IPO costs.
2014 was an important year for PTSG for 
two reasons. First, we took an important 
step in establishing a high level cleaning 
division following the acquisition of the 
trade and certain assets of Acescott 
Management Services Limited – a leading 
high level cleaning, rope access and 
working at height specialist based in 
London. Second, we undertook the 
majority of work necessary to take PTSG 
public and we were formally admitted to 
AIM on 11 February 2015 as a result of a 
successful IPO process.
As admission occurred after the financial 
year end, no further dividends are 
proposed in respect of the year ended  
31 December 2014.
Operational Highlights
Although “buy and build” is an important 
part of our growth story – we have 
successfully executed 12 acquisitions 
since 2007 – it is not at the expense of 
organic growth. We achieved organic 
turnover growth of 16% in 2014 if the 
turnover of 2014 acquisitions is excluded. 
We secured both numerous new single 
service contracts with customers and a 
further number of multi service contracts 
with large FM customers. There are a 
number of aspects to our service delivery 
which we believe are “best in class” 
including our Contract Renewals, Key 
Accounts and Health and Safety support 
functions and these functions continue  
to be strengthened to assist with the 
increased scale of operations. Our 
retention rate on maintenance contract 
renewals is approximately 85%. Our gross 
margins remain consistently high and year 
on year comparisons are mainly impacted 
by the level of installation work to testing  PTSG Annual Report and Accounts 2014
05
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
and repair work. Our business model is 
centred around a 20% return on turnover 
at the adjusted EBIT level and this target 
was once again achieved in 2014.
Strategy
PTSG has a very clear strategy and a tried 
and tested business model which can 
successfully convert that strategy into 
excellent financial performance. PTSG is  
a niche specialist services provider which 
seeks to be a market leader in every area 
in which it operates. Our Access & Safety 
and Electrical Services divisions already 
possess sufficient scale to be considered 
as leading businesses in their respective 
areas of operation. Our niche focus is a 
differentiator and the services offered to 
customers in the FM marketplace have 
high barriers to entry and regulatory 
drivers which need an established 
business model to successfully handle  
a high volume of low value transactions.
The Board
The Board has been strengthened in 
recent months to enable us to continue 
our path of profitable growth as a publicly 
quoted company. Roger Teasdale and 
Mark Watford have joined us as Group 
Managing Director and Group Finance 
Director respectively to strengthen our 
executive management team. Roger 
McDowell and Alan Howarth joined the 
Board as non-executive Directors in 
February 2015 when PTSG was admitted 
to AIM and have a wide range of public 
company experience to draw upon in  
their roles with PTSG. Paul Teasdale  
and I remain as Group Chief Executive  
and Chairman respectively. The Board 
recognises the value and importance of 
high standards of corporate governance 
and looks forward to working together to 
direct and oversee the next stage in 
PTSG’s development.
Our People
As a founding shareholder I can remember 
when our first employee joined in 2007. 
We now have 230 employees and we are 
growing with almost every passing month. 
Since formation we have all been a part  
of a successful story; we have won 
industry awards for our service delivery 
and grown in scale because of the 
partnership between the Board, our senior 
management and our employees. This 
partnership guides our thoughts and 
actions for the benefit of everyone involved 
in PTSG. As Chairman of PTSG, I am 
extremely proud of our people and their 
achievements and thank them for their 
continuing efforts.
Outlook
The first three months trading of 2015 
have been encouraging and in line with  
the Board’s expectations. We have  
a significant pipeline of acquisition 
opportunities which have been internally 
identified and we expect to conclude our 
first acquisition as a public company in  
the second quarter of 2015. We face the 
future with confidence.
John Foley
Chairman
27 April 2015
