 Chairman’s Statement 
Premier Research
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
02
As Acting Chairman I am pleased to report that our results this year are
once again excellent—with strong growth ahead of the market. We
undertook one major acquisition during the year—of Scirex LLC in July
2006—which is reported more fully elsewhere but its beneficial effect
on our business has been enormous. Notwithstanding, it is very
satisfying to report that the existing business also grew organically 
by 20.7% almost double the generally accepted rate of growth 
for the market.
Our financial performance, including the contribution made by the
Scirex acquisition completed in July 2006, was strong with revenues
having grown during the period by 154% to £41.8m from the previous
year of £16.5m. EBITDA (including a £0.2 million non-cash charge for
share based payments) up by 108% to £9.8m (2006: £4.7m) and profit
before tax of £4.3m, up from £2.1m in 2006, despite suffering from
adverse currency exchange effects as over 95% of the revenue is in
either US dollars or Euros.
Strong order intake was maintained with a book-to-bill ratio at the 
year end of greater than one, indicating the consistent growth of the
order book.This indicator of future sales visibility is increasingly
important and what gives even greater comfort to the Board is 
current year trading with revenues on a like-for-like basis significantly 
in excess of the prior period.
The Group reported an effective tax rate of 21% as the result of a
Corporation Tax deduction under the provisions of Schedule 23 of the
Finance Act 2003.This tax deduction arose from the exercise of share
options and the benefit whilst carrying over into next year, is not
expected to be repeated.
For the last two years we have decided against declaring any dividends,
believing that shareholder interests would be best served by having the
cash reinvested into the business and rewarding shareholders with
capital growth. Our current share price bears testament to this
approach. However, as the business matures on to a different level and
as highlighted at the half year the Board feel it is now time to
commence a programme of dividend payments and we are therefore
recommending the payment of a maiden dividend of 0.5p per ordinary
share. It is the Board’s intention to pay a similar dividend at the interim
stage for the current year and thereafter to adopt a progressive
dividend policy.
As highlighted in our trading statement earlier this year, we have
established an operating board.The rationale for this was that going
forward, the focus for the Group would be twofold: accelerating organic
growth and identifying and executing synergistic acquisitions.This
board is now in place and has already had a positive effect on day-to-
day management of the business, allowing the main Board to focus on
the longer term strategic development of the Group, including the
pursuit of earnings enhancing acquisitions.
Further strengthening this strategy, I am pleased to welcome two new
Board members, Dr Troy McCall as Chief Operating Officer and Peter
Kyle as CFO.Troy was appointed to this role on the operating board and
now steps up to the main Board in the same role. Peter, previously
financial controller, takes over from Bernard Gallagher, the current 
CFO. Bernard has increasingly taken on more responsibility in the
strategic development of Premier Research and will become Chief
Development Officer.
Our results this year are 
once again excellent – 
with strong organic growth
ahead of the market
Steve Harris
89031 Premier Research Front end.qxd  11/5/07  09:49  Page 2 Premier Research
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
03
Guy Patrick, Chief Medical Officer and a founder of the Company, has
become less involved in executive duties as the Company has grown.
He has now resigned as a director in order to pursue other interests but
he will continue to provide his services to the Company on a
consultancy basis, as necessary, to ensure the smooth transition of
responsibilities and customer relationships.
With the appointment of these additional Board members and
recognising the increasing number of key senior executives within the
Group, the Board intends to introduce a new long term incentive plan
for such employees.The plan will be discussed with major shareholders
before any proposals are put forward.
In addition to the executive appointments discussed above, the
Company is actively pursuing the appointment of a new non-executive
Chairman and an additional non-executive director, who will chair the
Audit Committee, to balance the composition of the Board.
The outlook for 2007 for the business remains highly encouraging. With
the strong order intake which we experienced toward the end of 2006
continuing into the current year, the Board is confident that Premier
Research is in excellent shape and that it operates in an exciting and
growing market. We have a strong team in place, strengthened by the
management changes announced over the last few months, and are
now ideally positioned to take full advantage of growth opportunities
during the next year and beyond.
That this has been a very successful year for the Group cannot be in
doubt. However, we must always remember that good financial results
do not happen by themselves: they are the culmination of a
tremendous amount of hard work and dedication by all our employees.
On behalf of the Board and the shareholders, I would like to thank them
all for their significant contribution.
Last year, the Group anticipated continued growth based on its buy-
and-build strategy to which it had been committed from the start. I can
but echo those sentiments and look forward to a continuation of the
strategy which has served your Group so well in the past.
Steve Harris
Acting Chairman
Premier Research Group plc is a major
international Contract Research Organisation
(CRO) with offices covering the whole of
Europe and the United States.
Premier Research is committed to delivering excellent service to its customers using the
highest scientific standards, intimate local knowledge and state-of-the-art technology. All
Premier Research employees are committed first and foremost to fulfilling each
customer’s requirements in a timely, accurate and cost-effective manner.
89031 Premier Research Front end.qxd  11/5/07  09:49  Page 3
