 PTSG Annual Report and Accounts 2014
10
Strategic Report
Chief Executive’s 
Review
“ PTSG enjoyed another fantastic year 
in 2014 as we continued our rapid 
growth since foundation in 2007. 
 
It was a year structured with  
high-profile appointments,  
headline-grabbing contract  
wins and prestigious accolades.”
Paul Teasdale 
Chief Executive Officer
Overview
In 2014, PTSG comprised four offerings: 
Access and Safety, Electrical Services, 
High Level Cleaning and Specialist Training. 
We expanded into high level cleaning and 
maintenance with the acquisition of the 
trade and assets of Acescott Management 
Services Limited (“Acescott”) in July 2014, 
Acescott contributed £0.41m to adjusted 
operating profits in 2014. 
Topline performance has remained strong 
with turnover increasing to £18.0m (2013: 
£13.9m), and operating profits before 
adjusting items increasing by 27% to £4.0m 
(2013: £3.2m), driven by robust adjusted 
EBIT margins which remained consistently 
high at 22.3%, reflecting the specialist and 
skilled nature of our activities, our strong 
focus on cost control and operating model, 
while remaining competitive on pricing. 
Statutory profit before tax after adjusting 
items was £1.2m.
We have also delivered strong organic 
growth across the Group – most notably 
in electrical services where revenue grew 
by 58% and adjusted operating profits 
by 56%. Our niche specialist services 
are sold on a recurring basis under 
contract to a retained customer base. 
We have continued our high client 
retention figure of over 85% on annual 
orders, driven by the quality of service 
and our competitive pricing.
Market environment
Demand for our services is underpinned  
by regulatory requirements around the 
installation, maintenance and testing of 
access and safety systems, lightning 
protection and electrical equipment, as well 
as insurance compliance requirements, 
and general repair and maintenance.
Many of our customers are streamlining 
their businesses through supplier 
rationalisation, moving to single source 
supply, which is benefiting the Group  
and is expected to continue in the future.  11
PTSG Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review
Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
Acquired in November 2013 and brought  
into line with the PTSG operating model,  
Test Strike is already delivering beyond  
initial forecasts and expectations. 
For the year ended 31 August 2013, Test 
Strike achieved turnover of £823k and 
generated an operating profit of £123k. 
Implementing PTSG’s operating policies  
and procedures, together with back office 
support, has enabled Test Strike to increase 
Acquisition Case Study 2 – Test Strike
Revenue
£1.3m
+58%
Operating profits*
£0.6m
+376%
its turnover in 2014 to £1.3m generating an 
operating profit* of £586k.
*Pre-management charge
+ PTSG Annual Report and Accounts 2014
12
Strategic Report
Strategy
We aim to build our market share in  
each of our niche services, to markets 
characterised by high regulation, long-term 
growth drivers, and non-discretionary 
spend for customers.
As the UK’s market leader in access and 
safety services and one of the industry’s 
leading lightning protection businesses,  
we are well positioned to capitalise on our 
recent entry into the high level cleaning 
market, with organic growth and cross 
selling opportunities.
Our major customers include the US Air 
Force, Marks & Spencer plc, Royal Bank  
of Scotland plc, Unite, Sheffield Hallam 
University, Network Rail, Harrods, Motorola, 
Airbus, Morgan Sindall, Willmott Dixon, 
Carillion, Barclays, Land Securities, Land 
Rover and Manchester United plc.
Our strategy is to generate significant 
shareholder value through organic growth, 
including cross-selling, and complementary 
acquisitions. Just 5% of customers 
currently receive multiple lines of service, 
with considerable scope to improve  
this and increase profitability. 
While we are already a market leader in  
a number of our operations, we still have  
a less than 10% share in our principal 
markets and there is significant scope  
for growth. 
Acquisitions 
PTSG has a track record of successfully 
integrating acquisitions in complementary 
areas of activity and driving improved 
operational and financial performance.
We are committed to pursuing acquisition 
opportunities in existing and adjacent 
markets, with a view to cross-selling 
services and leveraging our client base.  
We are attracted to opportunities in our 
core markets, where owner-managers  
are interested in playing a role in the 
enlarged business. 
PTSG’s first acquisition, National Cradle 
Maintenance Limited, was in 2007, and  
was funded by £0.9 million of equity from  
the founders. Since then we have made  
11 subsequent acquisitions, at a total 
consideration of £7.2 million, and our  
most recent acquisition Acescott, was 
completed in July 2014. 
Our in-house acquisitions team considers  
a strong pipeline of opportunities, including 
bolt-ons to existing divisions and 
businesses with activities in new and 
adjacent sectors. The Board will consider 
acquisitions that allow the Group to enter 
attractive new markets where we can 
leverage our operational and managerial 
framework; expand existing operations 
geographically to increase our penetration 
of the UK market; and grow operations  
in an existing market and geography, 
leveraging economies of scale to improve 
margins. 
We have a pipeline of acquisition 
opportunities which will carry us through 
2015, 2016 and 2017. Our first acquisition  
is planned for the second quarter of 2015.
We already carry out training, but only on  
a limited scale, and we are confident that  
a training division will complement the 
Group’s other activities. Over 2015 and 
2016 we intend to significantly expand the 
Group’s specialist training activities by 
acquisition. For instance, certification is 
already an important part of the Access 
and Safety and Electrical Services 
divisions, and the Group also provides  
its own engineers with regular training to 
maintain their compliance with any changes 
to the inspection and testing regimes.
Divisional results 
We have achieved strong levels of organic 
growth by improving operational processes 
and efficiencies, reducing costs, being 
more competitive and establishing new 
partnerships and relationships. 
Over 2014, we spent £0.1m on software 
development to increase productivity, 
efficiency and reduce costs. We have also 
signed new supply chain and framework 
agreements, including Mitie and Interserve, 
and renewed our three year contract 
with M&S. 
Access and Safety is the Group’s largest 
and longest established division, and 
provides maintenance, inspection and 
testing solutions for the highly-regulated 
area of “working at height”, as well as the 
design and installation of permanently 
installed façade access and fall arrest 
equipment. Contracts often include both 
the initial installation of access solutions 
and ongoing maintenance. The majority of 
clients enter into a contract for a period of 
three to five years.
The division generated sales of £9.6m and 
adjusted EBIT of £1.7m for the year ended 
31 December 2014. 
Electrical Services is currently the Group’s 
second largest division, with sales of £6.6m 
and adjusted EBIT of £1.9m in the year 
ended 31 December 2014. The division is 
an established provider of lightning and 
surge protection systems, PAT testing  
and fixed wire testing services. It is involved 
in both installation services and the 
maintenance, testing and repair of systems. 
Lightning protection is the largest business 
within PTSG Electrical Services.
Our newest division is PTSG High Level 
Cleaning. Our acquisition of Acescott, an 
established business with expertise in the 
design and application of cleaning systems 
for large and complex buildings in July 2014, 
contributed £0.4m to adjusted operating 
profits and £1.8m of revenue to the Group 
for the year ended 31 December 2014.
High Level Cleaning includes a wide  
range of specialist cleaning services, from 
commercial window cleaning to pressure 
washing of cladding, façades, guttering 
and rooftops and graffiti and chewing gum 
removal. Customers’ buildings include 
office blocks, shopping centres, factories 
and hotels. PTSG has a clear advantage  
in tailoring projects that require complex 
access systems to clean and maintain 
buildings externally with minimal 
disturbance to the occupiers. 
Chief Executive’s 
Review continued PTSG Annual Report and Accounts 2014
13
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance 
Financial Statements
PTSG receives great feedback every day of the week, which is a great 
testament to the work that the team delivers day in, day out. Here are 
just a few of our customers’ comments about the company’s work.
New staff
We have a highly experienced management 
team with extensive industry experience 
that is focused on creating shareholder 
value through organic and acquisitive 
growth. Over 2014 we welcomed two  
new executive members to strengthen  
our Board, who each bring a wealth of 
experience and knowledge, and will help  
to drive PTSG forward and achieve our 
strategic goals. Mark Watford joined the 
Group as Finance Director in September 
2014 and is a Chartered Accountant. 
Previously, Mark was a vice president of 
finance at Smith & Nephew Plc. Roger 
Teasdale joined the Group as Managing 
Director on 17 November 2014, and was 
previously president of the advanced 
wound management division (divisional 
revenue of $1.4 billion, with 4,000 
employees) of Smith & Nephew Plc. 
Since the end of the year we have also 
welcomed Alan Howarth and Roger 
McDowell as Non-executive Directors. Alan 
was appointed as a director of Chamberlin 
plc in January 2007 and was previously a 
partner in Ernst & Young. He is chairman of 
Cerillion Technologies Limited and Essentia 
Limited and has further non-executive 
interests in a range of private companies.
Roger was managing director of Oliver 
Ashworth for 18 years and led its main 
market listing and subsequent sale  
to Saint-Gobain S.A. He is currently the 
chairman or a non-executive director of 
eight quoted companies. 
Outlook for 2015
We have had a good start to 2015  
and continue to trade in line with our 
expectations. Our first acquisition is 
planned for the second quarter of 2015, 
with a good pipeline of future opportunities.
On 11 February 2015 we listed on AIM, 
raising £5m for PTSG, and were delighted to 
become the first Yorkshire-based business 
to IPO in 2015. We are acutely aware of the 
need to continually reinvest in the Group in 
order to promote future growth, both 
organically and through acquisition.
Customer Quotes
Jenni Harcombe, PPM and 
Compliance Support Manager for 
FM at Marks and Spencer, said: 
“PTSG is by far our best FM supplier. 
Their unique delivery model ensures 
that they work consistently and deliver 
to a fantastic standard. I really can’t 
speak highly enough of the work that 
PTSG does for us.”
Gary Haines from UNITE, said: 
“PTSG gets what true partnership is 
actually all about and that effective 
communication is fundamental to 
maintain transparency and trust. This is 
helping from a continuous improvement 
perspective where compliance and the 
right corrective actions are making a 
real difference to both businesses. 
“PTSG has developed an understanding 
of UNITE’s building characteristics so 
that the team can deliver a bespoke, 
on-site management service. Acting  
as facilities officers, porters, informal 
security and technician, the company’s 
building managers ensure that UNITE 
receives a consistent, high quality 
service.”
Simon Pateman, Stations Manager 
at Tubelines, said: “PTSG has 
developed processes for ensuring  
that innovation is driven through their 
relationship at all levels. 
“We are benefiting through pooling 
knowledge and resources to identify 
value creation and innovation 
opportunities. Both organisations have 
worked hard to implement changes  
that add value to the relationship.
“We have created an effective 
operational environment to harness the 
value of partnership working to deliver 
individual and collective business goals.
“Together, through strong and effective 
collaborative working, we are keeping 
London on the move.”
www.ptsg.co.uk 
“ Pipeline of acquisition 
opportunities for 2015, 
2016 and 2017.”
Paul Teasdale 
Chief Executive Officer
