 Company Overview 
Pressure Technologies plc
Annual Report 2011
08
Pressure Technologies plc
Annual Report 2011
09
Company Overview  01-09
Business Review  10-17
Governance  18-23
Financial Statements  24-56
The potential for CNG derived from biogas, either as a vehicle fuel or 
as a supplementary source of natural gas (known as BtG - biomethane 
to grid), affords the Group the prospect of participation in a major 
alternative energy market. In the UK, natural gas is a major energy 
import, often sourced from politically unstable parts of the world.  
During the year, we have strengthened our position in this market by 
extending our licence from Greenlane® to market and manufacture 
biogas upgrade process plants. Greenlane® is recognised as the 
international market leader in biogas upgrade technology with 
equipment installed and operating worldwide.
The Board continues to believe that investment in new products and 
processes at the high end of technology is fundamental to the future 
growth of the business. To this end, we continue to prioritise and fund 
R&D programmes that will, we believe, provide opportunities for growth 
using our unique engineering capabilities. 
People
The Group Board continues to play a full role in the development of 
the Group. The brief of the Audit Committee has been extended and 
it has been renamed the Audit and Risk Committee, recognising the 
importance of the additional duties placed on the Group by legislation 
such as the Bribery Act. I feel it is worth noting that the never ending 
flow of regulation by Government is increasing the burden of corporate 
governance, particularly on smaller business and, at times, can be a 
significant distraction to the primary task of running the business.
The Group recognises the importance of the skills and knowledge base 
of its employees, many in specialised disciplines. We have continued 
to invest in our employees, recruiting apprentices and investing in 
structured training programmes, up to and including post graduate 
training, to ensure that these skills and knowledge are maintained and 
transferred to the next generation. 
Once again it is appropriate to acknowledge the dedication of our 
operational Directors and the skill, commitment and flexibility of all our 
employees, perhaps best exemplified by the high level of attendance at 
work throughout the periods of most severe weather last winter.
Prospects
The Group enters the new financial year with order books across its 
Cylinder and Engineered Products businesses filling. Overall, our order 
book has increased by 50% in the past six months and now stretches 
well into 2012. We have not seen this level of activity in these markets 
since 2008/09. Activity in the global oil and gas industry has returned 
and shows no sign of waning and we expect this momentum to stretch 
into 2013 for long lead time products, notably our ultra-large cylinders 
for the deep water drilling market.
Further growth is anticipated in our Engineered Products division, 
particularly in the North American market where we have secured a 
significant foothold. These businesses have been strengthened through 
the reorganisation we implemented in 2011 and we are now better 
positioned to exploit the opportunities available to us.
The coming year will be a critical for the Group’s alternative energy 
business, Chesterfield BioGas; a number of major quotations are 
expected to be converted into firm contracts for delivery towards the 
latter end of 2012 and into 2013.
The Group is now well along the path of transforming itself, both 
organically and through strategic acquisition, into being a better 
balanced business with long term growth prospects in niche market 
sectors. We are exploring further acquisition opportunities and anticipate 
the transformation of the Group to stretch across the next 12-18 
months with the benefits starting to show in the current financial year. 
I would like to thank all the Group’s shareholders for their continued 
support throughout the difficult and testing period from which, I believe, 
we are now emerging. 
Our confidence in the Group’s prospects and financial position is 
reflected in the Board’s dividend policy and we remain confident that 
the Group has the ability to adapt to changes in market conditions and 
profitably exploit the opportunities which arise. 
Richard L. Shacklady
Chairman
6 December 2011
The ability to carry out in-situ statutory inspection of 
large fixed cylinder installations gives significant cost 
and time savings to CSC’s customers.
Value Added Service Business Review
Pressure Technologies plc
Annual Report 2011
10
Pressure Technologies plc
Annual Report 2011
11
Company Overview  01-09
Business Review  10-17
Governance  18-23
Financial Statements  24-56
The year for the Group was one of contrasts; the correct trends in 
markets were identified in our Cylinder and Alternative Energy divisions 
but the timing of growth in these markets was much later than we led 
to be expected. By contrast, the acquisitions we made in our Engineered 
Products division performed well against our original expectations. 
The financial results, in terms of sales and profits, were deeply 
disappointing as a lack of market visibility for large contracts and over 
optimism led to poor forecasting and a succession of profit downgrades. 
On a positive note, the balance sheet remains robust with solid cash 
reserves to support the dividend and our future plans. 
The key points for the year are:
Cylinders
 
 2011 2010
 £m £m
Sales 11.0 19.1
Operating Profits 1.4 4.8
Assets 10.7 11.7
Chesterfield Special Cylinders (“CSC”) continued to be affected  
by the downturn in its principal market in deepwater oil and gas,  
where we supply air pressure vessels (“APVs”) for rigs and drillships.  
As anticipated, this market has started to recover as global requirements 
for new sources of hydrocarbons increases. Market confidence, which 
was destroyed by the BP Macondo incident in the Gulf of Mexico, 
has returned and we have seen a recent upturn in both forecasted 
projects and orders received. This improvement came too late to have 
a positive impact on 2011 but, for 2012, we already have orders for 
APVs for six drillships, compared to three supplied in the whole of 2011 
financial year. The major driver is, as expected, the Brazilian market. 
Market dynamics have changed and pricing has increasingly become a 
critical issue for customers. This has had an impact on margins in this 
sector. Having gathered valuable customer feedback, the Board is of 
the opinion that CSC has maintained its technical lead in engineering 
capability, particularly in system design and product cleaning and 
CSC has seen a return of some of the work previously lost to low cost 
competitors for the more difficult to manufacture APVs.
The naval defence market experienced strong sales in 2011 but these 
will be lower in 2012 due to phasing of projects. Major projects are 
already in the order book for the 2013 financial year and there is 
a strong pipeline of potential projects. CSC has continued to make 
headway developing new markets and a major contract to supply 
cylinders for submarines for Brazil was awarded to CSC by DCN for 
supply in 2012 and 2013. A five year contract to manage the Royal 
Navy’s strategic reserve of cylinders has also been awarded to CSC. 
There was no upturn in the external market for new high pressure 
trailers but a compressed natural gas (“CNG”) trailer was built for 
Chesterfield BioGas and a hydrogen trailer to support the trailer 
refurbishment business. We now have a full range of designs for 
trailers and a fully developed supply chain for manufacture. Trailer 
refurbishment continued to progress and was boosted by our ability  
to inspect cylinders in-situ (see below). We expect further progress  
in this market in 2012. Beyond 2012, the development of alternative 
fuels will lead to an increasing market for the bulk storage and 
transportation of CNG and Hydrogen. In 2011, CSC provided the bulk 
storage for two CNG filling station projects for Chesterfield BioGas.
The small cylinder market remains affected by cuts in military  
aerospace spending but work continues on the long-term project to 
develop the next generation of type IV composites for the aerospace 
and SCBA markets.
2011 was another tough year for the 
Group with the strong performance 
of the acquisitions in our Engineered 
Products division lessening the effects 
of slow market growth in CSC and 
CBG. We expect to see good growth 
in Engineered Products in 2012 and 
the return to growth in Cylinders 
accelerating into 2013. 
Chief Executive’s Statement
John Hayward, Chief Executive
The Group’s strong 
balance sheet and 
cash provide a 
sound platform 
from which to 
move forward. 
Pressure Technologies, through CSC has a worldwide 
reputation for expertise in cylinders for naval 
applications. Expansion of the customer base in recent 
years has turned what was a UK centric business into 
a major player in the world market. In 2011, cylinders 
were supplied to projects in the UK, France, Spain  
and Canada.
As our customers’ designs are now being exported, 
we are experiencing follow on orders for supply to 
countries such as Brazil and India.
Whilst increasing orders are a good thing, the phasing 
of deadlines is such that there are wide swings in sales 
revenue between years. To counteract this, we are 
focused on expanding our customer base to encompass 
all major western defence contractors.
Defence Business Review
Pressure Technologies plc
Annual Report 2011
12
Pressure Technologies plc
Annual Report 2011
13
Company Overview  01-09
Business Review  10-17
Governance  18-23
Financial Statements  24-56
CSC was successful in developing a British Standard for the in-situ 
testing of ultra-large cylinders. This led to work in the UK, Singapore 
and Kazakhstan in 2011 and further projects both home and overseas 
are already in the order book for 2012. This is an exciting development 
and has also led to additional new cylinder contracts including a large 
helium installation for 2012 worth over £1 million.
As announced last year, a lean manufacturing programme was started 
in 2011 and manufacturing headcount was reduced by 16% to 38 
operatives from 45 as part of a productivity improvement programme. 
No significant increase in headcount is planned as the business grows 
but we have employed a further three apprentices at the start of 2012 
as part of our business continuity plan. 
To support productivity and quality improvements CSC spent  
£0.5 million on capital projects in 2011. The start of the 2012 
financial year saw the commencement of an activity based review 
of staff functions and an immediate headcount reduction from 27 
to 25 was made. The business is high fixed cost because we carry a 
large engineering and technical overhead, which is an order winner. 
We therefore do not expect significant further cuts in staff numbers 
but neither do we foresee large increases as the order book recovers. 
Projects are underway to improve gross margins and cut administration 
costs during 2012. Capital investment will be centred around our 
forging process to reduce our reliance on subcontract cylinder forging.
There is a buzz around CSC’s markets which has not been evident for 
some time. We have strengthened our sales presence in Germany where 
we have traditionally been weak by employing the sales manager from 
one of our European competitors. Subject to current economic issues 
in Europe not getting out of control, we are confident that the second 
half of 2012 will deliver an improvement in the Cylinder business which 
will continue into 2013. This confidence is supported by the order book 
which, at the end of 2011, was over £12 million, compared to under 
£10 million one year earlier and there continues to be a strong pipeline 
of open quotations and tenders.
Engineered Products division
 2011 2010
 £m £m
Sales 11.2 2.0
Operating Profits (before acquisition costs) 1.1 —
Assets 10.0 3.4
The division was formed by the purchase of Al-Met in February 2010  
and Hydratron in October 2011 and the two businesses have  
performed well.
Al-Met’s products are used in high-pressure choke and flow control 
valves, designed to regulate flow volumes in extremely demanding 
applications in the subsea and surface oil and gas industries. Its ability  
to combine high alloy steels with tungsten carbide inserts and 
specialised coatings gives Al-Met its niche position with its customers, 
global wellhead and subsea equipment OEMs. Al-Met had record 
sales and profits in 2011 as a result of an upturn in its core markets. 
Investment of £0.3 million was made to extend the size range and 
complexity of products. 
Al-Met delivered record sales and profits in its  
first full year with the Group.
Al-Met
With growth returning to deepwater oil rig and 
drillship construction, CSC is now passed the trough  
in its principal market which affected the 2011 results. 
Serving a much wider part of the market, Engineered 
Products experienced solid growth in 2011.  
For both divisions, 2012 promises further progress  
as experienced by recent order intake.
Oil and Gas
The immediate priority is to strengthen 
the Engineered Products division.  
This will be centred on Hydratron and 
we are actively looking for businesses 
that extend Hydratron’s geographical 
presence or give vertical integration 
within the supply chain. The expansion 
of this division will further reduce the 
effects of the volatility of the Cylinder 
division on Group results. 
Hydratron designs, manufactures and sells a range of air operated 
high pressure hydraulic pumps, gas boosters, power packs, hydraulic 
control panels and test rigs. The business was established in 1981 
and is a leading supplier of quality high pressure equipment to the oil 
and gas industries worldwide. The business operates out of a modern 
manufacturing unit in Altrincham in the UK and a similarly modern but 
smaller facility in Houston, Texas. The UK part of Hydratron moved into 
its current facilities immediately after the acquisition and the first half 
year was impacted by the effects of this planned move. Second half 
performance was excellent and order books and prospects are  
also excellent.
Both businesses are in markets where on time, in full delivery is poor. 
Investment has been made in production systems at both Al-Met and 
Hydratron with the aim of reaching automotive industry standards  
on deliveries to take market share from competitors. These are markets 
where significant growth is forecast. For Hydratron, this growth is 
already apparent. Industry forecasts for Al-Met predict sales  
at current levels for 2012 but significant growth in 2013 and 2014.  
The commercial functions in both businesses have been increased to 
ensure that we are maximising sales opportunities and we look for 
significant progress in the division over the short to medium term. Business Review
Pressure Technologies plc
Annual Report 2011
14
Pressure Technologies plc
Annual Report 2011
15
Company Overview  01-09
Business Review  10-17
Governance  18-23
Financial Statements  24-56
Alternative Energy 
 2011 2010
 £m £m
Sales 0.9 0.7
Operating losses (0.5) (0.3)
Assets 1.7 1.3
This was a frustrating year for Chesterfield BioGas (“CBG”), our start-up 
alternative energy equipment business. As with CSC, delay in market 
growth was the over-riding issue. The principal target market for CBG 
is the supply of upgrading equipment to clean biogas produced from 
organic waste to produce biomethane suitable for injection into the 
natural gas grid (Biomethane to Grid, “BtG”) or use as a vehicle fuel. 
Of these uses, BtG is the key growth market for the business but 
government delays in announcing the Renewable Heat Incentive (“RHI”) 
held the market back. The RHI is necessary to enable BtG to compete 
with subsidised Combined Heat and Power (“CHP”) plants; the RHI was 
announced six months late, in March 2011 and has been the trigger  
for large utility companies to set up dedicated teams focused on BtG.  
As a result of this, CBG has seen a significant increase in the number  
of enquiries and tenders in the second half of 2011.
Conversion of enquiries and tenders into firm orders is slow as each 
project has a number of regulatory and planning hurdles to cross before 
contracts can be signed. CBG is well placed to win these projects, as we 
supplied the first successful upgrader on an award winning BtG project 
at Didcot in September 2010. Unlike our Competition, we are UK  
based and we are able to draw on the technical and developmental 
resources of Greenlane® Biogas, from whom we have a perpetual licence 
for the UK to sell and manufacture their world leading biogas  
upgrade technology. Timing of contracts is critical with an order  
to delivery period of eight to nine months for an upgrader; the period 
to 31 December 2011 will define sales in our 2012 financial year. 
As a result of this, the Board felt it prudent to halve our forecasts for 
upgrader sales for 2012 from four units to two units. 
Chesterfield BioGas’ close working relationship 
with Greenlane® Biogas allows the Group to offer 
low risk proven technology into the Biomethane 
to Grid market.
Partnership in Action
The next generation meets new technology; a graduate 
engineer commissioning the new automated brinell 
hardness testing machine at CSC. Hands on experience 
is a vital ingredient of the development of our 
apprentices and graduates and is an important part of 
career progression. The majority of senior managers in 
our manufacturing businesses started as apprentices.
Developing People
Whilst the downside risk on the timing of these two projects remains, 
we are confident in the medium and long term growth potential of  
this market.
The 2011 sales for CBG were all for vehicle refuelling with a trailer 
and a temporary filling station for Greenwich Council and two CNG 
filling stations taking methane from the gas mains for a major logistics 
company. Further progress is expected in this market in 2012 as the 
cost savings, substituting CNG for diesel, are reported to be high.
Acquisitions
The purchase of Al-Met and Hydratron has proved our capability 
in buying and integrating businesses into the Group. The strategy 
is straight forward, to acquire niche suppliers in pressure related 
technologies with manufacturing capabilities that overlap with the 
Group’s core skills in forging, machining and assembly and complement 
our expertise in designing and testing pressure systems.
The immediate priority is to strengthen the Engineered Products 
division. This will be centred on Hydratron and we are actively looking 
for businesses that extend Hydratron’s geographical presence or give 
vertical integration within the supply chain. The expansion of this 
division will further reduce the effects of the volatility of the Cylinder 
division on Group results. 
Summary and outlook
2011 was another tough year for the Group with the strong 
performance of the acquisitions in our Engineering Products division 
lessening the effects of slow market growth in CSC and CBG. We expect 
to see good growth in Engineered Products in 2012 and the return 
to growth in Cylinders accelerating into 2013. Major growth in our 
alternative energy business, CBG, will be delayed to 2013. The Group’s 
strong balance sheet and cash provide a sound platform from which to 
move forward. 
John Hayward
Chief Executive
6 December 2011
