 12 PRESSURE TECHNOLOGIES PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
2008
A GREAT YEAR
JANUARY 2008
IT WAS VERY PLEASING TO SEE CSC GAIN
ACCREDITATION TO ISO14001:2004 IN JANUARY 2008.
OUR PRODUCT IS VIRTUALLY 100% RECYCLABLE,
BUT IT IS ALSO GOOD TO KNOW THAT WE ALSO HAVE
A ROBUST ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
IN OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITY. PRESSURE TECHNOLOGIES PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 13
OUR STRONG ORDER BOOK AND
PIPELINE OF PROSPECTS SHOULD
ENSURE THAT WE DELIVER ANOTHER
GOOD RESULT IN 2009.
MARCH 2008
FIRST CYLINDERS SUPPLIED TO THE CANADIAN NAVY
FOR VICTORIA CLASS SUBMARINES.
JUNE 2008
FURTHER ORDERS RECEIVED FROM THE INDIAN
NATIONAL AERONAUTICS LABORATORY AS PART
OF OUR INVOLVEMENT IN THE INDIAN SPACE
PROGRAMME.
It was a year of exceptional organic growth,
which was recognised in our share price
performance relative to the AIM market.
We exited the year with a record order book
and a strong pipeline of quoted projects in all
markets. This seems somewhat at odds with the
world financial climate but may be explained, in
part, by the markets in which we operate.
In our main market, the Oil and Gas sector, there
remains a shortage of semi-submersible drilling
rigs and drill ships to develop deep water
hydrocarbon reserves. This has created strong
demand for our products which started in 2005
when oil prices were averaging around $50 per
barrel. If oil price is a driver of investment, then
we do not yet appear to be outside the price
range for investment to be profitable. Nor has
there been a reduction in the number of projects
for support services projects. A further indicator
of the sector’s strength is the availability of
materials, in particular, seamless pipe, which is
used for drill pipe as well as cylinders. This is
still rationed and a number of steel mills have
no available capacity in 2009.
There was an increase in activity in the export
defence market. We won naval build orders in
two new geographical areas, France and Canada.
The UK defence market remains subdued,
however we continued to supply significant
quantities of cylinders into military aircraft
programmes and are bidding for further
contracts on aircraft carriers and the Astute
submarine programme. Sales to the naval
market will be significantly higher in 2009 than
at any time since 2002.
All our other markets, in terms of orders and
levels of quotations, remain at or above historical
levels. I was particularly pleased with the growth
achieved in our trailer refurbishment business,
which should continue into 2009. We have our
largest forward order load for new trailers since
the management buyout in 2004.
Threats from market downturn do not appear
significant in the short term and I concur with
our Chairman on the medium and long term
prospects for the Group.
Looking at 2008, we had a terrific year with a
significant number of “highs” and a few missed
opportunities. The key points being:
WHAT WE DID WELL
Winning orders, growing sales and ending the
year with a record £23 million order book. Sales
at our operating company, Chesterfield Special
Cylinders, increased by 56% to £23.7 million
(2007: £15.1 million) with growth being achieved
in all our major markets.
The increase in sales was predominantly in
ultra-large cylinders and operations management
was highly effective, improving line efficiency.
As a consequence, gross profit increased by
91% after allowing for year on year net exchange
gains of £0.5 million.
Manufacturing support was improved through
the addition of a production planner and
implementation of finite capacity scheduling
software.
Building relationships with a range of business
partners and organisations, which will benefit
the growth of the business in the future.
Getting to a position where we could launch
Chesterfield BioGas (see below).
WHERE WE COULD HAVE DONE BETTER
We did not have sufficient resources to grow
the small cylinder business, due to the focus
on improving throughput on the ultra-large
production line and sales resources were
diverted onto the Biogas project (see below).
This will be addressed in 2009 by the introduction
of a separately managed business unit for small
cylinders, which will have its own dedicated
operations management and sales staff. 14 PRESSURE TECHNOLOGIES PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
CONTINUED
2008
A GREAT YEAR
JULY 2008
CHESTERFIELD BIOGAS FORMED IN PREPARATION
FOR THE LAUNCH OF THE NEW DIVISION IN
NOVEMBER 2008.
Stock levels were too high, as a result of holding
stock to cover poor delivery by suppliers and the
insistence, by some customers, that we source
certain fittings from their nominated suppliers.
We are working very closely with suppliers to
improve the reliability of deliveries and our
customers have now given us permission to
resource fittings from cost effective UK based
suppliers.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Sales and marketing
This was a very busy year for Philip Redfern and
his team at CSC. The plan to pursue growth in
the UK aggressively with the appointment of an
additional salesman focused solely on this
market was put on hold, as the new salesman
was moved to our new Biogas project. Significant
opportunities to grow the customer base in our
home market across the full range of
commercial products and services remain and a
modified version of this plan, incorporating the
new business unit structure, will be relaunched
as soon as we have recruited another salesman.
Our International Sales Development Manager
was very active in India, the Far East and China
during the year and we are actively quoting for
projects in niche sectors, where higher pressures,
product integrity and design capability are
essential.
As reported above, the export defence market
was very rewarding. It was particularly satisfying
to win the contract for high pressure cylinders on
the Barracuda submarine, after thirty years
endeavouring to gain entry to the French defence
sector . We will continue to target all naval build
programmes worldwide, as our design and
development capability in this sector is
unrivalled. Medium term prospects for the UK
look promising and we intend to lodge innovative
bids that highlight our supply chain expertise.
Operations
The challenges of the £8.6 million increase in
revenues should not be underestimated.
Operations management at CSC, led by John
Brown and Philip Catton, met the challenges
very successfully. Manufacturing employees
increased from 33 at the beginning of the year to
52 by year end. Training was not neglected and
we successfully ran induction courses and an
NVQ level 2 course. Given the success of our
apprenticeship scheme, we decided to employ
three new apprentices in September 2008.
An experienced production planner was
employed and investment in finite capacity
scheduling software was made to ensure on-
time delivery and manage production flow more
effectively. By the year end, overdue orders were
reduced to very low levels.
Capital investment was once again focused on
improving manufacturing efficiency and
increasing output. This included changing the
layout of a number of areas within ultra-large
manufacturing to improve product flow and the
installation of new end-heating furnaces for the
ultra-large forge, which halved gas usage and
improved product quality. Capital investment in
2009 will again be in excess of twice the
depreciation level.
Business units will be introduced in 2009 to
deliver improvements in both the ultra-large and
the small cylinder areas. In ultra-large, there will
be a concerted effort to eliminate waste and
further improve process flow and we are
currently working with the Manufacturing
Advisory Service on a project to achieve this.
In small cylinders, the focus will be on growing
the business.
Technical and development
Maintaining our technical and design capability
continued to pay dividends, as many of our
customers no longer have high pressure cylinder
design expertise in their organisations. The
additional designer we employed gives us greater
scope for both product and tooling development.
We are now in the process of recruiting a
graduate trainee into the design function.
The CSC Technical Director, Alan Harding, is
actively engaged in the development of new
ISO standards for ultra-large seamless steel
cylinders and ultra-large composite cylinders.
To assist with this and other areas of development,
we have engaged Dr Rohitan (Roy) Irani, former
Global Technical Authority, Cylinders, for
The BOC Group, as a consultant. Roy has a
lifetime’s experience in the design and applications
of both high and low pressure cylinders, including
cryogenic applications.
Research and development continued on a range
of products and services and we now have closer
links with the Sheffield Advanced Manufacturing
Research Centre and the two Sheffield universities.
CSC is also involved in the Special Metals
Forum's nuclear supply chain initiative. The key
areas for development in 2008 are:
The development of in-service field testing of
cylinders where we have recently procured key
equipment and recruited staff with the relevant
non-destructive testing expertise.
The development of ultra-large composite
cylinders.
The development of materials and coatings for
naval applications. PRESSURE TECHNOLOGIES PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 15
Corporate Social Responsibility
The management of health and safety issues
remains a management priority across the
business. Health and safety is an agenda item at
both the Pressure Technologies and CSC Boards.
It was disappointing to see reportable accidents
increase to three this year (2007: 2, target: 0);
none of these injuries were life-threatening.
Additional capital expenditure to improve
materials handling is planned for 2009 - the
major project will improve loading and unloading
of the ultra-large forge.
It was very pleasing to see CSC gain accreditation
to ISO14001:2004 in January 2008. Our product is
virtually 100% recyclable, but it is also good to
know that we also have a robust environmental
management system in our manufacturing
facility. Once again, we had no environmental
incidents in the year .
CSC gives donations of £250 per month to
charity. These donations are administered by an
employee committee. The aim of these donations
is two-fold; to help small, mainly local charities
and to raise employee awareness of, and
participation in, charitable giving.
Chesterfield BioGas
During the year, we were actively engaged in
preparing the Group’s entry to a new market.
On 10 November 2008, we announced the
establishment of a new operating division,
Chesterfield BioGas, following the signing of a
co-operation agreement with Greenlane
®
Biogas
Limited, the world leader in biogas upgrading
from raw biogas to vehicle quality fuel.
Under the agreement, which gives Pressure
Technologies exclusive rights to market Greenlane
®
equipment in the UK and Eire, Chesterfield
BioGas will provide turnkey solutions for the
cleaning, storage and dispensing of biomethane,
produced from waste water treatment and
anaerobic digestion of organic waste. We have a
long relationship with Flotech, the owners of
Greenlane
®
Biogas, as we have worked together
on a number of biogas projects in Sweden over
the last decade. This is a low-risk, tried and
tested biomethane fuel solution for the UK
market. Our joint skills and experience in this
field mean that we are able to deliver an effective
and successful system, when others can only
offer prototypes.
The UK market for biomethane has, to date,
remained untapped, largely due to a limited
availability of methane-fuelled vehicles and
subsidies for combined heat and power plants,
which have made the injection of methane into
the gas grid uneconomic. These two factors are
now being addressed. Mercedes and Volkswagen
are now producing right-hand drive methane
fuelled vehicles for the UK market and the
Energy Bill has been changed to pave the way
for financial incentives, designed to encourage
direct injection of biomethane into the gas grid.
Chesterfield BioGas will develop the UK market
for biogas cleaning equipment, which provides
clean biomethane suitable for use as an alternative
vehicle fuel or for direct injection into the natural
gas grid, across a wide range of commercial
sectors. These will include waste management
and water treatment companies, as well as large
commercial farmers and waste food processors.
A strong pipeline of projects is developing but,
due to the complexity of UK planning law and
lead times on equipment, it is anticipated that
orders secured by Chesterfield BioGas in 2009
will not contribute to Group revenues until the
year ending 30 September 2010.
Acquisitions
We have a target list of companies that match
our criteria of niche, high added value companies
in pressure containment and control markets
and we are actively in discussions with a number
of companies. We now have more time to spend
working on delivering acquisitions and intend to
employ additional resources to assist with this
process. Buying private companies is time
consuming and about relationships. Time spent
getting this right is essential to the success of
the programme and we will not buy in haste.
In summary, 2008 was another successful year
for the Group, delivering solid growth and
shareholder value. Our strong order book and
pipeline of prospects should ensure that we
deliver another good result in 2009.
JOHN HAYWARD
Chief Executive
8 December 2008
AUGUST 2008
RECORD ORDER INTAKE OF OVER £6 MILLION
IN ONE MONTH.
SEPTEMBER 2008
ORDER PLACED BY DCN FOR THE SUPPLY OF
CYLINDERS FOR THE FRENCH NAVY’S BARRACUDA
CLASS SUBMARINES.
