 04  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2013
in this my first year as chairman of  
the group, i am delighted to report  
a very strong set of results for 2013 and 
excellent prospects for 2014. Pressure 
Technologies is a great business, 
operating in some of the world’s most 
dynamic markets with demanding 
customers who value our ability to design 
and manufacture engineering solutions 
that meet their exacting standards.
There have been major changes to the 
Board during the year. Neil Macdonald 
and i joined as non-executive directors 
and the group’s former chairman, 
Richard Shacklady retired in March.  
i would like to extend the Board’s thanks 
to Richard for his outstanding contribution 
to the company since 2004, in particular 
his vision to float the company on AiM, 
which enabled us to fund the expansion 
and diversification of the group.
Results 
group sales for the full-year reached  
a record £34.4m (2012: £30.4m),  
which yielded a pre-tax profit of £2.9m  
(2012: £1.8m), giving a return on sales 
of 8.4% (2012: 5.8%). It is particularly 
pleasing to note that large incremental 
profits were generated in cylinders  
and Engineered Products divisions  
chAiRMAN’S STATEMENT
as we benefited from the effects  
of operational gearing.
The Group’s balance sheet continues 
to strengthen on the improved trading 
results, with a year-end net asset value  
of £17.5m (2012: £16.1m), £4.0m of net 
cash (2012: £2.7m) and no bank debt.  
As a result of the solid balance sheet  
and positive trading outlook, the Board  
is continuing its progressive dividend 
policy and is recommending a final 
dividend of 5.2p per share (2012: 5.0p), 
giving a total of 7.8p per share for the 
year; a 4% increase on last year.  
If approved, the final dividend will be  
paid to shareholders on 7 March 2014.
Trading and Market Conditions 
Overall conditions in our largest market, 
oil & gas, were favourable during the  
year with the global demand for oil 
increasing by 1.2%. Oil prices have 
traded between US$90-120 per barrel 
over the past three years, with yearly 
averages stabilising around US$110. 
This has provided a stable investment 
environment, whereby spending on oil 
and gas Exploration and Production  
(E&P) in 2013 has experienced an 
estimated increase of 6%, creating  
a positive impact on our two core  
sectors: deep water drilling rigs and 
subsea wellheads.
The quest to find and develop oil fields  
in deeper waters has put pressure on the 
ageing stock of drilling rigs, mostly built 
during the 1970-90s, which has spurred  
a flurry of orders for sixth-generation 
ultra-deep water rigs capable of operating 
in 3,000m water depths. This was strongly 
reflected in sales in our cylinders division 
and in our continued strong order book. 
However, many of these new-build  
orders have been placed with South 
Korean shipbuilders on a fixed-price, 
lump-sum basis, which has put pressure 
on pricing from suppliers of equipment, 
as shipbuilders try to maximize  
their profits. 
in response to this, our cylinders division 
has continued to develop higher added 
value services and expanded its portfolio 
of defence customers, winning major 
contracts for naval projects in germany.
%
Return on sales 
8.4%
(2012: 5.8%)
Pre-tax profit 
£2.9m
(2012: £1.8m)
£
£
group sales 
£34.4m
(2012: £30.4m) 05  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2013 Company Overview  01 – 05
Business Review  06 – 17
Governance  18 – 27
Financial Statements  28 – 59
“Pressure Technologies is a great business, operating 
in some of the world’s most dynamic markets with 
demanding customers who value our ability to design 
and manufacture engineering solutions that meet their 
exacting standards.”
We are aware that the four leading 
subsea tree manufacturers experienced 
unprecedented order intake during 
2013, which is further confirmation of 
the quest to find and develop oil in deep 
water. Encouragingly, such levels of order 
intake have been very positive for our 
Engineered Products division, which has 
enjoyed record sales and order intake 
and solid profit growth. This outstanding 
performance has continued into the first 
quarter of the current financial year.
Regulatory changes in the UK have 
resulted in our Alternative Energy division 
securing large orders for biogas upgrading 
equipment for delivery in the current 
financial year. This is the breakthrough we 
had anticipated and much credit is due 
to the Board and management for their 
vision and perseverance in this venture. 
Prospects 
Set against market forecasts of global 
GDP growth for 2014 in the order of 3% 
the global demand for oil is expected to 
increase by 1.3%, slightly higher than the 
previous year. This increased demand  
will further underpin the oil price and  
E&P investment, which is forecast to 
grow by 8% thereby creating a generally 
positive and encouraging picture for the 
coming year.
At a more granular level, we have begun 
the current financial year with an order 
book 37% higher than last year, so the 
prospects for a further improvement 
in performance are very promising. We 
also continue to develop new products 
and services across the group and are 
planning major capital expenditure over 
the next two years to expand capacity, 
improve productivity and quality and 
increase profitability. In parallel with 
growing our core businesses, the Board 
continues to evaluate earnings enhancing 
acquisitions which complement and add 
value to our existing portfolio.
i view the current year with much 
enthusiasm and look forward to 
presenting further evidence of the 
Group’s ability to capitalise on the 
opportunities which lie ahead.
Alan Wilson 
chairman 
3 December 2013
FOCUs
Biogas is generated as a product of the anaerobic digestion  
of organic waste. a typical composition could be 60% methane, 
39% carbon dioxide (“CO
2
”) and 1% other gases. Upgrading 
removes the majority of the CO
2
 and other gases to give  
upwards of 98% pure methane. 
The Greenlane® upgrading process uses water under pressure  
in a process akin to a giant soda syphon. The CO
2
 dissolves in  
the water and the less soluble methane is collected and dried  
for injection into the natural gas grid. 
WHAT IS  
BIOGAS UPGRAdING?
