 06  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2013
chiEF ExEcUTivE’S STATEMENT
The past year for Pressure Technologies 
has seen a material step change 
in our businesses. Once again the 
group delivered improved results and 
the diversification of our businesses 
continued apace. The major markets  
of all of the group’s three divisions, 
cylinders, Engineered Products and 
Alternative Energy, are experiencing 
significant volume growth and there  
is a real sense that this will be  
a continuing trend in the mid term.
Cylinder division 
chesterfield Special cylinders (“cSc”) 
had a very good year. continued growth 
in its principal market, the supply of Air 
Pressure vessels (“APvs”) for motion 
compensation systems in the deep water 
oil and gas market, combined with an 
increase in delivery schedules to the Naval 
market, resulted in both increased sales 
and significantly increased profits. 
Pleasingly, the positive trends in the deep 
water oil and gas market have carried 
over into the current financial year. Our 
current order book, in terms of number 
of projects won, is ahead of the same 
time last year although market share 
has been maintained at the expense of 
the well flagged significant reductions 
in selling price. Whilst this work remains 
profitable, these selling price reductions 
are expected to materially impact margins 
in the division. We continue to develop 
the customer base in this market and 
cSc was awarded US ASME accreditation, 
which is already leading to additional sales 
orders in the United States.
Our presence in the naval defence  
market has continued to expand, 
particularly since the closure of our 
European competitor, McS international. 
We have won significant orders for  
vessels being built in German shipyards 
and we are now the principal supplier  
of ultra-large cylinders on all major 
European submarine projects. Our 
medium term target is penetration  
of the large US naval market. 
Sales of services fell in the year as  
a result of an anticipated reduction  
in hydrogen trailer retest and 
refurbishment for BOC. This was  
due to a combination of phasing  
of the retest cycle and a continued  
downturn in the UK hydrogen market. 
There are signs of improvement and 
we have secured new retest and 
refurbishment contracts from other 
industrial gases companies. 
Sales
£17.3m
(2012: £16.3m) 
Operating profit
£3.6m
(2012: £2.3m) 
Net Assets
£6.9m
(2012: £6.8m) 
cyLiNdER diviSiON 07  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2013 Company Overview  01 – 05
Business Review  06 – 17
Governance  18 – 27
Financial Statements  28 – 59
We have continued to develop the in-situ 
retest service for the oil and gas and 
defence markets. Sales growth for this 
new service was lower than anticipated, 
as a result of two projects requiring 
replacement cylinders following our initial 
site survey. This will, however, result in 
additional cylinder sales in the current 
year. The rate of new in-situ project wins 
is accelerating and we anticipate that this 
service will grow rapidly over the next two 
years. Our long term goal is to generate 
50% of divisional profits through sales  
of services.
The market for new high pressure gas 
trailers has been moribund. We did, 
however, secure orders for two new  
state of the art compressed natural gas 
(“cNg”) trailers for delivery in the current 
financial year. These trailers, developed 
with a major industrial gases company, 
were designed and will be built by CSC 
using lightweight, composite cylinders 
supplied by Worthington. As the use 
of alternative fuels such as cNg and 
hydrogen increases, we expect the  
market for this type of trailer and large 
high pressure storage facilities to 
increase. cSc is actively engaged in this 
market through its German subsidiary, 
CSC Deutschland GmbH. 
Major capital spend in the year was 
centred on improving our forging 
capability for small cylinders and naval 
defence cylinders. The group anticipates 
spending in the order of £1 million over 
the next two years to further enhance our 
capabilities in these areas both in terms  
of quality and efficiency.
“The past year for Pressure Technologies has seen  
a material step change in our businesses. Once again  
the group delivered improved results and the 
diversification of our businesses continued apace.”
FOCUs
as well as supplying equipment and technical services to our 
UK armed Forces, the Group provides practical support and 
employment opportunities for service personnel. Chesterfield 
special Cylinders has been commended as a supportive employer 
and for piloting a work experience scheme for army Reservists. 
It has been presented with certificate by Brigadier Greville Bibby 
CBE, Commander 15 (north East) Brigade. The scheme gives 
army Reservists not in civilian employment, experience and 
skills in manufacturing which increases their employability and 
complements the skills they are developing in the army Reserve.
Photograph by Corporal Gabriel Moreno, Royal logistic Corps – Crown 
Copyright Reserved 2013
SUPPORTING THE  
ARMy RESERvE 08  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2013
Engineered Products division 
The division is primarily focused on  
the oil and gas market but, unlike the  
cylinder division, it is not confined  
to a narrow sector of the market,  
either geographically or technologically.  
The division’s products are used  
onshore and in all areas of offshore.  
The division comprises hydratron,  
based in Altrincham and Houston,  
Texas, and Al-Met in Pontyclun,  
South Wales. hydratron manufactures  
a range of air operated high pressure 
hydraulic pumps, gas boosters, power 
packs, hydraulic control panels and  
test rigs mainly for use in the oil and  
gas sector. Al-Met produces wear 
resistant components in a range of  
high alloy steels and tungsten carbides  
for use in high-pressure choke and  
flow control valves, designed to regulate  
flow volumes in extremely demanding 
applications in the subsea and surface  
oil and gas industries.
Al-Met 
Al-Met had its best year ever, breaking 
records for both order intake and  
sales output, as a result of the rapidly  
growing subsea tree market and its  
ability to win greater market share 
through a focus on on-time in-full  
delivery. Major improvements to the 
factory layout and working practices  
also significantly improved productivity 
and the management team has been 
augmented to promote business 
development and to underpin gains in 
quality and environmental management. 
The increase in order intake has 
continued into the new financial year  
and, with subsea tree order lead times  
to the oil exploration and production 
sector currently at 18 months, we expect 
this trend to continue for the foreseeable 
future. capital investment of at least 
£750,000 is planned in the current 
financial year to increase production 
capacity and the range of products.  
Due to the nature of equipment used  
at Al-Met, finance leasing is available  
and inexpensive; consequently we are 
able to spread the cost of purchase so 
that capital investment is self-financing.  
As a result, additional equipment over  
and above the current year’s budget  
will be leased if the current market 
dynamic continues.
Hydratron 
hydratron saw a sustained upturn  
in its markets in the second half of the 
year that more than offset the low order 
intake of the first quarter which impacted 
the first half year results. Annual sales 
in the UK side of the business were the 
highest ever. In May, the US business  
was brought under the direct control  
of the UK and significant progress has 
been made in strengthening the US sales  
and design functions. As with Al-Met, 
both order books and the pipeline 
remain very strong and we expect to 
make significant progress in the current 
year. Similarly, the management team 
has been strengthened in the area of 
quality and environmental management. 
As a result, the company has recently 
achieved both ISO14001 (environmental) 
and OhSAS18001 (health and safety) 
accreditation. These are important 
milestones for the business where  
our customers have an increasing  
focus on both environmental and  
health and safety management.
During the year, the business has 
started to reduce the level of in-house 
manufacture of components in the UK 
Sales
£16.0m
(2012: £13.9m) 
Operating profit
£1.6m
(2012: £1.0m) 
Net Assets
£7.7m
(2012: £7.7m) 
ENgiNEEREd PROdUcTS 09  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2013 Company Overview  01 – 05
Business Review  06 – 17
Governance  18 – 27
Financial Statements  28 – 59
to free up additional space for assembly 
of pumps and systems. This will continue 
in 2014 and consequently no major 
investment in plant and equipment is 
planned. The major expenditure of 2013 
was replacement of the iT infrastructure, 
which will be followed up in the current 
year by investment in ERP systems to 
manage the growth and increasing 
complexity of the business.
Product development is critical to the 
long-term success of the business.  
Our major development programme  
is centred on the automation of control 
panels and test systems. This has the 
benefit for the customer of simplifying 
operations, improving safety and 
providing a digital audit trail. The latter 
is particularly important for test systems 
where our customers’ customers are 
imposing more stringent product 
certification requirements. Plans are 
well advanced to increase the resources 
available for research and development. 
From January 2014, R&D will be 
managed separately from engineering 
under a recently recruited specialist 
R&d manager. This will allow hydratron 
to speed up the time to market for 
development projects.
Given our success in buying and 
integrating Al-Met and hydratron into  
the group, we see Engineered Products 
as an area for further development.  
There is significant organic growth 
potential which we will continue to  
pursue but we are also looking for 
acquisition opportunities to expand  
the range of products of the division.
FOCUs
The Group has significant experience in using management 
techniques developed in the automotive industry to improve  
our businesses. in Engineered Products, the focus has been  
on On Time in Full (“OTiF”) delivery to our customers. in an 
industry with a history of poor customer service this is a clear 
differentiator. OTIF puts our customers first and reduces their 
costs and inventory levels. The discipline required to achieve 
OTiF also means that our businesses and supply chain are more 
efficient and we therefore get the double benefit of higher sales 
and lower costs. 
OTIF AIdING GROWTH  
IN ENGINEEREd PROdUCTS 10  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2013
Alternative Energy 
chesterfield Biogas (“cBg”) sells a range 
of equipment for cleaning raw biogas 
produced by anaerobic digestion of 
organic waste. The cleaning process uses 
water to strip out unwanted gases such 
as carbon dioxide producing almost pure 
methane, known as biomethane, which is 
then injected into the UK natural gas grid. 
in the energy sector, this is termed Biogas 
to grid (“Btg”). cBg was the first company 
in the UK to provide equipment for BtG  
at didcot in 2010.
In October 2012, CBG delivered its second 
Btg project to a waste processing site 
in Stockport and this was the reason for 
the increase in sales over 2012. Losses 
remained at £0.5 million, as we continued 
to invest for expected growth in 2014.
in last year’s preliminary results 
presentation, I described the year under 
review as the “crucial year” for cBg. This 
has proved to be the case. The remaining 
regulatory hurdles to large scale injection 
of biomethane into the UK gas grid were 
resolved in May and we have seen  
a transformation of the sales pipeline as 
large utility companies and processors 
of organic waste have woken up to the 
potential of this market. To date we have 
received orders for delivery of two Btg 
projects in 2014 with a combined sales 
value of £4.6 million. Negotiations are 
at an advanced stage on further Btg 
projects, which may result in additional 
sales in the current financial year and give 
grounds for significant optimism for 2015.
People
As a group, we recognise the importance 
of hiring, developing and retaining high 
calibre people. This is not only necessary 
to deliver our short term goals but  
is essential for our medium and  
long term succession planning.  
In the past year, two of our subsidiary  
Managing directors have completed 
strategic decision making courses  
at cranfield University; we have  
two senior managers who have  
completed MBAs and we continue  
to support a number of employees 
in first degree courses, professional 
qualifications and apprenticeships. 
All UK based manufacturing units now  
have apprentices and we have just 
recruited five new graduates across  
the group. We will continue to seek  
out the best talent to ensure that we  
are properly resourced to meet our  
growth opportunities.
Summary and outlook
The year under review has been another 
good year for the group and one in which 
we have made significant progress in all 
three divisions. The group has continued 
to improve profitability, whilst at the  
same time improving the quality of  
these earnings through a better balance 
of performance across its divisions. 
Looking to the current year, there is 
significant growth potential for the 
Engineered Products and Alternative 
Energy divisions. The cylinder division  
has a fantastic opportunity to develop  
its service offerings, in particular  
in-situ testing, and this gives the Board 
confidence for further progress in the 
year. All operating divisions of the group 
are expected to be profitable and we  
look forward to updating shareholders  
as the year progresses.
John Hayward
chief Executive
3 December 2013
Sales
£1.1m
(2012: £0.2m) 
Operating Loss
£(0.5)m
(2012: £(0.5)m) 
Net Assets
£0.2m
(2012: £1.6m) 
ALTERNATivE ENERgy 11  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2013 Company Overview  01 – 05
Business Review  06 – 17
Governance  18 – 27
Financial Statements  28 – 59
STRATEGy
BUiLdiNg FOR
ThE FUTURE
GOAL
To build a highly profitable group of companies, specialising in technology  
for the containment and control of liquids and gases in pressure systems.
STRATEGy
To identify and develop, profitable niche opportunities in growth sectors for pressure  
products and services through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions.
dELIvERy
dEvELOPING PROFITABLE  
ACqUISITION OPPORTUNITIES
Clear Group acquisition criteria:
 Minimised risk by focusing on  
 closely related technologies and   
 markets with overlapping  
 customer base
 Profitable businesses with  
 significant growth prospects
 stable management teams  
 capable of delivering growth
Rapid integration of management  
and financial control
3
IdENTIFyING ORGANIC ANd 
ACqUISITION OPPORTUNITIES
internal focus, drawn from Group 
knowledge, market research and 
attending trade events
External focus, capitilising on  
feedback from customers, agents, 
distributors and suppliers
1
dEvELOPING PROFITABLE 
ORGANIC GROWTH 
OPPORTUNITIES
structured development  
programmes with project  
champions subject to regular  
Group review
Minimising risk through  
evolutionary development
“lean” business specialists at all 
operating companies focusing on  
total quality and profit maximisation
2
