 Pressure Technologies (“PT” or “Group”) has made considerable 
progress in the last 12 months. We have delivered better results 
and have made improvements across the Group to create a 
more balanced business portfolio. This is highlighted by the 
expansion of sales in the Engineered Products Division and the 
development of new service offerings in the Cylinder Division. 
PT is growing and that growth is now better balanced across the 
Group’s divisions and markets.
Chesterfield Special Cylinders (“CSC”) grew strongly, as a  
direct result of the resurgence in the building of deepwater 
semi-submersible oil rigs and drill ships, following a prolonged 
downturn, caused, initially, by the global financial crisis and 
exacerbated by the crisis of confidence following the sinking of 
Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010. 
Air Pressure Vessels (“APVs”) for motion compensation systems 
on 10 drillship projects were delivered in the year, compared 
to three in 2011. We currently have orders for seven projects 
in 2013, compared to six at the same stage last year. However, 
market dynamics have changed considerably and margins are 
under acute pressure from Asian competition, particularly South 
Korea, and we expect to see a declining market share for projects 
built in South Korean shipyards. This is compounded by a weaker 
Euro, as sales into this market are Euro denominated. 
We are, however, actively pursuing opportunities with a number 
of new entrants into the motion compensation system market 
who need the design expertise of CSC. Opportunities will also 
open up away from South Korea as Brazil expands shipyard 
capacity to build oil rigs and drillships.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
John Hayward
Chief Executive
CYLINDER DIVISION
Sales: £16.3 million (2011: £11.0 million)
Operating profit: £2.3 million (2011: £1.5 million)
Net Assets: £6.8 million (2011: £6.9million)
08  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2012 As expected, sales into the naval defence market were materially 
lower than in 2011, as a result of the phasing of projects rather 
than a downturn in the market. In August, CSC won the contract 
to supply the high pressure cylinders for the sixth Astute class 
submarine, HMS Agamemnon, which will be delivered over 2013 
and 2014. The order for cylinders for the seventh and final Astute 
class submarine is expected in 2013 for delivery over 2014 
and 2015 and we have begun preliminary design work on the 
cylinders for the Trident replacement. 
We have continued focus on expanding our customer base in 
the naval defence market and have strengthened our design 
team with an experienced naval cylinder designer. Building on 
our expertise on cleanliness standards developed for the oil and 
gas industry, we won a contract from BAE to supply a service 
cleaning cylinders for oxygen containment. This demonstrated 
CSC’s technical capabilities and its flexibility. The process was 
developed and capital equipment was procured and installed 
in a six week period to meet an urgent customer requirement. 
CSC is now planning to market this service to other potential 
customers, building oxygen systems. The contract to maintain 
the Royal Navy’s stores of high pressure cylinders, won last year, 
has expanded rapidly with a number of planned submarine refit 
projects increasing the value of this contract, as well as giving 
more opportunity to sell in-situ inspection services.
The Small Cylinder market stabilised in the year with an increase 
in military aerospace spending, which improved margins in this 
market. The military market has been more resilient than we 
forecast and in August we were awarded the contract to supply 
steel high pressure cylinders on the initial build programme of 
the F22 Raptor. The development of the type IV composite has 
been successfully completed but, as yet, we have not identified 
a new commercial platform into which this can be built and 
consequently we have amortised the £224,000 development 
costs incurred to date. 
Typical of this approach was an urgent new 
requirement from the U.S. Air Force (USAF) 
for high pressure cylinders for its fleet of F-22 
Raptors. The first delivery of CSC’s cylinders 
to the USAF was accomplished in record time, 
with CSC receiving the order on a Monday 
and the initial batch being delivered to Seattle, 
Washington in time for test flights the following 
Friday.
FLEXIBILITY AND SPEED OF RESPONSE 
ARE CRITICAL ORDER WINNING CRITERIA 
FOR CHESTERFIELD SPECIAL CYLINDERS
2012 was a turning point for the Group, as we returned  
to growth and delivered market expectations.
09  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2012
Company Overview  01-07
Business Review  08-19
Governance  20-26
Financial Statements  27-57 The balance was investment in a number of process 
improvements, particularly in the forging and washing processes.  
Capital expenditure in 2013 is expected to be at a similar level  
to 2012 with the major focus being on process efficiency. 
The key issue for CSC is to develop high added value service 
offerings quickly, to offset the effects of margin erosion from 
low cost competitors and the weak Euro. The business has the 
energy, the expertise and the people to achieve this effectively. 
The division is comprised of Hydratron Ltd in Altrincham, 
Hydratron Inc in Houston, Texas and Al-Met Ltd in Pontyclun, 
South Wales. The Hydratron businesses manufacture a range of 
air operated high pressure hydraulic pumps, gas boosters, power 
packs, hydraulic control panels and test rigs mainly for use in the 
oil and gas sector. Al-Met produces wear resistant components  
in a range of high alloy steels and tungsten carbides for use in 
high-pressure choke and flow control valves, designed to regulate 
flow volumes in extremely demanding applications in the subsea 
and surface oil and gas industries. 
Hydratron Ltd
Hydratron Ltd had an excellent year with sales growing by one 
third and operating profits doubling. The sales, design and 
development teams were strengthened during the year.  
New products launched in the year included a 30,000 psi pump 
for very high pressure testing applications, a helium leak test gas 
booster system capable of injecting precise concentrations  
of helium and a pulse test system for testing aerospace  
pressure transducers. 
This was always viewed as a long term development and we 
are well placed to move into the composite market as new 
opportunities arise.
The high pressure trailer market saw a reduction in reconditioning 
and refurbishment due to the phasing of statutory inspection 
within the BOC trailer fleet but we supplied two new trailers to  
Air Liquide and Linde France. Overall sales were slightly higher 
and margins slightly lower, as a result of the material content in 
the new trailers. CSC’s new sales manager in Germany has 
made significant inroads with the large industrial gases 
companies in Europe. This, coupled with the financial instability 
of a major European competitor, puts CSC in a strong position 
in this market. With the forecast growth of the market for the 
transportation and bulk storage of hydrogen and CNG, the 
medium and long term prospects for this market are very 
promising. 
Our in-situ inspection service grew fourfold in the year and we 
have a team solely dedicated to the development of this offering. 
Immediate opportunities for growth exist in the defence and 
oil and gas markets. In the medium term, the increase of high 
pressure bulk storage of hydrogen and compressed natural 
gas for alternative fuels will be a source for further growth. 
In-situ inspection creates a new revenue stream from the 
knowledge base of CSC. It is a high margin service offering, which 
is not subject to the pricing pressures created by our low cost 
competitors in the ultra large cylinder manufacturing market.
Manufacturing continued to focus on “lean” initiatives. A major 
review of trailer build was carried out, creating significant 
improvements in strip down and build times. A similar initiative 
is underway on the ultra-large finishing line. These initiatives are 
team based, owned and run by the shopfloor employees  
working on the product. Further investment was made in CSC’s 
IT systems with the introduction of a more sophisticated finite 
capacity scheduling system and shop floor data capture.  
This allows efficient real time planning of resources to further 
improve efficiency. The major items of capital spend in the year 
were the oxygen cleaning facility and replacement overhead 
cranes. Together, these accounted for 50% of the total capital 
spend of £446,000. 
ENGINEERED PRODUCTS
Sales: £13.9 million (2011: £11.2 million)
Operating profit: £1.0 million (2011: £1.0 million)
Net Assets: £7.7 million (2011: £6.5 million)
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 
CONTINUED
10  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2012 The latter project involved the recruitment of an electronics 
engineer, giving the business self-sufficiency in the design and 
development of automated plc controlled systems. Several new 
product opportunities have been identified and an additional 
full time development engineer is being sought to speed up the 
development cycle. 
The assembly section of the business was reorganised to  
split standard product assembly from the bespoke systems. 
This has improved the efficiency of both areas. Due to the pace 
of growth in the business, the Operations Manager role is to 
be split in January with the incumbent becoming Technical 
Manager responsible for design, engineering and logistics and 
a new, experienced lean manufacturing engineer joining as 
Manufacturing Manager responsible for the machining and 
assembly areas. 
Due to the nature of the business, little capital expenditure is 
required. IT systems will be upgraded in 2013 but beyond that  
no other major spend is planned.
Hydratron has an excellent reputation for its design and build 
ability. This, allied to a strong sales team, augmented by a 
distributor network in key market locations and the general  
level of market activity, gives grounds for optimism of further 
progress in 2013.
Hydratron Inc
Hydratron Inc, after a good first half, failed to deliver its second 
half order book profitably, despite a 50% increase in sales.  
We did not have sufficient management resources of the  
right calibre in the business which has now been remedied.  
An experienced general manager was appointed in October 2012 
with the remit to grow the business profitably. Being located in 
Houston, the business is situated close to all the major oilfield 
wellhead equipment and control system manufacturers and is, 
therefore, in a prime location from which to grow. It has already 
established a reputation for the same design and build capability 
as its UK sister company and is expected to make significant 
progress in 2013.
Hydratron’s range of test equipment for valves 
and hoses are not just used in the oil and 
gas market. Sales are regularly made into the 
industrial gases, power and defence markets  
for component testing. The product range  
was extended during the year to include  
pulse testing systems for life cycle testing  
of pressure transducers which gives exciting  
new opportunities in the aerospace and 
automotive markets. 
HIGH PRESSURE COMPONENT  
TESTING EQUIPMENT OPENS NEW 
MARKETS TO HYDRATRON
With immediate organic growth prospects the Engineered 
Products Division is expected to become the largest part  
of the Group within 18 months.
11  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2012
Company Overview  01-07
Business Review  08-19
Governance  20-26
Financial Statements  27-57 Al-Met
Al-Met had a challenging year. Sales were at the same level as 
2011 but the phasing of these was very heavily skewed with 
low sales in the first half and a strong third quarter which tailed 
off into the fourth quarter. Concurrently, market forecasts and 
customer orders for 2013 were showing a significant increase. 
The decision was taken to hold the level of the shopfloor 
workforce and strengthen the management and engineering 
team with lean manufacturing specialists ahead of this increase. 
As a result of these factors, operating profits were down two 
thirds on 2011. The expected growth has materialised, following 
these changes, and the year end order book was 73% higher 
than at September 2011 and production schedules are full 
through to the end of February 2013. An additional afternoon 
shift has subsequently been recruited to meet the increased 
loading and reduce overtime. 
There are two major reasons for this growth. A significant 
proportion of Al-Met’s turnover is wear parts for subsea tree 
valves. This market is growing rapidly as more deepwater oil 
wells come on stream. Market forecasts and customer feedback 
suggest a 40% increase in this market in 2013 and continued 
growth into 2014. Also, a UK competitor ceased production in 
October which has compounded the increase. 
As a division, it was disappointing that operating profits did not 
grow year on year. Increased profits at Hydratron Ltd were offset 
by the reduction in profitability at Al-Met and losses at Hydratron 
Inc. The outlook for 2013 is good and I expect the benefits of 
the changes made in 2012 to feed through into improved profits 
in 2013. The organic growth opportunities for this division are 
immediate and we expect Engineered Products to become the 
largest division of the Group, in terms of sales revenues, within 
the next eighteen months. 
Additionally, we are pursuing a number of acquisition 
opportunities to add further breadth to the product range of  
the division. 
In the medium to long term, on time in full delivery (“OTIF”) 
remains the key to success for the division. 
Specific targeting of customers has proved that where delivery 
OTIF is met, order intake improves. In the current buoyant 
environment, this advantage is masked by general growth but, as 
our companies are significantly smaller than their competitors, 
we expect to take market share, even when markets are 
declining, if we can consistently deliver OTIF.
This was an important year for Chesterfield BioGas (“CBG”), our 
start-up alternative energy equipment business. An order was 
secured for an upgrader, our second into the biogas to grid 
(“BtG”) market. This was due for installation in September 2012 
but a road accident, which occurred during delivery, damaged 
the equipment and delayed installation to October. But for this, 
operating losses would have been halved in the year. More 
importantly, confirmation by Government of the structure of 
the Renewable Heat Incentive (“RHI”) for BtG has increased the 
number and size of potential projects.
In previous years, CBG has been quoting a handful of small, 
“pilot” projects with larger projects only at the feasibility 
stage. Now, quotations are more numerous and the project 
size has increased to fully commercial sized plants as large 
utility companies look to enter the market. This matches the 
pattern experienced in other countries, where adoption of this 
technology is more advanced. 
ALTERNATIVE ENERGY
Sales: £0.2 million (2011: £0.9 million)
Operating Profits: £(0.5) million (2011: £(0.5) million)
Net Assets: £1.6 million (2011: £1.7million)
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 
CONTINUED
12  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2012 Summary and outlook
2012 was a turning point for PT, as we returned to growth and 
delivered market expectations. The result was underpinned by 
recovery in the Cylinder Division’s main market and the Group’s 
other two divisions making significant progress. This progress, 
which has created a better balanced Group, is yet to be reflected 
in bottom line performance.
Looking to 2013, the Cylinder Division will face stiffer competition 
in its core oil and gas market and the challenge is to speed 
up the development of high added value services and new 
customers. There is significant potential for revenue growth in 
the Engineered Products Division, which this year must lead to 
bottom line growth. The Alternative Energy Division, Chesterfield 
BioGas, appears set for major growth and 2013 will be the crucial 
year for this business. 
The clear message is that Pressure Technologies delivered 
in 2012; it is a better balanced Group, growing strongly in 
market sectors where its expertise is recognised and valued, 
seeking opportunities for further expansion through selective 
acquisitions.  
John Hayward
Chief Executive
4 December 2012 The Group has wide areas of expertise in 
pressure containment and control. This not only 
leads to the development of new products but 
also to the development of value added services 
for our customers. For example, at CSC, a service 
launched to support the management of retest 
and refurbishment of high pressure gas trailers 
has led to the launch of a service for the in-situ 
inspection of cylinders to save our customers 
time and the expense of returning cylinders for 
statutory retest.
DEVELOPMENT OF ADDED VALUE 
SERVICES MAKING KNOWLEDGE PAY
We have delivered better results and have made 
improvements across the Group to create a more 
balanced business portfolio.
13  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2012
Company Overview  01-07
Business Review  08-19
Governance  20-26
Financial Statements  27-57
