 Richard L. Shacklady
Chairman
I am pleased to report that the Group has delivered a much 
improved performance for the year ended 29 September 2012, 
with a continuation of the recovery previously reported in the 
first half interim statement.
We begin the new financial year with solid order books in our 
two main divisions, Engineered Products and Cylinders, and a 
number of contracts stretching beyond the current financial year, 
underpinning our confidence in the medium term prospects 
for the Group. Whilst the oil and gas market remains the largest 
sector for the Group, the businesses are now better balanced 
both by product sector and customer geographic location.
The strength of the Group’s balance sheet underpins the Board’s 
strategy for the growth of the Group. Our prime objective is to 
penetrate select growth market sectors which offer synergies to 
our core businesses and provide niche, design and technology 
driven, high margin products for critical applications, through 
organic development programmes or by acquisition.
Results
Group revenues for the year ended 29 September 2012 
increased almost 32% to a record £30.4 million from  
£23.1 million in 2011. Profit before taxation saw a threefold 
increase to £1.8 million from £0.6 million in 2011, giving basic 
earnings per share of 11.2p compared to 3.5p.
We continue to maintain a strong balance sheet through 
focussing on operating cash and working capital controls  
across the Group’s Divisions and net cash at the year end  
was £2.7 million, after outflows of £0.8 million on deferred 
acquisition costs, compared to £2.9 million in 2011.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
04  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2012 Given our strong balance sheet and confidence in the medium 
term prospects for the Group, the Board is proposing a final 
dividend of 5.0 pence per share, giving a total of 7.5 pence per 
share for the year. This represents an increase of 4% over 2011. 
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 8 March 2013 to 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on  
15 February 2013.
The Board is committed to maintaining a progressive  
dividend policy.
Trading
Demand from the global offshore oil and gas drilling operators 
has continued to firm-up, reflecting a return to higher levels of 
exploration and production by the major oil and gas producers, 
in particular, and activity levels generally across the wider 
industry.
The Group has significant interests in two sectors of this market; 
deepwater oil and gas drilling equipment and oilfield well head 
equipment and controls, including the rapidly developing subsea 
well head equipment sector. 
Our Engineered Products Division, which supplies the oilfield 
well head controls and equipment sectors has continued to 
benefit from sustained high levels of oil and gas production both 
onshore and offshore. The subsea well head equipment sector 
experienced a period of flat demand for some six months and is 
now moving ahead strongly with new offshore fields moving into 
the production phase.
As a niche engineering business it is vital that  
we continue to invest in our employees at all 
levels to ensure business continuity and growth.  
In the UK we operate an extensive apprentice 
scheme and structured training programmes 
covering the whole spectrum from school  
leavers through to post graduate qualifications. 
All senior engineering and operations managers 
in our UK based companies started their  
working life as apprentices.
EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT IS  
ESSENTIAL FOR OUR CONTINUED 
SUCCESS
We begin the new financial year with solid order books in our two main divisions, 
Engineered Products and Cylinders, and a number of contracts stretching 
beyond the current financial year, underpinning our confidence in the medium 
term prospects for the Group. Whilst the oil and gas market remains the largest 
sector for the Group, the businesses are now better balanced both by product 
sector and customer geographic location.
05  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2012
Company Overview  01-07
Business Review  08-19
Governance  20-26
Financial Statements  27-57 The Cylinder Division has seen a significant increase in rig and 
drillship activity and in the defence sector we maintain our 
market leading position at home whilst increasing sales into 
overseas defence programmes. Further business has been 
secured from overseas navies and, in the UK, we have taken 
orders for BAE’s Astute boat 6 submarine. As the UK MoD source 
for in-service and after market cylinder maintenance and support 
for the Royal Navy, we have responsibility for the management 
of through-life capability for all high pressure cylinders including 
in-situ inspection. 
Our facilities in the industrial gases storage and transportation 
market have been further developed, resulting in record levels of 
activity in this sector and growing  penetration of new accounts. 
This in turn provides the platform for further growth on the back 
of compressed natural gas (CNG) and hydrogen being recognised 
across Europe as alternatives to traditional fuels.
We continue to believe that the best long term prospects for 
the Group lie in the global energy markets and particularly 
in the equipment required for exploration and production of 
hydrocarbons. 
In our Alternative Energy Division, Chesterfield BioGas has been 
very active throughout the year promoting and tendering for 
biogas upgrade plant and enjoys a high profile in this market.  
Demand for UK biogas upgrade plant is still in early phase 
development with, so far, limited conversion from the project 
stage, which is very active, into firm orders.  
Our second biogas upgrading installation, however, will be 
completed in the 1st Quarter of the coming financial year and 
we are expecting to see a number of the outstanding major 
quotations converted into firm orders for delivery in mid 2013 
and beyond.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
CONTINUED
EVOLUTIONARY PRODUCT 
DEVELOPMENT GIVES LOW COST, LOW 
RISK ORGANIC GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES
Across the Group, an evolutionary approach to 
product development is encouraged. This not 
only minimises the costs of development but  
also reduces the risks inherent in launching  
new products. Pictured above is a helium leak 
test gas booster system launched by Hydratron 
at the ADIPEC 2012 trade show in Abu Dhabi.  
An evolutionary development from the standard 
gas booster, it allows precise concentrations of 
helium to be injected into pressure systems as 
part of leak testing.
06  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2012 The Board believes that there is major UK potential for this 
technology in the longer term. However regular reviews on the 
division’s progress are being undertaken and we recognise that 
2013 is a crucial year for Chesterfield BioGas.
Prospects
The Engineered Products Division is ready to deliver further 
growth; the facility in North America has been re-structured and 
is very well positioned to take advantage of a buoyant US market 
for its well control products. Additionally, the seabed well control 
equipment market has rebounded after a period of stagnation 
and orders from this sector are particularly buoyant. 
Having recovered strongly in 2012, we expect growth in the 
Cylinder Division to moderate this year, not least due to 
increased competition from the Far East in the oil and gas 
market. However, the business does benefit from having a large 
forward order book, market leadership in the defence sector  
and growth positions into diversified markets. 
We will continue to seek acquisitions that suit our profile and will 
fit into and enhance the Engineered Products Division. It is now 
positioned both geographically and in product range to become 
a significant player in the oilfield control and equipment sector 
and we believe it is proving to be a platform for growth.
Richard L. Shacklady
Chairman
4 December 2012 
We continue to believe that the best long term prospects for  
the Group lie in the global energy markets and particularly in  
the equipment required for exploration and production  
of hydrocarbons. 
07  Pressure Technologies plc  Annual Report 2012
Company Overview  01-07
Business Review  08-19
Governance  20-26
Financial Statements  27-57
