 2 Arriva plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2005
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
PROGRESS
DELIVERING Arriva delivered a strong performance in 2005.
Firm management of our businesses and continued
growth from our operations in mainland Europe
ensured that profits were maintained in the first
full year without our Northern rail franchise, and
despite rising fuel costs. At the same time, we won
new contracts and made further acquisitions that
will underpin sustained growth. 
Our ability to grow our core business in the future
was enhanced by the disposal of our vehicle rental
division, which further focused the Group on its core
strategy and strengthened the balance sheet.
Group revenue in 2005 was £1,626.8 million 
(2004: £1,759 million) and Group operating profit
was £123.1 million (2004: £126.3 million). As
expected, revenue was lower after the loss of the
£285 million contributed in 2004 by the Arriva Trains
Northern franchise, but it has been substantially
replaced by growing turnover and profits from our
investment in mainland Europe. 
Basic earnings per share increased to 43.7p 
(2004: 42.6p). We have maintained earnings per
share, excluding goodwill impairment, intangible
asset amortisation and exceptional items, at 45.0p 
(2004: 45.1p). 
“As market liberalisation gathers 
pace in mainland Europe, we are
benefiting from our established
market positions on the ground. We
believe that mainland Europe will
continue to provide opportunities 
for us to grow profitably.”
SIR RICHARD BROADBENT CHAIRMAN Arriva plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2005  3
www.arriva.co.uk www.arriva.co.uk
Excluding our vehicle rental operations, EBITDA
(earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, goodwill
impairment and intangible asset amortisation) rose
eight per cent to £213.1 million (2004: £197.8 million).
The Board is recommending a final dividend of
14.77p per share. Together with the interim dividend
of 5.07p per share paid in October 2005, this makes
a total dividend of 19.84p per share, five per cent
higher than last year, maintaining our policy of stable
dividend growth. The final dividend will be paid on 
2 May 2006 to shareholders on the register at the
close of business on 31 March 2006.
In my report last year, I identified three areas of focus.
First, our strategic goal of being recognised as the
leading transport services organisation in Europe.
Second, the reorganisation of our senior management
to reflect this focus. And third, ensuring good
corporate governance to support Arriva’s growth. 
We have made progress in all three areas. 
STRATEGY
Our strategy of selective investment in operations
outside the UK has increased our resilience and
provided us with further growth in mainland Europe.
During 2005 we won significant bus and rail contracts
in Germany, the Netherlands and Scandinavia, and 
we have made acquisitions in Germany and Italy,
consolidating our existing position. In January 2006
we won our first rail contract in Sweden. We now 
run bus services in seven mainland European countries
and have rail operations in three, with a fourth
(Sweden) in the pipeline. As market liberalisation
gathers pace in mainland Europe, we are benefiting
from our established market positions on the ground.
We believe that mainland Europe will continue to
provide opportunities for us to grow profitably.
In the UK we continue to be a major public transport
operator. Arriva is the largest bus operator in London,
with its growing populations of residents and
commuters. We have continued to invest both in
London and in the UK regions to maintain our leading
position. We have a long-term presence in UK rail with
Arriva Trains Wales operating the Wales and Borders
franchise and we are seeking to develop our rail
portfolio in the UK as well as mainland Europe. We
have pre-qualified for the South Western passenger
rail franchise which will be awarded later in 2006.
Arriva has a strong balance sheet. Our substantial cash
generation, combined with the recent vehicle rental
disposal, gives us the flexibility to continue to take
advantage of high quality investment opportunities.
Arriva has a strong balance sheet. Our 
substantial cash generation, combined with 
the recent vehicle rental disposal, gives us the
flexibility to continue to take advantage of 
high quality investment opportunities. 4 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
continued
MANAGEMENT 
I reported last year how in March 2005 we
reorganised the senior management team under 
the Chief Executive, Bob Davies, including the
appointment of David Martin as Deputy Chief
Executive and Group Managing Director – Operations.
In addition to aligning the management of the
business with our strategic goals, the changes paved
the way for succession at Chief Executive level. 
In December we announced that Bob would retire 
at the AGM in April 2006 after more than seven 
years in post, to be succeeded by David. 
Bob’s vision and leadership over the last seven years
have transformed Arriva, giving the company both 
a focused strategy and a record of consistent 
delivery. He has led Arriva to be one of the leaders
within its sector, and he has developed an excellent
management team, which will ensure continuity
under David’s leadership.  The Board wishes to place
on record its appreciation of Bob’s outstanding
contribution to Arriva plc.
The management development process continued
during the year with a number of additional senior
appointments being made below Board level. 
Our intention is to continue to strengthen our
management team to take the Group forward.
GOVERNANCE
As Arriva grows, it is important that corporate
governance develops in line with best practice to
support ambitious and well-controlled business
development. In 2005 we appointed two new non-
executive directors, with the result that 
from April 2006 the Board will have three executive
directors and four independent non-executive
directors, in addition to me as Chairman.
Nick Buckles, Chief Executive of Group 4 Securicor
plc, joined the Board in July. He has extensive
experience of operating businesses in the UK and
mainland Europe, which has already enabled him 
to make a valuable contribution to the Group. Steve
Williams, Company Secretary and General Counsel 
of Unilever, joined the Board in September as our
Senior Independent Director. He brings a wealth of
experience of both corporate governance and
operations across a wide range of markets. 
In June, Michael Allen retired as a non-executive
director, having served on the Board for eight years.
The Board wishes to thank him for his contribution 
to the Group. Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005  5
www.arriva.co.uk
During 2005, we also reviewed the terms of reference
and membership of all the Board Committees. The
new terms of reference are available on our website.
We reviewed the financial and other authorities of
the Board, making changes where appropriate to
reflect the scale and complexity of our current
business. Following an internal Board evaluation
exercise, the Board’s agenda was re-orientated to 
give more emphasis to strategic issues central to
Arriva’s business development.
This is an exciting time for Arriva as we strive for
further profitable growth and development in
markets where increasing liberalisation provides both
opportunities and competitive challenges. We are very
aware that public transport is a service business and
ultimately it is the quality of the service we provide
that will underpin our leadership in the transport
sectors we serve. 
To meet these challenges, our employees work hard
to meet our customers’ needs. The events of 7 July in
London showed again the quality and commitment of
Arriva’s employees and I would like to express the
Board’s appreciation and thanks to all our employees
for their contribution to another successful year for
the Group. 
SIR RICHARD BROADBENT CHAIRMAN
Ultimately it is the quality of the service we
provide that will underpin our leadership in the
transport sectors we serve.
“This is an exciting time for Arriva as we
strive for further profitable growth and
development in markets where increasing
liberalisation provides both opportunities
and competitive challenges.”
SIR RICHARD BROADBENT CHAIRMAN
