 8 Arriva plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2005
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
OPERATING REVIEW
We have achieved strong results across the
Group as a whole, delivering consistently in line
with our strategy. Increased fuel costs and the
one-off reduction in revenue and profit from the
loss of the Arriva Trains Northern franchise have
been substantially offset by growth elsewhere,
demonstrating the resilience that our strategy
gives us. We made further progress in mainland
Europe, winning significant contracts in northern
Europe, and acquiring businesses in Germany
and Italy, achieving the European growth that
we planned. 2006 has started well with a further
European rail tender win.
UK BUS
Our UK Bus operations achieved an operating 
profit of £68 million before exceptional items 
(2004: £63.6 million) on revenue of £697.5 million
(2004: £651.5 million), maintaining margins at just
under 10 per cent, and increasing absolute profits
despite cost pressures in the business, including a fuel
cost increase of more than £6 million for 2005.
Arriva’s policy is to fix fuel prices 12 to 15 months
ahead. We have now fixed the price for our fuel
requirements for 2006, and this will result in additional
costs for this division of approximately £14 million. 
We are working to offset this as far as possible 
through further revenue growth underpinned by
effective marketing and strong partnerships with local
authorities, combined with effective cost management.
DELIVERING
PERFORMANCE
“Arriva has an excellent portfolio of
growing, cash-generative businesses.
Our acquired businesses are
delivering profitable growth and 
we have significant opportunities
for further strategic investment.”
BOB DAVIES CHIEF EXECUTIVE Arriva plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2005  9
www.arriva.co.uk
REGIONS
It has been a year of significant change for our UK
regional business. Following the reorganisation early
in 2005, we have restructured the business to reduce
overheads and embarked on a drive for innovation 
in the way we approach the market. We continue 
to develop our techniques for in-depth analysis of
population and neighbourhood profiles to find how
we can meet demand more effectively. We are also
running trials of fresh marketing and information
initiatives to improve services, and make it easier 
and more convenient to travel by bus. 
For the first time in several years, we are seeing
industry consolidation with a number of smaller
operators being acquired by major groups. We
acquired operations in Stevenage at the beginning of
2005 and in July we bought the assets of Blue Bus,
operating in Bolton and north of Manchester. In
February 2006 we acquired Premier Buses, operating
in Milton Keynes. We also recently contracted to
acquire an operation in Bishop Auckland. 
The reliability of services is vital in broadening the
appeal of buses to the public. In January 2006 the
Secretary of State for Transport, Alastair Darling,
called on the industry to develop partnership schemes
which deliver a new way of planning and operating
bus networks in big urban areas, with local
authorities and bus operators working together to
improve services. We fully support this approach. 
Arriva is committed to working in partnership with
local authorities. In 2005 we delivered the first year 
of a five-year programme to develop services on
Merseyside. Further partnership schemes in Durham,
Thurrock and Medway have seen the introduction of
new network designs, new and refurbished vehicles
and improved information and facilities at bus stops.
Passenger numbers have increased as a result of
improved travel experiences and reduced delays.
The introduction in April 2006 of free off-peak local
bus travel in England for passengers who are over 60
or who have disabilities is an important initiative. On
the basis of similar experience in Scotland and Wales
we expect this initiative to stimulate growth. We are
currently in detailed discussions with local authorities
to establish how the individual schemes will operate. 
2005 has been an important year in the development
of our UK regional business. The action we have taken
positions the business well to absorb future cost
increases and we believe the outlook is favourable. 
2005 has been an important year in the
development of our UK regional business. 10 Arriva plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2005
LONDON
Arriva is the largest bus operator in London,
accounting for more than 19 per cent of the 
network at the end of 2005. Improved operational
performance led to better service delivery and
enhanced our revenue under Quality Incentive
Contracts. Over the last five years we have invested 
a total of £159 million in new vehicles for London,
substantially renewing and expanding the fleet.
We expect to see continuing increases in usage of 
the overall London bus network. Transport for London
continues to predict long-term growth as London’s
residential and commuting populations increase. 
The actual and attempted bombings in July had a 
big effect on public transport in London. Passenger
numbers for our London tourism and sightseeing
operation, The Original Tour, fell by 40 per cent in the
peak tourist months but the business is well placed to
regain its position as confidence increases and tourist
numbers return to previous levels.
UK TRAINS
Our UK Trains division achieved an operating profit 
of £14.9 million before intangible asset amortisation
(2004: £31.9 million) on revenue of £239.4 million
(2004: £509 million). Operating profit includes some
residual income from the Arriva Trains Northern
franchise that ceased in December 2004. Arriva 
Trains Wales (ATW) was our only UK Trains business
operating in 2005. 
Our ATW franchise runs until December 2018, and 
is supported by the Welsh Assembly Government
(WAG) which, in partnership with Arriva, is
committed to bringing forward innovation and
investment. In January 2005 the WAG announced
funding of £50 million over the life of the franchise to
allow the leasing of additional trains to accommodate
high demand for peak time services in the Valley Line
network. In partnership with the WAG, Arriva
announced a £3 million station upgrade programme
in North Wales, and the installation of CCTV on
trains. During 2005 Arriva made further investments
in stations to improve the service for our customers
and enhance revenue. 
In December 2005, following extensive consultation,
we introduced a new timetable adding 950 services 
a week across the network and providing more seats
on peak time train services among other benefits. 
Passenger numbers, particularly in South Wales’
Valleys, are continuing to grow significantly. The 
new timetable has started to deliver improvements 
in operating performance. We remain focused on
delivering continued improvements, listening to our
customers, and working with stakeholders to ensure
the franchise has the resources needed to respond to
growing demand.
We see opportunities to grow our position in UK rail,
and are pleased to have pre-qualified for the South
Western passenger rail franchise. We have the
resources in place to develop robust bids for franchises
which may be tendered in the coming months.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
continued
ARRIVA WORKS POSITIVELY
TO PROMOTE ACCESSIBLE
PUBLIC TRANSPORT AS A
TRAVELLING CHOICE
TO IMPROVE SERVICES 
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS WE
CONTINUE TO INVEST IN
NEW TICKET MACHINES,
BARRIERS AND STATION
FACILITIES AND SECURITY  Arriva plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2005  11
www.arriva.co.uk
MAINLAND EUROPE
Our mainland European division delivered an excellent
performance, increasing operating profit by 37 per
cent to £48 million before goodwill impairment,
intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items
(2004: £35.1 million) on revenue of £621.2 million
(2004: £525.6 million). Included in the results are 
£19 million of revenue and £2 million of operating
profit from acquisitions in the year. Indexation on
contracts and state-approved fare increases helped 
to limit the impact of increased fuel costs. 
Revenue from our mainland European operations 
has doubled over the last three years. We have
consistently maintained that local authorities in
mainland Europe would introduce competitive
tendering to reduce the cost of providing public
services, in response to legislative and economic
pressures. We see this as the key driver for growth 
for Arriva outside the UK, as the volume of contract
work available to private operators increases. 
This view has been confirmed clearly during the year
across our businesses in northern Europe, where we
have seen a number of significant contract wins. In the
Netherlands, Arriva won the contract to operate all
regional rail services for the next 15 years in the
northern provinces of Friesland and Groningen, with
projected total revenue of around £500 million. We also
won a 120 bus six-year contract in Waterland, north of
Amsterdam, worth £120 million in lifetime revenue.
In Germany, there is now an accelerating programme
of tendering of regional rail services, as we
anticipated when we entered this market in 2004. 
In November we won a ten-year contract, with total
revenue of some £150 million, to operate rail services
in Bavaria between Munich and towns close to the
border with the Czech Republic.
The German bus market is also introducing tendering,
although the pace is slower than in the rail sector. In
February, we acquired Sippel, a bus company with
operations in the Rhine-Main area, where a five-year
programme of tendering has been established. Sippel
is part of a consortium that will operate the team and
FIFA official coaches for the World Cup in Germany in
2006. It will also operate additional buses for
spectators.
Our operations in Scandinavia have also increased
through tender wins. We won new contracts in the
Swedish towns of Helsingborg, Trelleborg and Malmö
and remain the largest bus operator in Denmark with
a good rate of contract retention. Building on our UK
experience of introducing technology has significantly
helped us to win these tenders, where we are
adopting ‘black box’ journey recorders similar to
those we have introduced in the UK, passenger
information systems and CCTV systems. 
OUR NEW TRAIN TIMETABLE 
IN WALES, INTRODUCED IN 
DECEMBER 2005, IS DELIVERING
IMPROVED PERFORMANCE 
FOR CUSTOMERS 12 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
continued
In January 2006 we won our first rail contract in
Sweden, to operate the Pågatåg regional rail services
in the south of the country. The nine-year contract is
initially worth approximately £15 million of revenue
per annum, and has considerable potential for
growth with no significant capital expenditure.
More rail tendering in Denmark is expected in 2006.
We expect to participate fully, building on our
reputation for excellent delivery. Our train punctuality
averages 97.5 per cent and we have received bonuses
for reliability and customer satisfaction throughout
the year.
In southern Europe, we have highlighted Italy as
another key area for development, as the Italian public
transport market is one of the largest in Europe. In
October, we completed the acquisition of eighty per
cent of the SADEM bus businesses, which operate in
the Piemonte and Valle d’Aosta regions of northern
Italy to the west of our other operations. SADEM 
co-managed, with GTT of Turin, all transport for the
2006 Winter Olympics. This involved procurement and
planning of an operation which ran up to 1,000
coaches and buses a day for competitors and
spectators.
Our other bus operations in Italy, SAB and SAF, have
been excellent investments. We now own 60 per cent
of SAF, having purchased a further 11 per cent in
December 2005. We have also increased our
shareholding in other Italian businesses.
In November, the Portuguese Competition Authority
denied clearance of our proposed joint venture with
Barraqueiro Group to combine the Lisbon public
transport operations of the two companies. We are
appealing the decision. 
In the summer we sold part of our Spanish operation
in Galicia for £7.7 million, in line with book value. 
The sale of the more rural operations has allowed the
business to focus on working with the metropolitan
transport authorities to develop our operations in 
La Coru
~
na and Ferrol.
As we expand our operations in mainland Europe we
continue to innovate and gain valuable experience
which strengthens the management of Arriva as a
whole. We were the world’s first transport company
to use palm oil based bio-diesel for rail services, on
several of our trains in Germany. Our introduction of
contactless ‘smart card’ ticketing in Portugal went
well, and is enabling us to gather valuable market
information to tailor services more closely to market
requirements. Our introduction of new trains into
Denmark and Germany was on time and notably free
of teething problems. We are providing experimental
‘on demand’ bus services in some of Italy’s high
mountain valleys such as Alta Valle Brembana. 
As the pace of liberalisation picks up across Europe our
proven expertise and innovative thinking make us well
placed to achieve further growth and market success.
“As we expand our operations in mainland
Europe we continue to innovate and gain
valuable experience which strengthens the
management of Arriva as a whole.”
BOB DAVIES CHIEF EXECUTIVE Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005  13
www.arriva.co.uk
BUS AND COACH
Bus and Coach achieved an operating profit of 
£3 million (2004: £3.2 million) on revenue of 
£13.1 million (2004: £13.8 million). The business
continues to match its resources closely to the needs of
the market place and has, once again, achieved a solid
profit performance with little new capital requirement.
VEHICLE RENTAL
Our vehicle rental business achieved an operating
profit of £10.1 million before exceptional items
(2004: £12.6 million), on revenue of £55.6 million
(2004: £59 million). In common with the rest of the
sector, we experienced downward pressure on daily
hire rates as well as lower residual values and reduced
profits. In February 2006 we sold the business to
Northgate plc.
OUTLOOK
We are driving the business forward with a clear vision
of becoming the leading transport services organisation
in Europe. We expect strong growth to continue
through acquisitions and tendering opportunities. We
have businesses in seven mainland European countries
and are confident that, with our established presence,
Arriva is in a strong position to benefit from the
increasing liberalisation of European transport markets.
We see further opportunities for our UK bus operations
and are committed to bringing forward innovative
approaches to developing this market. 
Arriva has an excellent portfolio of growing, cash-
generative businesses. Our acquired businesses are
delivering profitable growth and we have significant
opportunities for further strategic investment.
BOB DAVIES CHIEF EXECUTIVE
WE HAVE INVESTED IN EASY
ACCESS BUSES, NIGHT BUS
SERVICES AND IMPROVED
SECURITY TO GROW AND
DEVELOP REGIONAL BUS
SERVICES IN MERSEYSIDE
