 Protherics PLC
Annual Report 2007 07
Business review: Chief Executive’s review
Overview
Our ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2007 was a year of increased 
activity and expansion. We completed three corporate transactions 
to expand our development pipeline, adding a second potential 
blockbuster to our critical care pipeline, alongside CytoFab™, while 
doubling the size of our cancer portfolio. With the integration of 
MacroMed now complete, we are making excellent progress with 
the development of OncoGel™ in two lead indications, and also with 
the two in-licensed programmes, Digoxin Immune Fab in pre-eclampsia 
and acadesine in B-CLL. T o support the expanded business, we 
completed a £38.2 million (gross) equity fundraising and reported 
£40.0 million in cash at the year end, the strongest cash position 
in the Company’s history.
Internally, we have focused on scaling up the CytoFab™ 
manufacturing process and delivered, on schedule, our ﬁrst 
commercial scale batches of CytoFab™ to AstraZeneca. This 
triggered the recognition in the last ﬁnancial year of a £10.0 million 
milestone from AstraZeneca, which was received in April 2007. 
We are also working alongside AstraZeneca to align our manufacturing 
strategy with their clinical development plan, and we look forward 
to patient enrolment in their expanded phase 2 programme in the 
second half of 2007. 
We are also making progress with the rest of our pipeline and aim 
to have nine other clinical studies recruiting patients over the next 
twelve months. Despite unexpected regulatory issues with Voraxaze™, 
we are encouraged by recent discussions with the FDA and remain 
convinced of the need for this life saving product, which underpins 
our sales and marketing ambitions in cancer.
The performance of our two marketed critical care products, 
CroFab™ and DigiFab™ remains strong. CroFab™ is used 
increasingly for the treatment of pit viper bites in the US and we 
expect this growth to continue in the current ﬁnancial year. DigiFab™ 
is now the clear market leader in the US digoxin overdose market 
with more than 70% market share. In Europe, we reached an 
agreement with Roche to replace their product, Digitalis Antidot
®
 
with DigiFab™ once marketing approvals have been granted in the 
necessary countries.
R&D pipeline update
New programmes
We have made excellent progress with the clinical development 
of OncoGel™ following the acquisition of MacroMed. OncoGel™ 
is a novel, proprietary formulation of paclitaxel for localised cancer 
therapy, which is designed to achieve high concentrations of the 
cytotoxic drug at the tumour site for up to six weeks. We recently 
announced encouraging preliminary results from a phase 2a study 
in oesophageal cancer and we plan to start a phase 2b study in this 
indication in the second half of 2007. We previously announced the 
start of a phase 1/2 study in primary brain cancer which is expected 
to report in the second half of 2008. 
The in-licensing of intellectual property from Glenveigh to use Digoxin 
Immune Fab in pre-eclampsia provides Protherics with another major 
market opportunity. Pre-eclampsia is a potentially life threatening condition 
of pregnancy, which often requires the early delivery of the baby to resolve 
symptoms and avoid possible death of the mother. This can, in turn, 
necessitate lengthy and costly neonatal intensive care for the baby. There 
are currently no approved products that speciﬁcally treat this condition 
and there are very few in development. 
Andrew Heath Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
We completed three corporate transactions to expand our 
development pipeline, adding a second potential blockbuster to 
our critical care pipeline, alongside CytoFab™, while doubling the 
size of our cancer portfolio.
_0_PTH_ar07_front.indd   7 19/06/2007   14:55:18 Protherics PLC
Annual Report 2007 08
Our critical care portfolio contains two possible 
blockbuster products in phase 2 clinical development, 
CytoFab
TM 
for the treatment of severe sepsis and 
Digoxin Immune Fab for severe pre-eclampsia. 
These products have the potential to save thousands 
of lives and reduce the time spent in intensive care.
...for major markets
 *   Company estimates of total 
potential market size and 
assumes all severe sepsis 
patients receive a $7,000 
course of treatment with 
an5anti-sepsis product
 **   Company estimates of total 
potential market size and 
assumes all patients with 
severe pre-eclampsia receive 
treatment with DigiFab™ 
based on 
~
30 vials/treatment 
at current cost of $480/vial 
 †
   European Society of Intensive 
Care Medicine 2000 estimates
 ††  
Protherics’ estimates
CYTOFAB™: 
SEVERE SEPSIS
US 8 BILLION
MARKET OPPORTUNITY P.A. GLOBALLY*
US 22,000
THE AVERAGE ICU COST PER INDIVIDUAL CASE OF SEPSIS
†
DIGOXIN IMMUNE FAB: 
SEVERE PRE-ECLAMPSIA
US 900 MILLION
MARKET OPPORTUNITY P.A. IN THE US**
US 5,000–$15,000
THE DAILY COST OF MAINTAINING A BABY IN A NEONATAL
††
ICU IN THE US 
_0_PTH_ar07_front.indd   8 19/06/2007   14:55:30 Protherics PLC
Annual Report 2007 09
Business review: Chief Executive’s review continued
New programmes continued
We have made good progress with the phase 2b pre-eclampsia 
study initiated by Glenveigh. We recently reported that the Data 
Safety Monitoring Board has allowed patient recruitment to continue 
following an interim review of the available safety data. Protherics 
has now recruited 34 of the 50 patients planned and we expect to 
report the results of this study in the ﬁrst half of 2008. If the data are 
positive, we intend to hold discussions with potential licensing partners 
for the programme and to determine whether we continue development 
in this indication with Digibind
®
 or progress our DigiFab™ product. 
Following the in-licensing and codevelopment deal with Advancell for 
the use of acadesine in B-CLL, we can report that, with guidance from our 
Clinical Advisory Board, a protocol for a combined single and repeat dose 
phase 1/2 clinical study has been developed. The study is planned to start 
in the second half of 2007 and we expect an early indication of proof of 
concept for acadesine from this open-label study in the ﬁrst half of 2008.
CytoFab™ – for sepsis resulting from uncontrolled infection
CytoFab™ is an anti-TNF-alpha polyclonal Fab product for the treatment 
of sepsis and other TNF-mediated diseases which has been out-licensed 
to AstraZeneca. In November 2006, following consultations with regulators 
in the US and EU, AstraZeneca announced its intention to expand the 
clinical development plan for CytoFab™ in severe sepsis, with the 
addition of a 480 patient phase 2 programme. Data from the phase 2 
study will be used to estimate the number of patients required in the 
phase 3 study and to conﬁrm the appropriate dose, as well as provide 
further supporting efﬁcacy and safety data. The phase 2 programme 
will start in the second half of 2007 and is expected to last up to 
21 months. On completion, AstraZeneca intends to initiate a single 
phase 3 study in the US, Europe and Japan. 
Protherics has successfully scaled up the CytoFab™ manufacturing 
process to a 600 litre batch size which triggered a £10.0 million 
milestone payment from AstraZeneca in March 2007 (received in 
April 2007). We have now also successfully scaled up the process 
to the full 3,000 litre commercial batch size. Under the licensing 
agreement, Protherics may receive up to a further £161.0 million in 
milestone payments, in addition to a 20% royalty on global net product 
sales of CytoFab™ and manufacturing related supply payments.
CytoFab™ revenues of £12.2 million were recognised in the year 
ended 31 March 2007. 
Voraxaze
TM
 – for the control of high dose methotrexate 
therapy in cancer
Voraxaze™ (glucarpidase) contains an enzyme that rapidly breaks 
down methotrexate (“MTX”), a widely used anti-cancer agent. It has 
been developed to prevent or reduce the serious toxicity that can 
result when patients receiving high doses of MTX (“HDMTX”) for the 
treatment of cancer develop renal damage and then have difﬁculty 
eliminating MTX from the body.
On 15 September 2006, we submitted a BLA for Voraxaze™ to the 
FDA in the US. This application was withdrawn on 7 November 2006 
following a request for additional manufacturing-related information. 
Following positive discussions with the FDA, Protherics has agreed 
the additional manufacturing and stability data required and work 
is now underway to generate the necessary data. 
Discussions were also held with the FDA regarding the interaction 
of Voraxaze™ with leucovorin, the standard supportive therapy 
given with HDMTX therapy. The FDA has asked Protherics to 
We are proud to have achieved the successful scale up of the 
CytoFab
TM
 manufacturing process, which utilises some of the 
largest chromatography columns of their kind in the world. 
_0_PTH_ar07_front.indd   9 19/06/2007   14:55:30 Protherics PLC
Annual Report 2007 10
In December 2006, we announced the signing of 
three key agreements to expand our development 
pipeline in critical care and cancer. All three 
programmes will bring significant news flow 
over the next 12–24 months.
…for in-licensing and M&A 
“  The three transactions substantially broaden Protherics’ pipeline and strengthens its leadership position in polyclonal 
antibodies. They bring a second potential blockbuster to our critical care pipeline, alongside CytoFab™, and double the 
size of our cancer portfolio in indications where we can leverage the sales infrastructure planned for Voraxaze™.”
Andrew Heath, CEO
In-license of intellectual property 
from Glenveigh: 
Digoxin Immune Fabs, such as our 
DigiFab
TM
 and GSK’s Digibind®, for 
the treatment of pre-eclampsia
  US$6.5 million cash to Glenveigh 
including repayment on bank debt
  US$5 million in Protherics 
ordinary shares
  Protherics to pay success 
related milestones payments 
and royalties
Acquisition of MacroMed, 
a private US company: 
Lead product OncoGel™ for 
the treatment of oesophageal 
and primary brain cancers
  US$24 million in Protherics 
ordinary shares to 
MacroMed shareholders
  MacroMed major shareholders 
have a twelve month share 
lock-up
  Dr Jacques Gonella joined the 
Protherics’ Board
In-license of acadesine from, and 
codevelopment with, Advancell:
Worldwide, exclusive rights 
for the use of acadesine in the 
treatment of B-CLL
  £0.5 million upfront cash 
consideration to Advancell
  Protherics to pay up to £17.9 
million in development and 
commercialisation milestones
  Protherics to pay ~13% royalty to 
Advancell on global product sales
_0_PTH_ar07_front.indd   10 19/06/2007   14:55:34 11
Business review: Chief Executive’s review continued
Voraxaze
TM
 – for the control of high dose methotrexate 
therapy in cancer continued
undertake a twelve patient study to support a label claim regarding 
the dosing of leucovorin following administration of Voraxaze™ 
to address this interaction.
The FDA has granted Voraxaze™ a Fast Track Designation for the 
rapid and sustained reduction in toxic MTX levels in patients with 
impaired renal function. The FDA has also agreed to Protherics 
resubmitting its application as a rolling submission, starting in early 
2008. This will enable the FDA to review sections of the application 
whilst Protherics collects the additional manufacturing and clinical 
data. The Company is seeking a Priority Review, which would reduce 
the time for the BLA review to six months from ten months from 
submission of the ﬁnal part of the application. If granted, Voraxaze™ 
could be approved in the US towards the end of 2009. 
The FDA has also granted Protherics permission to supply Voraxaze™ 
in the US on a compassionate use basis under a Treatment Protocol, 
prior to marketing authorisation being granted. The FDA has agreed 
for Protherics to charge for its supply, providing for recovery of some 
of the costs associated with the development and supply of Voraxaze™. 
We expect modest revenues from this cost recovery programme which is 
expected to continue until the approval of a BLA in the US. Protherics has 
commenced the supply of Voraxaze™ in the US using AAIPharma Inc as 
its distributor. Voraxaze™ was previously available for compassionate use 
in the US through the National Cancer Institute (“NCI”).
A MAA for the use of Voraxaze™ as an intervention treatment, 
for patients experiencing or at risk of MTX toxicity from delayed 
elimination, was submitted in the EU in July 2005. The EMEA 
requested additional manufacturing data, similar to that requested 
by the FDA, and further data regarding the interaction between 
Voraxaze™ and leucovorin. As these data could not be provided 
within the timeframe available under the Centralised Procedure the MAA 
was withdrawn on 21 May 2007. The Company will consider resubmitting 
an MAA application if the twelve patient leucovorin dosage regimen study 
requested by the FDA is acceptable to the EMEA to address the clinical 
relevance of the leucovorin interaction issue. 
Protherics will continue to supply Voraxaze™ in Europe on a 
named patient basis for intervention use in patients at risk of severe 
or life-threatening methotrexate toxicity due to delayed elimination 
of MTX following HDMTX therapy. 
Two pilot studies to investigate the planned repeated use of 
Voraxaze™ have been initiated and if successful, the data from 
these studies will be used to develop a planned use clinical 
programme to expand the indications for Voraxaze™ into the 
potentially much larger planned repeated use market. 
Voraxaze™ is now available in both the US and Europe on a 
compassionate use basis. In Europe, revenues for the year were 
£1.4 million, compared to £0.8 million in the previous year.
Prolarix
TM
 – targeted therapy for liver cancer and other 
selected solid tumours
Prolarix™ is comprised of a small molecule prodrug, tretazicar, 
which is converted to a highly cytotoxic agent when administered 
with a cosubstrate, caricotamide. The conversion is produced by an 
endogenous enzyme, NQO2, which has elevated activity in certain 
tumour types. 
The FDA has granted Voraxaze™ a Fast Track Designation 
for the rapid and sustained reduction in toxic MTX levels 
in patients with impaired renal function. 
Protherics PLC
Annual Report 2007
_0_PTH_ar07_front.indd   11 19/06/2007   14:55:34 Product focus: Digoxin Immune Fab
For pre-eclampsia
Technology  Ovine polyclonal antibody fragment (“Fab”)
Franchise  Critical Care 
Development status  Phase 2b study in severe pre-eclampsia is ongoing in the US 
with GlaxoSmithKline’s (“GSK”) Digibind® 
Partner   Not applicable
Market    US market alone has the potential to be worth up to $5 billion 
for pre-eclampsia; 
~
$900 million for severe pre-eclampsia
Intellectual property  Worldwide patent applications ﬁ led by Glenveigh for the use of 
Digoxin Immune Fab for the treatment of pre-eclampsia and eclampsia
    Digoxin Immune Fab are complex ovine based biological products 
providing protection from generic competition
Digoxin Immune Fabs, such as Protherics’ DigiFab™ and GSK’s Digibind
®
, may have a role 
in the treatment of pre-eclampsia. 
Pre-eclampsia is a life-threatening complication of pregnancy that occurs in about 5–8% 
of pregnancies in the US. Pre-eclampsia is generally characterised by high blood pressure 
and if left unmanaged can lead to renal failure, eclampsia and death of the mother. It can 
also lead to the early delivery of the baby, resulting in development abnormalities or death 
of the baby. It is a major cause of admission of babies into neonatal intensive care units. 
There are no approved therapies and few products in development to speciﬁ cally 
treat pre-eclampsia. 
The cause of pre-eclampsia has not been conclusively identiﬁ ed. However several 
vasoactive substances called Endogenous Digoxin-Like Factors (“EDLFs”) have been 
found in the blood and placenta of women with pre-eclampsia. These EDLFs rapidly 
disappear following delivery of the baby, coincident with the disappearance of the 
symptoms of pre-eclampsia. Digoxin Immune Fabs have been found to bind to known 
EDLFs in vitro and may therefore have potential application in the treatment of 
pre-eclampsia through their neutralisation and removal from the body.
A phase 2a study with Digibind
®
 has been completed in the US in patients with severe 
pre-eclampsia, after delivery of the baby. Six out of 13 patients required drugs to lower 
blood pressure, compared to none in the Digibind
®
 treatment group. This result was 
statistically signiﬁ cant.
A phase 2b, double blind, placebo-controlled study in 50 women with severe 
pre-eclampsia is ongoing with Digibind
®
 in the US. The primary assessments are the 
use of antihypertensive drugs and renal function. Time to delivery is being assessed 
as a secondary endpoint. Results are expected in ﬁ rst half of 2008.
Protherics PLC
Annual Report 2007 12
_0_PTH_ar07_front.indd   12 19/06/2007   14:55:44 Protherics PLC
Annual Report 2007 13
Prolarix
TM
 – targeted therapy for liver cancer and other 
selected solid tumours continued
A phase 1 study of Prolarix™ is being run under the auspices of Cancer 
Research UK and 23 patients have been treated to date. One patient had 
stable disease after receiving a relatively low dose of Prolarix™ and 
received all six cycles of treatment. The dose of tretazicar has been 
escalated several times but the maximum tolerated dose has not yet 
been reached. Further data should be available before the end of the 
year and the study is now expected to report in the ﬁrst half of 2008.
The manufacture of tretazicar and caricotamide has been scaled up 
successfully and a non-clinical programme has been initiated to 
support a phase 2 study in primary liver cancer which is scheduled 
to start in the ﬁrst half of 2008. 
Angiotensin Therapeutic Vaccine – management of high 
blood pressure (hypertension)
Protherics’ Angiotensin Therapeutic Vaccine is designed to induce 
endogenous antibodies to angiotensin, one of the key hormones involved 
in the regulation of blood pressure. Encouraging non-clinical and clinical 
results suggest that the binding of antibodies to angiotensin may be 
able to produce a clinically signiﬁcant reduction in blood pressure in 
hypertensive patients. 
A new formulation of Angiotensin Therapeutic Vaccine containing 
a novel adjuvant, CoVaccine HT , acquired from CoVaccine BV in 
June 2006, has produced up to a ten-fold improvement in antibody 
response in non-clinical studies. Protherics has completed the 
non-clinical safety testing of the CoVaccine HT adjuvant required 
to support phase 2 development, and manufacturing scale up for the 
adjuvant and formulation development for the vaccine are ongoing. 
Protherics is planning to start a phase 2a study with the new 
formulation in early 2008. The goal of this study will be to conﬁrm 
that the new formulation increases levels of anti-angiotensin 
antibodies in hypertensive patients and to establish whether this 
results in a reduction in blood pressure.
The market for the treatment of high blood pressure is estimated to be in 
excess of US$30 billion per annum, and with positive phase 2a data, our 
Angiotensin Therapeutic Vaccine could provide another major outlicensing 
opportunity for Protherics. Additionally, our adjuvant is attracting 
considerable interest from several possible partners for other programmes.
Marketed products
CroFab™ – pit viper antivenom
CroFab™ is a polyclonal Fab for the management of crotalid 
(pit viper) envenomations. It is currently the only product marketed 
for these bites in the US, where there are around 8,000 pit viper 
bites reported each year. We believe that CroFab™ has captured 
more than half of a potential $70–80 million market opportunity and 
net revenues in the US are shared equally with our distributor, Fougera. 
CroFab™ sales were £14.1 million in the year compared to £11.5 million 
in the previous year. This increase was achieved despite a weaker 
US dollar. The corresponding sales in US dollars were $26.9 million 
against $20.4 million in the prior year, a 32% increase.
DigiFab™ – treatment for digoxin overdose
DigiFab™ is a polyclonal Fab for the treatment of toxicity due to digoxin 
overdose and is now the market leader in this indication in the US. 
The market is estimated to be worth approximately US$25 million 
per annum. Fougera’s sales continue to increase.
Business review: Chief Executive’s review continued
_0_PTH_ar07_front.indd   13 19/06/2007   14:55:47 Protherics PLC
Annual Report 2007 14
Product focus: OncoGel
TM
For oesophageal and primary brain cancers
Technology   Injectable, sustained-released, paclitaxel formulation for 
loco-regional therapy
Franchise  Cancer 
Development status  Phase 2b study in oesophageal cancer is planned to start in second 
half of 2007
    Phase 1/2 study in brain cancer is expected to report in second half 
of 2008
Partner    Protherics has exclusive development and commercialisation rights 
in North America
    Diatos S.A. has exclusive rights outside of North America, 
excluding Korea and Mexico
Market    Market potential estimated at more than US$300 million for both 
indications in the US
Intellectual property  A patent family has been ﬁ led under PCT regulations in all major 
world territories. Patents expected to expire from 2014
OncoGel™ is a novel injectable formulation of paclitaxel, a commonly used cancer 
treatment. It is designed for local administration, where it is able to deliver high 
concentrations of paclitaxel for up to six weeks. OncoGel™ is being investigated in 
two lead indications, oesophageal and primary brain cancers. 
Oesophageal cancer 
The American Cancer Society has estimated that around 15,000 new cases of 
oesophageal cancer are reported in the US each year and the majority of patients present 
with dysphagia (difﬁ culty in swallowing). As a result more than 50% of patients suffer 
serious weight loss as they are unable to eat properly, severely impacting on their quality 
of life. A major goal of current therapy is to control loco-regional disease to enable 
curative resection and improve surgical outcomes. Despite current therapy, there remains 
a large unmet need for a more effective therapy.
A phase 2a study in inoperable oesophageal cancer in which OncoGel™ was given with external 
beam radiation for the treatment of dysphagia has been completed in Europe and the US. In this 
study, where OncoGel™ was injected directly into the primary tumour, it reduced tumour bulk in 
the majority of patients. In the future, this may allow more patients to become candidates for 
surgical resection, in addition to improving the management of their cancer. A phase 2b 
study of OncoGel™ in potentially operable oesophageal cancer patients, in combination 
with chemoradiotherapy will commence in the second half of 2007.
Brain cancer 
Treating brain cancer is extremely challenging due to the inability of most chemotherapeutic 
agents to cross the blood-brain barrier. Where feasible, the primary therapy for patients 
with primary brain tumours is surgical debulking. OncoGel™ is being developed for the 
treatment of primary brain cancers, such as glioblastoma multiforme (“GBM”), either 
post-surgery, by injecting OncoGel™ into the tumour cavity to try to kill residual tumour cells, 
or directly into the tumour in patients with inoperable tumours. About 19,000 cases of 
primary brain cancer are diagnosed in the US each year, of which 60% are the most 
malignant form, GBM. 
OncoGel™ has demonstrated encouraging dose dependent activity in non-clinical models 
of brain cancer. A phase 1/2 study is ongoing in the US to investigate the safety and tolerability 
of OncoGel™ when administered into the cavity produced after a tumour is surgically removed. 
Data from this study will determine the dose to be used in future studies of patients with 
primary or recurrent GBM. Preliminary data is expected to be available from the ﬁ rst dose 
cohort in the second half of 2007 and data from all patients in second half of 2008.
_0_PTH_ar07_front.indd   14 19/06/2007   14:55:59 Protherics PLC
Annual Report 2007 15
DigiFab™ – treatment for digoxin overdose continued
However, as previously reported, Fougera has reduced its orders from 
us to better align its stock holding with sales. As a result, our revenues 
declined to £2.7 million in the year, from £3.8 million. In US dollars, sales 
declined to $5.1 million from $6.7 million, a decrease of 24%. We believe 
that Fougera has now worked through much of its excess inventory and 
it  has increased its orders for the current ﬁnancial year. 
The European market can provide a further opportunity to grow 
DigiFab™ sales and Protherics anticipates receiving marketing 
approval in the UK in the second half of 2007, with subsequent 
approvals in Europe over the following six to twelve months. 
We announced an agreement with Roche Pharmaceuticals to 
replace its niche digoxin antidote product, Digitalis Antidot
®
 with 
DigiFab™ in those countries where it is currently available. DigiFab™ 
will be marketed via our licensee Beacon Pharmaceuticals in most 
mainland European countries and by Protherics in certain other 
countries. In the meantime, we are making DigiFab™ available 
in some EU countries on a named patient basis.
Operations
We are proud to have achieved the successful scale up of the CytoFab™ 
manufacturing process, which utilises some of the largest chromatography 
columns of their kind in the world. This work at our facility in Wales has, 
however, necessitated the rescheduling of the manufacture of FDA 
qualiﬁcation batches of CroFab™ using our new process and we now 
expect approval of the revised CroFab™ process in the US in 2009.
The integration of MacroMed is now complete and we expect to have 
completed construction of our new manufacturing facility in Salt Lake City 
in the third quarter of 2007. We aim to have Good Manufacturing Practice 
material available from the new facility using the commercial process 
for use in the OncoGel™ phase 3 study in oesophageal cancer. 
Following the acquisition of MacroMed and the hiring of additional 
staff to support our expanded activities, headcount has increased from 
213 in April 2006 to 271 in March 2007. 
Business outlook
Our goal is to become a self-sustaining biopharmaceutical business, 
developing and selling our own cancer and critical care products. 
Our recent fundraising, together with the further milestone payment 
received in April 2007 from AstraZeneca on CytoFab™, leaves our 
business in a strong ﬁnancial position. We expect to deliver key newsﬂow 
on all our development programmes over the next 12–24 months 
as our pipeline matures, including data from AstraZeneca’s phase 2b 
study with CytoFab™ in severe sepsis. We plan to launch Voraxaze™ 
in the US in late 2009, assuming regulatory approval, and will 
regain the marketing rights to CroFab™ and DigiFab™ in the US 
from Fougera in late 2010. We continue to explore ways to leverage 
these opportunities to sell our own products in the US and Europe 
in the future.
Andrew Heath
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Our goal is to become a self-sustaining biopharmaceutical 
business, developing and selling our own cancer and critical 
care products. 
Business review: Chief Executive’s review continued
_0_PTH_ar07_front.indd   15 19/06/2007   14:56:02 Product focus: Acadesine
For B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia (“B-CLL”)
Technology  Nucleoside analogue
Franchise  Cancer 
Development status  Clinical proof of concept study in B-CLL patients to begin in second 
half of 2007
Partner    Protherics has global, exclusive development and 
commercialisation rights
    Protherics is developing acadesine together with Advancell
Market    US and EU market potential estimated at 
~
$250 million
Intellectual property  A patent for the use in B-cell proliferative diseases has been 
granted in the EU (2006) and is in prosecution in the US and 
other PCT territories 
   Granted Orphan Drug Designation for B-CLL in the EU
Acadesine is a novel nucleoside analogue that could be a promising new therapy for the 
treatment of B-CLL, a haematological cancer where there is an excess of B–cells. Unlike 
existing chemotherapies for B-CLL, acadesine has been shown ex vivo to selectively kill 
B-cells, whilst having only minimal toxicity to T -cells. This selectivity for B-cells means that 
acadesine has the potential to reduce the risk of serious infection and other side effects 
seen with current chemotherapies. 
B-CLL is the most frequently occurring type of leukaemia in the western world and 
accounts for about 40% of all leukaemias in those over 65 years of age. It is very rare 
in those below the age of 30 years and it follows an extremely variable course with overall 
survival times ranging from months to decades. B-CLL is considered incurable but temporary 
remission can be achieved with chemotherapies such as chlorambucil (Leukeran
®
, GSK), 
ﬂ udarabine (Fludara
®
, Schering) or cladrabine (Leustatin
®
, Ortho Biotech) and the monoclonal 
antibodies, alemtuzumab (MabCampath
®
, Schering) or rituximab (MabThera
®
, Roche), 
either given alone or in combination.
Acadesine was well tolerated in 2,000 patients when previously studied by another 
company in an unrelated indication. We plan to initiate a proof of concept phase 1/2 
clinical study with Advancell in second half of 2007. The study will investigate safety 
of acadesine, pharmacokinetics and B-cell selectivity in cancer patients and is expected 
to report in the second half of 2008.
16
Protherics PLC
Annual Report 2007
_0_PTH_ar07_front.indd   16 19/06/2007   14:56:12 Protherics PLC
Annual Report 2007 17
We ended the ﬁ nancial year with £40.0 million 
in cash, following our £38.2 million fundraising 
in January 2007 and excluding the £10.0 million 
milestone payment from AstraZeneca. Our strong 
cash position, together with our product revenues 
and anticipated CytoFab
TM
 milestones, provide us 
with the resources to progress our expanded pipeline.
...for ﬁ nancial sustainability
REVENUES 2007:
 £31.1 MILLION
(2006: £17.7 MILLION)
GROSS PROFIT 2007:
 £19.8 MILLION
(2006: £6.4 MILLION INCLUDING EXCEPTIONAL COSTS 
OF £1.4 MILLION)
LOSS BEFORE TAX 2007:
 £3.6 MILLION
(2006: £9.6 MILLION)
_0_PTH_ar07_front.indd   17 19/06/2007   14:56:47
