 4 Provalis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Chief Executive Officer’s Review of Operations
In 2004 Provalis’ two key marketed
products remained the diabetes
management diagnostic Glycosal
®
, which
is sold worldwide, and the anti-arthritis
medication Diclomax
®
, which is sold in the
UK and Ireland. In the next few months we
expect that these products will be joined by
in2it™ A1c, our new fully automated
diabetes diagnostic aimed particularly
at the US, European and Japanese
markets. That will be followed by the
launch of Erdotin™, the next generation
pharmaceutical mucolytic product, onto
the UK and Ireland markets early in 2005.
Medical Diagnostics
Glycosal
®
Our distributors continued to order 200–300
Glycosal
®
instruments per month during
2004, with Provalis now having sold over
10,000 instruments. The placement to end
users continues steadily, with more markets
now penetrated. This reinforces our belief
that there is considerable demand for point
of care diabetes management testing and
sets the stage for our introduction of
in2it™ A1c. 
The difficulty with Glycosal
®
over the last
year has been the low “pull-rate” of the
test cartridge as, despite Provalis having
shipped over two million test cartridges to
customers, the usage of the cartridges per
installed instrument has been behind our
expectations. The market research we have
carried out in the US has highlighted that
cartridge use has been impaired by the
perceived lack of ease of use of the test.
The semi-manual nature of the Glycosal
®
test, although not a problem for physicians
at the outset, has proved to be difficult to fit
into nurses’ work flows in busy practices.
This has led to them either changing their
work practices to accommodate use of
the product or, more usually, only using
Glycosal
®
on an infrequent basis. Pleasingly,
at no point have we found that technical
performance or adverse pricing has led
to a cessation of cartridge usage and
a reversion to using laboratory services.
Sales of Glycosal
®
test cartridges were also
unexpectedly influenced by distributor
destocking. This was as a response to
their own lengthy sub-distribution
networks being overstocked due, in part,
to forecasting inaccuracies and the skew
of demand caused by the large, one-off
order to Abbott Laboratories in the first
part of last year. Stock readjustment and
smoother forecasting has now taken place
and sales of the Glycosal
®
test cartridges
have returned to more consistent levels.
Glycosal
®
’s penetration of new markets
continues to provide additional revenues
and we expect our distributors to
concentrate their efforts on such activities
over the next few years. Some of the
markets in which the product has only
recently been introduced, such as India
and China, could be significant.
Having now sold Glycosal
®
for more than
four years through distributors, Provalis
understands the detailed sales and supply
chain for point of care diabetes diagnostics.
We know that physician office practices in
the US, particularly those with one to three
physicians, are keen to begin point of care
testing for glycated haemoglobin. They are
calling for a test that is fully automated,
as well as having the proven technical
competency and cost advantages of
Glycosal
®
, to ensure it fits smoothly
into physicians and nurses’ work flows.
in2it™ A1c is this test. 
in2it™ – Provalis’ new diagnostics platform
in2it™, previously code named G5, is a
fully automated point of care diagnostic
platform with the capability to run many
different diagnostic tests. The first test
developed for the platform is for glycated
haemoglobin or A1c. 
in2it™ A1c has been designed with the
needs of busy diabetes clinics and GP
surgeries in the US in mind and delivers
“real time” results, as accurate as those
obtained from a full clinical laboratory,
in less than seven minutes. Extensive
trials of the product have been carried
out at six centres in the US and Europe,
assessing hundreds of patients using
multiple instruments. Feedback from
physicians and nurses involved in these
trials confirmed that in2it™ A1c meets the
market needs of ease of use, accuracy,
robustness and economic pricing.
Provalis filed all necessary US regulatory
submissions in mid–June 2004 and we
were delighted to receive clearance from
the FDA to sell the product in the US less
than two months later and the grant of
CLIA waiver shortly after. Together, these
will allow the Company to rapidly exploit
the sales potential of in2it™ A1c into all
physicians’ offices and diabetes clinics
and eventually to diabetics for use at home.
We remain on track to supply in2it™ A1c
to the US before the end of 2004 and
remain very excited about the prospects
for the product. Indeed, we are delighted
with the considerable interest in the product
from a number of health management
groups, distributors, pharmacy chains
and pharmaceutical companies that has
exceeded our expectations. We believe
that in2it™ A1c will be the best product
for point of care testing of diabetics that
is commercially available.
Medical Diagnostics R&D
Over the year we expanded the R&D team
by bringing a number of engineering
functions, vital for instrument development,
in house. This will now allow us to
accelerate both the development of
additional tests for use on the system
and the advancement of the instrument
towards “home use” and “over the
counter” versions. However, because this
development work is mainly to be carried
out “in-house”, we expect a reduced R&D
spend over the next two years.
We are focusing the development of
additional tests on those which, like
in2it™ A1c, deal with chronic disease
and, importantly, have attractive levels 
IN2IT™ A1C HAS BEEN DESIGNED WITH THE NEEDS OF BUSY DIABETES
CLINICS AND GP SURGERIES IN THE US IN MIND AND DELIVERS “REAL TIME”
RESULTS, AS ACCURATE AS THOSE OBTAINED FROM A FULL CLINICAL
LABORATORY, IN LESS THAN SEVEN MINUTES.
Dr Philip Gould, Chief Executive Officer Provalis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5
“Test results from
the in2it™ A1c
diagnostic product
have been very
positive, exceeding
our expectations
in terms of accuracy
and ease of use”
We expanded the R&D team over the year,
allowing us to accelerate the development 
of additional tests for the in2it™ platform.
Provalis will rapidly sell in2it™ A1c into
physicians’ offices and diabetes clinics. 6 Provalis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Medical Diagnostics R&D (continued)
of reimbursement for the physician,
so giving them repeat usage and
a commercial return.
Our goal throughout the next two years will
be to introduce two new tests per year for
use on the in2it™ platform, with the first
intended to be for high sensitivity C-reactive
protein (“hsCRP”), for which US regulatory
filings are anticipated in the first half of
calendar 2005. hsCRP is a key measure of
the level of inflammation in coronary arteries
and is used in monitoring cardio-vascular
disease. A growing body of evidence
suggests that this inflammation plays
a key role in the biological processes
that can lead to the rupture of fatty deposits
in blood vessels which then hinders the
flow of blood to the heart, and is a leading
cause of heart attacks.
In addition, Provalis is developing a
revolutionary cartridge for use on the in2it™
platform that will conduct a number of
simultaneous diagnostic tests from a single
drop of blood. This work, which utilises
the micro-fluidics technology we are
developing for our future OTC platform,
Micro G, is ongoing with a technology
partner. We anticipate that this new
cartridge will be available from 2006, and
will accelerate the development of in2it™
into the point of care workstation of
choice for busy healthcare professionals.
Pharmaceuticals
The sales of our portfolio of prescription
drugs, which are sold in the UK and Ireland
through our own GP and hospital sales
force, advanced by 5% to £11.4m.
2004 was the first full year of operation
of our representative sales force in the
Republic of Ireland, where sales of €0.8m
were achieved – an excellent result.
Diclomax
®
Diclomax
®
, our lead pharmaceutical
product, produced a solid performance
in the year with sales of £6.1m and remains
highly profitable. Through marketing and
sales initiatives, Diclomax
®
’s market share
in the “plain” non-steroidal market has
continued to increase, and is now more
than 5%. Although the value of this market
segment has declined due to competition
from the newer COX2 inhibitors, we are
carrying out further sales initiatives and
new marketing programmes detailing
the benefits of Diclomax
®
to counter this
competition and we expect another solid
year of Diclomax
®
sales in the year ahead.
During the year we gained marketing
approval for Diclomax
®
in Ireland. Our Irish
sales force began detailing the product in
the fourth quarter and we are now seeing
an acceleration of the growth of sales as
physicians become aware of the benefits
of the product.
Other pharmaceutical products
The market for Calceos
®
, our product used
to treat and prevent osteoporosis, was
enhanced by the NICE recommendation
to limit the use of hormone replacement
therapy, which is used to prevent the
same condition. Provalis responded by
raising the priority of the product within
our own sales force and also using an
additional contracted sales force to
promote Calceos
®
. This, coupled with
a price reduction programme that we
shared with our suppliers, resulted in
a significant increase in the prescription
volume of the product and a growing
market share. We expect a strong year
for Calceos
®
in 2005 on the back of this
new marketing effort.
The Dr Falk range continued to sell steadily
in both the UK and Ireland and returned
sales of £3.6m. In particular we recorded
strong sales of Ursofalk
®
(£2.2m) and
Budenofalk
®
(£0.4m). We do, of course,
cease selling these products at the end
of 2004.
Erdotin™
In April we signed a distribution
agreement with Edmond Pharma for
the UK and Ireland rights to Erdotin™,
a second generation oral mucolytic.
The agreement also contains an option
for Provalis to acquire the product at any
time after the third year of sale. Erdotin™
(active ingredient erdosteine) will be used
to treat respiratory disease such as chronic
bronchitis and emphysema, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (“COPD”)
and conditions like glue ear in children.
Although products containing erdosteine
have been available in a number of
European markets for some time, the lack
of reimbursement in the UK made the
market unattractive. This changed when the
UK authorities reinstated reimbursement on
mucolytic agents in March 2003. Erdotin™
is currently undergoing European
registration, and launch of the product
is anticipated at the beginning of 2005,
making Erdotin™ one of the first of this
next generation of products available
in the UK.
This launch of Erdotin™ should coincide
with the time that we cease to distribute
the older Dr Falk range of products.
We expect the sales of Erdotin™ to grow
steadily as we promote it to doctors and
respiratory consultants such that, in the
medium term, it will generate profit to
replace that previously generated by the
sale of the Dr Falk range.
Vaccine technology licensing
Provalis conducted vaccine research and
development from 1998 and identified a
number of recombinant protein antigen
vaccine candidates to prevent common
infections. However, given the significant
costs required to fund the evaluation of
lead candidates into clinical trials, the
Group decided in mid-2002 that progress
of these programmes was beyond its
resources and that a number of the
programmes, together with all associated
rights, should be offered to potential
partners. Since that time the Group has
been reviewing proposals from a series
of interested parties and has now
concluded agreements on several of
them. In particular, our vaccine candidates
relating to haemophilus influenzae and
moraxella chatarrhalis antigens are
licensed to GlaxoSmithKline for the
development of an otitis media vaccine,
and an option to our Group B streptococcus
antigens programme has been granted to
Chiron Vaccines.
We are delighted to have reached these
agreements with these major worldwide
players in vaccine development.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review of Operations
(continued)
WE EXPECT THE SALES OF ERDOTIN™ TO GROW STEADILY SUCH THAT,
IN THE MEDIUM TERM, IT WILL GENERATE PROFIT TO REPLACE THAT
PREVIOUSLY GENERATED BY SALES OF THE DR FALK RANGE. Provalis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 7
The market for Calceos
®
was enhanced by
the NICE recommendations. We expect a
strong 2005.
Diclomax
®
had sales of £6.1m in the year,
and remains highly profitable.
“Pharmaceutical
sales advanced
to a record
£11.4m” 8 Provalis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Chief Executive Officer’s Review of Operations
(continued)
“Feedback
from
physicians
involved in
the trials
confirm
in2it™ meets
the market
needs
of ease of
use, accuracy,
robustness
and economic
pricing”
Vaccine technology licensing (continued)
Collectively these provide long term
upside to our investors, potentially
involving multi-million pounds worth
of milestones and royalty payments.
Outlook
We remain very excited by the imminent
supply of in2it™ A1c to the US, where
we are seeing a true first for the
Company. We have taken a product from
conception through development to
regulatory approval, have developed
suppliers for low cost sourcing and
will be selling a product for diabetes,
a disease described as being at epidemic
proportions, into the world’s biggest
market, with our own sales organisation.
The forthcoming year should therefore
be transitional for the Group in terms of
diagnostics sales. With clearance from
the FDA obtained, and CLIA waiver now
granted, we fully expect to make our first
sales of in2it™ onto the US market in the
autumn. Given the significant interest we
have had from a number of parties thus
far, we anticipate that the early part of
the launch cycle may be limited by
product supply and we have already
brought forward the extension of our
manufacturing assembly and filling
capacity and are developing plans
to accelerate product supply.
At the same time we will manage a period
of transition for our Pharmaceuticals
business as we cease distributing the
older Dr Falk products and begin to focus
on our new primary care range of products. 
Our challenge remains the acquisition of
new products for the business, but with
the cessation in November of the payments
to Parke Davis for Diclomax
®
, and the
purchase option negotiated for Erdotin™,
we are now far more in control of our
future with our Pharmaceuticals business
than our previous pure distribution
business allowed. As the wave of
international consolidation of the
pharmaceutical industry continues,
we see good opportunities for the
business to develop both organically
and through the acquisition of products. 
With the operation now established in
the UK and Ireland, we are looking for
opportunities to take this business into
mainland Europe, either through an
alliance or joint-venture.
Current trading
Our sales in both businesses so far this new
financial year are meeting our expectations.
In our Pharmaceuticals business,
Diclomax
®
has entered a new marketing
cycle focused on countering the challenge
from the new COX2 inhibitors. Additionally,
the targeted promotion of Calceos
®
,
has resulted in increased market sales
growth. Sales of both products continue
to be strong.
In Medical Diagnostics, sales have got off
to a solid start and we continue to see
modest advances in the sale of Glycosal
®
to our two distributors. Bio-Rad continues
to make progress with the product largely
outside of the US, whilst Cholestech gains
most of its sales from the US. We are
noting improving sales to India, some
slightly greater volumes to Japan and
further South American countries coming
on stream. 
Following the recent US FDA 510K
clearance and grant of CLIA waiver for
in2it™ A1c, we have begun promoting
the product in the US. As part of the
launch programme, we unveiled in2it™
A1c at the American Diabetes Educators
Meeting in mid-August where interest from
potential distributors, health management
organisations, pharmacy chains,
pharmaceutical companies and healthcare
professionals was considerable. 
This level of interest has been sustained
since then, and indeed we have already
received firm and indicative orders
for over 1,700 systems, with further
distributors in the US being established
and new orders arriving steadily. This is
ahead of our expectations and we are
presently reviewing market forecasts.
We are in the final stages of completing
the manufacture of the launch batches
of product, which remain on track to be
shipped shortly, an event which will be a
further significant milestone for the Group.
Dr Philip Gould
Chief Executive Officer Provalis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 9
WE REMAIN VERY EXCITED BY THE IMMINENT SUPPLY OF IN2IT™ A1C ONTO
THE US MARKET. WE BELIEVE THIS PRODUCT WILL BE THE BEST POINT OF
CARE DIABETES TESTING PRODUCT COMMERCIALLY AVAILABLE.
Sales of Diclomax
®
are accelerating in Ireland
as physicians become aware of the benefits
of the product.
