 Overview
Governance
Financial statements
02
Proventec plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Overview
Governance
Financial statements
The roll out of our Osprey 
operations in other 
countries is a major part 
of our strategic plan for 
growth and continues 
apace, with new routes  
to market.
Chairman’s Statement
Peter Teerlink
This has been a significant year for Proventec and I 
am pleased to report the continued expansion of the 
Group, particularly following the acquisition of an 
80% stake in Contico Manufacturing Limited 
(“Contico”) in June 2007. 
Operations
The demand for the technology developed by 
OspreyDeepclean Limited (“Osprey”) continues to 
grow around the world. The company has designed  
a range of proprietary dry steam cleaning equipment 
and tooling specifically for the healthcare sector, 
which has positioned Osprey as a recognised leader 
in this field and brought significant expansion 
opportunities to the Group. Osprey’s unique 
equipment is the only validated technology that has 
the full data to substantiate that we can achieve a 
viable method of surface disinfection, to support 
proactive infection prevention and control, yet which 
allows patients to remain on the wards. The roll out 
of our Osprey operations in other countries is a major 
part of our strategic plan for growth and continues 
apace, with new routes to market. 
In our coatings division, the Magma flame 
retardant business is continuing its work with  
other manufacturers to develop new products. 
In particular discussions are under way for a 
commercial collaboration with a European  
timber treatment company, a division of a major 
European conglomerate, which will distribute 
Magma’s products.
Alternext
In December last year, after conversations with some 
of our major mainland European investors, we took 
the decision to dual list the Group on Alternext, a 
market operated by NYSE Euronext, in Paris. With our 
shareholders’ support, the listing was completed and 
Proventec was admitted to trading on 22 May 2008. 
Proventec was the first AIM company to dual list  
on Alternext and the Group has already witnessed 
increased investor interest from outside the UK. We 
believe this listing will continue to give Proventec 
access to mainland European capital markets which, 
in turn, gives the Group greater flexibility.
As part of this exercise Proventec raised £4.06 million  
in January by an issue of 8.5% convertible/redeemable 
Loan Notes. These funds will be used to further expand 
the Group’s trading activities during 2008. We are 
seeking to acquire the controlling interest in a 
complementary, small equipment manufacturing 
company in Germany. We are also looking at other 
specialist cleaning technologies in the Benelux countries. 
As part of our dual listing it is our intention to list the 
Loan Notes on the Alternext market.
The Group’s share price is now quoted both in 
pounds sterling on AIM and euros on Alternext.  
Our website www.proventecplc.com carries direct 
stock market feeds from both markets.
Appointment
In September last year, Nick Whiteley, an experienced 
commercial lawyer, joined Proventec as Company 
Secretary. Nick is an important addition to our 
management team and his experience in European 
business legislation has already proved invaluable to 
the Group. 
Finally I would like to thank the Group’s employees 
for their hard work in driving the Group forward 
during the last year. The Board is pleased with the 
Group’s development and I look forward to reporting 
further growth in 2008 and 2009. 
Peter Teerlink
Chairman
