 3 Report and accounts 2010 | Proventec plc
Chief Executive’ s Report
Chief Executive’s Report
The financial statements cover the eighteen month trading period 
from 1 April 2009 to 30 September 2010.  The balance sheet at 
30 September 2010 does not reflect the re-construction embodied 
in the Scheme of Arrangement that was approved by the two 
meetings of the Loan Note holders and the Shareholders which 
were held on 23 November 2010. The Scheme was formally 
sanctioned in the High Court, Chancery Division, on Monday 6 
December 2010.
The Chairman has explained the practical effects of the Scheme 
of Arrangement which has provided the Company with a more 
appropriate balance sheet for its business and a greatly reduced 
debt burden.
The pro forma balance sheet reflects the changes resulting from 
the approval to the Scheme of Arrangement as if they had been 
sanctioned on 30 September 2010.  The pro forma balance sheet 
reflects:
•	 	 the	changes	to	the	loan	note	debt	reduced	from	£14,880,210	
to	£7,000,000
•	 	 the	coupon	reduced	from	8.5%	per	annum	to	4%	payable	and	
3%	in	additional	loan	notes
•	 	 the	extension	of	the	repayment	date	from	31	December	2012	
to	30	September	2015
•	 the	removal	of	the	24.5%	premium	due	on	redemption
•	 	 the	conversion	of	loan	note	debt	of	£7,880,210	and	other	
debts	of	£6,006,655	into	equity	at	a	price	of	57	pence
•	 	 the	forgiveness	of	debt	comprising	unpaid	loan	note	and	other	
loan	interest	of	£1,973,000
This restructuring of the Group’s balance sheet puts it in a better 
position to deal with the financial pressures of trading out of the 
recession.  As well as the restructuring of the balance sheet, your 
Board has sought to restructure the business and has disposed of 
two non-core parts of the Group.
The Magma coatings business was acquired at the time of the 
reverse takeover in 2005 and it has developed into a niche 
specialist coatings business.  It was the Board’s intention to 
sell this business in the next couple of years after it had grown 
further, however an opportunity arose to sell it to the company 
that manufactures Magma’s products and the Board successfully 
concluded the disposal of Magma just before the end of September 
2010.  The price was realistic given Magma’s trading profile and 
the potential for its products but the business had been valued at a 
considerably higher figure at the time of its acquisition in 2005.
The Board also sanctioned the disposal of the Company’s 60% 
holding in CryoJet Industrial Services BV.  At the time of the 
acquisition of this stake in September 2008 the Board believed 
that CryoJet would be synergistic with the Group’s other activities 
David Chestnutt
and would form the basis of the Proventec Industrial specialist 
cleaning division but this ambition was not realised.  A number of 
management and operational issues caused the Board to reassess 
its view on the potential of CryoJet and after a number of meetings 
with the original management team in which no headway was 
made, the Board decided to mitigate its losses and sold the 
Company’s stake at a loss.
As a result of these disposals and actions the Board has embarked 
on a restructuring of Proventec’s operations base in The Netherlands 
and has greatly reduced the scope of its business.  This restructuring 
exercise has almost been completed and Guido Schoenmakers, our 
Group Operations Director who has carried out this task on behalf 
of the Group, will be leaving the Company in the New Year.  We 
are most grateful for all Guido’s efforts on behalf of the Group over 
the last six years and wish him well in his new career.
In the UK the Company has completed the transfer of the Osprey 
businesses and Proventec Healthcare to its logistical base in 
Redruth, Cornwall, from where Contico Manufacturing and 
Spraychem operate.
The Osprey businesses are to be rebranded as OspreyFrank to 
reflect the close development and manufacturing links with Frank 
GmbH, the Company’s German-based subsidiary.
The trading results for the eighteen months have been affected 
by a number of factors, both internal and external.  The trading 
environment has continued to be difficult although towards the end 
of this year there are some small signs that the Company’s markets 
may be picking up.
The sales of janitorial products have been fairly flat and margins 
have been difficult to maintain. This was due to a combination of 
the highly competitive domestic market and the weakness of Sterling 
against the US dollar and the Euro, the currencies with which much 
of Proventec’s product range is purchased.
During the period covered by these accounts Proventec Healthcare 
has been successful in winning significant tenders from the UK NHS 
Supply Chain and the Scottish NHS.  Both contracts have yet to 
reach their full potential in terms of sales into the respective NHS 
sectors in England and Scotland but they are an indication of the 
Group’s ability to service this demanding sector.
The Group’s equipment sales from OspreyFrank have been affected 
by the slow down in capital purchasing by European industry.  The 
Company has used this time to improve the development of its dry 
steam range but the anticipated upturn in the development of the 
dry steam market has been put on hold. This is due not only to the 
general economic conditions but also to the delay in publication of 
the results of the trial of Proventec’s equipment following the NHS 
Overview    Proventec plc | Report and accounts 2010 4
Chief Executive’s Report
sponsored Clinical Trial in the Durham & Darlington Trust, which 
started in October 2009 and was completed in February 2010.
The Board understands that publication of the report has been held 
back, together with reports on a number of other NHS initiatives, 
due to policy decisions within the NHS.  While the Company has 
not seen the results of the report, the Board is led to believe that the 
report will endorse the efficacy and use of dry steam as a cleaning 
medium in patient contact areas.  Proventec already knows that 
regular cleaning with dry steam reduces bacteria, resulting in 
a higher standard of hygiene in the hospital environment and 
potentially will be of real benefit in the fight to reduce healthcare 
acquired infections.
While the time taken to penetrate the healthcare sector is frustrating, 
OspreyFrank has made progress in developing and supplying 
industrial dry steam cleaning solutions to the food manufacturing 
sector where cleaning and hygiene standards are valued highly.
The Company has completed the first ‘cleaning in place’ system 
on a food manufacturing assembly line for one of the largest 
international food manufacturers. The line has been successfully 
installed and commissioned and your Board believes will lead to 
more business from this customer and this sector.
In conjunction with Proventec’s partner, OspreyFrance, the Company 
has also been working with a major robotics machine manufacturer 
which has installed Proventec’s dry steam cleaning equipment in an 
automated cleaning line for a leading manufacturer of motor bikes.  
The steel surface for painting has to be prepared to the highest 
standard of cleanliness before painting and dry steam has solved 
this problem, given that solvents are now being phased out and 
banned in the industrial environment.
Such developments prove that dry steam generation has a future 
as a general and specialist cleaning medium but it has not yet 
achieved universal acceptance. However, I am pleased to note 
that more and more companies in the food manufacturing sector 
are now looking at dry steam as a possible solution to solving their 
cleaning requirements in new industrial installations.
The comparison between figures from one period to the other 
is made more difficult by the removal of the figures for the 
discontinued operations and the resultant changes to gross profit.
Taking the reported turnover figures and adjusting them for the 
turnover achieved in the accounting periods by the discontinued 
operations, shows a 3% fall year on year. However the gross 
profit in the two periods shows a fall of 17% which reflects the 
challenging trading environment
The accounts also include a charge for interest paid and payable 
of £2.36 million. As a result of the adoption of the Scheme of 
Proventec Healthcare has 
been successful in winning 
significant tenders from the 
UK NHS Supply Chain 
and the Scottish NHS
Overview    5 Report and accounts 2010 | Proventec plc
Chief Executive’s Report
Arrangement, this will produce a write back of interest payable 
in the next period’s accounts of those amounts of interest that 
have been waived and forgiven, which at 30 September 2010 
amounted to approximately £1.7 million.
Following the restructuring of the Group there is further substantial 
impairment of those assets and the cost of investments acquired as 
part of the reverse takeover in 2005.  With the benefit of hindsight 
and in the context of a post recession economy, it is appropriate 
to impair and write down those costs and the resultant goodwill 
arising thereon.  This is entirely consistent with International 
Financial Reporting Statements and reflects the value attributed to 
the rescheduling of our long and short-term debt as set out in the 
Scheme of Arrangement.
Outlook
While the current trading shows some limited signs of a better 
2011, the outlook for Proventec has been vastly improved as 
a result of the adoption of the Scheme of Arrangement and 
your Board will continue to work hard for the benefit of all our 
shareholders.
I would like to thank Peter Teerlink who resigned from the Board 
with effect from the date of adoption of the Scheme.  Peter became 
Chairman following the reverse takeover of the Group in 2005 and 
has been a great champion of the business.  He had close links 
with InnoConcepts, our former largest shareholder, which proved to 
be a good relationship that worked for the benefit of both Groups 
until the change of control in InnoConcepts in late 2009, and I wish 
him well for the future.
Finally, may I also express my personal thanks to my fellow Board 
members, colleagues and our lawyers, Pinsent Masons, for all their 
support in what has been a most interesting and challenging time.
David Chestnutt
Chief Executive 
19 January 2011
The restructuring of the  
Group’s balance sheet puts  
it in a better position to deal 
with the financial pressures of 
trading out of the recession.
Overview   
