 Proventec plc
 Annual report and accounts 2009 Overview         
02
2008 has proved to be a difﬁ cult year for Proventec, along 
with many other businesses.
Fundraising
At the beginning of July 2009, the Group successfully raised 
£1.5 million before expenses, subject to ratiﬁ cation at a General 
Meeting.  At the General Meeting held on 31 July 2009, the 
appropriate resolutions were passed to allow the placing of 
3,000,000 shares at 50 pence.
These funds will strengthen the Company’s balance sheet and 
support the Group’s working capital position. It will also provide 
capital to complete the development of a new industrial dry 
steam machine that will retail at less than half the price of existing 
technologies and which we aim to bring to the market by the end 
of the year.
Operations
The Board had anticipated the continued expansion of Osprey’s 
steam based technology, specialist cleaning accessories and 
cleaning protocols. These products had achieved considerable 
commercial success in the healthcare sector at the end of 2007 
and the ﬁ rst quarter of 2008. 
During the second half of the ﬁ nancial year, uncertainty in the 
market and the cash constraints placed on many businesses, 
including those in the public and private healthcare sector, caused 
a number of companies to cancel, postpone or delay their capital 
expenditure plans. This, combined with the declining value of 
sterling against the Group’s two major trading currencies – the 
euro and US dollar – at the beginning of the year, has presented 
many challenges.
As a result of the downturn, Proventec’s operations in Europe 
have likewise seen a decline in activity. 
Despite these difﬁ culties, Proventec completed two strategic 
acquisitions, which complement the Group’s current offering 
and diversiﬁ es the services it provides. The Group acquired a 
60% stake in Frank GmbH in August 2008. Frank is a German 
manufacturer of small high pressure hot water washers and 
steam equipment. Proventec also acquired a 60% stake in 
CryoJet Industrial Services BV, a Dutch specialist dry ice cleaning 
company in October. These businesses are seen as long term 
strategic acquisitions and provide the Group with a high quality 
engineering resource and a compatible specialist industrial 
cleaning service provider. Both companies will be fundamental to 
the Group’s future development.
AIM and Alternext
The stock markets have been affected by the economic downturn 
and liquidity has been poor for most small cap companies.
Proventec has continued to try and re-base its balance sheet and 
part of this process was to complete the listing of the Group’s 
Convertible Loan Stock on the Alternext market which was a wish 
of the Group’s bond holders and their advisers. 
Following discussions with Proventec’s advisers and mindful 
of the requirements of the International Financial Reporting 
Statements (“IFRS”) concerning the potential impairment of our 
Goodwill, the Group sought to mitigate the effect of this on its 
ﬁ nancial statements by cancelling the Share Premium account 
and crediting this to distributable reserves.  At the same time 
the Board proposed a reduction in the Share Capital and both of 
these proposals were sanctioned in the High Court in February 
this year.
Employees
In February Glyn Hirsch, a Non Executive Director, stepped down 
from the Board because of pressure from his other commitments.  
Glyn had been a director of the company since 2001 and my 
immediate predecessor as Chairman. On behalf of the Board, I 
would like to thank him for his hard work and commitment to 
the Group and we wish him all the best for the future.
I would like to express the Board’s thanks to all of the employees in 
the Group for their support and hard work in these difﬁ cult times.  
Outlook
In these market conditions, Proventec continues to take positive 
steps to expand its offerings, ensure its ﬁ nancial stability and 
maintain momentum. The Board is conﬁ dent of the long term 
outlook for the Group.
Peter Teerlink
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
Peter Teerlink
Proventec 
completed two 
strategic acquisitions
which complement the 
Group’s current offering 
and diversiﬁ es the services 
it provides.
Proventec R&A 09 Stage 2.indd   4 18/8/09   10:35:55
