 Proventec plc
 Annual report and accounts 2009 Overview         
04
The year to 31 March 2009 has been challenging, beginning 
with the currency ﬂ uctuations in the exchange rates from 
July 2008 onwards between the pound and the US dollar and 
euro, followed by the decline of the UK’s trading markets.
Despite these factors which were beyond the Board’s control, 
the Group has tried to manage the growth and development 
of Proventec.
Financial review
• Turnover £15.4 million (2008 £14 million)
• Gross proﬁ t maintained at over 43%.  
• EBITDA (before IFRS impairment) £19,000 (2008 £2.51 million) 
In February 2009, as part of the Group’s undertaking to 
restructure its Balance Sheet and in anticipation of the year’s 
trading results, the Board sought and received permission from 
the High Court and shareholders, to cancel its Share Premium 
Account and to reduce its Share Capital. This resulted in the 
transfer of £32.1 million from those accounts to the Proﬁ t and 
Loss Account as distributable reserves. 
In accordance with IFRS, Proventec conducted an impairment 
review of its assets, particularly Goodwill, the value of its 
investments and the recoverability of certain debts, and has 
written down the value of those assets by £26.7 million. The 
Group’s reserves total has increased from a deﬁ cit of £855,000 to 
a credit of £3.44 million.
The Group results at the half year to 30 September 2008 reﬂ ected 
a loss which, in normal trading conditions, the Board would have 
expected to reverse in the second half of the year. However in 
November 2008, companies began to de-stock and looked to 
cost savings in all areas of their business. As such, conﬁ dence 
amongst many UK companies was severely dented.
Operational review 
OspreyDeepclean
Proventec had embarked on an expansion in personnel in 2008, 
to meet what the Group saw as a breakthrough in its sales 
strategy. The Group’s overhead structure was developed to meet 
the anticipated growth in our business but unfortunately the 
Group did not see this predicted growth. There was a marked 
decline in sales of the Group’s specialist dry steam cleaning 
equipment, which is a capital purchase to most of its customers. 
At the same time Proventec’s major Italian suppliers requested 
improved payment terms because of their own trading difﬁ culties, 
making the task of managing the business even more difﬁ cult. 
The Group has implemented cost saving measures and is 
reorganising its businesses to deal with the current downturn 
in the market and during the last few months there has been 
renewed interest from customers in Proventec’s products. While 
short term forecasting remains difﬁ cult, the Board is increasingly 
conﬁ dent that the Group’s business offering will ensure success 
in the longer term and the Board is looking forward to the roll out 
of its strategic business plan over the next few years.
Contico Manufacturing
Contico Manufacturing has continued to source new products 
to enhance its range of janitorial supplies. In July last year the 
company purchased a ﬂ oor pad cutter to increase its range 
of Contico Superpads. A new fully automated screen printing 
machine has just been delivered and will be operational from 
mid-August.
The company’s commitment to customer service will be further 
enhanced by the company’s new interactive website for 
customers, launched in July this year. 
Chief Executive’s Report
David Chestnutt
“
While short and even medium 
term trading may present a 
challenge, the Group is conﬁ dent 
that the long term prospects of 
the business remain positive.
”
Proventec R&A 09 Stage 2.indd   6 18/8/09   10:35:55
