 PROVENTEC 04 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
c HIef exec UTIVe’S re POr T
I am pleased to report the results for the year 
ended 31 March 2007. The numbers tell only 
part of the story but do not reflect the time 
and hard work that has gone into the Group’s 
development over the last 12 months.
financial Highlights
In the year to 31 March 2007, highlights of 
the Group’s results included:
Turnover up to £4.96 million (2006:  
£3.4 million).
EBITDA increased to £2.26 million (2006: 
£1.17 million).
Profit after tax increased to £1.07 million 
(2006: £474,000).
The Group’s cash balances stood at £5.4 
million at the end of March but since then 
£3.7 million has been utilised as part of the 
consideration for Proventec’s acquisition of  
an 80% interest in Contico Manufacturing 
Limited. To supplement our cash balances, on 
29 June 2007, we placed 11,500,000 shares 
at 9 pence raising £1,003,950 (net of 
expenses). 
Hygiene
Sales of the OspreyDeepClean range of 
Industrial and Commercial steam cleaning 
machines increased by more than 30% on  
an annual basis.
Under the leadership of Thomas Stuecken, 
OspreyDeepClean operates through three 
trading companies:
UK sales – based in Cheltenham.
International sales (excluding Benelux and 
Germany) – based in Cheltenham.
Benelux and Germany – based in 
r otterdam.
The growth in sales has been encouraging 
but we are especially pleased with the 
establishment and initial growth in the north 
American market which has formed a sound 
platform for further expansion. The Group  
is over half way to its target of developing 15 
new distributors to cover the United States. 
Sales of industrial steam cleaning machines  
in the United States grew from a standing 
start to more than £400,000 in the year  
and further growth has been identified and 
targeted for the present year.
In February, we entered into a joint venture 
with a partner in France and although it  
was too late in the financial year to impact  
on the results to 31 March 2007, there  
are encouraging signs that in this current  
year, the trading results will meet your  
Board’s expectations.
•
•
•
•
•
•
Sales in the Czech r epublic grew by 20%  
in the year and new distributors in Poland, 
Hungary and Singapore were appointed, 
extending the global coverage of 
OspreyDeepClean.
In the netherlands, the marketing approach 
was restructured to complement the UK 
trading model and the range of machines has 
now been extended to 20, with the number 
of distributors increased to 14.
new specialist accessories for the healthcare 
market have been developed, tested and 
patented and these will be available from the 
autumn of this year. 
In the UK, the continuing healthcare studies, 
in conjunction with the University College 
London Hospital, are nearing successful 
completion. Many of these tests are being 
replicated and approved in Europe by  
TnO, the Dutch organisation for applied 
scientific research.
OspreyDeepClean has also received approval 
and preferred supplier status with a number 
of large organisations, including Carillion  
Pall Mall, Mitie, Interserve MacLellan and 
many others.
Our steam cleaning equipment has also been 
adopted by Carnival, the world’s largest cruise 
line company, and other cruise lines, including 
Fred Olsen and norwegian Shipping.
Through attendance at trade shows and 
similar events, we have continued to promote 
and champion the awareness of steam  
as an efficient and cost effective cleaning 
medium and as the cleaning system of  
choice in the fight to eradicate  
healthcare acquired infections.
Since the end of the year, we have completed 
an acquisition of an 80% interest in Contico 
Manufacturing Limited (“Contico”), a 
manufacturer and distributor of cleaning and 
hygiene equipment and liquid dispensing 
systems, for £5.5 million. We financed this 
with borrowings of £1.8 million from our 
bankers, r oyal Bank of Scotland, and cash 
from our own resources. 
Proventec’s aim is to be 
the leading provider of 
cutting edge hygiene 
solutions that are based 
on steam technologies 
and preventative 
coatings.  05 PROVENTEC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
Our steam cleaning systems eradicate and 
combat the spread of common food bacteria, 
staphylococcus aureus, salmonella and HAI 
including Mr SA and clostridium difficile.
TOWAr DS CLEAnEr  
FOOD Pr OCESSInG
MAr KET OPPOr TUnITY 
 
Hygiene solutions
Industrial steam cleaning equipment 
provided by OspreyDeepClean is used to 
thoroughly clean conveyor systems in UK 
and US food factories. PROVENTEC 06 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
c HIef exec UTIVe’S re POr T
c OnTInUed
Contico has an excellent reputation in the  
UK cleaning equipment and materials sector, 
ranked thirteenth largest and fifth most 
profitable (independent survey, May 2006). 
The company operates from an 80,000 
square foot site in Cornwall and services  
over 1,000 customer accounts from its  
range of over 2,000 products. We see 
Contico as providing routes to market  
for our OspreyDeepClean product range by 
enhancing our UK distributor network, and 
the additional buying strength and logistics 
operation will provide improved efficiencies 
for the roll out of OspreyDeepClean’s UK  
sales over the next few years. The senior 
management in Contico, Vernon Holmes and 
Philip Macey, retain 20% of Contico and bring 
with them to the Group more than 20 years 
and 12 years of experience at Contico, 
respectively.
Biocote Limited, part of our investment 
portfolio, has continued to trade successfully, 
adding new partners on a regular basis. 
Through its marketing and innovative business 
approach, the company has continued to gain 
new customers, especially in the healthcare 
sector, including Dyson, who introduced a 
revolutionary new hand dryer to the market, 
the Dyson Airblade, a product that is 
manufactured and treated with Biocote. 
Preventative c oatings
Magma, based in r otterdam, which supplies  
a range of fire retardant coatings, is now well 
positioned to expand and develop its sales for 
timber treatment and has recently concluded 
contracts with two leading timber treatment 
plants in Holland, which account for over 
80% of the Dutch market for treated timber. 
However, during the year ended 31 March 
2007, sales were held back by the cost and 
time taken to achieve the necessary European 
r egistration classification for new fire 
standards for European building legislation. 
All Magma’s products achieved this 
classification and, additionally, Magma’s 
products were the only fire retardants in the 
EU to pass specific tests for use on plywood. 
During recent months, the Magma 
development team, working in conjunction 
with a paint manufacturer, has developed  
a range of complementary fire retardant 
coatings for the timber market and the 
prospects for Magma’s products have  
never looked brighter.
Firestop Chemicals Limited, part of our 
investment portfolio, has continued the 
development of its two main chemical 
products, noflan and Bizon.
noflan, a treatment for fabrics, predominantly 
wool, achieved notable success during  
the year with cotton which has been 
independently certified to achieve a flame 
resistant standard of over 50 washes. This 
development has enhanced the market 
potential for noflan. 
Bizon, a flame retardant product for the 
plastics industry, has achieved a UL94 rating 
of V0, the highest international fire retardant 
rating, thereby distinguishing Bizon from 
most of its competitors. Firestop will be 
seeking further investment directly from 
investors over the next few months to  
support the costs of establishing a  
Bizon manufacturing line.
Magma and Firestop’s collaboration during 
the year continued and products from both 
companies ensured that a 43 foot high goat 
made of straw and timber, built by the people 
of Gavle in Sweden as part of their annual 
Christmas festival, survived the attacks of 
arsonists and vandals for only the seventh 
time in 40 years!
Innoshield, a coating applied to plastics, 
which protects the colours from fading in 
ultraviolet light, was again used by Legoland, 
Windsor, to refurbish their exhibits. We have 
produced new marketing material and a new 
corporate identity for this product, including 
marketing Innoshield as a speciality marine 
product which has led to product tests in Italy 
and Holland and we expect good growth in 
sales during this year.
c onclusion
During the last 12 months, the Group has 
built on the structures put in place following 
the Group’s re-organisation in 2005.
The acquisition of Contico, the continued 
expansion to the OspreyDeepClean network 
and the Magma product range, enables the 
Group to look forward, with confidence, to 
the coming year.
david c hestnutt
Chief Executive
The results of the 
enlarged Group 
demonstrate the  
success of this change  
in strategy. 07 PROVENTEC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
The coating businesses have an emphasis 
on preventative environmentally friendly 
solutions delivering demonstrable cost, health 
and safety benefits.
IMPr OVInG 
FIr E SAFETY
FIr E r ETAr DAnTS 
 
Overview
Christmas trees treated with Magma’s  
X-mas Safe
®
 reduce the fire risk and comply 
with European Standards for Fire Safety.
