 PROVENTEC 02 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
c Ha Irman’ S STaTemen T
During the last 12 months the Group has 
continued to expand and develop the core 
trading businesses of OspreyDeepClean  
and Magma. 
The strategy of selling our non-core 
investments has continued and during the 
year we completed our exit from Hardide plc 
and disposed of our shareholding in Ultra 
Motor Company Limited.
The funds from those disposals, together  
with our own resources, have been used to 
promote and expand the OspreyDeepClean 
brand. In February 2007, we established a 
joint venture vehicle in France and over the 
year, we have also progressed talks with other 
potential partners in mainland Europe to 
position us best to develop the distribution 
network that is required for the Group’s 
continued growth.
To that end we were able to complete an 
acquisition of 80% of Contico Manufacturing 
Limited (“Contico”) just after the year end 
which will change the profile and distribution 
network for OspreyDeepClean in the United 
Kingdom and further afield. Contico is a 
manufacturer and distributor of cleaning  
and hygiene products with an established 
distribution network throughout the United 
Kingdom. It also has trading relationships in 
Europe, the Middle East and the Far East.
Your Board, mindful of the cost of the 
acquisition of Contico, secured a private 
placing of 5% of the share capital at 9 pence 
per share, which the directors considered to 
be an appropriate discount to the market 
price of the shares; this transaction was 
completed on 29 June 2007. The proceeds of 
that placing have substantially replenished the 
Group’s cash reserves which were used to 
finance the acquisition of Contico.
Looking forward, a new steam cleaning 
machine, the development, manufacture and 
supply of which was commissioned just over  
a year ago, should be available in the second 
half of this year and in full manufacture by 
October 2007.
The development team in the Group’s  
flame retardant business, Magma, has  
made an exciting technical breakthrough in 
collaboration with a major paint manufacturer 
and new product lines arising from this 
cooperation are expected to be available 
before the end of 2007.
In conclusion, I believe that during the 
financial year ended 31 March 2007 we have 
enjoyed a number of successes upon which  
to develop the businesses and the portents 
for the coming financial year and beyond  
are good.
I would like to express my thanks to my 
colleagues on the Board together with all  
the Group’s employees for their hard work  
in driving Proventec forward, both over the 
last year to date and in anticipation of their 
efforts in the future.
Peter Teerlink
Chairman
The Group has 
established an excellent 
foundation upon which 
to develop and expand 
the Group.
