 Proventec plc | Report and accounts 2010 2
Michael Hough
Chairman’ s Statement
The last few months have been extremely challenging for your 
Board who have worked tirelessly to resolve Proventec’s funding 
issues and to restructure the debt burden following the withdrawal of 
financial support by the company’s largest shareholder.
Following the reverse takeover in 2005, InnoConcepts NV became 
the largest shareholder with approximately 36% of the Ordinary 
Shares.  In addition it received Convertible Loan Notes, carrying 
an 8.5% coupon, to the value of £10.5 million.  The Board of 
Proventec agreed to allow InnoConcepts to sell the Loan Notes 
subject to the debt being ultimately guaranteed by InnoConcepts.  
The Loan Notes were sold to third parties and the Company raised 
an additional £4 million in 2007 via a further issue that was also 
covered by the InnoConcepts guarantee.
In early 2010 the Board formally advised InnoConcepts that based 
on current cash flows they did not expect to be able to meet the 
loan note interest due in July 2010.  This led to discussions with 
our advisers about how the Company could best meet its liabilities 
to the Loan Note holders.  Relying on verbal assurances that 
InnoConcepts would support an equity fundraising, discussions 
appeared to reach a point in mid-June that sufficient funds would be 
made available in a limited fundraising and by further loans.
Subsequently InnoConcepts advised the Board and the Euronext 
stock market in Amsterdam that it was not prepared to support the 
Company and invited the Loan Note holders to negotiate directly 
with its Board to resolve their debt under the guarantee.  With the 
sudden and unexpected collapse of discussions that would have 
resulted in funding of the required level, your Board was left with 
no alternative other than to advise the UK markets that we were 
The successful conclusion  
of the Scheme of  
Arrangement gives the 
Company its best chance  
to deliver its plans.
considering our financial options and we could not rule out the 
possibility that the Company might have to enter administration.  
The shares were subsequently suspended from trading on AIM and 
Alternext on 21 June 2010.
From late June onwards and with the assistance of Amsterdams 
Effectenkantoor, the Company’s advisers in the Netherlands, your 
Directors met with a representative committee of loan note holders 
and their advisers to work on a Scheme of Arrangement.  The result 
of this is reflected in the post balance sheet note to the accounts 
and was contained in the Circular sent to shareholders on 29 
October 2010 and was passed at the General Meeting held on 
23 November 2010.
The adoption of the Scheme of Arrangement has provided the 
Company with additional working capital, a much simplified 
balance sheet and greatly reduced the Company’s debt.  We have 
also cancelled the share options previously granted to the Directors 
and certain employees and are trying to arrange for the warrants, 
that now have no economic value and which were granted at the 
time of the reverse takeover, to be surrendered
The successful conclusion of the Scheme of Arrangement gives the 
Company its best chance to deliver its plans and the operational re-
structuring will allow the management to focus on its core businesses 
of dry steam equipment and janitorial supplies.
Following the completion of the Scheme of Arrangement Peter 
Teerlink, who has been Chairman since 2005, has left the Board 
and I have taken over that role.  I will look to further strengthen the 
Board in the near future.
Your Board will continue to explore all options available to them 
in order to try and deliver a secure and profitable future for the 
Company.
Michael Hough
Chairman
19 January 2011 
Chairman’s Statement Overview   
