 Overview
Governance
Financial statements
08
Proventec plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Overview
Governance
Financial statements
The last year has seen 
considerable consolidation 
within the Group and the 
laying of solid foundations 
for our development and 
future growth. 
I am pleased to report the results for the year ended 
31 March 2008 in what has been an extremely busy 
12 month period.
Financial Highlights
Group turnover up 188% to £14.3 million (2007: 
£4.96 million) following acquisition of Contico 
Osprey group turnover has increased by over 35%
EBITDA increased to £2.51 million  
(2007: £2.26 million)
Raised £4.06 million by an issue of 8.5% convertible/ 
redeemable Loan Notes in January 2008
The Group’s cash balances at 31 March 2008 
stood at £4.04 million 
OspreyDeepclean
OspreyDeepclean Limited (“Osprey”) specialises in dry 
steam cleaning technology, which effectively sanitises 
an area without the use of chemicals, instantly 
removing all germs and bacteria including MRSA, 
Clostridium difficile and E-coli. The technology 
provides higher standards of cleanliness compared  
>
>
>
>
>
Chief Executive’s Report
David Chestnutt
to conventional methods and it is also more 
environmentally and economically friendly, providing 
considerable savings in water and chemical usage. 
In November 2007, the most detailed and complete 
healthcare report to date on hygienic cleaning 
without the use of chemicals, was prepared by 
University College Hospital London. This study into 
the efficacy of bactericidal cleaning, in conjunction 
with Osprey’s dry steam equipment and specialist 
tooling, has set new standards for hospital hygiene 
and redefined “clean”. 
Following peer review by TNO, a European testing 
house based in Amsterdam, this report was signed 
off in March 2008 and is due to be published later 
this year. The results have already been welcomed  
by all parties in the healthcare sector that have an 
interest in bactericidal cleaning. 
The results of the report have been presented at a 
number of healthcare conferences. Presentations have 
also been made to some of the leading advocates  
in the Infection Control arena including professors 
and directors at major hospitals in the UK, Holland, 
France, Canada, United States of America and Saudi 
Arabia. These presentations have led to a number of 
commercial discussions in all these countries. 
At the same time, early in 2008, Osprey was 
nominated as the sole supplier of specialist steam 
cleaning equipment by the NHS Purchase and Supply 
Agency. As a result, the sales of machines into the 
healthcare sector have increased dramatically in  
the first quarter of 2008, largely helped by the UK 
Government making additional funding available for 
deep cleaning of hospitals across the country. 
Legislative pressures and performance targets in the 
UK are encouraging hospitals and trusts to recognise 
the importance of maintaining high standards of 
cleanliness. Such levels can be achieved by dry steam 
cleaning on a regular and daily basis. The new Osprey 
specialist tooling accessories, together with the 
Company’s standard operating procedures and 
manuals, have enabled Osprey to establish itself 
as the leading provider in this sector. 
Osprey continues to seek new markets in the 
healthcare sector in Europe and the Middle East. 
In March this year, the Group signed a licence with  
a private Japanese hospital group that, we believe, 
will lead to substantial orders over the next four 
to five years in Central Europe and Japan. 
Beyond the healthcare sector, the sale of our dry 
steam cleaning machines continues in the multitude 
of countries in which we have distribution channels.  Overview
Governance
Financial statements
Overview
Governance
Financial statements
09
Proventec plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Job:	 10941_PROVENTEC_FRT_AW	 Proof:	 02	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	TIM	 Date:	 06.08.08	
Server:	 STUDIO	1	 Set-up:	 GEM	 First	Read/Revisions
Industries such as hospitality, food manufacturing 
and retail are looking for cost effective means of 
superior cleaning. In particular we continue to 
achieve success in the US commercial food factory 
market where standards of hygiene are increasingly 
being driven by consumer concerns. 
Contico Manufacturing
Contico Manufacturing Limited (“Contico”), in which 
the Group acquired an 80% stake in June 2007, has 
provided a significant contribution to the Group’s 
financial results. Contico is a manufacturer and 
distributor of cleaning and hygiene equipment and 
has an excellent reputation in its field. Although  
the cleaning market, including janitorial supplies, 
is typically conservative, Contico has developed its 
business over the past 12 months and during this 
time has shown steady growth. 
Like many businesses in the UK the company has seen 
considerable cost pressures due to the high cost of 
fuel which affects transport, distribution and the raw 
material cost of plastic products. Additionally the 
strength of the euro against sterling has increased the 
cost of many imported products. However, Contico is 
continually sourcing new and innovative products and 
intends to expand its business into Europe using the 
connections and relationships within the Group. 
BioCote
BioCote Limited (“BioCote”), a company in which the 
Group has a 31% stake, offers a coating technology 
based on a silver additive. BioCote treated products 
have a higher resistance to the development of 
bacteria and BioCote can be seen as a second line of 
defence against community acquired infections, after 
cleaning. BioCote took part in a study with the Heart 
of England NHS Foundation to compare two out-
patient wards. The first ward contained furniture  
and equipment incorporating BioCote’s antibacterial 
protection. The second ward contained standard and 
non-treated items. The results from the trials show 
that the facility using BioCote had 95.8% less 
bacteria in the environment than the ward with no 
silver based products. BioCote’s silver additive gives 
the product built-in antibacterial protection and can 
be incorporated into a variety of materials including 
plastics, fabrics, paints, powder coatings and papers.
As a Group we are developing a number of other 
products to further our comprehensive bactericidal 
cleaning offering to the specialist hygiene sector. 
Preventative Coatings
The Magma coatings division based in Rotterdam has 
continued to develop its range of Magma Firestop 
products in conjunction with Firestop Chemicals 
Limited (“Firestop”), an investment held by the 
Group. It now has an extensive range of flame 
retardant products that are applied as a post-
manufacturing treatment to products, such as 
Christmas trees, roofing thatch and timbers including 
plywood. The company has also developed a range 
of flame retardant paints, including latex paint. The 
company is seeking to distribute its products through 
companies and groups that already have established 
routes to market. Magma is also working on a flame 
retardant system for a programme of renovation and 
new-build for schools in Scandinavia. 
Firestop has sourced alternative manufacture  
of Noflan, the flame retardant for fabrics, from  
an Indian manufacturer. The development of 
manufacturing facilities for Bizon, our flame  
retardant for polymers, is continuing. 
Innoshield, an ultraviolet preventative coating, 
is being trialled as a protective and restorative 
treatment for fibreglass in the marine sector. It also, 
in conjunction with another product, has properties 
as a paint system for inhibiting rust, a valuable 
property for multiple large industries. We expect  
this to lead to commercial developments in 2009. 
Conclusion
The last year has seen considerable consolidation 
within the Group and the laying of solid foundations 
for our development and future growth. 
Over the next 12 months we expect to see continued 
growth in the Group, especially with our proven dry 
steam cleaning technology as it receives further 
credence and acceptance from the key decision 
makers in the healthcare and food industry markets.
 
David Chestnutt
Chief Executive 
