 Chief Executive’s statement
Provexis plc Annual report and accounts 2008        6 
Strategy and management structure 
We are several months into the implementation of our new strategy of focusing on the discovery, 
development and licensing of scientifically-proven functional food, medical food and dietary supplement 
technologies. I am pleased to say that this transition has gone well and the business is now fully-focused, 
has a much reduced cost base (evidenced by losses reducing to £1.163m versus £2.450m in 2007) and a 
combination of commercially-ready and promising future technologies. 
To underpin the implementation of the strategy, on 1 August 2008 we announced the raising of £2.5m of 
working capital via a placing of new shares. As part of this placing DSM Venturing B.V., the venturing arm of 
the €8.8bn turnover DSM life sciences and material sciences business, made a strategic investment of 
£1.5m in the business. In addition to the investment, we have invited Krijn Rietveld, Senior Vice-President 
with DSM Nutrition, to be a Provexis Director and I believe his sector knowledge and experience will add 
great value to the team. 
Steve Morrison joins us as Chief Operating Officer in October 2008, bringing a strong track record as a 
global R&D Project Director with Ipsen and Shire Pharmaceutical. His skills will make us even more effective 
in delivering technologies in line with the needs of our global partners. We have also continued to strengthen 
the R&D team, in order to maximise the value created from current and new technologies. 
Fruitflow
®
 licensing 
Our collaboration with Unilever is on track, with the R&D team making great strides in the development of a 
concentrated Fruitflow
®
 format suitable for incorporation into vegetable oil-based spreads. This format will be 
trialled in human subjects in late summer, with a target of delivering a final, proven Fruitflow
®
 product to our 
partner later this year. 
We are working intensively with The Coca-Cola Company on a programme of consumer testing, commercial 
assessment and finalising regulatory approval in a range of territories. Subject to positive results in these 
areas, the parties intend to proceed to a licensing agreement. 
Discussions are underway with two global ingredients manufacturers for the license of Fruitflow
®
 for the 
dietary supplements sector and we expect to make progress during the balance of 2008. 
The research team continue to develop further claim areas for our core technology. In 2008 we will progress 
our deep vein thrombosis work, with human studies commencing in 2009. We will commence work on 
metabolic syndrome and Type-II diabetes claims in 2009. 50 million US citizens are estimated to suffer from 
metabolic syndrome and as such the area represents a significant opportunity. 
Pipeline
The first phase of human trials on our patented technology for the treatment of Crohn’s Disease has been 
completed successfully and we will move into the second phase full clinical trial on Crohn’s Disease patients 
in the second half of the year, once final MHRA clearance has been received. We are working closely with 
the University of Liverpool to extend the technology into potential new claim areas and expect to see 
progress towards this in the second half of 2008. 
The 75% Provexis-owned joint venture with the University of Liverpool is to extend its activity into the 
development of a novel plant-derived formulation for the treatment and prevention of infections caused by 
invasive bacteria such as Clostridium difficile (“C.difficile”). The new technology project by the joint venture 
partners will develop a novel, patented and clinically-proven formulation to prevent interactions between bacteria 
of therapeutic interest including C.difficile and the lining of the human digestive tract. The proposed end-user 
product will be targeted at the medical food sector. 
We have entered into a one-year option agreement with the University of Manchester for a natural extract for 
the prevention and treatment of peptic ulcers. During this period we will assess and develop the technology 
and subject to our being satisfied with the potential, the intellectual property and patents will be assigned to 
Provexis. We believe that our well-developed, low-cost development model will enable us to commercialise 
this novel technology effectively, adding significant shareholder value to the business in the medium term. 
provexis revised.pdf   6 provexis revised.pdf   6 05/09/2008   10:08:11 05/09/2008   10:08:11
BlacK BlacK Chief Executive’s statement continued 
Provexis plc Annual report and accounts 2008        7 
Outlook
We have reduced our cost base significantly, giving us an effective low-cost platform from which to 
commercialise our existing Fruitflow
®
 technology, our Crohn’s Disease product and new technologies. 
This, together with the collaborations and strong relationships we enjoy with leading global brand owners and 
ingredient manufacturers, will drive our focus on extracting shareholder value from our promising IP pipeline 
in the coming year. 
Stephen Moon 
Chief Executive 
2 September 2008 
provexis revised.pdf   7 provexis revised.pdf   7 05/09/2008   10:08:11 05/09/2008   10:08:11
BlacK BlacK
