 The past year has seen substantial progress across the Group as a result of our clear focus on the
strategic objectives of developing revenues from our Fruitﬂow
1
and SiS
1
assets, together with reducing
costs and seeking efﬁciencies.
SiS
1
delivered revenues in line with our expectations and while the summer of 2012 was challenging
due to historically poor weather and adverse trading conditions, we ﬁnished the year very strongly and
have carried this momentum into the new ﬁnancial year. Investment in all our key growth drivers has
seen a good return, with the areas of sales excellence, and e-commerce staff and infrastructure having
received major focus. The new factory has developed well during the year and is now in a position to
effectively meet the growing demand of the SiS
1
business. We continue to develop new SiS
1
products
both in-house and in collaboration with strategic partners, and we believe this to be a key competitive
advantage for us.
The completion of a commercially viable powder version of Fruitﬂow
1
in the ﬁnal quarter of the year was
an important milestone for our collaboration with DSM, given feedback from potential customers in the
global dietary supplement sector. DSM have brought 17 products to market in conjunction with their
international consumer brand customers, and are seeing strong interest in all major global markets for
the powder version of Fruitﬂow
1
.
We have focused strongly on controlling the cost base of the business and the results of this are evident
given the 50% reduction in underlying operating losses for the Group. We will continue to seek further
savings and efﬁciencies in the coming months, and since the year end we have closed our R&D facility
at the University of Aberdeen as part of this drive.
With the investment cycle for Fruitﬂow
1
now complete, and given ongoing cost reduction initiatives, the
Board also propose the demerger of SiS
1
from the Group, in order to optimise the future prospects of
both of our revenue generating assets. The details of the proposed demerger are set out in a separate
circular and announcement. Shareholders will receive one share in the new SiS
1
business for each 100
Provexis shares already owned, allowing investors the ﬂexibility to participate in the growth story for
either or both of our revenue generating assets. The demerger will also see a share placing to capitalise
the new SiS
1
business and to fund its growth strategy.
I would like to thank the executive team and all of our staff and advisors for their high levels of
commitment and professionalism, not only in developing the business, but in putting in place the strategy
to demerge SiS
1
from the Group in order to deliver value for shareholders.
Dawson Buck
Chairman
Provexis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 3
c108597pu010Proof2:28.6.13_09:27B/LRevision:0OperatorPutA Chairman’sstatement
