 Chief Executive’s statement 
 
 
 
Provexis plc Annual report and accounts 2009        6 
Strategy and structure 
We continue to execute our strategy of discovery, development and licensing functional food, medical food 
and dietary supplements, in the face of very difficult market conditions. We are at an advanced stage of 
negotiations for a license agreement for Fruitflow®, together with discussions with major brand owners with 
interests in substantial sectors. In parallel, we are working to examine all strategic value-realisation options 
for our technologies. With a further novel product now entering clinical trial, attention will be given to 
exploring its commercial potential with possible license partners. 
 
We have strengthened the team, with Steve Morrison joining us from Ipsen (and prior to that Shire 
Pharmaceuticals) and bringing a strong record as a global R&D project Director. The R&D team has been 
strengthened with the addition of two further scientists. Both of these steps underpin the strategy to deliver 
shareholder value via a healthy pipeline of proprietary technologies addressing substantial markets. 
 
We raised an aggregate of £2.7m of working capital in August and October 2008 giving us sufficient reserves 
to deliver the next phase of the Company’s development. Clearly, in the face of very difficult conditions 
across our sector, we are managing cash very carefully. As planned we have reduced overheads 2% year on 
year to £967,000 and while R&D spend has increased 21% to £651,000 in line with plan, we are currently 
managing the phasing of future investment very conservatively. The increased R&D investment was for 
developing new IP for Fruitflow®, advancing the Crohn’s Disease human trial programme and commencing 
the assessment of the peptic ulcer technology, these initiatives being key to developing shareholder value. 
 
There is a goodwill impairment charge of £3,099,328 in relation to the carrying value of the goodwill from the 
acquisition of Provexis Natural Products Limited in June 2005. This is a prudent step given the deterioration 
in the economic climate and resultant increased uncertainties. The charge has no effect on our cash position 
or our operations.  
 
Fruitflow® 
We are in advanced license negotiations with a leading global ingredients manufacturer with global reach 
and strategic relationships with a wide range of global brand owners, in addition to an extensive customer 
base of regional brand owners. These negotiations are focused on rights for all food, beverage and dietary 
supplement applications. 
 
In addition, we are in discussions with a major dairy brand owner and we continue to explore with Coca-Cola 
the development of a product for one of their major markets, with this work planned to continue over the 
coming months. A re-prioritisation of Unilever’s innovation pipeline, together with our own initiatives in mini-
drinks, has resulted in collaborative work being halted at present. 
 
The European Food Safety Authority has adopted the scientific substantiation of a health claim for Fruitflow® 
under Article 13(5) of the new EC regulation framework for nutrition and health claims. This is the first Article 
13(5) dossier to be approved by EFSA and as such represents a major breakthrough for the Company. 
 
We filed new patents relating to the bioactive composition of Fruitflow®, as well as novel manufacturing 
process elements, following extensive characterisation work by the R&D team. This important new patent 
family is aimed at further protecting and developing the value of our intellectual property. 
 
A human trial comparing the Fruitflow® technology with aspirin, a recognised anti-thrombotic product, is 
underway in Aberdeen. Aspirin has known deficiencies, such as resistance to its effect in a significant 
proportion of users and side effects including gastric bleeding. We believe that favourable results in the trial 
will provide potential commercial opportunities, given an estimated 50 million people in the USA use low-
dose aspirin daily. Results of the trial will be announced later in the year. 
 
In March 2009 our license partner Multiple Marketing Limited launched Sirco® in a range of Waitrose stores 
in the UK and we understand our partner is working to extend distribution into other major multiple and high 
street chains. The Company will receive a royalty from the sales of Sirco®. 
 
NSP#3G plantain extract 
Following a Clinical Trials Authorisation received from the Medicines & Healthcare products Regulatory 
Agency and completion of the necessary pre-trial processes, we will commence a two-centre trial on Crohn’s 
Disease patients in remission in the next few weeks. 
  Chief Executive’s statement continued 
 
 
 
Provexis plc Annual report and accounts 2009        7 
With the trial commencing and combined with recently obtained healthy human data, we will now increase 
activity in the commercial area, seeking to identify potential global license or co-development partners to 
address this substantial market opportunity.  
 
Helicobacter pylori 
Our option agreement with the University of Manchester and associated research work into a novel extract 
for the treatment of helicobacter pylori, a major cause of peptic ulcers, is proceeding well and will reach a 
critical decision point in the last quarter of this calendar year. 
 
The Company received a £100,000 grant from the North West Development Agency for this project and this 
directly funds a significant portion of the costs in the phase of development. 
 
Outlook 
Progress will continue to be difficult in this economic environment and we are managing cash and resources 
very carefully in recognition of this. We are focused on revenue development for our key Fruitflow® 
technology with positive negotiations and discussions in place with global players in the ingredients, food and 
beverage sectors. We will continue to explore actively all options for value creation and realisation for 
Fruitflow® and our pipeline technologies. 
 
We remain committed to creating medium and long-term shareholder value through the exploitation of our 
technology pipeline and will expedite development this year, while being mindful of the need to preserve 
resources. 
 
 
Stephen Moon 
Chief Executive 
8 June 2009 
 
 
