 Chairman’s statement 
 
 
 
Provexis plc Annual report and accounts 2011        3 
The business has made substantial progress this year through the development of its long-term, global 
commercial agreement with DSM for our lead Fruitflow® technology, in addition to the broader pipeline being 
extended and developed.  
 
I can announce that we are about to meet our objective of making an acquisition, as we today announce that 
the Company has entered into a conditional agreement to purchase SiS (Science in Sport) Limited, which is 
expected to complete on 24 June 2011. The business develops, manufactures and sells nutrition products 
for sports people and its heritage is in providing nutrition products for professional and elite athletes. In 
addition to bringing revenues and cash flow to the Group, there is a great synergy between the two 
businesses and we believe our existing scientific and regulatory skills will help the acquired business to 
cement further its reputation in its target sectors. 
 
Following the signing of our Alliance Agreement with DSM on 1 June 2010, good progress has been made in 
the commercialisation of our lead heart-health Fruitflow® technology. DSM launched Fruitflow® to the 
industry in Europe in November 2010 and in the US in March 2011. DSM has made significant progress in 
marketing the technology in a broad range of global markets, attracting positive interest from a wide range of 
global, multinational and national brand owners in the functional food and dietary supplement sectors.  We 
are pleased with the progress made by DSM. 
 
Having a broader pipeline remains central to our strategy and progress has been made on a number of 
fronts. While we have been frustrated with the slow progress in patient recruitment for our NSP#3G Crohn‟s 
disease trial, an independent interim review of trial data has given us confidence to open further patient 
centres. Our collaboration with the Institute of Food Research, with an initial objective of developing a 
product for cardiovascular inflammation, is proceeding well and a first human trial is underway. We recently 
entered into a development agreement with DSM where the Group will bring its scientific and regulatory 
expertise to bear to commercialise DSM owned intellectual property. 
 
With our first commercial deal for Fruitflow®, a major acquisition and the expansion of our pipeline, it has 
been a busy year and I would like to thank the executive team, all of our staff and our advisors for their 
efforts and professionalism.  
 
Dawson Buck 
Chairman 
 
