 Chief Executive’s statement 
 
 
 
 
Provexis plc Annual report and accounts 2011        4 
 
Strategy 
 
We have continued to execute our strategy of discovery, development and licensing functional food, medical 
food and dietary supplements. Our intention to make acquisitions in order to develop shareholder value has 
been realised through our entering into a conditional agreement to acquire SiS (Science in Sport) Limited 
(“SiS”), which is expected to complete on 24 June 2011.  We believe that there is good synergy between the 
two businesses and that our existing scientific and regulatory expertise can assist in making the SiS 
business a leader in claims-supported sports nutrition.  
 
The Provexis business model now extends from discovery, through development and now to market by a 
combination of licensing and direct sales revenues. The Directors believe that this gives the business the 
correct balance of short-term revenues and long-term pipeline potential.  
 
The executive team will continue to seek further acquisitions as part of the long-term aim to strengthen the 
pipeline. We have continued to invest in top quality management expertise in order to assist the Group in 
meeting its strategic goals and this policy will continue. 
 
To support our strategy, we raised £2.5m via our Equity Financing Facility in June and October 2010, with a 
further £2.5m from the conditional placing announced on 17 June 2011.  Together, these fundraising events 
will enable us to undertake the acquisition of SiS, which is expected to complete on 24 June 2011, and 
deliver on our strategic plan. 
 
Fruitflow® 
 
The Company announced on 1 June 2010 that it had entered into a long-term alliance with DSM Nutritional 
Products (“DSM”) to develop Fruitflow® in all major global markets, through an effective commercialisation of 
current formats and pioneering new and significant applications (the “Alliance”).  
 
DSM launched Fruitflow® to the industry in Europe in November 2010 and in the US in March 2011. 
Manufacturing and supply chain for a cost effective syrup version of Fruitflow® has been secured. Also good 
progress has been made on optimising the powder version of Fruitflow®, suitable for formats such as tablets 
and capsules, and this format will be commercially available late in the summer. 
 
Fruitflow® has been recognised in the industry for its strong science and innovation, being awarded the 
„Most Innovative Health Ingredient‟ and winning the best innovation in the „Heart Health‟ category at the 
major Health Ingredients Europe Conference in November 2010. In March 2011 the technology was awarded 
„Best New Ingredient‟ at the 2011 NutrAwards held at the Nutracon 2011 exhibition in Anaheim, California. 
 
The Alliance partners continue to collaborate on regulatory matters related to certain markets. In addition, the 
Provexis scientific team continues to support its counterparts in areas such as analytical methods and 
analysis, together with deepening the understanding of the core science. 
 
DSM has made significant progress in marketing the technology in a broad range of global markets, 
attracting positive interest from a wide range of global, multinational and national brand owners in the 
functional food and dietary supplement sectors. The Directors are pleased with the progress being made in 
the marketplace by the Company's Alliance partner. 
 
 
NSP#3G plantain extract 
 
A fully independent Data Monitoring Committee (“DMC”) has reviewed the data gathered from the first 
patients to complete the full 12 months of treatment in the Crohn‟s disease trial. Following their review, the 
DMC has confirmed that there are no negative findings associated with this initial dataset and no safety 
concerns related to the administration of the test product. The DMC recommended a further interim review of 
the study be conducted in Q4 2011. The interim review findings are in line with the Company‟s expectations. 
 
Following this advice, Provexis intends to identify up to four additional trial centres to facilitate full recruitment 
of the remaining patients required, to enable it to complete the trial in the shortest feasible timeline. The 
Directors have previously noted that the recruitment of patients for clinical trials in the area of inflammatory 
bowel disease is recognised as being challenging across the industry. The Company remains committed to  Chief Executive’s statement 
 
 
 
Provexis plc Annual report and accounts 2011        5 
this key technology and believes that opening extra trial centres will expedite the trial and support initial 
commercial discussions with corporate partners.  
 
The Group‟s Liverpool-based R&D team will also continue to research and characterise NSP#3G extracts for 
addressing C.difficile, the so-called hospital „super bug‟, and antibiotic-associated diarrhoea.  
 
Isothiocyanates 
 
The isothiocyanate-based cardiovascular inflammation work in collaboration with Institute of Food Research 
(“IFR”) is proceeding well. A novel extract has been developed and the first human trial has now 
commenced. A second trial will commence later this year, with a third and final trial to provide regulatory 
support for product launches being scheduled for 2012. 
 
Blood glucose 
 
We recently announced an agreement for development of DSM-owned intellectual property for the promotion 
of healthy blood glucose levels, following a period of assessment by Provexis. Under the agreement, it is the 
intention that Provexis will develop a cost effective product, carry out clinical trials and gain the necessary 
regulatory clearances. DSM will contribute intellectual property and know-how to the development 
programme. The partners will together identify the most appropriate commercialisation arrangements before 
the product is launched. 
 
Outlook 
 
The commercial progress of Fruitflow® is an important objective for the Group in the coming financial period 
and we expect to see progress as our Alliance partner DSM continues its marketing and selling efforts, in 
addition to launching the powder version for dietary supplements. 
 
Integrating the SiS business is the second major objective and we look to complete this as quickly as 
possible in order to focus existing and new management members on growing revenues in this business.  
 
It is important that we reach full recruitment in the Crohn‟s disease trial during this year, in order that 
commercial partnering discussions can commence. The isothiocyanate technology platform and the new 
blood glucose technology will both be accelerated in order we can bring these to market in the earliest 
possible time. 
 
The management team will be focused on progress in the revenue generating areas of Fruitflow® and SiS, 
while not losing sight of the medium and long term importance of the broader pipeline. Cash management 
will continue to be an area of high importance. We will maintain our strategy of developing the capability of 
the overall Provexis team in line with our goals.  
 
Stephen Moon 
Chief Executive 
 
 
