 Chief Executive’s statement 
 
 
 
Provexis plc Annual report and accounts 2010        6 
Strategy 
This was a year of important progress in a number of areas which positions the Company strongly to 
capitalise on opportunities in the coming year. The two key events during the year were the first commercial 
deal for our lead Fruitflow® heart-health technology and a substantial strengthening of our balance sheet. 
We completed two fund-raisings in September and December 2009, raising £7.1m in total before costs. In 
March we signed an Equity Financing Facility of up to £25m with Evolution Securities Ltd via its appointed 
representative, Darwin Capital, which together with our cash reserves gives us flexibility in funding options 
for seeking growth opportunities. 
 
The Company continues to execute its strategy of discovery, development and licensing of functional foods, 
medical foods and dietary supplements. To this end, with a commercial deal in place and a second 
technology in clinical trial, the executive team is seeking to extend the Company’s growth platform through 
the acquisition of a revenue generating business in the consumer healthcare area and through acquisitions 
of novel pipeline technologies. Accordingly, the Company is in exploratory talks with a number of targets. 
 
With a growing product pipeline, we continue to strengthen our R&D operations to ensure that we can quickly 
take advantage of existing and new technology opportunities. As part of this process, we are expanding our 
presence in the North West of England and have recently moved into a new laboratory facility in Liverpool, 
focused on gastrointestinal health. We have appointed an experienced R&D Director to develop this new 
facility and intend to strengthen the scientific team further. Our existing facility at the University of Aberdeen 
will maintain its focus on cardiovascular health. 
 
The functional food sector continues to be somewhat fragile, given the increased regulatory burden in 
relation to health claims, which is causing uncertainty across the industry. This, together with the still 
tentative approach to innovation by major brand owners as a result of economic factors and the regulatory 
issues, leads us to maintain our cautious outlook. Saying that, we believe that we have sufficiently strong 
foundations in place together with our proven scientific and regulatory capability, to ensure that we continue 
to make progress.  
 
The medical food sector is looking increasingly robust on a short and long-term view thereby steering us 
towards accelerating technology products in this sector. 
 
Fruitflow® 
Today we announced a long-term Alliance Agreement with DSM Nutritional Products, which will see the 
partners collaborate to develop Fruitflow® in all major global markets, through an effective commercialisation 
of current formats and pioneering new and significant applications. DSM will be responsible for: 
manufacturing; marketing; and selling via its substantial sales force. Provexis will be responsible for 
contributing scientific expertise necessary for successful commercialisation. Profits from the Alliance will be 
shared by the parties on an agreed basis, linked to various performance milestones. All other commercial 
terms of the Alliance remain confidential between the two parties. We are currently developing with DSM a 
launch plan to market Fruitflow® worldwide for application in both food and dietary supplement formats. 
 
Fruitflow® enjoyed significant acclaim during the year. In May 2009 Fruitflow® became the first product to 
receive scientific approval from the European Food Safety Authority under Article 13(5) of Regulation EC 
1924/2006 for proprietary and emerging science. In December 2009 the European Commission authorised 
the health claim “Helps maintain normal platelet aggregation, which contributes to healthy blood flow”. 
Fruitflow® continues to be the only product to receive Article 13(5) approval to date. 
 
In March 2010, we announced the headline results of a human trial comparing the effects of Fruitflow® to 
aspirin. The results were positive, with Fruitflow® showing a reduction in platelet aggregation of up to 30% in 
each of three different biological pathways, while aspirin caused up to 60% reduction predominantly in a 
single pathway. There were no negative interactions. 
 
  Chief Executive’s statement continued 
 
 
 
Provexis plc Annual report and accounts 2010        7 
Fruitflow® (continued) 
As to existing use of Fruitflow®, Multiple Marketing, owners of the Sirco juice brand which contains 
Fruitflow®, continue to market and sell the product in major multiple and high street outlets in the UK, 
including Waitrose and Holland & Barratt. As well as a one-litre pack, a 250ml pack suitable for high street 
and convenience outlets will be launched in the coming year. Provexis receives royalties from sales of Sirco, 
although these are non-material at this stage in the development of the brand. 
 
NSP#3G 
The first 20 patients (of a total target of 72) are now in clinical trials to establish the effectiveness of an 
NSP#3G medical food format in keeping Crohn’s disease in remission. The trial is running in two centres in 
the North West of England and we are seeking to extend into two further centres in the UK in order to 
accelerate the trial.  
 
The market for Crohn’s disease products is forecast to be worth $1.7bn by 2013 and the medical food market 
is in strong growth, led by Abbott, Nestlé and Danone. Once recruited, each patient’s participation in the trial 
is scheduled to run for 12 months and estimated completion is in mid-2011, with an update on progress later 
in 2010. The Company intends to commence commercial discussions with potential partners by the end of 
2010. 
 
With investment in the team and facilities in our Liverpool operation, the team will be accelerating work on 
the potential NSP#3G application for the prevention and treatment of significant pathogens including 
C.difficile, the so-called hospital ‘super bug’.  
 
Isothiocyanates 
The Company announced on 26 April 2010 a long-term collaboration with the Institute of Food Research 
(“IFR”). Provexis has been granted exclusive access to a portfolio of potentially high-value intellectual 
property related to the treatment and reduction of systemic inflammation, from which it intends to develop 
commercial products. 
 
Professor Richard Mithen of IFR has developed a substantial body of work over twenty years in the area of 
isothiocyanates for the reduction of risk of certain major cancers. More recent work, some in collaboration 
with Provexis, has led to the discovery of a broader effect in other areas of systemic inflammation, including 
cardiovascular inflammation. 
 
The partners will collaborate to develop the science, with major areas including clinical trials, extract 
development, further IP development, regulatory clearances and commercialisation. The first phase of the 
project gives Provexis the exclusive option to license the technology and if successful in this phase, Provexis 
intend to fully in-license the technology rights. 
 
Initially the Company, supported by IFR’s substantial research, will focus on developing commercial products 
targeting the reduction of cardiovascular inflammation. A longer-term objective is to develop technologies 
designed to mitigate the risk of certain major cancers. 
 
Pipeline 
We are collaborating with our strategic partner DSM Nutritional Products to establish if there are further 
candidates within DSM’s portfolio that may provide a good fit with our strategic goals and where we can use 
our scientific and regulatory expertise to accelerate technologies to commercial readiness. 
 
The option to license Helicobacter pylori intellectual property from the University of Manchester will not be 
extended after reaching an amicable termination agreement with the University. 
 
   Chief Executive’s statement continued 
 
 
 
Provexis plc Annual report and accounts 2010        8 
Outlook 
The coming year looks promising as we focus on three major goals: a successful commercial launch of 
Fruitflow® with our strategic partner DSM; progressing our NSP#3G technology through clinical trial and 
exploratory commercial discussions and; strengthening the business by acquisition of appropriate 
businesses or technologies.  
 
We believe that our operating environment will continue to be challenging in the year ahead, given the 
tightening food regulation framework and the still tentative approach to innovation by brand owners. However 
we are well positioned to overcome these challenges via our collaborations with other parties, diversity of 
activities and demonstrable commercial abilities. 
 
 
Stephen Moon 
Chief Executive 
1 June 2010 
 
 
