 Chairman’s statement 
 
 
 
Provexis plc Annual report and accounts 2009        5 
The very difficult economic climate has presented all companies in the sector with some significant 
challenges and we are not immune to these. I am pleased to report that the Company raised £2.7m in 
aggregate of working capital in August and October 2008 and in addition attracted DSM Venturing as a 
major strategic investor. These are both positive endorsements of the quality of the business and also 
give us resilience to carry us through the downturn. 
 
These challenging conditions have resulted in some potential license partners for our Fruitflow® heart-
health technology reprioritising innovation projects. However, the management team has continued to 
explore all avenues for Fruitflow® revenue generation and I can report that the Company is at an 
advanced stage of negotiations for a license agreement with a leading global ingredients manufacturer. 
 
Furthermore, the Company continues to work with global brand owners in the beverage and dairy 
sectors on potential Fruitflow® commercial arrangements. The Board will continue to assess all 
strategic options to protect and maximise shareholder value in parallel with potential licensing activity. 
 
The R&D team is driving the Fruitflow® development programme forward and, importantly, the scientific 
substantiation for the health claim has recently been adopted by the European Food Safety Authority. 
 
We are now ready to start the clinical trial for our patented technology for the treatment of Crohn’s 
Disease patients in remission. The assessment and development of our peptic ulcer technology, under 
option from the University of Manchester, is on track. 
 
The R&D pipeline is promising and underpins our strategy to build medium to long-term shareholder 
value for our shareholders through addressing substantial market sectors with novel, scientifically-
proven technologies. 
 
The Board has been significantly strengthened through the addition of new COO Steve Morrison, a 
very experienced R&D project Director and Non-executive Director Krijn Rietveld, a Senior Vice 
President with DSM Nutrition. On behalf of the whole Board I would like to thank our staff and scientific 
advisers for their expertise, dedication and commitment throughout the year. 
 
 
Dawson Buck 
Chairman 
8 June 2009 
 
 
