 Chairman’s statement 
 
 
 
Provexis plc Annual report and accounts 2012 3 
The past year has seen substantial change with the acquisition of SiS® and good progress with our 
proprietary Fruitflow® heart health technology. The Board announced at the interim results that it was to 
focus on these two assets, and as a result major reductions in cash burn have been made in the second half.  
 
Following the acquisition of SiS® last June, we have made great progress in developing a platform to drive 
long-term shareholder value. Key steps include opening a new supply chain facility including state of the art 
gel filling, investment in an enhanced marketing and sales strategy, and a range of science-led innovation 
initiatives to solidify our position as leading nutrition suppliers to elite athletes. 
 
DSM has now completed the development of a tablet grade version of Fruitflow® and we see this as a major 
milestone in the commercialisation of the technology, this being borne out by high interest from brand owners 
across the globe. The syrup version of Fruitflow® continues to gain traction in the marketplace, with seven 
regional healthcare products now on sale, with at least a further five expected in the second half of the year. 
 
Other pipeline projects were ceased or wound down at the half-year, and the focus is now firmly on the 
revenue generation potential of Fruitflow® and SiS®. As a Board, we continue to examine the business for 
further efficiencies and savings, as we seek to drive towards profitability.  
 
While the Board believes that the economic environment is challenging and will remain so for the 
foreseeable future, we believe that all due steps have been taken to develop a viable growth platform based 
on two promising revenue streams, while reducing cash usage and entrenching a culture of cost reduction. 
 
Dr Neville Bain resigned as non-executive Director, for health reasons, during the year. Sadly, Neville 
passed away in May 2012, and I would like to register on behalf of the Board my appreciation for the 
immeasurable value he contributed to the Company during his years of service. Dr Bain was replaced by 
John Clarke, formerly Global President of GlaxoSmithKline’s Consumer Healthcare business. The wealth of 
sector experience John brings to the Board will be a great asset to the business in the coming years. 
 
Following a year of wide ranging change in the business, including the acquisition and integration of SiS®, 
and further major development steps for Fruitflow®, I would like to thank the executive team and all of our 
staff and advisors for their continued high levels of commitment and professionalism. 
 
Dawson Buck 
Chairman  
 
