 Chairman’s statement 
Provexis plc Annual report and accounts 2008        5 
The year has been a challenging one but I am pleased to report that the management team continues 
to make very good progress in implementing the strategy of discovery, development and licensing of 
scientifically-proven functional food, medical food and dietary supplement technologies. 
In pursuit of our licensing strategy, we have continued to focus on securing global license partners to 
maximise the potential of our core Fruitflow
®
 heart-health technology. We are working closely with 
Coca-Cola and are making good progress in consumer testing, commercial assessment and finalising 
regulatory approval in a range of territories. In our collaboration with Unilever, the R&D team are on 
track with the development of a format suitable for inclusion in Unilever product formats. Additionally, 
negotiations are underway with potential partners in the global dietary supplement sector. Initiatives to 
secure partners in other claim areas and product sectors continue. 
Our patented technology for the treatment of Crohn’s Disease has been successful in the first trial 
phase, with a healthy human trial having recently finished. A two-centre clinical trial will commence in 
the second half of the year. We are working closely with the University of Liverpool to develop new 
claim areas for the technology. 
The team have secured a promising new technology from the University of Manchester. We believe in 
the importance of a strong technology pipeline and the building of that pipeline will significantly 
enhance shareholder value in the medium to long term. 
I have invited Krijn Rietveld, Senior Vice-President with DSM Nutrition, to join the Board as a 
Non-executive Director on 29 August 2008 and I believe he will be a valuable addition. Steve Morrison 
will further strengthen the management team when he joins us in October 2008 as Chief 
Operating Officer. 
The business has made good progress over the last year, as we have developed commercial 
opportunities, strengthened the team and reshaped the business with a significantly lower cost base. 
We are well placed to capitalise on this momentum as the management team continue to implement 
our focused discovery, development and licensing strategy. 
Dawson Buck 
Chairman
2 September 2008 
provexis revised.pdf   5 provexis revised.pdf   5 05/09/2008   10:08:11 05/09/2008   10:08:11
BlacK BlacK
