 Chief Executive’s statement 
 
 
 
Provexis plc Annual report and accounts 2012 4 
SiS® 
 
Revenues were £3.48m from the acquisition at the end of June, through to the end of the period, 
representing like for like revenue growth of 12% compared to the same period last year. The underlying 
operating loss was £226k, this being related to low season sales levels in the winter months and high levels 
of investment in the new supply chain facility, together with increased investment in marketing and sales. We 
believe that following this period of investment, the SiS® business has a very solid growth platform. 
 
Much focus has been given to developing heartland sales in independent cycle, triathlon and running shops 
and we will continue to invest in this important sector. In addition we have made good progress in multiple 
retailers and this progress has continued into the new financial year, with new listings being secured for the 
second half of the current financial year. New advertising and public relations strategies have re-established 
the brand, together with continuation of many of the existing sponsorship arrangements with elite athletes 
and teams in cycling, triathlon and rowing. Investment in marketing and sales has increased significantly 
when compared with the last financial year under previous ownership. The Company hopes to benefit 
following the Olympic Games, as interest in elite athletes increases and given the expected uplift in sports 
participants. 
 
Substantial investment has been made in the development of a new e-commerce platform and this will 
launch in the second half of the year. While export sales have remained stable, we continue to examine 
options for expansion into new markets and again, we expect to see progress later in the year. 
 
We believe that continuous science-led innovation is important in maintaining and enhancing our reputation 
with elite athletes. We developed the novel Go Gel® plus Nitrates during the year, launching it in April 2012. 
May saw us launch Go Hydro hydration tablets. During the year we also significantly advanced the 
development of a Go Gel® with Fruitflow® and this novel and proprietary product will launch later in the 
calendar year. All three of these innovations are supported by research and development programmes, 
including collaboration with research institutes. A promising innovation pipeline is in development for 2013 
and 2014. Key to this strong innovation drive is the combined scientific and regulatory expertise of the 
enlarged business, together with strong relationships with leading figures, teams and research institutes in 
the sports science arena. 
 
The move to the new supply chain facility and the installation of a new gel-filling machine has resulted in cost 
efficiencies and we are seeing improved gross margin in the current financial year as a result. In addition we 
have made savings in overheads and instituted an ongoing cost improvement programme to improve 
margins further and facilitate investment in revenue growth and innovation. 
 
Fruitflow® 
 
DSM has developed a tablet grade version of Fruitflow® and this represents a major milestone in the 
commercialisation of the technology, as evidenced by the large number of requests for samples from brand 
owners. Manufacturing facilities for both the syrup and powder formats are now in place and in addition, 
DSM has used its expertise in ingredient development to significantly reduce the cost in use of Fruitflow®. 
 
Seven regional consumer healthcare brands incorporating Fruitflow® syrup are now for sale in a range of 
global markets, and it is expected at least a further five brands will launch in the second half of the year. The 
introduction of the tablet grade format is expected to drive further interest in the technology and the current 
sales enquiry pipeline is promising and includes some global brands.  
 
Whilst revenues for Fruitflow® are nominal in the last period, the overall trend is that the technology is 
gaining market acceptance via the increasing number of brands in market. This together with the new tablet 
grade format and progress made on reducing cost in use provides a promising outlook for the technology.  
 
Pipeline restructuring 
 
At the interim results we announced the decision to halt, postpone or review other activities in the pipeline in 
order to deliver a focused, revenue-oriented strategy based on Fruitflow® and SiS®. This resulted in the 
halting of the Crohn’s disease trial and the closure of the Liverpool facility. We have since halted the 
cardiovascular inflammation project. Together, these actions will result in an annualised reduction in cash 
burn of £1.15m. 
  Chief Executive’s statement 
 
 
 
Provexis plc Annual report and accounts 2012 5 
The second interim review of the Crohn’s disease trial showed an inconclusive result in terms of efficacy. We 
are currently assessing the residual value of the intellectual property (‘IP’) related to the technology, both in 
the area of Crohn’s disease and other potential applications, before arriving at a decision as to whether to 
seek a development partner or purchaser for the IP. 
 
Following the cessation of the cardiovascular inflammation project, we have chosen not to retain any of the 
jointly owned IP, although background IP was developed by the Group which may be used in the future. On 
the DSM-owned blood glucose technology, while we have successfully developed a pilot scale product, we 
are not pursuing any further activity at this stage. 
 
These actions in closing or suspending pipeline activities are consistent with our previously announced 
strategy of focusing our efforts and resources on the revenue generating potential of Fruitflow® and SiS®. 
 
Strategy 
 
Our strategy has been aligned to focus on developing the Fruitflow® heart health technology and the SiS® 
sports nutrition business, with these two areas underpinned by the scientific and regulatory expertise of the 
Group. The closure of other pipeline activities has resulted in annualised underlying expenditure being 
reduced by £1.15m. In addition, we have reduced overheads in the SiS® business and we are improving 
operating margins through investment in supply chain and other efficiency initiatives. The combination of 
focus on revenue generation, reduced costs and improved margins are targeted at achieving breakeven and 
then operating profit for the business. 
 
Scientific capability will remain at the heart of the enlarged Company, both to support our Alliance partner 
DSM in the development of Fruitflow® and to achieve our goal of being a global leader in endurance sports 
nutrition. 
 
Outlook 
 
The economic climate remains challenging and we expect this to continue through the coming year, affecting 
both brand owner attitudes to innovation, and consumer spending. The poor weather in the first quarter of 
the year has also constrained the growth of SiS®, although we believe we will achieve our growth target for 
the full year. Overall, the medium to long-term growth prospects for the sports nutrition category are very 
promising. 
 
We will continue to work closely with our Alliance partner DSM on the commercialisation of Fruitflow® as a 
priority, particularly in the areas of scientific and technical support, as well as refining the commercial 
positioning. 
 
On SiS® we will drive our growth model of improving gross margin and reducing costs, in order to invest 
further in marketing, sales and science-led innovation. In the second half of the year we also expect to 
progress our major e-commerce initiative, together with firming up international expansion plans. The Board 
believes the Company is well placed for sustained long-term growth and we are looking forward to the year 
ahead. 
 
Stephen Moon 
Chief Executive 
 
 
