 Chairman’s statement 
 
 
 
Provexis plc Annual report and accounts 2010        5 
The year saw strong progress from the Company, with its first major commercial agreement signed and 
a substantial strengthening of its balance sheet. 
 
Today we announced a long-term Alliance Agreement for our Fruitflow® heart-health technology with 
our strategic partner DSM Nutritional Products. This agreement will see the partners collaborate on the 
development of Fruitflow® in all major global markets, with DSM bringing technical, manufacturing and 
marketing expertise, together with global selling scale. The partners will share profits from the Alliance 
on an agreed basis. 
 
We raised £7.1m (before costs) of new capital in September and December 2009, which substantially 
strengthened our balance sheet and, in addition, in March 2010 we entered into an Equity Financing 
Facility of up to £25m to give flexibility in our funding options. 
 
The Board and executive team are working to identify acquisitions that will further strengthen the 
business given the access to the funding in place. We are assessing both revenue-generating 
businesses in the consumer healthcare area and new technology candidates for our pipeline. 
 
We made very strong progress on the regulatory and research fronts. Indeed, gaining the first ever 
Article 13(5) health claim approval from the EC for our Fruitflow® technology, was a major milestone. 
We have now commenced the clinical trial for our NSP#3G technology for Crohn’s disease and intend 
to report on progress later in the year. In addition, we added an important new technology for the 
reduction of cardiovascular inflammation to our pipeline as part of a long-term collaboration with the 
renowned Institute of Food Research. 
 
We believe that we are well positioned to take advantage of opportunities in the functional food and 
dietary supplement sectors, given our proven scientific and regulatory capability. With medical foods in 
strong growth, the team will bring focus to bear on pipeline technologies to serve this sector. 
 
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank our staff and scientific advisors for their expertise, 
dedication and commitment throughout the year. 
 
 
Dawson Buck 
Chairman 
1 June 2010 
 
 
