 Punch Graphix plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
02
Job:	 8921_PG_06	AR_front_AW.indd	 Proof:	 10	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Rich	 Date:	 12.04.2007	
Server:	 studio	3	 Set-up:	 Rob	 First	Read/Revisons
At A GlANCE
Punch Graphix operates through two 
business lines with leading brands in their 
own markets 
diGitAl COlOUR PRiNtiNG sOlUtiONs
Under the Xeikon brand, Punch Graphix develops, 
manufactures and distributes high-end digital colour 
printing systems, prepress and operating software, and 
consumables for the global printing market. Solutions 
include print-on-demand, direct marketing and 
transactional applications for the document printing 
sector and packaging, label and speciality applications 
for the industrial sector.
Xeikon engines are web-fed, combining unique widths, 
with virtually unlimited sheet length and the widest 
variety of substrates. Using electro-photographic 
technology, they are environmentally friendly as no 
solvent is used. They deliver high levels of productivity, 
printing double sided in one pass, and have a scaleable, 
modular, digital front-end that combines extensive 
prepress functionality with a wide range of variable 
data printing processing capabilities. 
Xeikon provides its 
customers with integrated 
solutions tailored to specifi c 
markets, a vital distinction 
to the competition
Dream. Dare. Do.
KEY stRENGtHs
•  The pioneer of ‘Digital colour printing’ with outstanding 
productivity, fl exibility and print quality
•  A range of innovative products and services, constantly 
evolving in response to customer input
•  State of the art digital front-end, pre- and post-press solutions
that seamlessly integrate into almost any workfl ow
↘ Punch Graphix plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
03
Job:	 8921_PG_06	AR_front_AW.indd	 Proof:	 10	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Rich	 Date:	 12.04.2007	
Server:	 studio	3	 Set-up:	 Rob	 First	Read/Revisons
basysPrint provides the 
perfect answer to the mid 
to high volume printers of 
books, magazines, packaging 
and other commercial 
applications, who require 
the highest reproduction 
quality and trust their long 
experience in cost competitive 
UV sensitive plates
PREPREss sOlUtiONs
Under the basysPrint brand name and as an OEM supplier 
Punch Graphix develops, manufactures and distributes 
high quality prepress equipment and related software for 
off set printing in the commercial and newspaper sectors.
In the commercial sector, basysPrint combines the 
advantages of directly transferring images onto a light 
sensitive plate without fi lm – known as Computer-to-
Plate (CtP) – with the advantage of using the cheap and 
widely available ultra violet-plates used for the traditional 
Computer-to-Film (CtF) system and well known by the 
prepress managers.
In the newspaper sector, the OEM prepress solutions are 
based on violet light technology.
↘
Trust your experience
KEY stRENGtHs
• Unique concept
• Low cost consumables leading to fast return on investment 
• Straightforward workfl ow integration
• Ultimate reproduction quality
• Flexibility in plate format and plate handling
• Environmental friendliness
