 Punch Graphix plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
06
Job:	 8921_PG_06	AR_front_AW.indd	 Proof:	 10	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Rich	 Date:	 12.04.2007	
Server:	 studio	3	 Set-up:	 Rob	 First	Read/Revisons
CHAiRmAN’s st At EmENt
The shareholders received a cash offer from Punch 
International N.V on 8 January 2007, and the statement 
from the Independent Committee of our Board of 
Directors on 23 January 2007, expressing its reservation on 
the Punch International proposal, considering the 
company’s performance. The offer closed on 13 February 
2007 with Punch International increasing its shareholding 
from 49% to 92.58% in Punch Graphix plc. 
Subsequently, the independent Non-Executive Directors 
resigned on 20 February 2007. I want to express my 
appreciation for their contribution to the development of 
the Company during their terms of office.
The long-term strategy for growth to establish Punch 
Graphix as a strong technology player in selected markets 
of the graphic sector is further supported by the new 
Board of Directors, with a stronger emphasis on short-
term profitability, cash and shareholder value appreciation, 
to be achieved through continuous and pro-active cost 
control, operational efficiency actions, and top line 
management. We will keep investing in technology, 
further enhance our approach on total solutions, while 
strengthening our service offering. 
Looking back at 2006, revenues 
increased to €173.34m, operating 
profit before taxation increased by 
15% and earnings per share rose  
by 17%.
The Xeikon 6000 launched in September has been 
unanimously recognised as a new standard in the high-
end digital colour market with graphic art printing quality. 
The basysPrint ‘Very Large Format’ product line was 
upgraded with new technology for its optics, delivering 
superior speed and lower maintenance requirements. 
Punch Graphix continued supporting successfully its 
partner Agfa in the newspaper sector, especially with the 
new entry level Computer-to-Plate model.
The period saw the further strong growth of the Xeikon 
brand in Europe and Japan, but showed a slower 
evolution than expected in the USA. 
The basysPrint brand continued gaining momentum, 
specially in countries where UV plates are still widely used, 
such as Brazil, India and China.
To support the growth, the Group invested a further €8m 
in plant and machinery. We carried out a number of 
actions to increase operating efficiency, such as the SAP 
implementation in Germany and Canada, and marketing 
and sales process alignment.
I am confident that our well balanced business model 
with high recurring revenues and our presence in both 
digital and offset sectors is suited to challenge a dynamic 
and competitive environment. I am optimistic that with 
our changed focus to optimise further cash and return, we 
will offer strong returns to shareholders. 
Philip Ghekiere
Chairman
A focus change: from profitable growth to 
higher return and cash 
“ Unique and highly personalised direct mail 
campaigns form the core of DME’s multimedia 
direct marketing approach. We chose the Xeikon 
5000 because it’s a truly high volume digital color 
press and it is the only digital color press on the 
market that has a web width of 20” with virtually 
no restriction on the length of the printed piece
         ”
Alin Jacobs, VP-Creative Strategies, Direct Mail Express (DME),  
Daytona Beach, FL and Itasca, IL , USA  
lEA di NG Us O NE-t O-ONE d iRECt m ARKEt ER CHOOs Es X EiKON 
Xeikon 5000
