 Punch Graphix plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
08
Job:	 8921_PG_06	AR_front_AW.indd	 Proof:	 10	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Rich	 Date:	 12.04.2007	
Server:	 studio	3	 Set-up:	 Rob	 First	Read/Revisons
CHiEF EXECUti VE’s REViEw Ben C. Van Assche answers some 
frequently asked questions about the 
progress and future of Punch Graphix
Q You have recently undertaken a 
strategic review – what are the key 
elements of your strategy moving 
forward?
 
A The Punch Graphix strategy is founded on four value-
adding business streams and I see the integration of 
those streams in the interest of the customer as a key 
success factor and one of my main responsibilities. First  
is the equipment development. Our R&D teams are 
continuously monitoring technological changes, 
customer feedback and competitor activity. 
The second stream is designing a user-friendly, software-
based workflow that interfaces with customers’ existing 
environments. The third is the consumables stream. We 
believe in environmentally friendly consumables that 
enhance output quality. Using electro-photography for 
Xeikon, combined with in-house developed toner 
capability as well as through the choice of UV-sensitive 
plate technology for basysPrint, we address both 
environmental requirements and improve reproduction 
quality. Moreover, with about half of our total revenue 
from consumables and services in 2006, this recurring 
revenue stream provides a solid base for development. 
Finally, the fourth stream is the support and service areas, 
where we make a real difference for our customers. Every 
customer has different requirements and workflow 
constraints and we are committed to matching our 
solutions to their individual needs. 
Over half of our total workforce is engaged in directly 
supporting our customers and ensuring prompt and  
pro-active interaction.
 
Q Where do you see the key areas for 
growth within the business? How did the 
change of control of the Company in 
February 2007 impact on the business 
priorities?
A At the time of admission, we presented three main 
areas for growth and the direction is still valid, although 
the focus has shifted between these areas under 
guidance of the new Board, that was put in place  
20 February 2007.
One growth area is the extension and enhancement of 
our technology leadership. We were the pioneer of digital 
printing colour systems in the early 90s and although we 
have some very large competitors, we still put ourself 
apart with a number of very specific unique selling points, 
placing our systems at the high end of the document 
printing segment with graphic art quality. In the area of 
industrial applications, we have a promising foothold in 
labels and several speciality applications, which has a 
significant potential for the future. In the CtP areas, a  
more mature product, we see growth in enhancing the 
productivity and quality of systems further. 
Another area for growth is to selectively address market 
opportunities. For digital, from a geographical 
standpoint, clearly the US is the most attractive country 
for a brand like Xeikon to grow, followed by Europe and 
Japan. On the CtP side (non newspaper), the Asian and 
South American markets remain the most active with 
positive growth expected for the coming years. 
Another important part of our go-to-market strategy is 
the full solution approach. For example, we are targeting 
in-plant printing facilities for large companies or 
institutions. To enter those markets successfully we 
present flexible finishing solutions with in-line coating or 
perfect book binding solutions. 
Technology and market growth will however only be 
possible if our operational excellence keeps up its pace: 
we continue to realise synergies and whenever possible 
streamline and integrate functions. We have rationalised 
the CtP product platforms and adopted a more strict 
digital front end and software phasing process, while 
optimising production processes for both digital and 
prepress business lines. 
However the progress made in this area until the end of 
last year must, in the view of our main shareholder, be 
further improved. Under impulse of the new Board, the 
priority setting is shifting towards a stronger emphasis on 
return and cash generation. For this purpose a number  
of actions have been put in place, in a very systematic 
and controlled manner, in particular in the field of 
working capital and operations. We are among others 
reviewing our international industrial strategy, by 
optimising and centralising logistics and production in 
cooperation with Punch International. One consequence 
of this industrial review has been the closure of the 
operation in Shenzhen.  Punch Graphix plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
09
Software
Consumables
Equipment
Service
&
support
Job:	 8921_PG_06	AR_front_AW.indd	 Proof:	 10	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Rich	 Date:	 12.04.2007	
Server:	 studio	3	 Set-up:	 Rob	 First	Read/Revisons
Q How are you developing your 
international footprint?
A Our strategy is to provide dedicated service in every 
region where there is substantial market traction and 
when economies of scale can be achieved. This can also 
be achieved through cooperation with well established 
distribution networks, for the other regions. As defi ned 
with the new Board, we will be re-enforcing indirect 
distribution networks for the prepress business line, in 
order to gain a larger exposure in the CtP key markets, 
while further developing our own sales and service 
network for the Xeikon brand.
Q How are you keeping ahead 
with technology?
A Our technology leadership is clearly a key success 
factor of Punch Graphix. We are investing close to 10% 
of turnover in R&D, as well as running a number of R&D 
projects with business partners, for example with 
substrate manufacturers. We foster partnerships with 
universities and technology centres and today we have 
research activities with among others the universities of 
Brussels, Hasselt, Gent, Leuven, Rostock. Last, but not 
least, we place strong emphasis on recruiting, training 
and retaining the best experts in the areas we consider 
core and strategic.
Q&A
“ The Punch Graphix strategy is founded on four 
value-adding business streams and I see the 
integration of those streams in the interest of the 
customers as a key success factor and one of my 
main responsibilities
   ”
↘
