 04 Pure Wafer plc annual report and accounts 2006
INTRODUCTION 
High quality wafer reclaim provides an opportunity for our 
semiconductor manufacturer customers to achieve signiﬁcant 
cost savings. As expected, the semiconductor industry’s transition 
to the larger 300mm wafers continues at pace, as 300mm is 
now providing the cost standard for the majority of high volume 
semiconductor devices including semiconductor memories and 
microprocessor devices.
During the period we have qualiﬁed with two more of the world’s 
leading semiconductor manufacturers and progressed a number 
of our existing relationships. We have doubled our 300mm wafer 
output whilst 200mm wafer output has remained stable. Total wafer 
output, revenue, and PBT all continue to increase month on month.
Signiﬁcant progress has been made this year on new technology 
development supported by the introduction to manufacturing 
of the most advanced particle metrology available. Our new 
50 nanometre product offering is now in production and is expected 
to deliver a signiﬁcant contribution to our growth next year.
MARKET DYNAMICS 
The fast take up of the semiconductor industry into 300mm 
manufacturing is conﬁrmed by the frequent announcement of new 
300mm fabs. There are currently 36 300mm fabs in the world, and 
the construction of another 29 fabs has already been announced, 
most expected to be operational by the end of 2008. With the majority 
of these new facilities owned by our existing customer base, we are 
extremely well positioned to expand our business in line with the 
growth in 300mm manufacturing sites.
As several of the leading semiconductor manufacturers embrace 
new technologies to improve the speed performance of their 
products, the demand for our new 50 nanometre products is 
expected to grow over the next year.
Our 300mm revenue, the main focus of our business, grew by 79% 
over the year. As capacity tightens on 200mm products we are 
experiencing a stabilisation of prices and increased demand in this 
market segment.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Keith Baker 
Chief Executive
_0_PUR_arf06.indd   4 19/10/2006   13:55:12 05 Pure Wafer plc annual report and accounts 2006
CUSTOMERS
Important progress has been made with new customers during 
the period. We are now qualiﬁed with a signiﬁcant number of the 
world’s major semiconductor manufacturers outside of Japan, 
and our ﬁrst work has been carried out in the Chinese marketplace.
Qualiﬁcation of new customers occurred towards the end of the 
period. Volumes are ramping quickly with these new customers 
and we are continuing to make progress developing our more 
established customer relationships through our global sales network. 
NEW TECHNOLOGY
Whilst concentrating on our core business of wafer reclaim, through 
the appointment of Professor A R Peaker as chief scientiﬁc ofﬁcer 
we are exploring new products and markets for our advanced 
polishing and cleaning process which represent key enabling 
technologies for new electronic products.
The company has made some key advances in our new 
50 nanometre product development. This new process utilises 
more advanced technology than wafer reclaim, and does not 
relate to test wafers. As this new offering is substantially different to 
standard reclaim, the development costs incurred on this process 
during the year have been capitalised. These costs will be amortised 
over ﬁve years, following commencement of sales of the product.
STRATEGY FOR WAFER RECLAIM GROWTH
300mm wafer reclaim is our key focus, and we are well positioned 
in this segment that is growing as fast as had been anticipated. 
We plan to capitalise on our established position in the marketplace 
and ensure that we are able to beneﬁt from the continued strong 
growth in demand. We are also aiming to further develop the 
applications for our products to help our customers expand their use 
of wafer reclaim as a key part of their continual cost improvement 
programme. Our high performance products enable our customers 
to use reclaimed silicon in many new applications where historically 
lower quality reclaimed wafers would not be used.
200mm wafer reclaim is beginning to present some increasingly 
interesting opportunities for us. Following some price deﬂation in 
the ﬁrst half of 2005, pricing has remained stable and supply is now 
beginning to tighten in this segment. Some of our larger customers 
are keen to secure their long term supply of 200mm and 300mm 
wafers and are looking to Pure Wafer as a well invested global 
leader who can provide a reliable supply of both sizes. 
KEITH BAKER
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
18 SEPTEMBER 2006
HIGHLIGHTS
We have doubled our 300mm output in the year.
Signiﬁcant progress made on new 50nm product offering. 
Strong growth in 300mm reclaim is set to continue.
_0_PUR_arf06.indd   5 19/10/2006   13:55:30
