 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
02
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased with the progress  
we have made on delivering  
on our key strategic initiatives. 
Stephen Billingham Chairman
Corporate Governance
The Board sets itself high standards of corporate governance  
in order to facilitate effective and prudent management that 
can deliver the long term success of the company. The details  
of our compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code  
is set out in our corporate governance statement.
People
We are making good progress towards our long term objective 
to become the UK’s highest quality, most trusted and best value 
leased pub company. Delivering on this objective is only possible 
with the skills and commitment of the Punch team. The 
improvements in the level of service and support to our Partners 
that I have seen across the business in the last year is testament 
to their calibre and commitment.
I am pleased with the progress we have made on delivering on 
our key strategic initiatives. The level of activity in investment, 
Partner recruitment and food development has been particularly 
strong in the second half of the year and this high level of 
activity is continuing in the new financial year.
Having completed a detailed and thorough review of the capital 
structure options, we can now move forward to the next stage 
of the process. Discussions have already commenced with 
certain of the Group’s key stakeholders to seek their input and 
following this we will look to engage with all our stakeholders.
Board
In March, Angus Porter joined our Board as Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.  
Angus has a wealth of experience having been a Non-executive 
Director of MyTravel Group, Alliance and Leicester and  
Thomas Cook, and has held executive positions at Mars,  
British Telecom, Abbey National and WPP.
Angus replaced Mark Pain who stepped down from the Board, 
having completed his service on the Board for the transitional 
period following the demerger of the Spirit business in 2011.
We have announced the appointment of John Allkins  
to our Board as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee. 
John brings valuable experience having held senior executive 
positions at MyTravel Group, Equant NV and British Telecom.
John will replace Ian Fraser who will not be seeking re-election 
at the AGM in December and will retire from the Board after 
eight years service.
