 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
03
Business review
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Our strategy is to focus on our  
high quality, well located core  
estate of approximately 3,000 pubs. 
Roger Whiteside Chief Executive Officer
Business review
We underwent a significant reorganisation of our field teams  
in 2011 with 73% of pubs having a change of Partnership 
Development Manager (PDM) following the transfer of  
c.550 leasehold pubs to Spirit at the time of the demerger and 
the transfer of pubs to the turnaround division. This disruption  
had an impact on our rate of letting and investment activity  
in the first half of the year as our field teams improved their 
understanding of their new areas and established strong 
relationships with their new Partners. I am pleased to report 
that this slowdown in activity has been more than compensated 
for by record levels of letting and investment activity in  
the second half of the year. 
While our pubs had made strong plans to maximise the 
opportunities offered by the Jubilee and sporting events over 
the summer, these were outweighed by the impact of the wet 
weather on market demand. Notwithstanding these short-term 
challenges we continued to make good progress towards  
our long-term goal of growth in the core estate. This includes 
record levels of investment in over 400 core pubs and an 
additional 1,100 Partners joining the Punch Buying Club.  
We also benefited from a positive mix shift towards food  
during the year which was up 3 percentage points to 24%  
of Partner revenue.
We are committed to improving on the level of support we 
provide to our Partners and see this as being fundamental  
to returning the core estate to growth. We have successfully 
launched our new Punch Franchise Tenancy Agreement in  
a limited number of pubs and will roll this out nationally this 
year. We have strong plans in place to build on the progress we 
have made, including increasing the size of specialist field teams 
in the areas of investment, marketing and food development, 
the roll-out of free WiFi across our pub estate and the provision 
of non-tied goods and services through the Punch Buying Club. 
We intend to deliver these improvements without increasing  
the cost base of the business and will continue to focus on cost 
reduction as we downsize the non-core estate and improve 
back office efficiency.
Market and strategic overview
The combination of a long-term decline in drinking-out of 
approximately 3.5% per annum, changing customer behaviour, 
relative price positioning and the impact of regulation means 
that the number of pubs in the UK is expected to continue to 
decline. Whilst we believe the long-term growth in eating-out 
will continue to support the pub industry, we believe the  
benefit will favour the larger food led destination pubs and  
so a disproportionate number of the closures will be from 
smaller predominantly drinks led pubs.
 
Punch’s stated strategy is therefore to focus on its high quality, 
well located core estate of approximately 3,000 pubs. These 
pubs are well positioned to outperform the broader market 
drinks volume declines and grow food revenues. While net 
income in the core estate remained in decline this year, and  
we anticipate a comparable decline in the short-term as we 
continue to rebalance rents in the coming year, we expect a 
return to growth the following financial year. In the medium 
term, we have a clear operational plan to return the core estate 
to growth of c.2% per annum in both Partner earnings and 
Punch net income. 
The strategy for the non-core estate also remains consistent 
with a focus on maximising cash returns whilst the pubs are let, 
and then to deliver in excess of book value on the disposal of 
the pubs. The disposal programme remains on track and the 
Group expects to deliver c.£630m from the disposal of the 
2,278 pub non-core estate over the next five years of which 
£172m has already been delivered from 683 pub disposals  
over the last 18 months, against a book value of £169m.  
Whilst these pubs continue to have access to the same 
operational tools and infrastructure as the core estate, they  
are expected to continue to suffer volume declines materially 
greater than the broader market. As a result, we expect these 
pubs to continue to experience profit declines, albeit with an 
improving trend as we dispose of the worst performing  
pubs first. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
04
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
Core Turnaround Central Punch
Aug 2012 pub 
numbers 2,934 1,595 – 4,529
Revenue £377m £115m – £492m
Net income £222m £66m – £287m
EBITDA £209m £57m £(28)m £238m
Core estate
The core division comprising 2,934 pubs accounts for 79% of 
Punch outlet EBITDA. These pubs have a much higher average 
net income per pub than the turnaround estate at c.£75,000, 
and have experienced a decline in net income of 3.7% in  
the year. 
Trading performance has been impacted this year by disruption 
following the demerger of Spirit combined with the wettest 
April to June period since records began. In line with the 
performance of the core division, market statistics confirm  
a sharp decline in beer sales during this period.
Underlying performance in the business continues to be robust 
with like-for-like net income in pubs that have been on full 
substantive agreements for more than one year being down just 
1%. Within this, trading in the South of England continues to 
outperform the rest of the UK.
Despite the difficult market conditions the level of pub failures 
remains in line with last year. The majority of these pubs will 
receive investment to reposition their offering in their local 
marketplace and are currently in the process of being re-let on 
full substantive agreements. As at the year end date 94% of  
the pubs in the core estate were let on substantive agreements, 
leaving 183 core pubs (6%) available for letting of which 73 
have new Partners in place awaiting legal completion.
Throughout the year, management actions have been focused 
on delivering our four key objectives:
i)  Investing to improve the customer environment and 
increase food sales: We invested in over 400 core pubs 
during the year and increased our average spend per pub to 
£90,000, with the rate of investment having accelerated in 
the second half of the year. Our focus has been on new lets 
where there is an opportunity to invest to improve food 
participation and the consumer environment. 
  Alongside increased investment in the core estate, we are 
increasing the level of pub support, providing more influence 
over the customer offer. We are in the process of introducing 
dedicated Pub Launch Teams to help design and implement 
the full customer offer including product ranging, events 
planning, service delivery and promotional activity.
  Food sales represent a significant opportunity for our 
Partners and we have a 5 year target to increase the food 
sales mix to 35% of Partner revenue. Our catering experts 
have performed 1,900 Partner visits in the year to develop 
the food offer, increasing the estimated food sales mix in 
our pubs by 3% to 24% of Partner revenue. Our strategy  
is to improve the food offering across our estate, using 
managed house principles and supporting our Partners  
with food specifications and menu costing. 
 
ii)   Attracting high quality Partners: The core estate remains 
stable with pub failures remaining in line with previous years 
and an average tenure of over 5 years. New applicant 
enquiries continue to be very strong at approximately  
400 enquiries per month, representing a 25% increase 
compared to the prior year and we are experiencing a trend 
moving back towards long leases. We now have over 200  
of our Punch Buying Club leases in place which reward our 
Partners for outperformance and our new agreements are 
attracting an increased interest from small multiple pub 
operators and micro brewers alike. Our recruitment website 
has been completely overhauled and will be re-launched in 
October with greatly enhanced CRM capabilities.
iii)   Driving sales growth: The use of the Punch Buying Club 
has doubled in the year with 45% of our drinks orders now 
being taken online, up from 21% as at August 2011. The 
Punch Buying Club now has 2,800 Partners and gives access 
to exclusive deals, and through the Punch Buying Club blog 
Partners can provide feedback on issues, seek advice, share 
best practice and access exclusive marketing and point of 
sale materials. 
  The product offers, marketing and promotional support  
we offer our Partners have proved extremely popular  
with 48% of our Partners attending our industry leading 
roadshows, a doubling in our design and print service and 
record participation in sales activities such as the UK’s 
largest darts competition (up 12%), quiz nights (up 72%) 
and SIBA cask ale sales (up 40%).
iv)   Effective Punch support: Partnership Development 
Managers (PDMs) are key to driving the performance of  
our pubs. We have invested in industry leading training  
in partnership with the BII, piloting the first Level 4 
qualification in Multiple Retail Management, which we 
expect all of our PDMs to complete by the end of this year. 
  The new Punch Franchise Tenancy agreement has been 
successfully launched, aimed at community local pubs and 
new entrants to the sector. This fully supported open book 
agreement provides more support to our Partners and 
increases our influence over the customer offer. Initial results 
in the limited number of pubs with the new agreement have 
been encouraging and we aim to roll it out nationally  
this year.
  In a drive to support our Partners to improve retail standards 
in our pubs we introduced a mystery visit programme this 
year providing independent feedback on the consumer 
experience and beer quality. The programme which has 
been well received and clearly demonstrates the link 
between high retail standards and pub performance  
will be rolled out across the core estate this year.
  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
05
Business review
 Building on the success of the Punch Buying Club, we are now 
extending the services and range of products we offer to 
include the roll-out of free WiFi across our pub estate and the 
provision of further non-tied goods and services. Through the 
Buying Club we are committed to simplifying the administrative 
burden for our existing and prospective Partners and to drive 
down the cost to our Partners of running a pub.
Turnaround estate
The turnaround division comprising 1,595 pubs with a book 
value of £469m accounts for 21% of Punch outlet EBITDA. 
These pubs are predominately small, wet led and have a much 
lower average net income per pub at c.£36,000 and which 
have declined by 9% in the last financial year. Given the limited 
scope for investment, these pubs are more likely to be impacted 
by the long-term decline in drinking out and as a result are 
expected in time to generate more value through disposal  
than retention. 
Since we created the turnaround division we have further 
refined our operating strategy, segmenting the division into two 
groups, ‘sell now / sell later’ and ‘protect and grow’. The ‘sell 
now / sell later’ pubs (1,029 pubs) will be sold over the next 1-3 
years while the ‘protect and grow’ pubs (566 pubs) will be held 
and operated over the near-term and sold over the next 3-5 
years. This additional segmentation supports our objectives of 
maximising our profits for as long as we own the pub, including 
limited targeted investment in ‘protect and grow’ pubs and in 
optimising our disposal proceeds by selling at the right time.
Maximising short-term returns: While these non-core pubs 
remain in our portfolio, we remain committed to driving 
operating performance and maximising the profits from  
these outlets. Net income in non-core pubs on substantive 
agreements is broadly stable with all the decline coming  
from non-substantive pubs in the process of disposal.
Maximising value on disposal: During the year we sold  
475 pubs, together with other assets for proceeds of £130m, 
£1m ahead of book value. The disposed pubs generated  
just £7.4m of EBITDA over the last 12 months, equating to  
a disposal multiple of 18x, demonstrating the accretive nature 
of these disposals.
We are on track with our disposal programme in extracting 
maximum value from our non-core assets in line with book 
value and reducing our estate down to c.3,000 core pubs within 
the next 5 years. We aim to sell c.400 non-core pubs in the 
2012-2013 financial year.
Matthew Clark joint venture
Matthew Clark, the 50% joint venture with Accolade, owned 
by Champ Private Equity, continues to perform satisfactorily  
in a very competitive market providing a post-tax contribution 
to Punch of £3.4m for the year. Matthew Clark has significant 
scale in its marketplace as the largest independent drinks 
wholesaler and distributor to the UK leisure and hospitality 
industry, with gross annual turnover of c.£700m and c.20,000 
customers. Turnover increased by 9% in the joint venture’s  
last financial year and the business has clear plans for continued 
growth in market share from which Punch will benefit.
Regulatory
Punch is committed to developing a responsible approach in 
working with our Partners and in the marketplace in which we 
operate. Our BIIBAS accredited Code of Practice is now firmly 
embedded in the business and lays out clearly what our Partners 
should expect from us when committing to a lease agreement. 
Our Code of Practice goes further than the requirements of the 
Industry Framework Code, which has been made legally binding 
in the year.
Further progress has been made towards self regulation with 
two complaint review bodies now available to licensees. PIRRS 
exists to provide low cost resolution for rent disputes and our 
Partners are now able to take complaints relating to any other 
part of our Code of Practice to PICAS.
Punch continues to play a full role in the pub sector through 
membership of the BBPA and support for the BII, ALMR and 
FLVA. Pubs play a vital role in the economy providing local 
employment particularly for young people and we continue  
to engage with Government on the need for investment in the 
sector as a key part of the wider growth agenda for the UK 
economy. We believe the economic case for reduction in VAT  
in the hospitality sector is compelling with the potential to 
create thousands of new jobs and have given our full support  
to the VAT Club campaign led by Jacques Borel. 
Social responsibility
Pubs play a vital role at the heart of the community and Punch 
continues to support key initiatives such as Pub is the Hub and 
work with the Licensed Trade Charity. Our pubs are significant 
contributors to local fund raising with many of them recording 
their achievements through PubAid. Our teams in our support 
centre in Burton are also involved in the local community 
providing help to local causes through the Punch Community 
Promise Scheme. 
We believe that pubs provide a safe supervised environment  
for the consumption of alcohol and Punch is committed to the 
Alcohol Responsibility agenda providing support to Drinkaware 
and the Portman Group. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
06
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
Capital structure review 
Objectives
During the year, the Board appointed Goldman Sachs and 
Blackstone as advisors to assist in undertaking a detailed review 
of the options to optimise the Group’s capital structure. This 
review examined (i) Punch’s current business strategy in light  
of current and expected operating conditions; and (ii) Punch’s 
current capital structure position.
The key objective of the review was to identify all options that 
could deliver shareholder and wider stakeholder value and to 
assess them against the following criteria:
• Creation of a sustainable capital structure; and
• Feasibility of successful execution.
Current capital structure 
The Group is financed through two whole business 
securitisations, the Punch A Securitisation (£1,477m of gross 
debt) and the Punch B Securitisation (£914m of gross debt),  
as well as certain cash resources held across the Group.  
As at the year end, the Group held £264m of cash resources  
(of which £90m was held outside the securitisation structures), 
compared to loan amortisation due within 1 year of £57m.  
In addition to cash resources held outside the securitisations, 
Punch also holds a 50% interest in the Matthew Clark  
joint venture. 
The majority of the trading assets of the Group are held in the 
two securitisation structures, and whilst the securitisations 
generated underlying profits and positive net cash flow (before 
debt repayments and disposals) in the year, they required 
financial support through the use of cash resources held outside 
of the securitisations to maintain compliance with their DSCR 
(Debt Service Cover Ratio) covenants. Without this support, 
both the Punch A and Punch B Securitisations would have 
breached their respective DSCR covenant levels in the year. 
August 2012
Punch A
 securitisation
Punch B 
securitisation
Reported 2-qtr DSCR  
(including support) 1.36x 1.51x
Underlying 2-qtr DSCR  
excluding support 1.08x 1.05x
DSCR covenant level 1.25x 1.25x
Net support from cash resources held outside of the 
securitisations amounted to £21m for the year, being £79m  
of gross support less £58m of cash payments from the 
securitisations to the wider Group during the year. Given 
expectations for the level of performance of the Group and the 
anticipated debt service requirements, it is expected that the 
level of support required will increase in the next financial year.
While this financial support provides valuable time to identify 
appropriate legal and capital restructuring options, it is not 
sustainable over the medium to long-term. A restructuring  
of both securitisations is therefore required in order to avoid  
a covenant default and deliver value to stakeholders. 
Since the year end, the Group has continued to provide financial 
support to the securitisations to allow restructuring options  
to be developed. The continuation of that support into each 
securitisation will continue to be reviewed on a regular basis  
in light of all relevant circumstances. 
Status of the review
The scope of the review undertaken by the Board has been 
extensive with a number of alternatives considered. While  
no decision has been taken as to the preferred solution to 
restructure the Group’s capital structure, the following 
conclusions have been drawn from the review:
•  Both securitisations are over levered and unsustainable in 
their current form;
•  Significant amendments to each of the Punch A and Punch B 
securitisation structures are necessary, including one or more 
of a material reduction in debt, an increase in the maturities 
of the debt and changes to the financial covenants; 
•  Although both the Punch A and Punch B securitisations need 
to be restructured, given the differences in their stakeholder 
profiles, their legal and financial structures and the 
contractual linkages between them and the wider Group, the 
optimal restructuring solution and implementation timetable 
may differ for each securitisation;
•  Proposed changes to the capital structure should be 
developed for both the Punch A and Punch B securitisation 
structures to protect the material financial and operational 
benefits that both enjoy as being part of the wider group;
•  Operational covenant amendments are also required to allow 
the securitised businesses to continue to maximise returns 
through further investment in the core estate and the 
ongoing disposal of non-core assets;
•  The Board believes that it is likely that a covenant default 
would have a material adverse impact on the value of the 
underlying businesses; and
•  While the Group continues to maintain significant cash 
balances, providing time and optionality, it is preferable  
to work towards identifying a preferred solution as soon as 
practicable so that any uncertainty around potential changes 
to the legal and capital structure of the securitisations does 
not impact on the underlying performance of what is a very 
profitable and high quality pub business.
Given the adverse impact that a covenant default could have on 
all stakeholders, the Board believes that it is in the best interests 
of the stakeholders to pursue a consensual restructuring 
solution. On the basis of the dialogue with stakeholders to date, 
the Board remains confident that a restructuring can be 
successfully implemented.
Next steps and discussions with stakeholders
The Board is mindful that uncertainty around the Group’s 
capital structure could have a negative impact on the Group’s 
underlying business and that as a result it is likely to be in the 
best interest of all stakeholders to identify and implement a 
preferred solution to restructure the Group’s capital structure  
as soon as practicable.
As part of the review process, the Board initiated discussions 
with certain of its major shareholders and other significant 
stakeholders to seek their input on the range of options under 
consideration. While these discussions have assisted the Board 
in reaching the conclusions set out today they remain ongoing. 
At the appropriate time, the Board will be initiating a process  
to identify debt holders in both the Punch A and Punch B 
securitisations and extending these discussions to the 
bondholders in both securitisations.
