 06 Pure Wafer plc  Annual report and accounts 2010
Operational review
The financial year to 30 June 2010 proved to 
be a period of recovery as the semiconductor 
industry shook off the burden of the deepest 
decline in its history, as the world economic 
turmoil eased. 
Volume sales recovered during the year 
with 300mm wafer reclaim up by 20% when 
compared to the prior year, and 200mm wafer 
reclaim up 11%. Whilst we were encouraged 
by the start to the year, the second half of the 
year saw an even stronger recovery with 
increases in both 300mm and 200mm 
volumes, compared to the first half, of 21% 
and 16% respectively.
We commenced the year with all employees 
on short time working for the first quarter, but 
volumes recovered sufficiently for full time and 
pay to be reinstated during the second quarter. 
I would like to thank all our employees for agreeing 
to support the short time working initiative, 
enabling Pure Wafer to continue to trade 
competitively throughout this difficult year, 
whilst retaining our staff.
Despite selling prices stabilising and downward 
pressure evaporating in the second half of the year, 
the brutal price reductions that we experienced 
during 2008 and 2009 meant that the year 
concluded with stable but low selling prices, 
which necessitated the company continuing 
to concentrate on reducing its cost base. 
As volumes recovered we have absorbed 
these without increasing headcount, thus 
benefiting from cost efficiencies through higher 
productivity. Our ongoing engineering led cost 
reduction activities have enabled us to reduce 
the consumable costs per wafer and certain 
fixed costs, all without affecting the quality 
of the group’s product offering. These activities 
have resulted in an overall reduction in the unit 
cost per wafer of 20% compared with the 
prior year.
Highlights
›  Sales volumes have recovered:
 –  300mm up by 20% and 200mm up 
by 11% when compared to prior year; and
 –  strong increases in volumes second half 
over first half.
›  No downward pressure on selling prices in 
second half.
›  Cost reductions continued leading to 20% 
reduction in cost per unit compared to 
prior year. 
›  Development and launch of our UK 
manufactured, lowest carbon footprint 
solar products.
›  Group banking arrangements have 
been restructured:
 –  existing debt rescheduled over 
a six year period including up 
to two year capital moratorium; and
 –  overdraft facilities of £1.4m agreed.
›  Successful placing and open offer of 
shares raised £1.99m, before costs, for 
working capital.
›  Business now stabilised with low cost 
of manufacture, in a recovering market, 
with significant installed capacity.
Market
We have made significant progress in increasing 
our 300mm wafer reclaim market share in the 
US, from our Prescott, Arizona facility, where 
we are actively engaged with every major 
300mm integrated chip manufacturer which 
has a manufacturing presence in the US. The 
Prescott facility is now fully equipped for large 
scale 300mm production, with the quality of 
offering equal to the stringent requirements of 
our blue chip customer base, and we envisage 
further significant market gains.
There have been some significant corporate 
failures within the competitive landscape, 
with competitors either voluntarily leaving 
the wafer reclaim market or through chapter 11 
arrangements. The effect of these changes, 
which have resulted in Pure Wafer having the 
only wafer reclaim facilities in both Europe and 
US with the capacity and capability to service 
Chief executive’s review
Pure Wafer is now stabilised with a lower cost of 
manufacture, in a recovering market, and with a 
significant installed capacity. 07 Annual report and accounts 2010  Pure Wafer plc
the high end blue chip customers, will certainly 
have a significant effect on the supply and 
demand balance worldwide. As customer 
specification requirements tighten, the capacity 
of high quality reclaim services is restricted still 
further to wafer reclaim companies who have 
both the technical know how and the relevant 
measurement equipment to produce an 
offering to the quality required.
With the group’s current installed capacity for 
300mm and smaller diameter wafers at Pure 
Wafer’s high quality facilities in Swansea and 
Prescott, Arizona, together with the reduced 
cost per wafer, the Board believe that the 
company is well placed for future growth.
new products
The development of our solar products, and 
the establishment of the manufacturing lines, 
are progressing well, with a great deal of 
interest for our lowest carbon, UK manufactured 
products. We have recently received confirmation 
that our products have performed well in the 
stringent testing requirements which are needed 
for Microgeneration Certification Scheme (MCS) 
certification, which is required for installations to 
qualify for the government backed feed-in-tariff. 
We see this as an exciting addition to our portfolio 
of products and are confident that it will provide 
significant revenue and profitability to the group.
Peter HarrInG tOn
Group chief executive
28 October 2010
Highlights
›  Successful cost reductions and productivity improvements 
leading to 20% reduction in unit costs
› Launch of our low carbon solar products
› Selling price pressure stopped
