 2       Pure Wafer plc   Annual report and financial statements 2013
Introduction
The year to 30 June 2013 was a transformational one 
for Pure Wafer, and I am delighted to announce very 
encouraging	financial	results	which	move	the	Company	
firmly	back	into	pre-tax	profitability.	
The forecast global growth in the semiconductor 
industry was in evidence during the period, enabling 
Pure Wafer to continue to enjoy increasing and sustained 
demand for its wafer reclaim services, particularly in Asia 
and the United States.  These market conditions have 
enabled Pure Wafer to consolidate its position within 
the semiconductor industry as one of the leading wafer 
reclaim companies in the world.
I am also pleased to report that, once again both 
manufacturing sites in Swansea and Prescott have 
continued to run at record levels of productivity, which 
together with the ongoing close management of overall 
cost levels, has resulted in Pure Wafer’s cost per wafer 
running at an all-time low for the fourth successive 
year,	providing	further	confidence	in	the	strength	of	the	
business going forward. 
During the period we substantially reduced Group debt 
and changed our banking arrangements, negotiating 
favourable terms and facilities in the process, the 
combined	 effect	 of	 which	 has	 been	 to	 dramatically	
reduce	our	cost	of	finance	and	increase	free	cash	flow.	
This in turn has enabled us to announce our strategy 
of	investing	in	new	equipment	to	significantly	increase	
our manufacturing capacity at both the Swansea and 
Prescott, Arizona sites, allowing Pure Wafer to take 
full advantage of the well documented continued and 
sustained growth in our industry. 
The	 Group’s	 much	 improved	 financial	 performance	
and cash generation, combined with a very successful 
share	 placing	 and	 open	 offer	 last	 November,	 have	
helped to strengthen the balance sheet to such a degree 
that we were able to complete its restructure  by the 
cancellation of the share premium account. This will 
enable the payment of dividends in the future, provided 
that	 the	 Board	 is	 satisfied	 that	 such	 payments	 are	 in	
the best interests of the Company, taking into account 
all circumstances including the Company’s investment 
plans,	cash	flow	projections	and	continuing	compliance	
with its funding agreements.
During	 the	 financial	 year	 Pure	 Wafer’s	 solar	 business	
saw	a	significant	reduction	in	revenues	as	the	combined	
effect	 of	 UK	 Government	 indecision	 over	 the	 feed-
in-tariff	 and	 the	 influx	 of	 below	 cost	 Chinese	 imports	
resulted in an insecure market especially in the domestic 
sector. We therefore re-focused Pure Wafer’s solar 
division marketing strategy, targeting commercial and 
local authority clients and others with multiple buildings, 
which has shown a level of success.
The	key	financial	performance	indicators	monitored	by	
the Board are as follows:
• Turnover (Group) $37.0m (2012: $35.8m)
• Turnover (Wafer reclaim) $36.1m (2012: $33.4m)
• EBITDA $6.3m (2012: $6.0m)
• Operating	profit	$3.1m	(2012:	$0.5m)
• Pre-tax	profit	$3.0m	(2012:	loss	of	$0.7m)
• Net debt $1.6m (2012: $12.5m)
• Basic earnings per share 1.4c (2012: loss per share 
0.2c) 
• Cash	 inflow	 from	 operating	 activities	 $5.9m	 (2012:	
$5.7m)
Each	 of	 these	 key	 indicators	 show	 a	 significant	
improvement over the prior year, and the Board is 
encouraged by the actions of the management team 
during the period to take advantage of market conditions 
to maximise revenue whilst continuing to reduce costs 
across all sectors of the business. 
Chairman’s statement
2013 was a transformational year for Pure Wafer 
which	 moved	 the	 Company	 firmly	back into pre-tax 
profitability Annual report and financial statements 2013  Pure Wafer plc       3
Group funding
During the period, on the back of a continually improving 
trading performance and a positive long-term outlook 
for the semiconductor industry, we were able to 
complete	a	successful	share	placing	and	open	offer	last	 	
November which raised $7.5m before expenses. These 
funds were utilised to repay our asset funders Lloyds, 
GE and CIT in full and partially repay RBS and Citizens 
Bank, fully restructuring and strengthening our balance 
sheet.
Furthermore,	with	a	significantly	reduced	debt	position	
we	were	able	to	refinance	and	consolidate	our	remaining	
debts with HSBC by way of a $5.6m term loan over 4 
years.	 The	 facilities	 offered	 by	 HSBC	 also	 included	 a	
$1.6m revolving facility which is available to be drawn 
upon for any capital expenditure requirements.
In repaying the asset funders and banks from the 
proceeds	 of	 the	 placing	 and	 open	 offer	 and	 the	
refinancing,	 we	 negotiated	 certain	 discounts	 and	 fee	
waivers which resulted in savings of $1.0m and an annual 
cash	 flow	 benefit	 of	 $3.9m,	 a	 significant	 achievement	
which will contribute towards the long term stability of 
the Company.
This funding will allow additional investment in plant 
and equipment and has enabled the Company to revisit 
the	estimated	useful	lives	of	our	fixed	assets,	resulting	in	
a reduced annual depreciation charge of $2.3m.
I would like to thank shareholders for their continued 
support	which	enabled	this	financial	restructuring	to	be	
successfully completed, putting Pure Wafer in a much 
stronger	 financial	 position	 and,	 importantly,	 with	 the	
ability to invest for future success.
Management
I	would	also	like	to	thank	the	entire	staff	for	their	support	
and	efforts	during	a	year	in	which	volumes	have	shown	
continued growth,  productivity has reached record 
levels  and  further cost reductions have been achieved. 
These	efforts	are	reflected	in	the	strong	financial	results	
for the period.
Outlook
With industry analysts forecasting many years of 
sequential growth for the industry fuelled by the world’s 
ever increasing demand for technology advances, 
especially from the emerging economies, the outlook 
for	further	profitable	growth	is	encouraging.
With our installed capacity, our planned capacity 
increases,	our	market-leading	offering	and	our	low	cost	
of manufacturing, Pure Wafer is very well placed to take 
advantage of a stable and growing global market.
Since	 the	 year-end,	 demand	 for	 our	 product	 offering	
has remained strong with additional opportunities for 
profitable	 growth	 especially	 from	 Asia	 and	 the	 large	
foundry	 sector.	 We	 are	 confident	 that	 these	 levels	 of	
demand	will	continue	throughout	this	financial	year	and	
beyond.
We fully expect that Pure Wafer’s solar division will 
continue to produce results in line with management 
expectations during the current year despite the 
uncertainty	 over	 the	 UK	 Government’s	 long	 term	
position	 on	 feed-in-tariffs.	 	 The	 reputation	 that	 Pure	
Wafer has quickly gained in this sector has resulted in 
many orders being placed with a number of exciting 
opportunities in both commercial and public sector 
projects for the upcoming period.
The	 Board	 is	 confident	 that	 the	 Group	 will	 make	
further substantial progress in the current year. A 
much strengthened balance sheet, continued strong 
cash generation combined with stringent cost controls, 
investment to increase manufacturing capacity and a 
growing market together give Pure Wafer an excellent 
platform	for	further	growth	and	improved	profitability.
These factors give Pure Wafer a strong foundation on 
which to move forward, and build upon for further 
growth	and	improved	profitability.
Stephen Boyd
Chairman
1 October 2013
