 04 Pure Wafer plc  Annual report and accounts 2008
Introduction
The year to 30 June 2008, particularly the 
second half of the financial year, was one of the 
most challenging for Pure Wafer as the industry 
experienced a continued slowdown in the 
semiconductor market, cutbacks in capital 
spending, a steep decline in chip prices, 
a weak US dollar, record high oil prices 
and a tightening of the availability of credit. 
As these conditions deteriorated we saw 
increased competition, a marked reduction 
in wafer volume orders, intense pressure on 
our selling prices, increased freight costs and 
the adverse impact of a weak US Dollar.
A key fundamental of wafer reclaim as 
a cost-saving service to semiconductor 
manufacturers remains. Transition from 200mm 
to 300mm silicon wafers for the production of 
semiconductors going forward continues and 
bodes well for the future. However, it has 
become clear to us that the recovery in the 
industry is likely to take longer than first 
envisaged, a view shared by industry analysts.
Financial results
› Turnover £22.3m (2007: £22.3m)
› EBITDA £3.1m (2007: £5.8m)
› Operating profit £0.2m (2007: £3.5m)
› Pre-tax loss £0.8m (2007: £3.6m profit)
›  Pre-tax loss £0.1m before restructuring costs 
and other losses (2007: £3.2m profit)
›  Basic loss per share 23.1p (2007: earnings 
per share 10.5p) 
›  Net cash inflow from operating activities 
£1.7m (2007: £4.3m)
Whilst the results are disappointing following 
a satisfactory first half to the financial year, 
the board are encouraged by the actions of the 
management team during the second half to 
reduce the impact of the adverse market conditions.
Group funding
The current trading environment is challenging; 
however, to the date of approving the financial 
statements, the group has continued to meet its 
capital and interest repayments on all its debt. 
During the year, the group has recorded a 
pre-tax loss and has relied on waivers of 
loan covenant tests at 30 June 2008 and 
30 September 2008 in order to stay in line 
with banking facility arrangements. As we 
announced in June 2008, the board continues 
to be in discussions with its principal lenders. 
The current management forecasts for the 
remainder of the year to 30 June 2009 indicate 
that the company needs to reschedule the 
capital repayments of debt, including the letter 
of credit for $1.95m (being the final deferred 
consideration of the acquisition of the USA 
facility which falls due in February 2009), 
and may also need to obtain waivers of future 
covenant tests. The directors have instituted 
measures to preserve cash and continue to 
negotiate the rescheduling of our current 
debt obligations. 
Preliminary approach and strategic options
The board has received a preliminary 
indicative approach to acquire Pure Wafer plc. 
Whilst negotiations are in progress, there can 
be no certainty that an offer will be made. 
The directors are also pursuing alternative 
strategic options and sources of finance in 
the event that neither the offer for the business, 
nor a restructuring of existing borrowing 
facilities, can be arranged. No commitment 
has been secured to date and we will update 
shareholders when it is appropriate to do so.
Management
In November 2007, we announced that 
Keith Baker would be stepping down as 
group chief executive officer to take up his role 
as group chief operating officer to focus on the 
day-to-day running of the Swansea and Arizona 
sites. Peter Harrington, a co-founder of the business 
and formerly Strategic Developments director, 
replaced Keith as group chief executive officer.
We have further strengthened our board during 
the period with the addition of Stephen Young 
as interim group finance officer in April 2008, 
replacing James Dearing; he is a chartered 
management accountant (CIMA) and an 
experienced public company finance director, 
whose previous position was with British Biocell 
International (formerly BBI Holdings plc).
Following the period-end in July 2008, we 
announced that Giles Clarke would be stepping 
down from his position of non-executive chairman 
to deputy chairman; Eurfyl ap Gwilym was 
appointed as non-executive chairman in his place. 
Eurfyl has served on the Pure Wafer board since its 
IPO in December 2004 in the roles of non-executive 
director, chairman of the remuneration committee 
and deputy chairman of the board.
In October 2008 we announced the appointment 
of Stephen Boyd to the board as a non-executive 
director, effective from 1 October 2008. Stephen, 
aged 58, a chemical engineer by training, having 
gained a 1st class honours degree in chemical 
engineering at Imperial College, London, has 
Chairman’s statement
Pure Wafer has undertaken a full operational 
restructuring process to reflect the situation in 
the market; progress has been made to reduce 
costs and the business is now more efficiently 
structured to reflect current demand.  05 Annual report and accounts 2008  Pure Wafer plc
Highlights
›  Satisfactory first half financial year
›  Transition from 200mm to 300mm silicon wafers continues
›  Significant board changes
worked in a number of manufacturing industries 
including five years as group chief executive of 
Capital Industries plc. Stephen currently sits on 
a number of boards of both public and private 
companies, mainly in the technology sector, 
and is currently chairman of Pittards plc.
I would like to thank the entire team for their 
support and effort during the challenging year. 
Outlook
Trading for the first half of the 2009 financial year 
has been encouraging to date, although the 
outlook for the semiconductor industry remains 
difficult as the global economy continues to face 
turbulence and uncertainties. The downturn in 
the industry, coupled with an over-supply of wafer 
reclaim capacity, has continued to put pressure 
on pricing and volumes during the current 
financial year and we do not expect an early 
market-wide recovery in the industry.
Pure Wafer has undertaken a full operational 
restructuring process to reflect the situation in 
the market; progress has been made to reduce 
costs and the business is now more efficiently 
structured to reflect current demand. These actions, 
together with the 300mm capacity installed at 
both our facilities in the UK and the USA, put 
Pure Wafer in a good position to take advantage 
of the industry recovery going forward.
The US Dollar has significantly strengthened 
against Sterling since 30 June 2008 and, 
should this remain, will have a positive impact 
on revenue and cash flow going forward.
EUrFyl AP GWIlyM
Non-executive chairman
19 December 2008
