 2       Pure Wafer plc   Annual report and accounts 2011
Pure Wafer at a glance
The company has an established 
track record, two of the worlds most 
advanced wafer reclaim facilities and a 
blue chip customer base that includes 
the majority of the worlds largest 
semiconductor manufacturers and 
independent foundries. As a business 
partner , Pure Wafer works with its 
customers to design and develop a 
service that delivers reclaimed wafers 
to the exacting specifications and high 
standards required by today’s leading 
semiconductor manufacturers. 
Our history
Pure Wafer was established in 2000 by 
a management team widely experienced 
in the semiconductor industry with the 
backing of strategic investment from 
Venture Capital and Industry partners.
The group floated on AIM in December 
2004 and February 2007 Pure Wafer 
completed the acquisition of a wafer 
reclaim facility in Arizona, US.
Our facilities
The UK business operates from a state of 
the art, purpose built facility situated in 
a technology park in Swansea, Wales and 
is the most advanced plant of its kind in 
Europe. The size of the facility is in excess 
of 4,500m
2
 and includes over 2,000m
2
 of 
production cleanrooms.
The facility in Prescott, Arizona was 
constructed in 1997 and has received 
in excess of $50m of investment since 
then. The high-volume high-tech fab 
was originally designed for 200mm and 
smaller diameter wafer reclaim services, 
but following the acquisition by Pure 
Wafer in 2007 capability to reclaim 
300mm wafers has been installed.
We have installed the latest generation 
of tools available on the market, with 
the most advanced equipment as used 
by integrated chip (IC) and prime silicon 
producers. With the highest technical 
specifications, we are positioned to offer 
the most effective wafer reclaim services 
to our customers with minimal silicon 
removal. This enables our customers to 
maximise the number of times a test 
wafer can be reclaimed.
Pure Wafer is a worldwide leader in the provision of 300mm 
wafer reclaim services. These services enable semiconductor 
manufacturers to gain efficiencies through the increased use 
of silicon test wafers within their production processes. Annual report and accounts 2011  Pure Wafer plc       3
Our process
At Pure Wafer our process for reclaiming 
test wafers involves the following key 
stages:
Inspection of the wafers for defects •	
and classification by type of 
contaminant to be removed
Submersion in a precise mix of •	
chemicals appropriate to remove the 
contaminant 
Assessment of flatness and •	
correction of defects using Pure 
Wafer’s advanced polishing processes
Cleaning and drying •	
Final quality inspection and •	
packaging for return to the customer
Wafer reclaim
During the many stages of the manufacturing process of 
semiconductors, large quantities of test wafers are used to check 
the accurate calibration of equipment. These test wafers are a key 
consumable in the manufacture of semiconductors and the ability 
to reclaim them through Pure Wafer’s advanced process provides 
manufacturers with the opportunity to reduce costs.
The semiconductor industry transition to 300mm wafers in now 
well advanced. In order for manufacturers to continue to increase 
functionality at a reduced cost, the industry has sought to increase 
the size of wafers on which semiconductors are manufactured. 
300mm wafer processing now represents the fastest growing area 
of the semiconductor industry.
However , wafer reclaim is a highly specialised and technically 
sophisticated process. Only a few companies worldwide are 
able to meet the exacting standards required by semiconductor 
manufacturers for the reclaim of 300mm wafers, of which Pure 
Wafer is one.
