 06 Pure Wafer plc  Annual report and accounts 2009
Operational review
The financial year ended June 2009 proved to 
be a difficult period as the semiconductor industry 
suffered the most severe and sharp decline in 
its history, following the world economic turmoil 
during our first quarter.
Volume sales were severely affected during 
the period with 300mm wafer reclaim down 
by 22% when compared to the prior year, and 
200mm wafer reclaim down 11%. Whilst we 
saw a promising start to the period for volume 
sales, the second half of the year was severely 
affected. We saw a rapid decline in the third 
quarter, finally stabilising with a small recovery 
by the financial year end.
During a year of difficult trading conditions, 
the company concentrated on reducing its cost 
base. The board undertook a further operational 
restructuring process during the year ended 
30 June 2009, which has further reduced the 
production costs per wafer and thus enhanced 
the competitiveness of the group’s products. Further 
successful, engineering-led cost reduction activities 
have enabled us to reduce the consumable 
costs per wafer and certain fixed costs, all without 
affecting the quality of the group’s product offering.
In conjunction with the operational restructuring 
and due to low production volume requirements 
we implemented short time working during the 
second half of the period, where all employees 
took periods of unpaid leave each month. 
This was to maintain the essential level of skill 
base within the business required to produce 
a quality product, whilst giving cost savings 
proportional to volume trading.
I would like to thank all our employees for 
supporting the short-time working initiative, 
enabling Pure Wafer to continue to trade 
competitively throughout this difficult period.
Highlights
›  Group banking arrangements have 
been restructured:
 ›  existing debt rescheduled over a six year 
period, including up to two year 
capital moratorium.
 ›  additional facilities of £1.4m agreed.
›  Successful placement and open offer 
of shares raised £2.0m before costs 
for working capital.
›  UK site in Swansea has been operationally 
restructured, whilst maintaining 
operational efficiency.
›  US operation in Prescott, Arizona, has qualified 
to act as a supplier to the majority of US 
semiconductor manufacturers, with volume 
production ramping.
›  Significant and successful cost reduction 
activities across the group’s operational activities.
›  The US Dollar strengthened against Sterling 
during the period.
›  Business now stabilised and, with significant 
installed capacity, is ready to take advantage 
of the upswing in the semiconductor market.
Market
Despite the downturn we have made 
significant progress in increasing our 300mm 
wafer reclaim market share in the US, from our 
Prescott, Arizona facility. The Prescott facility 
is now fully equipped for large scale 300mm 
production and, with the quality of offering equal 
to the stringent requirements of our blue chip 
customer base, we envisage further significant 
market gains.
Whilst there have been some corporate 
failures within the competitive landscape, 
there still remains a worldwide overcapacity 
of wafer reclaim services, which in turn is 
reflected in continued pressure on selling 
prices. However, as customer specification 
requirements increase, the capacity of high 
quality reclaim services is restricted to wafer 
manufacturers who have both the technical 
know how and the relevant measurement 
equipment to produce an offering to the 
quality required.
Chief executive’s review
Pure Wafer is well placed to take advantage 
of any industry upturn following its operational 
restructuring together with significant and 
successful cost reduction activities.
_1_PUR_ar09_Front.indd   6 20/11/2009   13:50:54 07 Annual report and accounts 2009  Pure Wafer plc
With the group’s current installed capacity 
for 300mm and smaller diameter wafers 
at Pure Wafer’s high quality facilities in 
Swansea and Prescott, Arizona, together 
with the reduced cost per wafer, the board 
believes that the company is well placed 
to take advantage of any industry recovery.
new products
We continue to explore new opportunities 
outside our core business of wafer reclaim, 
to enhance our portfolio of products. We are 
looking at areas where we have certainty 
of the end market and where we will not 
incur significant research and development 
costs. We are confident that we can deliver 
new product developments in areas of global 
growth, compatible with our existing core skills 
and world-class manufacturing equipment 
and facilities.
Peter HarrInG tOn
Group chief executive
19 november 2009
Highlights
›  Arizona site gains further market share
›  Successful lowering of unit costs
›  Business now stabilised with market recovery expected
_1_PUR_ar09_Front.indd   7 20/11/2009   13:51:02
