 6       Pure Wafer plc   Annual report and accounts 2011
Chief Executive’s review
Operational Review
The financial year to June 2011 continued 
the upward trend that we enjoyed during 
last financial year with continued growth 
in volumes across all diameter sizes of 
wafers both in Swansea and Prescott as 
the semiconductor industry continued to 
grow. 
Volume sales for the Group grew during 
the period with 300mm wafer reclaim 
up by 27% when compared to the prior 
year , and 200mm wafer reclaim up 24%. 
Whilst we were encouraged by the volume 
sales for the first half of the year, the 
second half of the year saw even stronger 
growth with increases on 300mm of 22% 
when compared to the first half.
A significant challenge for our operational 
teams was to process the additional 
and growing volumes whilst maintaining 
the cost reductions and benefits gained 
during the prior periods, in a market 
where our suppliers were requesting 
price increases for the majority of our 
consumable items. I am very pleased to 
report that we managed to build on our 
past successes and reduce costs per 
wafer even further by 10% compared with 
the prior financial year . These cost savings 
were in part due to economies of scale 
but also due to successful engineering 
activities to reduce consumable usage 
and costs within our processes, all 
without affecting the quality of the 
Group’s product offering.
The processing of the increased volumes 
was also achieved with a modest increase 
in headcount and thus Pure Wafer 
benefited from cost efficiencies as record 
levels of productivity were achieved in 
both the Swansea and Prescott facilities. 
I would like to thank all our employees 
for their hard work and support during 
the year, enabling Pure Wafer to continue 
to trade competitively throughout this 
period.
Highlights
• Sales Volumes have seen continued 
growth
 • 300mm up by 27% and 200mm  
 up by 24% when compared to  
 prior year
 • Strong increases in volumes 2nd  
 half over 1st half
• Selling price increases for 300mm 
customers
• Cost reductions continued, leading 
to a 10% reduction in cost per unit 
compared to prior year 
• Microgeneration Certification Scheme 
(MCS) accreditation of our solar 
products allowing us to commence 
trading in 2012
• Group banking arrangements have 
been restructured to ease working 
capital demands
 • Asset based debt rescheduled  
 over existing term including  
 an initial six month capital  
 moratorium
 • Additional banking facilities of  
 up to £1.7 million ($2.7million)
• Business now stabilised with low cost 
of manufacture, in a growing market, 
with significant installed capacity
Swansea site, UK
The Swansea site continued to see 
growing demand from our European and 
Asian customers during the period with 
300mm volume sales growing by 28% 
compared to the prior year and 200mm 
volume sales increasing by 15%. The 
second half of the financial year showed 
strong growth compared to the first half 
for our 300mm volumes with a 26% 
increase whilst the 200mm volumes 
dropped by 20% as one of our major 
customers completed their transition 
from 200mm to 300mm manufacturing. 
Prescott site, Arizona, USA
The Prescott, Arizona facility is now 
running large scale 300mm production, 
and has made significant progress in 
increasing our 300mm wafer reclaim 
market share in the US, where we are 
actively engaged with every major 
300mm integrated chip manufacturer 
who have a manufacturing presence in 
the US. Volume sales grew for the period 
with 300mm up by 23% when compared 
to the prior year and 200mm up by 29%. 
With the quality of our offering equal to 
the stringent requirements of our blue 
chip customer base we envisage further 
significant market gains.
With the Group’s current installed 
capacity for 300mm and smaller 
diameter wafers at Pure Wafer’s high 
quality facilities in Swansea and Prescott, 
Arizona, together with the reduced cost 
per wafer , the Board believe that the 
Company is well placed for future growth.
The increased volume sales has resulted in record 
levels of productivity and a further decrease in our 
costs per unit. Annual report and accounts 2011  Pure Wafer plc       7
Solar pv
This was an exciting year for the Pure 
Wafer solar panel business, during which 
we successfully achieved full accreditation 
of our solar products and our solar 
installations under the Microgeneration 
Certification Scheme (MCS) following 
delays in the accreditation process, due 
to a lack of testing facilities here in the 
UK. With the MCS accreditation, any 
installation by Pure Wafer or with Pure 
Wafer products enables our customers 
to take advantage of the Government 
feed-in-tariff. We were also able to bed 
in our manufacturing lines. The interest 
and uptake of our products has been 
strong and whilst revenue generation 
during this period has been negligible, 
the foundations are now in place for 
substantial growth. With the solar pv 
market being one of the fastest growing 
sectors in the UK currently, we see this 
as a exciting addition to our portfolio 
of products and are confident that it 
will provide significant revenue and 
profitability to the group.
Peter Harrington
Group Chief Executive
3 November 2011
