 4       Pure Wafer plc   Annual report and accounts 2011
Chairman’s statement
Introduction
The year to 30 June 2011 saw the 
semiconductor industry move from 
recovery to growth with Pure Wafer 
continuing to benefit from the additional 
volume business from all geographical 
areas in which we trade and with all 
customers across the various sectors of 
the industry. 
The industry growth in general and the 
projected increasing worldwide demand 
for hand held devices and tablets also 
prompted some of our major customers 
to announce extensive capital expenditure 
plans for new 300mm manufacturing 
facilities coming on line between now and 
2014 both in Asia and North America. 
These announcements and actions give 
exciting long term prospects for Pure 
Wafer .
During the financial year as volume 
demand strengthened and the confidence 
in a period of sustained growth returned 
there has been an acceptance of selling 
price increases across the customer 
base and an acknowledgement that 
the low prices of previous periods were 
unsustainable for the industry. The 
Group has therefore been successful in 
implementing price increases across its 
customer base.
The unfortunate events in Japan following 
the tsunami in February resulted in 
additional business for Pure Wafer in 
our fourth quarter, as our customers 
looked to ensure that their reclaim wafer 
supply was maintained as our Japanese 
competitors struggled to maintain their 
service.
During the financial year we saw the Pure 
Wafer solar panel business successfully 
achieve full accreditation under the 
Microgeneration Certification Scheme 
(MCS) for all our solar products and 
our solar installations. This enables 
our customers to take advantage of 
the UK Government’s feed-in-tariff. The 
accreditation of our products provides us 
with a strong platform on which to build. 
Financial results
•  T urnover $29.7m (2010: $24.8m)
• EBITDA $3.2m (2010: $1.3m (pre 
restructuring charges))
• Operating loss $3.8m (2010: $6.8m)
• Pre-tax loss $5.1m (2010: $8.0m)
• Basic loss per share 3.6c (2010: loss 
per share 5.1c) 
The results show significant improvement 
on prior years, and the board is 
encouraged by the actions of the 
management team during the period to 
take advantage of the market conditions 
to maximise revenue and to continue 
reducing costs across all sectors of the 
business. 
Group Funding
During the period we successfully 
completed negotiations with our bank 
and asset funders of a further financial 
restructuring package which will assist 
the management of our working capital 
requirement, arising from the increased 
volumes of wafer reclaim and the 
potential growth in our solar business. 
The financial agreements comprise a 
further 6 months of capital payments 
holiday on the asset based debts and a 
rescheduling of the capital repayments 
over a 42 month period commencing on 
1st January 2012 and concluding by 30th 
June 2015. The agreement also includes 
an increased bank overdraft facility of up 
to £1.7million ($2.7million). 
The Company’s existing bank debt 
continues to be repaid in accordance 
with the original restructuring agreement 
completed in August 2009.
The latest financial restructuring 
agreement further demonstrates the 
commitment that the bank and asset 
funders have to Pure Wafer and shows 
a confidence in the recovery of the 
business, and I would like to thank them 
for their support.
Management
I would like to thank the entire team for 
their support and efforts during a year 
in which activity levels increased and our 
solar products were accredited.
Outlook
The current period has commenced 
strongly with a continuation of high 
volumes enjoyed during our fourth 
quarter. It is particularly pleasing that 
high and stable volumes are being seen 
from our customers in all geographical 
regions, this together with the 300mm 
manufacturing facilities currently under 
construction by the semiconductor 
industry and in some cases nearing 
completion, gives an optimistic long term 
outlook.
On the flip side the worldwide fear of a 
second recession due to the uncertainty 
in the financial markets and the effect 
of this on consumer confidence has 
The Semiconductor Industry’s move from recovery 
to growth has been reflected in our results. Annual report and accounts 2011  Pure Wafer plc       5
prompted the industry to consider its 
levels of inventory. Many industry analysts 
are predicting a short term industry 
slowdown during our second quarter 
with full production returning during 
the beginning of the second half of our 
financial year .
The launch of our solar products is a 
very exciting time for Pure Wafer because 
we believe that the renewable energy 
market has massive potential growth both 
globally and significantly here in the UK, 
underpinned by the introduction of the 
government backed feed-in-tariff in April 
2010. The 2012 financial year has started 
well, following successful accreditation 
of our products in 2011, a number of 
solar installations have been completed. 
Our order book is building with a mix 
of domestic and large commercial 
installations. We have been successful 
in being awarded a contract for a local 
community housing scheme for roof-top 
solar PV systems with a potential value of 
up to £1million and are well placed to win 
other major solar contracts in the public 
sector all for completion this forthcoming 
financial year .
These factors together with our financial 
restructuring providing additional working 
capital, gives Pure Wafer a strong 
foundation on which to move forward.
Stephen Boyd
Chairman
3 November 2011
