 04 Pure Wafer plc  Annual report and accounts 2010
Introduction
The year to 30 June 2010 started with the 
industry still struggling to recover from the 
worst downturn ever experienced in the 
semiconductor industry and the lasting effects 
of the worldwide economic recession. Whilst 
we saw some encouraging signs of recovery 
of volumes during our first half we were still 
experiencing price pressure from our customers, 
as competitors sought to gain volume sales.
During our second half, as the industry shook 
off the shackles of the downturn and confidence 
returned to the industry, volume recovery 
became stronger and downward price pressure 
stopped, albeit with pricing remaining at the 
level inherited from our first half.
During the period Sterling maintained its 
relatively weak position against the US Dollar 
(USD) which at least mitigated the effects of 
the depressed selling prices, when converted 
to Sterling. 
As the industry currency is USD and therefore 
the majority of our revenues and a large 
proportion of our costs are now denominated 
in USD, we have decided to switch our 
reporting currency away from Sterling to 
USD. This now matches our functional 
currency and allows us to produce accounts 
that are clearer and more transparent without 
the need for the large and numerous 
adjustments required where the functional 
and reporting currencies are different.
Financial results
› Turnover $24.8m (2009: $27.8m).
›  EBITDA pre restructuring costs $1.0m 
(2009: $1.5m).
›  Significant increase in EBITDA from first half 
to second half (H1: ($0.2m) H2: $1.2m).
› Operating loss $6.8m (2009: $6.4m).
› Pre-tax loss $8.0m (2009: $7.8m).
›  Pre-tax loss before restructuring costs 
and other losses $7.2m (2009: $7.3m).
›  Basic loss per share 5.1c (2009: loss per 
share 29.4c). 
Whilst the results are disappointing, the board is 
encouraged by the actions of the management team 
during the period to reduce the impact of the market 
conditions by significantly reducing costs across all 
sectors of the business as well as maximising 
revenue during a difficult trading period. The 
significant increase in EBITDA in the second half 
is a reflection of a recovery of volume sales 
together with the positive impact of our cost 
reduction activities.
Group funding
During the year we successfully completed 
negotiations with our bank and asset funders of 
a financial restructuring package. The financial 
agreements comprised of rescheduling all the 
company’s existing debt over a six year period 
which includes up to two years of capital 
repayment holiday together with an additional 
overdraft facility of up to £1.4m.
As a condition of the financial restructuring, 
and to demonstrate their commitment and 
confidence in the business, certain directors 
and senior management invested £0.3m of cash 
into the business by way of a placement 
of shares. The open offer to shareholders, 
which was circulated during August 2009, 
was well subscribed, raising £1.16m of funds. 
This together with the placing of excess shares, 
which raised £0.53m, resulted in a total 
of £1.99m of funds, before costs, being raised.
The financial restructuring and take up of the 
open offer and placement, demonstrates the 
commitment that the bank, asset funders, 
shareholders and management have to 
Pure Wafer and shows a confidence in the 
recovery of the business, and I would like 
to thank them for their support.
Management
In November 2009, we announced the 
appointment of Jerry Winters to the board 
as an executive director responsible for our 
US operations. Jerry, aged 51, has a Bachelor 
of Science Degree from the University of 
San Francisco and has 31 years’ experience 
in the semiconductor materials and Integrated 
Chip industry. I am pleased to welcome Jerry 
to the board of Pure Wafer plc. He has many 
years’ experience of manufacturing in the 
semiconductor industry and more specifically 
in the wafer reclaim sector. We see this as a 
strengthening of the board and a reflection of 
the growing importance of the US market to the 
Pure Wafer group and look forward to Pure Wafer 
receiving the benefits of his experience.
I would like to thank the entire team for their 
support and effort during what has been 
a turbulent and challenging year.
Chairman’s statement
With confidence having returned to the semiconductor 
industry, and the launch of our solar products, 
Pure Wafer is well positioned for growth. 05 Annual report and accounts 2010  Pure Wafer plc
Highlights
› Confidence has returned to the industry
› Volume recovery is becoming stonger
› Successful launch of our solar products
Outlook
The current year has commenced strongly 
with a continuation of volume growth, from all 
geographical regions. The recent news that one 
of our major competitors has announced that 
they will be exiting the wafer reclaim market, 
the seventh competitor since early 2009 to 
leave the industry, should redress the balance 
between supply and demand, and therefore 
help selling prices recover over time to a more 
normalised position.
The launch of our solar products is a very 
exciting time for Pure Wafer, as we believe that 
the renewable energy market has a massive 
potential growth both globally but significantly 
here in the UK being underpinned by the 
introduction of the government backed 
feed-in-tariff in April 2010. Pure Wafer’s 
products include solar cells manufactured in 
the Swansea facility without the conventional 
heat process, which enables Pure Wafer to 
convert scrap from one industry, into an energy 
producing product for another industry, with the 
lowest carbon footprint. We have now added 
to this with the manufacturing of solar panels 
which means that we are positioned as the 
only manufacturer of solar cells and solar 
panels in the UK.
The aforementioned developments when taken 
together with our additional funding, gives 
Pure Wafer a strong foundation on which 
to move forward.
stePHen bO yd
non-executive chairman
28 October 2010
