 06 Pure Wafer plc  Annual report and accounts 2008
Highlights:
›  UK site in Swansea has been 
operationally restructured
›  USA operation in Prescott, Arizona, 
has increased 300mm capacity and is 
in process of obtaining qualification to 
act as a supplier to the majority of US 
semiconductor manufacturers
›  The US Dollar remained weak against 
Sterling during the period; however, 
following period-end, Sterling has 
weakened against the US Dollar
›  Business now stabilised and, with spare 
capacity, is ready to take advantage of the 
upswing in the semiconductor market when 
it occurs
Operational review
The volumes for 200mm wafer reclaim for the 
full year to 30 June 2008 were up by 51% 
when compared with the prior year; this increase 
reflects the first set of results which include a 
full year performance of the Prescott, Arizona, 
acquisition. 300mm wafer reclaim for the year 
showed a slight decrease in volumes of 5% 
compared with the prior year, with all of this 
decrease experienced in the second half following 
stable volumes in the first half of the year. 
The slowdown in the industry and the 
increased competition from new Taiwanese 
competitors resulted in significant pressure 
on selling prices. Therefore, during the second 
half of the year, we undertook a full operational 
restructuring process during which we have 
driven efficiencies and realised cost savings 
across the business. These actions, together 
with the 300mm capacity installed at both 
Swansea and Prescott, put Pure Wafer in 
a good position to take advantage of the 
industry recovery going forward.
Prescott site, Arizona, USA
It has been a busy time for the site in Prescott, 
Arizona. The development of the site to install 
300mm wafer reclaim capacity and the transfer 
of the 300mm technology from our Swansea 
site were concluded early in the year, both on 
time and within budget. The qualification of 
the first 300mm customer was completed and 
the first revenue-bearing 300mm wafers were 
achieved in October 2007, just eight months 
after the acquisition. 
The site now has a 300mm line with an 
approximate capacity of 30,000 wafers per month 
and is in a position to take advantage of the 
significant US market.
During the period, the site engaged with nearly 
every North American semiconductor manufacturer 
and is currently qualified or in the qualification 
process with all of them. The ramp-up of 
volume sales continued during the period and 
the business is well placed to build upon this 
success. The Prescott site remains cash positive 
and profitable at an EBITDA level and the US 
remains a key market for us.
Swansea site, UK
The Swansea site undertook a significant 
operational restructuring process during the 
period, aimed at reducing the cost per wafer 
to enhance the competitiveness of our product 
without reducing quality. This process has 
been successful and we managed to achieve 
significant cost savings during the period, 
whilst maintaining our position at the leading 
edge of our industry.
Both 300mm and 200mm volumes remained 
relatively stable during the period, with a small 
decrease in volumes seen during the second 
half as the prolonged slowdown of the industry 
took hold. 
Market and new products
We continue to explore opportunities outside 
of wafer reclaim to enhance our portfolio of 
products, although we will only do so in areas 
where we have certainty of the end market and 
where we will not incur significant research and 
development costs. We are confident that we 
can deliver new product developments in areas 
of global growth, compatible with our existing 
core skills and world-class manufacturing 
equipment and facilities.
PEtEr HArrING tON
Group chief executive
19 December 2008
Chief executive’s review
The Prescott site remains cash positive 
and profitable at an EBITDA level and 
the US remains a key market for us.
