 04 Pure Wafer plc  Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction
The year ended 30 June 2009 proved to be 
an extremely challenging period for Pure Wafer. 
With the semiconductor industry struggling to 
recover from the slowdown experienced during 
last financial year, the onset of the worldwide 
economic recession during the first quarter 
of the financial year pushed the industry into 
the worst downturn ever experienced. We saw 
business in volume terms drop dramatically 
during our third quarter, compounded by falling 
selling prices as competitors sought to maintain 
volume sales. 
During the period the weakening of Sterling 
against the US Dollar mitigated some of the effect 
of the falling revenue streams, when converted 
to Sterling as our presentational currency.
Financial results
›  Turnover £17.2m (2008: £22.3m).
›  Operating loss £3.8m (2008: profit of £0.2m).
›  Pre-tax loss £5.3m (2008: £0.8m).
›  Pre-tax loss before restructuring costs and 
other gains and losses £4.4m (2008: £0.1m).
›  Basic loss per share 19.9p (2008: 23.1p). 
›  Net cash inflow from operating activities 
£2.8m (2008: £1.7m).
The board is encouraged by the actions of the 
management team during the period to reduce 
the impact of the market conditions by reducing 
costs across all areas of the business as well as 
focusing on revenue generation during a difficult 
trading period.
Group funding
Following the refinancing and equity fundraising 
in August 2009, the group is now on a much 
firmer financial footing. Our negotiations with the 
bank and asset funders succeeded in rescheduling 
the group’s existing debt over a six year period 
which includes up to two years of capital 
repayment holiday together with an additional 
overdraft facility of £1.4m.
As a condition of the financial restructuring, 
and to demonstrate their commitment and 
confidence in the business, certain directors 
and senior management invested £0.3m of 
cash into the business by way of a placing, 
alongside an open offer to shareholders, 
which was well supported. This together 
with the placing of excess shares raised 
a total of £2.0m of funds before costs.
The financial restructuring and take-up of 
the open offer and placement demonstrates 
the commitment that the bank, asset funders, 
shareholders and management have to Pure Wafer 
and shows a confidence in the recovery of the 
business and I would like to thank them for 
their support.
Management
In February 2009, we announced that 
Eurfyl ap Gwilym would be stepping 
down from his position of non-executive 
chairman to non-executive director; I was 
appointed as non-executive chairman in 
his place. I have served on the Pure Wafer 
board since October 2008, and led the 
complex negotiations with its lenders 
during the financial restructuring.
We further strengthened our board with 
the appointment of Tim Lowe as group 
finance director during August 2009. Tim 
qualified as a chartered accountant in 1988 
with T ouche Ross and is an experienced public 
company finance director, whose previous 
positions included group finance director of 
PKL Holdings plc (an AIM listed company). 
We also appointed Jerry Winters to the Board 
during November 2009. He has many years’ 
experience of manufacturing in the semiconductor 
industry and more specifically in the wafer 
reclaim sector, including as managing director 
of Pure Wafer Inc. since the acquisition of this 
company in 2007. We see Jerry’s appointment 
as a reflection of the growing importance of 
the US market to the Pure Wafer group.
I would like to thank the entire team for their 
support and effort during what has been a 
turbulent and challenging year.
Chairman’s statement
Pure Wafer’s successful financial restructuring and 
open offer demonstrates confidence in the recovery 
of the business and provides a strong foundation 
on which to move forward.
_1_PUR_ar09_Front.indd   4 20/11/2009   13:50:50 05 Annual report and accounts 2009  Pure Wafer plc
Highlights
›  Successful financial restructuring
›  Significant board changes
›  Signs of industry recovery
Outlook
Although it is too early to be confident 
about a sustained return to growth, recent 
trading together with positive news in the 
press of returning volumes and an industry 
recovery are encouraging signs from which 
we draw confidence that the growth in volume 
recovery, that we have seen over the last 
few months, will be maintained.
This together with our additional funding 
gives Pure Wafer a strong foundation on 
which to move forward.
stePHen bO yd
non-executive chairman
19 november 2009
_1_PUR_ar09_Front.indd   5 20/11/2009   13:50:54
