 2 PV CRYSTALOX SOLAR PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
WWW.PVCRYSTALOX.COM
“ The Board believes cash conservation is the necessary 
response to current market conditions, enabling us 
to protect shareholder value whilst preserving the 
Group’ s core production capabilities.”
Chairman’ s statement
Despite 2013 being another record year for 
global photovoltaic installations, PV market 
conditions continue to be challenging 
with pressure on pricing persisting. 
As a consequence PV Crystalox Solar has 
continued to protect shareholder value 
by operating in cash conservation mode, 
with a strong focus on cost control and 
inventory management.
Revenues of €71.4 million, which included 
wafer shipments and the trading of surplus 
polysilicon, were 54% higher than 2012. 
Looking at continuing operations, earnings 
before tax of €6.6 million improved from 
the €30.7 million loss in 2012. This increase 
in profitability was driven primarily by the 
impact of revised assumptions in respect 
of the onerous contract provision (including 
that market conditions at the end of 2013 
were somewhat better than anticipated 
last year) which resulted in non‑cash 
income of €11.7 million in the statement 
of comprehensive income. Net cash at 
the year end was €39.2 million which was 
€50.2 million lower than the €89.4 million 
held at the end of 2012, reflecting the return 
to shareholders of €36.3 million, and the 
payment made to the management buy‑in 
team at Bitterfeld of €12.3 million. Operating 
cash in flow on continuing operations was 
€4.4 million. 
At the general meeting in September 2013 
shareholders approved the move of the 
Company’s listing from premium to standard 
on the Official List and this change took 
place on 10 October 2013. This enabled the 
Company to undertake the return of cash 
in a tax efficient manner. Additionally, it will 
enable the Company to implement any other 
transactions which might be in the interests 
of the Company, such as acquisitions or 
disposals, in a shorter timescale and at 
a lower expense.
A standard listing requires a company 
to comply with a minimum level of 
regulatory requirements, but does not 
require compliance with super‑equivalent 
provisions of the Listing Rules which apply 
only to companies with a premium listing. 
Despite this reduction in governance 
requirements, I am pleased to say that 
we have chosen to report, as we have 
previously, on a “comply or explain” basis 
against the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (September 2012) (the “Code”). 
Return of cash
In December we completed a return of 
cash to all shareholders amounting to 
€36.3 million (7.25 pence per share), by 
way of a B and C share scheme, which gave 
shareholders (other than certain overseas 
shareholders) a choice between receiving 
cash in the form of income or capital. The 
return of cash was accompanied by a 5 for 
13 share consolidation to maintain broad 
comparability of the share price and return 
per share before and after the creation of 
the B and C shares.
Our people
Our radical restructuring in 2013 required 
a significant reduction in our staff numbers 
from 299 at the end of 2012 to 88 at the end 
of 2013. Of those who left around 50 were 
able to join the new management buy‑in 
company at Bitterfeld. Our employees are 
one of the Group’s key strengths and are 
vital in ensuring that we retain our core 
production capabilities. I would like to thank 
them for their continuing outstanding 
commitment and contribution. I would like 
also to thank those employees who left for 
the significant contribution they made to 
the Group and for their professionalism 
during the previous years. 
I would particularly like to thank 
Hubert Aulich, who retired from his 
role as Executive Director of German 
operations and left the Board in May 2013 
and Peter Finnegan, the Chief Financial 
Officer (“CFO”), who informed the Board 
in March 2014 that he will retire from the 
Group on 31 May 2014 and accordingly 
will not stand for re‑election at this year’s 
Annual General Meeting. Peter has been 
involved with the Group since 1985, became 
CFO immediately prior to the IPO in 2007 
and has made an outstanding contribution 
to the Group’s development and progress. 
The Board expresses its gratitude to Peter 
for his contribution to the success of the 
Group and wishes him well for the future.
I am pleased to advise that the Board has 
appointed Matthew Wethey as the new CFO 
in addition to his role as Group Secretary. 
Matthew is a chartered accountant with 
20 years’ business experience who joined 
the Group in January 2009. He will not be 
an executive director of the Company and 
thus the Company will comply with the 
provisions of the Code in relation to size and 
composition of the Board from June 2014. 
I confirm that all other directors are 
standing for re‑election at this year’s 
Annual General Meeting in line with 
the recommendations of the Code.
The Board continues to believe that our cash 
conservation strategy is the necessary 
response to current market conditions, 
enabling us to protect shareholder 
value whilst preserving the Group’s core 
production capabilities. The Board remains 
committed to the solar industry and believes 
that the medium‑term outlook for solar 
installations remains positive.
John Sleeman
Chairman
19 March 2014
