 GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
WWW.PVCRYSTALOX.COM
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 | PV CRYSTALOX SOLAR PLC 3
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
“ Our improved cost structure enables us to increase 
production output in order to consolidate existing 
and to develop new customer relationships.”
Chief Executive’ s statement
2013 has seen significant growth in global PV 
installations and some modest improvement 
in the industry environment. Prices across 
the value chain showed some slight recovery 
towards the end of the year following two 
years of continuous price declines. This 
improvement has continued into 2014 
but wafer prices remain below industry 
production costs as polysilicon prices 
have been rising at a faster rate. 
Following a strategic review in late 
2012, the Group has completed a radical 
restructuring during 2013 whilst retaining 
core production capabilities and has stabilised 
its financial position. The Group restructuring 
involved a reduction in production output at 
the UK ingot and German wafer operations, 
with a corresponding reduction in personnel, 
and the disposal of the Group’s polysilicon 
production facility in Bitterfeld, Germany, 
to a management buy‑in team. The facility 
and staff were transferred together with 
associated obligations and liabilities including 
those relating to the repayment of grants, 
subsidies and closure costs in return for 
a cash payment of €12.3 million from the 
Group. This transaction was an improvement 
on the alternative shutdown scenario as 
it resulted in lower cash outflows for the 
Group and also enabled some jobs to be 
retained under the new management.
In view of the challenging market pricing and 
intensely competitive industry environment 
the Group continued to operate in cash 
conservation mode during 2013, maintaining 
production at low levels while focusing on 
internal cost reduction, quality improvement 
programmes and inventory management. 
Wafer shipments of 211MW
1
 were significantly 
higher than shipments in the previous year 
(2012:115MW) and also higher than our 
production output as the Group took the 
opportunity to expand its customer base 
and to reduce inventories to normal levels. 
During 2007–2008, Group companies 
entered into a number of long‑term 
agreements with customers to supply 
wafers at prices which are considerably 
above current market levels. In view of 
the market conditions, our strategy has 
always been to reach accommodation 
where possible with these long‑term 
contract customers, although some have 
exited the industry either voluntarily or 
through insolvency. Five contracts of this 
type remained at the start of 2013, but 
only two were active during 2013. Neither 
of these contracts will continue in 2014 as 
one has now expired and a settlement of 
the other has been concluded. The overall 
importance of these long‑term contracts 
was much reduced as we have successfully 
developed new customers during 2013. 
Sales at a premium to spot prices under 
these contracts accounted for only 34% 
of wafer shipment volumes in 2013. 
The Group has two other contracts where 
customers have entered insolvency and 
shipments stopped in 2011 and 2012 
respectively. We have registered claims 
with the respective administrators and 
expect to conclude settlements during 
the next twelve months. Negotiations 
with the final remaining long‑term contract 
customer are progressing with the aim 
of reaching agreement to resume wafer 
supply. In the absence of any agreement 
it will be necessary to seek resolution 
through arbitration under the auspices 
of the International Court of Arbitration. 
In common with most PV companies, 
the Group has long‑term contractual 
commitments for purchase of polysilicon 
which were made to secure supply necessary 
to service long‑term wafer supply contracts. 
As in previous years we continued to be 
successful in reaching agreement with our 
suppliers during 2013 to adjust volumes 
and prices on a periodic basis. Nevertheless, 
as a consequence of the reduced wafer 
production levels it was still necessary 
for the Group to trade excess polysilicon 
during the year in order to manage inventory 
levels. The Group has been successful in 
reaching accommodation with both suppliers 
in the year to date. 
The year ahead
Considerable progress was achieved during 
2013 in lowering our wafer production costs, 
both internally and at our sub‑contractor in 
Japan where the weakening of the Japanese 
Yen was also beneficial. As a result of these 
cost reductions and the modest price 
improvement seen in late 2013 and early 2014, 
our cash cost of wafer production is now 
closer to market prices. In view of this 
improved cost structure, the Group decided 
to increase production output during the 
first quarter of 2014 to take advantage 
of the improved market situation and to 
consolidate links with our new customers. 
Initially we are doubling our production 
output compared to 2013 and this has 
necessitated some recruitment of production 
personnel in UK and Germany. This expansion 
will enable wafer shipments to be maintained 
at 2013 levels when sales volumes were 
boosted by shipments from inventory. 
The Group will look to conclude settlements 
with the administrators of the two long‑term 
contract customers in insolvency and also 
to conclude negotiations with the remaining 
long‑term contract customer so that wafer 
shipments can resume. The Group will look 
to reinforce relationships with those new 
customers where trading started in 2013 
and to develop new customers as 
opportunities allow.
As in previous years the Group will continue 
to negotiate with our polysilicon suppliers 
in order to adjust prices and volumes on 
a periodic basis. The Group expects to use 
increasing quantities of polysilicon for our 
expanding wafer production; however, it 
will trade excess polysilicon as required 
to manage inventory levels.
Iain Dorrity
Chief Executive Officer
19 March 2014
1
  In order to reflect improvements in industry cell efficiencies wafer shipments have been converted to MW assuming a cell efficiency of 17% rather than 16% as in previous years. 
For comparison purposes 2012 shipments have been restated using 17% efficiency.
