 2 www.QinetiQ.com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 3
Defence
Aerospace Security
We provide the following capabilities:
•  Technical assistance and programme support 
•  Technology offerings
•  Test and evaluation
•  Research and development 
•  Training delivery
The business at a glance
Directors’ Report – Business Review
QinetiQ’s business model is based on providing hi-tech advice 
to customers and building relationships as a trusted partner. 
Our customers value our technical and domain knowledge in 
support of professional services. They value our independence 
and our integrity, and trust us to share in their mission.
How we operate
Our markets
Highlights in our markets during the year
Aerospace Defence Security
Typhoon programme
The business won a £37m, three-year 
contract during the year to support the 
Typhoon programme.
Iraqi flight-training
We continue to deliver Iraqi flight-training 
services as part of a multi-year contract 
worth more than $100m.
Cyveillance
Cyveillance, providing proactive preventative 
solutions for customers in the cyber 
security market, was acquired during the 
year for an initial consideration of £26.1m. 2 www.QinetiQ.com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 3
We have operations throughout the UK and North America as well as Australia, as illustrated. 
Our capabilities are utilised across the world by an international range of customers who recognise 
QinetiQ as a trusted partner.
QinetiQ provides services and products across international markets. Our services business, which 
accounts for approximately 80% of total sales, is based on providing expertise and knowledge in national 
markets. Our products business provides the platform for potential profitable growth on a global basis.
At the start of the new financial year we moved to a new structure:
• US Services
• UK Services
• Global Products
We believe this structure will provide greater focus to leverage QinetiQ’s expertise, technology, 
customer relationships and business development skills, to enable sustainable and profitable growth 
over the longer-term.
Where we operate
What we offer
