 02
02 QINETIQ GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT 2006
I am pleased to report that QinetiQ has continued 
to perform strongly in 2005/06 and is able to show 
a 22.9% growth in turnover and a 100 basis point
improvement in underlying operating margin to 8.6%.
These good results are driven by our three pronged thrusts,
each of which is making good progress – the UK defence
market, the commercialisation of our defence technology
into adjacent commercial markets and the building of our
platform in the US.
Our positioning in these markets remains well chosen 
to capture some of the best opportunities that they
present. The need for nations to invest in defence and
security is as clear now as ever but it is becoming less
predictable where and how their forces will be deployed.
The UK Government’s recent Defence Industrial Strategy
paper, for instance, highlighted the paramount need for
agility and flexibility. This Government White Paper made
clear that it sees Research and Technology as playing a key
role in providing an enabler for this objective. 
QinetiQ has a unique position as a researcher and provider
of technology into the supply chain and, separately, as an
expert adviser and technology service provider to the
ultimate customer. In the UK, our constitution provides 
a compliance regime which gives MOD customers for our
advisory services the right to decide whether to agree to
QinetiQ providing a related technology supply activity if
they are completely satisfied by the firewalls we put in
place to separate the two activities. The 28.2% growth in
our Technology Supply business this year is a testament
both to the importance of technology supply in meeting
the customers’ agility and flexibility agenda and also their
confidence in our firewalls.
In the US, the Quadrennial Defense Review emphasised
many similar issues to the UK and the President’s 2007
budget submission has proposed a 3% increase in real
terms in the Science &Technology budget despite having 
to find significant savings in major defence programmes. 
This year QinetiQ reports on a major
milestone in our development. The vision 
of creating an international world class
defence and security technology company
out of the defence laboratories of the
British Government was born more than 
a decade ago. With the successful listing 
on the London Stock Exchange, the value 
of this strategy has been more widely
recognised.
SIR JOHN CHISHOLM
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
36.5%
Compound annual growth in
underlying operating profit
since 2003
C12357_QinetiQ_AR_P01-23.qxd  14/6/06  6:01 pm  Page 02 03
QINETIQ GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 03
This underlines the strength of our chosen positions in 
the US in three sub sectors mirroring our UK position. 
Our advisory business, known as Systems Engineering &
Technical Assistance in the US, had a particularly good year
growing organically by 10.9% in the second half of the year.
Overall we grew the turnover of our US business 254.4% 
on a year-on-year basis through organic and acquisition 
led growth.
Innovation remains the strongest driver for economic
development in first world nations. Much of the rationale
for the creation by the UK Government of QinetiQ from 
its defence research laboratories was to release the
powerhouse represented by its defence scientists to create
vibrant new businesses in related commercial markets.
While the maturation of business from early stage
technology never provides a quick win, QinetiQ’s Security
and Dual Use (S&DU) Sector has had a strong year and is
well placed to fulfil the promise of this key strategy.
In preparing QinetiQ for its listing we undertook a number
of changes to the Board. Dame Pauline Neville-Jones
(Chairman), Sir Denys Henderson, Richard Gillingwater 
and Trevor Woolley all retired having steered QinetiQ
through our private equity phase and provided us with
excellent guidance and support. We are in considerable
debt to each of them and I would like to thank them for 
the enormous contribution they made. The new Board
aimed to enact best practice as advocated by the Combined
Code consistent with the particular needs of QinetiQ as 
a unique company. 
The Board proposed that I succeeded Dame Pauline as
Chairman and Sir David Lees joined the Board as Deputy
Chairman and Senior Independent Director. Noreen Doyle
joined us as our fourth independent Non-executive Director
(NED) alongside Peter Fellner and Nick Luff. Glenn Youngkin
and Colin Balmer continue as NEDs nominated by Carlyle
and the MOD respectively. Graham Love became Chief
Executive Officer, Doug Webb succeeded him as Chief
Financial Officer and Hal Kruth stood down from the Board
but continues as Managing Director of S&DU. As reported
in our Prospectus, it is our intention that we recruit one
further independent NED with strong US experience.
The launch of the Company on the London Stock Exchange
is the beginning of a new phase in our growth and provides
us with the ability to execute our strategy and deliver on
our ambitious vision. Many of our staff have come a long
way since their days in Government and all are absolutely
committed to providing excellent service to customers. 
I would like to pay tribute to all our staff for the magnificent
way they have responded to the challenges and opportunities
we face and we all look forward with confidence to
continuing to grow our business in the stimulating future
that is now before us.
SIR JOHN CHISHOLM
CHAIRMAN 
QinetiQ Group plc
7 June 2006
2006
TURNOVER BY DESTINATION %
69.8
25.5
4.7
2005
85.6
10.1
4.3
•
United Kingdom  
•
North America  
•
Rest of World
C12357_QinetiQ_AR_P01-23.qxd  14/6/06  6:01 pm  Page 03
