 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2
Dear shareholder
I write this report having completed my first full year as Chairman 
of QinetiQ. I am pleased to report that, against a backdrop of 
challenging markets, QinetiQ’s performance in the last financial 
year was impressive. 
These results were delivered in significant part because we took 
charge of our destiny and implemented a 24 month self-help 
programme to restore the business to strength and build value  
for the future. Our markets on both sides of the Atlantic were  
under significant budgetary pressures as our customers responded 
to their need to reduce national deficits. Given, however, the 
increased global risks and threats, our key markets of defence  
and security remain a priority for governments. We have made 
rapid progress in reshaping our business. This, together, with the 
reduction and refinancing of our debt contributed to a more  
agile and competitive QinetiQ.
Results
Group revenues were £1,702.6m (2010: £1,625.4m) and underlying 
operating profit
*
 increased to £145.4m (2010: £120.3m), up 21%, 
resulting in an underlying profit before tax
*
 for the Group of 
£114.6m, up 34% on the previous year (2010: £85.7m). The rigorous 
Group-wide focus on debt reduction resulted in a strong underlying 
operating cash conversion
*
 of 183% (2010: 145%) as underlying 
cash flow from operations
*
 increased to £265.8m (2010: £174.3m). 
Closing net debt at 31 March 2011 was £260.9m (2010: £457.4m),  
an improvement of £196.5m. Full year underlying earnings per 
share
*
 were 14.2p (2010: 11.1p). 
Dividend
In May 2010, the Board recommended a suspension of dividend 
payments during the first 12 months of the Group’s programme  
to restore QinetiQ to strength. In line with its commitment at that 
time, the Board is recommending a return to the dividend list.  
The Board is also recommending the reinstatement of a progressive 
dividend policy, which takes into account the profitability of 
QinetiQ’s businesses and underlying growth, as well as its capital 
requirements and cash flows, while maintaining an appropriate 
level of dividend cover. The final dividend will normally represent 
approximately two-thirds of the full year dividend in future periods. 
The proposed final dividend is 1.60p per share for the year ended 
31 March 2011, which will be paid on 2 September 2011 to 
shareholders on the register at 5 August 2011.
Our people 
QinetiQ’s success rests on the skills and dedication of its people as 
we adapt to changing market conditions. They have played an active 
role in the Group’s progress during the year and we know they are 
deeply engaged in the self-help plan that we are implementing.  
Our teams embody a strong ethos of public service, which provides 
a vital bond with our customers in delivery of their priorities.  
May I take this opportunity to extend my thanks to our employees  
who have played such a vital role in our progress during the year.
The Board
Just as our business is evolving so is the shape of the Board. During 
the course of the year, Nick Luff and David Langstaff both left the 
Board due to growing executive management commitments outside 
of the Group. I thank them for their service to the Company and 
wish them both well for the future. In October 2010, Paul Murray 
joined as a Non-executive Director, bringing a broad range of 
experience in finance and corporate governance from a cross 
section of industries. I would like to welcome Paul to the Board  
and, on behalf of my Board colleagues, look forward to working 
with him. Admiral Ed Giambastiani will step down as a Non-
executive Director at this year’s Annual General Meeting. I would 
like to thank him for his contribution to QinetiQ over the past three 
years. We will continue to review the structure of the Board as 
QinetiQ transitions and adapts to changing markets. 
Outlook
We are making significant progress in restoring QinetiQ to strength. 
Our reshaping of the businesses, together with the reduction 
and refinancing of the debt, all contribute to a leaner and more 
agile Group. With a stronger balance sheet, we are now able to 
fund future growth and reinstate the dividend for shareholders. 
Internally, we have made significant changes which we will embed 
and extend this year, to ensure that over the medium term we 
maximise value from both QinetiQ’s inherent capabilities and 
emerging opportunities. Externally, by working closely with its US 
and UK government customers, QinetiQ will be able to align its 
unique expertise with their priorities to achieve greater value and 
efficiency. We are unlikely to see a repetition of last year’s level of 
Q-NET sales, but the Board believes that the programme underway 
to increase competitiveness will enable the Group to perform in line 
with its expectations for the current financial year in what are likely 
to remain challenging market conditions. 
Mark Elliott
Chairman
27 May 2011
Chairman’s  
statement
Business review
*
  Definitions of underlying measures of performance are in the glossary on page 107. 
Mark Elliott
Chairman
