 04
04 QINETIQ GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT 2006
DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGY
We have continued to build upon the opportunities afforded
by our three market facing sectors, each of which reflects a
particular strategic thrust. In our Defence & Technology
sector, addressing our core UK defence market, we have
continued to grow our technology supply business and
consolidated our position in the provision of advisory
services. In our Security & Dual Use sector, we have seen
excellent progress in our service businesses and passed
some important milestones in developing our commercial
ventures. In North America, we have substantially increased
our footprint, both through acquisition and through direct
sales from the UK.
OUR MARKETPLACE
In our principal defence markets in the UK and US there 
are significant challenges, as scarce resources continue to 
be heavily focused on operational deployments, particularly
in Iraq and Afghanistan. Significant supplemental budgets
have been approved to support these campaigns, and there
are encouraging signs of QinetiQ being successful in
meeting these needs, particularly as the rapid insertion 
of technology is used to upgrade systems and platforms
more quickly than would be possible using conventional
new platform procurement processes. US spending on IT
services, by both the Department of Defense (DoD) and 
the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), has also 
been a particular feature of the 2006 budget, and we 
are well placed to benefit from this. 
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Overall, our turnover grew by 22.9% to £1,051.7m, and
underlying operating profit, excluding profit on disposal of
our interest in pSiMedica Limited in 2005, grew 39.1% to
£90.7m. Whilst this growth was in part attributable to
acquisitions, all sectors of our business also showed organic
turnover growth during the year and our UK sectors also
further improved their profit margins. Our underlying
operating margin now stands at 8.6%, up 100bps from last
year. Significant restructuring was required to achieve this
profit margin, and restructuring costs totalling £9.4m have
been charged in arriving at operating profit. Net cash flow
from operating activities was also strong at £83.3m, 253.0%
up on last year.
This was clearly a very significant year 
for QinetiQ from many points of view. 
We continued to reposition the Group 
into growth markets within Ministry of 
Defence (MOD) programmes, achieved
significant progress in commercialising 
our defence technologies into adjacent
markets and substantially expanded our
presence in our key North American
market. We addressed senior management
succession issues as Sir John Chisholm, for
so long the principal architect of and driver
behind QinetiQ, moved up to Chairman of
the Board, I moved into the Chief Executive
role, and Doug Webb took over from me as
Chief Financial Officer. Last, but clearly not
least, we took QinetiQ public through an
Initial Public Offering on the London Stock
Exchange.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
GRAHAM LOVE
2006
TURNOVER BY SECTOR £m
669.6
133.7
248.4
2005
664.9
120.9
70.1
•
Defence & Technology
•
Security & Dual Use
•
QinetiQ North America
TOTAL 1,051.7 TOTAL 855.9
C12357_QinetiQ_AR_P01-23.qxd  14/6/06  6:01 pm  Page 04 05
QINETIQ GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 05
DEFENCE & TECHNOLOGY SECTOR
Turnover increased 0.7% to £669.6m and underlying
operating profit 10.1% to £56.5m. In our UK defence
business we continue to adjust to the introduction of
competition into the MOD’s research programme, which
affects all of our technology businesses to a degree, but,
because it is combined with a reshaping of MOD’s
investment priorities, can affect certain technology areas
more dramatically then others. This led to the need to
restructure certain of our technology divisions during the
year. Our advice and managed services business with the
MOD remained broadly stable during the year, whilst our
Technology Supply turnover increased 28.2%.
Key wins in the year included leading the Haldane-Spearman
consortium to success in the ‘Preparing people for operations’
research assignment and being part of the successful BAE
Systems team which won the US Future Combat Systems
tracked vehicle demonstrator programme. We have also been
appointed preferred bidder for the 20-year managed service
contract for the Combined Aerial T argets Service.
SECURITY & DUAL USE SECTOR
Turnover increased 10.6% to £133.7m, with underlying
operating profit, excluding the gain on disposal of our
interest in pSiMedica in 2005, increasing by 64.1% to
£9.7m. Although our Optronics and Materials divisions had
a tough year due to unexpectedly severe reductions in MOD
research funding in these areas, necessitating restructuring
during the year, they both did an excellent job of finding
new sources of funding in order to sustain the important
world-class capabilities we have in these areas. We have
continued to make good progress in developing our Security
and Space businesses, whilst our estates function made a
significant contribution to cash flow by realising proceeds
of £110.2m through the sale of surplus property assets.
Key wins included the first sales of Tarsier®, those of our
Quintel joint venture, a research contract from the US
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency into optical
tagging, and a number of significant new government
and commercial customers for our IT security practice.
QINETIQ NORTH AMERICA SECTOR
Turnover grew 254.4% to £248.4m, and underlying
operating profit 206.3% to £24.5m. This includes the
contribution for part of the year from two new acquisitions.
The first of these, Planning Systems Inc. is a technology
company working primarily for the DoD, which had a
turnover in its last full year prior to acquisition (December
2004) of $44.6m (£24.3m). The other is Apogen
Technologies Inc., an IT services company, working mainly
for the DoD and the DHS, which in its last complete year
prior to acquisition (December 2004) had turnover of
$199.9m (£109.0m). Our previous acquisitions put in a 
solid performance all round, despite some reduction in
Foster-Miller’s research business due to difficult market
conditions. We also successfully established the first
projects to exploit technology synergies between the UK
and the US, in order to increase overall sales into the US
market. QinetiQ’s staff numbers in North America had
grown to 2,640 by 31 March 2006, and our North American
group is now making a very substantial contribution to our
overall performance. 
Key wins included the Man Transportable Robotic System
(the major procurement contract for Improvised Explosive
Device (IED) robots), significant extensions of our systems
engineering work with the US Army and our IT services 
to the Department of Homeland Security. Just before the
end of the year, we announced the acquisition of Ocean
Systems Engineering Corp, which will strengthen our
position with the US Navy and our US capabilities in
mission critical systems.
MANAGEMENT AND ORGANISATION
The three sector structure we put in place in late 2004
continues to serve us well. We have been most fortunate 
in securing the services of Phil Odeen, a widely respected
US defence industry executive, to run our enlarged North
American group. Phil joined us with our acquisition of
Apogen, where he was Chairman, and will continue to 
act as part-time CEO until a full-time appointment is 
made during 2006.
We have an outstandingly talented group of people at all
levels in QinetiQ – our challenge as leaders is to provide an
environment in which our people can deliver maximum
value for our customers and shareholders. Our IPO has
allowed us to make equity incentives available to all staff –
in particular, we have been able to introduce a targeted
share option plan.
2006
UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT BY SECTOR £m 
56.5
9.7
24.5
2005
51.3
5.9
8.0
•
Defence & Technology 
•
Security & Dual Use   
•
QinetiQ North America
               
                    
TOTAL 90.7 TOTAL 65.2
C12357_QinetiQ_AR_P01-23.qxd  14/6/06  6:01 pm  Page 05 06
06 QINETIQ GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT 2006
forward to seeing the first integration benefits as we begin
to combine certain back office functions, and to generate
new business opportunities. Our US companies are starting
to work more closely together and with the UK on bidding
for major programmes and developing our growing
network of US customers and partners. We will also
continue to pursue tactical acquisitions of the type we have
already made, provided this can be done at sensible prices.
Overall, the past year has laid a firm foundation for our
company, and although there are many challenges ahead, 
I look forward to the coming year, confident in our ability 
to make further progress. We have developed a robust
business model and a management team capable of
delivering it.
GRAHAM LOVE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
QinetiQ Group plc
7 June 2006
THE FUTURE
The evidence of the past year supports the strategy we 
are pursuing and so our emphasis will continue to be 
on executing as effectively as possible.
In Defence & Technology, this means continuing to build 
on our many critical customer relationships, ensuring that
we are providing the UK armed forces with the services 
and solutions they need to meet increasingly asymmetric
threats. In particular, it means continuing to insert our
technology into the systems and equipment which are
urgently required, thereby pulling through the benefits 
of the MOD’s research programme into the field. Our order
performance in year positions us well to continue with this
growth in technology insertions. Typically we will operate
on the supplier side of the market through partners,
although, where appropriate, we may act as prime
contractor, with the approval of our MOD customers. This
reflects our unique constitutional ability in the UK to act as
both advisor and technology supplier, where our customers
approve this through our compliance regime. 
We will also continue to work hard on developing our
managed services business. In particular we are pursuing
our bid for the Defence Training Rationalisation Programme,
through Metrix, where we are a 50% co-sponsor along with
Land Securities Trillium. We are seeking to make our vast
experience in successfully managing the Long Term
Partnering Agreement, the MOD’s largest outsourcing
contract to date, available to support the MOD in its
ambitious plans to improve the delivery of technical
training to all of the armed services.
In Security & Dual Use, this means continued exploitation
of defence capabilities into adjacent markets, building
particularly on our strong security positioning, continuing
to build our space business through the pursuit of key
bidding opportunities and selected acquisitions, and
delivering on our business plans in our ventures portfolio.
In North America, conditions are expected to remain
challenging for parts of our business as the government
balances budget demands due to the combined effects 
of the Iraq war and Hurricane Katrina. However, we look
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT CONTINUED
06
05
6,791
6,905
DEFENCE & TECHNOLOGY
06
05
2,640
1,374
QINETIQ NORTH AMERICA
EMPLOYEES BY SECTOR AT 31 MARCH  
06
05
1,643
1,790
CORPORATE SECURITY & DUAL USE
06
05
372
361
C12357_QinetiQ_AR_P01-23.qxd  15/6/06  3:44 pm  Page 06
