 4 QinetiQ Group plc  Annual Report 2005
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
This has been a landmark year for QinetiQ, registering
solid growth, increased profitability and positive cash
flow from operating activities. We have made strides
towards our strategic goals of maintaining our 
strong relationship with the UK MOD, growing 
our commercial defence business, establishing a
substantial presence in the United States (US) – the
world’s largest defence market – and leveraging our
technology and expertise into the non-defence arena.
Successful commercialisation of our technology in
new defence and related security and dual use
markets has accelerated. The purchase and integration
of two thriving defence companies in the US, Foster-
Miller and Westar, has diversified QinetiQ’s earnings
base, provided a scale entry point into, and contributed
to significant growth in, the critical American market.
It has also laid the base for QinetiQ’s long-term
development as a global solutions company with 
a continuing focus on defence and security but also
with significant business in civilian applications.
QinetiQ is realising its huge potential and our brand 
is achieving recognition.
QinetiQ’s unique position
The incoming government has recommitted to maintain Britain’s
position as a world leader in defence technology. In the debate on the
Queen’s Speech, Lord Drayson, Minister of State for Procurement in the
MOD, said: “Our defence scientists and engineers are at the cutting
edge of research in order to provide the best kit for our armed forces”.
In his address to the CBI Annual Conference this year, the Chancellor 
of the Exchequer proposed that industry and government should form
a partnership to agree on long-term investment in British science and
technology, asserting that, in an open global economy, the greatest
added value in society comes from innovation which is a driver of
economic growth. As I set out in my statement last year, QinetiQ
shares this vision, which is central to our strategy as a company. 
As a provider of technology solutions to problems in both the defence
and civilian spheres, QinetiQ is uniquely placed to contribute to the
realisation of both national priorities. In our view, defence Research
and Development (R&D), in which continuing government investment
is vital, will remain an important component of technological advance
with significant benefits to the economy as a whole. The funded
research QinetiQ does for the MOD lies at the core of our business
model. Its global quality is demonstrated by the progress we have
made in the last year in winning research contracts with the US
Government Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). 
T o disseminate QinetiQ-owned technologies derived from defence
research more effectively into the wider economy, we have developed
processes to fast-track them to market, thus releasing value more
rapidly into the economy as a whole. Defence partners are also
engaging us to help commercialise their own technologies and 
we believe that others will follow suit.
Many of the important problems we are asked to solve are of direct
interest to government, business and society now and in the future:
the development of waste management systems; improved cancer
diagnosis methods; enhanced safety mechanisms in cars; advanced
security for air travellers are but a few examples. We will work to
ensure that the research bedrock on which our technologies are 
based continues to be resourced.
Past year
This past year, the defence and security markets have confirmed their
strengths in the UK and the US. We have capitalised on this. In Britain,
Dame Pauline Neville-Jones
Chairman 
C11968_Qinetiq_p01-09.qxd  16/9/2005  2:53 PM  Page 4 QinetiQ Group plc  Annual Report 2005 5
our technological expertise is increasingly sought by the Defence
Procurement Agency (DPA) and the Defence Logistics Organisation
(DLO) of the MOD, while our commercial defence business has 
grown by a third. In the US, the Department of Defense (DoD) is 
now the Group’s second largest customer – testimony to the strategic
importance of our US acquisitions. The market for security technology
is maturing globally, with increasing emphasis on threat analysis and
the appropriate application of technology, both of which are among
QinetiQ’s core strengths. We have made progress in focusing our ability
to exploit our intellectual property to win business in non-defence
sectors, better understanding these markets, developing techniques 
to exploit them and building important long-term relationships.
Improving performance
We continue to focus on improving our financial and operational
performance. We have simplified the structure of our business to focus
on the three main markets of defence, security and civil applications,
and the US. We have further developed our corporate governance
structures to ensure compliance with the Combined Code. During the
course of the year, Richard Gillingwater, Head of the Government’s
Shareholder Executive, joined the QinetiQ Board as did Dr Peter Fellner,
Executive Chairman of Vernalis. Effective from 1 August 2005, Sir David
Lees, Chairman of Tate & Lyle, will also join. Taken together, these
appointments constitute a major strengthening of our Board and I am
delighted to welcome all three members. 
Our major shareholders, The Carlyle Group and the MOD, have
continued to work closely with us to support our business strategies at
this important time. At QinetiQ’s Public Private Partnership transaction
in February 2003, the MOD stated its intention of selling its remaining
shareholding interest some three to five years later, probably through
UK flotation. This remains the position in principle, although no
decisions have been taken about the timing or structure of any sale.
We and our shareholders continue to share the same vision, that a
flotation would be an important milestone in the long-term
development of the Group as a strong, vibrant and international
defence technology business.
Corporate responsibility
At QinetiQ, we take our responsibility as a corporate citizen seriously.
We recognise that we have an impact on the world around us: socially,
environmentally and ethically. We have used our business strengths 
in environmental issues to make a special contribution to the wider
community. We look after a number of valuable conservation areas
including 13 Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs), we have secured
accreditation with the National Energy Foundation for our energy
efficiency and have maintained our ISO14001 registration. We are
strongly supported in our determination to act with integrity in all our
business dealings by our highly accountable staff.
A workforce of which to be proud
I have commented before on the brilliance of our 10,400 people. In
QinetiQ’s case, this is no platitude. It is literally true in the extent and
quality of their professional qualifications. The Company’s success is
predicated on their achievements – on their passion, commitment
and effectiveness. We aim to recruit, retain and develop the best – 
a necessity for retaining our vibrancy and productivity – and to treat
our staff with the respect they deserve. At a time of transition and
restructuring, an inevitably unsettling process, we rely on our staff’s
loyalty and commitment more than ever. We are grateful for the
certitude shown by employees during this time, ensuring that we 
are in a strong position to accelerate the growth of the business.
A bright future
The Board looks to the future with well-placed confidence. We are
positioned to capitalise further on the continued strength of our core
markets, defence and security. Our expansion into the US, through
carefully targeted acquisitions, has been successful in terms of revenue
and profitability and provides a model to develop further. Our ability 
to work productively on both sides of the Atlantic with government
agencies and their contractors puts us in a strong position to generate
further business in these quarters. And, while the commercialisation
of technology is complex, our ‘fast-track’ process has the potential to
bring step-change technologies rapidly to market, capable of delivering
high returns both to ourselves and our customers.
Dame Pauline Neville-Jones
Chairman QinetiQ Group
28 June 2005
C11968_Qinetiq_p01-09.qxd  16/9/2005  2:53 PM  Page 5
