 6 QinetiQ Group plc  Annual Report 2005
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
This has been a year of real progress for QinetiQ 
but also one of transition. We have now had two 
years following investment by The Carlyle Group, 
which took the Company into the private sector. 
The first year was devoted to sound performance,
demonstration of cash generation and examination 
of the strategic choices that our new freedoms 
offered. This second year has started to progress the
strategy we formulated. This is leading the Company
into areas of significantly greater growth potential 
and our people are responding magnificently to the
opportunities now before us.
Sir John Chisholm
Chief Executive Officer
Execution on strategy
In all our markets our strongest differentiator is that QinetiQ contains
within it the integrated result of 50 years of investment by one of the
most sophisticated defence nations in the world. No other similarly
advanced country has transitioned its national laboratories into the
private sector with the intention of giving them the opportunity of
fulfilling their potential to serve a broader range of customers, 
bringing their technology through to market leading products and
services, and growing and creating a new internationally-based
defence technology Group.
Last year, we announced that our strategic review had concluded that
the unparalleled capabilities that our newly private company had
inherited could best be exploited in the Defence and Security markets
and the greatest opportunities for expansion were in the US. This 
year, we have been executing that strategy beginning with a major
restructuring of the Group into three Sectors: the Defence &
Technology Sector, serving primarily the defence market in the UK; 
the Security & Dual Use Sector, which contains those technology
capabilities drawn from our Defence core markets as well as their
defence customers; and the North America Sector, focused primarily
on serving Defence and Security customers in the US.
North America is the world’s largest market for QinetiQ’s core
offerings, representing the most exciting growth arena and we have
executed our strategy to replicate the success of our UK model and
expand our presence significantly in the market. We will continue to
look for opportunities and new ways in which best to leverage our 
core skills and expertise in this exciting area in the future.
Financial review
Turnover for the year rose 9.7% to £872.4m due mainly to our
investments in the US defence market. Continued attention to
superior operational management moved margins faster than
turnover resulting in total operating profit (before exceptionals,
intangible amortisation and impairment) expanding 33.1% to 
£69.6m. Cash flow before financing, dividends, acquisitions and
disposals was also strong at £68.2m although less than last year’s
figure due primarily to an increase of some £40m in short-term
MOD-related working capital.
C11968_Qinetiq_p01-09.qxd  16/9/2005  2:53 PM  Page 6 QinetiQ Group plc  Annual Report 2005 7
We have more than 700 contracts valued between £100,000 and 
£5m that QinetiQ has undertaken for customers in the MOD including
370 research contracts, 91 test and evaluation contracts and 242
technical services contracts. Our field of activities ranges from a key
role in developing the MOD’s thinking with respect to Networked
Enabled Capabilities, to research into new Electronic Warfare sensors,
to proving our technology for automatic landing of Short Take-Off 
and Vertical Landing (STOVL) aircraft at sea, to procurement and
integration of new generation aerial targets, and on to extending 
the shelf life of munitions – providing the opportunity for 
enormous savings.
Responding to the defence and security environments
All major nations, including the UK, are faced with the challenge of
equipping their armed forces in an environment where sophisticated
modern defence systems take a decade or more to develop while the
missions they have to undertake emerge with little warning in a
matter of months. The resolution of this discrepancy in timing is
creating a seismic change in the international defence equipment
marketplace. QinetiQ, given its distinctive heritage, is well equipped 
to help customers respond to this challenge. Our core business 
in funded research work ensures our laboratories have available
demonstrations of leading-edge technology, while our practical
understanding of existing in-service equipment enables us to expedite
the insertion of new relevant capability into legacy platforms. 
The US armed forces face the same issues but on an even greater
scale. Being part of a Group with such a range of solutions to offer
customers was the key to persuading two very capable US defence
technology companies to join this year. Foster-Miller and Westar
Aerospace & Defense are two highly respected companies with 
strong, but different, customer positions.
In QinetiQ North America, Westar works predominantly directly for 
the Department of Defense (DoD) providing systems engineering and
technology services in the army aviation and missile defence fields. 
In its last complete year (to December 2004) it had a turnover of
$155.5m (£85.4m) and recorded an operating profit of $18.0m
(£9.9m). Foster-Miller is a longer-established company which had its
origins in a spin-out from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
T oday it is engaged in advanced research for the DoD and the
application of its technologies, particularly in the automation,
materials and power engineering fields, into products for military and
commercial customers. It is particularly well known for its TALON™ and
SWORDS military robots, of which more than 250 have been sold, and
its LAST® appliqué armour which has been bought by 11 nations. In its
last full year (to July 2004) Foster-Miller reported turnover of $121.0m
(£68.9m) and operating profit of $20.1m (£11.4m).
With these acquisitions, QinetiQ’s staff numbers in the US have 
risen to 1,320 out of a Group total of 10,406 at March 2005. The
opportunities we are now pursuing are likely to mean that the US 
will make an even larger percentage contribution to the Group by the
end of the current financial year.
Positioned for growth
Our leading position in understanding research markets for the MOD
provides insight and positioning at the very birth of nascent defence
programmes. As the MOD’s partner for test and evaluation, through
the £5.6bn LTPA contract, we provide a technical advisory service to
new programmes and equipment updates. The intellectual property
and technical insight which these activities provide makes us
attractive technology partners for Original Equipment Manufacturers
(OEMs) bidding for major equipment supply roles and this is resulting
in a business in commercial defence which grew 33% this year.
Our defence technology has numerous applications outside the 
strictly defined defence market and many of these are the focus of our
Security & Dual Use (S&DU) Sector. The creation of this Sector, which
remains founded squarely on funded technologies drawn from our
defence capability and tested against the demands of our defence
customers, provides the Group with a critical mass of expertise in
taking technology products to commercial customers.
Its Security Division expanded work for intelligence customers by 
50% during the year and also continued to grow our business in
Information Security which has now reached £20.0m. The Space
Division, which focuses on low-cost access to space, also had a good
year, growing 12% through programmes such as the low-cost Earth
observation platform T opSat, our ‘near space’ unmanned autonomous
vehicle (UAV) Zephyr, and the Maps-on-Tap programme we won for the
Office of the Deputy Prime Minister.
In all our markets our strongest differentiator is
that QinetiQ contains within it the integrated 
result of 50 years of investment by one of the 
most sophisticated defence nations in the world
C11968_Qinetiq_p01-09.qxd  16/9/2005  2:53 PM  Page 7 8 QinetiQ Group plc  Annual Report 2005
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT CONTINUED
The UK Technology and Products Division houses some of QinetiQ’s
very best scientists and most advanced technology. This is reflected 
in our customers and the assignments they choose us to do. Intel
selected us to develop an indium antimonide transistor as a 
candidate solution to the end of the ‘Moore’s law’ era on silicon. 
We are working with DARPA on a low-cost means of monitoring 
units in a battlespace. US customers have bought early versions of 
our passive millimetre screening systems able to detect bomb and 
gun threats at stand-off distances.
One of the principal purposes in forming S&DU was to gather together
in a single part of the organisation the wealth of experience we have
developed in commercialising technology. Our capabilities in these
much sought-after skills are apparent both from the fact that other
major corporations seek our assistance, and also by the success of the
ventures we have launched. 
This year several of our early ventures have reached important goals.
We were able to recognise the value in pSiMedica, our venture based
on our invention of porous silicon, when we accepted an offer from 
the Australian company pSiVida which resulted in an overall gain for
the year of £14.8m represented in cash and listed stock. Quintel
Technology has now begun to take orders for its multi-network 3G
antenna following the start of serious build out of 3G networks in 
the UK. The problem of maximising coverage, while minimising the
proliferation of unpopular masts, is a worldwide issue and at the
current time we have the only proven solution.
Looking forward
QinetiQ occupies a unique place at the crossroads of three powerful
demand drivers:
● First, active deployment of UK and US military forces drives the 
need to develop, integrate and field new technologies to meet
emerging threats.
● Second, security and terrorist challenges place an urgency behind
discovering new means to prevent and protect society.
● Third, the recognition by UK, European and American businesses
that rapid technology innovation is the primary means to compete
successfully in the global economy which drives the resulting
demand for innovation-led solutions.
Our strategy is to grow in each of three target sectors. In Defence 
and Technology (D&T), we will build on our core franchise in research
and test and evaluation to transition our technology into equipment
and services programmes through partnerships with the OEMs. 
In S&DU, we will exploit our differentiated technologies into niche
markets by way of product and service offerings, partnerships,
ventures and licensing. In the US, we will continue our rapid growth
leveraging the Group’s incomparable technology strengths and
selectively adding to our chosen sub-sectors of technology, systems
engineering, and federal IT services.
Our unique heritage gives us capabilities to meet these demands,
creating loyal customers with expanding relationships. This organic
growth opportunity, combined with our proven ability to grow 
through strategic acquisitions, will offer our customers an even larger
and more comprehensive set of technologies and services.
The private equity transaction with Carlyle in 2003 created the
opportunity for QinetiQ to start to fulfil its potential. The past year 
has reshaped and repositioned the Company to address these
opportunities. The world we now occupy is altogether more
challenging than the public sector environment from which many 
of our staff came, but all our staff, from whatever background, have
risen magnificently to the challenges. They have embraced the
changes and are focused on our core mission of delivering brilliant
solutions to important problems. Given the wealth of key issues in
both the military and commercial fields for which our science and
technology can provide effective solutions, I am confident that this
Company has a strong future before it.
Sir John Chisholm
Chief Executive Officer QinetiQ Group
28 June 2005
The opportunities we are now pursuing in the US
are likely to mean that the US will make an even
larger percentage contribution to the Group by the
end of the current financial year
C11968_Qinetiq_p01-09.qxd  16/9/2005  2:53 PM  Page 8
