 6 www.QinetiQ.com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Directors’ Report – Business Review
QinetiQ’s deep customer 
relationships in the UK and 
the US, together with the 
world-class expertise and 
innovation of its employees, 
provide the capacity for longer 
term profitable growth.
Leo Quinn Chief Executive Officer
During the past year, it became apparent that our markets were 
undergoing significant changes, as Governments sought to reduce 
their budgets and their debt, while continuing in the short-term 
to conduct high levels of military operations abroad. These 
uncertainties had a marked impact on the Group’s performance, 
but also highlighted the need for substantial internal change if 
we were to chart a course to profitable and sustainable growth.
That is why, immediately following my appointment in November 
2009, I began a review of our operations and processes. That review 
is now complete and the Board has agreed our priorities and actions 
to return QinetiQ to strength.
Review of operations and processes
In recent years, QinetiQ has grown rapidly both by acquisition and by 
seeking to use its technology in industries outside its core expertise. 
To date, these investments have not delivered their expected returns 
and the Group’s net debt has risen significantly. In addition, the 
organisational structure and processes within QinetiQ have become 
overly complex and fragmented which is a barrier to effective 
performance. These factors, combined with challenging market 
conditions, make it imperative that QinetiQ ensures it has a strong 
foundation on which to build.
QinetiQ predominantly comprises a range of service businesses, 
positioned to advise and support customers to achieve efficiency 
and effectiveness in the UK and the US. These businesses are based 
on – and continue to refresh – QinetiQ’s deep customer knowledge 
and technical understanding of the aerospace, defence and 
security sectors, and are capable of providing a relatively stable and 
predictable income pattern. This capability is based on the expertise 
of our people and the relationships they develop in specific national 
markets and, over time, should create opportunities to provide 
similar services in other countries.
The Group also possesses a smaller proportion of product businesses 
with technically advanced offerings developed in-house. Today 
these products are sold principally to customers in the UK and the 
US, but the market is potentially global. By their nature – based 
on technology – these businesses have higher margins but more 
variable sales and, to date, they have been managed without 
sufficient sharing of intellectual property or scale between the 
UK and US operations to maximise opportunities and profitability. 
Our US products businesses gives us a strong route into the world’s 
most advanced defence market and we believe that this position, 
combined with the complementary skills of our research and 
expertise in the UK, has the potential for profitable growth on 
a global basis. 
Fit for the future
My focus for the Group is to deliver the full potential of the 
investments which the Group has made. This means removing 
barriers to success and focusing rigorously on the best opportunities 
created by our markets and our own strengths. My objective is to 
build a new trajectory for QinetiQ, one with a very clear direction 
and more urgent pace. Our customers’ needs, the development of 
offerings which address those needs and their successful execution, 
must be our touchstone. I am making changes to ensure that QinetiQ 
competes successfully in challenging markets. We need to remain 
competitive, have robust processes which make us fit for the future, 
fit for growth, and that means tackling the way we all work. We are 
focused on reducing our costs, improving our efficiency, stabilising 
our business and becoming more flexible and agile. I set out my 
priorities over the following pages.
I believe these changes are essential to provide the Group with a 
solid foundation. QinetiQ’s deep customer relationships in the UK 
and the US, the two leading markets in its core areas, together with 
the world-class expertise and innovation of its employees, provide 
the capacity for longer-term profitable growth once the Group’s 
operations and processes have been returned to strength. 
Trading environment and outlook
This has been a difficult year for QinetiQ, with challenging 
conditions in our core markets and considerable internal change. 
Our markets are likely to remain uncertain for some time, but 
we now have a decisive programme of self-help to restore value. 
We are acting to make our costs more competitive, our productivity 
better and our debt lower. We are changing our structure to benefit 
from QinetiQ’s overall strengths. Most of all, we are working to 
transform our culture into one based on leadership, accountability 
and empowerment of what is an outstanding group of people. 
With these immediate steps, the Board believes that it will meet 
its expectations for the current year. At the same time our goal is to 
build the right foundation for a return to profitable and sustainable 
growth in the future. 6 www.QinetiQ.com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7
Our service businesses address national markets and our product businesses 
address a global market.
US Services
— — — — — — —
Systems Engineering
Group
+
Mission Solutions
Group
UK Services
— — — — — — —
Managed Services
• Test and Evaluation
• Aerospace
Advice
Training Delivery
Australia
Global Products
— — — — — — — —
Technology 
Solutions (UK)
+
Technology
Solutions
Group (US)
20% > Products > Supply 
> Globally targeted
80% > Services > Advice
> Nationally focused
My
Contribution
My Contribution, introduced 
in March this year, is the 
umbrella activity driving 
continuous improvement, 
employee engagement and 
operational performance 
within QinetiQ. It is a tracked 
and measured productivity 
programme by which all 
employees are able to 
generate and voice their 
ideas and, more importantly, 
convert them quickly into 
projects that deliver concrete 
business beneﬁts.
Commercialisation
of innovation
Value for
money
Cash
365-days
selling
One
QinetiQ
Productivity
Our structure
The My Contribution programme 8 www.QinetiQ.com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9
Chief Executive Officer’s review (continued)
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Our priorities
To strengthen our foundations and build a future path to sustainable 
and profitable growth, the following priorities to create value have 
been put in place.
>  Set a clear direction which reduces the span of focus and matches 
both customer needs and core QinetiQ strength – Going forward, 
our investment decisions will be guided by building on our 
known strengths. Some parts of the original QinetiQ strategy 
have proven successful over recent years – focusing on the needs 
of existing customers, exploiting the potential of our expert 
technical services and the decision to enter the US marketplace, 
the largest defence market in the world. However, we have not 
been successful at commercialising our technology or exploiting 
it in adjacent markets. As yet, we have not achieved the potential 
from extending into defence markets beyond the UK and the US, 
and from fully integrating and developing some of our acquisitions. 
Unquestionably, QinetiQ’s strength lies in its ability to provide 
customers with trusted advice, working in close partnership, 
and using its expertise in both technology and specific markets to 
enable customers to have greater efficiencies and to take effective 
decisions. This work, including the research we conduct on 
customers’ behalf, in turn continually refreshes the knowledge 
and value of our people to provide innovative services. 
>  Simplify and align our operating structure with the new direction, 
removing unnecessary layers – The Group’s current fragmented 
structure has hindered development of its full potential. The 
operating model and management of the service businesses, 
which comprise approximately 80% of our total sales, differ 
markedly from that of our product businesses, which currently 
account for about 20% of sales. A new structure comprising three 
divisions – US Services, UK Services and Global Products – will 
enable greater focus to leverage QinetiQ’s expertise, technology, 
customer relationships and business development skills to enable 
sustainable and profitable growth.
>  Increase transparency and control through all levels – Following 
a period of growth, it is essential to put disciplined standard 
processes which aid transparency and management visibility into 
the operations. This includes standard reporting of performance 
information across the Group and regular reviews of talent, 
innovation and cost reduction.
>  Upgrade leadership to ensure a commercial, value-oriented 
mindset – Given the challenges ahead for the business, it is
vital we have the right strength of team in place and remove 
unnecessary management layers. Continually evaluating and 
upgrading the top leaders, setting clear expectations which align 
performance and behaviours with the Group’s overall objectives, 
with appropriate incentives to drive profit and cash, are key to 
our achievement of success. Increased communications and 
engagement by leaders, both with their own teams and customers, 
and the delivery of value for our shareholders, will be laid out 
in personalised leadership charters and published throughout 
the organisation. 
> Set a clear direction which reduces the span of focus and matches both 
customer needs and core QinetiQ strength
> Simplify and align our operating structure with the new direction, 
removing unnecessary layers
> Increase transparency and control through all levels
> Upgrade leadership to ensure a commercial, value-oriented mindset
> Create a strong performance culture of both accountability and 
empowerment to our people
> Establish a lower level of cost base to ensure future competitiveness
> Ensure a more uniﬁed approach Group-wide to exploit key opportunities
> Drive for cash generation to strengthen the Group's balance sheet
> Move to a new reporting structure comprising three 
divisions; US Services, UK Services and Global Products
> Introduce standardised management reporting
and regular reviews of key business drivers
> Assess the top leaders Group-wide, setting targets 
for performance and behaviours which reﬂect 
Group objectives for proﬁt and cash, and providing 
appropriate incentives
> Install a Group-wide performance management 
system and directly engage employees in the 
improvement of productivity
> Eliminate waste and reduce costs with better 
business processes and a uniﬁed QinetiQ approach
> Reduce debt by driving cash generation, including 
tight measurement of working capital to reduce
the ratio of net debt/EBITDA† to below 2.0x
> Suspend payment of dividend on QinetiQ's
ordinary shares for 12 months
> Return on capital employed
> Operating proﬁt
> Operating proﬁt margin
> Operating cash conversion
> Employee engagement
> Customer satisfaction
> Operating proﬁt margin
> Employee engagement
> Net debt/EBITDA ratio†
> Operating cash conversion
Strategy
Performance
KPIs
How we will operate Action plan KPIs 8 www.QinetiQ.com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9
>  Create a strong performance culture of both accountability and 
empowerment to our people – QinetiQ needs to build a culture 
which embraces individual contribution and responsibility 
through measurement. A new performance management system, 
My Personal Success Plan, will focus on identifying our top leaders 
of the future and helping each person to develop their potential. 
We will actively enrol the knowledge and ideas of our teams 
through the roll-out of My Contribution, a tracked and measured 
productivity programme which embeds the concept of employee 
engagement to improve business performance. We are refreshing 
our focus on Health and Safety as this is fundamental not only 
to employee well-being but also to the nature of the work that 
we undertake. As part of this, in response to the findings of the 
Haddon-Cave report, we are recruiting a new Group Safety 
Director to the Executive Team.
>  Establish a lower level of cost base to ensure future 
competitiveness – Our customers are all under increasing pressure 
to gain better value for their investments and, as a supplier to these 
markets, we must have a competitive cost base. We are therefore 
re-examining and streamlining our business processes through a 
programme called Fit4Growth, focused on improving our systems 
and procedures to ensure we reduce and retain tight control of our 
costs, eliminate inefficiencies and address loss-making activities. 
And, whilst we will continue to invest in developing our businesses 
and our people, this must be financed by rigorously reducing 
other costs.
>  Ensure a more unified approach Group-wide to exploit key 
opportunities – We need a more unified approach to exploit key 
opportunities, so that we leverage our customer knowledge and 
technical expertise better, including our approach to untapped 
opportunities in smaller international markets outside the UK and 
the US. Through a more unified approach to working as one team 
and making key decisions on a global basis, we can develop our 
best opportunities and most effective routes to market to build 
QinetiQ’s reputation and position.
>  Drive for cash generation to strengthen the Group’s balance 
sheet – We intend to reduce our indebtedness. We have identified 
a number of ‘self-help’ measures to drive cash generation harder, 
including the reduction of working capital, lowering costs and the 
elimination of loss-making activities.
> Set a clear direction which reduces the span of focus and matches both 
customer needs and core QinetiQ strength
> Simplify and align our operating structure with the new direction, 
removing unnecessary layers
> Increase transparency and control through all levels
> Upgrade leadership to ensure a commercial, value-oriented mindset
> Create a strong performance culture of both accountability and 
empowerment to our people
> Establish a lower level of cost base to ensure future competitiveness
> Ensure a more uniﬁed approach Group-wide to exploit key opportunities
> Drive for cash generation to strengthen the Group's balance sheet
> Move to a new reporting structure comprising three 
divisions; US Services, UK Services and Global Products
> Introduce standardised management reporting
and regular reviews of key business drivers
> Assess the top leaders Group-wide, setting targets 
for performance and behaviours which reﬂect 
Group objectives for proﬁt and cash, and providing 
appropriate incentives
> Install a Group-wide performance management 
system and directly engage employees in the 
improvement of productivity
> Eliminate waste and reduce costs with better 
business processes and a uniﬁed QinetiQ approach
> Reduce debt by driving cash generation, including 
tight measurement of working capital to reduce
the ratio of net debt/EBITDA† to below 2.0x
> Suspend payment of dividend on QinetiQ's
ordinary shares for 12 months
> Return on capital employed
> Operating proﬁt
> Operating proﬁt margin
> Operating cash conversion
> Employee engagement
> Customer satisfaction
> Operating proﬁt margin
> Employee engagement
> Net debt/EBITDA ratio†
> Operating cash conversion
Strategy
Performance
KPIs
How we will operate Action plan KPIs
† The gearing ratio is net debt to adjusted EBITDA and the definition is in the 
glossary on page 98. 
