 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Directors’ report: Business review Directors’ report: Corporate governance Financial statements
3
Chief Executive Officer’s Review  
Summary of Priorities
We are now 12 months into our 24 month self-help 
programme to restore value, to strengthen our 
foundations, and build a path to future sustainable 
and profitable growth. The following priorities 
have been put in place:
Focus
– Extracting value from the portfolio
Cultural transformation
– Building a more competitive culture
Strengthen the balance sheet
– Enable longer-term options
For more information go to  
www.QinetiQ.com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 4
Chief Executive 
Officer’s review
Business review
Update on priorities
In May 2010, QinetiQ set out a 24 month self-help programme with 
three priorities: to refocus the businesses, to transform the culture 
and to strengthen the balance sheet. 
Focus
The Group’s new structure of three divisions – US Services, UK 
Services and Global Products – aligns its expertise and technology 
efficiently with customers’ needs. Each division made progress  
on implementation in the period:
• full integration of the US Services businesses is underway to 
reduce duplicated overhead, improving the ability of the division 
to compete effectively;
• the realignment of UK Services with specific customer segments 
was completed in the first half, with further refinements likely  
to reflect evolving customer requirements;
• the Global Products framework is now in place and delivering 
a common approach to development of the product portfolio; 
for example, the development of E-X-Drive® for the US Ground 
Combat Vehicle programme.
The portfolio is reviewed on an ongoing basis to address both 
performance issues and key focus areas. During the year:
•  the Group completed the disposal of the S&IS business and 
acquired Sensoptics Ltd to support development of the 
OptaSense® business;
•  existing UK synthetic training and simulation capabilities were 
brought together as one business within UK Services;
•  a common US/UK cyber platform is under development to 
globalise the Group’s cyber capabilities. 
Cultural transformation
The world-class domain expertise and innovation of QinetiQ’s 
scientists and engineers, together with its deep customer 
relationships in both the UK and US, provide the potential for 
longer-term profitable growth. Delivering this requires the right 
leadership, measurement and processes to enable empowerment 
and accountability, as well as a more flexible and competitive cost 
base. The following steps were taken to achieve this:
• more than 80% of the Group’s executive team has been 
upgraded, as well as approximately half of senior management 
in the UK and a third in the US. New performance-related 
remuneration was introduced for the UK leadership team,  
to replace legacy terms and conditions;
The Group made significant progress in the year. Its programme  
of self-help resulted in increased competitiveness and a strong 
foundation for the future. Throughout what was a difficult period 
in the markets, all our businesses have worked closely with their 
customers to ensure that QinetiQ is well-positioned to create value 
over the medium term.
Through a relentless focus on our key priorities, we rebased  
the business and put it on a strong foundation for the future.  
I am particularly pleased that we achieved a number of our goals 
ahead of schedule, principally the refinancing. This major milestone, 
completed 12 months ahead of schedule, culminated in a 
strengthened balance sheet and the confidence to reinstate the 
dividend. In addition, the Group has no debt maturity until 2016, 
providing a strong foundation to fund future growth. While we are 
making good progress, we remain focused on the next 12 months, 
to build on our progress and deliver a more agile, commercial and 
efficient business for the future. 
Trading environment 
QinetiQ’s principal markets remain challenging, with defence 
budgets on both sides of the Atlantic under pressure in light of 
government programmes to reduce fiscal deficits. 
In the US, after six months operating under a Continuing Resolution, 
President Obama signed the Defense Appropriation Bill on 15 April 
2011, which funds the Department of Defense for the remainder  
of the US Government 2011 fiscal year. Work within the US 
Government now turns to the budget for the 2012 fiscal year, 
accompanied by a review by the Department of Defense (DoD) to 
evaluate long-term spending plans. Over the medium term, budget 
reductions are expected in order to generate efficiency savings. 
Against this backdrop of fiscal austerity, customer behaviours  
are changing as they look ‘to do more with less.’ 
In the UK, it is anticipated that budgets will be reduced to meet 
the Government’s target of an 8% cumulative reduction in 
defence spending over the next four years. In December 2010, the 
Government published its Consultation Paper, ‘Equipment, Support 
and Technology for UK Defence and Security’, on the role which 
industry will play in future defence programmes and the resulting 
White Paper is scheduled for this summer. In April 2011, the 
MOD also implemented its Comprehensive Commitment Control 
Regime, which requires the approval of senior civil servants for new 
expenditure, except in key categories such as those which support 
current operations, the strategic deterrent and safety. Overall,  
the imperative for change within the MOD is likely to continue  
to restrict and delay the authorisation of new contracts.
Leo Quinn
Chief Executive Officer
*  Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary.  
The gearing ratio is adjusted net debt: EBITDA calculated in accordance with the  
Group’s credit facility ratios.  QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Directors’ report: Business review Directors’ report: Corporate governance Financial statements
5
• in February 2011, the Group signed a new five-year revolving 
credit facility, totalling £275m denominated in sterling and 
dollars, which is currently undrawn;
• in May 2011, the US$135m private placement note, due to 
mature in 2013, was repaid from surplus cash.
As a result of these actions, the Group has no debt maturity until 
2016, providing a strong foundation to fund future growth.
Ongoing priorities
Over the next 12 months, the Group’s key goal is to complete its  
24 month programme to build a leaner, more agile QinetiQ, focused 
on – and competitive in – its areas of core capability. The initiatives 
which are transforming the Group’s culture and processes must  
be sustained and embedded. Improvements in productivity will  
be extended, as will the drive to strengthen the balance sheet.  
The portfolio will continue to be aligned with customers’ needs, 
both through non-core disposals and by funding carefully selected 
areas in which QinetiQ has a clearly established position and, 
therefore, a base for value creation over the medium term.
Leo Quinn
Chief Executive Officer
27 May 2011
• common business review processes have been implemented 
across the Group to ensure transparency and the ability to 
manage outcomes and react quickly;
• two programmes – My Contribution and Fit 4 Growth – have 
been introduced. Together, these engage all employees in raising 
performance and provide a single end-to-end process, from bid 
to project delivery, driving ongoing improvements in productivity 
and value delivered to customers;
• in the UK, a more commercial way of working was needed to 
improve performance. Sales leadership was upgraded, new 
incentive plans introduced and over 3,000 employees trained 
in value-based selling, negotiation and project delivery. During 
the year, the business saw a 9% improvement in MOD customer 
satisfaction scores, while a recent employee survey showed 
higher engagement levels and a 14% rise in the leadership  
score since 2009;
• changes to UK employee terms and conditions, including revised 
redundancy arrangements, came into effect on 1 July 2010 after 
a 75% favourable vote by union members. The combination 
of introducing a new performance management system, 
restructuring the UK businesses and rationalising the technology 
portfolio, resulted in a 15% reduction in UK headcount, a 
reduction in layers of management and in overhead costs, and 
addressed areas of systemic under-utilisation with minimal loss  
of key capability. Further reductions to the UK cost base have 
been achieved through structured procurement of goods and 
services – including IT and facilities management – and the 
streamlining of UK suppliers.
Balance sheet
A key goal for the 24 month programme was to restore 
QinetiQ’s balance sheet to strength through self-help. Significant 
improvement was made in the first 12 months:
• rigorous Group-wide processes and the engagement of 
employees at all levels drove strong underlying operating cash 
conversion of 183% (2010: 145%);
• the Group’s net debt at 31 March 2011 improved to £260.9m  
(31 March 2010: £457.4m);
• the gearing ratio was reduced to 1.4x net debt: EBITDA
†
  
(31 March 2010: 2.5x);
US Services
• Aerospace operations
• Engineering 
management
• Information services
• Mission solutions/cyber
• Software and systems 
engineering
UK Services
• Air engineering 
• Test and evaluation
• Training and simulation
• Cyber security and C4ISR
• Programme and 
procurement support
Global Products
• Survivability
• Unmanned systems
• Energy from waste
• Vehicle power 
management
• OptaSense®
†
  The gearing ratio is adjusted net debt to EDITDA calculated in accordance with the 
Group’s credit facilities.
