 Quantica plc 
Annual Report 2003
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 04
Quantica consists of five main Divisions and one
relatively new Division operating in Construction
Recruitment. The five main Divisions are Healthcare
and Technology recruitment both of which are
contracting businesses, Search & Selection and Legal
recruitment which are both permanent recruitment
businesses and Training, a Division offering publicly-
funded work based training services.
Overall 2003 was similar to the previous year – difficult.
By that I am referring to the economic climate as a
whole and the sectors we operate in. We knew this
would be the case at the outset and we were prepared
for it. Our main objective was to ensure our cost base
was aligned with our revenues, whilst being careful not
to prejudice the opportunities for future growth when
markets recovered. We believe that by maintaining
profitability in the difficult first half, and by increasing
profitability in the second half, we have achieved both
these objectives.
Operational review
Although we knew the year would be difficult there
is good news in each of our Divisions.
Healthcare has once again led the way, growing revenue
by 36%, net fee income by 37% and operating profit
by more than 17%. At the half-year we reported a
slight decline in operating profit compared to the same
period in 2002. This was caused by costs increasing
in relation to the introduction of Care Standards,
supervision requirements and the increased cost
of Criminal Records Bureau (“CRB”) checks which had
more than doubled. We said this would be a one off
and this has proved to be the case. Operating profit
in the second half increased by nearly 50% over the
corresponding period last year.
The market in the nursing areas of Healthcare has
become much more competitive recently. However
nursing only accounts for around 10% of our business
and our primary markets in care and the qualified
sector are holding up well. In fact, during the course
of the year we have been able to improve gross
margins in both these areas.
We will continue to grow the business geographically
in the case of care workers and we will continue
to pursue the growth of the qualified side from our
Healthcare head office in Colchester.
The Legal Division has seen its markets improve in
2003. Revenue, net fee income and profit all improved
in the first half and in the same period last year. There
was also a considerable increase over last year as a
whole. Our cost base remained relatively static and
therefore most of the improvement fell through to the
bottom line, with operating profit increasing by 40%.
The main office in Colchester had a good year, Cardiff a
somewhat disappointing one and Elland, the newest
operation as far as Legal is concerned, performed
to plan. We will continue to grow the Legal business
organically across the three current locations
throughout the UK. 
Search & Selection had another good year. Operating
profit increased by 57% in the second half compared
to last year and increased by 23% for the year as
a whole on net fee income at a similar rate to 2002.
This illustrates that sensible reductions can be made
to the cost base without prejudicing performance.
Search & Selection operates from three offices. Elland,
which performed similarly to 2002, Harrogate who
have now established themselves firmly in the retail
market and Aylesbury who more than doubled their
operating profit compared to the prior year.
”
“
Although we knew the year would
be difficult there is good news in
each of our Divisions.
