  
 
5 
Chief Executive’s Report 
 
I am pleased to report on a very successful first year on the AIM market for Quixant.  I am delighted with the 
performance of the company, the progress we have made over the past year and our positioning going into 2014.  
We have delivered growth in both revenue and profits through disciplined execution of our corporate strategy and 
have put in place the foundations for continued growth over future years as a public company. 
 
During the year we grew our revenue by 12% from $21.6m to $24.2m, adjusted EBITDA by 25% from $5.1m to 
$6.4m and our profit before tax by 20% from $5.0m to $6.0m.  We have remained strongly cash generative, and 
during the year our operations generated cash of $2.5m which, combined with proceeds from the issuance of new 
share capital at IPO of $5.9m ($4.8m after expenses), left the company with a healthy net cash balance of $4.9m 
at the end of the year.  We have also made material investment into our business and grown our employee 
headcount from 50 to 63 over the year. 
 
When we embarked on the process of listing Quixant on AIM one of the key drivers behind this decision was the 
Directors’ view that the company would benefit from the heightened profile, credibility and security it would offer 
among major customers and prospects, many of whom are large public listed companies.    We have already seen 
evidence that the additional profile of the business following our AIM listing has reaped rewards in terms of the 
business opportunities which have evolved over 2013 and the recognition the company has received by major 
game machine manufacturers.   
 
Quixant’s core products, highly optimised computer platforms which are designed to drive pay-to-play gaming 
machines, are a crucial and complex component within these machines and customers depend on us as a trusted 
supplier.  Once our product has been designed into their machines customers require a stable supply for many 
years.  They therefore place significant emphasis, as part of their due diligence process, on the long term stability 
of suppliers of these key components.  We believe our listing on AIM gives them considerable comfort. 
Dynamic towards outsourcing 
 
Due to the specialist requirements of the gaming market historically many of the larger game machine 
manufacturers had no choice other than to develop their own computer platform technology in-house, and in doing 
so this could give them a competitive edge.  However, Quixant’s cutting edge computer platforms, which are 
specifically designed for gaming, enable game machine manufacturers to focus on developing the most popular 
games.  The vital ingredient to ensuring a successful machine is manufacturers having better game revenues than 
their competitors, which is the principal metric that site owners assess in deciding which machines to install on 
their floors.  It is therefore vitally important that manufacturers focus their resources on these key areas of game 
development and innovative cabinet design.     
 
An outsourcing model provides many additional benefits, the commoditisation of the computer platforms 
providing all manufacturers, big and small, access to the same hardware technology. Smaller manufacturers are 
already well progressed on the transition to outsourced computer platforms as they do not typically have the scale 
of R&D teams or the purchasing power to be able to develop or manufacture their own solutions.    
 
Quixant’s design expertise and knowledge of the global gaming market combined with our Far Eastern 
manufacturing capability enables us to deliver platforms that provide optimised solutions using the latest 
technology which are cost competitive compared to the in-house alternative.  Quixant’s market opportunity is 
therefore driving this trend for outsourcing with the larger, global game machine manufacturers. 
Broadened customer base 
 
During 2013, we made good progress in penetrating and securing new major customers.  An analysis of our 
customer revenue attribution reveals an increase in the number of customers contributing over $1 million revenue 
from one to four in the year.  We have also increased our total number of customers from 63 to 82 in the year, 
demonstrating the strength of the sales pipeline and the headroom we have to materially grow our market share. 
   
 
6 
 
 
 
We classify our customers and prospects in terms of three tiers of manufacturer: “Tier 1” incorporates the largest 
gaming machine manufacturers, typically producing over 25,000 machines per annum.  “Tier 2” typically produce 
between 5,000 and 25,000 machines per annum, and “Tier 3” typically produce less than 5,000 machines per 
annum).  We completed the “design-in” of our products with two new “Tier 2” customers and commenced volume 
shipments during 2013.  We also formalised our arrangement with one of these Tier 2 customers in December 
2013 with the signing of a three year supply agreement. 
 
Towards the latter part of the year we commenced the design-in process with another Tier 2 customer in Europe 
and delivered first product samples in early 2014.  The design-in phase involves significant interaction between 
Quixant and customer engineering teams to evaluate our products’ fit for their needs and aspects of our standard 
hardware and software are tailored to meet any unique requirements.  Typically this design-in process takes several 
months but is a key part of Quixant’s value proposition in serving not simply as a supplier but also as a 
collaborative development partner for customers.   
 
Tier 3 and some Tier 2 manufacturers have already embraced the benefits of outsourcing the design and supply 
of their computer platforms to a third party, and we are now seeing this trend migrating into the Tier 1 
manufacturers.  We believe our class-leading technology, reputation and industry contacts make Quixant well 
positioned to benefit from this trend, leading to exciting future growth opportunities. 
 
Ainsworth Game Technology (“Ainsworth”) remains a key customer for Quixant.  The winning of Ainsworth’s 
business back in 2007 was a major milestone in Quixant’s history. Quixant supply the computer platforms used 
in all of Ainsworth’s gaming machines.  Ainsworth has experienced rapid growth in the last few years, most 
recently evidenced by the strong financial performance in its interim results to December 2013.  It remains an 
excellent example of how working with Quixant can enable greater focus on core competencies that can then lead 
to increased success. Ainsworth has an outstanding record for producing games that perform significantly above 
the average.  Ainsworth continues to be a key customer to Quixant and we were delighted to be able to announce 
in February 2014 the signing of a new contract extending this relationship through to 2019. 
Product Development 
 
We continue to develop our underlying hardware and software technology.  Over 8% of our total sales revenue 
and over 17% of our gross profit is invested into R&D expenditure and over 40% of our employees are involved 
in R&D and product development. 
22
32
40
4
12
11
1 1
4
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
2011 2012 2013
Number of Customers
Customers Split by Revenue
at 31 December 2013
$10,000+
$100,000+
$1,000,000+  
 
7 
 
Through our position as the only AMD Embedded Elite partner we benefit from early access to new up-coming 
CPU and GPU technology.  This enables Quixant to release complete new gaming platforms for sale on the very 
day a new chipset is formally announced by AMD and we are often previewing these platforms several months 
before.  This reinforces Quixant’s “time to market” proposition to customers.  
 
In 2013 we launched the QXi-300, a compatible update of the successful QXi-200, which leverages similar CPU 
architecture to that used by Sony and Microsoft in their Playstation 4 and Xbox One consoles. We have also 
completed development of early samples of the QXi-306 which has been designed to meet the needs of the 
upcoming Italian Comma 6a+ law change. A variant of the QXi-306 is anticipated to be popular in Spanish and 
South American markets.  
 
At the ICE Totally Gaming show in London in early February we previewed the QX-50, our next generation high-
end platform based on a new AMD CPU and GPU which is expected to be publically released in the first half of 
2014. This product majors on the anticipated upcoming demand for games utilising 4K Ultra High Definition 
displays and we believe it is the first computer gaming platform in the market which is optimised to drive this 
display technology.  The preview of the QX-50 attracted significant interest and generated several opportunities 
with major potential customers. 
 
As a technology company Quixant is constantly striving to innovate and develop new technologies to increase the 
performance, functionality and value of our products and we act to protect these.  During the year we were granted 
a patent in the US for the innovative enclosure design used on our QXi-200 product, submitted applications for a 
further four patents and were granted a design right for the enclosure design used in the new QXi-306.  The 
mechanical designs of our products are a key differentiator and we have dedicated mechanical engineers 
responsible for developing optimised enclosures that meet the regulatory requirements of global gaming 
jurisdictions.   
Gaming market overview 
 
There are several different types (or class) of gaming machines in existence, servicing markets in different 
jurisdictions.  Each class of machine and each jurisdiction carries with it specific regulatory requirements that all 
machines must comply with to be granted a license.  This brings about significant challenges and cost for 
manufacturers aiming to supply multiple classes of machine to multiple jurisdictions.  When we design our gaming 
platforms we aim to create solutions which meet the regulatory requirements of all major global gaming markets, 
facilitating a more straightforward process for manufacturers in achieving regulatory approvals.   
 
The major types/class of machine which are in operation globally are: 
 AWP (Amusement With Prize) - machines with limited prizes that are often classified as amusement 
machines rather than gambling.  These machines are common in bars, pubs and clubs in the UK and 
Europe. 
 SWP (Skill With Prize) – similar to AWP, but require a degree of player skill  
 VLT (Video Lottery Terminal) – is generally a gaming machine that operates in such a way as to be 
legally classed under lottery rules. They are connected to central servers that generally determine game 
outcome and enable jurisdictions to collect their share of revenues 
 FOBT (Fixed Odds Betting terminal) – UK definition for slot machines located in betting shops 
 Class II – US classification of a gaming machine, similar to VLT  
 Class III – US classification that describes a classic slot machine, where the outcome is determined 
locally and is random. This is the classic “Vegas slot” 
 Pachislo – Japanese video slot machines derived from the Pachinko game. 
 
Quixant targets manufactures of all classes of machines through its range of products that are targeted at different 
price/performance points. Values of complete machines range from €2,000 for a European AWP machine up to 
$25,000 for high-end casino machines installed in Australia and North America. 
 
The global gaming market is dynamic and there is a general trend towards governments legalising gambling under 
controlled regulatory frameworks.  New markets being legalised for gaming present opportunities for 
manufacturers to increase their installed base.  We are particularly excited by North America, where there is   
 
8 
already legislation expected to result in 90,000 new slot machine being installed over the next three years.  There 
are is also pending applications for further expansion which could contribution a further 90,000 new machines to 
the market. 
   
Asia remains buoyant and Macau is now the largest gambling market in the world and has undergone major 
growth over the last few years.  Across the 35 casinos in Macau gross gaming revenues amounted to around 
$303bn in 2012 which represented a growth of 14% on the previous year.  There is also expectation that the 
Taiwanese government will legislate to open the first casino in 2019 to compete with Macau, Singapore and the 
Philippines.   
 
Casinos are currently banned in Japan, but Japanese lawmakers from the ruling Liberal Democratic Party 
submitted a bill to parliament in December 2013 to legalize casinos.  If this bill is passed, it would result in the 
opening of what is estimated to be the world’s second largest gaming market. 
 
Italy is Europe’s biggest gaming market with around 370,000 AWP and 51,000 VLT machines installed. The 
Italian authorities are currently drafting a new law which, once effective, will require all existing AWP machines 
to be replaced over time.  
 
Quixant expects the number of gaming machines globally to increase in 2014 which is in addition to the 
replacement market which we expect to account for the largest overall volume. 
Global locations 
 
When considering the geographic markets for Quixant the location of the slot manufacturers is not necessarily 
where the gaming takes place. The major manufacturers tend to be located in regions that have had long 
established regulated gaming, although in recent years there has been an increase in new locations, particularly 
Macau and Singapore. Quixant believes that its four locations in the UK, USA, Taiwan and Italy are well 
positioned to cover the global gaming machine manufacturing base.  
 
The US has a long heritage in gaming and many of the global Tier 1 manufacturers have headquarters or major 
operations in Las Vegas.  We made the decision to establish Quixant USA in 2010 as a key strategic location and 
towards the end of 2013 we significantly expanded our US operation to reflect the importance of the market for 
Quixant.  We are the only computer platform manufacturer with their US Headquarters in Las Vegas.  Our US 
operation is responsible for sales, logistics as well as local technical support and training for North American 
customers.   
   
 
9 
 
Quixant USA office 
 
We established our Taiwan branch in 2007 and since then the operations there have expanded significantly to 
currently employing over 40 people.  All of Quixant’s products are procured, manufactured and undergo rigorous 
testing under the management of our Taiwan operations.  A majority of the electronic hardware design work is 
also undertaken by the engineering team in Taiwan. Quixant procures all components directly from suppliers for 
cost and control reasons and we utilise sub-contract manufacturing for the assembly of the printed circuit boards.  
This arrangement has a high degree of scalability and flexibility. 
 
Quixant Italia is the Group’s software development, gaming technology innovation and main customer support 
centre.  All our platforms are supplied with comprehensive software and drivers which accelerate the time taken 
for customers to adopt our platforms and integrate them into the rest of their machines.  The software developed 
by Quixant in Italy forms a key part of our product proposition and reduces the resources the customer has to 
expend developing software which does not contribute to game success. 
 
Quixant UK Ltd is the Group’s sales and marketing arm and is responsible for all sales outside North America.  
All marketing efforts globally are coordinated from Quixant UK Ltd to ensure a consistent, strong brand image. 
Marketing 
 
We believe we have developed a strong brand in Quixant.  It is our belief that the Quixant name can be developed 
to be synonymous with computer gaming platforms for driving pay-to-play gaming machines.  We have spent 
considerable time in developing the brand in terms of product styling and presentation, marketing collateral and 
high quality, high profile presence at exhibitions globally.   
 
In 2013, we made significant investments in our presence at the two major global trade events: ICE Totally 
Gaming in London and G2E in Las Vegas with very positive results.   
 
   
 
10 
 
G2E 2013 Exhibition Stand 
Current Trading Outlook 
 
Quixant has grown strongly over the year but we still have a very small percentage of the total available market.  
Our confidence in the business model, the strength of our products and our scope to grow has meant we have 
always taken a long-term approach to the business.  We believe by investing in being the leading supplier of 
computer platforms for gaming we will achieve much greater penetration in all tiers of customer on a global basis.  
Whilst there are cycles in individual markets there is no doubting the strength of the demand for gaming globally 
and the need of governments to collect taxes on gaming revenues.  This combination ensures the long-term future 
of gaming.  We shipped around 21,800 boards in 2013, up from around 18,500 in 2012.  We believe there have 
typically been around 450,000-500,000 new or replacement machines installed in the market in recent years so 
we maintain less than a 5% market share. 
 
The new financial year has started in line with expectations with volume sales commencing from one of our new 
Tier 2 customers.  Our current order book is strong and as of the end of March 2014 was over double that as at 
end of March last year.  We look forward to another year of strong growth. 
