  
 
4 
Chairman’s statement 
 
2013 has been a transformational year for Quixant. We have made excellent progress financially, operationally 
and commercially and enjoyed strong support from the investment community following our entry to the AIM 
market in May 2013.  I would like to thank our new shareholders for their commitment to the Company.   
 
Quixant has the benefit of operating in a large and growing niche market and offers products which are highly 
engineered to meet the very specific demands of this market.  The company currently has a small share of the total 
market and we are excited at the opportunities which lie ahead to increase this share.  The AIM listing has given 
us an increased presence and status which is invaluable in attracting the business of multi-billion dollar game 
machine manufacturers to use our products as a key component in their machines. 
 
The company has a team of remarkably knowledgeable and committed individuals and I would like to thank them 
for their efforts over the year.  The share incentive scheme, which was put in place at the time of the flotation, 
provides long term motivation of the broad employee base. 
 
Our financial results reflect strong growth in both revenue and profits compared to 2012 and the capital raised as 
part of the admission to AIM further strengthened our healthy balance sheet.  The Board feels it is appropriate to 
propose a full year dividend of 1.0p per share to be paid to shareholders in May.  Going forward we intend to 
maintain a progressive dividend policy. 
 
We continue to develop our systems and resources to support our planned growth and also we continue to add 
specialised technical skills to strengthen our product development functions to maintain our leading market 
position.  We are well positioned going into 2014 to meet market expectations for further growth with a very 
strong order book, several major active new business opportunities and increased brand awareness and presence 
in the market. 
 
  
