 Power rectifier – Power
management plays an
increasing role in the
design of portable
equipment, such as 
laptop computers. 
Abacus Group plc   5
General Review
The year under review was challenging for the Group in all 
its markets. The industry problems in our territories were
characterised by reduced volume demand from customers,
continued price pressure on commodity products, and
transfer of business by global customers to lower cost
manufacturing regions.
It is impossible to avoid the consequences of lower volumes
and prices, but our strategy of focusing on regional, rather
than global customers has minimised the impact on the Group.
In the UK our sales fell by 5.4%, and in Nordic markets by
11% in local currency. Our staffing levels recognise that overall
workloads do not reduce to the same degree as volumes and
price, and this, combined with our reputation for high quality
customer service and supplier support, has enabled the Group
to grow its market share despite fierce competition. AFDEC
statistics show that our market share has grown in the UK to
14.0% from 12.9%, and has been maintained at 5.4% in 
the Nordic region. This increase in share reflects our focus 
on customers more likely to remain committed to local
manufacturing, the width and strength of our product offering
and the commitment to keeping the number of skilled staff
required to provide a consistent level of service.
Component volumes, average selling prices, and workloads
as measured by the number of line items shipped, are a good
reflection of market activity and are measures we closely
monitor. Comparing this year to last in our UK distribution
businesses, volumes fell by 1%, and average selling prices 
by 8%, but workloads rose by 2.3%. In the Nordic region, 
the tougher market showed a different picture, with volumes
falling by 6.5%, average selling prices by 6% and workloads
by 8.5%.
We reduced operating costs by 8.6% in 2003. Through a
carefully managed programme of natural wastage and
selective redundancy, we have reduced our distribution
headcount from 548 to 516 whilst achieving the service
standards required by the Group’s customers. The initial phase
of our programme to upgrade our UK facilities was the
opening in November 2001 of the new warehouse, which 
has contributed to this improved efficiency. Its initial period of
operation required that new staff, unaccustomed to this
industry, be trained and their skills and job knowledge raised 
to our expected standard. In its second year of operation, the
total transaction workload increased by 9.6%, the error rate
reduced by 35% and the headcount by 11%. The final phase
was to enlarge our office facilities and this was completed
during the summer of 2003. This project transformed our
Newbury freehold headquarters from the original Abacus
warehouse into an efficient office block. These modern facilities
have been completed at a capital cost of £1.5 million, a far
more cost effective option than a move to different premises.
Individual Company Review
All our distribution businesses pursue a similar philosophy,
which is to offer as wide a product range as possible in order
to be in tune with the widespread market trend towards
supply chain management and vendor reduction; to work at
design level with both existing and new customers in order to
be involved in the proliferation of new products that typifies
the electronics industry; and to combine these features with
an unusually high level of personal service and commitment.
Abacus Polar, our largest subsidiary, has strengthened its UK
market position. This has been achieved primarily by giving
customer service the highest priority through our established
structure of local offices and dedicated sales staff. We provide
highly qualified technical support for the majority of products
and have continued to invest in new product and market
opportunities such as GSM, GPS modules and Microsoft
Windows Embedded Software.
Chief Executive’s Review
Abacus Polar, our largest subsidiary, has strengthened its UK market position.
This has been achieved primarily by giving customer service the highest priority
through our established structure of local offices and dedicated sales staff. 6 Abacus Group plc
The migration of global customers has had a minimal 
direct impact on sales revenue, but has led to our major
competitors seeking to refocus on our traditional customer
base. Whilst this is putting some pressure on our gross
margins we believe that our long standing relationships
combined with an ability to demonstrate high service levels
have enabled us to maintain sales. However, we will not
stand still and we follow a path of continuous improvement
to ensure our service and product offering meets our
customers’ expectations. 
Micromark C&CD has also performed well, justifying our
strategy of having more than one business in the major
markets. We introduced the Maxim Dallas franchise during
the previous financial year, and this franchise has brought
new customers and sales revenue to the Group. During the
year, Silicon Concepts was integrated into Micromark
resulting in significantly lower operating costs. 
Promax, our Nordic distribution business, has faced tough
markets and experienced the sharpest sales decline of our
Group companies due to the historic significance of the
telecoms sector in Sweden and Finland. However, we have
continued to seek opportunities to expand its product offering
and believe it is in an improved position to take advantage of
any market growth. The business has maintained its gross
margin of 21%, whilst operating costs have been reduced.
During the year, Promax returned a small loss, but as a result
of recent cost reductions we are confident that it will return to
profit once market conditions improve.
Trident, the display and related products specialist, performed
well and despite its distribution business being affected by
the market as much as our other divisions, achieved growth
of 10.9% by comparison to the previous year. This came
from the billing of its system build projects, particularly in the
military area. Whilst opportunities in the medical industry
have not billed as quickly as anticipated, we remain confident
that this focus on system build opportunities is becoming 
a significant contributor to growth. The Benelux operation 
has established itself well and our expansion into the 
Nordic region is under way. With the support of major
franchises such as Toshiba and Microsoft we see this 
as a good growth opportunity.
It is our intention during the coming year to similarly expand
our displays business into the Italian market, using the existing
presence of ECC. Microsoft have already confirmed their
support in this respect.
Our electro-mechanical assembly businesses, CTL and CCS,
have both suffered from the difficulties of the UK market but
have continued to contribute significantly to the overall
profitability of the Group. They remain strategically important,
offering customers differentiation from our competition, and in
addition will provide a valuable service to the system build
division of Trident as it develops in the future.
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
Automotive 3%
Customer Sectors
Industrial control 14%
Other 11%
Security 9%
Instrumentation 7%
Distribution 5%
Communication 5%
Audio Visual 5%
Printer 3%
Power 3%
Contract Manufacturi
(Global) 4%
Contract 
Manufacturing 
(Local) 31% Abacus Group plc   7
Dubilier, our “own brand” component business, largely sells
commodity products and has continued to experience price
reductions, particularly in the passive component area.
However, we have successfully expanded these products into
the Nordic region since our acquisition of Promax, and intend
to repeat this in other European countries, such as in Italy
through ECC.
During the year the Group purchased 9% of ECC, and
subsequent to the year end purchased a further 51%. ECC is
a distributor of a broad range of electronic components and
computer products based in Milan and has a network of
regional sales offices throughout Italy, with a similar market
approach to Abacus Polar and Promax.
ECC brings to the Group a presence in the Italian distribution
market, estimated by Europartner Consultants to be 1.2 billion
in 2002, and a number of exclusive franchises in passive and
electromechanical products which give it a strong presence in
the major Italian customers. Sales in the year to 30 September
2003 were f40.4 million (£27.4 million).
Outlook
Last year we stated “market conditions remain tough” and
that “management will continue to direct its attention to the
fundamentals of the business – sales and gross profit, inventory
and cash generation”. That focus and commitment has
enabled the Group to achieve a return to shareholders well
above the average for our industry, to maintain its excellent
service and to grow its market share.
Our attention to these aspects of the business is key to our
success and we intend that it should always be so, irrespective
of the market conditions. Currently conditions remain
extremely competitive, although many of the semiconductor
industry manufacturers and forecasters are encouraged by
the strength of the market since the summer holiday season
and are talking of double digit growth globally, with customer
demand for calendar year 2004 being particularly strong in
the Asia-Pacific region.
The post-summer period has traditionally been strong due to
the increased demand for PC, mobile phone and consumer
products for the Christmas season. We still remain cautious
and will wait to see a sustained increase in our own order
booking rate before endorsing this optimism. However, the
lack of investment in new semiconductor manufacturing
capacity during the last three difficult years should mean that
a reasonable increase in demand anywhere in the world will
quickly use up available capacity. The global nature of the
industry means that this will drive increasing unit prices for
everyone, from which we should see a direct benefit in both
sales and returns.
Martin Kent
Chief Executive
25 November 2003
