 I have said before that the Abacus response to the tough
trading conditions in its industry has been consistent. The
primary task has been to maintain a robust financial model
which would continue to deliver profits and generate cash and
dividends for shareholders over a weak trading period. In our
operations it has been essential to provide excellent customer
service, supplier support, inventory management and logistics.
We have seen success in all these areas and as a result our
largest subsidiary, Abacus Polar, has continued to increase its
market share. Furthermore, the Group has benefited from its
diversified product offering, particularly so at Trident, the
display and related products specialist, which has continued
to grow.
Since the year end we have added to our holding of 9% in
ECC Distribution Limited and we now hold 60% of the share
capital, with an option to buy the balance in the future. This is
the UK holding company of ECC Elettronica SpA, a Milan
based electronic components distributor with a network of
regional offices in Italy. Sales in the year to 30 September
2003 were f40.4 million (£27.4 million).
Outlook
The industry is not yet showing signs of a sustained recovery.
There are however some positive indications that the
deterioration has been arrested. Since the year end, the level
of order intake has improved and exceeds sales. AFDEC, the
industry association, is predicting a modest upturn of 3% in
the UK in the calendar year 2004, against an expected
downturn in excess of 5% for the calendar year 2003. 
At present we do not anticipate that such a recovery will take
place early in the year, and accordingly we would not expect a
sharp upturn to be seen in our financial year to 30 September
2004. Our current view is that the outlook for the coming
twelve months will be broadly similar to that of the period
under review.
Everyone in Abacus has given great support over the past
twelve months and I thank them for their hard work.
Harry Westropp
Chairman
25 November 2003
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report that Abacus has shown great resilience during an exceedingly
difficult trading period. There has now been a period of two and a half years over
which prices have fallen in our industry and margins have been under constant
pressure. Despite these conditions the Abacus Group has achieved the market’s
expectations of a profit of £8 million, before goodwill of £0.4 million and tax of £2.4
million, on sales of £147 million. Whilst this represents a reduction in pre-goodwill
profitability of 15%, compared with the previous year, considerable investment has
been made in the infrastructure of the business, balance sheet strength has been
maintained and the dividend is being increased by 5%.
4 Abacus Group plc 
ECC’s headquarters in the
Cusago district of Milan,
Italy. ECC brings to the
Group a presence in the
Italian distribution market,
estimated to be f1.2 billion
in 2002.
