 Our production for the year was in line with that of
2006 and we have told investors that 2008 will also
be a relatively flat year in output terms but that
production is scheduled to step up in 2009 and
2010, reaching the targeted 600 000 ounces in
2011.
We can report full achievement or satisfactory progress
on each of these fronts in spite of some difficulties
we met along the way.
Another strong performance from Loulo almost made
up for a shortfall at Morila and brought us to within
a whisker of our forecast production.  The underground
development battled through some very poor ground
but then picked up speed and is now within reach
of the first ore.  We have assumed operational
responsibility for the joint venture at Morila.  We
advanced the Tongon project to a point where the
board has decided to proceed with the project’s
development.  With Tongon now clearly designated
as our third new mine, the recently discovered
Massawa in Senegal has moved to the front of the
advanced prospect line in a new country.
A number of items impacted on our financial results:
the lower-than-expected contribution from Morila; a
US$3.2 million tax adjustment there; the cost of
stepping up production at Loulo; and an increase of
US$7.1 million in exploration and corporate
expenditure, mainly related to Tongon.  Had it not
been for these factors, net profit would have exceeded
the previous year’s US$50.9 million.  As it was, the
profit was still a healthy US$45.6 million.
Given the circumstances, this was a good
performance and, considering the company’s
profitable outlook and generally robust financial
condition, the board decided to increase the dividend
by 20%.
MAKING THE MOST OF MORILA
Morila had a difficult year and its original forecast
of 500 000 ounces was reduced to 475 000 ounces
after a first half in which lower grades and recoveries
had impacted heavily on production.  Management
believed that a stronger second half would enable
it to meet the revised target but in the event
problems relating to planning, grade control and plant
For Randgold Resources the
past year was one of
building, with the Loulo
underground development
and the T ongon feasibility
study as the key priorities.
Also on management’s radar
were cost management, the
hunt for profitable new
growth opportunities and
the need to address the
situation at Morila.
Chief executive’s review
18
18   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007 lock-up persisted and production came in
at just under 450 000 ounces.
Since the year-end it has been announced
that AngloGold Ashanti is considering the
disposal of its 40% stake in the mine.
It was agreed that in these circumstances
it would be in the best interests of all
stakeholders if Randgold Resources took
over the operatorship of the mine, which we
have done with effect from 15 February
2008.
As a first step our due diligence team is
thoroughly evaluating all aspects of the
operation in conjunction with its management.
Once we have a complete understanding
of all the issues we shall be in a position to
formulate and implement a plan designed
to ensure that Morila optimises the remaining
resources for the rest of its life.  We shall
also continue to pursue the thus-far elusive
opportunity to extend the mineralisation at
Morila and the existing exploration dataset
and strategy will be reviewed as part of the
due diligence.
It is worth noting that despite the
disappointment of the past year, Morila
remains a substantial generator of cash and
profit, debt-free, unhedged and completely
exposed to the gold price.  As such it is still
a very important contributor to the coffers of
Randgold Resources and should be so for
several years to come.
LOULO CONTINUES TO STAR
Loulo also had its share of operational
challenges in the shape of feed and ore mix
problems caused by erratic contractor
performance and a roll crusher failure
exacerbated by excessive rains from July
into September.  The need to catch up on
lost output impacted significantly on Loulo’s
costs but thanks to another great effort from
the team, the mine ended the year with
production 10% ahead of forecast and year-
on-year profit from mining up by the same
margin.
The Yalea underground development at Loulo
ran into problems in the form of some very
poor ground which slowed the advance
down to a crawl from June.  By the end of
the year it was back in competent ground
and the pace accelerated briskly, achieving
a record advance of 260 metres in January.
It is now on a critical path to the development
ore, which we expect to intersect by the end
of the first quarter.  The first mining faces
should be established by mid-year.  The
Loulo team’s undaunted attitude and
innovative spirit are demonstrated by the
solution they came up with for the difficulties
they had encountered in establishing backfill
and ventilation access to the northern part
of the Yalea orebody.  This was originally
conceived as a raisebore shaft but with the
necessary equipment almost impossible to
obtain at present, it was redesigned as a
third decline from the P125 pit.  This not
only provides the required access but creates
additional points of entry to the mine as well
as assessing additional ore not included in
the original mining schedule.
TONGON STARTS TAKING SHAPE
The Tongon team has also been making
excellent progress and, subject to an
agreement on a mining convention with the
government of Côte d’Ivoire, we are initiating
site establishment this year with the aim of
starting construction in earnest at year-end
to be able to produce first gold in the second
half of 2010.
The first draft of the mining convention has
already been tabled for discussion.  We have
also initiated social and environmental impact
studies which have formed the basis for a
public consultative process with the local
villages and regional structures.  Most of the
mine-site layout has been settled and when
the next phase of detailed flowsheet and
process design has been completed, the
tendering process will start.
In the meantime, the political process in
Côte d’Ivoire also continues to make good
progress.  We are great believers in the
future of this country, which is not only highly
prospective but still relatively unexplored,
and also possesses that rarity in Africa:
a sophisticated economy supported by a
functional infrastructure.
Funding for the development of Tongon,
as well as for other organic and corporate
growth opportunities, has been secured
through a successful US$240 million equity
placing in November.  It is a tribute to the
company’s excellent investor relations, strong
shareholder communications and the inherent
attraction of Tongon and other growth
prospects that all our key shareholders
participated in the placing.  In addition,
although the transaction was executed in
just 24 hours, the company was able to
attract both new institutional shareholders
and a substantial retail response, all at a
discount of just 3% on the previous day’s
close.
THE NEXT BIG THING
Exploration continues to be the engine that
drives Randgold Resources’ growth and our
teams in the field have also had a busy year
which has produced some very gratifying
results in the way of projects graduating
to advanced drill status.  The further
expansion of our resource base is detailed
in the updated reserve and resource
declaration elsewhere in this report.
Outstanding features of the year are the
definition of a substantial mineralised structure
demonstrated by high grade diamond drillhole
and RAB results from Massawa in Senegal,
the extended mineralisation at the Loulo
satellite Faraba, the airborne geophysical
survey over our consolidated holdings in the
Loulo/Senegal region, the shift in exploration
focus in Côte d’Ivoire from Tongon to other
targets in the Nielle permit as well as our five
other permits in that country, including the
Tiasso target in the Boundiali permit.  Other
outstanding features were the potential for
adding resources at Kiaka in Burkina Faso
and finally the greenfields exploration in
Ghana and Tanzania which feeds the base
of our resource triangle.  Full details of these
and other prospects are given in the review
of operations.
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   19 Mark Bristow
Chief executive
Massawa, which we discovered last year,
along with Tiasso in Côte d’Ivoire, are rapidly
emerging as the frontrunners among the
advanced prospects.  Results from the
recently completed 2 500 metre infill RAB
drilling programme at Massawa are at least
as good as those produced by Yalea and
Tongon at a similar stage.  In fact, all the
ingredients which typically indicate a major
deposit are in place: high grades, structure,
alteration and variations in rock types.
We have always believed in the prospectivity
of the Kedougou-Kenieba inlier which hosts
Massawa and we persevered with our
exploration there even though the early results
were not that promising.  The fact that our
continuing work has now delivered a very
exciting target reconfirms that exploration
success requires not only skill but also
tenacity.  The next step is a +7 000 metre
diamond drilling programme which should
give us a very clear understanding of the
mineralisation.  A reconnaisance and
delineation drilling programme on the Tiasso
target in the Boundiali permit, 100 kilometres
west of Tongon, is also scheduled for the
second quarter of 2008.
LOOKING AHEAD TO 2008 AND BEYOND
Randgold Resources is facing the future with
a considerable measure of confidence based
on an impressive array of assets.  These
include:
a pure gold strategy and a record of
value creation that, judging by our share
price performance, strike a responsive
chord in the market;
the capacity to grow production from
organic sources in a high gold price
environment and at a time when industry
output is declining;
a robust balance sheet more than
capable of funding our growth projects
as well as possible corporate
transactions;
Loulo’s expansion into a four-mines-in-
one-complex and the potential for more
discoveries in the region;
Tongon headed for production in 2010
and a full pipeline of quality projects
behind that; and, by no means least,
a versatile, expert team, thoroughly
tested in every aspect of our business.
Our production profile illustrated on page 4
of this report shows how we plan to gear
up our output, with Loulo targeting a total
production in excess of 400 000 ounces in
2010 and group attributable production
reaching 600 000 ounces in 2011.
Clearly we’re going to have to work very hard
to contain the impact of costs, which we
estimate will rise by between 10% and 15%
in 2008, subject of course to the oil price.
Even so, we are soundly positioned to do
well under all realistically foreseeable
scenarios.  And our strategy remains
unchanged:  we continue to build our
business through discovery and
development, while also hunting those rare
external opportunities of real quality, with the
objective of creating long term value.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS AND
APPRECIATION
No review of the past year can be complete
without due recognition of the many people
who worked hard to advance the company’s
progress.  I would like to thank our board,
the many shareholders and investors who
made time to see me during the year, our
business partners in the various areas where
we operate, our stakeholders, notably the
governments and people of our host
countries, and our advisors.  A very special
word of thanks is reserved for the people of
Randgold Resources:  my colleagues in
management and all our employees, each
of whom has in one way or another
contributed to our success.
20   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007 Thinus Strydom
Mine manager, Loulo underground projects
After a 14-year career in gold and coal mining in
South Africa, Ethiopia and Fiji, Thinus joined
Randgold Resources in 2005 to head the
development of the Yalea and Gara projects at
Loulo - the company’s first underground mines
and the first of their kind in Mali.
“The Randgold team consists of highly skilled
individuals, each an expert in his or her specific
field.  Together they constitute a considerable
intellectual base within which each is able to
support the other:  for instance, though my
responsibility is the planning and development
of the underground operation, I was able to assist
the engineering department with technical advice
when they were commissioning the primary
crusher.”
Review of operations Review of operations Review of operations
