 6 The Rank Group Plc
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Mike Smith
Dividends per share p
2000 2001 2002
12.0p
12.6p
13.2p
This growth was achieved despite the impact of continued difﬁcult trading
conditions for Hard Rock. We also absorbed considerable pre-opening 
and launch costs associated with the opening of new facilities across
the Group, all of which will contribute to driving future growth.
Just as importantly, whilst continuing to improve earnings, we 
have continued our development activities within existing markets 
as well as extending our operations into new but related markets,
thereby enhancing prospects for the longer term.
Gaming
The Gaming division continued its now well-established trend 
of double digit profit improvement with a further gain of 13% 
in the year (excluding Rank Interactive Gaming). Grosvenor Casinos
enjoyed strong turnover and proﬁt growth despite the absorption 
of launch costs for the two Hard Rock casinos and the relocation 
of the casino in Brighton. In Mecca Bingo, we deliberately cut back
advertising and promotional expenditure in the second half so that,
overall, turnover growth was modest but trading margin was strong,
supported by the continued success of cashline bingo.
Rank Interactive Gaming, whilst loss-making in its first full year of
operation, launched hardrockcasino.com in July and bore the costs 
of considerable new product development.The annualised running
rate of stakes placed at year-end was £90m, which represented a high
rate of growth over the period.The integration of the recently acquired
Blue Square betting business will add further opportunities for growth
this year.
Hard Rock
As we had expected, Hard Rock had a difficult year. Whilst like for 
like food and beverage sales were a little ahead of 2001, merchandise
sales continued to suffer from a lack of tourist traffic. This severely
reduced proﬁts in the major cafe locations, particularly those located 
in tourist destinations.We also absorbed pre-opening costs associated
with new cafe openings, mainly in non-tourist locations. Trading
performance during the ﬁnal quarter of 2002 was more encouraging,
albeit against relatively weak comparative ﬁgures for 2001.
We have regularly reviewed our overheads and operating costs 
in Hard Rock. Given the continued uncertain trading environment,
we plan to take further action to reduce costs in the first half 
of 2003.
Deluxe
Deluxe had an exceptionally good year. Film processing was outstanding
with an 8% growth in turnover and 16% growth in profit before
exceptional items. The strong performance in 2002 was assisted by 
the full year impact of the new laboratory in Rome and efficiencies
from the relocated Toronto laboratory. Media Services also had a good
year overall and in particular benefited from the DVD venture with
Ritek, established in August 2002.
Developments
In Mecca Bingo, the relocation of the Croydon club was completed 
in November 2002 and there are plans for a further two relocations in
2003. A new club will also be opened during 2003 in West Bromwich.
In Spain, we acquired three new clubs during 2002 and continue to
look for further opportunities in this large and fragmented market.
Within Grosvenor Casinos, over the last few years we have relocated 
a total of seven casinos and plans are in place for a further three
relocations in 2003. Grosvenor’s performance in 2002 is a clear
demonstration that improving the quality of our facilities, combined
with gradual deregulation, is a potent mixture for growth.The two 
new Hard Rock casinos in the UK offer a greater entertainment 
2002 WAS ANOTHER GOOD YEAR FOR THE RANK 
GROUP . OUR ALL ROUND STRENGTH AND SPREAD 
OF ACTIVITIES ENABLED US TO CONTINUE TO MOVE 
PROFITS FORWARD AND INCREASE EARNINGS 
PER SHARE, BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS, BY 21% 
(65% AFTER EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS)
