 10 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Strategic report
CHief Executive’s Q&A
meet our new 
chief executive
 What made you want to join Rank?
Rank is a company with a fantastic 
reputation and legacy, but I was drawn 
more to the potential of where it can go 
in the future than to its past. Like most 
people in the UK I had grown up knowing 
the Rank brand and its stable of products 
and entertainment history, but more 
recently working in the gaming industry, 
I knew it as a group with great brands 
and an enviable position in venue-based 
bingo and casino gaming. Coming from 
William Hill, where I helped transform a 
company with a retail focus and culture 
into one which straddled the high street 
and the internet, I could see some 
parallels with Rank and that made me 
feel I could make a difference. Compared 
with other gaming companies Rank has  
a much more entertainment-led offer, 
engagement between staff and customers 
is closer and we have a greater awareness 
of who our customers are and what they 
enjoy. Additionally it was apparent to me 
that Rank is very aware of its duty to 
operate responsibly and therefore has 
engaged with Government and other 
interested parties on this issue. These 
elements are important differentiators for 
Rank and ones that I feel that we can 
harness further to grow the Group. 
What have been your ﬁrst impressions 
after three months with the Group?
It may sound like a cliché but I have 
been extremely impressed with the 
people throughout the business – they 
truly are our greatest assets. There is  
a huge amount of passion and loyalty  
to the brands our employees work for  
– Mecca, Grosvenor Casinos and Enracha 
– and their knowledge of our business 
and engagement with customers is better 
than I have seen in any other group. 
Ultimately we are in the business of 
providing entertainment to our customers 
and that begins and ends with the 
service and customer experience our staff 
provide. Through visiting our venues and 
meeting with team members I have come 
to realise what a strength our people are.
I have also been struck by the amount  
of potential and opportunity that Rank 
has. We have really powerful assets at  
rank is a company 
with a fantastic 
reputation  
and legacy. 
Q
A
&
Henry Birch, Chief Executive The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 11
our disposal: nearly 11,000 engaged and 
passionate staff, more than 160 venues, 
over three million customers and market 
leading positions in casino and bingo. 
When you join a group as a new chief 
executive you want to be excited about 
where the Group can go – about its 
potential – and in this regard I am 
extremely positive.
As with any company, Rank needs to 
change and evolve. What has been 
encouraging in my ﬁrst few months here 
– and perhaps unexpected – is that there 
is real appetite and agitation for change 
including from those who have been 
here the longest. There is no shortage  
of ideas or energy in the Group, it is just 
a question of ensuring that we have the 
right focus and the right tools to harness 
them. A willingness and desire to change 
from within is a great base from which  
to start.
Will there be a big focus on digital  
in the future?
My background is predominantly digital, 
so there has been an assumption that 
this will be my focus at Rank. In my view 
we are underpowered in digital, with just 
10% of our total revenues coming from 
our digital business (versus 30% for the 
wider gambling industry), and there  
is an opportunity for us to grow here.  
But I am also clear that we remain a 
venues-led business and there are many 
parts of our customer offer that can’t be 
 “I have been extremely 
impressed with the 
people throughout the 
business – they truly  
are our greatest assets”
‘digitised’ and nor would our customers 
want us to try. Our opportunity is to 
create a strong multi-channel offer for 
our customers, such that we give them  
a fantastic product and experience 
however they choose to engage with  
us – in one of our venues, from a home 
computer or with a mobile device. Having 
a strong digital business is a key part of 
having a multi-channel offer. So yes, 
digital will be a big focus, but not at the 
expense of other parts of our business.
I do however believe that technology 
generally will play an increasingly 
important part across our business, not 
just in the digital arena. If you look at 
the offer in our clubs, it hasn’t changed 
substantially in many years. Yes, some of 
our slots may be server-based and some 
of our bingo customers may be using our 
Mecca Max units, but fundamentally not 
a lot has changed in the way in which 
we deliver entertainment in our venues. 
However, this is not the case in other 
sectors, for instance in retail or banking, 
where technological innovation is 
increasingly changing the way people 
use products and services. I expect our 
venues will also evolve in this way. How 
and when technology plays a bigger part 
will be dependent on us and on our 
customers, but it will happen. It may be 
the implementation of a more cashless 
environment or the use of customer-
owned mobile devices in venues to 
participate in gaming or to replace 
membership cards, but technology will 
start to positively impact our business. 
Harnessing technology can not only 
make us more efﬁcient, but crucially  
it can be used to provide an improved 
customer experience and give us a 
competitive advantage. 
What are your immediate priorities?
Setting the right strategic focus for the 
Group is a key priority. This involves 
discipline in ensuring that non-core 
issues get put to one side and it involves 
plenty of communication. I am keen that 
everyone in the business knows where 
we are heading and what we are trying  
to achieve. There is no point in having 
priorities and a strategy if people aren’t 
aware of them. Additionally we need to 
have clear milestones associated with our 
strategic focus. Setting the strategy is the 
easy bit, the execution of the strategy  
is what counts. 
I am also focused on building the right 
team at Rank: a team that works well 
together, challenges each other and 
complements each other. Fortunately  
I have inherited a strong management 
team at Rank, but inevitably there will  
be some change.
I am looking forward to spending more 
time in our clubs talking to our staff  
and customers, ﬁnding out how we can 
improve our business and run it better. 
What is your vision for the Group? 
Ultimately, my vision is that Rank will  
be the UK’s leading multi-channel 
gaming company. This means creating  
a compelling multi-channel offer so  
that however our customers choose to 
interact with us – in venue, at home or 
on the move – we can provide them with 
the best possible product, service and 
entertainment experience. If we can do 
this, we will build a growing, robust and 
more valuable business. 
Henry Birch, Chief Executive
13 August 2014
For more information see pages: 
16 Our strategy
28 Operating review 12 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Strategic report
12 12 T Th Th The Ra Ra ank nk k k k G Gro o ou up up Plc Plc c:A : A Annu nnual al Report and F Fin inanci cial a Sta tate tement nts 2 2 s s 0 01 01 14 4 4
St Str ra ate teg gi ic c g g c r r re re epor por por ort t t t t
OCT ‘13
Live casino launched
Grosvenorcasinos.com’s live casino was successfully launched. 
During the year live casino became one of the brand’s fastest 
growing digital revenue streams. The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 13 e e Ra Ra an nk nk nk Gro Gro G up up Plc Plc Pl l : A A A A :Annu nnu nu n n u nua al a al l Rep R R Rep Rep port ort ort rt ort ort ort ort r a an an an an nd F d Fina ina n nci nci i nci cial al l a Sta Sta Sta a a atem tem t t m ment ent ent en nts 2 s 2 s 2 s2014 014 01 01 014 4 4 1 13 13 13 3 13 1 T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T e The The The he h he he h h h he he The Th The he he he e The T The he he he he h he he h h h h he e The h he he h he e h he he he he e e he e e e e e e h h he The The he he T e e he Th The he The Th h h h h Th Th h h Th h h h
London poker room opens
Following capital investment of £11.6m the London Poker 
Room was opened, which incorporates a 350 capacity poker 
room, bar and restaurant.
Nov ‘13
