 Chairman‘s statement
Following a number of years of restructuring, 
Rank is now a focused gaming group. The sale of
Hard Rock for $965m (£502m) and the associated
return to shareholders of £353m were the ﬁnal
stages in this process. The Group’s management
has concentrated on the operation of its gaming
businesses at a time when they have faced a
number of difﬁcult external conditions.
Three major changes affected the performance 
of the Group in the year: a substantial increase in
casino gaming duty, announced in the Government’s
Budget in March 2007; the introductions of bans on
smoking in enclosed public spaces in Wales (April)
and England (July); and the prohibition of Section 21
gaming terminals upon the full implementation 
of the Gambling Act 2005 (the ‘Gambling Act’) 
in September.
This succession of events created a difﬁcult trading
environment during the second half of 2007 for our
UK retail businesses, Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor
Casinos and contributed to a decline in Group proﬁts.
The Board and senior management of Rank
anticipated that the combination of these changes
would have a negative effect on Group proﬁts, but
under estimated the scale of the decline. The Group
is now focused on the actions necessary to stabilise
performance in the short-term, whilst considering
the medium-term and long-term actions necessary
to regenerate growth. 
In December 2007, we announced our decisions to
scale back capital expenditure, to tighten further our
cost control measures and to cancel payment of the
ﬁnal dividend for 2007. It is the Board’s intention to
reinstate dividend payments once we have seen a
sustained improvement in trading.
Having taken action to stabilise proﬁts, our priority 
is now to generate improvements in revenue,
principally through increased customer visits to 
our retail and interactive businesses.
As we look to raise our game commercially, we
recognise the need to maintain our high standards 
of responsible operation. The values of responsibility
and fairness that underpin the Gambling Act also sit
at the heart of our business. By setting an example
for the rest of the industry to follow, we can help to
shape a better understood and more fairly regulated
environment for our businesses to operate in.
Peter Johnson
Chairman
For more information please visit 
www .rank.com
Having taken action to stabilise proﬁts, our priority is now to
generate improvements in revenue, principally through increased
customer visits to our retail and interactive businesses.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 3
$965m sale of Hard 
Rock completed
£353m returned 
to shareholders via 
special dividend
Gambling Act 2005
implemented
Smoking ban introduced 
in England and Wales
Substantial increase in rate 
of casino gaming duty
Key events in 2007
