 8 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Strategic report
Dear shareholder
As outlined in our interim statement,  
the Group had a challenging H1 where  
a weaker performance from our London 
casinos and the highly competitive 
market adversely affected our ﬁnancial 
performance compared to the prior 
period. As a direct result, we undertook 
three actions in H2 aimed at delivering 
improved performance: 1) improving  
the value for money for our customers, 
2) tightening of our cost controls and  
3) a more focused capital expenditure 
programme. We are pleased to report 
that the 21% increase in H2 operating 
proﬁt versus H1 highlights the success  
of these actions.
Last year the following priorities were 
outlined for the Group. Here we provide 
an update on our progress made in  
each area.
1. Integration of acquired casinos
This year we worked hard to successfully 
integrate the former Gala casino venues 
which were acquired back in May 2013. 
With £17.8m of capital invested in the 
year, we have made signiﬁcant 
improvements to the estate while also 
implementing operational improvements. 
The 19 venues are on track to deliver the 
anticipated level of returns and, along 
with our existing estate, before central 
costs, represent 60% of the Group’s 
operating proﬁt for the year.
2. Growth in digital
The Group continued its focus  
on growing the digital channels.  
www.grosvenorcasinos.com  
continues to grow strongly and  
now offers its bespoke live casino 
product. Our growing live casino is  
now a major revenue contributor to  
our digital casino channel. 
Chairman’s statement
Creating shared 
experiences
Rank is in a strong 
ﬁnancial position, 
possesses market-
leading brands and 
has a clear strategy 
for long-term 
growth.
3. Retail channel improvements
During the year particular focus was placed 
on improving the performance of our 
Mecca venues. Further detail is provided 
in Mecca’s venues performance review.
There still continues to be some 
underperformance in the Group, which 
has resulted in the Group having to 
recognise £12.9m of impairment charges 
at 30 June 2014 in respect of certain 
venues in the UK and Spain.
Board changes
John Warren
On 17 October 2013, John Warren 
stepped down from the board after 
serving more than seven and a half  
years as non-executive director and 
chairman of the audit committee.
Colin Child
On 18 March 2014, Colin Child, Rank’s 
senior independent director, resigned 
from the board. Colin joined the board 
on 1 January 2012 and was Rank’s senior 
independent director, chairman of the 
nominations committee and chairman  
of the audit committee. Following Colin’s 
departure, I was appointed chairman of 
the nominations committee and Owen 
O’Donnell chairman of the audit 
committee. I am currently leading  
the search for a new senior independent 
director. An update will be provided as 
and when appropriate. 
Ian Burke
After eight years as chief executive of  
the Group I decided it was the right  
time to step away from the role. On  
27 March 2014, the Group announced 
the appointment of Henry Birch as 
Rank’s new chief executive and Henry’s 
appointment took effect from 6 May 2014. 
My time as chief executive has been 
challenging and rewarding, and I wish 
Henry all the very best in his new role.
Ian Burke, Chairman The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 9
On 6 May 2014, I became non-executive 
chairman and have been working 
alongside Henry to ensure a smooth 
transition of executive responsibilities. 
Dividend
The board is pleased to recommend a 
ﬁnal dividend of 3.15 pence per share be 
paid on 22 October 2014 to shareholders 
on the register at 12 September 2014.
Regulatory reform
1
Rank has been lobbying for regulatory 
modernisation within gaming for a 
number of years. Following the successful 
campaign to cut bingo duty, Rank’s 
current objectives reﬂect restrictions  
on our ability to meet customer  
demand for casino gaming and are:
• An increased provision of slot 
machines in casinos (Great Britain’s 
casinos currently have less than 2%  
of the machines in Great Britain); and
• The right for local authorities to elect 
whether to license casinos (the majority 
of local authorities in Great Britain do 
not currently enjoy this right).
While achievement of these objectives 
remains uncertain, progress was  
made in 2013/14 with increases in 
maximum stakes (from £2 to £5)  
and prizes (maximum of £10,000) for 
Category B1 slot machines in casinos  
and an increase in the maximum prize 
(from £70 to £100) for Category C slot 
machines in the Group’s bingo venues. 
Taxation
The 2014 Budget statement contained 
two major changes to the taxation of the 
Group’s activities:
• A reduction in bingo duty from 20%  
to 10% to take effect from 30 June 
2014; and
• The application of remote gaming  
duty (‘RGD’), at 15%, to all online 
gaming involving consumer 
transactions in the UK (regardless  
of where the operator is based) to take 
effect from 1 December 2014. 
As a consequence of the reduction  
in bingo duty Rank has committed to  
the construction of three new bingo 
venues, the re-starting of its venues 
refurbishment programme and providing 
better value for customers in terms of 
game prices and prize funds.
Rank has been working hard on assessing 
the full impact of RGD and developing 
ways to reduce any negative impact on 
shareholder value, for example through 
the renegotiation of key digital contracts 
and reviewing the effectiveness of digital 
marketing campaigns. The Group 
anticipates the majority of the duty  
cost will impact digital proﬁtability. 
Listing Rules
On 16 May 2014, new Listing Rules  
came into force for all premium listed 
companies. The Financial Conduct 
Authority (“FCA”) conﬁrmed that the 
For more information see pages: 
48 Board of directors
51 Corporate governance
minimum free ﬂoat requirement remains 
at 25%, however they stated that they 
will take into account certain factors 
when making any decision to modify  
the 25% requirement. Rank has therefore 
made a formal submission to the FCA 
requesting it to modify LR 6.1.19 R so 
that Rank can continue to be a premium 
listed company with a slightly lower free 
ﬂoat percentage than 25%. 
Current trading and outlook
Since the beginning of July performance 
has been in line with management’s 
expectations and ahead of last year. 
While such a short trading period can  
be distorted by external factors, we are 
pleased with the underlying trends.
Rank remains in a strong ﬁnancial 
position, possesses market-leading  
brands and has a clear strategy for  
long-term growth.
Ian Burke, Chairman
13 August 2014
1 Total advisory service fees for engaging with Government, Parliament and the media in the period were £0.1m (2012/13: £0.1m).
