 Summary of results – continuing operations
The Group delivered growth in operating proﬁt for
the ﬁrst six months of the year but the second half
proved more difﬁcult as our bingo clubs and casinos
absorbed the negative effects of new legislation,
higher taxation and a deteriorating economic
environment for consumers.
Revenue from continuing operations of £534.4m 
was 2.8% lower than in 2006, while Group
operating proﬁt of £68.3m was down 6.7%. Like for
like clubs revenue (which excludes new openings,
closures and relocations of bingo clubs and casinos)
was 0.5% ahead of our performance in 2006.
The decline in operating proﬁt was due in part 
to £6.9m of additional lease costs (relating to the
2006 sale and leaseback transaction) and £4.6m 
of incremental casino gaming duty (arising from
taxation changes announced in the Budget 2007).
We achieved a net cost reduction of £18.0m in
Group central costs and shared services, although
this related in part to £8.9m of one-off costs incurred
in 2006. Excluding the effects of these one-off costs,
the duty increases and higher lease costs, Group
operating proﬁt was 2.8% lower than in 2006.
Blue Square delivered the strongest performance in
the Group, achieving signiﬁcant growth in revenue
and operating proﬁt, while revenue and operating
proﬁt in Top Rank España recovered in part from the
effects of the partial smoking ban introduced in 2006.
Our two largest businesses, Mecca Bingo and
Grosvenor Casinos both generated lower revenue
and operating proﬁt than in 2006. The lower 
proﬁt performance was due in part to higher lease
costs and (in the case of Grosvenor Casinos) the
increased rates of casino gaming duty introduced 
in April 2007. During the ﬁnal four months of the
year, revenue in both businesses fell, as the 
negative effects of the smoking ban and the loss 
of Section 21 gaming terminals (required by the
Gambling Act) were compounded by a 
deterioration in consumer conﬁdence.
In 2007, the Group has incurred £45.2m of
exceptional losses chieﬂy related to the impairment
of assets and creation of onerous lease provisions in
Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos. Full details are
provided in the ﬁnance review.
Chief executive’s review
After making a strong start to our ﬁrst year as a focused gaming business, 
we experienced a signiﬁcant deterioration in trading conditions in the second
half for our UK retail businesses, Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos.
Stabilise Group performance
Increase customer visits
Campaign for fair taxation
Revenue (£m) Operating proﬁt (£m)*
2007 2006 2007 2006
(restated)
Mecca Bingo 240.5 261.7 43.6 63.6
Top Rank España 32.3 31.1 9.3 8.9
Grosvenor Casinos 209.5 217.6 29.9 36.3
Blue Square 52.1 39.2 10.9 7.8
Shared services (18.5) (26.0)
Central costs (6.9) (17.4)
Continuing operations 534.4 549.6 68.3 73.2
4 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements
* before exceptional items
The Group has restated its ﬁnancial results for 2006 to reﬂect changes in accounting policy relating to exceptional items and the net
return on the deﬁned beneﬁt asset. A restatement of Group full year proﬁts for 2006 is contained in note 39 to the ﬁnancial statements.
In addition, a number of key performance indicators have been restated on a like for like rather than absolute basis. This more
accurately reﬂects the underlying performances of the Group’s businesses.
2008 priorities
Directors’ Report: Business Review During 2007 we created
external bingo enclosures at
30 of our Mecca Bingo clubs.
This innovation proved
popular with customers and
helped to protect revenues in
the second half of the year.
For more information please visit 
www .rank.com
We remain committed to our vision of creating 
the UK’s leading gaming group, with a long-term
strategy to generate shareholder value through the
development of gaming-based leisure businesses. 
We continue to develop a range of differentiated
betting and gaming products, geared to different
segments of the adult population and distributed
through a variety of retail and interactive channels. 
Our focus is on increasing the number of visits to our
businesses by rewarding our most loyal customers,
reaching out to engage with new customers and
delivering a consistently high level of service and
product to all of our customers.
Our immediate aim in 2008 is to stabilise the Group
performance in what is expected to be a difﬁcult 
year for the leisure sector, balancing near-term
ﬁnancial requirements with the long-term growth
opportunities for our businesses. Consequently, 
we have reviewed our capital spending plans and 
reﬁned a number of the expansion and portfolio
enhancement targets that we set at the time of 
our interim results in August 2007.
Adapt businesses to protect revenue
During 2007 we introduced a number of innovations
designed speciﬁcally to address the challenge of the
smoking ban. Our principal aim was to adapt our
bingo clubs and casinos to preserve enjoyment for
smoking as well as non-smoking customers.
In the year we completed the ﬁrst phase of 
this programme, erecting sheltered areas at the 
majority of our Mecca Bingo clubs and Grosvenor
Casinos. We introduced a total of 720 interval 
bingo playing positions into the shelters at 30 
of our Mecca Bingo clubs, having obtained the
necessary local licensing and planning approvals.
These shelters proved popular with customers,
generating incremental revenue for the clubs 
and supporting club prizeboards.
The second phase of this programme to expand 
and improve the sheltered enclosures at selected
clubs is currently underway. In Mecca Bingo we are
now operating interval bingo in 39 of our outside
enclosures and we have obtained gaming licensing
approval to extend this to a further two clubs. We
plan to have developed outside gaming at 50 of 
our clubs by the end of the current year.
Tighten cost controls to deliver savings
We have targeted a further £15m of cost reductions
across the Group during 2008. This is based upon 
a series of margin protection measures identiﬁed
during the ﬁnal quarter of 2007, which included: 
Strategic priorities
Stabilise Group performance
reduction of marketing and promotional 
expenditure in Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor 
Casinos; a deferral of annual pay reviews; greater
purchasing and operating efﬁciencies; and a small
number of redundancies.
This package of cost savings is in addition to 
the signiﬁcant cost savings delivered in 2007.
Selective capital investment
Given the changes affecting our businesses and 
the current economic volatility, we have decided 
to prioritise capital spending and to defer a number
of major capital projects. Among these projects 
are plans to refurbish a number of our Grosvenor 
Casinos and rebrand them under the G Casino
name. We will keep all expenditure under review 
and plan to commence development projects as 
the trading environment improves.
The development of the G Casinos in Aberdeen 
and Dundee are not affected by our revision of
capital expenditure and are scheduled to open in
2008 and 2009 respectively. Our new G Casino 
at Thanet in Kent opened in February 2008. 
Improve product offer and customer service
Our portfolio of businesses allows us to target
different segments of the UK adult population 
with a range of gaming and non-gaming products,
including bingo, casino games, gaming machines,
poker, sports betting and food and drink. Our 
ability to innovate (subject to any regulatory
restrictions) is an important part of our strategy 
to attract and retain customers.
Gaming products
During 2007 we extended the roll-out of electronic
bingo to 99 of our Mecca Bingo clubs, principally
through the use of hand-held terminals. This
involved the testing and trial of ﬁve different models
of hand-held units, sourced from suppliers in the UK
and in North America. By the end of the year we had
more than 5,000 hand-held and desktop units across
these clubs. In addition, we currently have 178
electronic bingo positions across our 11 Top Rank
España bingo clubs in Spain.
The most immediate beneﬁt of electronic bingo 
is that it allows customers to play a higher number 
of bingo tickets per game. During 2008, we will
continue to develop electronic bingo and are at
present testing an enhanced product that allows 
for richer games content and greater interactivity. 
In late 2006 we introduced video bingo into two of
our Top Rank España clubs. Following the success of
this trial we adapted the product and launched it in
the UK at ﬁve of our Mecca Bingo clubs in January
2008. Video bingo terminals allow customers across
our clubs portfolio to play individual automated
games of bingo against each other. 
Sustainable growth 
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 5 In January 2008 non-league
Havant and Waterlooville FC,
who play in the Blue Square
South, reached the fourth
round of the FA Cup.
Following a review of our gaming machines estate
we are making a range of improvements, both 
in Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos. During 
the second half of 2007 we initiated a trial of
server-based gaming machines in three of our 
Mecca Bingo clubs and in 2008 we will replace a
signiﬁcant number of machines, to deliver a more
efﬁcient mix of products.
Under the Gambling Act 2005 it has become 
simpler to test new casino games and we have
introduced a number of new games and side-bets
into our casinos. We will continue to explore
opportunities to adopt successful casino games 
from other gaming jurisdictions.
In Blue Square we are extending our sports betting
coverage to incorporate a range of international
sports, as part of the overseas development of 
the business. 
Non-gaming products
We recognise that our food and beverage offers in
Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos have not kept
pace with developments in the eating-out market
and that we need to improve our menus, our service
skills and our systems. 
In 2007 we tested a number of new catering
concepts in Mecca Bingo, with a focus on quality,
value and convenience and we are appointing
dedicated food and beverage managers in a number
of our larger casinos and bingo clubs. To support this
we will complete the installation of a new electronic
point of sale system in Grosvenor Casinos during the
ﬁrst half of 2008. A similar project for Mecca Bingo
will be underway shortly. 
Reward loyal customers and engage 
with new customers
Reward loyal customers
In 2008 we will launch a new customer rewards
programme for customers of Grosvenor and 
G Casinos, deploying the world-leading Bally 
system in a number of our casinos on a trial basis.
This will enable us to provide additional beneﬁts 
to our most loyal customers and will help us to 
gain a greater understanding of customer
preferences and playing patterns.
We are currently exploring loyalty programmes 
for Mecca Bingo and for Blue Square’s interactive
gaming and betting products and aim to introduce
schemes for each business in the current year. 
Engage with new customers
Across the Group we have stepped up our efforts 
to grow our customer base through a targeted
approach to new member marketing.
In Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos we are 
using offer-based direct marketing, member referral
schemes and new member sales managers to 
attract new and lapsed customers.
During the ﬁnal quarter of 2007 Grosvenor 
Casinos launched its ﬁrst press and radio consumer
advertising campaign (as a result of the Gambling
Act’s relaxation of advertising restrictions for gaming
companies), providing local sales and marketing
support for 18 of our casinos. While we do not
anticipate material expenditure on casino advertising
in 2008, the potential to create greater consumer
awareness and understanding of our casinos is
expected to be signiﬁcant in the long term.
During 2007, Blue Square stepped up its marketing
programme with a series of sponsorships, designed
to raise awareness of the brand in its key markets.
The ﬂagship events were:
– Horse racing – Blue Square Nassau
Stakes/Stewards Cup (televised on BBC1)
– Greyhound racing – Blue Square Greyhound
Derby (televised on SKY Sports)
– Non-league football – Blue Square Premier, Blue
Square North and Blue Square South (televised 
on Setanta Sports)
– Darts – Blue Square UK Darts Open (televised 
on SKY Sports)
– Poker – Blue Square Grosvenor UK Poker Tour
(televised on Channel 4)
These ﬁve sponsorships achieved widespread
coverage for Blue Square on terrestrial and digital
television in 2007 (which included only half a season
of the Blue Square Premier). 
Extend reach through development of retail 
and interactive distribution channels
Mecca Bingo
Although the sector is experiencing a period of
volatility, bingo remains a highly popular leisure
pursuit in the UK. In the long term we aim to grow
the number of bingo players in the UK, through 
club and interactive development. In recent years
however, we have had to shrink our clubs portfolio 
in the face of high taxation, changes in customer
preferences, adverse changes to gaming regulations
and the effects of the smoking ban. 
During 2007 we closed 11 bingo clubs (ten in 
the ﬁrst half; one in the second half), which we
considered particularly vulnerable in the light of the
smoking ban. Typically these clubs, of which eight
were owned on a freehold basis, presented limited
scope for modernisation or adaptation and a small
number offered greater value under alternative use. 
At 31 December 2007, we had completed the
disposal of six of the freehold properties for an
aggregate consideration of £23.2m (reporting a
£17.2m proﬁt on disposal net of associated closure
costs). At present we have no plans for further club
closures, although we will continue to keep our
portfolio under review.
In February 2008 we opened a new Mecca Bingo
club at Thanet in Kent, taking our total number of
clubs to 103. 
Chief executive’s review continued
6 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements
Directors’ Report: Business Review In September 2007 we
rebranded the Hard Rock
Casino in London’s Leicester
Square, which became our
fourth G Casino.
For more information please visit 
www .rank.com
Although we have identiﬁed a number of additional
locations where we intend to open new clubs, 
we have decided to suspend further new club
development until we have greater visibility over
trading conditions.
In addition, we have examined opportunities to
maximise the returns on our assets through the
development of adult gaming centres within 
those properties where we have excess space. 
We opened our ﬁrst adult gaming centre in Ashford
in January 2008. 
Top Rank España
We continue to monitor the development of the
gambling market in Spain to assess opportunities 
for our Spanish bingo clubs business. 
Grosvenor Casinos
Our strategy to grow our active customer base is
supported by a programme of casino development.
In 2007, our G Casinos concept (launched in
Manchester in 2006) was extended to Luton 
(licence relocation), Blackpool and London’s Leicester
Square (re-branding the Grosvenor and Hard Rock
Casinos respectively). 
G Casinos are aimed at the mainstream leisure
market and typically occupy large sites in high-proﬁle
and easily accessible locations. As well as featuring
spacious and modern gaming areas, a signiﬁcant
proportion of the G Casino is set aside for soft
gaming (pari-mutuel such as poker) or non-gaming
activities through the provision of live entertainment,
sports and media lounges, bars and restaurants.
With the opening of G Casinos in Thanet and
Aberdeen during 2008, the brand will have been
extended to six locations by the end of the year.
In December 2007 we closed our loss-making
Grosvenor Casino in Liverpool, although in time 
we expect to relocate the licence to an improved 
site in the city.
At present we operate 32 casinos in Great Britain 
and we hold licences to operate casinos in a further
13 locations. This includes the two new licences 
that were granted under the 1968 Gaming Act 
(the ‘1968 Act’) to Grosvenor Casinos in 2007, 
at Southend-on-Sea and at Edinburgh. Our non-
operating 1968 Act casino licences present signiﬁcant
scope for the business to widen its distribution.
We expect to have opened ﬁve new casinos
(including G Casino Aberdeen) by 2012. In addition,
we will seek to relocate a number of licences and
invest selectively in the modernisation and extension
of existing casinos. The slightly slower pace of
development than indicated previously reﬂects 
this year’s revised capital spending plans and is
representative of a more general slowing in new
supply across the market. 
Since April 2006, there has been a moratorium in
effect on the submission of applications for new
casino licences under the 1968 Act. Although a
number of applications submitted prior to April 2006
are still to be determined, the success rate is low
(nine out of 30 applications were granted in 2007,
only four of which were in markets where Grosvenor
operates) and we have started to see a number of
casino closures. As a consequence, we anticipate 
that by 2012 there will be fewer than 160 casinos
operating in Great Britain under the 1968 Act.
The Government has announced its intention to
proceed with the development of 16 new generation
casinos, provided for within the Gambling Act. We
remain interested in a small number of the licences
and believe that our track record of responsible and
innovative operation of casinos in Britain is a strong
asset. However, at present it is not clear whether the
Order to approve the locations of these licences will
be approved by Parliament, how the bidding process
will work and precisely what operating conditions
will apply to the new casinos.
Blue Square
During 2007, Blue Square continued to extend its
customer reach, through agreements with Virgin
Media (to offer Blue Square sports betting and 
bingo to Virgin’s broadband internet customers) 
and Probability Games (to provide mobile phone
versions of popular casino games). 
During the ﬁrst half of 2008 we will launch
bingouniversal.com, an on-line bingo and gaming
website for the Spanish market and we will begin
offering multi-lingual, multi-currency sports betting
services to customers of 888.com, under a ‘white
label’ agreement.
During 2007 we stepped up our campaign for 
a level playing ﬁeld across the gambling industry
through the application of fair and consistent tax 
and regulatory policies.
The focus of our efforts was the pursuit of a change
in taxation for bingo which, unlike any other form 
of gambling in the UK, is subject to both 17.5% 
value added tax (VAT) and 15% gross proﬁts tax
(GPT). It is disappointing that, in spite of repeated
questions from Members of Parliament and the
Bingo Association, the Government has yet to
provide a satisfactory explanation for its continued
discrimination against bingo.
The Government’s decision to increase casino
gaming duty in the Budget 2007 cost Grosvenor
Casinos an additional £4.6m in gaming duty. 
The change, which was introduced without prior
notiﬁcation or consultation with the casinos industry,
resulted in a 22.6% increase in casino gaming duty,
although some of our smaller casinos experienced
duty rises of as much as 500%. 
HM Treasury has stated that it is reviewing the
taxation treatment of player-to-player poker played
in casinos. The effect of applying GPT to poker fees 
Gambling taxation
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 7 Chief executive’s review continued
(in addition to VAT) would not be material in terms
of Group proﬁts but would nevertheless discourage
investment in poker rooms, which represent a softer
gaming aspect to casino operations. We would
consider such a move to be contradictory to the
stated aims of the Government’s gambling policy.
On 28 February 2008 we announced that we had
entered into a series of agreements with the T rustee 
of the Rank Pension Plan and Rothesay Life (a wholly
owned subsidiary of Goldman Sachs), to transfer the
assets and liabilities of the pension plan to Rothesay Life.
The transfer will secure the accrued beneﬁts for the
members of the pension plan and will remove the
remaining ﬁnancial risks and liabilities in relation to
the pension plan from Rank. As a result of the
transfer, Rank will no longer be required to make
remaining scheduled contributions totalling £30.8m,
which the Group agreed with the pension trustee 
at the time of the sale of Deluxe Film in 2006.
Upon completion of the transfer Rank expects 
to receive a cash payment of at least £20m,
representing the Group's allocation of the expected
surplus within the pension plan after an appropriate
sharing with the plan's members and any anticipated
costs, including tax, associated with the transfer.
The transfer is subject to clearance from HM Revenue
and Customs regarding the tax treatment of the
transfer. Rank expects this clearance to be obtained
by May 2008, with completion of the transfer
expected in June 2008.
Payment of special dividend
On 5 March 2007, we completed the $965m
(£502m) disposal of Hard Rock to Seminole Hard
Rock Entertainment Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary
of the Seminole Tribe of Florida. As a consequence
we were able to return £353m to shareholders via 
a 65.0p per share special dividend, which was paid
on 9 April 2007. The special dividend payment was
accompanied by an 18 for 25 share consolidation.
On 12 October 2007, the Group paid an interim
dividend of 2.0p per share. However, as a result 
of the difﬁcult and uncertain trading environment,
the Board announced on 12 December 2007 that it
had decided not to pay a ﬁnal dividend for the year.
The Board intends to resume dividend payments
once trading conditions and the market outlook 
have improved.
Dividend
Hard Rock
Pension plan
8 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements
In October 2007, Chancellor 
of the Exchequer Alistair
Darling MP visited his local
Mecca Bingo club at Fountain
Park in Edinburgh to listen to
customer and employee calls
for an end to ‘double taxation’.
We announced at the time of our last market update
in December 2007 that trading had stabilised in
Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos in the nine-week
period since 7 October. During the ﬁrst eight weeks
of 2008 this position has been broadly maintained 
in Grosvenor Casinos, with a modest improvement 
in Mecca Bingo.
During the period, Group revenue declined by
10.3% on a like for like basis against the ﬁrst eight
weeks in 2007.
In Mecca Bingo, like for like revenue was 13.5%
lower than in the ﬁrst eight weeks in 2007, with
admissions down by 13.6% and spend per head up
0.1%. This compares with the 17.3% fall in revenue
experienced during the 17 weeks from the start of
September 2007 (when the Gambling Act was
implemented) to the end of the year. 
In Grosvenor Casinos like for like revenue was 
13.4% lower than in the ﬁrst eight weeks in 2007,
with admissions down 13.4% and spend per head
level. This performance reﬂects a good comparative
trading period in 2007, the effects of competitor
openings on a small number of our casinos and a
reduction in promotional expenditure at the start 
of 2008. In absolute revenue terms we have
continued to trade in line with the ﬁnal 17 
weeks in 2007.
In Blue Square revenue grew by 14.9%, with a
strong improvement in gaming but continued
weakness from our sportsbook. 
The Board believes that 2008 will be a challenging
year for Rank's businesses as they continue to
respond to changes in the legislative and economic
environment. The priority for the Group is to stabilise
performance while retaining a focus on the longer-
term opportunities for growth in the gaming sector. 
Ian Burke
Chief Executive
Year-on-year revenue growth for the eight weeks
to 24 February 2008
Like for like 
revenue* % Total revenue %
Mecca Bingo (13.5) (16.8)
Top Rank España (2.7) (2.7)
Grosvenor Casinos (13.4) (12.2)
Blue Square 14.9 14.9
Group (10.3) (11.0) 
* excludes new club openings, closures and relocations
Outlook
Directors’ Report: Business Review
