 Chief Executive’s
Statement
RapidCloud International Plc  l  Annual Report 2014 4
2014 was a year of significant development for RapidCloud
across all metrics including financial performance, operational
progress and strategic acquisitions.
Personnel and Product Development 
During the year we significantly increased our investment in the
Company’s sales and technical capabilities increasing total staff
numbers to 160 from 58 last year.
Through continued R&D investment and the acquisition of
Exxelnet, RapidCloud now offers complete end-to-end solutions
to enterprises including infrastructure hosting, back-end
software applications, front-end design and internet marketing
product suites.
Whilst we offer a complete end-to-end solution, staying ahead
of our competition is key, and as such R&D and in-house product
development is core to our ongoing success.
Our investment in developing new enterprise level products is
leading directly to higher value work, and we are ‘moving up
the value chain’.
Products Launched in 2014 and post period
Within 2014 and the first quarter of 2015, we launched the
following products: 
RapidDocs is a cloud-based, multi-user Document Management
System to manage the workflow, creation, retrieval, archival
and searching of massive amount of digital documents or
images in real-time across multi-devices from anywhere,
anytime.
RapidDMS is a cloud-based Dealership Management & Reward
System to assist manufacturers or distributors in managing its
dealers’ network by providing modules and real-time business
intelligence information across multi-devices.
RapidSEO is a Search Engine Optimisation solution that
optimises web content and page structure to improve lead
conversion rate and the overall performance of a website.
RapidSEO will help channel prospective buyers by obtaining top
ranking on major search engines.
RapidSEM can structure, control and determine the relevancy
of online advertisement campaigns to maximise its full
potential, resulting in better lead conversions. With RapidSEM
reporting tools, clients can monitor the effectiveness of the
marketing campaign and refine it for greater results.
We are already gaining traction with these new products, which
importantly move us up the value chain and into important new
market segments such as the public sector.
Our improved
performance,
across all business
units, is validation of our
skill sets, our ability to
deliver innovative products
and services while
maintaining high customer
service levels. Importantly
so, our wins in 2014 is a
testament to our ability to
scale our cloud solutions
to handle big data
requirements for both
private and public sector.
”
“
236655 Rapid Cloud pp01-pp07  03/06/2015  11:57  Page 4 RapidCloud International Plc  l  Annual Report 2014 5
New Contract Wins 
We announced several new contract wins throughout the year,
which demonstrated the early success of both our new sales
teams and enhanced product suite.
The most notable and material contract announced within the
year was with the national legislature of a country in Southeast
Asia. This contract is to assist in the development of a
cloud-based management system which can rapidly process vast
amounts of legislation data while providing members of the
legislature easy access to required information such as
documents, video, profiles and events through a single secure
interface. This win is a significant validation of skill sets and high
customer service levels, servicing both the private and public
sectors. We see it as a testament to our ability to scale our cloud
solutions to handle big data requirements. 
Outlook 
2014 saw progressive expansion in customer numbers, our
geographic footprint and our service offering.
With the acquisition of Exxelnet we gained not only a foothold
in the key territory of Singapore, but also an expert team of
software engineers and digital marketing specialists which are
now fully integrated into the enlarged group and whose
capabilities broadened our offering to customers.
With a broadened offering comes the opportunity to secure
higher value work, and with our enhanced sales team operating
in all our five regions we are continue to see a strengthening
pipeline develop.
This along with catering to our existing valued customer base,
has led to an increase in total client numbers and an increased
rate of retention at 75%.
Our business continues to be profitable and cash generative, as
we continue with deepening our footprint and expansion
strategy. The Board expects continued strategic expansion and
a strong performance in the current year and beyond.
Raymond Chee
Chief Executive
2 June 2015
Chief Executive’s
Statement (continued)
236655 Rapid Cloud pp01-pp07  03/06/2015  11:57  Page 5
