 Abacus Group plc   5
General Review 
The year has seen an improvement in market conditions for
our distribution businesses, primarily in the UK and Eire. The
UK industry association, AFDEC, reports a 7% growth in the
market during our financial year compared to the same period
the previous year. This growth has been driven by increased
demand from UK customers, while average selling prices
have remained relatively stable. In the Nordic region, AFDEC
statistics show a market growth of 5%, and in Italy, ASSODEL,
their Industry Association, reports a flat market. Improvement
in the UK market also benefited our UK based electro-
mechanical assembly businesses, CTL and CCS. At Trident,
the display and related products specialist, there was a further
disappointing delay in billings on our medical contracts. 
During the year we completed the acquisition of 100% of the
share capital of ECC, our Italian based distribution business,
and in June 2004 the Group acquired 100% of Telecom
Design Communications Ltd (TDC), a UK based distributor of
wireless modules and wired communication semiconductors,
an area which has strong growth potential for the future. 
Overall, our Group sales grew by 28%, or by 9% on a like-for-
like basis when excluding acquisitions, and our Group
Bookings showed a 30% growth, or 10% on a like for like
basis. The largest growth contributors were our UK and Eire
distribution businesses, which outgrew their markets. AFDEC
data for both the Nordic and UK markets were re-stated
during the year to take account of new members. The
statistics now represent 86% of the UK distribution market,
and 54% of the Nordic region. Based on these restated
numbers, our share in the UK and Eire grew to 14% in 2004,
compared to 13.5% in 2003, but decreased from 4.9% to
4.6% in the Nordic region. In Italy ECC had a 4% market share
according to ASSODEL whose members represent 74% of the
distribution market. 
The impact of movement in component volumes and average
selling prices is significant, and we measure and closely
monitor these statistics. Our UK distribution businesses,
excluding acquisitions, showed a growth in volumes of 17% in
2004 compared to 2003, but a reduction in average selling
prices of 3%. In the Nordic region our volumes grew by 7%
and average selling prices declined by 4%. Our workloads as
measured by the number of lines shipped, showed a year-on-
year growth of 10% in the UK and a reduction of 8% in the
Nordic region.
All of the markets that we supply are extremely competitive
due to the need to support our customers with the right
products at the right price, and consequently our gross
margins are constantly under pressure. To continue to invest
in the business to support both customers and suppliers
requires us to maintain margins at a level that makes this
possible, and this has therefore always been a high priority for
Abacus management. Our gross margins in our continuing
businesses were 23.8%, compared to 23.2% in 2003. Due to
the lower gross margins prevalent in our industry in Europe,
the acquisition of ECC during the year resulted in the Group
margin for 2004 being 22.9%. 
Headcount in our continuing distribution businesses
increased by 21 in 2004. With the majority of our sales growth
coming from increased activity rather than improving prices,
plus our focus on attracting new customers and maintaining
service levels, 80% of this growth has been in new positions
within sales and marketing.  Including acquisitions, our
distribution headcount ended the year at a total of 605.
Chief Executive’s Review
Abacus Polar has continued to perform extremely well benefiting from its local
sales office culture and an increased focus on promoting new products to its
customers. It has again strengthened its position in the UK and Eire market and
has seen its new order intake increase by 21% in 2004, compared to 2003. Billings
increased by 16% over the same period. 6 Abacus Group plc
Individual Company Review
We approach the market with an extremely high level of
personal service combined with a broad product offering. A
strong technical capability supports the introduction of new
products to our existing and potential customer base, and we
combine this with the policy of having other businesses that
create a differentiation which distinguishes Abacus from our
competitors.
Abacus Polar, our UK and Eire based distribution business,
has continued to perform extremely well benefiting from its
local sales office culture and an increased focus on
promoting new products to its customers. It has again
strengthened its position in the UK and Eire market and has
seen its new order intake increase by 21% in 2004, compared
to 2003. Billings increased by 16% over the same period.
The movement of manufacturing from the UK to lower cost
areas has slowed significantly, and the impact on Abacus
Polar has again been minimal during the year.  However, we
recognise that it is still a threat to our growth and during the
course of the year we have invested in additional sales
personnel to find and introduce new customers into the
Group.  By adding headcount to support the increased
activity, we can ensure the service offered to our existing loyal
customers is unaffected. This improved focus on taking new
products to market and approaching potential new customers
will be a key driver for the business in the coming year.
Micromark C&CD has also performed well, with its order
intake growing by 9% over 2003, and its Billings by 7%. We
continue to look for opportunities to expand its franchise
base, particularly in non-commodity areas in the electro-
mechanical product range. Although these products do not
have the same potential growth opportunities as a major
semiconductor franchise, they are inherently less cyclical with
regard to demand and price and usually have higher average
selling prices and gross margins.
Promax, our Nordic distribution business, has not performed
as well as our UK businesses and has seen its order intake
remain at the same level as 2003, and its Billings decline by
2%, resulting in a small loss of market share. Its position in
the Danish market is as strong as Abacus Polar’s in the UK,
but it has not performed as well as we had expected in the
three other countries within the Nordic region. Whilst we will
continue to deliver an excellent service in Denmark, our focus
during the next financial year will be on improving our result
from the other Nordic countries. We believe that the
introduction of our UK based IT system during the past
Summer will aid this process.
ECC, our Italian distribution business, joined the Group at the
beginning of the year when we increased our shareholding to
60% and the balance of 40% was acquired in May 2004. We
have been working with ECC as a commercial partner since
1999, and therefore have a good understanding of its
business. Since joining the Group, ECC has been able to add
new franchises and will build on these in the future. ECC’s
performance has met our expectations, although compared
to financial year 2003, its order intake and Billings have
declined by 3% in a flat market. 
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
Customer Sectors
Contract Manufacturing 
(Local) 31.2%
Audio Visual 2.0%
Medical 2.2%
Contract Manufacturing 
(Global) 2.9%
Distribution 3.6%
Printer 
Peripherals 5.8%
Communication 5.9%
Fire & security 7.3%
Instrumentation 10.1%
Others 14.3%
Industrial Control 14.7%
The new recruits – CCS expands.  Abacus Group plc   7
TDC, a UK based distributor focusing on the wireless and
wired communications market, was acquired in June 2004. In
last year’s Review, we identified this as a potential growth
market, and in such a circumstance, the option is either to
attempt to attract new franchises and personnel into the
Group, which is not easy, or to identify existing companies
that already have the franchises, the personnel and the
expertise. TDC fitted this profile well; we welcome them to the
Group, and look forward to their providing potential growth
opportunities as we move through the new financial year. One
of TDC’s major franchises has already agreed to work with us
from January 2005 in the Italian market, providing ECC with
further new products to take to existing and potential
customers.
Trident, our display and related products specialist, did not
perform as well as we had anticipated, due in the main to the
lack of shipments against their medical contracts.  Its new
order intake declined by 7% and its Billings by 2% when
compared to its 2003 result. These products remain a growth
market, and having established Trident in the Nordic region at
the end of 2003, we have now introduced the concept into
Italy. Trident will continue to focus on its core distribution
business, as well as other system build opportunities which
will bring growth in markets not normally covered by an
electronic component distributor. We will also continue to
seek ways to expand the business both in the UK and
abroad.
CTL and CCS, our electro-mechanical assembly businesses,
have both benefited from the improvement in the UK market
with a combined growth in their new order intake of 16% in
2004 compared to 2003, and a Billings growth of 17% in the
same period. They both offer a high quality local
manufacturing facility to UK customers whose volume or
complexity of product does not lend itself to offshore
manufacturing. We remain convinced that offering a different
service from our competition is another key factor to our
successful growth in the UK market.
Dubilier, our “own brand” component business, which has in
excess of 80% of its sales in Passive products, has seen an
increase in volumes of 10% but a further reduction in average
selling prices of 14%. It continues to seek new products in the
electro-mechanical product area to broaden its product range
and, as with CTL and CCS, remains both a key differentiator
and a useful contributor to the Group’s gross margins.
Outlook
We enter the new year with a number of key parameters in
our business showing improvement over the position at the
beginning of financial year 2004. Our 90 day order book
across the Group is up 3%, whilst in the UK and Eire
distribution it is up 8%. The daily turns business, measured as
new orders Booked and Billed in the same month, is up 18%
in our UK and Eire distribution companies. However, whilst a
number of the major semiconductor manufacturers have
experienced strong growth, over the past 12 months we have
seen a minimal rise in average selling prices for
semiconductors and virtually no supply problems. Industry
forecasters are currently predicting smaller growth in 2005,
and consequently we do not expect to get any benefit from
supply shortages or increased prices in the near future.
Organic growth in our business will come from us continuing
to offer an excellent level of service to all our customers. This
ensures that we remain focused on the fundamentals of our
business so that we deliver an overall performance above the
average for our industry. However, we are committed to
seeking opportunities to strengthen our presence in existing
markets, and to expanding our geographical coverage for the
various divisions of the Group.
Martin Kent
Chief Executive
23 November 2004
