 The Board is recommending an increase in the final dividend
of 3%, making a total for the year up 3% at 10.5p.
The principal reason for Abacus’ success in 2004 has been
the strong performance of its core UK business.  This has
been achieved as the result of our focus on excellent local
customer service, good logistics and a proactive approach to
the introduction of new products into a changing marketplace,
where we have gained new customers. Our electro-
mechanical assembly businesses have fared even better than
the core distribution business, with sales growth of 17%.
Overseas our performance has been uneven with a good
result in Denmark being offset by downturns in our Swedish
and Finnish companies.  In Italy the market showed no growth 
over the period.
In May 2004 we announced the acquisition of 40% of the
share capital of ECC Distribution Limited taking our ownership
to 100%. ECC is the UK holding company of ECC Elettronica
SpA, an Italian electronic component distributor which is
headquartered in Milan and covers Italy through a network of
five additional regional offices. The ownership of ECC has
given Abacus the opportunity to enhance ECC’s franchise line
card and develop its product offering.
We believe that the market for wired and wireless applications in
communications shows significant growth potential, and in June
2004 we acquired T elecom Design Communications Ltd (TDC)
for £2 million. TDC fits well with the Abacus culture of adding
value to the products it sells, by providing customers with design
and technical support in an attractive sector of the market.
We remain cautious on the global economic outlook, but
Abacus has entered the current year with a strong order book
and a range of customer and product opportunities. The
Group will continue to expand its areas of operation, both
geographically and into areas of market growth. As in the year
under review, this will be achieved organically and by
acquisition whenever suitable opportunities arise. 
There have been a number of Board changes during the year.
In June, Bob Lambourne joined the Group as Senior
Independent Director, and we welcome the experience he
brings to the Board. In September, both Brian Murdoch and
Gary Kibblewhite retired as Directors. Brian joined Abacus in
1987 as Managing Director, and was a major force in the
Company over 17 years. He stepped down as Chief Executive
in 2000, at which time he became Deputy Chairman on a part-
time basis. We are grateful for his very considerable
contribution. Gary became a Non-Executive Director in 1991,
and his knowledge of the industry has been of great benefit to
the Board. We wish both Brian and Gary well for the future.
Again, I thank and congratulate everyone in the Abacus Group
for their support and hard work over the past twelve months.
Harry Westropp
Chairman
23 November 2004
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report another strong performance from the Abacus Group, with
Group sales rising 28% to £188 million, from £147 million in the previous year.
Sales on a like-for-like basis prior to acquisitions, increased by 9% to £160 million.
This compares with growth of 7% for our industry in the UK market over the same
period. The two acquisitions made during the year added a further £28 million to
sales. Profit before taxation and goodwill was up by 25% to £10.0 million and
earnings per share increased by 18% (after goodwill, profits were up by 22% to
£9.3 million and earnings per share increased by 14%). 
4 Abacus Group plc 
CTL’s new clean room and
custom lead pre-form service.
