 Abacus Polar has been at the forefront of electronic
component distribution for over 30 years. The sales operation
is run through a network of regional sales offices offering local
customer support. It currently has 19 sales operations in 10
locations covering the UK and Eire. A wide range of market
leading franchises are represented across all product
technologies. Abacus Polar prides itself on its high level of
customer service.
Micromark C&CD is based in Maidenhead and distributes
products across the UK and Eire. Micromark was formed in
1970, combining with C&CD in 2000. Micromark C&CD is a
narrow line, broadbased technology electronic component
distributor. The company is dedicated to providing excellent
technical support alongside a high level of 
personal service.
TDC was acquired by the Abacus Group in June 2004. The
company is based in Basingstoke and was founded in 1992.
It specialises in wireless and wired products for embedded
applications in Machine to Machine (M2M), Automotive,
Consumer Electronic and Telecommunication products. 
Abacus Group at a glance
2 Abacus Group plc
Promax is headquartered in Them in Denmark and was
established in 1985. From its original base it now markets its
services through a network of 8 sales offices in all four Nordic
countries. Promax offers a complete range of electronic
technologies from the world’s leading suppliers. Offering a
high level of technical support through its highly trained and
qualified workforce has enabled Promax to become a leading
distributor in the Nordic region.
ECC, was purchased outright in 2004 and is now solely
owned by the Abacus Group. With its headquarters in Milan,
it covers Italy through a network of regional offices. The
company has three divisions, ITC which sells IT peripherals,
Components which acts as a manufacturer’s representative
for a number of ‘Blue Chip’ manufacturers and Distribution
which holds franchises across all product groups.
Electronic component distribution
Telecom Design Communication (TDC),
the specialist distributor in Telecoms.
  CTL is based In Stonehouse, Gloucestershire and markets its
services across the UK and Eire. CTL offers a range of sub-
contract manufacturing services to the electronics industry
including standard cable assemblies, electromechanical sub-
assembly through to complex box build and associated
testing. The 40,000 sq. ft. facility in Gloucestershire employs a
cell manufacturing technique to utilise space and processes
most efficiently. Automated and semi-automated equipment is
extensively used and, where hand assembly is required, the
technicians are highly trained and qualified. The facility holds
approval to ISO and BABT, and an IIP award.
CCS is based in Runcorn and offers cost efficient wiring and
box build solutions from design through to complete project
management. CCS markets its services in the UK and Eire
and is approved to ISO and UL. 
Abacus Group plc   3
Dubilier is headquartered in Dunmow, Essex and has been
supplying products for the electronics industry for over 50
years. Originally a UK manufacturer, Dubilier now has its
products manufactured globally. Dubilier’s comprehensive
range of Passive products has in recent years been
supplemented by Electromechanical products such as fans,
connectors, fuses and more recently, batteries. The Dubilier
name is synonymous with quality and value. Dubilier markets
its products through Europe, selling both direct and through
its distribution network. 
The Trident Microsystems group was formed in 1967 and
has grown to become the leading flat-panel displays and
printer specialist in the UK. In addition, it has a Benelux
operation and is currently expanding into the Nordic region
and Italy.
Its expertise has been earned by successfully managing
customer projects, through signing key franchises and by
investing in skilled people. The group has products for OEM
industrial, medical, retail, instrumentation and automotive
designers, as well as the capability to develop bespoke
display and man-machine-interface systems according to
customer need. Trident’s products and expertise are available
through field sales engineers, a network of comprehensive
websites and through its in-house technicians and product
specialists, all ready to find solutions for customers needing
display, printer, industrial computer and card reader products. 
Value added distribution services
