 Chairman ʼs statement
Raymarine achieved good progress in 2006. In 
our second year as a listed Group we have seen 
continued growth in revenues and proﬁ ts. 
The robust demand in the early part of the 
year, which led to a period of short supply of 
ﬁ nished goods, was professionally handled and 
resolved by the executive team and by year 
end most major markets had exceeded their 
revenue targets. The adjusted EBITA* rose by 
£2.2m (2006: £24.6m; 2005: £22.4m). The 
ﬁ nal dividend of 5.95 pence per share, when 
combined with the interim dividend of 2.8 pence 
per share, demonstrates 25% growth over 2005. 
The dividend is covered 2.3 times by adjusted 
basic earnings.*
We have increased the pace of research and 
development. The resulting introduction of new, 
enhanced and innovative products continues 
to reinforce our reputation as the leading 
provider of high quality leisure marine electronics 
worldwide. 
A major milestone with the outsourcing project 
was achieved with the on-time completion of 
the transfer of all the production cells from 
Portsmouth to the Flextronics factory in Hungary. 
This ﬁ rst phase was completed with exceptional 
professionalism and the whole team is to be 
complimented on this signiﬁ cant achievement. 
The next phase of ensuring we obtain the full 
ﬁ nancial beneﬁ ts of worldwide sourcing with 
our partner is now being approached with equal 
vigour by the team.
A review of the Asia-Paciﬁ c markets identiﬁ ed a 
growing number of opportunities for the Group 
in Asia and Australia. A senior executive has been 
appointed to manage the region and a wholly 
owned subsidiary has been established to provide 
the cornerstone of our activities in the region.
The end of the year saw Kieran Breheny, 
Engineering director, retire from the Board after 
12 years with the Group. I and the Board would 
like to thank Kieran for his contribution to the 
Group in those years. We are very pleased to 
have been able to appoint Gordon Pope to 
the position of Engineering director. Gordon 
brings a wealth of electronic engineering and 
management skills to the Group.
I would also like to thank the management 
and all our employees for their contribution to 
another successful year. Their commitment has 
been outstanding and we would further extend 
our thanks and very best wishes to the personnel 
affected by the outsourcing project.
Our past investments have enabled us to build a 
very strong position in the world’s leisure marine 
markets. We continue to invest and expand on 
those foundations and the Board expects the 
Group to continue to make good progress in 
2007 and reach the targets set.
Peter Ward
Chairman
26 February 2007
* Calculations of these measures is explained on page 1.
Raymarine plc Annual Report 2006 2 Raymarine plc Annual Report 2006 3 Raymarine plc Annual Report 2006 4
