 Chief executive ofﬁ cer ʼs review
Introduction
The year to 31 December 2006 was an extremely 
active and successful one during which our sales 
grew by 12% (from £121.9m to £136.5m) whilst 
launching many new products and transferring 
all manufacturing from our Portsmouth site to 
an outsourced facility in Hungary. In the ﬁ rst half 
of the year we experienced restricted supply for 
several months, despite which, for the full year, 
adjusted EBITA* rose by 10% (from £22.4m to 
£24.6m).
Adjusted EBITDA* grew by 8% to £27.7m and 
we are pleased to announce a 19% increase in 
the ﬁ nal dividend to 5.95 pence per share. 
The market
The market for leisure marine electronics has 
demonstrated similar tends throughout the 
Company’s 30+ year history. Boats are increasing 
in size and sophistication. Boat owners, skippers 
and crew are increasingly expecting a wider 
range of electronics for safety, navigation, vessel 
control, communication and entertainment. 
2006 has been no exception in demonstrating 
these trends, although the market for mid to 
large boats, where Raymarine is strongest, 
fared much better than the market for smaller 
boats. Recent reports conﬁ rm that demand over 
the past year for new, small leisure and ﬁ shing 
boats (those less than 25 feet in length), where 
Raymarine has its lowest brand share, have 
been hardest hit. Larger and luxury boats, our 
main markets, continued to beneﬁ t from healthy 
demand. 
We beneﬁ t from our very strong relationships with 
builders of new boats across the world, however 
the larger part of our business is centred on 
supplying a comprehensive range of electronics for 
the refurbishment and replacement market.
Trading
Demand and sell-through was robust and 
consistent throughout our world markets, 
although developing markets enjoyed greater 
growth. 
In the ﬁ rst half of the year we experienced 
product supply difﬁ culties. These were caused 
by a mismatch between anticipated and actual 
demand, late introduction of new products 
and a UK component supplier ceasing to trade. 
These had been resolved by the time we entered 
our second half. The US and UK suffered most 
from these disruptions though the US business 
recovered well; revenues by the year end were 
up 8% in dollar terms on the previous year. The 
UK domestic market, now less than 10% of our 
business, however was unable to recoup the 
shortfall and year on year revenues fell by 4%.
Our fastest growing markets were the Middle 
East, up 55% year on year, and Eastern Europe 
where sales grew by 47%.
Business in Northern Europe experienced 
healthy demand, with Scandinavia in particular 
contributing to a 35% increase in sales. Southern 
European countries showed an increase of 22%.
Asia-Paciﬁ c trade was disappointing given 
the opportunities in this market. A modest 
9% increase in sales does not reﬂ ect its true 
potential. We have taken steps to address 
this including taking direct control over our 
distribution in this region.
Product development
Raymarine’s unique skills and intellectual 
property, built over many years, allow for the 
multi-level networking of devices to give users 
conﬁ dence, safety, simplicity and functionality at 
sea. Whenever we develop products we consider 
this encompassing proposition, particularly for 
mid to larger boats that need a complete suite of 
high technology electronics.
For smaller boats we utilise the same 
technologies but in more compact stand alone 
units. Our development of high deﬁ nition ﬁ sh 
ﬁ nding technology is an example of this, as is our 
expertise in bright sunlight viewable displays.
New products are the lifeblood of the business 
and they received much attention from within 
the Company and a high level of interest 
amongst customers world-wide. Boat shows are 
a testament to consumer’s insatiable appetite 
for new, well designed and robust products. 
Established products continue to sell well, 
however, with life cycles which are much longer 
than might be expected in other industries.
During the last year we successfully launched 
14 new products. Most of them were launched 
within the ﬁ rst half, although a little later than 
planned. By the end of 2006 they were all in full 
distribution and been well received. 
These new products covered an updated 
instrument range which offers functionality from 
stand-alone display units to fully integrated 
systems providing information on speed, depth, 
wind, heading, temperature and compass plus 
autopilot control heads that offer large displays 
with heading and rudder angle indicators, pilot 
controls and Autotack.
With safety at sea paramount, Raymarine launched 
its wireless man overboard system, LifeTag. LifeTag 
is small and can be worn or pocketed. If a crew 
member falls overboard or strays outside the 
range (typically 30 feet), contact with base station 
is broken and an alarm will sound. In addition 
LifeTag can be activated on Raymarine’s C and E 
series displays giving an emergency visible symbol 
and a bearing for passage to that point. 
* Calculations of these measures is explained on page 1.
Raymarine plc Annual Report 2006 5 Malcolm Miller
Chief executive ofﬁ cer
26 February 2007
The new A65 was well received, particularly in 
Scandinavia where it made a good choice for 
owners of smaller boats with open cockpits 
and centre consoles. It is a dual function 6.5” 
sunlight viewable display combining simplicity 
with advanced chart plotting and high deﬁ nition 
ﬁ sh ﬁ nding technology.
Enhancements to E series were introduced 
giving the ability to input weather data and 
3rd party automatic identiﬁ cation systems. This, 
together with other upgrades, ensured that this 
product range again led the multifunction sector.
New radar scanners were launched in newly 
designed radome housings. These give improved 
target separation and clarity at short ranges, 
plus increased target visibility at long ranges.
Many new products are planned for introduction 
in 2007 and beyond.
Supply chain 
In July 2005 we took the decision to move our 
entire Portsmouth manufacturing facility to an 
outsourced partner with a large manufacturing 
plant in Hungary. 
We have commented regularly on the two 
phases of the project. The ﬁ rst phase was 
the intensely detailed one of the transfer 
of printed circuit board insertion, assembly 
process, production cells, test equipment and 
training from one site to another. Considering 
the differing languages, practices and 
processes together with a year of new product 
introduction and record volumes, this has been 
accomplished very successfully on timetable and 
on budget. 
We are delighted with the contribution this 
has made to increased output, quality and 
production yields.
The second phase of the project entails moving 
from Raymarine’s suppliers of raw materials 
and components to Flextronics’ suppliers, and is 
on schedule but yet to be completed. As I said 
in my last report, whilst we remain conﬁ dent, 
there are risks. These risks are associated with 
the selection, valuation, approval and usage of 
a great number of parts. It is anticipated that 
this phase will be ﬁ nished during the ﬁ rst half 
of 2007. 
People
People are our most highly valued resource 
and for the Raymarine family where some of 
our colleagues have been with us for more 
than 25 years, 2006 has been a challenging 
year. We have sadly had to say farewell to over 
200 people, mainly through the redundancy 
programme associated with outsourcing 
production.
The relatively smooth transfer of production to 
Hungary is due to the tireless approach of many 
employees, and we are enormously grateful 
for their contribution even though some were 
aware they may lose their jobs. This, together 
with our partner’s approach to diligence and 
commitment, created an environment where risk 
assessment, teamwork and focus contributed to 
a very successful outcome. 
The Group is likely to undergo further change as 
we assess where we need to recruit and retrain 
people to ensure that we remain ahead in this 
industry through continual improvement to 
product, process and performance.
Outlook
We expect trading in the current year to be in 
line with expectations.
Demand has continued to be robust in the 
UK and the Rest of the World, following a 
stronger than expected close to 2006, although 
a resultant shortage of certain products has 
meant that we have so far been unable to 
fully capitalise on this opportunity. The US also 
ﬁ nished last year better than anticipated but 
has seen a slow down in the market in recent 
weeks. We do however expect the US to meet 
our overall targets for 2007.
Raymarine has a large number of new product 
launches scheduled for 2007 in areas of new 
instrumentation, systems and displays – most 
of these are targeted at the larger luxury end of 
the boating market, although some are aimed at 
smaller boats.
As a result we look forward to the future with 
conﬁ dence.
Raymarine plc Annual Report 2006 6 Raymarine plc Annual Report 2006 7
