 Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s Review
Introduction
In the year to 31 December 2007 Raymarine demonstrated that it could 
continue growing its world-wide business to successfully offset a softer US 
market. Group revenues improved by 3.1% to £140.7m from £136.5m in 
2006. In real terms, accounting for the devaluation of the US dollar and 
on a like for like basis (excluding the beneﬁ t of acquisitions), sales grew by 
4.0%.
Throughout 2007 pricing was maintained. Cost of goods fell as the Group 
started to beneﬁ t from the lower cost of labour, overheads and components 
achieved through outsourcing production to Hungary.
As a result of these activities adjusted EBITDA* grew by 21.0% to £33.5m 
and we are pleased to propose, subject to shareholder approval, an 11.4% 
increase in the ﬁ nal dividend to 6.63p per share.
The market
Raymarine supplies electronic navigation, control, safety, communication 
and entertainment equipment for recreational boats throughout the world. 
It is regarded by boaters in all markets as being the premier brand for such 
equipment. Just under two thirds of its products head for the re-equipping 
and refurbishment of power and sail boats through retail, wholesale and 
dealer channels and the rest is delivered either direct or via dealers to 
boatyards for installation into new boats. 
The market can be characterised in the past year in two ways – regionally, 
between US and the Rest of the World and by boat size, mid to large size 
boats against the market for smaller boats.
During 2007 the market outside of the US continued to be driven by robust 
demand for the supply of equipment across continental Europe and the 
emerging markets of Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Asia Paciﬁ c, which 
have different characteristics to the US markets, were particularly strong. 
Across the US, the retail market weakened dealer channels were soft, but 
sales to OEMs grew by 13%.
By boat size, those companies building larger boats (and that includes those 
based in the US) continued to see strong demand. Above 60ft in length, 
builders were claiming business up 10%, above 80ft market estimates put last 
year’s growth at 18%. However, builders of smaller sized boats, most notably 
those in the US, were in a less upbeat mood, seeing downturns in volume and 
in some cases they were consolidating plants.
Acquisitions
In January Raymarine set up its own subsidiary to serve Australia and South 
East Asia thereby replacing the long standing distributor that had represented 
Raymarine in that region for more than 20 years. This acquisition differed 
from the others in that a new organisation was set up from scratch. In March 
the Group acquired SDM Electronique SAS (“SDM”), the sole distributor for 
France, Monaco and Overseas French Territories and in August acquired its 
German distributorship H.E. Eissing KG (GmbH & Co.) (“Eissing GmbH”). 
These have been trading well on the back of excellent and well established 
relationships with boat builders, retailers and dealers. This has proved to be 
invaluable in getting even closer to the customer base and tapping into a 
proﬁ table supply chain. Whilst these are successful organisations with years of 
experience in the sales, marketing and support of marine products, there are 
opportunities for improvement.
At the time of announcing our interim results I commented that I hoped we 
could add other distributorships in time and I was therefore delighted to 
announce on 4 February 2008 the acquisition of Deck Marine S.p.A., (“Deck 
Marine”), the sole distributor of Raymarine products in Italy. Deck Marine, 
which was founded in 1976, employs 15 staff and is headquartered in Milan. 
Alberto Monfrini, current Managing Director of Deck Marine, will remain with 
the company. In addition to Raymarine products, Deck Marine distributes 
a small number of products manufactured by third party suppliers, and will 
continue to do so following the acquisition. 
Deck Marine is the fourth distributorship to be acquired by Raymarine in 12 
months. In Deck Marine we know we are getting a further strong team of 
people with excellent trading relationships and a leading market share in one 
of Raymarine’s key markets. 
In addition to this, on the 25 February 2008 we announced the acquisition of 
the business and assets of NavSystems Oy the sole distributor of Raymarine 
products in Finland. NavSystems operate from a base near Helsinki and 
employs a total of 4 staff. The current Managing Director will work for us for a 
period of time to effect a smooth transition.
We will continue to seek out appropriate opportunities elsewhere.
Trading
With Raymarine having such a strong market presence, its trading mirrors 
the markets’ trends to an extent, although there are always opportunities in 
certain sectors and regions for greater share.
On a like-for-like basis and excluding the beneﬁ t of the acquisitions of 
distributorships, Raymarine business in regions outside of the Americas grew 
by 12.7% in 2007 over 2006. The emerging markets across Eastern Europe 
and the Middle East provided excellent growth at 21% and 19% respectively. 
It is particularly pleasing to record strong performances in the more well-
established regions – Australia and South East Asia grew year on year by just 
over 20% and Southern Europe showed an improvement of just under 19%. 
UK Domestic revenues climbed by 11.6% reﬂ ecting the strength of UK boat 
builders and most signiﬁ cantly gains created in the retail channel. Northern 
Europe excluding the UK fared less well – Holland and Sweden were weaker 
than they had been in previous years and in total this region advanced by 3%.
In the Americas, sales direct to boat builders, accounting for 22% of 
Raymarine’s Americas business, grew by 13% but retailers (19% of business) 
fell by 20% when compared to the prior year. Dealers and wholesalers, who 
were ﬂ at at the half year, shrank by 2.7% by the year end. Sales in the US 
overall fell by 3.9% year on year at constant exchange rates, just marginally 
worse than we reported at the half year stage. Overseas distributors, which 
includes sales to Canada and South America, fell by 5%. This was particularly 
disappointing and these regions must represent an opportunity for growth in 
the future.
* Calculation of these measures is explained on page 1.
5 Raymarine plc Annual Report 2007  Product development
This area continues to be paramount for Raymarine and during the year the 
engineering division went through a change in structure to deliver improved 
efﬁ ciency. Whilst market trends and strength of distribution have an impact on 
Raymarine’s top line growth, new products are capable of having an equally 
signiﬁ cant effect as customers search for advanced technology that meets 
their growing needs. Consumers are tending to purchase or reﬁ t larger boats 
which require devices that can be networked and give conﬁ dence, safety, 
simplicity and improved functionality at sea.
Each year Raymarine spends a large amount of money and time evaluating 
product opportunities and how best to deliver value to the consumer. 
Raymarine is a premium brand and therefore aims its offering at the upper 
level of each sector. With this in mind the product management group 
thoroughly researches and deﬁ nes the product concept and speciﬁ cation 
before handing it over to the largest group of employees – the engineering 
division. Each project takes between 9 months and 18 months for this division 
to deliver and whilst some of the work is outsourced, most of it is insourced 
at Raymarine’s facilities in Portsmouth, UK. During and after completion, 
products undergo thousands of hours of trials and testing in some of the 
harshest conditions available. Raymarine employs a network of trialists 
operating both in man-made environmental chambers and also the deepest 
and roughest oceans of the world.
Early in 2007 the Group launched a number of new products in different 
sectors and aimed at different sized boats – from the smaller A60 combined 
Chartplotter and Fishﬁ nder for boats with centre consoles and open cockpits, 
to the G170 and G190 marine displays for the larger vessel segment. 
Later in the year Raymarine launched the ﬁ rst colour instrument with eight 
user-deﬁ ned data pages offering speed, depth, heading, wind, engine and 
environmental data modes. Two new class D DSC high performance radios 
were added to the communications range and for larger vessels the G 
Series was introduced to accompany the G170 and G190 displays. G Series 
is a complete multifunction helm solution that offers advanced navigation 
visualisation capabilities and versatility. The system features 3D chartplotting 
with embedded cartography pre-installed on a hard disk drive, high deﬁ nition 
digital radar utilising, digital signal processing for improved target detection, 
networked video for accessing remote cameras, DVD and satellite television 
plus remote dedicated wired and wireless keyboards. All this gives Raymarine 
a distinct edge over its competitors and helps consolidate its global, market 
leading position.
Supply chain 
We continue to reap beneﬁ ts in product cost, yield and manufacturing quality 
from the successfully completed outsourcing project. Whilst we manage and 
own all critical design work from the UK, we commission the manufacture 
of these products to our partners around the world. Approximately 90% of 
products are sourced from Hungary, with most of the remainder coming from 
Mexico and Asia. 
Service levels to our world-wide customer base, measured by the daily 
fulﬁ llment of orders, improved throughout the year but with it inventory levels 
rose. Some of the increases are as a direct result of acquiring distributors, but 
stock turns can be much improved through better forecasting, logistics and 
inventory control and we will be focusing on this in the months ahead. At the 
end of the year we moved to a new warehouse and hub in the Netherlands 
and expect to serve most of Europe direct from this third party controlled 
facility. The Americas have for some time held inventory in a 
single strategically located hub in the US. A new hub has very recently been 
established in Australia to serve South East Asia.
Delivery to our customers, many of whom hold little stock and who are 
refurbishing and building new boats on a ‘just-in-time’ process, is a key metric 
by which we and our competitors are measured. 
People
The strength of Raymarine lies in its people. There are many long serving 
employees who have extensive knowledge within the marine industry and 
also newcomers who bring a wider experience from outside. Together they 
provide Raymarine with a unique ability to focus directly on a single brand 
aimed at one market. This year, as in previous years, they have worked 
tirelessly to deliver exceptional results in a challenging environment. As well 
as wanting to thank everyone for their efforts, I would also like to welcome 
new colleagues in Australia, France, Germany, Italy and Finland.
Outlook
As in previous years, Raymarine has a large number of new products 
scheduled for launch in 2008. Many of those expected to have the largest 
impact will be launched in the ﬁ nal quarter of the year.
We expect trading in the current year to be in line with expectations. We are 
forecasting that the US market will remain ﬂ at and that the regions outside 
the US will continue to grow in much the same way as they did last year. 
Builders of mid to large boats are reporting healthy orders.
Taking together the resilience of our overall spread of markets and the 
introduction of more attractive products to complement the existing, excellent 
range of new products, we are able to look forward to the future with 
conﬁ dence.
Malcolm Miller
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
25 February 2008
Raymarine plc Annual Report 2007 6 7 Raymarine plc Annual Report 2007 
