 Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report that for the ﬁ nancial year 2007, the Group 
achieved its proﬁ t expectations and continues to perform well.
A record adjusted basic EPS* of 24.5p, up 22.5%, is great testimony to 
everyone’s efforts in a year that saw the challenges arising from a slow 
down in certain segments of the leisure marine market in the US. Sales 
to the European markets and the new markets in Asia were extremely 
encouraging, with sales to the Rest of the World (RoW) up 19.5% to 
£80.0m.
The performance demonstrated the beneﬁ ts of a broad geographical 
spread of business. Overall revenues rose by 3.1% to £140.7m (2006: 
£136.5m) and adjusted proﬁ t before tax* was up 18.8% to £26.9m 
(2006: £22.6m).
The proﬁ t was supported by strong margin growth, upheld by the 
outsourcing programme which has now settled into a routine process 
within the Group. The strategy of continuing to acquire a number of 
key market distributors has contributed positively to earnings with new 
wholly-owned subsidiaries in Australia, France and Germany. We are 
delighted to welcome not only these companies and their employees 
into the Group, but also those of our largest European distributor, Deck 
Marine SpA, Italy and of our distributor in Finland, NavSystems Oy, the 
acquisitions which we announced this month.
The markets that have remained as independent distributors have 
collectively performed well and continued to build both OEM and 
aftermarket business. Despite the challenges in the US retail market, 
the OEM revenues with the US boat builders have held up extremely 
well, supported by the stronger demand being on larger vessels where 
Raymarine enjoys greater and more complex levels of equipment.
Of the new product launches in 2007, the G Series was the most 
signiﬁ cant addition to the range. The product fully meets the strategy of 
moving to both larger craft and greater system capability. It is our most 
powerful and comprehensive multi-function display product to date 
with extensive systems networking capacity. When coupled to the new 
digital radar, it creates one of the most complete control systems in 
leisure marine electronics. Presentations of the G Series at recent boat 
shows in Europe and the US have resulted in enthusiastic reviews both 
from the press and marine professionals.
Whilst the Board is mindful of the new pressures in world economies, 
it recognises that the fundamentals of the business remain very strong. 
The brand remains pre-eminent in the marketplace. The strategies 
of continuing to build a growing and comprehensive product range 
and driving new markets are supported by the continuing strength of 
OEM demand on growing large boat order books in Europe and Asia. 
It is the Board’s view that current trading is in line with expectations 
and the outlook for 2008 remains positive. It is therefore with this 
conﬁ dence that the ﬁ nal dividend for 2007 is proposed, subject to 
shareholder approval, at 6.63p per share.
The excellent performance of 2007 was only possible through a great 
deal of effort and commitment by everyone in the Group and the 
Board, on behalf of all the shareholders, express their thanks to all 
employees.
Peter Ward
Chairman
25 February 2008
* Calculation of these measures is explained on page 1.
Raymarine plc Annual Report 2007 2 3 Raymarine plc Annual Report 2007  Raymarine plc Annual Report 2007 4
