 Chairman’s Statement
I was delighted to join the board of Raymarine 
in December 2004, succeeding Roger Thomas 
as Chairman in September 2005. On behalf of 
the board I would like to pay tribute to Roger’s 
contribution in guiding the company to its 
flotation in December 2004 and into 2005. The 
initiatives taken during Roger’s Chairmanship 
have created a solid platform from which we 
can continue to build.
Our first year as a listed company has been 
both rewarding and encouraging. The financial 
targets set at the time of the flotation have 
been exceeded. We are delighted with these 
results, as they have been achieved in a year 
whilst undertaking the major manufacturing 
outsourcing project.
Revenue growth has been very strong, all 
major markets have exceeded targets. The 
EBITA* rose by 11.0% (2005: £22.4m; 2004: 
£20.2m) prior to the exceptional costs of 
outsourcing. The final dividend of 5 pence 
per share, which combined with the interim 
dividend of 2 pence gives a total dividend of 7 
pence per share for the full year, is supported 
by a strong operating cash flow and is 2.4 
times covered by adjusted earnings.
In July 2005, the board determined to 
outsource the majority of the group’s 
manufacturing function to Flextronics, a 
provider of electronics manufacturing services.
The early projections of expected savings are 
confirmed by the progress to date. The detail, 
planning and execution of this project has 
been exceptional. We now believe that the 
total one-off costs will come in slightly below 
initial estimates.
Raymarine’s comprehensive and market 
leading product range continues to attract 
new customers and strengthen existing 
relationships. The various boat shows around 
the world are a major sales platform for 
Raymarine and it is always encouraging to see 
the levels of OEM fitment of the company’s 
products on the boats displayed.
The company moves into 2006 with continuing 
confidence in the quality and performance of 
our product range. The success of new products 
such as the E Series in 2005 will continue 
to lead the market in 2006 and further new, 
innovative products will become available 
during the year.
Critical in our success has been the hard 
work and dedication of our staff. We are very 
fortunate to have their commitment to building 
a world beating business. Through such a 
strong focus on all the aspects of customer 
service it is this commitment that is propelling 
Raymarine forward at such an encouraging 
rate. I would like to thank them for their 
continued contribution to the company’s 
success.
We are extremely pleased to be able to 
welcome Jim Webster, Business Group Director 
of Spectris plc, to the board as a non-executive 
director. Jim brings a wealth of international 
operating experience to the board and will 
also take up the role of chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.
With the benefit of having strong executive 
leadership, excellent people and many 
opportunities to grow and develop the 
business, I have every confidence that we will 
meet the challenges of 2006 and achieve the 
ambitious targets set.
Peter Ward
Chairman of the Board
27 February 2006
*  Calculation of these measures is explained on page 1.
Raymarine Annual Report 2005 2 3 Raymarine Annual Report 2005  Raymarine Annual Report 2005 4
