 Malcolm Miller
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
27 February 2006
Chief Executive Offi  cer’s Review
Introduction
I am pleased to report that in our ﬁ rst full 
year as a quoted company we have delivered 
a strong performance across the group. Sales 
have increased by 14.7% (from £106.3m to 
£121.9m) and EBITA*, before outsourcing 
exceptional costs of £10.9m, has risen by 
11.0% (from £20.2m to £22.4m).
Raymarine’s success during 2005 has come 
from the introduction of a number of new 
and varied products, effective merchandising 
and marketing across a broad network of 
retailers and dealers and the company’s close 
relationships with boat builders.
Our operating cash ﬂ ow has remained robust, 
growing by £2.8m to £25.6m (as measured by 
EBITDA* and before deduction of exceptional 
costs and intangibles). Accordingly, we are 
pleased to be announcing a ﬁ nal dividend of 5 
pence per share.
The Market
Raymarine is a global leader in the leisure 
marine electronics market. Raymarine 
develops, manufactures and sells marine 
electronics for vessel navigation, monitoring, 
control and entertainment. This market 
is valued by Raymarine at approximately 
$1.1bn per annum and has been growing at 
approximately 5% per annum, with Raymarine 
growing faster within it by steadily gaining 
market share. 
The customer base is highly fragmented with 
many independent dealers, boat builders 
and retailers. Although there are some large 
groups in the US, this is not typical elsewhere. 
Raymarine has a very broad geographic 
footprint, with 90% of sales outside of the UK 
and importantly 51% of revenues are in the 
US, where half of the world’s leisure boats are 
purchased. The company chooses to distribute 
directly to channels in the US and the UK and 
uses a well established network of distributors 
in some 80+ countries. Despite the western 
economies making up the bulk of our business, 
new business opportunities are arising in 
Eastern Europe and South East Asia.
The industry’s rate of product introduction 
has traditionally been slow. Over the past 3 
years Raymarine has dramatically increased 
new product development. We believe 
that we lead in many areas of product 
technology and expect competitors to follow. 
However, the difﬁ culties in engineering and 
building products, that can withstand the 
harsh environment, the unique channels of 
distribution and the need for very high levels 
of worldwide customer support, naturally limits 
their number.
Raymarine’s business is generated from boat 
refurbishment and product replacement by 
dealers and consumers, together making up 
the bulk of revenues, and also from original 
installations by boat builders. Our core strength 
is across mid to larger sized boats, ranging 
from 35ft to over 100ft in length. Throughout 
2005 demand from the mid to larger boat 
sector has grown. Owners and prospective 
buyers of these boats tend to be older and 
more afﬂ uent and appear more resilient to 
economic cycles and so maintain a higher 
discretionary spend. A recent study supports 
the trend we have highlighted, suggesting that 
industry gains are expected to continue to be 
supported by an ongoing shift in the product 
mix towards larger, more sophisticated boats 
and an ageing ‘Baby Boomer’ population. 
Raymarine has been well placed to take 
advantage of this move towards bigger and 
higher value boats. As the average boat 
size grows the demand for more electronics 
increases, not just because they have more 
dashboard space or because some have dual 
stations on ﬂ y-bridges, but also because 
their owners appreciate more electronic 
information and control for safety and 
enjoyment at sea. Advances in technology 
through faster processing, improved graphics 
and bigger memory chips have allowed us to 
deliver beneﬁ ts to the consumer. Raymarine’s 
products provide a comprehensive range 
of marine electronics from autopilots, radar 
and instruments to chartplotters, VHF radios, 
satellite antennas and software. 
*  Calculation of these measures is explained on page 1.
5 Raymarine Annual Report 2005  Furthermore the products interconnect and 
provide integrated solutions and enhanced 
cartography, which are easy to use. 
 
Trading
Trading continued strongly throughout the 
second half of the year with integrated 
products, particularly the E series launched in 
February, gaining in momentum as the year 
progressed. A common feature of our business 
is that products launched mid season (i.e. in 
the January to March period) often perform 
relatively better from the start of the northern 
hemisphere boating season (September 
onwards) when boats are being upgraded, 
refurbished or new models are launched. This 
pattern can continue into the second year 
of the products life cycle and especially as 
industry volumes pick up.
Dealers, by far the largest and most 
fragmented sector of our business, showed 
very signiﬁ cant increases. Business conducted 
directly with boat builders (largely in the US) 
grew by a factor greater than the average 
sales growth, but trade with US retailers 
fell back a little as they struggled with poor 
weather and a reliance on the lower end of 
the recreational market. OEM business is 
expected to continue to grow in 2006, driven 
by net new customer acquisitions. Raymarine’s 
distribution network has demonstrated the 
ability to take advantage of any change in mix 
of business as it occurs throughout the world.
Sales revenue growth was strong throughout 
the world with the UK up 21.2%, Americas 
up 15.9% in Dollar value and rest of the 
world, transacted mostly in Pounds Sterling, 
increasing business by 12.9%.
Raymarine is a leading brand with strong 
values, built upon world-wide support and 
a robust product range, that operates in a 
market that places a strong premium on 
equipment operating reliably and continually 
in the harshest of conditions. On account of 
this, our gross margins held ﬁ rm, as they have 
done over much of the company’s history.
New Products
Raymarine continues to be an industry leader 
in product development and our planning 
for new products is detailed, continual and 
relentless. We believe that our development 
process, which involves all key areas of the 
company, is one of the most vital assets of our 
business.
We launched 12 new products last year.
E series, a fully integrated and networked 
system embedding revolutionary award 
winning cartography, sold exceptionally well 
with interest and prospects growing as the 
year progressed. Consumers can see the value 
of a very comprehensive system that can 
communicate with sensors and instruments 
around the vessel and that can display in 
super high bright graphics. These graphics 
supply information such as three dimensional 
mapping, radar overlays and moving pictures 
from video cameras, whilst keeping an eye 
on speed, course and depth data. We are 
expecting stronger sales in 2006, as the 
range becomes even more widely accepted 
and as we add new features such as vessel 
identiﬁ cation and satellite weather forecasts.
We successfully introduced wireless 
instrumentation repeaters and autopilots last 
year and anticipate that demand will grow 
for these types of products as consumers 
and boat builders appreciate the value and 
convenience that this technology delivers. The 
ability to receive key information anywhere on 
the boat and the knowledge that the boat’s 
course can be altered from a simple remote 
handset will set a standard for this sector. 
Satellite TV antenna systems tap into an 
emerging and strengthening demand for 
entertainment on board. Raymarine’s 45cm 
fully automatic stabilised antennas were 
launched late in 2005 and we are pleased to 
report that early indications show that they 
too are being well accepted. Other models are 
planned for 2006.
Many new products are scheduled for launch 
in 2006. They range from replacements of, or 
additions to, very successful product ranges 
such as Raymarine’s world leading ST60+ 
instruments. These offer, in standalone or 
multi formats, information including speed, 
depth, wind, heading, temperature, rudder 
angle and compass. New systems like the 
A65, a 6.5” display chartplotter with new GPS 
antenna and digital depth sounder, appeal to 
different sectors of the market and others, like 
Raymarine’s satellite weather receiver, signal 
our entry into new areas of marine electronics.
Supply Chain
In the middle of last year we embarked on 
our biggest project since our public listing, 
outsourcing all UK manufactured Raymarine 
products. It is worth repeating the reasons 
given at the time and these are to ensure that 
we can not only maintain and grow our gross 
margins, but access the latest technologies 
and skills in supply chain management. 
A great deal of planning has gone into this 
project from training, logistics, resources and 
communication to design process, testing and 
quality parameters.
We are on track, at just over a third of the 
way into this project, most of that in the 
planning cycle, although some existing and 
new production cells have been established 
and are now up and running. By the end of 
February 2006 the bulk of the automated 
printed circuit board production has moved 
to Hungary and 6 out of 35 assembly cells are 
now in place.
Against the background of strong growth and 
sales, there remain risks ahead, both in the 
transfer of a further 29 production cells and 
the complex introduction of new products. 
However, we are very pleased so far with the 
way in which the project has been tackled in 
areas of risk management, professionalism 
and diligence. 
Raymarine Annual Report 2005 6 Not only has Flextronics (our manufacturing 
partner) been enthusiastic and keen to 
exchange knowledge, but I have been 
hugely impressed with the dedication and 
commitment of our own manufacturing, 
ﬁ nance, purchasing and engineering staff.
We expect this move to better equip us for 
the future, where product life cycles will 
shorten and customers will rely on continual 
improvements to supply and service.
People
I have immense respect and praise for our 
people during a challenging year, where they 
were responsible for not only growing our 
business signiﬁ cantly, but planning the move to 
outsource all production. I would like to thank 
everyone for their enormous effort and selﬂ ess 
approach. 
We have been faced with meeting demand 
for our products which, in many areas, has 
been greater than anticipated whilst laying 
the foundations for the move through the 
transfer of purchasing, speciﬁ cation of new 
components and training of production and 
test engineers.
Alongside this, sales and marketing, product 
management, ﬁ nance and engineering teams 
have gone about the regular business of 
promoting and marketing the company’s 
extensive product lines, whilst researching and 
preparing for the future.
Current Trading and Outlook
The industry continues to evolve. We have seen 
consolidation amongst our competitors and a 
trend towards more integrated and advanced 
systems. We see opportunities in this for 
Raymarine across wider marine markets.
The year has started encouragingly and current 
trading is in line with expectations.
 
As the group looks forward it remains 
conﬁ dent that the plans and the infrastructure 
that we have put in place will keep us ahead of 
the competition. These plans also encompass 
new ideas and concepts that will provide 
expansion within an industry that shows signs 
of maintaining growth through increasing 
wealth and a trend towards higher value, more 
sophisticated products.
7 Raymarine Annual Report 2005 
