 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
FIRST ARTIST ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
04
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S  
REVIEW
In the last year we have completed
the reshaping of First Artist
Corporation’s business following
the turmoil created by the 2002
collapses of ITV Digital in the UK
and Bertelsmann in Europe,
coupled with the EU reforms of
football player contracts and the
advent of ‘trading windows’. 
At that time our business was almost entirely focused
on football player representation, and this left us
exposed to the disappearance of vast amounts of
television money from the game.
We resisted the temptation to take the Company
back into private ownership because we felt a strong
moral obligation to our shareholders.We also firmly
believed in and started to implement a strategy for
leveraging our global reputation in football to create
a broader personality, event and wealth management
company with powerful synergies and a stable
income base.
Fast-forward to year-end 2005 and the value of 
this strategy has been clearly demonstrated. Our
acquisition programme has diluted our dependency
on football by approximately two-thirds and created a
profitable, omni-functional plc with a strong basis for
growth. Our four divisions complement one another
perfectly: the financial management business is a
second heartbeat to our businesses of sports and
entertainment representation, allowing us to offer
valuable new services to our clients; event
management provides a second income line with
good synergies to our traditional business and
exciting opportunities which will benefit from our
previous experience as one of the UK’s leading event
promoters during the nineties.
Each division benefits from a strong management
team, with the founders of our wealth management
business,ABG Financial Management, and our 
event management business,The Finishing T ouch,
remaining in full-time management roles.The success
of this integration shows in our results across the
Group, and I would like to thank all employees for
the tremendously positive way in which they have
dealt with the changes of the last few years.
2005 PERFORMANCE AND OUTLOOK
Our traditional business of player representation has
enjoyed its most successful year for several years, with
First Artist Management almost trebling its operating
profit to £1.26 million although the market
continues to be difficult and unpredictable.The
successful integration of T eam Sports Management
has added stability to our London operation and
increased our already wealthy bank of contacts and
experience through the involvement of Mel Stein,
whose contribution has proven invaluable. Our Italian
player representation business, PromoSport has reaped
the benefits of its own recent restructuring and our
developing affiliations in Germany and Spain are
further increasing our operational reach in Europe.
First Artist Entertainment has developed from a
standing start to a six-figure business in two years 
of strong organic growth and I must pay credit to
Corrinne Goodall who heads this division. It has
built on the increasing overlap between sports,
celebrity and light entertainment to develop a client
roster including Andy Gray, Martin T yler, Dennis
Taylor and Suzanne Shaw.The successful
development by Matthew Fisher of the speaker
agency within this division has provided further
opportunities for our growing portfolio of talent,
which complements well with The Finishing T ouch.
ABG Financial Management has delivered an
operating profit of £214,000 since its acquisition by
the Group, demonstrating the vitality of the business
whilst broadening the services available to clients 
of First Artist Management and First Artist
Entertainment.The changes to pension legislation
that will be introduced on 6 April 2006,‘A Day’,
have boosted the value of high-quality investment
advice and should continue to add to the appeal 
of the wealth management service going forward.
Jon Smith
Chief Executive
Officer CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
FIRST ARTIST ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
05
There is also strong potential for expansion alongside 
First Artist Management and PromoSport in Europe,
where the financial advice industry is less developed
and UK-based investments are highly valued.
The Finishing T ouch demonstrated the potential of
event management with a £76,000 profit since its
acquisition by the Group. Increased margins over
Christmas demonstrated rising demand following
several years of cutbacks in events budgets. Long-
term contracts with Accenture and the Public Sector’s
education training programme have provided a stable
income stream for the business, and there are
opportunities to gain further Public Sector 
business in 2006.
ONGOING STRATEGY
Our Group continues to be second half focused
although the recent acquisitions will reduce this
emphasis. Our acquisition programme will advance
over the next 12 months as we continue to secure
opportunities in all four of our strategic sectors,
where we can introduce genuinely complementary
skills to our existing portfolio, further broaden 
the business base of the group and reduce 
historical volatility.
Further developing our entertainment capability is a
particular priority.This is an area that offers significant
crossover to our player management business, as the
organic growth of First Artist Entertainment over the
last two years shows.This is a business we should be
in and know well, with both Phil Smith and myself
having successful roots in this industry sector. It will
definitely be targeted in the ongoing acquisition
programme.The integration of ABG Financial
Management, with its extensive list of music, media
and entertainment clients, should greatly accelerate
the development process.
Finally, I would like to extend my personal thanks to
my fellow Board members for their determination
shown in turning First Artist into a vibrant and
exciting sports and entertainment group.T o Phil
Smith and Vincenzo Morabito for producing
remarkable figures in a difficult market – “probably
the best Agents in the World” and to our finance
director, Richard Hughes, whose skill in the
acquisition market, coupled with his strong financial
management has been so vital in the turnaround 
of the Group.
Jon Smith
Chief Executive Officer 
27 January 2006
Genuine integration has been the secret of our
success in 2005 and it will continue to underpin our
business going forward. Moving The Finishing T ouch
to First Artist’s freehold Wembley offices in early 2006
will give us the opportunity to exploit the synergies
between events and our entertainment representation
business, as well as the potential for leveraging our
status as a FIFA and UEFA licensee, and the matches
and tours that this allows us to organise.The Group’s
close proximity to Wembley Stadium we believe will
also open opportunities for development in the
coming years. It is also worth noting the substantial
capital appreciation of our freehold property as its
neighbour nears completion.
I am equally delighted to welcome our new 
Non-Executive Chairman, Jarvis Astaire, OBE, who
has extensive experience and stature within the
industry and with whom I have previously worked
closely, having successfully staged NFL, NHL and
NBA UK events in the 1980s and 90s. I am just as
delighted that his predecessor,Tim Chadwick, will 
be continuing his excellent work with the financial
and investor community as Non-Executive 
Vice-Chairman.
GLOBAL EXPANSION
Jarvis’ arrival signals a new phase in the development
of First Artist Corporation, as we look to export our
successful, full-service model to new markets. Our
key challenge going forward is to maintain our
pivotal position in the global football market and to
manage the issues that will face that industry in the
next few years. Jarvis will help us to develop our
profile on a global basis, as we aim to replicate our
successes in the UK, Europe, US and Middle East.
Our increasing global profile will also increase our
potential to offer representation in other sports.
