 6 Abacus Group plc
Chief Executive’s Review
General Review
The growth in our business in 2004, particularly in the UK and
Eire, did not continue as we moved into 2005 and by the end
of our financial year the various industry association statistics
showed a market decline of 8% in the UK and Eire, 8% in the
Nordic region and 2% in Italy, creating an overall decline in the
regions in which we operate of 5.8%.
Compared to this, our overall sales decline was 5.1% and in
the UK, where we saw growth in Trident, CTL and CCS, our
overall decline was 2%, leading to a strong improvement in
our market share from 14% to 15%.
Trident performed particularly well and, despite billings on its
medical contract not meeting our expectation, as indicated 
in our July trading update, its growth in 2005 was 21%
compared to 2004.
The challenging condition in the markets we serve has
ensured that they remain extremely competitive and, in these
circumstances, it is pleasing to see that our strong focus
on gross margin before exceptionals throughout the 
Group has enabled us to improve this to 23.2% for 2005
(before exceptional items) from 22.9% in 2004. This has
allowed us to maintain the appropriate level of headcount 
to support the workloads (which did not decline) throughout
our business, and therefore to preserve our reputation for
first class service and support with both our customers
and suppliers.
Individual Company Review
We have continued to approach the component distribution
market with regional sales offices and local warehousing, 
thus distinguishing ourselves from our major competitors. 
This “local” service justifies why existing and new customers
should see the Abacus Group as their key supplier and gives
component manufacturers a strong rationale for choosing 
the Abacus Group as a strategic partner.
The non ECD businesses within the Group have performed
better in 2005 than 2004 demonstrating that, by investing in
the right areas, growth can still be achieved despite declining
markets.
Abacus Polar, the UK and Eire based component distribution
business, has seen its sales decline in line with the market.
Notwithstanding this, it has continued to focus on taking new
products to existing and new customers as a key part of its
overall strategy. This combined with the new customer
opportunities and new franchise awards that arose from the
demise of Eurodis and our subsequent purchase of its UK
business information, puts Abacus Polar in a strong position
in the UK and Eire markets as we move into 2006.
Micromark C&CD continues to approach the UK and Eire
market in a different way to Abacus Polar, thus giving
customers and suppliers a choice as to which of the Abacus
Group’s businesses they deal with; indeed some trade with
Abacus Distribution Centre
“
We start the new year with clear signs of stability in all the areas in which we operate and with our UK
and Eire market share improved to 15%. These are sound foundations on which to build our business and
with the growth opportunities created by our investment in Trident and TDC outside of the UK combined
with new customer and franchise opportunities for our UK and Eire component distribution businesses, 
we enter 2006 with a sense of confidence.
” Abacus Group plc 7
both, based on their own individual requirements. We believe
that the size of the UK and Eire market, just under £1billion
based on AFDEC statistics, supports this strategy. Micromark
C&CD is also seeing benefits from the demise of Eurodis.
Promax, our Nordic component distribution business,
continues to have a good position in the Danish market, 
with just over 5% market share based on Europartners 2005
report, but has less in the other markets. A strategic review of
our business and the individual markets’ performance resulted
in us taking the decision in Quarter 4 to close our operation
in Finland and reduce our overall headcount to reflect the
expected sales level. During the year, the UK based IT
platform introduced at the end of 2004 has resulted in an
improved gross margin and this combined with the lower
overhead and the introduction of new franchises in the
wireless module area puts Promax in a much improved
position to produce a more satisfactory result in 2006.
ECC, our Italian component distribution business, has seen
its share fall to 3.4% in a market that has only declined by
2% but despite this it has remained profitable and we are
therefore able to invest to strengthen it for the future. This
investment is in the form of products in identified growth areas
such as wireless modules and displays (in conjunction with
Trident) together with the appropriate relevant technically
qualified personnel to support both existing and new
customers. We are confident that ECC can continue to 
build on its good position in the Italian market which, based
on Europartners 2005 report, places it fifth.
TDC, our UK and Eire based distributor of components for the
wireless and wired communications area, which was acquired
in 2004 has met the expectations set for it in this niche market
which we believe offers growth potential. As with all new
products, the market expectation of price is one of less rather
than more, as products mature, and this has been the case
with TDC where average selling prices have fallen by 15%
during 2nd half 2005 compared to 1st half 2005. However,
over the same period sales have remained level and TDC
continues to bring new opportunities to the Group not only 
in the UK and Eire but in Nordic and Italy as we expand the
franchise coverage into these regions.
Trident, our display and system build business, has performed
well despite the lower than expected billing against its major
medical contract and its sales grew by 21% in 2005. We have
continued to expand coverage outside of the UK and Eire
and, in particular, enhanced its Nordic operation at the end 
of 2005 by employing ex Eurodis personnel who brought with
Customer Sectors
Power 2.4%
Contract Manufacturing (Global) 2.1%
Defence 1.7%
Automotive  1.6%
Consumer  1.6%
Lighting 1.4%
Avionics 1.24%
Navigation 1.2%
Thermoregulation 0.4%
Others 1.6%
Contract Manufacturing (Local) 30.7%
Ind Control 13.8%
Instrumentation 8.7%
Fire & Security 8.0%
Printer Peripheral 5.6%
Comms 5.5%
Audio Visual 5.16%
Medical 4.3%
Distribution 3.0% them excellent product and customer knowledge. We have
also employed additional personnel in Italy and Benelux and
this build up of staff, combined with good franchise support,
puts Trident in a strong position as we move into 2006.
CTL and CCS, our electro-mechanical assembly businesses
focused on the UK markets, both saw growth in 2005 despite
the competitive nature of the market in which they operate.
Their key strength is to offer a very flexible lead time on
manufacturing for those customers who have consistently
changing demand patterns. We believe this fits well
with companies which wish to keep manufacturing local
but at the same time seek to outsource all or part of their
own production.
Dubilier, our ‘own brand’ component business which has 
the majority of its sales in the UK, Eire and Nordic region,
continued to see the average selling price of its passive
products fall by a further 6% in 2005 over 2004. These
products now represent less than 80% of the total sales of
Dubilier as we continue to introduce new products particularly
in the Electromechanical area. The challenge for 2006 is to
continue to introduce ‘non passive’ products and expand the
geographical sales coverage, both of which may well be
assisted by the acquisition strategy for our component
distribution business.
Outlook
One of the challenges we face as a component distributor
serving the European market is to address the migration of
manufacturing from established markets to those offering a
reduced cost base such as the former Eastern European
countries and Asia Pacific, particularly China. A number of
these customers prefer to manage the supply chain in the
country where they are based and today we ship directly to
these developing regions from the UK for such customers.
However, we recognise the need to offer a level of local
support in the country of manufacture and will from the
beginning of 2006 open an office in Hong Kong to supervise
Asia Pacific shipments. Also we have formed a commercial
alliance with a local distribution company in Poland to sell
direct to Abacus customers located there.
We start the new year with clear signs of stability in all the
areas in which we operate and with our UK and Eire market
share improved to 15%. These are sound foundations on
which to build our business and with the growth opportunities
created by our investment in Trident and TDC outside of the
UK combined with new customer and franchise opportunities
for our UK and Eire component distribution businesses, we
enter 2006 with a sense of confidence. Our objective for the
Group is to achieve an acceptable return based on a solid
performance in challenging markets where sales will be
achieved by providing an excellent service, combined with 
the identification of new products and market areas.
We also look forward to the opportunity to integrate Deltron
into the Abacus Group which we believe will strengthen our
relationship with both customers and suppliers and create 
an even stronger base on which to build.
Martin Kent
Chief Executive Officer
22 November 2005
8 Abacus Group plc
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
Trident supply ZEVO Smart Terminals for 
NHS Patient Power Project
