 red24
Annual report & accounts for the year ended 31 March 2013
four
The group is organised into two segments, security assistance and business support,  
in which we use our business model to provide services to our clients.
Business model
The red24 business model has been developed in the security industry to provide assistance 
to individuals and organisations in managing their security risks. Assistance is provided on 
an escalating basis as threats develop:
Advice Support Response
This model enables the group to add value to clients enabling 
them to select the level of assistance they wish to embed 
in their own product and the level they wish to buy in on an 
ad hoc basis. Within the security industry this approach has 
enabled us to sustain margins as the business has expanded
and has led to opportunities to utilise the model to develop 
other business support services to clients. Security 
management training for the extractive industries and product 
safety assistance to the food industry, have been particular 
fields of success.
CHIEF ExECUTIVE’S REVIEW
2012 2013
£4,667k
£2,101k
£4,402k
Turnover:
Segments Key:
£1,282k
£1,399k
£1,986k
£106k
£1,046k
£568k
£1,519k
£2,315k
£953k
£1,148k
£1,152k
Business Support
Training
red24assist
Security
Volume Mandatory
Insurance 
Response Security Assistance
This segment comprises our global security service which 
provides preventative and reactive advice to help individuals 
and businesses avoid and manage personal risks to 
themselves, their staff and their families.
In addition to the advisory and support services which we 
provide on a volume mandatory basis to clients of HSBC and 
AIG, we also act as the designated adviser to a number of 
insurance companies who insure against special security risks. 
In this segment it is usual to find that 80% of the revenues
are fixed and approximately 20% derive from incidents for 
which a response is required. This adds greatly to the forward 
visibility of the business, particularly as most of these revenues 
are contracted for a period of three years at a time. We are 
particularly pleased that our contract with HSBC has been 
renewed for a further three years and now runs until 2017.
The day to day operation of the service is based in our Crisis 
Response Management Centre in Cape Town, which houses 
some 60 staff who provide security analysis and advice, 
customer service, response co-ordination and IT. This cost is 
largely fixed and supported by the contracted revenues.
Response work is inherently less predictable and generally 
involves the use of independent consultants, most of whom 
are trusted freelancers, but in some categories of business 
retained consultants are engaged. Although there were no 
major “headline” incidents this year we continued to be active, 
particularly in Africa and the Middle East.
In January we published our Threat Forecast 2013, which is 
available on our website www.red24.com and which itself has 
been significantly enhanced.
With the launch of our red24Assist service in late 2011 as 
a much enhanced offering in the product contamination 
insurance markets, we decided to include this product in 
the business support segment rather than security. Our old 
product contamination service was included in this segment 
and the migration of clients to the new service has been 
responsible for the fall in segment revenues, without which 
there would have been 2% growth in the year. Net margins 
have been maintained despite the fixed nature of the revenues 
and the impact of South African inflation on the cost base; this 
is largely due to the Rand declining over the course of the year 
to offset that impact. Acquisition of the premises helps to fix 
the cost of our second largest overhead.
Looking forward we are pleased that almost all clients are 
renewing when the time comes; albeit sometimes at lower 
income levels if their own revenues have not reached their 
expectations. We continue to attract new clients and are 
pleased to have attracted insurers from continental Europe 
and also our first credit card issuer. We anticipate that these 
developments will restore actual top line growth to this segment.
Business Support
This segment comprises the Arc Training International 
Academy for Security Management, our product safety 
advisory service, red24Assist, our environmental advisory 
service, green24, and a new cyber crime product.
Arc Training is one of the UK’s leading providers of security 
management training courses and one of the best-known 
international security management training companies in 
the world. The courses offer a range of qualifications and 
education for full-time security professionals and for managers 
for whom security is one of their key responsibilities. Each year 
a published programme of courses, open to all, is run in the 
UK and, increasingly overseas where they may be branded 
as Arc courses or be run in conjunction with local training 
partners. Revenues from this business grew by 9.5% in the 
year and again exceeded £1m.
As we anticipated, the passing of the Food Safety 
Modernization Act in the United States has introduced 
significant legislative requirements across the food industry 
in that country. This is a significant opportunity to use our 
business model to grow a business, almost from scratch, 
which is supported by teams of food specialists in the United 
States and in Europe, and by our website. Revenues fell just 
short of £1m, a significant increase on the £360k of revenue 
produced by the earlier product contamination service.
five
CHIEF ExECUTIVE’S REVIEW
red24
Annual report & accounts for the year ended 31 March 2013 red24
Annual report & accounts for the year ended 31 March 2013
six
Whilst our environmental service has failed to produce 
stand alone revenues, the web based advice has been well 
received and is becoming a desired part of our overall offering, 
particularly red24Assist.
We see an opportunity to use our business model to develop a 
cyber-crime service to support insurers in the UK and this went 
live with our first insurer in April 2013. In the US roughly 50% of
businesses insure against cyber-crime, in the UK this 
percentage is 5% or less and we believe this will increase in 
the next few years as awareness of the issue grows. 
Overall revenues in this segment grew by 82%, of which 10% 
came from the training business and the rest from red24Assist. 
Increasing the breadth of the business support offering has 
led to improved margins, but they are still lower than those in 
security where there is a higher fixed cost base.
To date the group has been able to expand organically by 
recruiting appropriate specialists in the desired fields without 
the need for acquisitions. However the Board is mindful that 
acquisition remains an additional avenue to growth and, 
particularly in overseas markets, may be a more effective 
means of achieving growth.
Expansion in areas outside our reporting currency is affected 
by exchange rate movements. Almost half our revenue is now 
denominated in US dollars, even where our clients are the UK 
arm of US insurers, whereas 47% of our costs are incurred 
in rand. The Board are seeking to increase the proportion of 
costs that are incurred in US dollars and endeavouring to find 
sources of rand revenues. However exchange rate movements 
are influenced by many complex factors and the Board 
continues to believe that, although we do work to minimise the 
adverse impact, it is neither practical nor desirable to hedge 
these risks fully.
Maldwyn Worsley-Tonks
Chief Executive
10 June 2013
CHIEF ExECUTIVE’S REVIEW
