 red24
Annual report & accounts for the year ended 31 March 2013
three
Introduction
I am pleased to present our annual report for the year ended  
31 March 2013.
Financial Overview
The business continues to grow in line with our expectations. 
Revenue has increased by 11.8% to £6,503,265 from 
£5,819,328 achieved last year. All of this growth has been 
achieved organically. Profit before tax of £940,104 is an increase 
of 8.9% on the previous year’s £863,093.
This profits growth has not flowed through to a corresponding 
increase in earnings per share as the tax charge has risen to 
19.4% from 13.5% last year and just 2.4% the previous year. 
This reflects the steady utilisation of our tax losses. The tax 
charge is likely to increase only modestly in the coming year, so 
that growth in profits will flow through to earnings per share.
The net assets per share continue to increase and are now 
6.4p per share up from 5.2p last year. In January 2013 we 
completed the purchase of the building housing our Crisis 
Response Management Centre in Cape Town. Slightly over half 
the purchase price was funded by a local bank loan and the rest 
provided from our available cash. Despite this, and payment 
of UK corporation tax for the first time, our available cash has 
scarcely declined.
The dividend paid to shareholders in January this year  
increased to 0.40p per share from 0.32p, which is almost four 
times covered by earnings. The Board remain committed to a 
progressive dividend policy and have decided to recommend to 
shareholders that a final dividend of 0.20p be paid. The intention 
is that this will be paid in September and that the payment of the 
interim dividend for 2014 will be pushed back to March.
The Board are pleased to note that the average share price in 
the year was 12.71p compared to 11.47p in the previous year 
and just 8.76p in the year before that, and believe this reflects 
the Board’s commitment to the sustainable long term growth of 
the business.
Outlook
We have worked hard to build up a reputation with well 
established clients for high quality work and we see future 
growth both from our existing services and also from the 
addition of other services that are likely to be of assistance to 
those clients.
The work of the past few years is now showing through in the 
group’s financial performance and this is in turn being reflected 
more closely in the share price. Although there are risks to any 
business and these are considered in the Directors’ Report, the 
Board feel encouraged by the progress of the last year and are 
confident of further progress to come.
Staff
Our staff are absolutely crucial to the quality of service provided 
and to creating an environment where we can attract good 
quality people who want to come to work for us. The Board are 
most grateful to all the staff for their hard work and are gratified 
that so many of them are choosing to build their careers with  
the group.
Simon Richards
Chairman
10 June 2013
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
