 4 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Robert B Jones Chairman 
Redrow has had a record
year, with profit before tax
exceeding the significant
milepost of £100m.
Redrow has had a record year, with profit before tax
exceeding the significant milepost of £100m. Our 
confidence in the full year’s profitability at the time of our
interim results has been confirmed with profit before tax 
of £106.1m and as a consequence it is proposed that the
23.8% increase in the interim dividend will be matched by 
a corresponding increase in the final dividend. Without
the support, skills and commitment of our employees, 
sub-contractors and suppliers, this would not have been 
possible and we are grateful to them for their contribution
in achieving these results.
The Board remains firmly of the view that delivering
increasing shareholder value should be the business’s core
strategy and once again I can report strong progress in this
regard. In addition to the increased dividend, earnings per
share have increased this year by 21.8%.
The key drivers in generating such returns continue to be
our determination to generate margins and return on 
capital employed at the upper end of our industry’s 
performance. Operating margins within Redrow Homes
have increased during the year reaching 19.0% in the 
second half to yield an annual margin of 18.7%, compared
with 17.6% last year. Our return on capital employed has
also risen to 31% for the year. This efficient and prudent
management of our capital has enabled us to invest further
in our owned land bank and in increasingly complex city
centre and mixed use schemes without any significant
change in our level of borrowings. Indeed the Group’s 
gearing has fallen further from 39.0% to 30.9%.
Building high quality homes for a broad range of 
customers continues to be the central focus of the 
business. The Homes Division’s record year has taken  completions to 4,031, at an average selling price of
£147,900, generating a turnover approaching £600m. 
The location, pricing and styling of these homes continue
to be balanced across the Group, to avoid excessive 
exposure to particular markets. Since 2000 we have 
implemented a number of measures aimed at developing
the synergies between the various ranges of our products,
culminating in the recent announcement of a new 
housing range. Our markets are the theatres of substantial
change, economically, socially and in terms of planning
policy. It is therefore appropriate that we should be 
committed to a process of continuous refinement in what 
we have to offer, harnessing together the individuality of
development tailored to its location and seeking the benefits
of consistent elements within those developments, to generate
further improvements in build quality and efficiency.
Such an approach depends both on people and build processes
and in both regards there have been significant initiatives aimed
at underpinning the quality and reputation of the Company. 
5
Left 
Bewick Court, Compton, Wolverhampton
Centre 
51,000 sq. ft. distribution warehouse at Western Approach, Severnside, Bristol
Right 
Northcroft Lodge, Cheltenham
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 6 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Our joint venture with Corus, Framing Solutions, is aimed
at securing the efficiency and quality of system building
without losing the traditional feel of our developments. 
I am pleased to report that the joint venture is performing
in line with expectations and early developments within
the Group justify the confidence we have in its part of our
future. Equally, competent, well-trained and effective 
people lie at the heart of our achievements. Significantly
we have now invested in a new training centre at Tamworth,
which will enable a wide range of courses to be provided,
ensuring that our employees are equipped to continue to
play their part in driving the business forward.
In recognition of the contribution of all employees to the 
performance of Redrow we have widened our bonus
scheme arrangements to now embrace all employees. In
addition we have further strengthened the Executive team
with the appointment of Neil Fitzsimmons to the position
of Group Managing Director with David Arnold becoming
our new Group Finance Director. Rhiannon Walker
stepped down from the role of Company Secretary after 
sixteen years and has been succeeded by Graham Cope.
Bob Williams will also be standing down as a 
Non-Executive Director at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting on 5 November. May I take this 
opportunity to thank both Rhiannon and Bob for their
important contribution to Redrow over the years.
Land continues to be what we regard as our ‘Crown Jewels’.
Within an increasingly complex planning system, 
bedevilled by delays at every stage, there is undoubtedly
a premium for those most able to work within it. Redrow
prides itself on anticipating, rather than following, 
developments in planning policy. We were pioneers in
mixed use developments, the more efficient use of land
through higher density schemes and were significant
brownfield developers long before such approaches became
fashionable. We have also benefited immensely from 
our attention to forward land. As a result, our first class
land and planning teams continue to deliver excellent
opportunities. Our current land bank with planning has
now risen to 14,000 plots with a further 2,000 plots under
contract at various stages in the planning system and over
8,000 plots allocated in draft or adopted local plans.
Of importance in the continued growth of Redrow is our
Commercial operation, which in addition to contributing
£3.0m of operating profit this year, ensures that we have
the necessary expertise to project manage the complex
In the City schemes and identify mixed use and change of
use land opportunities. Looking forward, Redrow is in an excellent position.
Forward sales have increased to £304m, a rise of 39.4%.
Redrow owns or controls all the land required for 
development in the next two years, and a very substantial
proportion of that required for three years time. Our
products continue to be valued by our very varied base 
of customers and we have implemented changes in staff
training and in building methods, which will underpin
both our quality and our control of developments. Against
a background of a stable housing market, a continuing 
under-supply of new homes and pent-up aspiration to home
ownership, I remain confident that Redrow will go from
strength to strength.
Robert B Jones Chairman
7
Far left Abbots Wynd, Falkirk
Centre Stonemead, Stalybridge
Left Odyssey, London Docklands
Right The Courtyard, Widnes
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
