 I am pleased to report a highly successful year for Redrow.
When the share buy-back took place in October 2000, the
Board highlighted its focus on delivering increased shareholder
value. I am therefore delighted to report further strong 
growth in earnings per share of 34%. Part of this increase
reflects the capital restructuring but the greater part is the 
consequence of the strong financial and operational 
performance of the business.
Redrow’s financial strength is demonstrated by two key 
measures, its margins and its return on capital employed. Both
are at the top of our industry’s range. This year the operating
margin within the Homes Division was 17.6%, a considerable
achievement and one which the Board regards as sustainable in
the current markets. Equally, the return on capital employed at
30% continues to reflect the emphasis we place on the efficient
use of capital. The increased volume of the business, generated
both within the existing Redrow companies and from the 
acquisition of Tay Homes, has enabled us to grow operating
profits before integration costs relating to the acquisition by
24% from £79.5m to £98.4m. I am therefore glad to report that
once again the Board is able to recommend increasing the 
dividend by 10%, maintaining the progressive dividend policy
since flotation. 
Sustaining profitable growth is one of the key objectives of the
Board and we have therefore taken a number of important steps
aimed at underpinning the continuation of our successful 
performance. Firstly, Tay Homes was acquired in January this
year which established critical mass in two operating areas,
Yorkshire and Scotland, enabling us to bring them closer to
maturity faster than would otherwise have been possible. The
acquisition also brought useful new opportunities in the
Midlands. The purchase was almost entirely funded out of cash
generated by selling a number of successful developments by
Redrow’s commercial arm, which generated turnover of £30.2m
and an operating profit of £3.1m this year. As a result I can not
only report that gearing of the Company as a whole fell from
60% at the start of the year to 42% at the half-year end but that
there has been a further fall to 39% at the end of the second
half. The Company remains strongly cash generative while
gearing reflects a prudent balance between leveraging our 
Shareholders’ funds and maintaining an appropriately cautious
approach to debt.
4 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Robert Jones Chairman 
I am pleased to report a highly successful 
year for Redrow. Secondly, building techniques throughout the industry
have failed to change sufficiently to reflect the problems
the country faces as a result of shortages of certain skilled
trade workers. After careful consideration of alternative 
solutions and pilot schemes using timber-frame and light 
steel-frame methods, as well as modular construction, Redrow
has decided that the benefits from the use of light steel-frame 
warrant the establishment of a joint venture for their 
manufacture. This joint venture with Corus brings together 
our expertise in residential development with their skills in steel
manufacture and application. Both companies are investing into
a stand-alone joint venture company the equivalent of up
to £3.0m. We anticipate that the utilisation of light steel 
frames will benefit the Company in terms of build times and
quality resulting in improved customer satisfaction.
5 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Above
Masterton Park, Dunfermline, Scotland
Centre
Odyssey, London Docklands
Right
Optima, the 27,000 sq.ft. office development,
St.David’s Park, Flintshire Two other areas are critical to the sustainability of the business;
land and people. Redrow has consistently anticipated changes 
in the planning system. By placing emphasis on the
Government’s aims of sustainability and increased densities, our
land acquisition programme has brought substantial financial
benefits. I am therefore pleased to report a further increase in
our current land bank from 14,300 plots to 15,600 plots. This
means that the vast majority of land we will develop in the next
three years is already owned or controlled by the Company.
Much of this is brownfield land which currently represents 69%
of our land bank. Beyond that, there are approximately 25,000
plots within our forward land bank which have a realistic
prospect of securing planning permission in the future.
Our workforce at every level is highly skilled and dedicated to
the success of the Company. However, such skills require 
continuous honing and updating and we continue to dedicate
considerable resources to training. Redrow aims to build its
strength in people not only through internal promotions but
also from external sources and I am particularly pleased to 
welcome those members of Tay’s staff who have joined Redrow
and whose contribution is proving highly beneficial.  Two new
members of the Main Board have joined us this year.  
John Tutte joined the Company as a regional chairman in the
South in January and brings with him a wealth of experience of
our industry. In July he was appointed to the Board reflecting 
his significant contribution during his short tenure with the
Company. Brian Duckworth joins us as a non-executive director
and will bring his significant experience of business in general to
the Board.
It is always gratifying that so many people comment favourably
on the quality and range of our developments, varying as they
do from stylish inner city apartments to refurbished buildings
and from traditional family properties to attractive new design
schemes. There is indeed a home for every type of customer
within our range. As in recent years, Redrow has secured a 
significant number of awards but what is particularly pleasing is
that in addition to this public recognition of the quality of our
homes, many of our customers recommend us to their friends
and relatives or move from one Redrow home to another.
6 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Above
Lansdowne Gardens, Leckwith, Cardiff 7 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
For the future, our industry is not being permitted 
to build more than three-quarters of the minimum 
number of homes estimated to be necessary as a result 
of demographic change and the deterioration of older 
housing stock. Inevitably therefore, whilst there is 
house-price inflation, affordability remains good as a 
result of low interest rates. On the basis of our belief that 
the housing market remains sound, we can be confident that
Redrow has an excellent future since our high quality products,
low cost current land bank and focused management team are
the very essence of sustainability in our industry.
Robert Jones Chairman
Above
Fedden Village, Portishead, Bristol
Centre
Guinea Hall Farm, Southport, Lancashire
Right
The Maltings, Braintree, Essex
