 Our corporate philosophy is to deliver long term sustainable
growth and by so doing deliver value to our Shareholders. The
results for the last twelve months represent our continuing 
commitment to that philosophy. Earnings per share have
increased to 38.5p representing compound growth over the last
five years of 30% p.a. This has been achieved through a 
combination of growth in operating profits which, over that
period, have increased from £35.4m to £94.1m and the 
successful share buy-back effected in October 2000.
Our focus on high quality financial returns is equally reflected
within these results. Return on capital employed, having 
averaged 28% for the last five years, has increased in the current
year to 30% whilst operating margins within the Homes
Division pre-integration costs are at 17.6%. The combination 
of these financial returns represents one of the 
strongest performances within our sector.
Although the trading fundamentals for the U.K. housing market
remain sound, the number of new homes constructed by our
industry is at its lowest level since 1924. This is principally 
due to restrictive planning policies which have constrained the
new homes industry for a number of years. The recent
announcements by the Government to tackle the growing 
housing shortage are to be welcomed. However these
‘announcements’ must be turned into ‘actions’. For the new
homes industry to respond and at the same time address the
issues arising from skilled labour trade shortages, it is important
to embrace ‘new’ construction practices to facilitate increased
output whilst improving build quality and speed. After 
undertaking extensive research and trials we announced in 
July 2002 the formation with Corus plc of a joint venture 
company, Framing Solutions plc.  
8 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Paul L Pedley Chief Executive 
Redrow’s financial returns represent one of the
strongest within our sector. 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Framing Solutions has been funded by an equity 
investment from both parties of up to £3.0m each and 
will harness Corus’ manufacturing skills with Redrow’s
development expertise to provide light steel frames, a viable
and sustainable solution primarily targeted at the U.K. 
residential market.  Initially, light steel frames will be introduced
on selected Harwood and ‘Design Scheme’ developments across
the country.
The last twelve months have been a period of significant
achievement, with Redrow continuing to recognise its
responsibilities to its shareholders, its customers and the 
broader community.
Above
The Beaufort housetype from the Heritage Range
Centre
Chapel Green, Great Notley, Essex
Right
Homes at Parc Victoria, Ebbw Vale, constructed 
with the new steel-frame system
Left
Holland Park, Walton-le-Dale, Lancashire 10 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
REDROW HOMES
Above
Ellerslie, Rusholme, Manchester
Redrow Homes has again reported record
results with operating profit increasing by 
20% to £89.5m.
Right
The Orchids, Great Notley, Essex
Far right 
Meadow Walk, Tattenhall, Cheshire
Over the last 20 years, Redrow Homes has been firmly 
established as a major developer of new homes. Our growth and
success have been founded on three core strengths, namely:-
• An excellent management team with a style and culture 
unique to Redrow
•A long term land policy which has delivered a substantial 
low cost land bank 
• An outstanding product portfolio combined with a clear 
focus on customer care
These strengths have historically served the Division well and
will continue to form the basis for continued organic growth.
To expand our opportunities for growth, the decision was taken
during the year to divide the existing operation in the South
East into two separate trading companies, Redrow Homes
(Eastern) and Redrow Homes (South East). The former will
trade from the existing office at Waltham Cross and focus on
the area north of the Thames, whilst the latter has been 
established at a new office at Maidstone with a focus south of
the Thames.
The acquisition of Tay Homes in January 2002 provided an
opportunity to enhance our organic growth. Through the 
acquisition, our land bank was increased by approximately 1,400
plots thereby facilitating an expansion of the Group’s operations
in both Yorkshire and Scotland whilst providing additional
trading outlets within the Midlands. The rebranding of 
developments, together with the replanning of sites where 
appropriate, has been smoothly achieved whilst the retained 
Tay Homes staff have been welcomed into their respective
Redrow teams.
Redrow Homes has again reported record results with turnover
increasing by 21.8% to £506.9m and operating profit by 20% 
to £89.5m. These results were secured from 3,573 legal 
completions, with an average selling price of £141,900, an
18.1% increase on last year, reflecting in part the increased 
contribution from the Southern and Western Regions and from
In the City schemes. 
The legal completion profile of the Heritage, Harwood and 
In the City brands was broadly in balance between the first and
second halves with 1,728 and 1,845 legal completions 
respectively. In addition the Tay Homes’ developments 
delivered a further 335 legal completions in the second half
with an average selling price of £108,100. 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 12 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Above 
Apartments from the Harwood Range at
Litherland, Liverpool
Below
A computer generated image of Jupiter,
the mixed use ‘In The City’ scheme,
Birmingham
During the year Redrow Homes has continued to expand its
market share. Sales reservations have increased by 9.1% in 
volume and by 22.0% in value. As a result, having allowed for
the forward sales within Tay Homes at the time of acquisition,
the Division ended the year with a record forward sales position
of 1,526 units, having a sales value of £218.0m, 23.9% ahead of
the record levels of last year.
Cost pressures within the industry have increased over the last
twelve months. Whilst material price increases have been 
controlled in line with inflation, on-going trade shortages have
resulted in more significant cost increases of between 5% and
10% for some labour trades. In addition, the ever-increasing 
burden of building regulations and the various tax increases
imposed by central Government have together increased the
cost base within our industry.
Operating margins within Redrow Homes were 17.7% as 
compared with 17.9% last year. This reduction was due to the
reduced contribution from the Heritage brand, which derives 
the greatest benefit from the enhanced margins emanating from
land acquired through the forward land bank.
Tay Homes delivered an operating margin of 16.0% largely
reflecting the profitability of the developments at the time of
acquisition.  Subsequently, the adoption of the Redrow product
portfolio combined with identified cost savings will bring the
operating margin more in line with Redrow Homes.
I referred last year to ‘the Redrow philosophy of “in-house expertise”
with the formation of a centralised Health and Safety Function’.
The development of this corporate responsibility has been, and
will continue to be, an integral part of our management culture
with all health and safety issues considered and controlled on a
more cohesive basis. During the year, this philosophy has been
extended to the creation of a centralised Research and
Development team. This team is charged with identifying 
and evaluating new construction techniques and products.  
It has also been instrumental in the co-ordination and 
reassessment of previously undertaken research and the 
management of further tests which resulted in the decision 
to form the joint venture company, Framing Solutions. 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
REGIONAL 
PERFORMANCE 
The Northern Region delivered 1,621 legal completions, as
compared with 1,695 in the previous year, representing 45.4% of
the Redrow Homes completions. The average selling price
increased by 14.9% to £122,900 to yield an overall increase in
turnover of 9.8%. In addition 267 legal completions were
secured from the Tay Homes’ developments at an average selling
price of £94,100.
The Southern Region achieved 1,050 legal completions, an
increase on the previous year of 7.4% and representing 29.4% of
the total completions of Redrow Homes.  The average selling
price increased by 19.7% to £171,300 to give an overall increase
in turnover of 28.5%. A further 68 legal completions were
secured from the Tay Homes’ developments at an average selling
price of £163,000.  
The Western Region continued to make significant progress
with legal completions increasing by 14.2% to 902 units and the
average selling price by 17.8% to £141,500. As a result, 
turnover increased by 34.5% to £127.6m.
Right
The Maltings, Braintree, Essex
Far right
Brindley Point, Birmingham City Centre The last twelve months have witnessed the continuing 
development of the Redrow portfolio. The decision to allow
each subsidiary company full access to the Heritage, Harwood,
Renaissance and In the City brands has been a major factor in the
continuing development of the Homes Division and has greatly
extended the product offering within each subsidiary company.
Our ability to offer our customers a variety of choice both in
terms of product and lifestyle has been, and will continue to be,
a major factor in their decision to acquire a new Redrow home
and is the cornerstone of our recently launched advertising 
campaign on digital TV.
Our recognition of increasing customer expectations and 
changing lifestyles resulted in the introduction of the new
Sapphire and Emerald specifications for the Heritage Range,
which last year represented 67% of our legal completions and
had an average selling price of £152,400. The importance of
individual customer lifestyles is further recognised through our
highly successful ‘Design Schemes’ which create community
environments whilst embracing current planning criteria.
Over the last two years the Harwood brand has been extended
from its origins in the North West and the West Midlands to
represent an increasingly significant element of the Division’s
portfolio in Scotland, Yorkshire, South West and South Wales.
These stylish and contemporary homes, which had an average 
selling price in the year of £81,800, now account for 20% of
legal completions.  Further, as the majority of the Tay Homes’
developments in Yorkshire and Scotland were more suited to the
Harwood Range, it is anticipated that its contribution will
increase significantly in the new financial year.
Within Heritage and Harwood, Renaissance represents a further
opportunity for customer choice through the careful restoration
of historic buildings. In addition many refurbishment schemes
provide major opportunities for new build development. 
A prime example is the former Victorian hospital at Pen-y-Fal,
Abergavenny. This historic building has been refurbished to 
provide 63 luxury apartments complemented by a Heritage
development of 110 apartments and houses within the grounds.
In the City developments contributed 13% of legal 
completions, with an average selling price in the year of
£181,100. The schemes at ‘51˚02’ in Bristol, Rigarossa in
Cardiff, Brindley Point in Birmingham and Park Wharf in
Nottingham are now complete. Odyssey in London and
Whitworthwest in Manchester continue to progress successfully
and in the new financial year will be complemented by 
additional developments, Jupiter in Birmingham and Velocity 
in Leeds.
14 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
THE REDROW BRANDS
Above 
Parc Pen-y-Fal, Abergavenney, 
South Wales
The last twelve months have witnessed the 
continuing development of the Redrow portfolio.   15 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Above 
Kitchen from the Sapphire specification
Centre
Dicken’s Heath, Solihull
Right
Bathroom from the Emerald specification 16 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
One of the fundamental strengths of Redrow remains its long
term land policy which has delivered a substantial low cost 
land bank.
Over the last twelve months, the current land bank has
increased substantially from 14,300 plots to 15,600 plots 
representing, on an historic basis, a four year land supply.  
As a result of significant planning successes during the year,
13,400 of these plots have the benefit of a planning consent, an
increase on the previous year of 2,100 plots. The balance are
held under contract awaiting, in the vast majority of cases, the
grant of a satisfactory planning consent.
During the year, the Homes Division acquired 6,000 plots for a
total consideration of £136.3m, representing an average plot
cost of £22,700. This included the 1,400 plots secured on the
acquisition of Tay Homes.  At the financial year end, the 
average plot cost has increased marginally from £20,900 to
£21,200, but expressed as a percentage of annual historic sales
price, continues to reflect its downward trend, reducing from
18.5% in 1998 to 15.3% for the current year. The quality of the
current land bank provides inherent support to the Homes
Division in delivering future sustainable profitability.
Above
Schooners Creek, Colchester
DEVELOPING A SUSTAINABLE
17,500
15,000
12,500
10,000
7,500
5,000
2,500
0
Land under contract
Land with planning consent
Over the last twelve months, the current 
land bank has increased substantially to
15,600 plots. 
Current Land Bank
1998
11,700
9,200
1999
3,300
12,300
9,000
2001
3,000
14,300
11,300
2002
2,200
15,600
13,400
2000
3,300
10,200
13,500
2,500 Despite the uncertainty within the planning 
process following the publication of the Planning 
Green Papers in November 2001, and more recently
through the Ministerial reshuffle, forward land has 
contributed 1,150 plots to the current land bank during 
the year. At the year end the forward land bank stood at 
approximately 25,000 plots but of particular significance
is the number of plots allocated in either draft or adopted local
plans. Despite the contribution to the current land bank during
the year, these allocations have been maintained at over 8,000
plots, representing in excess of 30% of the forward land bank.
These allocations include 750 plots at Bracknell where we have
recently secured planning consent subject to the completion of  
a planning gain agreement. This major development in a 
strategically important location will provide a backbone for 
Redrow Homes (Southern) for a considerable number of years.
FUTURE
17 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Above
Dicken’s Heath, Solihull
Centre
Aerial view of the 400 acre mixed use brownfield site at
Buckshaw Village, near Chorley
Right
The Willow/Hornbeam housetype combination from the
Harwood Range The results for Redrow Commercial reflect a turnover of £30.2m
and an operating profit of £3.1m. These results were secured
from the investment sale of the 138,500 sq. ft. office 
development at Windsor Office Park, fully let to Centrica plc,
the investment sale of the 26,000 sq. ft. office and 6,000 sq. ft.
trade warehouse at Altrincham, Manchester, fully let to ICI plc,
and the freehold sale of the 8,000 sq. ft. office development at
Wakefield to ICM Computer Group plc. These sales secured the
appropriate level of profitability within Redrow Commercial 
and provided the finance to enable the Group to acquire 
Tay Homes without any significant increase in gearing.
In last year’s review, I detailed the changes within the 
management team enabling the structure within Redrow
Commercial to mirror that of the Homes Division. These
changes have given the Group the ability to focus successfully
on mixed use developments. In addition, the extensive project
management skills within Redrow Commercial have been 
harnessed to provide the appropriate controls on all In the City
schemes undertaken throughout the Group.  
Buckshaw Village in Chorley, Lancashire, exemplifies the 
success of the Group’s mixed use philosophy.  During the year
the extensive remediation works to the initial phase have been
completed, and detailed planning consent secured for the major
infrastructure works together with the first phase of the 
commercial development. In March 2002 development of this
400 acre mixed use scheme commenced on site and has already
generated significant commercial interest.
Our mixed use philosophy has also proved successful at
Whitworthwest in Manchester. The ground floor retail space
within this highly successful 224 residential apartment scheme
has been pre-let to Sainsbury’s Supermarkets Ltd and, subject to
market conditions at the time, the resulting investment will be
marketed for sale during the new financial year.
18 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
REDROW COMMERCIAL
Above
Aerial view of Western Approach,
Severnside, Bristol
The new structure within Redrow Commercial 
provides the Group with the ability to focus  
successfully on mixed use developments. I reported last year the land sale at Western Approach,
Severnside to Next plc for a 100,000 sq. ft. distribution 
facility.  This facility is now construction complete and the
activity on site has resulted in an increase in enquiries and 
in particular a pre-let to MacFarlane Group U.K. Ltd for a
51,000 sq. ft. distribution warehouse. In addition, a funding
agreement has been completed for the sale of this investment
upon practical completion. To complement this development, 
a further 51,000 sq. ft. distribution warehouse will be 
constructed on a speculative basis.
At St. David’s Park, the 27,000 sq. ft. speculative office 
development, ‘Optima’, is nearing completion and enquiry 
levels are encouraging. 
19 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Above
Aerial view of St. David’s Park, Flintshire, showing the 
new 27,000 sq. ft. development, ‘Optima’
Centre
Whitworthwest apartments and retail scheme, 
Manchester City Centre
Right
26,000 sq. ft. office development, Altrincham
Left
138,500 sq. ft. Windsor office development 20 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
One of the core strengths of the Group remains the ‘Redrow
Team’. The importance of that team can never be overstated.
Our continuing growth, combined with the increasing 
complexity of our industry, means that Redrow must be 
recognised as ‘an employer of choice’ so as to be able to 
attract the highest calibre of employee, whether they be craft 
apprentices and graduates commencing their careers within our
industry or more experienced staff.
To achieve that objective we must work to enhance the image
of our industry within the community in addition to providing
the appropriate support and training for our staff.  Last year we
announced the launch of the ‘Curriculum Resource Pack’. This
is now freely available to all primary schools in the U.K. and
seeks to promote a better understanding of the development
process, building upon the National Curriculum. Recently we
have launched a new initiative with the National Trust to bring
together children from contrasting backgrounds at selected
National Trust properties to enhance their experiences and to
promote a better understanding of the role of their communities.
Within the Group the focus remains on providing 
comprehensive training initiatives. Programmes have been
specifically designed for craft apprentices and graduates and to
assist our staff at all levels in gaining professional qualifications
and enhancing their management skills.
Redrow remains a committed member of Business in the
Community, an organisation which seeks to link the corporate
sector with the community. Through this organisation Redrow
employees continue to participate in a number of important 
initiatives so promoting a better understanding of our industry.
Above
Our team of newly recruited 
graduates, pictured with Redrow
directors and previous graduate
trainees
THE REDROW TEAM. . . THE COMMUNITY . . .
Redrow remains a committed member of Business
in the Community, an organisation which seeks
to link the corporate sector with the community. Redrow has entered the new financial year in 
excellent health.  The Homes Division enjoys 
record forward sales and an inherently profitable 
land bank together with a product portfolio that 
recognises the needs and aspirations of our customers.  
Redrow Commercial has established a development 
programme harnessing the combined residential and 
commercial skills within the Group to maximise the value 
from mixed use schemes. Further, the utilisation of the 
project management expertise on all residential city centre 
developments provides the Group with an enhanced level 
of control.
Accordingly, barring the impact of factors totally outside the
control of the Group, Redrow can look forward with confidence
to maintaining its record of delivering long term sustainable
growth and by so doing deliver value to our Shareholders.
Paul L. Pedley Chief Executive
21 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
AND THE FUTURE
Above
Redrow apprentices
Centre
Carol Bosley, sales manager Redrow Midlands with 
school children at a National Trust property
Left
Redrow staff present cheque to Claire House Children’s Hospice
