 8 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW       
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
Paul L Pedley Chief Executive 
This has been another year
of record achievement for
Redrow.
The year ended 30 June 2003 has been another period of
record achievement for Redrow. Operating profits have
increased from £94.1m to £113.7m delivering earnings per
share of 46.9p, an increase of 21.8%. Our balance sheet
continues to strengthen with shareholders’ funds now
exceeding £300m and gearing at 30.9%, a further 
reduction on last year. The efficient utilisation of capital
has always represented one of the main financial objectives
within the Group and this is reflected in our return on 
capital employed which has increased to 31%. 
During the last twelve months the Group has been 
carefully positioned in anticipation of a more sustainable
housing market. The strength of our land bank enabled
Redrow Homes to increase the number of active outlets as
we entered the new calendar year so as to capture the
benefit of the important Spring market. This resulted in 
record forward sales as at 30 June 2003 of £304m. In 
addition, Redrow Commercial has commenced the new
financial year with forward transactions exchanged at both 
St. David’s Park and Buckshaw Village.
The increasing recognition by the Government of the
problems created by the continuing shortage of new homes
is to be welcomed. The three major Government sponsored
studies covering the barriers to increased housing supply,
the development of a market for long term fixed rate  
mortgages and the improvement of the efficiency of the
industry, all represent key opportunities to influence the
housing industry of the future. The supply constraints
resulting from a restrictive and under-resourced planning
regime are well documented. However, it is important that
our industry is capable of responding if Government
initiatives do result in an increase in the supply of land  with planning. For this to be achieved,
improved construction techniques are
required to counter the impact of
skilled labour shortages. During the last
twelve months we have undertaken a
careful review of both the design of our
housing portfolio and our build practices. 
This has resulted in the creation of a new 
housing range which will be launched during 2004. 
The new range combines the kerb appeal and the 
quality of design with which the Group has become 
synonymous, with improved construction methods, in 
particular increased off-site prefabrication. In addition, the
new range has been designed to deliver the added benefits of
light steel-frame construction which will flow as production is
increased at our joint venture company, Framing Solutions.
9
Far left
St. Katherine’s Park, Ham Green, Bristol
Left
Schooners Creek, Colchester
Above
Parc Pen-y-Fal, Abergavenny
Right
Bramley Green, Angmering
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  10 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW       
REDROW HOMES
Redrow Homes has again reported record results, with
turnover increasing by 9.7% to £596.0m and operating
profit by 17.0% to £111.5m. These results were secured
from 4,031 (2002: 3,908) legal completions with an 
average selling price of £147,900 (2002: £139,000). The
legal completion profile was broadly in balance between
the first and second halves with 1,970 (48.9%) and 2,061
(51.1%) legal completions respectively.
During the last twelve months there have been significant
variations in our various regional markets. Within the
Southern Region, the market has generally undergone a
period of stabilisation whilst in both the Western and
Northern Regions the positive ripple emanating from an
historically strong Southern market has been experienced.
The conflict in Iraq resulted in a temporary period of
uncertainty whilst late Spring and early Summer witnessed
an overall return to a more sustainable housing market
throughout the country.
In recognition of the potential uncertainty and changing
conditions within the market, a significant number of new
development launches were scheduled for early 2003 to
capture the benefit of the important Spring market.
One of the most successful launches was at Altolusso,
the Division’s In the City development in Cardiff, where,
over the initial launch period, 155 reservations were
secured with a sales value of £25m. As a result of this
overall strategy, reservations in the six months to 
30 June 2003 were 9.1% ahead of the very strong 
corresponding period in 2002. For the financial year as a
whole, reservations were 4,567 as compared with 4,168 in
the previous year, an increase of 9.6%. This improvement
enabled the Division to end the year with a record forward
sales position of 2,062 units with a sales value of £304m,
representing increases of 35.1% and 39.4% respectively on
last year.
Cost pressures within the industry have continued during
the financial year. Whilst the Group’s proactive policy of
establishing key relationships with suppliers has resulted in
material price increases being controlled generally in line
with inflation, the continuing shortage of skilled labour has
resulted in labour cost increases of up to 10%. In the long
term, these cost pressures can only be alleviated by both
increasing the overall attractiveness of our industry to new
entrants, so increasing the total work force, and by
embracing new construction techniques.
Operating margins within Redrow Homes have continued
to increase, recording levels of 18.4% and 19.0% in the
first and second halves respectively. The overall annual
operating margin of 18.7% compares with 17.6% last year.
This improvement is in part due to the strength  of the sales market during calendar
year 2002, but equally reflects the
quality of the Division’s land bank and
the active management of our cost base.
The identification by the Government of
key growth areas at Milton Keynes, Stansted,
the East Thames Corridor and Ashford, to satisfy
the increased demand for new homes in the South
East, is of strategic importance. To enable the Division 
to maximise the potential from these growth areas, a new
company, Redrow Homes (South Midlands), has been
formed to focus on the area 
11 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
Far left
Crown Gardens, Glasgow
Left
Priory Green, Little Dunmow, Essex
Above
St. Edward’s Park, Leek, Staffordshire
Right
A computer generated image of Altolusso, Cardiff 12
known as the ‘Milton Keynes triangle’. As a result, the 
geographical coverage of Redrow Homes (Southern),
Redrow Homes (Eastern) and Redrow Homes (South East)
has been reviewed to enhance the efficiency and 
effectiveness of these companies. The decision has been
taken to relocate the first to Basingstoke in Hampshire and
to merge the other two, with the relocation of the merged
business to Laindon, near Basildon in Essex.
Framing Solutions, our light steel-frame joint venture 
company with Corus plc, continues to progress. The 
commissioning of the new roll-forming machinery together
with the related design and control programmes has been
successfully completed. This is a major achievement,
greatly increasing the efficiency of the design and
production process, representing a significant step towards
enhancing the production capability over the next few
years to approximately 4,000 units per annum. To date,
light steel-frames have been incorporated successfully into
four Redrow developments with further sites scheduled to
come on stream prior to the end of the calendar year.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW        The Northern Region delivered 1,982 legal completions as 
compared with 1,888 in the previous year, an increase of 5.0%,
representing 49.2% of the Division’s completions.  These results
reflect the acquisition of Tay Homes in January 2002 with the
resultant expansion of our activities in both Scotland and
Yorkshire.  The average selling price increased by 8.2% to
£128,500 to yield an overall increase in turnover of 13.6%.
The Southern Region achieved 1,091 legal completions, broadly
in line with the previous year, representing 27.1% of the total
completions of Redrow Homes.  The average selling price
increased by 9.1% to £186,400 to give an overall increase in
turnover of 6.5%.  
The expansion of the Western Region continues with legal
completions increasing by 6.2% to 958 units.  The average 
selling price was marginally higher at £144,000 with turnover
increasing by 8.1% to £138.0m.
13
REGIONAL 
PERFORMANCE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
Far left Brockham Park, Surrey
Centre Erection of a steel-frame system at Parc Victoria, Ebbw Vale
Left Homes at Parc Victoria, Ebbw Vale, constructed with the new steel-frame system
Right The Boulevards, Harrogate
Far right Rumford Grange, Falkirk 14 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW       
THE REDROW PORTFOLIO
Over the last ten years the development of the Heritage,
Harwood and In the City brands has been of major 
importance in the expansion of Redrow Homes. During
that period the number of legal completions has almost
doubled, from 2,038 in 1994 to 4,031 in 2003.
The Heritage range, which, in the financial year had
an average selling price of £166,100, still represents the
cornerstone of the portfolio, accounting for 63.2% of legal
completions. As anticipated last year, the last twelve
months have witnessed a significant expansion in the
utilisation of the Harwood range. This is primarily due to
the fact that on the acquisition of Tay Homes in January
2002, the majority of that company’s developments in
Yorkshire and Scotland were more suited to the Harwood
specification. In addition, increased usage has been made
of the Harwood range in both South West and South
Wales. As a result, Harwood represented 29.0% of the
Division’s legal completions in the current financial year
and had an average selling price marginally in excess of
£100,000. 
To complement Heritage and Harwood, several In the
City developments have been and are being undertaken.
The number of such schemes is carefully controlled due to
the significant management time involved in each scheme
and, from a financial viewpoint, their capital intensive
nature. During the year, In the City schemes contributed
7.8% to the Division’s legal completions, with an average
selling price of £174,900. Of particular significance was the
highly successful scheme at Whitworthwest in Manchester
which secured the award for “Best City Centre Residential
Development” from the Association of Town Centre
Management in conjunction with the NHBC.
Ongoing In the City schemes include Odyssey in London,
Altolusso in Cardiff, Jupiter in Birmingham, Velocity in
Leeds and Neptune Marina in Ipswich. To balance the
higher capital investment associated with In the City
schemes it is important to maintain a strong forward sales
position. It is therefore pleasing to report that by the
financial year end the above developments have already
secured 348 forward sales for legal completion in the year
ending 30 June 2005.
Whilst the Heritage and Harwood ranges have been 
highly successful, the changing requirements of Planning
Policy Guidance, in particular PPG3, have resulted in
an increasing percentage of bespoke concept schemes
marketed under the Heritage and Harwood banners.
The increase in such schemes has resulted in a greater 
absorption of management time in their design and a 
dilution of the benefits that flow from the construction
of a more standardised housing range.
In response to these changes, a new highly flexible range
of generic house styles has been designed. This new range
combines the quality of design that has characterised the
Heritage and Harwood ranges with the re-introduction
of greater standardisation within the construction process
whilst maintaining the flexibility in elevational treatments
to match the local vernacular. With three different specification levels in the new housing
range, the benefits derived from a
diverse product portfolio will be 
maintained, but complemented by the
efficiencies of greater standardisation,
both from a build and financial viewpoint.
This new range has equally been designed to
respect the requirements of PPG3 and to enhance
the utilisation of off-site prefabrication. Furthermore,
whilst designed initially to be predominantly built
traditionally, the requirements of light steel-frame 
construction have been fully recognised so as to provide 
further benefits as production from Framing Solutions 
is increased. 
Finally, from a marketing perspective, the new range, 
irrespective of specification, will be marketed under the single
Redrow brand to provide greater synergy with the Division’s
national marketing programme, and in particular, the highly
successful campaign on digital television.
15
Above
Eton Court, Pengam Green, Cardiff
Right
Saxon Place, Northampton
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  16 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW       
DEVELOPING A SUSTAINABLE   
During the last twelve months,
the current land bank has
increased to 16,000 plots.
Land remains the key to the Group’s future profitability.
During the last twelve months, the current land bank has
increased from 15,600 plots to 16,000 plots, representing,
on an historic basis, a four year land supply. Of these plots,
14,000 are owned with planning, an increase on the 
previous year of 600 plots. The balance is held under 
contract awaiting, in the vast majority of cases, the grant
of a satisfactory planning consent.
It is, however, the effectiveness of this land bank that is of
paramount importance. The Homes Division owns with
planning all the land required to deliver the budgeted 
completions for the new financial year. Further, 85% of the
forecast legal completions for the year ending 30 June 2005
are on land owned with planning and indeed all are on
land controlled by the Division. This places Redrow
Homes in an extremely strong position for the future.
During 2003, Redrow Homes acquired approximately 4,630
plots for a total consideration of £126.9m representing an
average plot cost of £27,400. At the financial year end, the
average plot cost has increased from £21,200 to £22,900,
which, when expressed as a percentage of annual historic
sales price, represents a marginal increase from 15.3% last
year to 15.5% for the current year.
17,500
15,000
12,500
10,000
7,500
5,000
2,500
0
Land under contract
Land owned with planning consent
Current Land Bank
1999
3,300
12,300
9,000
2001
3,000
14,300
11,300
2002
2,200
15,600
13,400
2003
2,000
16,000
14,000
2000
3,300
10,200
13,500 With the increasing concentration on
brownfield development, the historic
distinction between current and
forward land has been eroded, with our
planning teams now equally involved in
securing planning consent on both
categories of land. Nevertheless, forward land
remains a major contributor to the land acquired
each year and during the last twelve months some
30% of the land acquired was secured through this route.
Further, at the financial year end, the forward land bank
totalled approximately 23,750 plots. Of particular
significance is the number of plots allocated in either draft
or adopted local plans. Despite the contribution to the
current land bank during the year, these allocations have
been maintained at over 8,000 plots, representing over
one-third of the forward land bank, clearly demonstrating
its planning pedigree.
17
  FUTURE
Far left
Whatton Grange, Long Whatton, Leicestershire
Above
Woodvale Place, Southport
Right
The Circus, Gras Lawn, Exeter
CHIEF EXECUTIVE ’S REVIEW  18 CHIEF EXECUTIVE ’S REVIEW       
REDROW COMMERCIAL
The focus is on the identification
and development of mixed use
schemes so adding value on a
Group-wide basis.
The recent relocation of Redrow Commercial to new 
office premises within the Group’s mixed use scheme at
Whitworthwest, Manchester represents the culmination of
a very successful year. Operating profits of £3.0m were at a
similar level to last year, with contributions being secured
from each of the company’s major developments.
At St. David’s Park, Optima, the 27,000 sq. ft. office
development to which I referred last year, was sold to 
moneysupermarket.com. At Buckshaw Village, the
80,000 sq. ft. of industrial units built speculatively has 
generated significant interest with the sale of a 
20,000 sq. ft. unit prior to the year end and the disposal of
a further 14,000 sq. ft. unit subsequent to the year end. In
addition, on both developments the sale of undeveloped
parcels of land has been achieved so further improving the
company’s results. At Western Approach, Bristol, the
51,000 sq. ft. distribution warehouse pre-let to MacFarlane
Group U.K. Ltd has been successfully sold and marketing
continues on the second unit, also of 51,000 sq. ft., 
constructed in parallel. Lastly, the investment sale of the
ground floor retail space at Whitworthwest in Manchester,
pre-let to Sainsbury’s Supermarkets Ltd, has been
successfully completed. 
The company has commenced the new financial year with
forward transactions secured at both St. David’s Park and
Buckshaw Village. At the former, contracts were
exchanged prior to the year end for the sale of Evolution,
nursery office units totalling approximately 15,000 sq. ft..
Following build completion in mid July, the sale has been
successfully completed. At Buckshaw Village, contracts have been exchanged, 
subject to planning, for the sale to Aldi Stores Ltd of a 
31 acre parcel of land for the development of a 
650,000 sq. ft. distribution warehouse. This transaction,
together with those previously referred to, establishes
Buckshaw Village as a major mixed use development
within the North West.
Over the last two years, the focus within Redrow
Commercial has been on the identification and
development of mixed use schemes so adding value on a
Group-wide basis. Twelve months ago the structure of the
management team was reviewed and brought in line with
that of the Homes Division. The results for the year, together
with the foundations laid for the future, are a solid 
endorsement of these policies.
Last year, I referred to the ‘extensive project management skills
within Redrow Commercial which have been harnessed to
provide the appropriate controls on all In the City schemes
undertaken throughout the Group’. To recognise the significant
Group-wide contribution made by this project management
team, the decision has been taken to relocate the team to
St. David’s Park, so facilitating greater integration in all relevant
aspects of the Group’s business.
19
Far left Redrow Commercial Office, Whitworthwest, Manchester city centre
Centre ‘Optima’, 27,000 sq. ft. office development, St David’s Park, Flintshire
Left Western Approach, Severnside, Bristol
Right Whitworthwest apartments and retail scheme, Manchester city centre
CHIEF EXECUTIVE ’S REVIEW  20 CHIEF EXECUTIVE ’S REVIEW       
One of the core strengths of the Group remains the
‘Redrow Team’. Our continuing growth, combined with
the increasing complexity of our industry, means that
Redrow must be recognised as ‘an employer of choice’
so as to be able to both retain our existing staff and attract
future employees of the highest calibre.  It is however
equally important that these new employees receive the 
appropriate induction, which not only encompasses our
policies and procedures, but also our culture, so that all
new staff can feel part of the Redrow Team and contribute 
fully at the earliest opportunity. In addition to recognising
the need for a structured induction process, there is an
ongoing requirement for training across many disciplines
throughout the Group.
During the last financial year, a detailed review was
undertaken as to how these objectives could best be
achieved. The conclusion of the review was the formation
of ‘The Redrow Training Centre’. This facility is now
housed within a purpose built 4,000 sq. ft. building,
constructed next to the offices of Redrow Homes
(Midlands) at Tamworth. The centre had a capital cost of
approximately £500,000 and is staffed by professional
trainers recruited from both within and outside the Group
to provide the appropriate balance of skills. Furthermore,
existing team members may be seconded to provide
specialist courses, particularly in more technical disciplines
and in the important area of health and safety. The centre
is fully integrated into the Group-wide computer systems
to provide a ‘real life’ environment for learning purposes.
On an annual basis, some 400 courses will be provided at a
cost of approximately £400,000.
This initiative clearly demonstrates Redrow’s commitment
to its employees and its desire to be ‘the employer of
choice’ within our industry.
Above
The Redrow Training Centre, Tamworth
Centre
Interior of the Training Centre
Right
Redrow plc Headquarters, St. David’s Park, Flintshire
THE REDROW TEAM
OUR TRAINING INITIATIVE Redrow has entered the new financial year having 
delivered record results and secured an excellent platform
for future growth. The Homes Division, through careful
planning and the launch of several new developments,
has secured a record forward sales position. The Division’s
land bank has been further strengthened and provides an
effective and solid base for the future. The review of the
housing portfolio will ensure that the qualities of the
existing ranges are combined with the requirements for
enhanced construction methods, so supporting our future
financial returns.
Redrow Commercial has established a sound development 
programme, adding significant value through its focus on
mixed use schemes.
Accordingly, barring the impact of factors totally outside the
control of the Group, Redrow can look forward with confidence
to maintaining its record of delivering long term sustainable
growth and by so doing deliver value to our shareholders.
Paul L Pedley Chief Executive
21
OUTLOOK
CHIEF EXECUTIVE ’S REVIEW 
