 4 Reed Health Group plc
I am delighted to report on the results of Reed
Health Group plc for the year to 30 June 2002.
During this period the Group demerged from 
Reed Executive plc in July last year, acquired 
The Locum Group Limited (“The Locum Group”)
in May this year, and has established itself as a
leading professional and specialist HR support
services company delivering services to Health,
Social Services and Education.
Financial Results 
In the year ended 30 June 2002, Reed Health Group’s
turnover increased by 17.3% to £78.3m 
(2001: £66.8m), gross proﬁt increased by 34.6% to
£15.2m (2001: £11.3m) and operating proﬁt before
taxation, goodwill amortisation and exceptional item,
increased 18.2% to £5.2m (2001: £4.4m). Diluted
earnings per share, adjusted for goodwill amortisation
and exceptional item, were up 17.2% to 7.84p 
(2001: 6.69p). Shareholders’ funds at 30 June 2002
have increased to £31.5m from £7.5m the prior year.
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities for the year
to 30 June 2002 was £7.2m (2001: £1.9m). As at 
30 June 2002, the Group had net debt of £6.9m.
The Directors are recommending a maiden ﬁnal
dividend of 1.34p per share bringing the total
dividend per share for the ﬁnancial year to 2.0p. 
The Group
The Company completed the acquisition of The
Locum Group on 28 May 2002.
In the Health market the Group is now one of the
leading providers of professional stafﬁng services
and has the capability to offer doctors, nurses, and
other professionally qualiﬁed health staff, such as
physiotherapists, optometrists, pharmacists and
radiographers. In the Social Care market, The
Locum Group has strengthened Reed Health
Group’s presence in the South East of England.
The division is ﬁrmly established as a leading
provider of services to both the local authority and
independent sectors. The acquisition has enabled
the Group to enter the Education market, a sector in
Chairman’s Statement 5 Reed Health Group plc
which we plan to continue to grow. The Board
expects The Locum Group to make a valuable
contribution to Reed Health Group’s proﬁts in the
coming year.
The integration of The Locum Group is progressing
to plan. Opportunities are being pursued to share
candidate bases across the enlarged Group and to
increase the number of candidates sourced from
overseas locations particularly Australia and Canada.
Additionally, we are evaluating plans to fully integrate
its support functions and enhance its management
information systems to provide a ﬁrm base from
which other acquisitions can be supported. 
Our people
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our
employees for their hard work and dedication in this
our ﬁrst year as a public company. 
Summary and outlook
Our markets remain full of opportunities. The
Government’s continued commitment to improving
the public services of Health, Social Care and
Education together with the ever increasing demand
for ﬂexible, professional and specialist stafﬁng
resources make for a thriving and competitive market.
The Board believes the Group is well placed to take
advantage of the many prospects and opportunities
that present themselves in our current market. 
By actively developing value added, integrated
services for our clients across each of our three
markets, the Group will grow organically, whilst
looking at complementary acquisition opportunities.
The Board believes the Group is well placed to
maintain the momentum established over the 
past 12 months and views the year ahead with
conﬁdence.
Lord Tom Sawyer
Chairman
9 September 2002
“The Board believes the Group is well placed to take
advantage of the many prospects and opportunities that
present themselves in our current market.”
