 6 Reed Health Group plc
Chief Executive’s Review
This has been a year of signiﬁcant development for
the Company. In July 2001 we demerged from
Reed Executive plc and in May this year we made
our ﬁrst major acquisition, The Locum Group. 
The principal reason for the demerger was to 
allow the Company to concentrate on the
healthcare and public sector stafﬁng markets and
to make suitable acquisitions. Both these aspects
are essential for the Company to build on its aim of
becoming the partner of choice for the delivery of
professional and specialist human resource 
(“HR”) solutions, in the areas of Health, Social Care
and Education.
Group Strategy
Our strategy is to become the leading provider of
professional and specialist HR recruitment and
retention solutions to the public and private sectors
in the UK, focusing on the Health, Social Care and
Education markets.
There are signiﬁcant opportunities in each of these
markets, based on services that add value, are
quality driven and have a strong customer
satisfaction focus. In order to take advantage of
these opportunities, we will continue to build on our
professional capabilities and understanding of
these markets by both increasing our specialisation
and cross selling our services across our client
base. The acquisition of The Locum Group has
opened up a number of exciting synergies,
particularly in the area of Health.
It is our intention to create integrated services
across our sectors to provide a complete solutions
package for the recruitment and retention of
specialist staff by our clients.
Sector Review
Health 
Following the acquisition of The Locum Group we
are now deploying doctors and health professionals
on a nationwide basis into hospitals, clinics and GP
surgeries. Combined with our nursing business,
which chieﬂy concentrates on the market in the
South East of England, we now cover the majority
of medically qualiﬁed professional disciplines. 
Over the past 12 months we have widened our
professional Health stafﬁng portfolio further by
starting up specialist services such as Optometry
and Pharmacy. These niche developments and the
ongoing specialisation are in line with our overall
strategy of developing value added, integrated
services. This strategy, which has been
strengthened by the acquisition of The Locum
Group, will put us in an increasingly strong position
in the markets in which we operate.
Professions Allied to Medicine 
Turnover for the year to 30 June 2002 increased by
56.0% to £16.7m from £10.7m in 2001. Excluding
the £2.4m of turnover relating to The Locum Group,
growth was 33.3% within the existing Reed Health
Group Health Professionals division.  7 Reed Health Group plc
“Our strategy is to become the leading provider of
professional and specialist HR recruitment and
retention solutions to the public and private sectors 
in the UK, focusing on the the Health, Social Care 
and Education markets”.
Working in partnership
Using the expertise of Reed
Nursing, Ashford and St Peters
NHS Trust will generate
savings of up to £600,000
over the next two years, to be
reinvested in NHS Services.
The initiative which assessed
the use of the Trust’s nurse
bank and looked at how it
could be centralised, will
beneﬁt staff, patients and the
Trust, illustrating how private
sector experience, knowledge
and skills can be used for
public beneﬁt. 8 Reed Health Group plc
This growth has been mainly in the service sectors
of therapeutic professions and we have continued
our successful strategy of adding services and
professions to our portfolio. T ogether with The
Locum Group’s relevant divisions, this business
now operates from 5 branches, providing
nationwide coverage, and caters for over a dozen
specialist professions, such as optometrists and
chiropodists.
Nursing 
Turnover for the year to 30 June 2002 fell marginally
by 1.7% from £29.9m to £29.3m reﬂecting the agreed
termination of the Forest Healthcare NHS Trust
contract, in February 2002, which had previously
generated turnover of approximately £6m per annum.
We have successfully tendered for new business.
In February 2002 we were awarded a Service Level
Agreement with Surrey and Sussex Healthcare NHS
Trust and in July we were appointed sole supplier
to the newly formed Central and Northwest London
Mental Health NHS Trust. We have also extended
existing contracts with Hammersmith Hospitals
NHS Trust to 2007 and Parkside and Newham to
October 2002 and March 2003 respectively. 
Work held under contract now accounts for
approximately 70% of turnover in this division, down
from approximately 80% last year. This change to a
higher proportion of spot placements has enabled
us to improve gross margins so the impact on gross
proﬁt of losing a high volume, low margin contract
within the Nursing division is minimised. At the same
time we have restructured the division, amalgamating
ten branches into seven, to provide fewer, larger
branches thus lowering the division’s cost base.
Having been awarded supplier status under the
ﬁrst phase of the London Agency Project (“LAP”) 
in September 2001, the second phase (“LAP 2”) is
likely to come into effect in the Spring of 2003. 
Chief Executive’s Review continued 9 Reed Health Group plc
LAP 2 will regulate the pay and charge rates of
commercial agencies in respect of all nursing staff
supplied to the majority of London NHS Trusts. 
With NHS Professionals, the NHS is trying to solve
its own stafﬁng needs, however, it is difﬁcult to see
how one kind of provision will remedy the shortfall of
qualiﬁed and skilled workforce that currently exists
and seems only set to grow worse. A degree of
impact has been felt by the Company due to the
confusion over NHS Professionals, however, there
continue to be opportunities for quality nursing
agencies, particularly in London and the South East.
Doctors 
The doctors division, which was acquired as part of
The Locum Group, generated turnover of £1.3m in
the period of ownership. The Locum Group has built
a strong reputation for the supply of medical locum
staff to NHS Trusts in England, Wales and Scotland
and operates out of 5 branches from a database of
over 6,000 candidates.  
Since the formation of the “national contract” for
the supply of locum doctors in 1997, The Locum
Group has been one of only nine agencies
accredited on this contract. This “national contract”
is presently being renegotiated for a further ﬁve
year extension and the result of this is expected in
October. Over 150 NHS Trusts are currently part of
the “national contract” and we service over half of
these Trusts, and have preferred supplier status
with over 20. In particular, we were pleased to
renew a contract with Guy’s and St Thomas’ private
patients unit for residential medical ofﬁcers, 
Market statistics
• Government committed to increase signiﬁcantly the number of
consultants, GP’s, nurses, midwives, health visitors, therapists and
scientists by 2008
• The Wanless Report indicates the healthcare workforce may have
to increase by 300,000 over the next two years
• In Health, Government spending plan will increase to £105bn by
2007/8
• Social Services and Education expected to receive equally strong
commitments
• PPP expected to play an increasing role in the health industry 10 Reed Health Group plc
Chief Executive’s Review continued
which has been extended to May 2003 with yearly
extensions thereafter.
Consultancy 
We have had the opportunity to work on a number
of consultancy projects with NHS Trust clients. 
This has opened up new opportunities for working
in partnership with our clients and to achieve better
services for the end user. We believe that the
opportunity to undertake consultancy assignments
conﬁrms our standing in the market as being a
quality provider of services.
Social Care
The division supplies qualiﬁed and unqualiﬁed
social workers on a temporary and contract basis,
mainly to Local Authorities and Social Services,
across specialist services ranging from child care
to elderly care.
Turnover for the year to 30 June 2002 increased
from £26.2m to £30.3m, an increase of 15.5%.
Excluding turnover of £0.4m relating to The Locum
Group acquisition, growth was 14.0%. This was a
pleasing result, particularly in the light of a 
rigorous internal re-structuring programme which
took place during the second half of the year. 
This has led to improved business processes,
margins and cost control. Poorly performing
projects and supply agreements have been
terminated or re-negotiated and we have put in
place the necessary operational infrastructure to
enable improved performance.
A number of supply contracts were renewed in 
the year, namely Greenwich City Council, 
Islington Social Services, Waltham Forest Social
Services and Birmingham, Bury and Leeds 
Social Services.  
The integration of The Locum Group’s social care
business into the Reed Health Group’s social care
business is progressing well and should be
completed before the end of the calendar year. 
In particular, this integration will strengthen our
market standing in the London region. We have
increased the number of our branches there from
two to three and more branch openings are
scheduled over the coming months.
Education
This is a new market for Reed Health Group. The
business was acquired through The Locum Group
acquisition and in the period to 30 June 2002
generated sales of £0.7m. This is a market that ﬁts
the overall strategy of the Group. There are growing
synergies particularly between the markets of
Social Care and Education, which we are now able
to satisfy. This will bring us further cross selling
opportunities across the markets. This division
operates from ﬁve branches and concentrates on
the supply of temporary and permanent teachers to
primary and secondary schools. Overseas supply
of candidates has become successful in this
division and is expected to continue to generate
growth in this business.
International
Our ability to grow the business relies on our ability to
recruit and retain suitably qualiﬁed and experienced
professional staff. Our recruitment ofﬁces in
Australia and New Zealand, which were acquired
as part of The Locum Group, play an important part
in attracting suitable staff to work in the each of the
Health, Social Care and Education sectors. 
We are currently establishing a Canadian ofﬁce to
formalise our recruitment presence there. Initially, 11 Reed Health Group plc
this ofﬁce will be used to supply Canadian teachers
to the UK market, but over time it will be expanded to
cater for the Health and Social Care markets. We
expect the ofﬁce to be operational in October 2002. 
Criminal Records Bureau
Whilst the well publicised difﬁculties at the Criminal
Records Bureau have not affected us to date, the
Group operates in areas where many of our
candidates need to be vetted. If the problems at
the Criminal Records Bureau continue, this may
have a slight impact on our business. However, at
this stage, the Board foresees no immediate
impact on the Group.
Summary and Outlook
Our ﬁrst acquisition has materially strengthened our
aim of becoming a preferred and leading supplier
of professional and specialist personnel in the
Health, Social Care and Education sectors.
As we continue to improve our internal structures to
increase effectiveness and efﬁciency, we will continue
to improve our offers of value adding quality services
to customers to build on our position in the forefront
of recruitment and retention in our chosen markets.
We will drive the business based on our organic
growth skills, combined with making ﬁtting and suitable
acquisitions. The year ahead is full of opportunities
to strengthen our position and move towards
realising our aim.
Christa Echtle
Chief Executive
9 September 2002
