 06
ReGal PeTROleum PlC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
17759	 07/05/10	 Proof	5
Our Business
Chief executive Officer’s Statement
David Greer OBE
continue to drive the Company forward. During 2009, four new 
generation wells were spud in Ukraine and by January 2010 
production had risen to 2,072 boepd following the hook-up  
of SV-58.
Health, Safety, environment and Security
Regal is committed to maintaining the highest standards of 
Health, Safety, Environment and Security (HSES) and the 
effective management of these areas is an intrinsic element of the 
overall business ethos. Through strict enforcement of the 
Company’s HSES Management System, together with regular 
management meetings, training and the appointment of dedicated 
safety professionals, the Company strives to ensure that the 
impact of its business activities on its staff, contractors and the 
environment is as low as is reasonably practicable. Regal reports 
safety and environmental performance in accordance with the 
Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP) guidelines.
The number of safe man-hours worked by staff and contractors 
in 2009 totalled 900,549 man-hours with no Lost Time 
Incidents reported during the year. This brought the cumulative 
total without a Lost Time Incident to over 1.6 million hours by  
31 December 2009 and since this date, the total has exceeded 
2.0 million hours over two years without a Lost Time Incident.  
No environmental incidents were recorded during the year.
Introduction
2009 was a year of sustained progress in Ukraine, most notably 
with the spudding of the first wells with the new top-drive drilling 
rigs. Work on the 3D sub-surface model was further refined 
following the completion of seismic acquisition in 2008 and  
with data from the new wells; governance procedures were 
strengthened further; and historic regulatory matters were finally 
brought to a close. The worldwide financial crisis and the resultant 
contraction in availability of investment capital threatened to derail 
Regal’s development programme, but the support shown by 
shareholders in the $105 million (gross) capital raising through a 
secondary placing on 1 July 2009, coupled with the funds raised 
in the preceding year, has enabled the Company to maintain 
momentum and to continue to build upon the achievements of  
last year. 
The application of new technology and the appointment of 
experienced professionals with a wealth of industry experience 
driving the 
Company  
Forward 07
Our Performance 
Chairman’s Statement 
Chief Executives Review
Stockcode: RPT www.regalpetroleum.co.uk
17759	 07/05/10	 Proof	5
Our Business 
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement 08
ReGal PeTROleum PlC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
17759	 07/05/10	 Proof	5
Our Business
Chief executive Officer’s Statement continued
Technological
achievements
RESERvoiR tECHnoL ogy
■ Acquired, processed and interpreted 3D seismic
imagery over entire licensed area
■ Acquired advanced petrophysical analysis and
geological modelling software for detailed reservoir 
characterisation  
■ Constructed static reservoir model based on 24 wellbores 
integrated with the seismic imagery as a basis for 
volumetric estimation 
■ Consequent increase in internal view of initial hydrocarbons 
in place 
■ Identified previously undeveloped limestone
reservoir (B24)
ComPLEtion tECHnoL ogy
■ Custom designed and built equipment for rig and coiled 
tubing to enable deployment of high pressure hydraulic 
abrasive jet perforation to ensure reservoir access 
■ Wellbore inflow performance enhancement through 
deployment of “minifrac” stimulation of the rock face
■ Completion designs allowing for zonal isolation and 
selective production
■ Broadened completion strategy to include slotted liners set 
below 5,400 metres depth
PRodUCtion tECHnoL ogy
■ Launched wellhead compression project to increase 
ultimate recovery
■ Launched liquid vapour recovery project to monetise
waste gas
■ Identified and implemented production enhancement 
project portfolio on existing wells 09
Our Performance 
Chairman’s Statement 
Chief Executives Review
Stockcode: RPT www.regalpetroleum.co.uk
17759	 07/05/10	 Proof	5
Our Business 
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
kE y 
FaCt S and Fig URES
$105m of new capital raised
year end cash balance $118.6m
Revenues up 74% on prior year
Capital expenditure of $94.9m
gas: realised price $244 per mm
3 10
ReGal PeTROleum PlC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
17759	 07/05/10	 Proof	5
Our Business
Chief executive Officer’s Statement continued
uKRaInIan
markets
UkRainE ovERviEw
■ 	 Long-term production licence
■ 	 Significant existing reserves with clear, sizeable
upside potential
■ 	 Experience & technology to deliver; seasoned industry 
professionals, quality Ukrainian team
■ 	 Strategic location — approximately 80% of Russian gas 
exported to the European Union crosses Ukraine
■ 	 Encouraging business environment:
■ 	 Good fiscal environment encouraging deep
gas exploitation
■ 	 Revenues indirectly linked to $
■ 	 Structured to repatriate profits
attRaCtivE gaS PRiCing 
European market very different to North America:
■ 	 Higher prices — oil price linked
■ 	 Demand rising
■ 	 Eastern Europe joined EU
■ 	 North Sea production decline
■ 	 Nearly 80% of Ukrainian demand satisfied by imported gas 
from Russia; domestic production encouraged 11
Our Performance 
Chairman’s Statement 
Chief Executives Review
Stockcode: RPT www.regalpetroleum.co.uk
17759	 07/05/10	 Proof	5
Our Business 
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
However, the plan is to modify our forward programme in the 
short term to optimise production. 
In Romania, work continues on both of Regal’s licence interests. 
On Barlad, which is 100% Regal owned and operated, a further 
104.7 km of 2D seismic was acquired and is being interpreted 
in advance of a further shallow gas exploration well planned  
for later in 2010. This will discharge the remaining work 
commitment for the licence. However, additional studies and 
field work are being undertaken to determine whether deeper 
prospects may reside within possible shale deposits of the 
Silurian Period. In the Suceava concession, which is 50% owned 
by Regal and operated by Aurelian Oil & Gas plc, 2D seismic 
data acquired during the year has resulted in the identification  
of a gas prospect located 2.5 km to the east of the Vicsani 
discovery in the neighbouring Brodina concession, which is also 
operated by Aurelian Oil & Gas plc. It is intended to drill a well to 
evaluate this gas prospect later in 2010.
In the East Ras Budran licence in Egypt, in which Regal holds a 
25% interest and is operated by Apache, a work-over on well 
ERB-A-1X to replace an electrical submersible pump was 
undertaken. However, technical challenges encountered by 
Apache resulted in operations being suspended. The 2010 plan 
for Egypt includes further technical evaluation of the licence and 
the drilling of an additional well. 
ukraine market and Regal’s approach to 
unlocking Value
Ukraine is very well positioned geographically, bridging the gas 
supplies of Russia and the markets of Europe. With the 
European Union (“EU”) on Ukraine’s western border and Russia 
on the east, approximately 80% of Russian gas exports to the 
EU travel via pipeline across the country, and gas infrastructure 
is extensive. Regal is confident about the domestic demand for 
its gas as the expected production from the MEX-GOL and SV 
licences rises. Consumption in Ukraine over the last 15 years or 
so has been reasonably static with nearly 80% of demand being 
satisfied by imported gas. Regal’s predicted increase in 
2009 — a year in Review
Ukraine continues to be, by far, the main focus of operational 
activity and investment. The thrust of Regal’s strategy is to apply 
modern technology, supported by highly experienced industry 
professionals, in a region that has not, hitherto, seen such 
widespread application. The first of a planned series of new-
generation wells, was spud in the first quarter of 2009. Two new, 
top-drive, 2,000 hp drilling rigs were contracted from Saipem 
S.p.A. (ENI Group) and four wells were spud during the year — 
MEX-106, SV-58, SV-61 and SV-66. Drilling performance has 
out-stripped all previous drilling activity on the licences (up to four 
times faster for equivalent depth) and it is expected that as a 
result of the learning acquired, new wells should be drilled faster 
resulting in future cost reductions. Furthermore, the new wells 
have been able to penetrate deeper owing to the capacity of the 
new rigs and the Company has started to gain data on possible 
upside from the Tournasian and Devonian age potential reservoirs. 
There has inevitably been some degree of initial teething 
problems and challenges, but these are considered to be  
learning curve frustrations rather than fundamental problems,  
and are to be expected in the first few wells drilled with such  
new technology. These are the initial wells in a planned long term 
programme that is expected to continue into and beyond the  
next decade. However, given the quality and experience of the 
operations team on the ground, supported by senior professionals 
in London, solutions have been found, most notably in the jet 
perforating technique which was first applied to SV-58. Following 
an intermittent and poor flow from this well when first perforated 
using local, conventional guns, a liquidised, sand-based, jet-
perforating process successfully trialled on two thin B-Sands, was 
subsequently rolled out over the remaining target reservoirs. This 
was further enhanced with Stimtube fracturing (again, a first in the 
Ukraine) resulting in significant improvements in production rates. 
The field is relatively deep and the stratigraphic nature of the 
reservoirs complex, but the structure is large and geographically 
extensive. The challenge now is to unlock the upside potential 
that is believed to exist in both the B and T-Sands, with each new 
well providing further refinement of our geological understanding.  12
ReGal PeTROleum PlC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
17759	 07/05/10	 Proof	5
Our Business
Chief executive Officer’s Statement continued
amendments to the price cap and correspondingly Regal’s 
realised price had been made. The realised gas price for Regal 
in 2009 was higher than the imported price.
Future Strategy
During 2009, Regal continued to pursue the strategy that was 
established during the previous year in the development of its 
Ukrainian assets. Despite the worldwide recession and resultant 
stemming of liquidity in global financial markets that has tested 
many companies, Regal has continued to follow its initial 
objectives to try to unlock the true value of its Ukrainian assets. 
This foundation should provide a stable platform for significant 
future growth in production and increased revenues, with such 
increasing production giving a positive earnings outlook. The 
Company continues to have no debt and sufficient cash and 
materials to maintain operating activity into the foreseeable future.
However, the experience gained in the drilling of the first four new 
generation wells, and particularly in drilling to the deeper sections 
in the wells on the SV field where drilling conditions have proven 
to be challenging at depth, has caused the Company to re-
evaluate and refine its objectives for the development of the 
Ukrainian field. In this regard, the Company has determined that 
its immediate primary focus should be on securing production 
from the B-Sands reservoirs in both the MEX-GOL and SV fields. 
Appraisal of the T and D-Sands in the MEX-GOL field will be 
carried out on the MEX-106 well, where work-over operations are 
planned to complete the perforation of the B, T and D-Sands 
using advanced perforation techniques and to replace the well 
completion. It is considered that by focussing on increasing 
production from the B-Sands and the resultant operational 
revenue in the near term, the Company will be able to establish 
sustainable business growth by conserving and ultimately building 
its cash position and retaining maximum optionality, whilst 
continuing to evaluate the most effective method of appraising 
the potential upside of the deeper T and D-Sands in the future.
Accordingly, the Company has determined to complete the SV-66 
well as a B-Sands production well, whilst deferring the appraisal 
of the T and D-Sands in this and subsequent new wells to allow 
further work to be undertaken in the assessment of the most 
effective method of appraising the deeper T and D-Sands.  
I would like to thank our shareholders for their continued 
support, particularly during such a turbulent period. Regal is also 
indebted to the commitment and hard work of all of its staff and 
contractors who have worked tirelessly and professionally to 
understand the sub-surface and thereby begin to realise the true 
potential of our operated assets in Ukraine and Romania.
production as each successful well is brought into production 
could, in due course, be material in terms of domestic supply, but 
will still be small in comparison with imported volumes, which 
heavily influence domestic prices. Importantly, Ukrainian fiscal 
terms actively encourage exploitation of domestic reserves and, 
particularly, through the royalty regime, the recovery of deep gas 
and condensate.
Production has risen from below 500 boepd in the fourth 
quarter of 2008 to over 2,000 boepd by January 2010. This 
represents the first contributions from the significant drilling 
investment which began in earnest in 2009. The overall 
philosophy of the Company is to use modern technology, much 
of which has not been applied in Ukraine previously, to drill wells 
both faster and deeper, thereby increasing and accelerating 
production and, consequently, revenues. This approach, if 
successful, should enhance the economic value of anticipated 
future cash flows and is expected to result in earlier enhanced 
revenues than from conventional, local drilling practice. In terms 
of investment, the bulk of the cost lies in the capital expenditure 
for the drilling and completion of these new wells. Conversely, 
the surface infrastructure and variable operating costs are 
relatively low, since the gas and condensate require little surface 
treatment and the sales of gas are made from the licence 
boundary, free of additional transportation tariffs or costs.
The political situation in Ukraine has continued to attract market 
attention in the run-up to the Presidential elections which 
concluded with the former Prime Minister, Mr Viktor Yanukovych, 
taking office as President in February 2010 and a new governing 
coalition being formed. Regal has operated with the support of 
both Regional and National Government for a number of years, 
including the period when Mr Yanukovych held the position of 
Prime Minister prior to the “Orange Revolution”, and accordingly 
the Company remains confident in the business environment and 
is committed to supporting the development of Ukraine and to 
maintaining a strong relationship with the Government at all levels.
Following the formation of the new Government, there are 
already indications of an improvement in relations between 
Ukraine and Russia. This is reflected in the recent dialogue 
between their respective Governments which has resulted in a 
review of the current imported gas price from Russia and a fall in 
the imported gas price from Russia to Ukraine for the remainder 
of 2010. As a consequence, the weighted average anticipated 
price for 2010 is likely to be similar or slightly higher than the 
average price for 2009 because the year to date price for 2010 
has been considerably higher than the 2009 average price. It 
should be noted that the imported price is distinct from the 
domestic internal prices that are capped by the Ukrainian 
authorities. As at the time of preparing this report, no  13
Our Performance 
Chairman’s Statement 
Chief Executives Review
Stockcode: RPT www.regalpetroleum.co.uk
17759	 07/05/10	 Proof	5
Our Business 
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
“The application of new technology and the appointment 
of experienced professionals with a wealth of industry 
experience continue to drive the Company forward. during 
2009, four new generation wells were spud in ukraine 
and by January 2010 production had risen to 2,072 boepd 
following the hook-up of SV-58.”  14
ReGal PeTROleum PlC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
17759	 07/05/10	 Proof	5
