 05
Our Performance 
Chairman’s Statement 
Chief Executives Review
Stockcode: RPT www.regalpetroleum.co.uk
17759	 07/05/10	 Proof	5
Our Business 
Chairman’s Statement
January 2010. Alastair brings a wealth of oil and gas 
experience, predominantly from his time with BP where, prior to 
his retirement in 2009, he was leader of BP’s Russia business 
unit and was BP’s shareholder representative for the TNK-BP 
joint venture. He holds a PhD in Geology from the University of 
Edinburgh, an MBA from the University of Strathclyde and an 
MA in Natural Sciences from the University of Cambridge. 
Consequently, Alastair adds real depth of technical and regional 
knowledge to the Non-Executive team.
Also in January 2010, Lord Anthony St John of Bletso and  
Mr Antonio Mozetic stepped down as Non-Executive Directors 
of the Company due to other business and personal 
commitments. On behalf of the Board, I would like to sincerely 
thank both Anthony and Tony for their valued contributions and 
advice during their tenure and we wish them well in the future.
The Board now comprises three Executive and three Non-
Executive Directors, whose details and experience are set out 
on pages 30 and 31.
Outlook
As detailed later in this Report, the considerable experience gained 
whilst drilling the new generation wells in Ukraine and developing 
the novel techniques to improve their perforation, has enabled us 
to re-evaluate our immediate strategy whereby the majority of our 
resources will be concentrated on developing the B-Sands. Two of 
the initial four wells have recently been brought into production 
and the two remaining wells are expected to be completed shortly. 
During 2010 we plan to drill two additional wells in Ukraine, two 
in Romania and one in Egypt. 
Although global financial markets are expected to remain 
challenging, the team at Regal have the skills and experience 
necessary to build on the operational progress recently 
achieved, and to continue to grow the Company in future years. 
The results achieved to date are thanks to the dedication, 
professionalism and commitment of our staff and contractors 
and also with the support of our shareholders. On behalf of the 
Board, I would like to offer my sincere appreciation to them all.
I am pleased to introduce the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts. 
Despite a very difficult worldwide financial environment, the 
Company has continued to pursue its strategy of investment and 
growth through the application of modern technology, supported 
by its team of highly experienced industry professionals. Revenues, 
at $19.9 million are up 74% on the prior year, despite a lower 
average condensate price. Gross profit has increased 136% and 
the net loss after tax has been cut from $50.8 million in 2008 to 
$9.8 million in 2009. Although the quantum of this improvement in 
the Company’s financial performance is relatively modest for now, 
it is clear that a number of major milestones were successfully 
achieved during 2009. Since the year end we have seen 
significant success with the testing of the SV-58 well which, if 
replicated through the planned 2010 programme, offers a positive 
earnings outlook. Technical challenges remain in accessing the 
deeper reservoirs and we intend to focus our investment 
programme on building production whilst evaluating the 
considerable resource upside in a cost effective manner. The first 
four of a series of new generation wells were spud on Regal’s 
Ukrainian licences during the year, using two, modern, 2,000 hp 
top-drive rigs contracted from Saipem S.p.A.. The introduction of 
these new rigs has not only enabled us to substantially reduce the 
time historically taken to drill these wells in Ukraine, but also 
affords us the opportunity to appraise the deeper, potential 
resources. Our current strategy of focussing in the near term on 
developing the shallower B-Sands to increase our gas production 
bodes well in a market that is heavily dependent on imported gas 
and where the Ukrainian Government is keen to encourage the 
growth of domestic production.
Board Changes
I have pleasure in welcoming Dr Alastair Graham to the Board 
as a Non-Executive Director, following his appointment in 
a number of 
milestones 
achieved
Our Business
Chairman’s Statement
Keith Henry
