 General review
This year has seen significant positive changes to the Abacus
Group. The acquisition of Deltron Electronics plc in January
and Axess Technology in April gave Abacus a position in
Germany and France, (the 1st and 4th largest markets in
Europe, respectively, according to Europartners report 2005)
and in the smaller markets of Austria and Benelux as well as
a strengthened position in the UK, Scandinavia and Italy.
Axess further strengthened the Group’s position in France
and enhanced the sales of Displays and Wireless Modules,
product areas that are a key part of the growth strategy of
Abacus. The Abacus Group now has a position in all of the
major markets within Europe and according to Europartners
is the 5th largest distributor of electronic components to the
industrial market. Whilst we are delighted to have a presence
in the major markets which we believe will bring, over time,
additional benefits to the Group with regard to customer and
franchise coverage, we do not intend to portray ourselves as
a Pan European distributor. That creates an impression of a
business trying to be the same as our major competitors, the
USA based global distributors, something we are definitely not.
Our strategy is driven by a recognition that the countries in
Europe, and the regions within those countries, have different
languages and cultures and to be successful one must work
with these differences. In order to continue to grow and
increase our penetration of these markets Abacus must
create differences between itself and its competitors that
the customers and suppliers recognise as being of benefit to
them. Abacus will therefore continue with its policy of having
regionally based sales offices supported by regionally based
product experts offering comprehensive technical and design
in support, and local warehouses to fulfil the demands of each
individual market. Our goal is to be seen as the leading strong
local distributor in all the markets in which we operate. The
differences detailed above combined with our approach
of selling to all customers irrespective of their size or their
sector (we have approximately 20,000 trading customers
across Europe), and our broad diversified product range
(approximately 180 different franchises across the Group)
are key to Abacus achieving this and creating a differentiated
platform on which the Group can grow both organically and
through further acquisition.
We are confident that the industry is now recognising our
market position and our differentiated model, and at the recent
European Electronics Industry Awards we were delighted to be
chosen as Distributor of the Year 2006.
We have set ourselves a target of having a minimum 5%
market share in all of the major countries as we believe that
at this level Abacus will be a significant player on the market
whereby customers will wish to consider us as a strategic
supplier and franchisors will want to speak to us because
of our customer coverage.
Review by region
UK & Ireland
We have a very strong presence on this market with,
according to Europartners 2005, a 13.6% market share
putting us firmly in the top 3 distribution businesses. The
Deltron operation was integrated into the Abacus business
at the end of May 2006 and this opened up the opportunity
for the combined company to sell all products. The Abacus
Group product offering covers a very broad range of electronic
Chief Executive’s Review
Abacus Group Stand – Electronica 2006
“
The Abacus Group now has in excess of 3% of the total European component market for distribution
and a position in all the major markets that will create opportunities for organic growth through
cross-selling of products and geographic franchise expansion. However, the top 10 distribution
companies in Europe, of which Abacus is number 5, only take 61% of the market and we believe that
there exists a good opportunity for further consolidation within the distribution market and that the
Abacus Group is well positioned to take advantage of these opportunities.
”
6 Abacus Group plc components, wireless modules, displays and software
enabling us to supply a multitude of customers across a
wide range of industrial sectors. We maintain the different
businesses within this market (Abacus, Micromark, TDC,
Trident) to ensure we bring the appropriate level of technical
expertise to the different products but increasingly all
products are being sold by each business creating significant
opportunities for organic growth. We combine this opportunity
with a regular review of technology development within
the electronic component market and within the end user
industrial sectors to ensure our product offering is kept up to
date and meets the needs of existing and future customers.
This applies not only to the UK but to the entire Group.
The acquisition of Deltron also enhanced our existing
manufacturing operations and these have all been combined
into one business unit for sales and marketing purposes and
rebranded Alpha 3 Manufacturing. These businesses and our
own brand businesses, Dubilier (existing Abacus brand), Eledis
and Emcon (Deltron brand), are another part of our strategy to
create differences to our major competitors.
France
The Abacus Group gained a presence in the French market
through the acquisition of Deltron in January 2006. This was
quickly enhanced by the acquisition of Axess Technology
(comprising two companies, Axess and RDI) in April 2006
creating a position of being the 5th largest distribution
business in France with a market share of 5.6% (according
to Europartners 2005).
These three companies have a strong product offering
with Abacus Deltron representing a broad range of
electromechanical products, Abacus RDI being a passive
specialist and Axess supplying an excellent range of display,
wireless modules and niche semiconductors. The Axess
business is very similar in the products it sells and its
approach to the market of the UK based Trident and TDC
businesses and these companies work closely together
with regard to product and industry sector development.
All three businesses in France are now using the same
IT platform and the warehouses have been integrated
into one based on the outskirts of Paris.
During the Quarter ending March 2007, the sales and
marketing teams of RDI and Deltron will be combined,
creating cross-selling opportunities and a stronger business
which, over time, can be enhanced with the addition of a
number of new franchises currently held by the Abacus
Group in other regions.
Customer Sectors
Power 2%
Contract Manufacturing (Global) 3%
Defence 1%
Automotive 3%
Consumer 2%
Lighting 1%
Avionics 1%
Navigation 1%
Thermoregulation 1%
Others 3%
Contract Manufacturing (Local) 28%
Ind Control 18%
Instrumentation 7%
Fire & Security 6%
Printer Peripheral 4%
Comms 5%
Audio Visual 5%
Medical 4%
Distribution 5%
7 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Scandinavia
The acquisition of Deltron in January 2006 had a major
impact on the presence of the existing Abacus business in
Scandinavia, enhancing its product offering with the addition
of a number of leading electro-mechanical manufacturers, and
strengthening its position on the market to the 6th largest
distribution business with a market share across the region
of 4% (according to Europartners 2005).
In Sweden and Norway the two businesses were integrated
in August 2006 under the banner of Abacus Scandinavia,
creating a much wider portfolio of products to be sold to all
customers. The IT system is the same as that utilised in the
UK and Denmark creating efficiencies in support functions
such as purchasing. All Scandinavian warehouses have been
integrated into one facility in Denmark, today the largest sales
region in Scandinavia for Abacus.
In Denmark, the existing Abacus Promax business has also
been re-named Abacus Scandinavia and using the same IT
platform as Sweden and Norway has enhanced its product
offering with access to the Deltron products from those
regions. Today the existing Deltron business, Conelec, has
remained separate to the Abacus Scandinavia companies in
terms of IT and sales and marketing as its approach to the
market is one of selling more customer specific assemblies
rather than single components and we believe this
specialisation is worth maintaining and developing.
We have during the year continued to develop the Trident
business in Scandinavia and our wireless module and software
sales through the Abacus business. Increasingly these
businesses work more closely together and the Trident
personnel are located in the Abacus offices creating, as we
have in other regions, a broad product offering that is available
to all customers giving many opportunities for organic growth.
Italy
The situation in Italy is very similar to that of Scandinavia. The
acquisition of Deltron has improved our position on the market
to that of the 5th largest distribution business with a market
share of 3% (according to Europartners 2005). We have
completed the integration of the Deltron business into the
existing Abacus operation and now have a common sales
and marketing team, IT system and warehouse, creating a
business with a stronger product offering that goes to market
under the brand of Abacus ECC.
We are also continuing to develop the sale of display, wireless
modules and software, and this combined with our stronger
position on the market, will bring opportunities to further
strengthen our product offering, creating a good environment
for organic growth.
Germany
The Europartners 2005 report shows that the German market
for industrial electronic component distribution is the largest
within Europe, being twice the size of the 2nd, the UK, and
representing 27% of the total available market.
The acquisition of Deltron brought us a small presence in this
market with a business that has two offices in Munich and
Stuttgart, and a market share of some 1%.
The products sold by Abacus Deltron are from a small number
of leading electro-mechanical component manufacturers,
some of which have an existing relationship in other countries
with the original Abacus Group, and our primary focus during
the coming year will be to seek opportunities to develop in
this market to move towards our goal of achieving a minimum
5% market share.
Just after the year end Abacus announced that it had
recruited a new General Manager for Abacus Deltron
Germany, and had enhanced the sales and marketing team
with the recruitment of an additional 14 people, all of whom
had previously worked together within the component
distribution industry. These people are located across
Germany and Abacus is in the process of opening an
additional 3 regionally based sales offices, in line with
the Group’s strategy, to give an improved coverage of
the total market.
Abacus Group plc
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
Abacus Group – Distributor of the Year, Elektra Award 2006
8 It is believed that this wider coverage of the market will create
organic growth opportunities from the existing product offering
but over time, combined with the much improved position 
of the Abacus Group within Europe, will also bring new
franchises to the German market.
Abacus will also continue to seek further acquisition
opportunities in this market.
Austria
Austria is a small but important market within Europe and the
Deltron acquisition brought us a sales and marketing presence
through an office based in Vienna, being served by the
warehouse in Munich.
Abacus has enhanced its team by the recruitment after the
year end of a new General Manager and two additional sales
personnel, all of whom previously worked with the new team
in Germany. This will bring the Company a number of organic
growth opportunities that will improve the approximately 1%
market share that Abacus has today.
Benelux
Benelux is the 8th largest market in Europe and the Abacus
Group had an existing presence with a Trident sales office in
Holland. The acquisition of Deltron brought an additional sales
office in Holland served by the UK warehouse.
The Abacus Deltron office has been converted to use the
same IT platform as that used in the UK and Scandinavia in
June 2006 and during the early part of 2007 Abacus will move
both Trident and Abacus Deltron into the same office and onto
the same IT system creating a wider product portfolio for the
sales team to sell to all customers, giving us the opportunity 
to organically improve the current 1% market share.
Hong Kong
The office in Hong Kong, established at the beginning of 2006,
has been a significant contributor to the success Abacus has
had in continuing to supply components to the customers
who design and purchase in Europe but manufacture in the
Asia Pacific region. We believe this trend will continue albeit 
at a slower rate than previous years and the Company 
remain confident that the European market for component
distribution, estimated in 2005 at €11.4 billion by Europartners,
will continue to be a good market in which to operate.
IT
Our objective is to have all Abacus Group companies, other
than our Alpha 3 Manufacturing division, on the same IT
platform to enable us to take advantage of the efficiencies 
and synergies that this brings. Today this is clearly not the
case and achieving this objective is a major focus for Abacus
senior management.
We will continue with the upgrade of our existing UK system,
so that when the roll out is complete this system will meet all
the needs of the growing business, including operating in the
local language.
Staff
This year has seen a number of positive changes to the
Abacus Group and in recognition of this we have, during the
year, taken the opportunity to strengthen the management
team in all areas of the business creating a structure that is
extremely well positioned to take advantage of the growth
opportunities that we are creating.
Market
We measure on a daily basis the Bookings across the Group
through a long established Management Reporting system, 
as these are a key indicator of what is happening within our
customers and the markets in which we operate. As detailed
in the Chairman’s report, the UK market in 2006 had a
sluggish start but improved as we moved into the 2nd and 3rd
quarters of our year and overall our Book to Bill ratio for the
complete year stood at 1.09.
We start the new year with our Book to Bill ratio remaining
positive and with our daily rate above that of 2005.
The Abacus Group now has in excess of 3% of the total
European component market for distribution and a position in
all the major markets that will create opportunities for organic
growth through cross-selling of products and geographic
franchise expansion.
However, the top 10 distribution companies in Europe, of
which Abacus is number 5, only take 61% of the market
(according to Europartners 2005) and we believe that there
exists a good opportunity for further consolidation within 
the distribution market and that the Abacus Group is well
positioned to take advantage of these opportunities.
M Kent
Chief Executive Officer
30 November 2006
9 Annual Report & Accounts 2006
