 I am pleased to report that Abacus Group plc’s performance
in the year ended 30 September 2006 outperformed
expectations expressed at the time of our Interim Report.
Two acquisitions and their successful integration ahead
of schedule, have been the most significant events in the
year. Turnover amounted to £257.1 million, an increase of
£78.3 million over the previous year, although the annual
comparisons are enhanced by the acquisition of Deltron
Electronics plc in January 2006 and by the subsequent
purchase of Axess Technology Group in April. These new
subsidiaries contributed £75.5 million to the total Group sales
and £6.5 million to the Group operating profit for the year
which totalled £14.7 million, pre amortisation and exceptionals
(£2.7 million, post amortisation and exceptionals). They were
also responsible for the improvement in gross margin (pre
exceptional items) which increased from 24.4% of sales in
2005 to 25.2% in 2006 (post exceptional 24.9% compared to
22.5% in 2005). We expect some further margin enhancement
in 2007 as the result of a full year’s contribution from both
Deltron and Axess. It was anticipated at the time of the
acquisitions that earnings would reduce in the short term but
in the event there was no earnings dilution in 2006 compared
to 2005, with earnings per share (pre exceptionals and
amortisation) remaining at 13.6p per share (post exceptional
and amortisation, 0.0p per share (2005: 6.1p)). At the year
end, net borrowings, at £66.1 million (including £4.6 million
deferred consideration loan notes), were in line with
expectations.
The integration of the Deltron and Axess businesses and the
accompanying reorganisation have been completed ahead
of schedule and have delivered the target of £5.5 million
annualised cost savings. In the 2006 financial year, the benefit
of integration savings was some £1.6 million. In order to
secure these savings, including the reorganisation of Trident
to exit the higher risk finished product business and refocus
on distribution and value added opportunities, a one-off
exceptional cost of £9.4 million has been incurred. However,
as shown above, the benefits going forward will be material.
The dividend will remain unchanged for 2006 with a proposed
final dividend of 3.6p, making a total for the year of 7.2p
(2005: 7.2p). Looking to the future, we intend to return to a
policy of increasing the dividend as cash flow improves and
debt is reduced.
Trading in 2006
The UK market for electronic components was sluggish in
the early months of our financial year but appeared to have
stabilised by March and thereafter an improvement was seen
which continued through the summer months. For Abacus this
resulted in a sales increase of 2% for our total UK business
although the figure would have been higher but for the
decision to withdraw from Trident’s finished product business.
In Italy our team at ECC was successful in growing sales by
4%, but in Nordic, Promax sales fell by 14%, some of which
can be attributed to the decision to close the business in
Chairman's Statement
“
The integration of the Deltron and Axess businesses and the accompanying reorganisation
have been completed ahead of schedule and have delivered the target of £5.5 million annualised
cost savings.
”
4 Abacus Group plc Finland in 2005. However, the 2005 reorganisation of Promax
and its integration with the Deltron businesses in Sweden
and Norway will result in a larger and much more solid
organisation. Indeed the prospects for all the European
territories look promising with the strengthening of the existing
Abacus companies and the additions of France and Germany,
where previously we had no presence. Since the year end
Germany has not only been reorganised but also considerably
enlarged by the recruitment of a high quality team from within
the industry.
In the Far East our operation in Hong Kong has been
reinforced with stronger management and we are seeing the
benefits of maintaining business with customers who move
offshore. We have been successful in growing the value of
shipments to mainland China and other territories in Asia.
Outlook
The Group now has a broader operations base, a wider mix of
product and greater depth of management. The geographical
spread has also changed radically during the past year. In
2007 the Abacus Group sales will no longer be dominated by
the UK with nearly half the business being overseas. All these
factors considerably enhance the opportunities for us going
forward as well as delivering a more cost effective and higher
margin business. In these circumstances the Board has
confidence for the future.
This year I am particularly grateful to the management 
and staff and congratulate them on an outstanding
performance in acquiring and integrating two complex
businesses while maintaining a strong performance from 
the existing businesses. I also welcome our new colleagues
who have also made such a valuable contribution.
A H Westropp
Chairman
30 November 2006
5 Annual Report & Accounts 2006
