 6 ascribe plc • ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
Chief
Executive’s
Report
The business has a good order book, 
a strong sales pipeline reinforced by an
excellent record of winning public tenders, 
a healthy record of providing follow-on
products to existing customers and a
recurring maintenance contract income
level running at 61% of sales in the period.
£6.8m
2005 Pro forma* turnover
2006
OBJECTIVES
Maximise sales opportunities coming from
Group products
Drive further efficiencies from consolidated
Group operations
Deliver products from a common platform
Continue to acquire companies in
complementary markets
Stephen Critchlow
Chief Executive
Strategy
With over 50% of UK hospital pharmacies
using the Ascribe software, Ascribe has a
unique position in the medicines management
market. Our product includes software to
improve the safe handling and administration of
medicines as well as knowledge databases to
support decision making, when medicines are
prescribed, dispensed and administered.
Strong organic growth can be achieved by
cross selling our solutions to our current
customers who do not have this capability at
present. This gives us access to a market
which is in excess of £1bn in the UK alone. Our
overseas customers provide routes to markets
in Australia, New Zealand and South East Asia. 
The ability to achieve organic growth through
cross-sales comes from Ascribe’s web-based
Integrated Clinical Workstation “ICW” software
which also provides an integration capability
allowing the Group to move to a single product
strategy by controlled evolution. Firstly by
integrating the legacy applications and then by
replacing them over time. Using this approach
Ascribe can grow shareholder value when
acquiring other businesses in the Health IT
sector by improving their solution offering and
sales revenue, and optimising their overheads.
This focused product-strategy means that the
IT healthcare businesses which Ascribe has
and will acquire, can be rapidly integrated into
our model, providing an excellent offering and
additional benefits for patients, healthcare
professionals, employees and ultimately our
shareholders.
Operations
Since flotation we have organised the Group
into three divisions – Pharmacy, Mental 
Health & Community Care and Primary &
Unscheduled Care. These divisions benefit 
from a group sales and product strategy.
Common services across the Group are
managed to improve performance and deliver
economies of scale.
We have built a strong operational
management team which is actively
consolidating the Group and has demonstrated
efficiencies ahead of our initial expectations.
We are able to invest £1m in ongoing R&D
with a profit before tax of £1.3m and an
excellent cash conversion of 198%. I would
like to thank all the employees for the
commitment and energy they have put into
delivering these results and creating such a
healthy platform for growth.
Our overseas operations provide a route to
market for the integrated product. We will be
launching the new web-based pharmacy and
ICW software in our overseas markets in
November 2005.
Pharmacy
The Pharmacy Division comprises the
traditional hospital and retail pharmacy
markets together with the emerging
opportunities in ward-based electronic
prescribing. The Division has a market leading
position in UK hospital pharmacy with Ascribe
software installed in more than 50% of
hospitals. With the acquisition of Park
Systems, the Group now also supplies retail
pharmacy customers. In addition the Division
has systems in 41 hospitals in South East
Asia and Australasia, where it has a sales
office in Brisbane.
The Division has enjoyed continued organic
growth during the year. New software
solutions have been installed and are in 
live usage at 27 new sites. With unique
functionality and access to a clinical decision
support database the ascribe product has
won nearly 90% of the tendering activity in
this market in recent years. Its modern
architecture facilitates simple integration 
with other hospital systems. An experienced
operations team, which includes a high
proportion of pharmacists, ensures that
implementations are efficient and effective 
for the customer. Further sales are expected
where the new medicines management and
electronic prescribing systems are sold to
existing pharmacy customers. 7 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 • ascribe plc
The Ascribe web-based solution supports the
Christie team by enabling them to make more
informed clinical decisions, based upon the
shared availability of clinical and drug information
for each patient. The project began in November
2004 and the first clinic was live within six
months. The Trust-wide rollout is scheduled for
early 2006.
“Our aim for the first phase of this project was to
ensure we could safely prescribe and administer
medicines electronically for the breast cancer
clinics. Our team has adapted well to the new
Ascribe software and we are starting to realise
the benefits it offers.” June So, Chief Pharmacist
The Christie Hospital in
Manchester is the largest
single-site cancer treatment
centre in Europe, providing
care for 3.2 million people, and
is internationally renowned in
all aspects of cancer care.
The Christie Hospital made the
decision to implement electronic
prescribing and medicines
administration to improve clinical
safety and the quality of service
delivered to patients.
Pharmacy
automating processes to save lives
of 2005 revenue is generated by recurring
maintenance contracts with customers 
in the UK and overseas
61 %
Professionalism and expertise
Mental Health and Community Care
Over 100 primary care trusts in the UK and
Ireland use the Group’s solutions. With a track
record of delivering for over 20 years, ePEX 
is seen as a leader in the Mental Health IT
market. We are already delivering Ascribe’s
new web-based medicines management
solution for drug misuse and customer
feedback has been excellent. These solutions
are expected to comprise a significant
element of the division’s organic growth in 
the coming year.
Healthcare Trusts are widening the usage 
of care systems in the community. Many
customers have therefore extended their
software licences to include further users 
and modules. This increases recurring
maintenance revenue and has been
accelerated by improved system functionality,
particularly in the sphere of web-based
electronic care management modules.
Increasingly, field-based mental health and
child care clinicians are using our systems,
day to day, to treat patients in the community. 8 ascribe plc • ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
Chief
Executive’s
Report continued
The results represent a very pleasing start
to life as a public company.
Go Live!
27 new hospital pharmacy systems 
went live in the year
Primary and Unscheduled Care
This Division delivers software to accident &
emergency (A&E) departments, minor injuries
clinics and GP practices throughout the UK
and Ireland. 
The GP system is supported by a loyal user
group who use traditional GP management
software. Primary care processes are
changing considerably and Ascribe is
committed to offering flexible software
solutions to the new ways of working. This 
is being driven by a move to commission
healthcare services from larger and more
capable facilities in the community, offering
unscheduled care such as treating minor
injuries. In May 2005 Ascribe acquired
Footman Walker, which supplies software 
to 30% of A&E departments in the 
UK as well as some of the newer minor
injuries units.  Since acquisition, contracts for
four new sites have been won, demonstrating
the growth potential within this Division. We
are also developing software to serve the
needs of newer GP surgeries where extra
functionality is required.
This approach has been designed to
complement the NHS “Connecting for Health”
programme.
The recent sales orders for A&E solutions
have taken this business to a record sales
level as it moves into the delivery phase of its
latest system offering, “Symphony”.
Symphony is based on the same Microsoft
technologies as the Ascribe products and will
be rapidly integrated to enable a single
product offering.
Product Strategy
Our web-based medicines management
solution will be integrated with the current
product offerings of our recent acquisitions,
providing an ideal vehicle to deliver integrated
modules as follow-on sales to current
customers. The reorganisation of the
development operation will ensure that 
Ascribe can offer a single product to any 
health IT market.
Growth arising from this strategy is expected 
to be delivered progressively over the next 
five years. Using the Group’s overseas
development team in tandem with UK staff 
that has domain knowledge, will mean that
our development resource will be optimised
and will be more effective in its delivery. This
strategy will enable development teams from
incremental acquisitions to quickly reap the
benefits of scale and a common software
architecture.
Sales and Marketing
We have a healthy sales pipeline against the
products currently available. Customers are
demanding integration and clinical functionality
to address changes in healthcare, where
systems become organised around the needs
of both patients and the healthcare
organisation. Ascribe’s Medicines Management
software delivers the functionality required to
address the needs of our customers today
and also delivers integration that can be used
to deliver other products from our merged
Group, seamlessly, to the customer without 
re-development.  9 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 • ascribe plc
Solihull PCT required an IT system to 
support their implementation of the “Single
Assessment Process” (SAP) which would
allow patient information to be drawn
together from separate systems and shared
across both health and local authority
services within the community. An Ardentia
Data Warehouse was selected for this
purpose and a secure messaging method
was devised to transfer patient data from
ePEX and Care First over the NHS Net into
the Warehouse, providing a common view 
on demographics and referrals, SAP
information, specialist assessments and 
care plans. The e-PEX 3 system went live
with this functionality on 28th June 2005.
“I am pleased that the development has met
its primary objectives and a number of
additional benefits are also being discussed,
including other opportunities for sharing data
that benefits the patient” Neil Serougi,
Director of IT Services, Solihull PCT.
Solihull Primary Care Trust
(PCT) was formed in 2001 to
bring together all those who
deliver care and advice in the
community, such as GP’s,
nurses and therapists, together
with Learning Disabilities and
Child Health within one
organization, making things
simpler for patients.
Solihull PCT serves a population
of around 212,000, registered at
31 GP practices.
Mental Health and
Community Care
Professionalism and expertise
Business Development
Strong organic growth is coming from selling
our departmental and clinical systems directly
to clinicians. Customers are demanding an
integrated approach to patient care from a
responsive supplier that can be flexible as
health systems change both in the NHS 
and overseas.
Ongoing acquisitions of companies that can
use Ascribe IT solutions to enhance delivery 
to their customers, or who can add to this
product offering, will put Ascribe in a dominant
position as a clinical systems provider.
Stephen Critchlow
Chief Executive
22 September 2005 
