 4 ascribe plc • ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
I am delighted to present Ascribe’s first
annual report since its admission to 
AIM on 17 December 2004. The Group
has made significant progress in the
medicines management market and 
has delivered excellent financial results for
the year, surpassing initial expectations. 
This success comes from strong organic
growth and impressive value yielded from
the acquisitions made at, and since,
flotation.
Trading Results
2005 has been a remarkably successful year
for the Group. Following an earlier period of
significant investment in software development,
the company has been able to apply greater
focus on creating and pursuing sales
opportunities. Turnover has increased by 89%
to £5.3m (2004: £2.8m). Operating profit of
£0.7m (2004: (£0.4m)) represents a £1.1m
turnaround in profitability over the previous year.
In order to provide a better understanding of
our trading results we have prepared a pro
forma profit and loss account which is set 
out in the Financial Review on page 10. This
shows the results of the Group as if it had
been trading in its form at flotation for a full
twelve months with the three acquisitions
made in May and June being included in the
results from their dates of acquisition. I am
very pleased to report that the pro forma profit
before tax and the amortisation of goodwill
has grown to £1.3m in the year to 30 June
2005 from a profit of £0.2m in 2004. This has
been due to continued organic growth in sales
of our medicines management software, the
expansion of the group and the delivery of
synergies and economies of scale from
transforming the enlarged group into flexible
and efficient divisions able to call upon key
and common resources. 
Sales revenue visibility is robust with 61% of
pro forma revenues for the current year being
derived from recurring maintenance contracts
and a further 17% of account development
revenue from existing customers. The Group
continues to perform very well in the tenders 
for which it competes.
Pro forma adjusted basic earnings per share
in 2005 increased to 1.0p from 0.3p in 2004.
The Group’s balance sheet is strong with net
cash at 30 June 2005 of £2.7m. Operating
cashflow for the year represented 198% of
operating profits.
Chairman’s
Statement
The management team has demonstrated
their ability to maximise profit from
acquisitions whilst delivering strong organic
growth and an exciting product strategy
Admission to AIM
17 December 2004
Acquisition of Protechnic Exeter,
a health IT business serving 
100 Primary Care Trusts and 
140 GPs
17 December 2004
Key appointments increase
strength and experience of the
senior management team
10 May 2005
Chris Moore
Non-executive Chairman 5 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 • ascribe plc
Acquisition of Park Systems, 
UK leading independent retail
pharmacy computer systems
supplier
21 June 2005
Company announces a 548%
increase in pro forma* profit
before tax** to £1.3m
23 September 2005
Strategic move into Accident &
Emergency with acquisition of 
Footman Walker Associates
20 May 2005
2005 has been a remarkably successful
year for the Group
Management and Staff
During the period since flotation we have
established a strong plc board and an
effective operating management team who 
are well positioned to deliver enhanced
shareholder value from the enlarged Group. 
In an increasingly competitive environment,
attention to the needs of patients and
customers becomes increasingly important
and I would like to thank all of our employees
for their hard work during the year which has
helped us to maintain our market leading
position in medicines management.
Dividends
The Board has decided to recommend a
progressive dividend policy that shares some 
of the trading success with shareholders
whilst recognising the requirement for cash 
to pursue further acquisitions. The Board
recommends a first and final dividend of 
0.1p per share. Subject to approval by the
shareholders at the AGM on 26 October 2005
this dividend will be paid on 27 October 2005
to shareholders on the register at the close of
business on 7 October 2005.
Current Trading and Outlook
Ascribe has started the new financial year
trading in line with management expectations
and we expect to continue to deliver value 
for our customers and their patients, our
shareholders and our employees. Our strategy
for growth, based on adding companies with
earnings-enhancing IT solutions to our existing
core medicines management business,
provides a growing platform from which to
deliver enhanced growth in the coming years.
The company has already begun to benefit
from synergistic sales opportunities between
products and healthcare markets,
demonstrating the value of solid organic
growth and a more cohesive set of healthcare
solutions to our customers and investors.
We enter the new financial year with excellent
visibility of earnings - an order book at record
levels, a strong bank of tendering activity and
prospects and recurrent maintenance income
that represents over half of the Group’s total
income.
Chris Moore
Non-executive Chairman
22 September 2005
