 Chief Executive’s review
Mark Dixon
Expanding our network
Our growth in 2006 has been exceptional. During the last financial year 
we opened 218 centres (inclusive of 91 centres in the UK) which added a 
further 37,522 workstations to our capacity. Our expansion programme will  
continue in 2007 with openings planned across all four regions.  
In addition we will continue to add complementary businesses, which meet 
our strict investment criteria. Several of these acquisitions have allowed us to 
move into new markets such as airport locations and corporate outsourcing 
and develop a wider customer base (Government and support agencies) as 
well as facilitating a broader service for our existing clients.  
innovative products and services
One of our core skills is our ability to anticipate the changing demands of our 
customers. We therefore focus our research on developing new products 
and services which meet the future needs of our customers.  
Some examples of recent developments include:
> Network Access – our membership programme, which provides  
 members with immediate, unlimited access to our global network of  
 business centres.  
> Managed Office Solutions – a fully outsourced office solution for larger  
 clients where we manage the day to day running of the office.  
> Regus Express – a retail/business centre which caters for the needs of  
 the mobile worker. Currently located at airport locations within the USA,  
 our intention is to implement this concept in other airports and travel hubs 
 in major cities across the world.  
investment in systems and technology
The growth of the business in 2006 has emphasised the need for Regus 
to have best in class systems to support its unique market position. These 
systems will not only be used for the benefit of our internal needs but as a 
platform to bring a broader range of services to our client.  
A flexible, secure and scaleable IT infrastructure is critical to our clients 
needs. Bandwidth on demand, guaranteed quality of service, increased 
security and higher service level performance are some of the benefits that 
we are now able to offer to our clients.  
The scale of our operations are being brought to bear in the sourcing and 
management of our IT services, bringing benefits to our customers while 
providing further differentiation from our competitors.  
As an example of this, we are partnering with some of the leading names  
in IT and telecoms to enable us to develop next generation Converged  
Network Solutions (CNS). The centralised nature of CNS provides Regus 
with economies of scale, lower cost of ownership, speed to market and 
a wider range of services that enable greater revenue opportunities and 
provides our customers with  better control of their cost bases.  
Additionally, Regus operates the world’s largest video-conferencing  
network in terms of geographical reach. The need for our customers to 
maximise their productivity and the increasing environmental concerns 
around business travel have driven continued growth of this valuable  
service. Consequently we intend to make further investments in this area  
to maximise its growing importance to our clients. 
Regus Report & Accounts 2006 04
t his has been another outstanding 12 months 
for the Group with record results for the 
third year in succession. We have delivered 
strong, disciplined growth and improved 
performance in all of our key business metrics 
including revenues, profit and earnings per 
share. Our performance in 2006 demonstrates 
the benefits of our longer term approach to 
the development of the business. We continue 
to improve financial performance through 
growing our network of business centres 
and developing new products and services 
to meet the evolving needs of our clients.  
Strategy and objectives 
Our strategy and objectives are simple – to use 
our skills and resources to generate profitable 
growth and cash.
We achieve these objectives through the following 
activities: Operational excellence
Our commitment to operational excellence is one of our key differentiators. 
Our business centre staff adopt globally defined standards of business 
processes and procedures. A rolling programme of quality audits are  
conducted at least annually in each centre and a scoring system helps 
ensure that centre teams focus on achieving the highest standard of  
operational excellence across our network. In this way we can ensure 
clients experience a high quality and consistent level of service irrespective 
of location.  
In addition to developing systems, our back office teams support our client 
facing staff with the efficient administration of the business. Our finance, 
human resource, billing and procurement teams operate on a regional basis 
allowing us to realise consistency of delivery and scale efficiencies.  
Developing our brand
Our brands and business concept are recognised and respected globally. A 
consistent high quality product delivery is available in all of the world’s most 
in demand cities providing business executives the Regus experience on a 
global basis. 
In 2006, we invested in TV and radio advertising in the UK and USA –  
specifically targeted at building awareness of the Regus brand. Our  
development of Regus Express and Network Access Card has allowed  
us to further promote our brand.  
In addition to our flagship Regus brand we also operate under our HQ 
brand primarily in the USA. We continue to monitor options and opportunities 
for developing our products under various trademarks as part of the Regus 
Group network.  
Developing our team members
The skills, enthusiasm and commitment of our people are key to Regus’ 
success. We recognise the need to recruit high quality individuals and to 
develop the potential of our staff in order to provide a positive customer 
experience to our clients.  
Our internal training programmes include regular operational updates,  
online training modules and classroom based training at our Global School  
of Excellence in Dallas, USA. During 2006 we trained 238 General and  
Operational Managers in Dallas, various locations across the UK and 
Mexico City. In addition 254 team members completed a three week  
induction course. Our staff have taken over 10,000 online training modules 
equivalent to nearly 3,000 hours of training.
t he future 
The Group maintained strong growth in 2006, driven by all three parts  
of our strategy. Our core business centre operations delivered a solid  
performance, mobile and home working continues to grow at rates in  
excess of 20% and our corporate outsourcing business is poised for  
significant growth in the medium to long term. Looking ahead, we will  
focus on driving margin improvement in our mature business and continue 
to invest in new markets and products to drive the long term growth of  
the business.  
As such I am confident that the Group will continue to deliver attractive 
rates of growth and cash generation in the year ahead.  
Mark Dixon
Chief Executive Officer
19 March 2007
05 Regus Report & Accounts 2006
f uture industry trends 
We believe we are well placed to take advantage 
of the favourable trends in our industry and these 
will contribute to the continued development of 
Group. These include:
> Fragmented market
 Regus has the only global serviced office network,  
 with no other players having more than 75 centres.  
 Our geographic footprint spans 790 centres across  
 64 countries and we will continue to seek opportunities 
 to grow our network and acquire complementary  
 businesses, enabling us to move into new markets  
 and develop a wider customer base.  
> Growth in home and mobile working
 The development of a mobile workforce has gathered 
 pace and employers and employees are increasingly  
 adopting flexible working practices. Our meeting room, 
 video-conferencing and virtual office products offer  
 solutions to these workers and through our Regus  
 Express outlets, we are bringing these solutions even  
 closer to our client base.  
> Continued adoption of outsourcing
 Companies large and small are realising the benefits  
 of outsourcing their office management in order to  
 concentrate on their core business. Regus helps  
 customers to minimise the complexity of property  
 management through providing clients with a single  
 property and service provider. Outsourcing can help  
 our customers reduce their cost base and provide  
 them with flexibility to respond to their changing  
 business needs.  
