  www.regus.com/investors 5
Business Review
 Grow mature revenues through improved sophistication 
and diversity
 Be in as many new and different locations as we can, 
expanding our footprint according to opportunity, risk 
and return
 Maximise the strengths of our growing network,  
brand position and awareness
 Strengthen and decentralise management
 Control overheads through operational excellence,  
scale and innovation
Board changes
On 1 September 2011 Dominique Yates joined the Board  
as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. He replaced Stephen Gleadle who, 
in August 2011, announced that after six years with the 
business he was stepping down from his position. I would 
like to thank Stephen for the contribution he made to the 
establishment of our business as the clear leader in its ﬁeld.
The Board notes the publication of the Davies Review on 
Women on Boards. The Board aims to be reﬂective of a 
broad range of skills, backgrounds and experience. While  
we follow a policy of ensuring that we appoint the best 
people for the relevant roles, we recognise the beneﬁts  
of diversity, including gender, and will continue to take this 
into account when considering any new appointment.
Dividend
It remains the intention of the Board to pay dividends at a 
level which it believes is sustainable throughout the economic 
cycle and is in line with its progressive payment policy. 
Reﬂecting the Group’s improved trading performance, strong 
cash generation, healthy cash position and optimism about 
the Group’s long-term prospects, the Board is recommending 
a ﬁnal dividend for 2011 of 2.0p (2010: 1.75p). This will be 
paid on Friday 25 May, 2012 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on Thursday 26 April, 2012. This 
represents an increase in the full year dividend of 12% to  
2.9p (2010: 2.6p).
Douglas Sutherland
Chairman
20 March 2012
Chief Executive’s review
The business has delivered a robust  
set of numbers and I am pleased with  
our performance. 
At a time of great economic uncertainty and low growth,  
we have made excellent progress and grown both our 
Mature and New Centre businesses. 
In our mature business operating proﬁts rose by 66% to 
£107.7m, with free cash-ﬂow (after notional tax, ﬁnance 
costs and maintenance capital expenditure) improving by 
53% to £117.1m, on the back of revenues up 3.8% to 
£1,035.1m. We also had a very encouraging year of growth: 
customer numbers up 8.7%; new locations up 10.9%; and 
new countries on the network up by nine to 94. This is 
testimony to the strength of our business and attractiveness 
of our offer to companies of all sizes, in all sectors regardless 
of the economic cycle.
The year saw the Group make important progress across a 
number of key business areas, including, but not limited to, 
further strengthening and decentralisation of our senior 
management team; business development and product 
innovation; cost control; operational efﬁciencies; and people 
management and development. Delivery in these areas 
played a key role in our improved performance. The business 
also began to accelerate changes to its revenue mix, a 
process which began a number of years ago. As we continue 
to widen and deepen our network, develop new and 
innovative products and services and forge more strategic 
alliances, so this trend is expected to continue.
Whilst 2011 saw an extended period of macroeconomic 
uncertainty, particularly in the second half, we continued to 
extend our global reach and strengthen in-country networks 
on the back of the mega trend of ﬂexible, mobile work.  
Partly as a result of the strong interest from other large 
organisations looking to Regus to help them develop their 
third place work locations for their customers, but also from 
the experience gained from Businessworld and our million 
strong membership, we have established a Third Place 
business. Blue chip organisations we are currently working  6 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
with include Shell, SNCF and, since the year end, NS Trains 
(the Dutch railway operator). Interest has also come from 
areas as diverse as retailers and local government. Whilst still 
very early days, this fast growing opportunity, which has been 
thoroughly market tested, plays to our skills and unrivalled 
industry knowledge.
In a world of some one billion mobile workers and growing, 
the opportunity available to our business remains signiﬁcant. 
The advances in mobile technology, worker demand to 
satisfy ever more complex work-life balance needs and 
organisations of all sizes looking to reduce cost and increase 
corporate ﬂexibility mean that this target market will only 
increase. The larger our network, both globally and nationally 
within countries, and the more innovative our product offering 
so the more attractive and compelling we become. This is 
especially relevant as Regus is the only truly global company 
in this sector.
Our Mature Centres business
Our Mature Centres business is well established, with many 
locations in existence for more than 20 years. We have seen 
years of consistent performance and again in 2011 the same 
can be said; cash generation was strong and, despite the 
challenging macro economy, has shown robust year-on-year 
improvement. Our mature centres are well maintained, 
through a planned and rigorous series of maintenance capital 
expenditure improvements. This means we always look our 
best and provide customers with excellent facilities and 
services. There is also a degree of network modiﬁcation as 
demand may change over time. This natural process ensures 
that our mature estate is always in an optimal condition, in 
optimal locations – city centre, suburban, transport 
interchanges amongst others. The absolute aim is to ensure 
that the business achieves its targeted returns regardless of 
the state of the global economy. We then endeavour to 
enhance these through a comprehensive programme of 
product and business development. 
The four key facets of our Mature Centres business are 
decreasing cyclicality, maximising yield and diversifying 
revenue, reducing cost and network optimisation:
 Decreasing cyclicality 
We are constantly increasing the number of users across 
all sizes of companies in all sectors. This is driven by the 
general trend toward mobile work, especially as more 
companies look to outsource workplace provision and 
become more ﬂexible but also by our offering a wider 
range of products and services. Over time we will steadily 
increase the revenue that we generate from our million 
plus members especially as we drive more global use, in 
part through increased use by large global corporates, but 
also into better serving those workers whose permanent 
base is the home. 
 Maximising yield and diversifying revenue 
Our mature centres are constantly refreshed and 
reconﬁgured, changing to meet demand, be that in the 
short, medium or long term. This may lead to a short-term 
Chief Executive’s review continued
“The great benefit of being with Regus is it’s so easy to 
expand. They increased the size of our workspace by 
giving us another room and taking down a wall – doing 
everything over a weekend. Every day they evolve their 
service as they learn more about how we do things 
differently in Google.”
Dr Paul Barreto, Country Manager, Google Portugal
Google uses Regus worldwide for convenience. It provides everything 
needed to set up a business from scratch, with centres that are the  
same quality anywhere in the world.
“We founded the new Heinz office in Regus because the 
services, from reception to facilities management, allow 
us to concentrate on the business and on growth. We 
also like the atmosphere in the town centre offices and 
the friendly Regus staff, who help us with small-scale 
administrative services.”
Matthias Wilberg, Commercial Director of Heinz in Switzerland
Regus offered Heinz an established infrastructure that included facilities 
management and was by far the best quality solution in the right location.
“Regus is very flexible to our needs – as well as the 
attraction of being able to grow or get smaller; it provides 
us with a low-cost and fast set-up. In Spain, I toured 
three centres and moved into one that afternoon.”
Dave McCarthy, Chief Commercial Ofﬁcer – Europe, Molson Coors
In six months, the Molson Coors European team has grown to 16 people 
and they continue to hire and expand the business, with staff based in a 
Regus centre in Kiev recently coming on board as well.
Why companies use Regus
“The Regus solution allows us to enter new markets 
quickly without taking on the costs and risk of 
establishing our own infrastructure. It also makes  
our real estate operation more efficient, since we  
only have to deal with one company to get set up...”
Fred Franz, Senior Director of Worldwide Real Estate  
and Facilities Polycom, Inc
Polycom currently relies on Regus for ﬂexible full-time ofﬁces in ﬁve 
countries: Mexico, Peru, Spain, Canada, and the United States.
6 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011  www.regus.com/investors 7
Business Review
increase in mature maintenance capital expenditure  
(in 2011 we installed or refreshed some 500 lounges at a 
cost of approximately £4 million) but contributes to the 
generation of improved returns. Developing and diversifying 
new sources of revenue is also a key priority within the 
mature business; for example in the UK we provide a 
location package to Avis at more than 37 Regus locations. 
This enables them to cost effectively increase their reach 
with more drop-off and pick-up points. In return, we are 
able to offer our customers preferential rates and an Avis 
service on their doorstep. 
 Reducing cost 
Just as we can reconﬁgure the physical layout so we can 
actively manage our leases. Paying the fair market rate  
for our leases is critical for the success of the business  
and over the year we continued to make great strides in 
increasing the ﬂexibility of our lease portfolio and improving 
terms. Our aim is, where practicable, to have all leases 
either ﬂexible (but with built in breaks or structural ﬂexibility) 
or variable (where the rent is linked to the proﬁtability of the 
centre). These combined equate to 80% of our mature 
group estate. Consequently, the business is able to ensure 
that over the economic cycle our rents track current market 
rates. The business also remains mindful of the need to 
control costs in the wider sense and that the current 
economic environment presents good opportunities  
to identify savings. 
 Network optimisation 
Our mature network locations are broadly ﬁxed but we 
maintain the ﬂexibility to adapt where required. On rare 
occasions, centres become uneconomical: the rent 
becomes too high; the location is no longer as attractive 
as it once was; or, the building becomes tired and requires 
signiﬁcant investment. Our response to these and other 
factors is usually one of the following:
 – Consolidate the centre into another one nearby;
 –  Stay in the location and refurbish the centre working 
jointly with the building owner;
 – Move to a better location in the immediate vicinity; or,
 –  Re-negotiate – either lower the rent or reduce the size  
of the centre.
The focus for our mature estate is, therefore, constant and 
active management to deliver continued high occupancy 
and usage. This will achieve stronger pricing which, coupled 
with lower relative overheads and input costs, will lead to 
margin improvement. 
“We’ve been working with Regus for more than  
10 years...Flexibility is at the heart of Regus, which 
means we can enter a new country or region without 
significant cost and risk to our business.”
Craig Youst, Senior Director, Global Facilities & Real Estate, Red Hat
Regus provides Red Hat with a stepping stone approach into new markets 
and territories. At any one time, Regus workspace represents nearly 10% 
of Red Hat’s real estate portfolio and is sometimes higher when needed.
“Any company that is looking for ways to be highly 
productive has to look at their real estate costs. Real 
estate has been so rigid for the last century that creating 
a flexible model takes on a new kind of creative thought. 
Before Regus we just rented out offices and had to pay 
for them then they sat empty.”
John Challenger, CEO of Challenger, Gray & Christmas
For nearly 20 years, Challenger has partnered with Regus to create a real 
estate programme that is completely aligned with its business needs and 
objectives – one that eliminates any excess leases from the balance sheet.
“Every time we open a local operation we start with 
Regus because it’s easy. Instead of the complexities of 
starting a business in a new country, such as managing 
the facilities, you just start working.”
Pankaj Parshotam, Marketing Manager, Consumer, TomTom Portugal
With everything in TomTom centralised in Amsterdam, Regus offers the ability 
for their small team to act like any start-up and get down to business straight 
away. TomTom also uses Regus space in Prague, Istanbul and Zurich.
“With a more agile model, we are no longer on the real 
estate roller coaster...We can now acquire just what we 
need, when we need it for as long as we need it without 
risk or excessive costs.”
Coleen Hurley, Director of Corporate Real Estate, Juniper Networks
For more than 10 years, the collaborative partnership between Juniper 
Networks and Regus has resulted in a strategic and ﬂuid workplace model 
accommodating the changing needs of Juniper’s global workforce and 
diverse customer base.
 www.regus.com/investors 7 8 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chief Executive’s review continued
Continued improvements to the  
Mature Centres business model
We strive to improve the margins in our Mature Centres 
business through a continued focus on key strategic 
initiatives. Outlined below are some which played a  
key role in our strong 2011 performance:
Strengthened and decentralised management
I wrote last year that strengthening in-country management 
was of critical importance to the Group. The considerable 
progress that we have made during the year has come about 
as a direct result of the continual improvements we are 
making to our management team, especially at a country 
level. As our organisation continues to grow, day-to-day 
responsibility is being moved from our regional headquarters 
to the ﬁeld; pushing decision making down into the countries 
and therefore nearer to the customer improves the speed 
with which we can respond to our customers and the quality 
and accuracy of outcomes. Whilst this has increased our 
overheads in the short term, our business has to have 
strong, experienced local leaders to manage growth and 
ensure the appropriate level of returns are generated, and  
we are already seeing the return on this investment coming 
through as we achieve the desired de-layering.
Innovation remains a core competitive differentiator
Our ability to attract new customers and increase spend from 
existing ones is highly dependent upon the strength of our 
new product and service offers, an approach we call “Only at 
Regus”. Key highlights from this year include the launch of 
businessLink, a networking platform for Regus customers 
which aims to replicate in an online environment some of the 
physical beneﬁts of being in a Regus location, such as 
serendipitous meetings in communal areas that lead to 
business opportunities. One of the main ways it is currently 
being used by our customers is to ﬁnd new business and 
suppliers. MyRegus, our customer group purchasing portal, 
also underwent a major refresh, one element of which now 
allows customers to self-serve and transact with us 100% 
online. As such, online bookings are at an all-time high and 
we expect this to continue to increase in 2012. 
Strong operational progress
Devolving responsibility and decision making to the operations 
and especially in-centre teams, moved apace over the year. 
Our approach to operations is also focussed on reducing 
centre workload through a process of back ofﬁce 
consolidation and workﬂow simpliﬁcation. By the end of the 
year we had automated online more than 90% of in-centre 
processes (up from 70% at the end of 2010). In doing so we 
freed up signiﬁcant amounts of front-line team members’ time 
to spend on customer facing and revenue generating activities. 
A strong and dedicated global team
Our people are the most important part of our business.  
We are making signiﬁcant improvements to the way that we 
develop and retain our people. In any growing organisation 
there is much opportunity and that remains one of the major 
attractions to working for our business.
As I have demonstrated above, we have gone to great 
lengths to ﬁnd and empower management within key Group 
functions and at a country/local level. But to support our 
accelerated growth programme we need great people at all 
levels of the business. As a management team we are 
focussed on ensuring we are able to attract the best new 
talent but also retain key team members in the business. 
Over the year we have invested in our human resources team 
and created dedicated in-market resource. Training and team 
member career development remain central to our approach 
to retention. The business continues to invest heavily in 
training, especially of lower management and centre team 
members. We are also increasing the ease with which team 
members can move to new countries to help our growth. As 
such, we are conﬁdent that with the signiﬁcant opportunities 
arising from growth, staff turnover will continue to reduce.
Our New Centres business – capacity expansion
The larger our network, both globally and nationally within 
countries, so the more attractive and compelling we become. 
As has been previously stated, the business is aiming for a 
network in the region of 2,000 locations by 2014. We opened 
139 locations in 2011 and plan to open a further 200 by the 
end of 2012. We expect these to achieve similar levels of 
revenue and earnings as the mature estate in due course, 
and we tightly manage them to ensure that this happens.  
It is important to state that whilst we remain optimistic and 
conﬁdent in our growth strategy, the management team 
remain mindful of the continued global economic uncertainty 
in the near term. We carefully monitor key metrics and are 
able to temporarily slow down the growth if we determine 
that conditions have become too uncertain or challenging.
Looking at our 2010 and 2011 openings we ﬁnd that:
 Our 2010 centres have performed well. Totalling  
116 locations, these generated £100.0m of revenue  
and made a centre contribution of £15.0m and an 
EBITDA of £3.8m.
 Our 2011 centres, some of which are only a few months 
old and totalling 139 locations, generated revenues of 
£20.2m and, as expected, made a negative centre 
contribution of £13.4m. 
In 2012 we plan to open somewhere in the region of 200 
new locations and enter 6-8 new countries. We have already 
opened in Madagascar and others will include Iceland, Nepal 
and Fiji. It is crucial for us to continue to enter new countries. 
This is primarily in response to demand from global (but also 
medium and small) companies as they look to us and our 
expertise to help them expand and enter new markets.  
The classic example is how we helped Google expand in  
New Centres business growth
670
789
916
978
983
1,084
1,203
1,400
1,650
2,000
09 08 07 06 05 10 11 12 13 14 Third place
First place
( (Offi Office) ce)
Second place
( (Hom Home) e)
Mt Motorway 
service stations
Lib Librari ies Ht Hot l els
Ai Airport ts Cf Cafes
B Busi iness
centres
Ot Out id side
spaces
Ri Rail l 
stations
S Sup li pliers’ ’
locations
Business Review
the early part of the last decade and continue to support 
them in some 32 countries. 
To support our accelerated growth programme and leverage 
the beneﬁts and efﬁciencies of scale, we have recently 
strengthened the development team. It is vital that we 
automate and simplify as much of this expansion activity  
as possible and also ensure that we achieve the optimal 
return from our investment capital. Additionally, the current 
state of the global economy could well present us with a 
good opportunity to acquire a signiﬁcant number of excellent 
locations at competitive rates. 
There is a clear programme of development to ensure that 
growth is sustainable, achievable and in the places where 
there will be strong demand. Speciﬁcally:
 National networks – customers are today more likely to 
need access to complete national networks and not just 
individual centres. We believe there is signiﬁcant latent 
demand as we open up more of these. 
 Neighbourhood locations – we are increasingly opening 
in suburban and residential areas.
 Infrastructure locations – major motorway junctions, 
railway stations and other transport interchanges.  
Where people travel, they will increasingly work and  
will look to Regus for support.
 www.regus.com/investors 9
 Missing city locations – we refer to this as ﬁlling in the 
“gaps on the map”.
 Growth accelerating – in response to demand from end 
users but also as we react to requests from building 
owners and developers.
Third Place 
In pursuing additional growth opportunities, the business  
has been exploring a number of new avenues especially in 
expanding our network into more third places. Indeed, a 
commercial offer is emerging which has the potential to be  
a major third leg of our business. 
Third place is deﬁned as not the ofﬁce (ﬁrst place) nor the 
home (second place) – see diagram below. So a third place 
could be the library or a cafe or railway station, it might be 
the park bench or a supplier’s premises. Work in the third 
place is increasingly the norm as technological advances 
mean that anyone can work anywhere. Our Third Place 
business is creating better quality work locations where 
people are increasingly likely to work when on the move or 
when away from the home or ofﬁce, railway stations and 
motorway service stations for example, but the Group is 
exploring a wide variety of other third place locations.
This new Third Place business is being built on the 
experience we have gained from Businessworld where we 
have created a base of more than a million members in a little 
Third place work locations 10 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chief Executive’s review continued
over three years. Whilst third place remains at an early 
stage, progress has been rapid – in the second half of 2011 
the Group signed a landmark deal with SNCF , the French 
national railway operator, and since the year end a similar 
deal with NS Trains, the Dutch national railway operator,  
has been agreed. Both will result in multiple Regus locations 
within these organisations’ networks, serving a signiﬁcant 
number of their mobile worker customers. The Group is 
also in discussions with a number of other similar transport 
infrastructure organisations from around the world, which 
includes a pilot with Shell at their motorway service stations 
in France and facilities set up and trading within airports 
(currently Schiphol (Netherlands) and Zaventem (Belgium)). 
Additionally we are soon to open a community based 
business centre which, in addition to the standard Regus 
offering, will house the local ofﬁce of economic 
development and be put to a variety of different  
uses at evenings and weekends.
The potential of third place is signiﬁcant and fast growing.  
It plays to our skill sets – our systems and process, 
business development expertise and long history of 
partnerships, our intuitive understanding of work and the 
needs of ﬂexible workers. We expect to sign many more  
of these agreements in 2012 with increasingly diverse 
partners in many more locations.
Use of third spaces is different to traditional Regus centres 
and is more akin to how people interact with our business 
lounges. They are in effect drop-in locations for short-term, 
but frequent use. Convenience is key and that is why the 
experience has to be seamless, especially if using several 
locations over a week or even a day. They are ideally  
suited to the needs of the mobile worker: highly accessible; 
welcoming and comfortable; local and easy to use; 
professional with high quality wi-ﬁ and refreshments; good 
value with other services available on a pay-as-you-need 
basis; and, where you are surrounded by other like-minded 
individuals. Membership is key – we have recently passed 
the million mark and expect strong and accelerating growth 
over the coming years; from large corporates such as Yell 
which take membership cards numbered in their thousands 
to entrepreneurs who will take just one, possibly purchased  
via a high street outlet.
With regards to the investment required and expected 
returns, we anticipate both to be comparable with our 
existing model. Our approach is global so we expect  
to beneﬁt early from scale. The concept has been 
comprehensively demand tested, and being heavily 
underpinned by technology, is expected to develop  
rapidly. We intend to provide more information on key 
developments in this market in the future. 
Operational Review 
The momentum of growth achieved in Q4 2010 continued 
throughout 2011. Over the year the Group opened 139 new 
centres (2010: 125) with the total number as of 31 December 
2011 standing at 1,203 (2010: 1,084). Over the period 
customer numbers increased by 8.7% to 983,360 and have 
since the year end passed the million mark. Taken together, 
this growth resulted in an increase in total workstation 
capacity of 8.2% to 204,043.
To properly review our business, I will concentrate on our 
mature business performance development, which 
represents like-for-like business:
Americas 
Our Americas business posted a strong performance, 
especially in the USA and I offer my congratulations to them 
on a job well done. Mature revenues were up 2.3% on 2010 
to £431.8 million with average mature occupancy of 88.6% 
during the period (2010: 82.8%). Mature gross margins 
improved strongly to 29.3% (2010: 24.0%). During the year, 
we added 62 centres, including our ﬁrst in Omaha, 
Nebraska, which contributed to the increase in the average 
number of workstations from 74,265 in 2010 to 80,064  
in 2011. The robust nature of our Mature Centres business  
is underpinned by the solidity of this business. Latin America 
has a number of exciting opportunities for us, not least  
in Mexico and Brazil where we see tremendous growth 
potential. We continue to experience healthy levels  
of demand across all geographies in the region and  
in H2 opened our ﬁrst location in Uruguay.
On a regional basis, mature revenues and contribution can be analysed as follows:
 Revenue Gross proﬁt Mature gross margin (%)
£ million 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
Americas 431.8 422.3 126.6 100.5 29.3 23.8
EMEA 274.3 266.3 73.5 66.1 26.8 24.8
Asia Paciﬁc 139.7 132.5 41.7 40.2 29.8 30.3
UK 187.6 174.8 29.7 14.5 15.8 8.3
Other 1.7 1.7 3.4 1.4 – –
Total 1,035.1 997.6 274.9 222.7 26.6 22.3
* The mature business is deﬁned as the performance from centres owned and operated at 31 December 2009. Business Review
EMEA
Contrary to what might have been expected, our EMEA 
business had a good year, especially in H2. The region 
delivered mature revenues of £274.3m, up 3.0% on 2010 
and achieved an average mature occupancy of 85.3% (2010: 
79.6%). Mature gross margins improved over the period to 
26.7% (2010: 24.9%). During the year, we added 45 centres 
which contributed to the increase in the average number  
of workstations from 36,120 in 2010 to 38,473 in 2011.  
Eight countries were added to the network including Croatia, 
Uganda and Madagascar. Although the macro economy 
across much of this region is challenging, we continue to 
seek and ﬁnd good growth opportunities in many markets. 
Additionally, much of the initial interest and subsequent 
development and implementation of our Third Place activity 
has originated here.
Asia Pacific
Our Asia Paciﬁc business performed well. This dynamic 
region continues to present tremendous opportunities for 
growth, especially in India and China, but also in every 
market where we are present. Currently operating 108 
mature centres across 16 countries, the region delivered 
mature revenues of £139.7m, up 5.4% on 2010 and 
achieved an average mature occupancy of 85.7% (2010: 
81.4%). Mature gross margins stayed broadly ﬂat at 30.0% 
(2010: 30.6%). During the year we added 29 centres which 
contributed to the increase in the average number of 
workstations from 23,437 in 2010 to 27,757 in 2011.
UK
The UK remains a tough market but nevertheless, the 
business, which numbers 135 mature centres, continued to 
improve and delivered mature revenues of £187.6m, up 
7.3% on 2010. This was on the back of mature gross 
margins almost doubling to 15.8% (2010: 8.3%), a clear 
demonstration of the progress made in turning this business 
around during the year. We remain vigilant as the average 
mature occupancy has not moved much beyond 80%  
(2011: 80.5% vs 2010: 80.8%). Property and associated 
on-costs remain high – consequently only three centres were 
added. Over the period the average number of workstations 
increased from 34,851 in 2010 to 38,346 in 2011. We have 
also focussed on refreshing the management team to give  
the business renewed vigour and focus.
Outlook 
Regus has delivered a strong set of results. After executing 
various strategic initiatives over the last two years, Regus is 
now a more resilient business and our strong growth reﬂects 
this. The current trend toward ﬂexible working means that we 
anticipate continued strong momentum in 2012 and current 
trading reﬂects this. As such, despite an uncertain economic 
backdrop we are cautiously optimistic. 
 Our Mature Centres have signiﬁcant and fundamental 
strengths; strong cash generation, solid like-for-like 
revenue growth and improving margins, performances 
which we are focussed on maintaining.
 Our New Centres are performing well, and the locations 
we have opened are expected to reach our target  
return on investment hurdle in the expected timeframe. 
We anticipate margins in these locations will continue  
to improve.
 Whilst the overall Group performance will always be 
impacted by the pace of openings within our New 
Centres business, the Board is comfortable with the 
progress being made and expects that the strong 
momentum in our Mature Centres business will  
continue into 2012.
 Regus’ unique, market leading position provides us with 
excellent potential to grow further through our Third Place 
business due to the burgeoning ﬂexible work market and 
we look forward to this delivering additional returns over 
the medium to long term. 
Whilst we foresee the general business environment  
remaining challenging at a macro level in the near term, we 
remain optimistic about the long-term growth prospects  
and strategy of the business. As such, we are ready and 
capable to invest further to accelerate growth but scale  
back if macro-economic conditions deteriorate.
Fundamentally, the achievement of our goals rests on our 
energetic, passionate and dedicated team members 
providing our rapidly growing number of customers and 
partners with absolutely the best possible service. It is a 
pleasure to lead such a team and it is only right that I end  
by thanking them for their efforts in 2011 and look forward  
to sharing further success with them in 2012.
Mark Dixon
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
20 March 2012
 www.regus.com/investors 11 12 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Driving growth
Building our  
Third Place Business
In pursuing additional growth opportunities, the business  
has been exploring a number of new avenues, especially  
in expanding its network into more third places. 
Third place is deﬁned as not the ofﬁce (ﬁrst place) nor  
the home (second place). So a third place could be the 
library or a cafe, or railway station, it might be the park  
bench or a supplier’s premises. It could also be a Regus 
business centre. Work in the third place is increasingly  
the norm as technological advances mean that anyone  
can work anywhere. As the illustration demonstrates  
our Third Place business is creating better quality work  
locations where people are increasingly likely to work  
when on the move or when away from the home or  
ofﬁce; railway stations and motorway service stations  
for example, but the Group is also exploring a wide  
variety of other third place locations. 
MR A SAMPLE
100 123456 7890 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 100 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 1 1234 34 34 34 34 34 34 34 34 3456 56 56 56 56 56 56 56 56 56 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 789 89 89 89 89 89 89 89 89 890 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
businessworld
gold
R Ret tail il
Our products and services 
hav haveb e been een av avail ailabl ableo e ont n the he 
hi high h st tre t et f for more th than a 
yea y r, , enabli bling g a conv i enient 
access point.
Pa Part rtne ners rshi hips ps
Reg Regus us has has bu built ilt a a wid widev e vari ariety ety
of partnerships with many of 
the world’s larges g t brands, , 
i incld ludi ing 60 60% % ofl f l d eadi ing 
airway ays, s, hotel gro goups ups, ,
business organisations 
and and ot other hersw s whic hiche h exis xistt t to o 
sup suppor porta t and nd ser serve ve mob mobile ile,
ﬂex ﬂexibl iblew e work orkers ers.
R Rail ilway t st t ati ions
Rec Recent ent de deals als wi with th SNC SNCFa F and nd 
NS NS Tra Trains ins (D (Dutc utchr h rail ailway ways) s) 
will result in Regus opening 
bus busine iness ss lou lounge ngesw s with ithin in 
i rail lway stt tati ions, ft often it with h 
pla platfo tform rm acc access ess.  www.regus.com/investors 13
Business Review
Mobile workers
Wit Witha h ana n arra rrayo y ofa f appl pplica icatio tions ns, 
mob mobile ile se servi rvices ces,s , such uch as as ca call ll 
handling, and self-serve tools 
our net two k rk can b be ea il sily y
d and qu q ik ickl ly y access d ed b by y
those for whom, work is 
something that happens 
on the move.
Ai Airport ts
An increasing number of airports 
are are no nows w serv erved ed by by Reg Regus us and and
th the b bu i siness i is acti tiv l ely ex l plo i ring 
way ys in which it can deepen p its
presence and service to support 
the vast majority of business
travellersthat no longerﬂy travellers that no longer ﬂy 
bus busine iness ss cla class ss. business class. 
B Bu i siness cent tres
The core of the Regus network is
its its bu busin siness ess ce centr ntres es whi which ch off offer er 
our f full ll range f of prod duct ts d and 
ser i vices. O Ou l r loca i tions range g
from premium addresses in 
central business districts, to key 
transport infrastructure nodes transport infrastructure nodes 
and and su subur burban ban co commu mmutin tingh g hubs ubs. and suburban commuting hubs.
M Mot torway 
service stations
Reg Regus us has has re recen cently tly 
ope opened ned a a pil pilot ot wit within hin a a She Shell ll 
motorway service station.
Ho Home me w wor orke kers rs
With a wide array of 
non-residential products 
d and se i rvices i incre i asi l ngl g y y
available on a self-serve
basis, Regus is able to 
fully y sup ppor p t any y home
bas based ed wor worker ker w , wher hereve ever r 
the theya y are re in in the the wo world rld. 14 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Driving growth
Developing our  
Mature Centres
Administrative support
Available to anyone on a pay-as-you-
need basis from as little as 15 minutes 
from photocopying or collation through 
to booking travel or accommodation.
Day ofﬁces
Sometimes all that is required is a 
quite private space for a few hours 
or possibly a full day. All Regus 
centres have private ofﬁces, with  
all the services that go with that, 
available on an hourly basis. 
Virtual Ofﬁce
All the beneﬁts of an ofﬁce,  
without the ofﬁce – an impressive 
business address and phone 
number anywhere in the world,  
as well as a private ofﬁce for a few 
days each month if required.
Branch ofﬁces
The ideal way to expand into new 
markets. We provide our customers 
with space to work, business 
support, local knowledge and a 
customer base, all on their doorstep.
Thinkpods
A stylish new thinking and working  
space with room for a laptop and a 
comfortable, adjustable chair, 
Thinkpods are dedicated to 
productivity and unique to Regus. 
Designed to be used for any length  
of time from one hour to a whole day, 
providing privacy in the shared space 
of our business lounges.
Disaster recovery
A variety of ﬁxed and virtual spaces 
to help organisations of any size 
resume operations following a 
workplace disaster.
Coworking
Most Regus centres have open plan 
space which different businesses 
share. Popular with a wide variety  
of organisations these spaces are a 
low cost alternative for businesses 
which are starting to grow.
Training rooms
Regus are able to provide  
a suite of training room 
environments at all locations 
to suit a wide variety of 
learning styles. All are 
served by a dedicated 
support team.
Our business centres are the heart of our network and 
the place from where all our products and services can 
be accessed. The assumption is that they are mainly 
places of ﬁxed working but this couldn’t be further from 
the truth – with a wide variety of ﬁxed and ﬂexible work 
products and services they are thriving hubs of 
entrepreneurial and business activity, engines of  
their local and indeed national economies. Business Review
 www.regus.com/investors 15
Document and  
print management
Our fully self-service cloud  
printing solution. Customers  
can print from anywhere to 
anywhere on the network. This 
then facilitates other activities  
such as low cost couriering.
Serviced ofﬁces
Our workspaces are highly adaptable and fully equipped  
with all the furniture, IT and communications technology  
our customers need to move in today and start working. 
Collaboration spaces
Regus is able to provide a wide 
range of spaces for teams of all  
sizes to meet and collaborate.
Video  
communication
We have the world’s  
largest network of video 
communication suites, including 
state of the art Teleprescence 
studios, which enable face-to-
face meetings without the usual 
travel expense and downtime.
Business lounges
Our business lounges are the 
perfect place to work when  
on the move, convenient 
work-ready environments 
providing peace, support  
and dedicated resources. 
Meeting rooms
With more than 4,000 meeting 
rooms we provide the very  
best in ﬂexible meeting space 
bookable by the day, half day  
or even the hour.
