 6_www.regus.com
Directors’ Report Business Review
Chief Executive’s review
A focused business model
Our strategy remains one of measured and sustainable growth.
By keeping focused on our consistent, long term
strategy – that of measured, sustainable growth
– we have been able to demonstrate our ability to
deliver continued beneﬁts for all of our stakeholders.
Through the ongoing implementation of our
core strategy of controlled, disciplined growth
– via both organic expansion in existing and
new markets and acquisitions – the Group
has delivered substantial workstation growth
in all regions during 2007. Average workstations
grew 25,681 or 23.9% to 132,938 during 2007.
The total number of available workstations
at 31 December 2007 was 142,601. If
non-consolidated workstations arising from
franchise operations, joint ventures and
managed ofﬁces are also taken into account,
the total number of workstations under
management increases to 155,270.
We have seen the number of centres we operate
increase by 128, including franchises, joint
ventures and managed ofﬁces. New locations
include Kolkata in India, Winnipeg in Canada,
Lille in France, Turin in Italy and we opened our
ﬁrst centres in Bulgaria, Qatar, Jordan, Kenya
and New Zealand. The largest Regus centre, the
Regus Silver Centre in Shanghai with over 1,400
workstations, opened for business in January 2007.
Strategy and objectives
Throughout 2007, we have remained clear on
our strategic approach, which at its core seeks
to ensure continued proﬁtable growth and
cash generation driven by a scalable business
model with considerable potential for further
development. With a substantial existing
footprint of established, performing centres
forming a network across 70 countries, we
have been able to leverage these assets for
long term growth and value creation for
shareholders, and also to continue to grow
in line with our strategic short and longer
term goals.
Central to this strategy is driving continued
improvement in
• our brand and products
• our systems and technology
• our processes
Mark Dixon
1
2
3
Business model
A scalable business model with considerable potential
for further development.
Future prospects
We believe that we are in a good position to capitalise
on our flexible product offering which makes us an ideal
choice for many companies in times of uncertainty.
The unique nature of our business will ensure
that we continue to drive sustainable growth:
Strategy
Our consistent long term strategy is that of measured,
sustainable growth to maximise benefits for our stakeholders.
2007 has been another very successful year
for the Group, with excellent growth in revenues,
proﬁtability, earnings per share and cash
generation all resulting in a fourth successive
year of record results. I am particularly pleased
to have passed for the ﬁrst time the milestone
of achieving £100 million of earnings. Regus Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007_ 7
and more generally, in our knowledge of existing
and future markets. Our people will continue to
be the engineers of change in this respect.
Brand and product development
By continuing to develop and reﬁne our product
and service portfolio we recognise that our
customers’ needs are continually evolving,
in different ways, around our global network.
Our core business continues to be driven by
regionally targeted campaigns which focus
on local speciﬁcs but also leverage global
strategies. Examples of such targeted
campaigns which have driven our brand and
product recognition include 1.2 million mail
shots to homes in the UK and 870,000 targeted
e-mail communications to prospective ofﬁce
customers across the 41 countries in EMEA.
In addition, during 2007, we launched our
Business Lounge concept in both the UK
and US, and have continued to invest in our
Membership card initiative. We are conﬁdent
that as our scale increases, the ability for
Regus to offer continued, enhanced operational
beneﬁts to our customers will also increase.
I am delighted to see our card membership
levels doubling in 2007.
Systems and technology
We have also continued to invest in our systems
and technology.
The roll-out of our internally developed inventory,
reservation and billing system across our
worldwide network has proceeded well. By
31 December 2007, we had 495 of our centres
utilising this technology in their day to day
operations. This system will deliver tangible
improvements in our customers’ day to day
experiences with Regus.
The second half of 2007 saw a refresh of our
website – part of our objective of developing
further the Regus brand. This has already
started to show measurable improvements
in our customers’ website experience, notably
in site navigation, as well as driving an increase
in enquiry conversion levels globally.
Finally, Regus continues to operate the world’s
largest video-conferencing network from the
perspective of global reach. We have continued
to see an increase in demand and usage for
this product during 2007, reﬂecting what we
believe to be an increasing recognition by our
customers of environmental concerns coupled
with a desire for a cost-effective business driver.
1
Our priorities for 2008 A leading strategy for growth
Expanding our network
We will continue to grow our network in key cities
where we have minimal representation, expand into
new markets and, within the Asia Pacific market,
continue to consolidate and develop our position
as the largest provider of serviced offices.
Innovative products and services
The re-launched Membership card recognises the
mobility demands of our customers and we will
continue to extol the clear benefits that this initiative
provides to our thousands of customers worldwide.
Investments in systems and technology
The refresh of our website has now encompassed
33 countries, with another 26 in test and due for
implementation in early 2008. We anticipate the
implementation and use of our internally developed
inventory, reservation and billing system within our
entire network by the end of 2008.
Generating
proﬁtable
growth
Developing
our team
members
Expanding
our
network
Innovative
products
and
services
Investments
in systems
and
technology
Operational
excellence
Developing
our brand 8_www.regus.com
Directors’ Report Business Review
2
A globally diversiﬁed business Regus value proposition
Mobile and home working leader
• Virtual office, video-conferencing
and meeting rooms
• Business lounges, membership
cards and day offices
For the customer
• Cheaper opex
• Zero capex
• Flexible
• Immediate, no fuss
• Reliable, outsourced solution
• National, regional, global
For the landlord
• Allows small customers
• Market rent or better
• Incubator
• Amenity
• Regus brand
• Immediate and easy
Business centre leader
• 918 centres in 70 countries
• 142,601 workstations
Corporate outsourcing
• Training room
• Managed offices
Processes
During 2007, we have further developed our
business processes and procedures throughout
our network.
The rollout of our internally developed inventory,
reservation and billing system has been a
signiﬁcant enabler of this allowing us to drive
consistent structured processes across all our
regions of operation. We see beneﬁts in this
scalable model not only to our existing centres,
but also to all future new centre openings
and acquisitions.
We have implemented improvements to our
Human Resources (HR) systems in certain
of our regions, allowing us to capture more
effectively all HR data in one place, with
substantial process beneﬁts for employees
and for managing our growing workforce. An
example of this is the successful implementation
of HR.Net, a web-enabled system throughout
EMEA, which has allowed us to move away
from a large number of local limited functionality
manually managed HR applications.
Throughout the year, we have also continued to
ensure our growth plans are supported by strong
administration frameworks, encompassing local
ﬁnance, HR, procurement and operations teams
where required, whilst at the same time
employing subject matter experts in regional
centres or head ofﬁce. A central operations
function, based in the UK and established in
2007, has also allowed us to identify areas of
operational compliance improvement throughout
our network, with the result being stronger
controls and tangible revenue beneﬁts.
People
Our results in 2007 would not have been
possible had it not been for our 4,730 team
members throughout the world and I extend
my thanks to each of them for their commitment
and enthusiasm. Their continued customer-
focused ethos and approach have seen
improvements in operational execution and
levels of satisfaction throughout our network.
We will continue to seek to employ the best
candidates, and to encourage their growth and
development through vesting appropriate levels
of responsibility and challenge for each role.
We recognise our employees’ achievements in a
variety of ways, be it through internal recognition
or in ongoing career development within our
regional training centres. During 2007, Regus
invested a substantial amount in the training
and development of its people, with several
signiﬁcant programmes offered including: Regus Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007_ 9
• structured training for newly hired General
Managers (“GMs”) and Operational Managers
(“OMs”). Throughout our regions, over
485 GMs and OMs completed this three-week
induction course during the year.
• sales and operations training for GMs and
OMs (all regions);
• online learning programmes accessed and
delivered via the web;
• Management Development for Area Directors
(“ADs”) in the Americas (to be launched
globally in 2008); and
• General Human Resources and Supervisory
training led by the EMEA HR Team.
The outputs of these courses have been
signiﬁcant, with positive feedback from
participants coupled with tangible outputs
in increased sales levels shortly thereafter.
Regus has also invested in establishing
professional trainers in Asia Paciﬁc, EMEA and
the UK to complement the internal training team
in the Americas, and we anticipate continuing to
strengthen the Global Training teams’ resources
and global reach during 2008.
Outlook
While clearly the current economic climate
remains uncertain we believe we are in a
good position to continue growing proﬁtably.
Our global footprint means that we can capitalise
on opportunities wherever they exist and in
particular in the developing markets. Our
revenues in the “BRIC” economies and the
“N11” grew 45.7% and 28.6% respectively in
2007 and we expect these signiﬁcant growth
rates to continue.
As the business has grown, inherent risk
has been extensively diversiﬁed as we have
acquired a broader range of customers across
geographies, business segments and size
categories. Our cost base is also signiﬁcantly
more ﬂexible as we increase the number of
ﬂexible leases in our portfolio and we reduce
our exposure to longer leases.
The year has started well with enquiries showing
no sign of weakness. We believe that we are in
a good position to capitalise on our ﬂexible
product offering which makes us an ideal choice
for many companies in times of uncertainty.
Overall we look forward to generating further
proﬁtable growth in 2008.
Mark Dixon
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
3
Future prospects
United Kingdom
• Investing in our centres
and in targeted marketing
• Driving enquiry development
and conversion
• Attractive low risk
growth opportunities
Americas
• Maximising yield in our existing centres
• Growing our portfolio in key cities
where we have minimal representation
• Continued efficiency improvements
EMEA
• Further improving occupancy
and margin in our existing centres
• Expanding our network into low
risk, low capex emerging markets
Asia Paciﬁc
• Continue our aggressive growth
plan – adding second tier cities
• Improving the efficiency of our
current portfolio of centres
• Continued use of participation
leases to reduce risk
regus.com ﬁnd out more at:
