 4 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report that Regus has 
produced a strong set of results in line  
with the Board’s expectations. 
Group sales grew 11.8% to £1,162.6m (2010: £1040.4m), 
operating proﬁts more than doubled to £50.6m (2010: 
£23.9m) excluding exceptional items, and on the same basis 
earnings per share increased from 1.9p to 4.0p largely as a 
result of the increased EBIT in the year. It was also pleasing 
to witness our 2010 openings move into proﬁtability in the 
second half of the year. 
On a like-for-like basis our Mature business increased 
its operating proﬁt by 65.7% to £107.7m (2010: £65.0m);  
gross margins to 26.6% (2010: 22.3%); and sales increased 
by 3.8% to £1,035.1m (2010: £997m). Additionally, it remains 
highly cash generative, with a free cash ﬂow (after notional 
tax, ﬁnance costs and maintenance capital expenditure) of 
£117.1m (2010: £76.5m). 
Over the year we invested £86.4m in growth (2010: £79.0m), 
opening 139 new locations and entering nine new markets. 
This assured progress gives the Board the conﬁdence to 
increase the ﬁnal dividend by 14% to 2.0p making a total 
increase for the year of 12% to 2.9p (2010: 2.6p).
Our business
There are three parts to our business – Mature, New and 
Third Place. They are closely interlinked, contribute to each 
other’s success and can be accessed by every one of our 
million strong members. 
 Mature – our ﬁrst thousand locations 
A well established and consistently high performing 
business. Cash generation is strong and continues to 
demonstrate robust year-on-year improvement. It is 
actively managed to deliver high occupancy and usage 
and support stronger pricing which, when coupled with 
lower overheads, results in improved margins.
 New – the next thousand locations 
The larger our network, globally and nationally, the more 
compelling a proposition we become to our customers 
– from the very largest corporates to lone entrepreneurs. 
We remain committed to achieving a global network of 
2,000 locations by 2014 and by end of February 2012 
had already opened a further 19 locations since the year 
end. Our new centres are performing well and achieving 
their target return-on-investment hurdles. We remain 
conﬁdent in our growth strategy, however we are mindful 
of the continued global economic uncertainty and the 
management team carefully monitors key metrics, 
remaining ready to adapt our growth plans accordingly.
 Third Place – new avenues for growth 
The business has been exploring a number of new 
growth opportunities, especially related to expanding our 
network into third places. These are locations from which 
people are increasingly likely to work when on the move. 
Railway stations and motorway service stations are 
examples, and the Group is also exploring a wide variety 
of other potential third place locations. Whilst early in its 
development, this is an exciting opportunity and has 
signiﬁcant potential. We anticipate that the investment 
required and returns generated will be comparable with 
our existing businesses.
A strong management team focussed on delivery
Our management team is strong and many of our leaders 
have more than 20 years’ industry experience including 
managing through challenging macro-economic conditions. 
They have directed our business during the current economic 
challenges with vigour, increasing returns from our mature 
business whilst executing controlled, yet aggressive growth 
and exploring exciting new opportunities. During 2011 strong 
progress was made in key business areas, including the 
strengthening of our management team both centrally and  
at the country level; business development and product 
innovation; improving our revenue mix and diversiﬁcation; 
operational efﬁciencies; and people management.  
Delivery in these areas contributed signiﬁcantly to our 
improved performance. 
Strategy
Following the execution of a range of strategic initiatives, 
Regus’ strategy is clear: to serve and proﬁt from the move 
toward ﬂexible work by being the platform of choice from 
which business operates. 
To deliver this, we will:
 Continue to broaden our appeal through accelerated 
product and service innovation
