 6_www.regus.com
Directors’ Report Business Review
6_www.regus.com
These results, achieved under difﬁcult
circumstances, especially during the ﬁnal
quarter of the year, reﬂect the continued
successful application of our business model
of sustainable, measured growth on a global
basis. We continue to demonstrate our ongoing
ability to return shareholder value with an 80%
increase in our dividend alongside £19.9 million
of share repurchases made during 2008. I am
also pleased to end the year with a balance
sheet reﬂecting a record level of cash, after
repayment of our outstanding debt, which will
enable us to further invest for the future in our
people, products and technology.
Through the ongoing implementation of our
core strategy of controlled, disciplined growth –
via both organic expansion in existing and
new markets and acquisitions – the Group
has delivered substantial workstation growth
in all regions during 2008. Average workstations
grew 20,322 or 15.3% to 153,260 during 2008.
The total number of available workstations
at 31 December 2008 was 159,121. If non-
consolidated workstations are also taken
into account, the total number of workstations
under management increases to 171,277.
We have seen the number of centres we operate
increase by 60 net of closures. New locations
include Karachi in Pakistan, Sharjah in the
U.A.E., St Petersburg in Russia, Fukuoka in
Japan and we opened our ﬁrst centres in Malta,
Monaco and Taiwan.
Strategy and objectives
In 2008, we have continued to adhere ﬁrmly
to our strategy – to continue to grow proﬁt and
cash generation through measured, sustainable
capacity growth.
Whilst we are acutely aware of the potential
impact of the current downturn, and the
unpredictability of its severity and duration,
the core fundamentals of our strategy and
current business model remain unaffected.
We will continue to seek to take the business
forward through disciplined growth, focused
investment for the long term, and through
keeping as nimble as possible in respect
1
2
3
Business model
A scalable business model with considerable potential
for further development.
Future prospects
We believe that we are in a good position to capitalise
on our flexible product offering which makes us an ideal
choice for many companies in times of uncertainty.
The unique nature of our business will ensure
that we continue to drive sustainable growth:
Strategy
Our consistent long-term strategy is that of
measured, sustainable growth to maximise benefits
for our stakeholders.
Overview
Amidst a backdrop of deteriorating economic
conditions, I am delighted to announce a
ﬁfth successive year of record results, with
a 25% growth in revenues, a 20% growth
in proﬁtability and a doubling of our net cash
balance at 31 December 2008.
Chief Executive’s review
Focused on our priorities
Our strategy remains one of sustainable and measured development
Mark Dixon Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008_7
Chief Executive’s review
of cost control and operational ﬂexibility. With
a steady adherence to our fundamentals, we
believe we are as well positioned as we could
be to face the forthcoming challenges of 2009.
The delivery of our strategy will continue to
come about through focus on our priorities;
• Brand and product development
• Systems and technology
• People and processes
Brand and product development
Our brand and market presence is strong,
enabling us to respond to a wide variety of
customer needs through a centre footprint
which allows us to be local, regional or global.
In short, we have the adaptability and agility to
be many things to many customers. However,
we recognise the need to continue to respond
to our customers’ needs and leverage further
the core quality and ﬂexibility of our products
which differentiate us from our competitors.
The launch of our Businessworld programme
in early 2008 has been a signiﬁcant success,
with membership expanding rapidly throughout
the year and now encompassing 200,000 card
holders who have signed up for one of four
unique Businessworld membership packages.
With external market research predicting that the
number of mobile workers worldwide will reach
one billion by 2011, we feel that we are the only
company delivering the right product in the right
place at the right time to help them compete in
the current economic climate.
We remain focused on highlighting the signiﬁcant
cost savings our clients can secure through our
product offerings.
Systems and technology
The roll-out of our internally developed,
inventory, reservation and billing system across
our worldwide network has now been completed,
with all of our centres utilising this technology
in their day to day operations (2007: 495 centres).
We are already seeing tangible beneﬁts in terms
of control of our business (notably in discount
and exception management) and in driving new
sales opportunities.
Looking ahead, we anticipate this system
being a key enabler in our newly established
Regional Service Centres, and the system is
being onward developed to ensure full integration
into operational improvements being made in our
centres (i.e. integration to photocopiers, telephone
billing systems, franking, etc). Wherever possible,
we are also seeking to integrate third-party
vendors into this infrastructure.
1
A leading strategy for growth
Expanding
our network
Innovative
products
and services
Investments
in systems
and technology
Operational
excellence
Developing
our team
members
Generating
proﬁtable
growth
Developing
our brand
Our priorities for 2009
Operational efﬁciency
We will continue to take early action on our
cost structure to manage our cost base in line
with future trading expectations.
Innovative “recession busting” products
Our product solutions for our customers are
immediate, easily implemented and generally
require no capital expenditure – all critical
“recession busting” considerations which will
enable them to obtain signiﬁcantly more value for
money and ﬂexibility than a conventional lease.
Investments in systems and technology
Utilising our internally developed, inventory,
reservation and billing system now rolled
out across our entire worldwide network will
ensure we continue to capture and bill for all
revenue generating opportunities. Directors’ Report Business Review
8_www.regus.com
2
Business model
A globally diversiﬁed business
Mobile and home working leader
• Virtual office, video-conferencing
and meeting rooms
• Business lounges, membership
cards and day offices
Business centre leader
• 978 centres in 74 countries
• 159,121 workstations
Corporate outsourcing
• Training room
• Managed offices
We have also made improvements during
the year to our data capture and management
systems, which will form a stronger platform
from which to develop better, more timely
reporting. Some early-adopting centres are
already receiving daily activity and planning
reports to allow them to focus on daily
customer-focused priorities and enable quality
planning for the next one to two weeks ahead.
People and processes
The strong results in 2008 have been driven
largely by our 5,442 team members, and I would
like to take this opportunity to thank all of them
throughout the Group for their substantial efforts
in the year. Our results are a testament to their
hard work, diligence and commitment.
As we develop our business and invest for
the future, we recognise the importance of
enhancing skill sets through training and
development programmes. Ultimately, the
quality of our team members and their ability
to deliver high quality customer service remain
fundamental to the continued long-term delivery
of our business model.
We will continue to rely heavily on our people
and their enthusiasm, talent and focus to further
develop the success of our business, regardless
of external economic factors.
Change of residence and appointment
of three new non-executive directors
In successfully implementing our strategy of
diversiﬁcation, both geographically and in our
product offerings, we have developed a more
balanced global revenue platform.
The creation of a new corporate structure and
organisation for Regus, incorporated in Jersey
and resident in Luxembourg, has therefore
given us a chance to further internationalise our
business in keeping with our ongoing strategy.
Coupled with this, the appointment of three new
international non-executive directors further
enhances our global perspective.
Responding to market conditions
Whilst we have delivered a strong set of 2008
results, we anticipate that market conditions
will be challenging during 2009. However, we
have the potential to outperform our competition
by maximising revenue and cash growth whilst
keeping a tight control on costs, and maintaining
focus on our core strategy.
With respect to our cost structure, we will
continue to take early action to manage our
cost base in line with future trading expectations.
Our costs throughout 2008 have continued to
become less ﬁxed in nature as we increase the
number of ﬂexible leases in our portfolio and
Regus value proposition
For the customer
• Cheaper opex
• Zero capex
• Flexible
• Immediate, no fuss
• Reliable, outsourced solution
• National, regional, global
For the landlord
• Allows small customers
• Market rent or better
• Incubator
• Amenity
• Regus brand
• Immediate and easy Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008_9
reduce our exposure to longer, conventional
leases. In addition, throughout 2008 we have
continued to implement a number of cost saving
programmes throughout our organisation, which
we anticipate will continue to ensure we are able
to act with maximum speed and efﬁciency.
As part of this process, we have accelerated
plans to consolidate certain central and regional
administrative functions into a number of newly
established Regional Service Centres. We expect
that these will be fully operational in the next
ﬁnancial year, with a focus on reducing overall
costs and ensuring better integrated ﬁnance,
information technology and other support
functions across the Group.
Outlook
We are not at all complacent about the outlook.
In the last two months of 2008, the increasing
pressure that we were seeing on our revenues
translated into a softening in our occupancy
and price KPIs which has continued into 2009.
However, although many of the countries in
which we operate are experiencing increasingly
difﬁcult economic conditions, we believe that
we are taking the necessary actions and expect
to strengthen our current market leading
position. Our global footprint, strong balance
sheet and cash generation ensure that we are
well positioned to take advantage of appropriate
opportunities to increase shareholder value as
they arise.
We recognize that we will have to continue to
challenge ourselves to become more efﬁcient
and drive down costs, whilst at the same time
not losing sight of the need for continued long-
term investment in growing our business. With
a strong global brand driven by the stewardship
of our customer-focused teams, a broad and
ﬂexible product range, and a business model
we have continued to adhere ﬁrmly to and
deliver upon, I am conﬁdent of our position to
meet the challenging market conditions ahead.
Mark Dixon
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
3
Future prospects
United Kingdom
• Continued early adopter of new
sales and product concepts
• Heightened focus on efficiency and cost
• Migration of all centres onto centralised
billing and credit control
Americas
• Expansion into new markets in
Latin America
• Maximising yield in existing centres
• Exploiting new marketing partnerships
EMEA
• Consolidation of processes into
a regional service centre to improve
efficiency of collections, reporting
and compliance
• Identification of low risk opportunities
for expansion
Asia Paciﬁc
• New centralised customer
service centre to handle
customer administration
• Consolidate and develop our
position as the largest provider
of serviced offices in the region
regus.com ﬁnd out more at:
Chief Executive’s review
