 Executive Chairman’s Statement
Introduction
I am pleased to report good progress across the
Group as our acquisitions perform well and we
see organic growth. Whilst there was uncertainty
in the market in the last quarter of the financial
year this is generally resolved at local level,
where we trade directly with hospital trusts, 
and leaves us with enormous opportunity and an
increased sales pipeline. Our challenge has been
to grow the Group’s operational capacity to meet
this demand. 
After a period of consolidation, the Group has an
excellent platform to undertake and integrate
further acquisitions. Ascribe has now moved to
having each Group function under one manager
and one group-wide control system. The Ascribe
brand is now evolving and will be further 
developed. We have maximised our ability to
respond to defined markets, through our divisions,
using common group-wide services. 
Ascribe has invested heavily in the development
of its integrated suite of software. Some of the
implementations delayed at the end of our financial
year were the first customer sites going live on
our web based platform. This platform enables
us to install and maintain customers more 
efficiently and effectively as well as delivering
all our products as an integrated package. Since
the year end these customers have gone live on
the software. This gives me confidence that our
plans to maximise operational capacity are being
delivered as well as giving us follow on sales
opportunities as new and existing customers
seek to upgrade. 
The investment in enlarging the Group’s sales
and marketing team is showing the first signs of
success as Ascribe has won new sales in overseas
markets. Since the year end the Group has won
its first Accident and Emergency contract in
Australia. We now have many more cross selling
opportunities as we produce a suite of compatible
software solutions against a common sales and
marketing plan. Our customers are able to buy
all of their solutions from a single supplier and
use them to complement solutions they already
have acquired from Ascribe.
A Successful Year
Ascribe’s strategy of combining organic growth and
earnings enhancing acquisitions has continued to fuel
our growth this year. Turnover has increased by 55%
to £15.3m (2006: £9.9m). Operating profit before
goodwill amortisation and share based payments has
increased 55% to £3.5m (2006: £2.3m restated)
yielding a return on sales of 23% (2006: 23%).
Adjusted basic earnings per share for the year
increased by 29% to 2.38p from 1.85p restated 
in 2006.
This year’s record profitability has been fully converted
into cash – operating cash in 2007 was 121% of 
operating profit (2006: 111% restated). 
Strategy
The business can grow from strength to strength 
selling at local level. We can add acquisitions to the
Group with little distraction to gain market share and
operational capacity. We are maximising our efficiency
to allow us to operate at higher levels as we expect
demand to rise further in the coming years.  To ensure
Ascribe keeps and expands its market share we focus
on the patient as the end customer in all that we do. Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P7
Market
Ascribe trades in multiple markets globally and across
many healthcare sectors, although generally at local
level. This gives us resilience to current changes in the
English NHS as well as many cross selling opportunities.
We currently trade in the UK, Ireland, Australia, New
Zealand, Malaysia and Hong Kong.  
Lord Hunt, the minister responsible for Connecting for
Health stated in May this year that “we can and should
devolve more to the local level” Whilst this initially
created uncertainty around the funding model, we
believe that this gives us a great opportunity in the
markets we trade. This is now demonstrated in our
strong pipeline of sales.
The Group’s overseas markets have performed well
and new sales are now coming from areas where we
have invested our sales and marketing efforts.
The English market has been disappointed by promises
from the national initiatives that have not been delivered.
It is quite possible that Ascribe could deliver to the
English national agenda through various channels such
as the alternative supplier catalogue (Additional
Supply Capability and Capacity “ASCC”) or may be
directly to the Local Service Providers (“LSP’s”). After
continuing to win in competitive tenders against all
competition, including that coming from the National
Programme for IT (“NPfIT”), we know we are able to
deliver in a market which is now able to make local
decisions to procure.
Management and Staff
Ascribe’s Board has been strengthened by the welcome
arrival of a new Non-Executive Director, Ian Priestner,
formerly a member of the Executive Leadership Team
at United Utilities plc. 
Having spent the last twelve months consolidating and
growing the business organically I am proud of what
the team has achieved. The Group is now capable of
addressing the wider opportunity ahead of us, improving
patient care and delivering value to stakeholders. On
your behalf, I would like to thank the staff at Ascribe
for all their hard work during the year. 
Dividend
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 0.17p
per share (2006: 0.13p). Subject to shareholder
approval, the final dividend will be paid on 1 November
2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of
business on 12 October 2007.
Current Trading and Outlook
Ascribe continues to expand the capacity of the Group
by maximising our operational synergies, moving
products to our more efficient web based platform 
and undertaking further recruitment. This positions
Ascribe to quickly respond as customers prepare to
buy locally. 
The feedback we are getting from our customers
about the Group’s new products and integrated software
means we are confident about the expectations for
2007/8. Many of our customers have extended their
contracts with us this year giving us assurance about
our long term maintenance income which still exceeds
60% of our turnover. 
Stephen Critchlow
Executive Chairman
