 10 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chairman’s statement
The Group has had a good 
year. It significantly increased 
the size of its network while 
also growing revenues and 
profits. As a result, we 
continued to deliver attractive 
returns on investment. 
During 2014, Group revenues grew to 
£1,676.1m (2013: £1,533.5m), an increase 
of 15.8% at constant currency (9.3% at 
actual rates). Operating profit improved  
by 27% at constant currency to £104.3m 
(2013: £90.8m), up 15% at actual rates. 
This performance is all the more pleasing 
given the adverse impact of start-up costs 
associated with our higher investment in 
growth in recent years. 
We evaluate the underlying performance of 
the business by looking at the returns we 
are able to generate from the investments 
we have made. During 2014 I am pleased to 
report that locations opened on or before 
31 December 2011 (which for clarity are 
locations opened over the first 23 years of 
operation) achieved an annual post-tax 
cash return on investment of 20.9%
4
, well 
above our cost of capital. The specific 
calculation methodology for these returns 
is covered in detail in the CFO’s review  
on page 16-19.
Given these strong returns, the board was 
encouraged by the ability of the business 
to fund additional attractive investment 
opportunities during the year, well ahead 
of its original estimate of at least 300 new 
locations. Adding 452 locations in 2014 
further strengthens the foundations for 
enhanced long-term shareholder returns. 
Furthermore, we achieved this whilst 
maintaining a robust balance sheet and 
investing less of our own capital – indeed, 
we actually generated net cash of £23m  
in the second half of the year, a period in 
which we added 258 new locations. We 
have also taken the opportunity provided 
by good access to debt capital to increase 
and diversify our available facilities. 
Strategy
Our strategic objectives include growing the 
underlying value of our business through 
disciplined investment in quality workplaces 
that expand our national networks while 
providing attractive returns to shareholders. 
Returns to shareholders are further enhanced 
through our focus on efficient and scalable 
operations at both the centre and Group 
level. Our efforts to improve the 
communication of our performance against 
our strategic objectives are reflected in this 
Annual Report.
We continue to benefit from the trend of 
businesses looking to outsource non-core 
activities, of which real estate is one, and the 
shift from fixed to flexible working. These 
changes occur even through variations in the 
macroeconomic climate and, as such, they 
continue to present the Group with 
significant opportunities for growth.
Staying close to our customers and 
providing them with the very best service is 
paramount to our success. We continuously 
look for ways to improve the customer’s 
experience and this underlines the 
importance of our continued investment in 
innovation. Our ability to invest in R&D at a 
scale unmatched by our competitors helps 
define and reinforce our leadership position.  
We understand the benefits of engaging 
with the local economies in which we 
operate and have expanded the support 
for projects of our team members in their 
communities. In addition, while flexible 
working helps our customers reduce their 
carbon emissions, we are working to 
minimise the inevitable environmental 
impact resulting from our significant 
growth through ongoing energy saving 
and sustainability initiatives.
Board
Key roles of the Board include: assuring a 
sound strategy is in place and adapted to 
changing conditions; ensuring we have the 
management and resources to deliver that 
strategy; overseeing management’s progress 
in its execution; and ensuring the Company 
and attendant risks are well managed.
As the breadth and scope of the Group’s 
operations expand, we have undertaken a 
Douglas Sutherland
Chairman
4 Post-tax cash returns on net invested = EBITDA 
less amortisation of partner contribution, less 
tax, less maintenance capex / Gross capital 
expenditure less partner contribution.
number of initiatives to ensure that the 
strategy can be delivered successfully. Our 
ongoing efforts to focus on our strategic 
objectives and initiatives in both Board 
and management activities is paying off, 
evidenced in the numbers we are able to 
present today. We continue to review and 
monitor our remuneration policy to ensure 
that the execution of our strategy includes 
an alignment of interests and incentives 
between our shareholders and executives. 
In May 2014 we welcomed Nina Henderson 
to the Board. She has already made a 
strong contribution and recently assumed 
chairmanship of the Remuneration 
Committee. We have a strong and well 
balanced team with skills and experience 
that complement each other well.
People 
To achieve these results we rely on the 
commitment and skill of our talented and 
experienced people. It is because of their 
dedication, energy and total focus on the 
customer that the business is the success it 
is. To each and every one of them, thank you.
Dividend 
Over the last five years we have doubled 
our dividend payment per share. We remain 
committed to the payment of a sustainable 
and progressive dividend. It underlines our 
confidence in the long-term performance of 
the business, the strength of our balance 
sheet and the quality of our assets.
I am therefore pleased to announce that 
the Board is recommending an increase in 
the final dividend of 10% to 2.75p. Subject 
to the approval of shareholders at the 
2014 AGM, this will be paid on 29 May 
2015 to shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 1 May 2015.
Douglas Sutherland
Chairman
3 March 2015
