 Chief Operating Officer’s Review
Introduction
Ascribe’s business model is to supply Health IT
solutions directly to Healthcare Trusts at local
levels in the UK and overseas.
Integration and Consolidation
The Group has undertaken a comprehensive programme
of integration and consolidation of the businesses
acquired since flotation designed to ensure we are
able to take full advantage of our growing market
opportunity in the UK and overseas.  
Investment in our key operational activities has
included consolidation of our software development
team which has led to improved product management
and development planning. Core functionality is now
used across multiple market areas improving efficiency
and the ability to integrate our software. In parallel
with the improvement in the effectiveness of software
development and the wider commercial opportunities
in the UK and overseas health IT markets, the Board
has approved the capitalisation of part of its development
expenditure as permitted by UK GAAP. This capitalisation
results in an intangible asset that represents the
investment in new software solutions which will underpin
future sales over the medium term. 
The processes used by our project management and
implementation teams have also been improved with
teams now able to deliver multiple products. In addition
to this, our support operations have been consolidated
and a new customer relationship management system
has been introduced; together these will provide
improved robustness and efficiency of our customer
support. Our finance systems have been replaced to
provide improved management reporting.
Operating Divisions 
Ascribe has four market-based divisions: Pharmacy;
Electronic Patient Records; Mental Health and Community
Care; and Primary and Unscheduled Care. Over the
last twelve months these divisions have seen new
sales in three broad areas; existing customers looking
for additional licenses and increased functionality; new
customers looking for robust and available IT solutions
that can be easily integrated with their existing systems
and processes; and thirdly, there is a growing number
of healthcare providers looking to Ascribe to deliver
combinations of our products, across multiple 
departments, on an ongoing basis, to provide a 
single cohesive and integrated patient-centric solution
– which we can deliver; Gateshead NHS Health Trust
being a particular example of a customer who is 
purchasing multi-product five year contract extensions.
Many of our contracts yield recurring maintenance
income for a minimum period of between three and
five years, being the length of the initial contract, and
enhance further the visibility of the Group’s earnings.
Pharmacy
Ascribe's Pharmacy Division has continued to win new
health IT contracts during the year and continues to
install our new web pharmacy software solution in the
UK and overseas; this product upgrade not only
increases the scalability of our solution, it also supports
additional and complimentary pharmacy and reporting
systems, such as Ascribe’s electronic prescribing and
medicines management solutions.  
Primary and Unscheduled Care
Our Primary and Unscheduled Care Division has
installed our Accident and Emergency system, Symphony,
at a number of sites including Guys and St Thomas’,
and Hammersmith and Charing Cross in London and
at Dewsbury which becomes one of a group of three
hospitals operating from a single Symphony database.
Ascribe’s GP system, Exeter, has passed conformance
testing for Scottish Enhanced Functionality (SEF)
Tranche 3. Amongst other benefits this includes tighter
prescribing safety checks including warnings for similarly
named drugs. Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P9
Mental Health and Community Care (MH&CC)
This division continues to perform well within its existing
user base by selling increased licenses and new feature
enhancing modules. Major new contracts include a 
significant new agreement to supply a MH&CC solution
to Central and North West London NHS Foundation
Trust. Our customers for this division are represented
by small dedicated teams and departments through 
to major trusts, such as Bolton, Salford & Trafford
Mental Health. 
Electronic Patient Record (EPR)
Our EPR division has performed exceptionally well,
overcoming competition from National Programme
suppliers. Contract extensions have been sold to West
Middlesex University Hospital NHS Trust and to County
Durham and Darlington Foundation NHS Trust as part
of an extended and expanded contract. New and
extended contracts have also been sold to customers
including South Tees Hospitals NHS Trust, Northern
Lincolnshire and Goole Hospitals NHS Trust and Hull
and East Yorkshire Hospitals NHS Trust. The division
also expanded its NPfIT compliant ‘Choose and Book’
Services and successfully sold this functionality to
Gateshead Health NHS Trust, Mid Yorkshire Hospitals
NHS Trust and Benenden. This means that all of
Ascribe’s Patient Administration System customers will
have a compliant direct booking service for ‘Choose
and Book’.
Sales and Marketing 
Our overseas activities have performed ahead of
expectations with orders from new customers, orders
for new functionality from our current customers as
well as contracts to upgrade our pharmacy customers
to the new web based solution. I am pleased to report
that our international operations have contributed
14.4% of the Group’s turnover compared to 9.3% in
2006. Due to a variety of factors our UK turnover has
not grown as expected. Orders have been delayed in
the English NHS as localised procurement processes
are being re-established. We are still in active negotiations
on all these contracts and expect them to be delivered
in the year in which we are now trading. Some have
been achieved in the last few weeks.
Chris Dickson
Chief Operating Officer
