 02 Renewable Power & Light plc • Annual report 2006
RPL was established in 2006 as an independent power producer, generating ‘green’ 
or renewable power. In December 2006, the Company completed a successful listing 
of its shares on AIM, raising US$78m (£40m) to fund the acquisition of two power 
plants in the US, re-permitting them to run on biodiesel and the construction of 
biodiesel refining, handling and storage facilities in the northeastern US. 
Since the Company’s incorporation, we have put in place an experienced, 
international management team, completed a successful IPO and acquired  
two power plants. In Q1, 2007, we have re-commissioned Elmwood Park  
and successfully test burned biodiesel at Massena, and have progressed  
the construction of our biodiesel refining plant.
Results
Given that the Company acquired its two power plants on 14 December 2006,  
no trading revenue was generated from power plant operations in 2006.
Revenue for the period was US$124,000 as a result of payments received from the 
New York Independent System Operator (NYISO). These are capacity payments that 
the Company receives as a matter of course to ensure that, if required, RPL is in a 
position to produce and deliver power to the local grid. The operating loss was 
US$(1,601,000), primarily as a result of our administrative costs. This led to a loss 
before tax of US$(1,504,000).
The Company has a strong balance sheet, with total assets of US$82.4m.  
Net cash at the year-end was US$43.4m (cash and cash equivalents).
CHAi RMAN’s REVi EW
Michael G. Reynolds ChAIRMAN 03 Renewable Power & Light plc • Annual report 2006
Dividend
As outlined at the time of our IPO, the Board intends first to achieve capital growth 
and, in the short term, to reinvest future profits in the Company. As a result, RPL is 
unlikely to declare dividends in the foreseeable future. Due consideration will be 
given to paying dividends once the Board determines it is appropriate to do so.
Colleagues
It has been a very busy first year for RPL. We have recruited a strong team of 
dedicated professionals to deliver our business plan. I would like to thank all  
my colleagues for their commitment and hard work. 
Outlook
We have identified an opportunity to turn existing fossil fuel power generation 
assets into renewable energy generation facilities by running these plants on 
biodiesel. We are pleased to have validated this business model following our 
successful biodiesel test burn at Massena. We believe this is a highly repeatable 
business model and as such are continuing to identify and review opportunities to 
acquire further power plants and source additional supplies of biodiesel feedstock. 
Michael G. Reynolds • Chairman
26 April 2007
The Company completed a successful listing of  
its shares on AIM, raising £40m to fund, principally, 
the acquisition of two power plants in the US, 
modify them to run on biodiesel and construct  
a biodiesel facility in the northeastern US.
