 04 Renewable Power & Light plc • Annual report 2006
RPL was created to take advantage of a number of ongoing changes affecting 
power markets. Growth in demand for renewable energy, an increasing propensity 
for national and state governments to cap carbon emissions and rising gas and oil 
prices, have led to considerable restructuring of the electricity industry. A shift away 
from larger, centralised power generation facilities towards smaller, distributed 
power generation facilities that can be more responsive to local market conditions  
is also occurring. The lower capital costs of these smaller facilities create an 
opportunity for smaller companies to be competitive in power markets.
Against this changing industry background, RPL’s strategy is to acquire relatively low-
cost conventional power generation assets and run them on renewable fuels. The 
two power plants that RPL currently owns will be run on biodiesel and as a result, 
we expect to be able to aggregate available incentives, including Renewable Energy 
Certificates (RECs) and Blender Tax Credits (a US$1 per gallon federal ‘blender credit’ 
for the production of biodiesel). 
While incentives such as the biodiesel Blender Tax Credit remain in place, the 
business model demonstrates a high level of profit and free cash flows. Significantly 
increasing the production of biofuels in order to reduce American oil imports is  
a core element of US energy policy. We continue to believe that there is strong 
evidence to suggest that incentives such as the biodiesel Blender Tax Credit will  
be available for several years to come. However, should such incentives decrease  
or cease altogether, leaving power generation with biodiesel uneconomic, RPL has 
the option to sell its entire biodiesel output and maintain a substantial level of profits 
and free cash flow generation.
RPL is in the process of building a biodiesel refining facility to provide greater  
control over both the cost and quality of fuel supply. The plant (the key components 
of which are being fabricated in Germany and are to be shipped to the US for plant 
assembly) uses proven technology already successfully operating in biodiesel refining 
plants in Germany and Holland. This biodiesel technology is modular and can  
be easily expanded to accommodate increasing demand from the Company’s  
power plants. Any excess biodiesel not used in our power plants will be sold to  
third parties.
CHi EF EXECUti VE o FFi CER’s 
REVi EW o F o PERAtio Ns d avid M. l ewis PRESIdENT ANd  
ChIEF ExECUTIvE OFFICER 05 Renewable Power & Light plc • Annual report 2006
Our biodiesel refinery will initially use refined, bleached and deodorised (RBD) palm 
oil as a feedstock. We currently have in place a fixed-price 20-month contract with  
a large North American palm oil supplier. Within the terms of the contract, we have 
secured a further three years of RBD palm oil supply (until the end of 2011) which 
incorporates a price stabilisation mechanism, exposing RPL to a maximum price 
increase of 20% of the market index price increase over the contract price. 
Nonetheless, we will continue to review, as a matter of course, our feedstock supply 
arrangements with a view to continuously ensuring the most cost competitive, 
secure solution for the supply of renewable fuel to our power plants. This 
continuous review may include sourcing feedstock supplies in a variety of different 
ways, including dealing directly with certain farmers and suppliers. As a producer of 
renewable power, we support the Round Table on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and 
work to ensure that all raw material is sourced from sustainable plantations. 
In order to mitigate the risk of energy market price volatility, our strategy is to 
commit a portion of the output of the power plants to sale through long-term 
power purchase agreements. 
 
We have made significant progress since the Company was established last year.  
At the time of our flotation in December, we completed the acquisition of two 
power plants in the northeastern United States for a total consideration of 
US$25.1m, US$18.2m of which was financed from the proceeds of the IPO. 
Power plants
The 85 MW dual fuel Massena plant is located in upstate New York and the 65MW 
dual fuel Elmwood Park plant is located in New Jersey. Re-permitting of the Massena 
plant to use biodiesel is expected to take place in 2007, with the re-permitting of the 
Elmwood Park plant expected in Q4 of 2008. 
The electricity generated at the Massena plant is expected to be sold to the local 
grid both via long-term offtake agreements and through the spot market. Until it is 
re-permitted the Elmwood Park plant will be run on natural gas and will sell power 
to the peaking market through the existing grid or the interconnected paper mill 
located adjacent to the power plant.
Our initial portfolio of power plants will be run on 
biodiesel and as a result, we expect to aggregate 
available government incentives such as Renewable 
Energy Credits (RECs) and Blender Tax Credits 
(blender credits). 
Renewable ene RGy 
TRANSFORMS FOSSIL-FUELEd 
FACILITIES MAkING ThEM 
RENEWABLE 06 Renewable Power & Light plc • Annual report 2006
Massena
On 6 April 2007 we announced the successful completion of a test burn at the 
Massena plant. The test burn, under which the facility was run at full capacity for 
several hours, used biodiesel as fuel rather than natural gas. Whilst running on 
biodiesel, there were no operating problems and the plant ran within all expected 
and acceptable operating levels and temperature limits. Furthermore, plant emissions 
were in line with predicted values and electricity generated during the test was sold 
to the local electricity grid. 
This was an extremely encouraging result, which validates our business model and 
confirms that traditional power plants can be successfully run on biodiesel. We are 
now in the process of submitting a report to the New York State environmental 
agency to support our application to add biodiesel as an additional permitted fuel  
at the Massena plant.
Elmwood Park
Work continues toward the preparation of the Elmwood Park power plant for re-
permitting. Since the IPO, we have re-commissioned this plant and on 23 April 2007, 
the plant was run on natural gas and liquid fuel for several hours in preparation for  
a stack test, which is expected to take place in May. Once the stack test results are 
known, we will be in a position to start commercial production of power and steam.
Biodiesel facility
We have also progressed toward our goal of producing biodiesel from our own 
facility by Q4 of 2007. In January 2007, we announced an agreement with Greenline 
Industries, LLC of San Rafael, California, to build our biodiesel refining equipment  
at a cost of US$23.6m. The facility’s principal components are being fabricated in 
Germany and will be shipped to the US for plant assembly in Q3, 2007. The biodiesel 
refinery will have a capacity of 60 million gallons per year and will allow the 
Company to secure both the quantity and quality of biodiesel required to fire  
the Massena power plant. We expect to expand the biodiesel refinery’s capacity  
by a further 30 million gallons in 2008 in order to produce sufficient biodiesel  
for use in our Elmwood Park power plant. 
During Q1, 2007 there was a short delay in receiving technical information relating 
to the refinery’s balance of plant equipment. This situation has now been 
successfully resolved. We now anticipate that the biodiesel refinery will be fully 
commissioned in Q4, 2007 and that base load biodiesel operations will begin at  
the Massena power plant in Q1, 2008. We do not expect any material change to 
projected earnings for the current year, as the Company intends to sell into the 
market that palm oil that would have been used in firing the Massena power plant  
in Q4, 2007.
CHi EF EXECUti VE o FFi CER’s 
REVi EW o F o PERAtio Ns CONTINUED
l ife cycle use of biodiesel 
PROdUCES 80% LESS CO
2
 ThAN 
dIESEL OIL 07 Renewable Power & Light plc • Annual report 2006
In February 2007 we entered into an agreement with International Matex Tank 
Terminals (IMTT), through whom RPL will lease a storage terminal for its palm oil 
feed stock and refined B100 biodiesel. The terminal, located at the port in Bayonne, 
New Jersey, is undergoing some minor modifications and is expected to be ready to 
receive our feedstock by Q4 of 2007. The central location of this facility and its 
existing infrastructure make it ideal for our purposes. Preliminary investigations 
indicate that the site may be expanded to accommodate our future requirements. 
In order to transport the refined biodiesel from the biodiesel refinery to the Massena 
and Elmwood Park power plants, we entered into a lease agreement with Procor 
Limited, Ontario, in January 2007. Under the terms of the lease agreement, Procor 
will build and provide RPL with 100 specialist rail wagons. A security deposit of 
US$600,000 was paid to ensure the delivery of the cars in Q4 of 2007.
Growing our portfolio
As highlighted at the time of our flotation, the management are aware of a number 
of other power plants that may provide opportunities for further acquisitions. In 
order to provide sufficient flexibility to capitalise on these potential growth 
opportunities, the Directors are proposing to obtain shareholder approval at the 
forthcoming AGM to disapply statutory pre-emption rights over the allotment of  
new shares representing 25% of the existing issue share capital of the Company.
People
RPL has expanded its number of personnel from eight at the point of IPO to a core 
team of over 30 people today. This includes senior management, engineering staff, 
power station personnel and administrative staff. We are continuing to add 
professional staff to our team to achieve our stated business model goals.
Outlook
We are pleased with the progress that we have made to date and we remain 
confident about RPL’s growth potential. The successful test burn has demonstrated 
the validity of RPL’s business model. With an indicative off-take agreement for 
electricity sales received and letters of intent for sale of biodiesel and surplus RBD 
palm oil into the oils and vehicle fuel markets in place, our innovative and repeatable 
model is now well positioned to deliver growth and profitability going forward. 
David M. Lewis • President and Chief Executive Officer
26 April 2007
On 6 April we announced the successful 
completion of a test burn at the Massena plant. 
The test burn, under which the facility was run  
at full capacity for several hours, used biodiesel 
as fuel rather than natural gas. This test is an 
important milestone, which validates our  
business model.
Renewable powe R &  
li Ght IS EMPOWEREd By  
ITS UNIqUE ENERGy ANd  
SOLId v ISION
