 Improved trading during the second half enabled the Group to
achieve progress in the operating results for all the businesses
last year. In 2004/05 the dramatic and rapid increase in steel
prices severely impacted costs. This year steel prices have been
stable and some small reductions have been seen; however,
steel costs are still at least 40% higher than at the start of
2004/05. These increases have now been substantially offset
by increased selling prices and cost reductions. Despite the
need to pass on the increased cost of steel, sales growth was
achieved. The increases in freight, utility and other energy
related costs are a concern going forward.
The strategy of reducing our dependence on manufacturing
in the traditional areas of Europe and the US continued with
the establishment of facilities in Poland, Malaysia and China.
Increasingly these will provide the cost platform that will
protect the existing business base and allow sales penetration
into markets and countries where Renold has not traditionally
been strong. These facilities will serve both local and
international markets during the forthcoming year. Further
investment in the sales teams has also been made in these
and other growing markets.
The strategy of focusing on the core Industrial Power
Transmission business was taken forward with the
announcement in June of the proposed sale of the
Automotive and Machine Tools businesses. The Automotive
business, despite some improvement in the second half,
continued to be unprofitable and to consume cash. Renold
was a relatively small player in the automotive supply industry
compared with the size of its major competitors. Double digit
sales growth, over the past few years, driven by technical
excellence, demanded significant continued investment.
INA-Schaeffler KG, with over€5.0 billion sales in the
automotive segment and manufacturing locations in many
parts of the world, including Europe, USA and China, is in
a better position to serve this market. The Automotive
manufacturing and design facilities are based in Calais and
St Siméon in France and Morristown, Tennessee, in the US.
Automotive product manufacturing in Einbeck, Germany,
has been transferred to St Siméon.
The Machine Tools business has little overlap with the core
businesses but is cyclical and, at times, has a high demand
for cash. The business operates from self-contained sites in
Rochdale (Holroyd/Edgetek) and Leicester (Jones & Shipman).
A production cell for loose gears will transfer from the
Machine Tools business to the adjacent Renold Gears site
after completion of the proposed transaction.
Following these proposed divestitures, Renold will be a more
focused Group. Going forward it will have the ability to invest
more heavily in the Industrial Power Transmission business and
will accelerate changes to the manufacturing footprint and
development of sales, particularly in the USA, China, Eastern
Europe and South America.
Robert Davies,
Chief Executive
5
Chief Executive’s Review When Schindler Austria, one of the leading suppliers of escalators worldwide,
wanted to simplify the main drive system for their escalators, they turned to
Renold Gears to design and develop a bespoke ‘slim-line’ solution.
The moving steps of the escalator had previously been driven by a combination
of drive systems consisting of gear and chain transmissions, linked to the main
head-shaft, an extremely space consuming design. For aesthetical reasons and
ease of maintenance, Schindler required the gearbox to be shaft mounted
directly on to the head-shaft of the escalators, thereby eliminating all other
drive components.
Renold faced the challenge of designing a gearbox to fit in a space no wider
than 150mm whilst still providing sufficient torque to drive the escalator with
drive helical box, fitted with a standard first reduction worm and wheel drive
to achieve the overall ratio required.
Renold’s ability to undertake and develop complete drive solutions in short
lead times highlights our dominance in the People Movement industry.
Slimline Gearbox Solves Complex Drive Solution
6
a full load. The bespoke solution, which Renold Gears developed, was a main
