 OVERVIEW
It has been a year of progress towards returning the Group
to its Power Transmission core competency and improving
profitability and future prospects for the business.
In line with the Board’s strategic direction for the Group in
targeting a more tightly focused business with a substantially
lower cost base and a reduced level of borrowings, the
Group announced the proposed sale of its Machine Tools and
Automotive businesses, the proceeds of which will be used
to reduce bank debt. In the light of these proposed sales,
the results of the Group show separately the results of the
continuing Group businesses.
There were unprecedented steel price increases in the second
half of last year and the pressures on the Group were
compounded by a continuing weakness of the US Dollar.
Where steel represents the major part of raw material costs,
a vigorous programme of sales price increases and cost
reduction was implemented and this has resulted in improved
margins and profitability of the ongoing industrial power
transmission business.
Continuing operations’ profitability improved, reaching an
operating profit before exceptional items of £6.8 million
compared with £4.6 million in 2005. This result reflected
strong sales growth in North America but with weaker market
conditions persisting in Europe until the later part of the year.
Development of the Group’s activities in China continued with
further contracts won.
Continuing operations recorded a pre-tax profit of £1.8 million
compared with a pre-tax loss of £1.8 million in 2005. All
figures take account of the new International Financial
Reporting Standards and comparative numbers have been
restated as appropriate.
After an impairment charge of £12.8 million relating to
discontinued operations, the Group loss for the year was
£13.6 million compared with a loss of £0.1 million in
2004/05.
Group net borrowings, excluding preference shares, ended
the year at £20.2 million compared with £17.0 million the
previous year. It is intended that proceeds from the sale of the
Machine Tools and Automotive businesses will substantially
reduce the level of debt going forward.
DIVIDEND
Given this year of transition the Board believes it is prudent to
recommend that no dividend be paid for the year. The Board
will consider future dividend policy in the light of results from
the re-focused business.
BOARD CHANGES
Tony Brown, Finance Director, and Geoffrey Newton, Company
Secretary, both plan to retire following the 2006 AGM. Both
are long-term employees of the Company and we thank them
for their unstinted contribution over many years.
Peter Bream joined the Board on 1 July, 2006 and will replace
Tony Brown as Finance Director effective from the 2006 AGM.
Peter Bream is an experienced accountant having been
Finance Director of Provalis plc, a UK listed company, prior
to his appointment. Keith Brown, Company Solicitor, will
replace Geoffrey Newton as Company Secretary in a new
combined role.
PROSPECTS
Overall, the economic environment continues positive
although concerns remain over the negative impact of
escalating raw material and energy costs. That said, the
refocused business, with a reduced cost base, is better
positioned to show further progress during 2006/07.
Roger Leverton,
Chairman
3
Chairman’s Statement Our customers’ experiences prove that Renold Synergy lasts longer and
provides superior value for money over all other competitors’ chains.
Renold Synergy’s success in Europe has proliferated into the USA and Australia,
with engineers around the world endorsing the outstanding wear and fatigue
resistance and exceptional working life of this revolutionary chain.
An ever increasing list of applications demonstrates the flexibility of Renold
Synergy, with successes documented from customers across a diverse range
of industries.
A leading food manufacturer in the US producing bakery and confectionery
products specified Renold Synergy on its most arduous mixer application,
extending chain life from 8 weeks to 11 months.
Renold Synergy proves its worth in the demanding environment of the
packaging industry, by reducing downtime for a major producer of glass
and plastic packaging and enabling Europe’s largest manufacturer of
metal packaging to keep their high volume capacity at its optimum level.
And it doesn’t end there. Renold Synergy also made it onto the big screen
when the famous Pinewood Studios in the UK and a studio equipment
company in Hollywood both specified Renold for use on their special effects
mechanisms, and camera dollies.
Renold Synergy – the success keeps on rolling
Renold Synergy
4
