 2 Abacus Group plc
Abacus Group at a glance
 ecc
Abacus has a portfolio of over 180 franchises with 15 trading
operations providing technical distribution services through
locally based sales offices across Europe. The division’s
extensive portfolio covers a vast range of products including
electromechanical components, semiconductors, passives,
batteries, displays, wireless communications, embedded
computing and opto devices.
Abacus is focused on delivering exceptional design-in and
technical support to a full spectrum of customers from the
small entrepreneur to the multinational corporation. By working
in partnership with suppliers, Abacus ensures that 
its team of application engineers and product specialists are
fully trained to provide technical support at every stage of the
product development. The Group's diverse product portfolio 
is complimented by world class supply chain management
services helping customers improve efficiency and profitability.
Distribution
75875 Pre  18/12/07  21:07  Page 2 3 Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Alpha 3 Manufacturing Group, created in February 2007 
as a separate standalone business, unites Abacus’ three
manufacturing operations, DEM Manufacturing (previously
Deltron Emcon), CTL Manufacturing and CCS Electronics, 
in providing ‘Total Customer Satisfaction’ through exceptional
quality products and electromechanical manufacturing services
for low, medium and high volumes. Alpha3 operates a lean
manufacturing and continuous improvement philosophy
focused on improving efficiency, service, quality, cycle 
times and costs in all of its processes in order to pass the
benefits directly on to its customers thereby providing the
most competitive solution.
Abacus Group’s own brand component businesses 
represent an extensive portfolio of high quality, internationally
approved, cost-effective products encompassing passives,
electromechanical components, batteries and switches.
Available throughout Europe, all Abacus own brand products
are supported by extensive locally held inventory and a robust
supply chain. The product range is continually evaluated to
ensure that the changing demands of the electronics market
continue to be supported.
Own Brand Alpha 3 Manufacturing Group
75875 Pre  18/12/07  21:07  Page 3
