 04 Chairman’ s statement Renold plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Looking forward, we will continue to focus on cost reduction 
and on extending geographically . Thus far , the emphasis has been 
on moving the appropriate manufacturing capacity to low-cost
countries – a strategy which will continue to yield growth in our core
developed market territories. In addition, now that we are physically
present in these low-cost markets, we are in an excellent position to
expand our highly regarded product range into them. We estimate
that an annual industrial chain market of £400 million exists in new
territories where we have a current market share of less than 1%. The
expansion to new geographies and product gaps will continue to be
pursued via selective infill acquisitions.
T o this effect, it was announced on 9 June that Renold is in
discussions to acquire a 75% interest in the industrial chain business
of L.G. Balakrishnan & Bros Ltd (‘LGB’), a public company listed on 
the stock exchange in India. This business is the market leader for 
the production and distribution of industrial chains in India as well 
as having established exports. This will enable Renold to promote 
its existing product range into India’s rapidly growing market place,
take account of existing export markets, as well as exploit new
product, market and export opportunities.
Y our Board
Barbara Beckett will retire from the Board at the AGM in July . I would
like to thank Barbara for her contribution over the last three and a
half years, particularly in her role as Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee. I would like to welcome John Allkins who joined the
Board in April 2008 as a non-executive director and as Chairman 
of the Audit Committee. John is also a non-executive director of Intec
T elecom Systems and was previously Group Finance Director of My
T ravel Group plc. Besides financial skills, he has strong international
experience, which will be of benefit in the delivery of the Group’s
current strategy .
Outlook
We enter our next year with a strong sense of purpose, but also 
with some caution regarding the outlook for the global economy ,
notwithstanding that we operate in diverse geographies and sectors
which are somewhat uncorrelated with each other . We plan to pursue,
actively , the considerable opportunities available to us in the rapidly
growing but fragmented emerging markets. However , we will maintain
a particularly strong focus this year on cash management and a risk
aversion with our balance sheet as we do this. As a consequence, the
Board has decided to recommend that no dividend be paid, but it 
will consider future dividend policy in the light of results from the
business going forward. 
Additionally , it will remain important in the current year to continue 
to recover , through price increases and improved efficiency , the
inflation we experience in some of our input costs, predominantly 
in steel, freight and energy . 
Our order book at the end of the first quarter of the new financial
year is particularly strong, and the Company is well positioned in its
geographies and markets. From this solid starting point, I have every
confidence in our ability to perform over the coming year under the
strong leadership of Bob Davies and his executive team. 
Matthew Peacock
Chairman
Overview
In this, my second year as Chairman of your Board, I am again pleased 
to report that Renold has delivered a strong set of results. Revenue
growth of 8% and a strong increase in operating profit of 22% before
tax and exceptionals have generated basic earnings per share of 11.0p,
compared to a loss per share of (18.3p) a year ago. Within the strong
all-round performance set out in this report, the continued delivery 
of the Profit and Cash Enhancement programme (P ACE plan)
announced in March 2007 deserves particular comment. At the
period end, 46% of our direct labour was in low cost countries
compared to the original P ACE target of 40% by March 2009. 
This has grown from only 3% two years ago.
Strategy
We have strengthened the business over the last year , primarily 
via delivering P ACE according to plan. Cost savings, cash generation
and capital expenditure targets have been achieved. Risk reduction
actions on exchange rate exposure and energy prices were concluded.
Progress was made on tax efficiency , pension funding and unlocking
freehold property value. Perhaps most significantly , the integration of 
our June 2007 acquisition of Chinese chain manufacturer Hangzhou
Shanshui was successful, and capacity has been doubled from 
pre-acquisition levels at a very attractive capital cost. 
Chairman’ s statement
Matthew Peacock
Chairman
W e have a strong platform in place
for our next phase of growth.
8536_Renold AR 2008 Frt_TP:Layout 1  25/6/08  17:04  Page 4
