 It is a great pleasure in my first statement to shareholders, 
as the Chairman of your Board, to report a year of excellent
delivery against our strategic objectives, and the prospect
of further progress in the coming years.
Our strategy has been to focus on our main Industrial Chain
business and to give that business the operating and financial
structure its needs to succeed – both in the mature markets
where we are a leader, and in key new developing markets.
We have made significant progress in executing this strategy
during the last year. We have disposed of the Automotive 
and Machine Tool businesses, reduced Group borrowings and
refinanced them under much more favourable terms. These
steps, combined with improved profit and cash generation, 
many years. 
At constant exchange rates our sales have grown in all
overseas regions where the company is represented; China, in
particular, represented a small but very fast growing segment.
The Profit and Cash Enhancement (PACE) programme we
presented in March 2007 is on schedule. One third of the
Chain direct labour is now in China and other low cost
territories which is well ahead of plan. We opened greenfield
manufacturing facilities in Malaysia and China during the
year, and these have shipped products in time and on budget.
In May we announced the acquisition of a 90% interest in 
a manufacturing business in China, which significantly
enhances our worldwide capacity, and reduces our capex
requirements this year by £4 million. Further manufacturing
volume was transferred to our Polish facility, which opened
the previous year. The PACE programme is already providing
superior returns from our established markets and building 
a competitive basis for our growth in developing regions.
Sales growth, a stronger and more efficient company, and the
tangible benefits of the PACE programme served to boost
profit before tax and exceptional items from continuing
operations to £7.3 million an increase of 2.3 times on the
previous year. Part of the focus of PACE is the continued
strengthening of the balance sheet and a reduction in the
volatility of earnings. Net debt reduced slightly in the year
to £19.4 million from £20.7 million last year and further
progress is expected. The net pension deficit on UK funded
liabilities also fell from £23.0 million down to £19.7 million
with considerable progress having been made late in the year
on the asset management activities and work continuing 
on liability management. Arrangements have been made to
appropriately hedge on-going foreign exchange exposure
which had some negative impact during the year and also 
to manage steel price changes which were relatively benign
during the year. 
The Board believe it is prudent to recommend that no dividend
will be paid this year. The Board will consider future dividend
policy in light of the results from the business going forward.
Bob Davies and his team have stretching targets for PACE in
the coming year, and I am confident they will continue to
meet and exceed those targets, as they have done over the
past year.
Finally, I would also like to welcome David Shearer to 
the Company, he joined the Board on 1 May 2007 as a 
non-executive director. David has served as the senior partner
of Deloitte & Touche in Scotland and Northern Ireland and 
on the Main Board of HBOS plc. He brings us a wealth of
experience from these senior roles.
At Renold, we have always been proud of our leadership in
the specialised industrial markets we serve. We are now also
very committed to a strategy that is both delivering financial
results in the short term and building a platform for long
term profitable growth. My Board colleagues and I look
forward to another year of taking this strategy forward 
with confidence.
Matthew Peacock
Chairman
3
Chairman’s Statement
72903 PRE  19/6/07  11:30  Page 3
have given the company its strongest financial position for Huge chain drives offshore application
Renold in Action
A huge length of chain, weighing in at over 
11 tonnes and measuring 225 feet in length, has
been designed and manufactured in the UK by
Renold. It is used to drive a 3,000 tonne capacity
carousel for the laying of undersea pipe and
umbilical cable for the offshore oil industry.
The carousel, dubbed Colossus, is 24 metres 
in diameter and weighs, when empty, some 
450 tonnes. When fully wound it is capable 
of storing up to 120 kilometres of cable for 
such things as connecting land to offshore 
rigs and wellheads.
Designed and built by The Engineering Business
for Subsea 7 the giant carousel is positioned on
its side on an offshore support vessel for the
winding and subsequent laying of cable. The
design team at The Engineering Business
considered a variety of drive options for turning
the carousel but eventually opted for a chain
drive system with four AC motors positioned
around the carousel like points of the compass.
The chain has an expected life span of more
than 20 years despite the harsh environments
in which it will be operating. It is secured
around the circumference of the carousel where
it engages with sprockets attached to the
electric motors. As the sprockets turn, the teeth,
designed with a special rack tooth form, drive
the chain which turns the carousel. A special
feature of the chain is its extended pins, to allow
for up to 30mm of lateral movement. The whole
reel structure sits atop a series of uniquely
designed sprung roller units that are depressed
when the reel is fully loaded. As the carousel is
unwound it is slowly pushed up by the rollers
and the chain’s extended pins allow for this
lateral movement.
The equipment was commissioned just
36 weeks after the initial kick off meeting 
and, according to Subsea 7’s equipment
manager, Brian O’Neill, it’s working 
very well.
72903 PRE  18/6/07  21:32  Page 4
