 Overview
The year was notable for the successful delivery of a number
of significant initiatives. The sale of the Automotive and
Machine Tool businesses followed by refinancing with The
Royal Bank of Scotland, enhanced the financial stability of the
Group. The opening of manufacturing facilities in Malaysia
and China, and the increased output from Poland helped 
drive down the cost base.
The operating profit before exceptional items from continuing
operations improved to £9.8 million, representing a 44%
increase over the previous year. This improvement is despite 
a weaker US dollar resulting in a £1.2 million adverse impact
compared with the previous year.
This improved operating result from continuing operations
reflects sales growth in all overseas regions where the
Company is represented with Group sales increasing 6% at
constant exchange rates to £159.3 million.  Europe recovered
well from the weaker markets of the past few years.  Some
softening was seen in the USA, particularly in the second half.
The additional resources in China have borne fruit, sales
doubling again albeit from a relatively low base.  This sales
growth, along with numerous cost reduction initiatives,
boosted profit before tax and exceptional items from
continuing operations to £7.3 million, a 128% increase 
on the previous year.
T echnology Leadership
The Industrial Chain business provides 70% of Renold’s sales.
By market share, we are the number 2 global player operating
in over 90 countries with direct sales teams in 18 of these.
Renold maintains a technology leadership in Industrial Chain.
This is evidenced by our Synergy product range, which carries
a significant price premium to all competing brands. Customers
are willing to pay this premium because the products wear
and maintenance characteristics can significantly lower their
cost of ownership. Applications such as the Thames Barrier,
theme park rides and certain continuous process industry
applications demonstrate the high integrity reputation that
Renold Chain has. It is our intention to increasingly invest in
engineering and product development to maintain this
technology leadership and reputation.
PACE
The Profit and Cash Enhancement plan, which was presented
in March 2007, encapsulated a number of the cost reduction
initiatives into a single coherent plan.  The main thrust of the
cost reduction is the migration of product manufacturing
from relatively high cost manufacturing sites in the UK 
and Germany, to lower cost sites in Poland and China. The
funds required for these transfers are to be generated by an
inventory reduction programme and sales of surplus property.
I am pleased to report that the PACE plan was on schedule at
the year-end and continues to be so.
Renold Hangzhou
In May, we announced the agreement for the acquisition 
of a 90% interest in the business of HangZhou ShanShui
(“HZSS”), a Chain manufacturer based in Hangzhou, China
200 kilometres west of Shanghai. This acquisition is consistent
with the PACE plan by providing a well established chain
manufacturing facility into which certain products currently
made in the UK and Germany can be relocated. Renold
reviewed over 70 separate Chain companies in China and
performed limited due diligence on 10 of these. HZSS was
selected because of the strength of its engineering resource
and its focus on product quality. A good working relationship
at several levels has been developed between existing HZSS
and Renold staff over the past two years. This acquisition will
reduce the execution risk of the PACE programme. Measured
by the tonnage of steel used, Renold Hangzhou is currently
larger than the UK facility in Bredbury but smaller than the
German facility in Einbeck.
In addition, Renold Hangzhou will provide a platform for 
sales growth within China and other low cost countries.
Renold can now offer a product range from exceptional high
performance to products that are cost competitive with 
those originating from any part of the world.
Service
In addition to excellence in design and competitive pricing,
our customers demand outstanding levels of service. 
A number of initiatives are in place to drive further
improvements in meeting customer expectations.
In recognition of the success of these initiatives, I am proud to
report that Renold were awarded ‘Supplier of Year’ by A.I.T., the
second largest Power Transmission Distributor in the USA and
our largest customer. This award was judged on the level of
sales support, quality of the product, technology innovation
and profitability. This award was clearly a team effort but in
particular, I would like to recognise the determination of the
efforts of our Sales Team in the USA, our Manufacturing teams
in the UK and Germany and our Global Engineering team.
Further recognition for our customer service came from
Kinecor, the largest Canadian distributor who identified
Renold as a ‘Top 5 Supplier’.
Robert Davies
Chief Executive
5
Chief Executive’s Review
72903 PRE  19/6/07  13:25  Page 5 Renold in Action
High-tech gearbox repairs 
return units that are better than before
Renold Gears’ gearbox-repair service was put to
the test just recently when it won the contract
from steel maker Corus to refurbish the massive
dog-bar gearboxes at its Teesside Beam Mill. 
The gearboxes are amongst the biggest Renold
has ever repaired, standing over five feet high
and weighing in at around ten tons each.
They are over 40 years old and now require
re-engineering to a very high standard. 
Renold’s ability to repair old gearboxes and
improve on the original specification was one
of the key factors that helped the company
win the prestigious contract.
Corus’ Beam Mill manufactures a range of steel
sections for the construction industry at its
large plant on Teesside, measuring around one
kilometre.  The sections are produced from ten
ton steel blooms or larger slabs weighing up to
30 tons, following which they are cut to length
and then stacked in cooling banks where they
are allowed to cool to ambient temperature
prior to despatch. It is here, in pits beneath the
floor of the cooling banks that the dog-bar
gearboxes are found. Cam arms attached to the
output shafts of the gearboxes rise up when
rotated and transfer the hot sections over to
the cooling banks.
The gearboxes were originally manufactured
in 1964 by Crofts Engineers, of Bradford, a
company that was acquired by Renold just
three years later in 1967. The original blueprints
were found in the company’s archives and
so components for the gearboxes could be
manufactured to their original specifications,
but modified for enhanced performance.
The gearboxes are being refurbished one at
a time and the first of four was returned to
its Teesside home in May 2006. Renold’s
repair team improved the original specification
in several ways so that the repaired unit
was better than when it was new. The team
redesigned and upgraded the material 
of the output shaft and fitted an internal
pumping system to feed lubrication directly
to the gears and bearings. The case was
also ultrasonically tested for leaks prior to
reassembly with the new gears, shafts,
bearings and the new pumping system. 
The second gearbox is due to be installed
during the plant’s July shutdown when the next
gearbox will be taken away for repair.
72903 PRE  18/6/07  21:32  Page 6
