 Chief Executive’ s review 05 Renold plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Chief Executive’ s review
Working capital
I am pleased to report that return on capital employed improved 
in the year to 17% from 15% in 2006/07 . The working capital to sales
ratio was maintained at 17% and, although inventory increased 
by £7 .9 million, inventory turns were unchanged.
Movements in exchange rates added £2.9 million to inventory, which
also increased as a consequence of higher sales volumes and the
increased cost of steel during the year . Understandably , working
capital rose as a result of the acquisition of Hangzhou and also
because of the buffer stocks manufactured as production was
relocated. We will be addressing this through inventory reduction,
which will result in cash generation and which will be of particular
focus in the coming year .
Renold Hangzhou
In June 2007 , we completed the acquisition of a 90% interest in
Hangzhou Shanshui, a chain manufacturer based in Hangzhou,
China, 200 kilometres west of Shanghai. Integration has proceeded
well with capacity more than doubled from pre-acquisition levels and
we now have over 400 employees who are skilled and capable of
maintaining high quality standards. The increase in capacity was the
result of both improved operating practices and £2 million of capital
expenditure. A large part of this capital expenditure was sourced
locally and represents excellent value for money compared to what 
it would cost if sourced in Europe or in the US. This important
strategic acquisition underpins and reduces the execution risk of
P ACE and provides a major growth opportunity in the domestic
Chinese market and into other parts of South East Asia.
As reported in the media, input costs in China, particularly steel, have
increased rapidly and significantly . We are actively pursuing price
increases and cost reductions in order to offset these increases.
Potential acquisition in India
Renold announced on 9 June on the London Stock Exchange that 
it is in discussions to acquire a 75% interest in the industrial chain
business of an Indian quoted group, L.G. Balakrishnan & Bros Ltd
(‘LGB’). LGB has three divisions, one of which is a chain division. 
We are seeking to acquire all assets of LGB’s chain division other 
than those employed in the manufacture of chains to the automotive
industry , which will be retained by LGB. The remainder is the part we
are seeking to acquire. This part employs approximately 500 people
involved in the manufacture of transmission chain and conveyor
chain. This business is based in T amil Nadu, India. The predominant
reason for this acquisition is an entry into the Indian market, which 
is one of the fastest growing in the world.
This business, already the market leader for the production and
distribution of industrial chains in India, will provide an established
manufacturing base and sales distribution network. This network 
will enable Renold to promote its existing product range into India’s
rapidly growing market place. In addition, the business manufactures
products not currently in our portfolio which can be sold through our
existing sale distribution channels. This transaction follows on from
last year’s successful acquisition and integration of Renold Hangzhou
in China and is part of our strategy for growth into new markets. 
If this acquisition concludes, this would exceed the revised P ACE
target of 60% of the chain direct labour force being in low cost
countries. Successful completion of the transaction is dependent
upon a number of factors, including regulatory and LGB shareholder
approvals which are currently being sought.
Bob Davies
Chief Executive
Our strategy is delivering financial
results in the short term and 
building a platform for long term
profitable growth.
Overview
I would characterise this year as one of delivering on the challenging
targets set and good progress on our strategic, longer term ambitions. 
I am very proud of Renold’s heritage, the patenting of the first
transmission chain and over 100 years experience of establishing 
and maintaining our reputation of superior technology , quality and
customer satisfaction. Renold today highlights where we are now,
capitalising on our heritage coupled with our resolve to be at the
forefront of our industry . Renold tomorrow summarises how we 
will maintain and improve on this position in the forthcoming years.
At the time of writing we have just announced our planned purchase
of LGB in India which demonstrates our commitment to growth 
in emerging markets and adding value for our customers.
Results
I am proud that we achieved an 8% increase in sales over the last 
year and this result, together with the 22% improvement in the
operating profit before tax and exceptionals, means that the P ACE
plan is delivering to the bottom line. We will continue to cost control
our activities whilst aggressively seeking profitable sales growth
across the world in the many sectors in which we operate.
8536_Renold AR 2008 Frt_TP:Layout 1  25/6/08  17:04  Page 5 06 Chief Executive’ s review Renold plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Renold today ...
Sales and orders
E arnings
Balance sheet and working capital
Curr encies
> T wo years ago when we were implementing P ACE it was anticipated
that we would focus on cost reduction rather than increasing 
our top line. It is therefore pleasing to report that turnover has
increased by 11% in this period despite a strong currency headwind
to contend with. At the same time we have seen incoming orders
rise across the Group which provides a solid platform going forward.
> A key objective of P ACE was to improve our operating profits 
and margin. Compared to two years ago, our operating profit 
has increased by 76% to £12 million and the margin moved from
4.4% to 7 .0%. It is well known that we have set ourselves an
operating margin of 10% under P ACE. We remain on course to 
do this despite the tougher economic climate in much of the
developed world during the last twelve months.
> At the end of our 2006 year we had net debt of £20.7 million and 
a gross pension fund deficit of £53.9 million. We currently have 
net debt of £23.9 million and the pension deficit has been reduced
to £31.2 million. Overall, we have reduced debt and quasi debt 
by £19.5 million despite acquiring Hangzhou in China last July . 
It is fair to say that the balance sheet is now far more robust than
it has been in the past and we are far more in control of our
destiny than was the case only a few years ago. Having said this,
there is still scope for improvement in this area.
> We are now a genuinely international company both in terms 
of manufacturing facilities and sales. We have had to cope with
significant US$ weakness in the last two years and the Euro 
has also been a concern from time to time. It is therefore pleasing
to report that our strong focus on currency hedging and use of
‘low cost’ production centres for manufacturing have produced
tangible positive results. 
Chief Executive’ s review
continued
8536_Renold AR 2008 Frt_TP:Layout 1  25/6/08  17:04  Page 6 Chief Executive’ s review 07 Renold plc Annual report and accounts 2008
and tomorrow
Our key objectives are:
W e will achieve this through:
> We have made an acquisition in China and plan to acquire in India and intend 
to increase our geographical footprint, particularly in South America where we
are currently under represented. W e intend to increase our activity in developing
countries, particularly those that offer both domestic and export opportunities.
> It is vital that we optimise our manufacturing base in order to remain
competitive and profitable. Our recent acquisitions go a long way to
addressing the issue but there is still more to do in this area. We have 
placed great emphasis on improving logistics and this is another priority 
for us moving forward.
> Renold has always had a reputation for innovation and we intend to
continue to build on this in order to maintain and increase our advantage 
in application solutions. This is where the ‘added value’ lies in our industry . 
At the same time we intend to maintain and build on our technology
leadership which is well recognised by customers. 
> We have set targets for improving our Return on Sales and Return on 
Assets which we are well on the way to achieving. However , we operate 
in a competitive environment so we must continue to pay close attention 
to costs and reap the full benefits of ‘low cost’ production, particularly as
certain raw material prices have risen sharply in recent times. Our increased
global footprint will grow even more. 
> A policy of selective acquisitions that will further increase and improve 
our geographical and product footprints as well as raising Group turnover
and profitability .
> Placing even greater emphasis on our technological leadership as well as
raising the quality of our solutions and customer service to yet higher levels.
> Ongoing attention to costs has been a central theme of the P ACE plan and
this will continue to be key looking ahead, with controls now in place that
have already proved to be effective in reducing risks to profitability .
> Getting even closer to having a manufacturing base that optimises
production of our products worldwide. The much greater emphasis now 
put on ‘low cost’ production, whilst still maintaining quality , is central to
improving our profitability in future years.
> Setting targets for our operating margin and return on capital employed
which are attainable based on our action plans set out above being
executed as expected. 
8536_Renold AR 2008 Frt_TP:Layout 1  25/6/08  17:04  Page 7 08 Chief Executive’ s review Renold plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Chief Executive’ s review
continued
Renold has maintained its
technology leadership through 
the design and development of
products to solve some of the major
problems faced in industry today .
Service
The world is becoming a smaller place and increasingly competitive,
so Renold has a product offering covering the spectrum of needs 
from Solution products at one end to utility products, for less exacting
applications, at the other . In all cases, the need for excellent service 
is paramount and a Global Supply Chain organisation has been created
in order to ensure that this expectation is fully met. The goals of
improving on-time delivery , quality and cost have been key objectives,
as this year we intend to keep ongoing focus on these areas particularly
with the increased volatility of raw material supply and costs
witnessed in recent times.
Organisation
Our organisation has been changed to meet our growth ambitions
and the need to be able to best manufacture wherever in the 
world. We have developed and implemented Global Supply Chain
organisation which will ultimately have the responsibility for
manufacturing efficiency and customer fulfilment within our chain
factories. This will give us the capacity and capability to be responsive
and flexible to our current and new customer needs. 
Gears and Couplings
The Gears and Couplings business continues to have good sales 
and profit growth. This growth is being driven by the steel, mining,
power generation and transportation industrial sectors in which they
operate. Their highly engineered products are valued by customers
across the world particularly in China, Europe, Africa and the USA. The
contract with Alstom for the mass transit system in the State of New
Y ork has been extended and will generate $14 million sales over the
next 18 months. Following the acquisition of Renold Hangzhou we
have consolidated the manufacture in China of chain products and
components there. The Beicai facility in Shanghai is now devoted to
the manufacture of gears and couplings products and components.
This gives this business access to local markets and a lower cost of
manufacture.
We have a clear strategy and a track record of delivering performance.
The Renold team is capable and enthused to meet our strategic
ambitions. We look forward with confidence to another 
successful year .
Bob Davies
Chief Executive
Pensions
Considerable progress has been made during the year through 
asset management activities. In particular , a more progressive asset
management policy has been agreed and implemented leading to 
a more diverse and less correlated portfolio. The net UK pension
deficit has reduced to £6.8 million (March 2007 – £19.7 million). This
reduction has arisen in part due to the discount rate increasing to
6.6% as a result of market interest movements. We are aggressively
looking at options to minimise risk going forward.
The gross pension deficit of £31.2 million at 31 March 2008 shows 
a decrease of £16.8 million from £48.0 million at 31 March 2007 . 
Burton property
The sale of the Burton-upon-T rent property was concluded in 
January 2008 and the gross proceeds of £6.4 million were used to
reduce net debt and realised a profit of £2.6 million which is reported
as an exceptional item. This was a key element in the funding of 
the P ACE plan.
T echnology
Renold has maintained its technology leadership through the 
design and development of products to solve some of the power
transmission issues faced in industry today, resulting in building
strong relationships with both OEMs and end users. These ‘solution
products’ are aimed at achieving high performance, low maintenance
and harmony with the environment. Renold Synergy has been 
a flagship product for several years, offering unsurpassed
performance in highly demanding environments, but for applications
where oil free operation is needed such as the food industry , a range
of products known by the ‘Renold Syno’ brand are offered. In addition,
‘Renold Hydroservice’ has gained in popularity in applications where
resistance to corrosion is a priority . Renold has invested in a range 
of ‘Smartlink’ products, developed to give visibility of the actual loads
and wear in a chain drive system. This has enabled many customers
to improve and optimise their own products. The innovative approach
to chain engineering has led to strong technical ties with major
global OEMs. Renold has continued to invest in engineering in the 
last year including the addition of a state of the art R&D facility 
in China and an Innovation Centre in the UK. We intend to make
further investments in the coming year .
8536_Renold AR 2008 Frt_TP:Layout 1  25/6/08  17:04  Page 8 Chief Executive’ s review 09 Renold plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Dartford Creek flood defence system
Chain monitoring knows no barriers
Renold’ s ingenuity and solution capability were
called upon to overcome the technological
demands involved in manufacturing a massive
chain to be used in the raising and lowering of
barriers at the Dartford Creek flood defence
system. This system is part of several including the
Thames Barrier , that protect London from flooding. 
Keeping plant and machinery running smoothly is becoming
increasingly sophisticated, particularly on heavy-duty applications.
In less demanding applications the wear of components is largely 
a constant, and predictive maintenance keeps machinery running
smoothly . It is different on arduous applications where plant and
machinery operates at the extremes of tolerances. 
The Dartford Barrier is made up of two towers, each almost 100 feet
high that stand aside the Darent tributary river . Between them 
are sections of barrier that are lowered into place sequentially to
form a defensive wall against high tides. The chain that drives the
mechanism is massive. Over 90 metres in length, it weighs 
13 tonnes with a breaking load of 285 tonnes. This chain is tough, 
for as well as having to bear huge loads when the enormous
sections of barrier are raised and lowered, parts of it have to endure
spending significant amounts of time submerged underwater .
Manufactured in the UK, the high specification chain was made
specifically for purpose. The 6.5 inch pitch links have grease nipples 
so that lubricant can be applied directly to the link to create 
a protective layer between the pin, bush and roller . 
The chain is also completely coated in grease to protect it from
corrosive elements. It is also monitored at regular intervals by
Smartlink, the latest in chain monitoring technology from Renold.
Careful monitoring is paramount. Components pushed to the 
limits could, if left undetected, lead to premature wear or even
catastrophic failure. However, knowledge of these factors enables
maintenance engineers to be proactive. 
Smartlink consists of a strain gauge linked to a microprocessor
which collects data about the stresses and forces the chain is
exposed to during the lowering and raising of the barrier . 
The Smartlink units are connected to the chain’s side plates and 
the information collected can be downloaded to a hand-held 
device and analysed. 
It was discovered that the friction caused by the mechanism of the
gates being opened and closed was higher than anticipated causing
the chain to experience loads towards the upper end of its calculated
working limit under extreme conditions. By establishing this fact
prior to the chain being damaged the maintenance team were able
to reduce friction levels and thus the loading on the chain.
The most sophisticated version of Smartlink, as fitted on the
Dartford Barrier, is capable of collecting a wide range of data 
and is often used where there are unresolved issues or on safety
critical applications. 
The Dartford Creek Barrier solution represents an excellent example
of Renold’s ability to provide innovative and technologically capable
bespoke solutions, satisfying customers’ requirements however
critical the application, arduous the conditions and specific the need. 
8536_Renold AR 2008 Frt_TP:Layout 1  25/6/08  17:04  Page 9 10 Chief Executive’ s review Renold plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Screw down gearboxes
Innovative solution from Renold Gears
Screw down gears for an Asian customer are the
largest ever made. Another innov ative solution
from R enold Gears is further proof that the
company has a diverse range of talent when it
comes to solving problems for customers. 
During the year under review, Renold Gears completed the
manufacturing of the heaviest pair of worm wheel gearboxes 
in the company’s history at its site in Milnrow near, Rochdale. 
With a combined weight approaching 25 tons, these huge
gearboxes were ordered by a customer in Asia. This alone is proof
that Renold’s reach and reputation is genuinely international. 
Designed and manufactured to be installed in an existing steel mill,
the gear units are to be fitted as the main drives of a screw down
mechanism which is used to reform recently cast steel billets into
thinner width sections. The screw down gear units are driven by
massive 220kW motors and literally squeeze the steel into the
required section widths.
The units are a single reduction worm gear design with a reduction
ratio of 21.5/1 and designed specifically for the application with 
a huge tooth thickness to withstand in excess of 530,000 Nm 
of static torque. 
They are manufactured in pairs and are identical externally but
internally the gears are cut with opposite angle gearing known as
left and right hand threads. This gives the desired effect of giving
opposite direction of rotation of the output when both units’ inputs
are driven in the same direction.
Renold Gears has manufactured and supplied many similar screw
down gear drives in the past and also supplied specialised worm
gears to customers who have built them into their own gearboxes.
Where sudden and huge shock loads are going to be encountered,
only worm wheel sets manufactured with the maximum tooth
width are suitable. In addition, only the combination of hardened
steel worm shafts and ‘soft’ phosphor bronze worm wheels 
allow these loads to be withstood with no detrimental effect 
on service life.
The division’s capability to undertake complete custom made
systems designed to meet the customer specifications, has enabled
Renold Gears to continue to win these types of contracts in diverse
markets around the world.
8536_Renold AR 2008 Frt_TP:Layout 1  25/6/08  17:04  Page 10
