 Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 06
Re-engineering our future
The Bredbury closure project has been  
a major undertaking for the Group.  
It involved the relocation of manufacturing 
operations representing just under 12% 
of the Chain division’s external revenue. 
The project required the coordination  
of five of the six major chain production 
facilities with particular focus on the 
closing site in Bredbury and the principal 
recipient sites in Germany, the USA and 
China. I am pleased to report that the 
project is on time and on budget.
Elsewhere other key initiatives were  
undertaken which included some  
changes in the senior management team 
and recruitment to some newly created 
posts that fill capability gaps in the 
Group such as Product Management, 
Business Systems and Global Chain 
Manufacturing. We have continued  
our focus on improving existing or 
developing new business processes  
and, in particular, have rolled out new 
processes for hazard identification within 
our health and safety programme.
Overview
The past year has seen a huge amount  
of activity within the business, both 
above and below the surface. Above  
the surface, we successfully delivered  
a significant improvement in the Group’s 
underlying adjusted operating profit
1
  
against a backdrop of a small decline  
in revenue. Below the surface we 
successfully executed a large scale and 
complex project to reduce the excess 
manufacturing capacity in the Chain 
division. That project is on time to 
complete in the first quarter of the new 
financial year and will deliver significant 
recurring savings. In addition, the senior 
operational management team was 
strengthened during the year with a 
number of new key hires made to further 
support the Executive team in driving 
forward the pace of change.
Our balance sheet
Close management of our pension 
liabilities remains a key priority for the 
Board as we seek to re-build our balance 
sheet. The merger of the three UK 
defined benefit pension schemes was 
completed successfully in June 2013 with 
overall scheme membership reduced  
by 26% as 1,316 eligible members took 
the option to have their benefits paid  
out in full. Elsewhere, one of our three 
defined benefit schemes in the USA 
moved into surplus in January 2014, 
following strong performance by US 
equity assets, and we have now started 
the termination process which will fully 
de-risk this scheme for the Group. In 
South Africa, the surplus pre-tax funds  
of £1.4m were returned to the Group 
during the year.
The Group will continue to focus on 
measures to reduce its exposure to 
defined benefit pension obligations  
and is well placed to benefit from the 
anticipated rise in interest and discount 
rates over the coming years.
Chairman’s letter
“ The Group is making excellent 
progress in the first phase of our 
strategic plan. The successful 
delivery of the complex capacity 
reduction project in the Chain 
division is a major milestone 
in significantly lowering our 
breakeven point. ”
 Mark Harper
 Chairman >  Supporting the Chief Executive in developing 
the Group’s strategic plan.
>  Continued monitoring and oversight of the 
major change initiatives being executed by 
the Executive team.
>  Challenge and review the performance of 
the business as a whole.
>  Supporting the enhanced focus on health and 
safety performance and further embedding of 
risk and opportunity management throughout 
the business.
Board priorities
1  Operating profit before pension administration 
costs and exceptional items at like for like  
foreign exchange rates.
2  The annual average of each month’s ratio of 
working capital to rolling annual sales.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Renold plc 07
Strategic Report
Net debt and working capital have 
continued to be closely managed 
throughout the year. The Group took  
on the cash flow burden of the Bredbury 
closure project, which had a total 
expenditure of £7.2m, and still delivered 
net debt only £2.0m higher than at the 
start of the year. In parallel, the Group also 
managed to improve its average working 
capital ratio
2
 to 17.7% (2013: 19.0%). 
The Board and our people
In a year of significant change initiatives 
within the Group, I am grateful for the 
extra time and commitment that the 
members of the Board have made 
available to support the Executive team. 
The Board has been closely involved in 
the governance of the major projects and 
further evolution of the strategic plan.
I would also like to take this opportunity  
to place on record my heartfelt thanks  
to all of Renold’s employees. Change is 
always a challenge for any organisation 
and our staff responded positively and 
proactively in all locations. I would  
like to record my appreciation of the 
professionalism of our staff in delivering 
projects that, in some cases, ultimately  
led to a loss of employment. Their 
continued commitment is critical to  
our future success.
growth towards the end of the new 
financial year. The foundations we put 
in place during the turnaround phase of 
the strategic plan will be key enablers for 
robust and sustainable growth in the future, 
whether organic or through acquisition.
Renold enjoys a hard earned global 
reputation for high quality products  
and engineering. Our customers have 
demanding application requirements 
which we serve via a wide range of 
bespoke and high quality standard 
products. We remain well placed to 
leverage these key strengths with 
continuous improvement in business 
processes and disciplines that should 
deliver steady annual increases in earnings 
and shareholder value in future years.
Mark Harper
Chairman
Dividend
The Group has significant opportunities 
for investment in new capital equipment 
that will materially enhance our 
performance and support the delivery 
of our strategic objectives. In the current 
year the Board has therefore decided not 
to recommend the payment of a dividend 
but this will remain under review as 
performance continues to improve.
Outlook
The difficult conditions in some of  
our markets has moderated somewhat 
over the course of the year with some 
markets showing signs of modest growth. 
Overall, the external picture remains 
subdued. Hence our focus remains on 
internal improvement. Self-help remains 
our watch word as we aim to create  
and embed a continuous improvement 
philosophy in all aspects of our business, 
whether front line sales and service, 
manufacturing or support functions.  
We are challenging all of our people to 
make their activities more productive 
and more efficient.
While we currently remain firmly focused 
on the turnaround phase of our strategic 
plan, the Executive team is starting to 
turn its attention to the next phase which 
we anticipate will begin to deliver organic 
