 02 At a glance Renold plc Annual report and accounts 2008
17 %
Rest of World 
32%
Rest of Europe
33%
Americas
12%
United Kingdom
Sales – Geographical
> Europe 44%
> Americas 33%
> China 6%
> Rest of World 17%
At a glance
Renold plc is an international engineering group ,
producing a wide range of precision engineering
products and application solutions, operating 
in nineteen countries worldwide. The principal
activities of the Group are the manufacture and 
sale of industrial chains and related power
transmission products.
> Basic industries – mining, oil, cement, steel
> Construction – off road vehicles, lumber
> Infrastructure – waste water plants, escalators, underground systems, power generation
> Food – palm oil, confectionery , beverages
> Manufacturing – OEMs, printing
> T ransport – shipping, freight handling, aerospace
>Leisure – theme parks
Operating in diverse sectors
6%
China
Turnover analysis – Continuing operations
8536_Renold AR 2008 Frt_TP:Layout 1  25/6/08  17:04  Page 2 At a glance 03 Renold plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Operations by product
Renold manufacture a chain for
every imaginable application.
Heavy duty , high precision,
indoor or outdoor , clean or
contaminated, high or low
temperature environments,
these are all in a days work. 
The vast range of roller chains means that
whatever the requirement there is a Renold
solution. Our premier brand, Renold Synergy ,
offers unbeatable wear and fatigue
performance whilst the all purpose range of
standard chain provides affordable reliability .
Continuous research, development,
innovation and ingenuity has led to the
production of more specialised solutions such
as Hydro-Service with its superior corrosion
resistant coating and the Syno range which
sets a new benchmark for chains requiring
little or no lubrication. In addition to a broad
range of chains involving different materials
and platings, there is also a comprehensive
range of attachment chains.
Conveying applications including theme park
rides, water treatment plants, cement mills,
agricultural machinery , mining, and sugar
production all rely on high specification
materials and treatment processes used in
Renold conveyor chains. Lifting chain from
Renold also features on 1 in 3 fork lift trucks
produced worldwide.
Behind every conceivable industry Renold is
working hard at delivering performance and
increasing productivity .
R enold
Chain
Renold Couplings offers the 
widest range of coupling
solutions in the world. Products
ranging from sprag clutches to
fluid couplings are all designed
and manufactured to the 
very highest of international
standards.
Custom gear spindles and gear couplings 
are supplied to the primary metals industry ,
with innovations such as circulating oil
lubrication, roll end piloting, and compound
tooth curvature keeping Renold at the
forefront of the market.
The rubber in compression design of
torsionally flexible couplings remains a great
success in the diesel engine market, with 
Hi- T ec Couplings serving demanding
applications from steel making to mining 
and power generation.
A key to the success of the couplings business 
is its ability to be innovative and harness this
to high levels of technical excellence and
reliability . Renold Couplings supplies some
very famous names in key industries and
many of these customers are very long
standing clients. 
By way of example, this part of the Company 
has supplied couplings to the large diesel 
marine market for some years. These are 
used in a ship’ s propulsion system and must
be utterly reliable because if , for instance, 
a tanker carrying crude oil loses its propulsion 
it can rapidly become not only a safety hazard
but also an environmental disaster .
R enold
C ouplings
Renold Gears, also at the
leading edge of technology 
in the power transmission
industry , are world renowned
for their innovative products. 
A comprehensive range of right
angle gear units offer ultimate
versatility and durability , 
with robust construction for
arduous applications. 
The SMXtra range of shaft mounted helical 
gear units with the unique Renold quick
release bush enables simple installation,
whilst other gear hydrostatic variable speed
drive units have a proven reliability in
hazardous environments, with high speed
holding accuracies. 
Renold is an influential innovator providing
bespoke gear solutions across the globe on
escalators, lifts, in power generation, security 
and steel, and offering unique design and
manufacturing capability . 
It is also worth mentioning that Renold 
Gears manufactures not only small units but 
also very large gearboxes that can weigh well 
over ten tonnes and be taller than an average
human being. They often have to operate 
in extreme conditions and total reliability
is essential. 
This part of the Company has earned itself 
a very good reputation for finding new
solutions when refurbishing or upgrading
gearboxes and it prides itself on its standards
of after sales service. 
R enold
Gears
8536_Renold AR 2008 Frt_TP:Layout 1  25/6/08  17:04  Page 3
