 The establishment of Ashley House Properties Ltd
in September 2004 as a separate company but with
its shares stapled to those of Ashley House plc 
was a significant step. Now shareholders in both
companies have an interest in an earnings driven
company in Ashley House plc and an asset based
company in Ashley House Properties Ltd. Ashley
House Properties Ltd’s annual report is enclosed
with this report so its initial progress is detailed
there separately.
Outlook and move to AIM
The fundraising relating to Ashley House Properties
Ltd’s acquisition of Medical Properties Ltd has
resulted in many new shareholders joining the
register of both companies and I welcome you all 
at a time when Ashley House is moving forward
well and has, we believe, a bright future. It is the
board’s intention to seek an AIM introduction for 
the company’s shares in the next 12 months and 
we shall communicate further with shareholders
once the specifics are clarified in this respect.
Ashley House is better positioned now in terms of
its balance sheet, pipeline of business and the team
to deliver than at any time in the last few years. I
would like to thank all the staff for their hard work,
support and commitment since it has been a team
effort in turning the business round.
David Burton CBE
Chairman
29 July 2005
Results & financial
The year to 30 April 2005 has been a progressive
one for Ashley House plc. Results show a return to
profitability with £716,000 post tax profit achieved
(2004: £466,000 loss) on turnover up 37% to £12.6
million (2004: £9.2 million). Earnings per share were
5.7p (2004: loss per share of 4.07p). At this time the
board does not intend to pay a dividend, but this
will be reviewed with a view to returning to
payment of dividends when appropriate.
These profits and the conversion of £925,000
convertible loan into equity in April 2005, have
transformed the balance sheet to a net assets
position of £2.5 million (April 2004: £781,000) 
with gearing reduced to 38% (2004: 250%). 
The business and Ashley House Properties
It should be noted that Ashley House plc does not
own the property assets it is involved in designing
and building, so whilst the strengthening of the
balance sheet is welcome and important, the value
of this business lies in its ability to generate
consistent and increasing profits. Income is mainly
derived from designing and building Primary Care
infrastructure for the NHS.
Other income streams from related fields such as 
the supply of mobile temporary accommodation and
exploiting opportunities represented by pharmacies
are being developed but with a clear focus in
relation to the business’ core market and skills.
Property and asset management income should be
materially higher in years to come given the close
relationship with Ashley House Properties Ltd,
whose portfolio Ashley House plc manages. With
rapid growth in that portfolio anticipated over the
coming year from schemes currently being built,
this income stream should continue to grow in line.
Ashley House plc 
Chairman’ s
statement
Ashley House is better
positioned now in terms 
of its balance sheet, pipeline 
of business and the team to
deliver than at any time in 
the last few years.
04
Ashley House plc
Report and accounts 2005
Ashley House plc
Report and accounts 2005
05
on site
with planning consent
planning application
submitted
Stowmarket
From concept to model through
construction to completed building
– a true ‘one stop shop’ 1. Brighton
Stunning mixed development
including two GP practices 
2. Wantage
Two large GP Practices, PCT
Services, Dentist, Pharmacy 
and Optician with scope for 
major expansion
3. Southfields
Innovative design to provide 
a five GP Surgery and Pharmacy
maximising the potential of this
constrained brownfield site
06
Ashley House plc
Report and accounts 2005
Ashley House plc
Report and accounts 2005
07
Ashley House
Joint Chief
Executive
Officers’
statement
We look forward to the
coming year with confidence
based on the number of
schemes on site and in our
ability to manage the process.
The business
The design, project management and construction
business has seen more schemes move onto site
during the year under review, particularly in the
latter part. We are pleased to have completed
schemes in Bletchley, Braintree, Chellaston,
Edgware, Elvington, Haverhill, Oxford and 
Market Lavington during the last financial year. 
National coverage
The value of 15 years experience in over 200
schemes should not be underestimated. The
upgrading of the primary care estate has continuing
funding support from central government, and even
less political risk following the general election.
Our regional offices in Wales, the North East and 
East Anglia and the team based at head office in
the South East have proved vital in maintaining
excellent relations with various interested parties
involved in new primary care schemes including 
the doctors, the Primary Care Trusts, Planning
Authorities and other parts of local government. 
It is our team’ s experience and knowledge of such
schemes which is our greatest asset. We are
looking to strengthen our regional presence in 
the North of England where we already have a
number of actual and potential schemes.
The nature of the new schemes has also seen a
positive progression with more substantial schemes
coming through. A healthy number of schemes also
achieved planning consent and since by that stage
they all have funding agreed in principle with the
Primary Care Trusts, the outlook is positive for 
the immediate future of the business.
Margins
We have a keen eye on the margins at all times 
and are pleased that during the year in question 
we managed to maintain an acceptable level
notwithstanding the significant increase in
turnover. Anticipating continued growth in turnover
in the coming year, we are managing our growth
with close attention to the cost base, benefiting
from economies of scale as the business grows.
LIFT
Looking longer term we intend to participate in 
the next wave of NHS LIFT (Local Improvement
Finance Trust) bids in conjunction with partners. 
If we are successful, a participation in a LIFTCo
gives a long-term contract to deliver Primary Care
Schemes in a particular region. Our business
outside LIFT continues to thrive and it is clear that
LIFT will only cover certain areas of the country.
Conclusion
Sourcing new schemes is a function of excellence
of performance resulting in recommendations, in
conjunction with hard work and creative problem
solving for our end-users, namely the doctors 
and Primary Care Trusts. We look forward to the
coming year with confidence based on the number
of schemes on site and in our ability to manage 
the process.
Steve Minion and Jonathan Holmes
Joint Chief Executive Officers
29 July 2005
1 23
