 4 RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 
Results
In summary, underlying trading was broadly in line with market
expectations. Turnover from continuing operations increased
6.9% to £2,471.1 million; profit before tax increased 4.7% to
£408.5 million, before charging £11.7 million as an exceptional
loss on disposal of businesses and earnings per share, adjusted for
this exceptional loss, were up 9.8% to 16.47p, with basic earnings
per share up 5.5% to 15.83p. Operating cash flow was excellent
at £269.3 million. Net debt was £52.5 million lower than 2002 at
£1,207.9 million, notwithstanding the effect of £23.1 million of
adverse foreign exchange adjustments and £90.7 million arising
from a net outflow of funds from share buy-backs, acquisitions
and disposals.
Dividend
The board is recommending a final dividend of 4.35p per share,
giving a full year dividend of 6.10p per share, an increase of
10.3% over 2002. The board is planning for an increase in the
dividend per share in 2004 of at least 10%.
Strategy and markets
The company’s vision statement is set out on page 14 in the chief
executive’s review. The words are new but they enunciate a set of
principles which have guided Rentokil Initial for many years. The
company already occupies a leading position in the business
services sector, offering hygiene, safety and security solutions.
However, the markets we serve provide us with a wealth of
opportunities for growth. Increasing economic prosperity in most
markets around the world is bringing with it ever increasing
demands for consistent and high standards of hygiene, safety and
security. Growing public concern over these issues, fuelled by ever
increasing regulation, gives the company an opportunity 
which it fully intends to develop.
Strong distinctive branding assists in reinforcing our competitive
edge. We have the benefit of two well-established brands,
‘Rentokil’ and ‘Initial’, which we believe are symbols of 
consistent quality and so differentiate our services from those 
of our competitors.
We do not forget that our customers, wherever they may be,
have the right to expect consistent quality standards at a fair 
price from a world-leading business services company. We have
the network and reach that allows us to be the premium quality
supplier of business services in the great majority of the world’s
developed economies. With the imminent enlargement of the
European Union and the growing prosperity across Europe, we
are confident that there will be an increasing demand for higher
standards and sophistication in hygiene, safety and security 
which will provide us with many opportunities for developing 
our activities.
Equally importantly, we have a great opportunity to further
develop our position within countries in which we already
operate. We expect to achieve this by increasing our market
shares for existing services through organic growth and bolt-
on acquisitions, using our widespread experience in developing
business services across many countries.
Corporate governance and corporate social responsibility
Since I became chairman in 2002, the board has been
strengthened further by the appointments of Peter Long and 
Paul Mason in 2002 and 2003 respectively. 
2003 saw the introduction of the new Combined Code, following
a long period of review and discussion, prompted mainly by the
failure of corporate governance in companies, particularly in the
United States. The new Combined Code has introduced a number
of improvements to an already generally robust system of
governance in the UK. I am pleased to say that your board has
put in hand changes (including reorganisation of procedures and
terms of reference of board committees) to ensure compliance
with the new Code. More information on corporate governance 
is set out in the report of the directors.
We continue to make good progress in developing and
implementing practices and procedures in relation to corporate
social responsibility, which support the policies which have been
publicly adopted by the board. More information on corporate
social responsibility may be found in the report of the directors.
Chairman’s Statement
2003 has been a year of change for the company with James Wilde succeeding me as chief executive at the beginning
of the year and his subsequent restructuring of the management of the company into four service sectors. He will
comment in detail in his review on the company’s performance in 2003. RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC  5
People
On behalf of the board I would like to pay tribute to the efforts
of all our 93,000 employees. We have always considered our
people to be the cornerstone on which we rely to maintain the
high quality of service on which our reputation is based. Rentokil
Initial has always been a company in which success is recognised
and in which advancement follows achievement. To that end, we
maintain high standards of training and career opportunities.
Prospects
Organic turnover growth is the prime requirement for profitable
growth and, to that end, the company is maintaining investment
in additional sales management and sales staff, where
appropriate, and introducing further technological developments
to improve the productivity and quality of our services. The main
emphasis on development will be concentrated on Hygiene and
Security within continental Europe.
The company is aiming for good growth in turnover in 2004
although it is likely that margins will be adversely affected by
pricing levels of net new business gains, the faster growth in our
lower margin businesses and the investments referred to above. 
As a result of the initiatives already taken and those planned for
2004, the company should benefit from a strong performance in
2005 and beyond, reflecting an improving turnover growth rate,
especially in the company’s higher margin businesses.
Sir Clive Thompson
Chairman
24th March 2004
