 6 RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 
Acquisitions 
Seven bolt-on acquisitions were made in 2003 in Hygiene and
Security and, in addition, we entered both the North American 
and Belgian electronic security markets with one acquisition in
each. The total cost for the nine acquisitions (with aggregate
annualised turnover of circa £35 million) was £22.2 million; these
contributed £20.9 million to 2003 turnover and £1.3 million to
profit before tax. 
Disposals
The net loss on the previously reported sale of the Belgian 
cash-in-transit business and the recent sale of four small
businesses within Facilities Management (which together had
annualised turnover of circa £15 million) was £0.2 million. In
addition, a review of the deferred consideration due from the
disposal of businesses in 2000 has led to a charge of £11.5 million,
to give a total exceptional loss of £11.7 million.
2003 Results
In 2003, Rentokil Initial increased its turnover from continuing
operations by 6.9% to £2,471.1 million, and by 4.8% at constant
2003 average exchange rates. Profit before tax and before the
£11.7 million exceptional loss on disposal of businesses increased
by 4.7% to £408.5 million, and by 0.9% at constant 2003 average
exchange rates. Earnings per share, adjusted for the exceptional
loss, increased 9.8% to 16.47p with basic earnings per share up
5.5% to 15.83p. 
Profit before tax, after £11.7 million loss on the disposal of
businesses, increased by 1.7% to £396.8 million and reduced by
2.0% at constant 2003 average exchange rates. Operating cash
flow was excellent at £269.3 million, up 10.8% on 2002.
Segmentally, there were strong performances in Security and
Parcels Delivery. 
The sector performances are described on pages 8 to 13 and the
geographic performance is summarised on page 7. These refer 
to continuing operations and are at constant 2003 average
exchange rates.
Management
With the company having operations in more than 40 countries,
employees benefit from the company’s philosophy of developing
the skills of management through experience in several different
services. Today this experience is a pre-requisite for promotion to
senior levels of management. This philosophy has created an
environment in which our managers can be moved effectively
between the company’s businesses around the world, broadening
their skills and reinforcing the Rentokil Initial culture.
The company executive board comprises myself, the finance
director, the four sector managing directors and the company
secretary. Each sector managing director is supported by a 
sector finance director and each business is run by a dedicated
management team. Central services are provided for finance,
legal, corporate affairs, management development, research 
and development, acquisitions and procurement.
I am pleased to report on the results for 2003, my first year as chief executive. The new sector structure which I put 
in place at the start of the year is now fully established and is providing the platform for a more customer-facing
approach to sales and service delivery.
Chief Executive’s Review
Business Stream Analysis
Turnover £2,471.1m
Hygiene 39.8%
Security 23.6%
Facilities Management 28.0%
Parcels Delivery 8.6%
Operating Profits £455.8m
Hygiene 63.1%
Security 12.7%
Facilities Management 17.4%
Parcels Delivery 6.8% RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC  7
Turnover £2,471.1m
UK 48.8%
Continental Europe 32.6%
North America 13.1%
Asia Pacific & Africa  5.5%
Operating Profits £455.8m
UK 48.2%
Continental Europe 37.5%
North America 3.7%
Asia Pacific & Africa  10.6%
Europe
Austria
Belgium
Czech Republic
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Italy
North America
Bahamas
Barbados
Canada
Guyana
Jamaica
Martinique
Trinidad
USA
Asia Pacific and Africa
Australia
Fiji
Hong Kong
Indonesia
Japan
Kenya
Malaysia
New Zealand
Philippines
Geographic Analysis UK turnover grew by 5.7% to £1,205.4 million although operating
profit fell by 2.6% to £219.5 million. Total Hygiene turnover 
was down by 2.2% at £251.9 million, Security up by 3.4% to 
£269.3 million, total Facilities Management up by 8.4% to 
£475.9 million, and Parcels Delivery up by 13.9% to £208.3 million.
Continental Europe turnover was up by 3.7% to £806.3 million 
with operating profit up 2.9% to £171.1 million. Total Hygiene
turnover was up by 4.1% to £592.7 million, Security up by 3.9% 
to £135.3 million, and total Facilities Management was flat at 
£78.3 million.
North America turnover was up by 4.2% to £324.7 million, whilst
operating profit reduced by 11.1% to £16.8 million. Total Hygiene
turnover was flat at £21.7 million, Security up by 16.6% to 
£179.4 million, and total Facilities Management down by 9.0% 
to £123.6 million.
Asia Pacific and Africa turnover at £134.7 million was up by 3.9% 
and operating profit up by 2.1% to £48.4 million. Total Hygiene
turnover was up by 1.1% to £116.2 million, total Facilities
Management down by 3.2% to £13.6 million, and there was an
inflation-driven performance in our Parcels Delivery business in
southern Africa.
The Netherlands
Norway
Portugal
Republic of Ireland
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
United Kingdom
Singapore
South Africa
South Korea
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
Zimbabwe Hygiene Services was up by 2.0% in turnover at £758.1 million
and down 3.6% in operating profit at £202.6 million. Continental
Europe was up 4.5% in turnover at £486.8 million, with strong
performances in France and Portugal, and good performances in
Austria and Denmark but with disappointing trading in Germany,
especially within the hospital linen services division. North
America turnover was down 4.6% at £6.0 million, whilst Asia
Pacific and Africa increased turnover by 1.8% to £83.4 million
with excellent performances in Hong Kong and Indonesia and
good performances in Malaysia and South Korea.
UK Hygiene Services turnover was down by 3.6% at £181.9 million
with, as expected, a larger reduction in operating profit from the 
lower turnover and increased cost of management, operational
and sales resource during the restructuring period. Although 
the turnaround has been slower than expected, the new
management team, which is now in place, is implementing
major initiatives, which are expected to lead to an increase in 
the annualised value of contracts towards the end of 2004.
During the course of 2003, we combined our two washroom 
sales forces into an integrated team, and we are now focusing 
on selling a complete washroom solution. We also established 
a national accounts sales team to offer the proposition to 
Chief Executive’s Review
Total Hygiene turnover grew by 2.0% to £982.5 million with operating profit down by 1.9% to £287.4 million.
Hygiene
Addressing the issues
“a total 
washroom
solution”
A well equipped and serviced washroom,
reflects positively on an organisation and 
its regard for the comfort and well-being 
of its staff and visitors alike. Initial’s aim is 
to provide services which keep washrooms
looking good and users healthy by
minimising the risk of exposure to the
bacteria which are present in all such
environments.
large clients who have many sites across the UK. This new sales
effort was supported by the launch in September of an updated
washroom products range, bringing a fresher, standardised look.
Pest Control turnover was up by 1.8% at £224.4 million and
operating profit up by 2.5% at £84.8 million. UK turnover was up
1.7% at £70.0 million and continental Europe was up by 2.5% at
£106.0 million with encouraging performances in most countries.
Asia Pacific and Africa turnover reduced by 0.6% to £32.8 million
whilst North America turnover was up by 1.8% at £15.6 million.
During the year, Hygiene won several important contracts. 
UK Hygiene Services was appointed by the NHS Logistics
Authority to manage and supply all of its uniform requirements
nationally for the next three years. This exclusive deal will see us
supply garments to 1,124 wearers. In the US, Pest Control won
significant contracts during the year with Rite – Aid Drug stores,
Saddle Creek Corporation and the US Naval Academy in Annapolis.
In Asia, Baxter Singapore named Pest Control its Supplier of the
Year and presented it with a long service award to mark 20 years
of excellent partnership. Our focus on managing health and
safety was recognised by the Royal Society for the Prevention 
of Accidents in the UK, with Gold Awards going to Textile
Services and Pest Control.  RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC   9
“a focus on 
managing health
and safety”
Initial Textile Services have, to date, supplied
23,000 bespoke garments for Kwik Fit to 4,000
wearers in 350 locations.
Initial wear4work supply over 500
wearers, in three police forces, with
riot suits. These are manufactured in
flame retardant, petrol repellent
kermal viscose fabric and designed
specifically to protect front line
officers, when doing their job in
dangerous situations.
Research indicates that the most
important requirements of washroom
facilities are cleanliness and a fresh,
pleasant atmosphere. An unpleasant
odour rightly gives the impression of
an unhygienic washroom.
The company’s in-house development
team has designed a new airfresh
system. It gives effective and
consistent perfume levels, is
environmentally friendly through 
its use of solar energy and can
recognise usage patterns.
Rentokil Pest Control’s responsible
approach to product safety and
environmental management has
resulted in the development of the
RADAR mouse control unit. Using
patented technology to trap a mouse,
the unit humanely despatches it with
carbon dioxide, then signals that it
needs servicing. RADAR offers
customers a replacement of traditional 
anti-coagulant baits. Chief Executive’s Review
Security turnover was up 7.2% at £584.0 million with operating profit up by 9.4% to £58.1 million, the margins
improving in both electronic and guarding. Continental Europe turnover was up 3.9% at £135.3 million, with strong
performances in Belgium and France. North America had an excellent performance with turnover up by 16.6% at
£179.4 million from a combination of strong growth in guarding contracts, additional demand for temporary services,
and a useful contribution coming from acquisitions made during the year. UK turnover was up by 3.4% at 
£269.3 million, which was a good result within a competitive market, where impending legislative changes will be, 
in the long term, to the benefit of our business.
Security
Margin improvement in electronic and guarding
“North America
had an excellent
performance”
There were many highlights within Security during 2003. Notably,
in the UK, we opened both our new communications centre in
Milton Keynes and our alarm receiving centre in Burnley (see
opposite page). We also signed a deal with American Express 
to secure its five UK sites including its European headquarters 
in Brighton. We won contracts with Volkswagen, to provide
security and fire services for the whole of its production facility 
in Belgium, and with AXA, for the monitoring of alarms at all 
of its branches throughout the country. In the USA, we won a 
three-year contract with Southwestern Bell Communications,
worth $5m in annual contract value, to provide security services
at 37 locations in five states. Finally, our business 
in the UK was awarded two medals by the National Security
Inspectorate under its Gold scheme; one for Quality Management
under ISO9001:2000 and for compliance with BS7499, BS7858 
and BS7984, and the other for health and safety at work in
compliance with UK health and safety legislation and with
OHSAS 18001/1999. 
It is increasingly important to business and
the community that there is a safe and
secure environment. Our role in providing
that safety and security is constantly
evolving, as we continue to invest both in
our people and our systems in the pursuit of
excellence. RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC  11
Our new alarm receiving centre monitors 100,000 sites
across the UK, day and night, using software developed 
by our own specialists. 
With a team of over 100 staff, we operate the service
around the clock, 365 days a year. Staff at the centre can
control CCTV cameras, listen to live audio from on-site
microphones and monitor fire and intruder alarms using
high speed technologies.
Initial’s customers can use a secure internet connection 
to log on to the network to view and report on alarm
management data for their own sites around the UK.
Visual surveillance is now at the heart of security
solutions as personal and property security become
increasingly important.
“a good UK result 
within a competitive 
market” Chief Executive’s Review
Facilities Management
Co-ordinating multi-service contracts
With the increasing need 
for delegates and trainers 
to keep in touch with their
offices when off-site, Initial
Style Conferences has invested in enhanced IT
communications solutions. Following the successful
introduction of internet cafés, Initial has ensured that
guests have high-speed access to the internet or their
own companies’ networks.
Indoor plant specialist, UK Rentokil Tropical
Plants, was successful at this summer’s most
celebrated horticultural shows picking up
three Royal Horticultural Awards; two 
Gold Medals and one Silver Gilt.
The company’s exotic display of palms from
across the world secured the Gold Medals at the Hampton Court Flower Show 
and the BBC Gardeners World and the Silver Gilt at the Chelsea Flower Show.
Initial Retail Cleaning provides cleaning services on the 
high street and in shopping centres to many of the 
biggest names in retailing.
New methods of operation include the introduction of
daytime cleaning. Through close involvement with
manufacturers, special equipment is developed, including
unmanned robotic cleaning machines for large floor areas. 
Total Facilities Management turnover grew by 3.6% to £691.4 million, although operating profit reduced by 
5.8% to £79.4 million.
Catering Services in the UK, was awarded a five-year contract,
potentially worth £12.5 million, by BNFL to provide catering
services to its plant in Sellafield, England. Tropical Plants scooped a
two-year contract to look after over 1,000 varieties of exotic plants
at Manchester Airport, in the UK. UK Tropical Plants also did well
on the awards front, picking up the Gold Medals at Hampton
Court Flower Show and BBC Gardeners World and the Silver Gilt at
the Chelsea Flower Show. In health and safety management, the
Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents gave Gold Awards to
Management Services, Hospital
Services, Cleaning and Environmental
Services.
Facilities Management Services turnover grew by 4.5% to 
£493.0 million, with operating profit reduced by 4.7% to 
£35.2 million. The UK had good growth in turnover but 
operating profit showed a small decline due to lower margins 
on the net new business wins. A poor performance in North
America, including the loss of some large cleaning contracts,
adversely impacted both turnover and operating profit.
Tropical Plants turnover fell by 4.4% to £112.6 million and
operating profit by 13.6% to £17.8 million, with the level of
seasonal activities contributing less than expected. North America
turnover was down by 5.3% at £61.6 million and Continental
Europe down by 1.5% at £29.2 million. UK turnover fell by 6.5%
to £12.2 million. Asia Pacific and Africa turnover was down by
4.9% at £9.6 million.
Conferencing turnover grew by 10.6% to £85.8 million, largely 
as a result of additional capacity, with operating profit down by
1.5% to £26.4 million, with the profitability improving in the
second half of the year as the new centres began to trade
profitably and customer demand in the peak periods improved.
Within Conferencing, 2003 saw the opening of two new
conferencing sites at Greenwich and Crewe, bringing the total
number of centres in the UK to 28. New business wins for
Cleaning included a seven-year contract to clean Terminal 3 at
Heathrow Airport, worth in excess of £20 million over the
contract term, and a six-year contract to clean Stansted Airport,
worth more than £10 million over the life of the contract. RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC  13
Parcels Delivery in the UK again increased its
market share during 2003. Developments in
client information access helped to win major
new business in a competitive market and
achieve growth from existing customers.
Among the successes was the appointment of
Parcels Delivery to deliver consignments of
hardware and software from Computer 2000,
a large IT distributor. As part of the service to
Computer 2000, Parcels Delivery has installed
its weighing and labelling technology at the
client’s Lutterworth distribution centre and
implemented an integrated sorting system. 
Parcels Delivery turnover was up by 16.2% at £213.2 million with operating profit at £30.9 million up by 11.6%.
UK turnover grew by 13.9% to £208.3 million with a 5.4% increase in operating profit, the margin impacted by the
higher proportion of non-premium next day consignments.
Parcels Delivery
Increasing market share in the UK
Initial City Link offers either early morning
timed deliveries, or any time next day.
Initial City Link has over
2,500 vehicles operating
from over 70 service centres
nationwide in the UK. 
“constantly 
enhancing our 
network” 14 RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 
The company’s new vision, which I announced at the time of the
2003 interim results, is:
To be the international business services company, paramount 
in providing hygiene, safety and security solutions in all our 
geographic markets, with the strengths and experience of a 
multi-national company, whilst retaining the agility and 
characteristics of a local company.
The Rentokil Initial culture combines a strong sales and
marketing orientation, the provision of high quality service and
rigorous control of costs. This culture is the foundation of the
company’s development into one of the world’s largest business
services companies which offers a comprehensive range of
services to industry and commerce.
I firmly believe that we are well positioned to develop our
services, benefiting from our unified culture, focus on research
and development and commitment to the customer. As a
company, we work closely with the buyers and end users of 
our services, and seek to become more integrated into our
customers’ operations. 
In practical terms, the provision of hygiene, safety and security
solutions involves looking after people – employees and visitors –
in the workplace or public areas. From our point of view, it is
about monitoring, managing the environment, assets and people.
The aim is to accelerate growth particularly in Hygiene and Security,
with the main thrust being in continental Europe. We will continue
to develop all our services in their existing geographic areas.
Rentokil Initial has a good base in Europe, but the bias is
currently towards the UK where we generate 49% of turnover, as
against 32% in continental Europe. The population in continental
Europe is six times greater than the UK. The markets in
continental Europe are fragmented and European Union
legislation is driving higher standards of hygiene and security. As
a consequence, there is a good opportunity to replicate the
density and coverage of our UK operations. This will be achieved
through a mix of organic growth and acquisitions. Under our
new sector structure, we are heightening our emphasis on
finding and making more bolt-on and stand-alone acquisitions,
Chief Executive’s Review
especially in Hygiene and Security. Line management within the
continental European businesses have been charged with
identifying suitable acquisition opportunities.
In time, we will also see the development of a pan-European
business for our services, assisted by the progressive lowering of
barriers to trade within the European Union and the benefits of
our new structure. This will create the opportunity to provide
services in many cases on a cross-border basis, taking advantage
of improved route efficiencies and containment of overhead costs. 
Vision RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC  15
I believe that organic turnover growth is the prime requirement
for profitable growth. We will therefore invest in additional sales
management and sales staff where appropriate and continue
technological developments to improve the productivity and
quality of our service delivery. Recruitment of people for future
management positions and company-wide training will remain
key areas of focus.
We will continue the development of our four markets, Hygiene,
Security, Facilities Management and Parcels Delivery. The main
emphasis will be concentrated on Hygiene and Security within
continental Europe, where there is a good opportunity to
replicate the density and coverage of our UK operations.
In the past year, the restructuring and ongoing initiatives have
been aimed at improving organic growth rates within an
increasingly price-competitive environment.
Progress in 2003 has been slower than expected, especially in our
higher margin businesses, so that, in 2004, whilst we aim for
good growth in turnover, margins are likely to be impacted by
the pricing levels of net new business gains, the faster growth in
our lower margin businesses and the investments outlined above.  
Bolt-on and stand-alone acquisitions will be targeted to
supplement our organic growth, financed by the generation 
of strong cash flow.
I firmly believe that Rentokil Initial is now much stronger and
better positioned such that the initiatives already taken, and
those planned for 2004, should lead to a strong performance in
2005 and beyond with an improving turnover growth rate,
especially in our higher margin businesses.
Prospects
James C F Wilde
Chief Executive
24th March 2004
