 I am proud to report Research Now’s maiden results as a public company, following our Admission to AIM in August
2005. Sales and profits for the year ended 31 October 2005 both exceeded expectations at the time of our
flotation. Sales of £3.6m were more than 500% of the prior year and profit before tax of £0.5m was ten times the
equivalent performance in the 2004 financial year.
During the year, the Company established itself as one of the leading players in the online fieldwork and panel
market in Europe and expanded into new markets in Australia and America as a result of client demand. The
Company also significantly broadened its client base during the period and I am particularly pleased to note that
our sales were derived from a diversified range of more than 100 different clients in many industry sectors and
that much of the Group’s revenue came from repeat business.
The Group’s flotation on the AIM market in August last year proved to be very successful. The float was more than
twice subscribed, attracting an impressive register of institutional investors and successfully raising £9.2m,
substantially more than had initially been sought, of which £2.5m (gross of expenses) was raised for the Company
and the balance used to provide an exit for our angel investors.
I am delighted that Richard Dale agreed to join the board on the Group’s admission to AIM as a non-executive
director. Richard has a vast amount of experience in both the City and in the media industry, which will prove
invaluable in the future development of the business.
The market for the online collection of survey data or fieldwork is growing rapidly. To a large extent this growth
is as a result of an ongoing shift away from traditional ‘face to face’ or telephone interviews, to the use of online
panels of respondents. The collection of survey data online is not only faster and provides more accurate results
but is also far cheaper. In the US, the market for online fieldwork has grown by 30% p.a. over the last five years
and now accounts for 29% of the total fieldwork market (2000: 9%). In Europe, the online market lags that of the
US at only 4% of the total market but is showing similarly rapid growth patterns to that seen in the US over the
last five years.
I would like to take this opportunity of thanking all those who have contributed to the success of the Company.
Our clients, suppliers, advisors and investors have all been key to getting us to where we are today but I must
single out for special mention our people. It is tempting to portray an online business as being about efficiency
and seamless processes and, whilst this is true, quality and client service is at the heart of our business model. I
would therefore like to thank all our employees for their outstanding efforts during the last year.
Trading in the new financial year to date has continued to be excellent and we look forward to the future with
great confidence and excitement. We believe the market for online fieldwork in Europe is only just emerging and
we see many opportunities to continue our successful growth story.
Geoff Westmore
Chairman
23 January 2006
2
Chairman’s Statement
