 Chief Executive Officer’ s statement
Business review
T ogether with taking major corporate and
financial steps forward as described in the
Chairman’ s statement, Ashley House has made
strong operating progress during the past year. 
I shall set out below the achievements and
outlook for the company’ s five activities.
Traditional primary care infrastructure
The design and project management of 
primary care infrastructure construction remains
our core business and has contributed the lion’ s
share of the turnover and profits for the year. 
We have had a very positive year as 10 projects
were completed in Birmingham, Bolsover , Brighton,
Colchester , Danby , Lowestoft, Newcastle-upon-T yne,
Scarborough, Shipton-under-Wychwood 
and Wokingham.
The scheme at Byker in Newcastle 
(see facing page) is important to highlight as it
delivered the vision of an integrated multi-use
primary care centre likely to be at the forefront 
of the Government’ s efforts to change and
improve healthcare delivery. At 4,600m
2
it
incorporates two GP practices, a dentist and
dental training unit, an urgent care centre that
could provide 24 hour walk-in care, a resource
centre, physiotherapy, pain management, 
mental health services, and a privately operated
pharmacy and optician. Part owned by our
associated property investment company, 
AH Medical Properties plc (AHMP), and part 
PCT owned, Newcastle has throughout been a
successful collaboration working with the PCT
focusing on local health needs and the provision
of a long-term sustainable solution.
The current pipeline for the year to 
30 April 2008 remains strong and we have
numerous new schemes on site and due 
on site in the coming months.
08 Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2007
“The current pipeline for the 
year to 30 April 2008 remains
strong and we have numerous
new schemes on site and due 
on site in the coming months.”  “The new Molineux Street Health
Centre provides a real boost to
patient care in the area. Ashley
House and the project team have
worked tremendously hard to
deliver this innovative building
and we are delighted with the
results that this partnership has
brought to date.”
Chris Reed
Chief Executive, Newcastle PCT
Molineux Street, Byker, 
Newcastle-upon-T yne
Newcastle: Innovative solution 
delivers inner-city ‘one-stop-shop’
The brief
Ashley House was asked to rehouse 
two forward-thinking local GP practices 
who wanted to be at the heart of the 
regeneration of the Shields Road area 
in Byker, Newcastle-upon-T yne. 
The PCT was also keen to co-locate 
a number of services in this city centre site 
to create a significant primary care facility.
The solution
Ashley House worked with the local
council to identify a suitable site. The PCT
responded very positively to the opportunity
and brought in the concept of including an
urgent care centre to allow patients to be
treated locally without attending A&E for
all but the most serious of problems. 
A project team was then formed with all the
occupants to develop the design for an
integrated facility . The premises have been
built to allow for flexibility in the building as
healthcare delivery for patient needs change.
The result is a hugely innovative facility , built
in a regeneration area, that will serve the
community for many years to come. 
Points of interest
The building is part owned by the PCT 
and part owned by AHMP and throughout
has been a highly successful collaboration
between Ashley House and the PCT .
Key statistics
Size 4,600m
2
Description 2 GP practices 
Consortium of local
pharmacists
PCT services
Service provision Optician
Pharmacy
Urgent care facility 
Dental surgery 
and training
Community 
mental health
Physiotherapy
Pain management
*
Case study Case study
Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2007 09 Kenmore Road Neighbourhood Resource Centre, 
Harrow, West London
NHS LIFT
*
Case study
NHS LIFT
In December 2006 Ashley House was
delighted to announce the signing of a
strategic alliance with Babcock & Brown.
As part of this agreement Ashley House
entered into agreements to design and
build a number of LIFT schemes arising
from Babcock & Brown’ s involvement as
private sector partner in 7 of the 42 LIFT
Co’ s in England. This gives Ashley House a
significant involvement in the LIFT market,
fulfilling a long-term aim. Kenmore Road,
pictured above, is an example of one 
of the LIFT projects being delivered by 
this relationship.
The project
In partnership with Brent, Harrow 
and Hillingdon LIFT Co, Ashley House 
are designing and building three
Neighbourhood Resource Centres for
Harrow Council on sites at Christchurch
Avenue, Kenmore Road (shown) and
Vaughan Road. Though all three buildings
have the same brief each centre will have
an individual design to reflect the different
character of the areas.
The proposed Neighbourhood 
Resource Centres will provide high 
quality accommodation from which
support and services are delivered to
people with learning disabilities. They 
are intended to act as a focal point for
broader community involvement and
participation in the neighbourhood,
offering valuable day support allowing
people to participate in the community.
The developments will be undertaken 
by Ashley House plc in its role as design
and build supply chain partner to the 
Brent, Harrow and Hillingdon LIFT Co.
Key statistics
Size Three buildings each 
of c.800m
2
Description Neighbourhood
Resource Centres
Service provision Social care led 
support and services
for learning disabilities
delivered from a single
community base 
10 Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2007
“NHS LIFT is a vehicle for
improving and developing
frontline primary and
community care facilities. 
It is allowing PCTs to invest 
in new premises in new
locations, not merely reproduce
existing types of service. It is
providing patients with modern
integrated health services in
high quality , fit for purpose
primary care premises.”
Department of Health website NHS LIFT
In December 2006, we announced a 
strategic alliance with Babcock & Brown 
which represented an important step in 
Ashley House participating in the NHS LIFT
programme. According to the terms of the
alliance, Ashley House’ s in-house design and
construction project management skills can be
provided to the LIFT companies where Babcock 
& Brown are the private sector partners. Working
together we can deliver more schemes with
greater efficiency thereby achieving best value 
for the NHS and its partners (see facing page). 
We have already achieved stage one
approval on four schemes, with progress being
made towards approval for a further eight
schemes whilst we are also in the early stages 
of working on an additional nine schemes. 
The relationship with Babcock & Brown is
working well and there is clearly scope for 
NHS LIFT work to become a major part 
of Ashley House’ s business.
Asset management
Ashley House has a long-term contract as asset
manager for the portfolio of properties owned by
AH Medical Properties plc (AHMP). The portfolio
has grown substantially to be approximately
£80m of completed income producing assets,
doubling in size from £41m as at 30 April 2006.
This growth has come from schemes completed
in the year by Ashley House along with the
acquisition of a portfolio of schemes previously
completed by us. 
Including those properties now under
construction, the portfolio will soon have a gross
value of approximately £100m – and not only 
has the portfolio grown but importantly, the net
asset value per share has also grown by some
50%. With its recent successful equity capital
raising of £17m, AHMP is well placed to continue
its growth, with the support of new blue-chip
institutional shareholders such as Schroders
Exempt Property Unit Trust who have taken 
a 29.6% stake. Ashley House also invested
£1.85m in AHMP shares giving us a 6.8% 
stake following the capital raising.
The exclusive arrangement between 
Ashley House and AHMP means that the
portfolio should grow as AHMP is the purchaser
of choice for Ashley House’ s future primary care
project pipeline, which should produce some
£25-30m of new assets annually. The asset
management fee earned by Ashley House is
linked to the gross value of the assets with an
out-performance fee linked to the return for 
the AHMP shareholders. We can thus expect
substantial and growing asset management
revenues in the years ahead.
Chief Executive Officer’ s statement continued
Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2007 11 Chief Executive Officer’ s statement continued
Health Parks
Our first Health Park in Scarborough is on track 
to achieve planning permission soon. The vendors,
Scarborough Rugby Club, have gained planning
consent for their new ground, which satisfies 
a key condition of our contract to acquire the
site. Our scheme will incorporate a primary care
centre, a private hospital, a nursing and care
home, and some retirement housing. Whilst
smaller than some sites being considered, this
Health Park does encapsulate the concept 
of co-locating a number of health-related
activities on one site (see facing page).
We are reviewing a number of other
opportunities and are in advanced negotiations
on a second, larger site in the South East. We
shall make the appropriate announcements as
soon as we have secured a new site and gained
planning consent for the Scarborough site. It is
our intention to bring in partners to co-own these
sites which will be capital intensive and are long
term in nature. Ashley House will provide the
design and construction project management
services to these projects as well as taking an
equity interest.
Clinical Services
Ashley House has a hard won reputation 
for working with GPs and PCT s to provide
infrastructure solutions. Accordingly, as the remit
for GPs to provide an increasingly wider range 
of devolved services gathers pace, Ashley House
Clinical Services is positioning itself as the natural
commercial partner for groups of GPs wishing 
to participate in the new opportunities.
On this basis the GPs provide the clinical
knowhow and credibility whilst Ashley House
provides the management systems, finance,
administration and infrastructure services. 
We have numerous initiatives under way 
and we have recruited an excellent team with
considerable experience of running healthcare
services in both the public and private sectors.
12 Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2007 “A £25m development that 
will generate employment 
and provide the town with 
much needed ‘state of the art’
health and care facilities.”
Scalby Road, 
Scarborough
Scalby Road:Go-ahead for 
Health Park
*
Case study
The brief
With a detailed knowledge of the local
health economy, gleaned from a number 
of schemes already undertaken in the area,
Ashley House was keen to address wider
health needs in Scarborough.
Ashley House had a site requirement for 
two GP practices and was aware of the
need for hospital space to augment the 
local NHS hospital. Demand for residential
care accommodation for the elderly is also 
strong in the area.
The Health Park scheme will integrate 
and support various types of health-related
services on a campus styled development
bringing in an investment of £25m to the
region, creating employment and providing
a flagship development including a much
needed local private hospital.
The solution
Ashley House has recently gained 
planning committee approval for 
general medical space to accommodate:
GP practices, a hospital, a care home and
sheltered housing. This is the site of the
current Scarborough Rugby Football Club, 
which is moving to an edge of town 
new stadium.
Points of interest
Ashley House worked closely with the 
local council and rugby club to realise this
important new facility for the community 
of Scarborough.
Key statistics
Size Site of 3.7 acres
GP surgery 2,000m
2
Private hospital 25 beds 
2 operating theatres
Care home 93 rooms
Sheltered housing 14 flats for the elderly
Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2007 13 14 Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2007
“After a lot of hard work by all
those involved, the completion 
of the new healthcare centre 
will now provide a fantastic
opportunity for doctors, patients
and staff to work together to
develop an integrated approach
to local health issues in stylish
and modern surroundings.”
Rosemary Adams 
Bolsover, Derbyshire Practice Manager
Bolsover 
Derbyshire
Bolsover: Innovative solutions 
*
Case study
The brief 
T o provide modern accommodation 
for a growing four partner training
practice. The new premises needed to
provide ‘fit for purpose’ accommodation
for both GPs and other clinical staff. As
well as a dispensary, the new building has
enlarged administration and patient waiting
areas, which will allow for the patient list
from a retiring GP’ s local practice to be
accommodated. Central to the successful
completion of the project were the close
working relationships established with 
NE Derbyshire PCT (as was) and 
Derbyshire County Council.
The solution
This new surgery offers patients a large
spacious facility within a comfortable 
and relaxed environment. In addition to
consulting rooms and a treatment room 
for minor surgery, the premises also include
a large health education room for classes
and meetings, plus ample parking for 
both staff and patients.
The building also brings together the
community clinical team and practice 
staff under one roof. With the addition 
of ‘state of the art’ equipment, staff can 
now offer patients a truly modern and 
all encompassing service, close to home.
Key statistics
Size 1,702m
2
Description Four partner training 
practice
PCT services
Service provision Dispensary
Minor surgery
Health education
Podiatry
Community matrons
Ante-natal care
Remedial therapy
The opening ceremony
was performed by the
Duke of Devonshire and
was attended by local
GPs, local councillors, 
the Patient Participation
Group, PCT staff and
practice staff. Chief Executive Officer’ s statement continued
Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2007 15
Key performance
Unsurprisingly after such a strong year, the
financial key performance targets have been 
met with growth in normalised earnings per
share (after excluding the one-off transaction
costs) and the strengthened balance sheet. The
key corporate targets have also been exceeded 
as a significant position in the NHS LIFT market
has been secured whilst the de-stapled Ashley
House shares were admitted to AIM and the
accompanying fundraising was oversubscribed.
The staff resource has been expanded to match
the increased workload and retention of key 
staff has been good. We are very pleased 
that Investors In People accreditation has been
recommended for approval. (Approval received 
28 June 2007).
Current trading
The new financial year has begun well with 
a number of schemes moving on site, most
notably in Brighton where having worked closely
with the planners and the PCT , our latest scheme
incorporates many carbon footprint reducing
features, without making the costs of delivering
the scheme uneconomic.
The strategic alliance with Babcock &
Brown is working well as described above and 
we have achieved stage one approval on four
schemes with many others now being worked 
on by our design team. These schemes will start
to make a financial impact in the second half 
of the new financial year and we look forward 
to expanding our work with Babcock & Brown
and their partners.
Board and future
We would like to thank all our people for their
hard work and efforts in the success we have
achieved, particularly over the past 12 months.
We would also like to pay tribute to David Burton
who, as outgoing Chairman, leaves us in a far
stronger position than when he stepped in some
years ago and we thank him for his contribution.
We are delighted that we have been able to
attract such a high calibre new Chairman in 
Sir William Wells whose combination of property
and NHS experience are ideally suited for the 
next phase of Ashley House’ s growth. 
J Holmes
Chief Executive Officer
22 June 2007
