 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
4 Strategic Report
2014 has been a year of tangible progress at Rentokil Initial. In 
February we announced the divestment of the Initial Facilities business 
and the creation of a new differentiated strategy to drive profitable 
growth. The sale of Initial Facilities has allowed us to focus on our core 
categories of pest control, hygiene and workwear. Our new strategy, 
which we presented in February, is focused on delivering medium-
term improvements in revenue and profit and a sustainable 
improvement in free cash flow, which enables us to execute and 
accelerate our acquisition plans, implement a progressive dividend 
policy and pay down debt. In addition, our strategy utilises a quadrant 
analysis to group categories and geographies into a growth potential 
and profit contribution matrix and to focus resources on delivering 
improved levels of growth and to prioritise capital allocation for 
investment and M&A. 
We have implemented our strategy at pace in 2014 and in the year 
achieved total revenue growth from ongoing operations of 3.6% 
(at CER), a 6.5% increase in ongoing adjusted profit (at CER) and a 
significant enhancement in free cash flow, which improved by £93m 
to £129m (at AER). Restructuring costs fell by £38m year on year, 
working capital outflows improved by £17m and net capex of £179m 
was £49m lower than 2013, reflecting our more focused approach to 
capital allocation and the phasing of investment at AER. With a 
significant reduction in restructuring costs and with capital expenditure 
now in line with depreciation, we anticipate achieving over £100m per 
annum in free cash flow on a sustainable basis and expect to make 
further progress towards our medium-term revenue and profit targets 
in 2015. In addition, we made 30 acquisitions during the year (of 
which 77% are in the Growth and Emerging quadrants) generating 
£66m of annualised revenue (at AER). 
We exit 2014 in a much stronger financial position than in 2013. 
Group net debt (at AER) has been reduced by £260m to £775m, 
our lowest net debt in 15 years, and our liquidity position is strong, 
comprising over £190m of funds and £270m of available undrawn 
committed facilities. Interest payments (including finance lease interest) 
were £1.7m lower than last year at £49.5m. T otal tax payments were 
£30.1m compared with £37.2m in 2013. Our pension scheme is one 
of the strongest in the FTSE 350, with an actuarial surplus in excess 
of £50m at the year end (and an accounting surplus of around 
£190m). Our strategy of focusing on core growth categories with 
leading market positions has been well received by our debt credit 
rating agency Standard & Poor’ s, resulting in a credit rating upgrade 
to BBB during the year.
While much has been achieved this year there remains more to do in 
a number of areas of our business. As we note below, North America 
had a challenging H1 but performance improved in H2 and 
performance in the Benelux was disappointing with profits down 
by £9.9m. The outlook for Europe remains mixed due to continuing 
economic weakness in certain parts. Please see further details below. 
Based on our overall performance in 2014 the Board is 
recommending a final dividend of 1.82p per share, to make a total 
of 2.59p – a 12.1% increase year on year. 
Regional performance 
In the North America region revenue grew 6.6% for the full year. 
Revenue growth was stronger in Q4 (8.4%), supported by 
acquisitions. Organic revenue growth of 1.7% for the year was held 
back by adverse weather conditions on the East and West Coasts 
during H1 but strengthened in H2 (up 3.3% in Q4). Profit rose by 
15.6%, again supported by acquisitions and by back office and 
property rationalisation delivering margin expansion of 0.9%. Further 
margin improvement opportunities exist through acquisitions, scale 
efficiencies and service productivity. 
Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive 
“  Our growth in profits this year reflects 
the benefit of more efficient businesses 
and reduced overheads and has been 
achieved despite ongoing economic 
challenges in Europe. We have 
executed our new strategy at pace 
throughout the year in order to drive 
improved revenue, profit and cash.”
John McAdam,  
Chairman
Putting our differentiated 
strategy into action
+3.6%
Total revenue growth from 
ongoing operations
1
 
+2.4%
Acquisitive revenue growth
£93m 
Improvement in free 
cash flow
3
 at £129m at AER
+1.2% 
Organic revenue
+6.5% 
Ongoing adjusted 
operating profit
2
£66m 
30 acquisitions purchased in 
year with combined annualised 
revenues of £66m at AER 
2014 financial highlights (at CER)
AER – actual exchange rates; CER – constant 2013 exchange rates 
1  ongoing revenue represents revenue with disposals removed and includes revenue from acquisitions 
2  before amortisation and impairment of intangibles (excluding computer software), restructuring 
costs and one-off items and net interest credit from pensions. Represents profits with disposals 
removed and includes profit from acquisitions 
3  cash flow before acquisitions, disposals, foreign exchange adjustments and discontinued operations
Andy Ransom
Chief Executive
John McAdam 
Chairman Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
5 Strategic Report
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Additional Information
Despite economic weakness, ongoing revenue growth in the Europe 
region was 1.7% in 2014 (2.1% in Q4). Ongoing revenue growth in 
Germany (up 2.3%), France (up 0.3%) and Latin America (managed 
out of the Europe region and up 308%), was offset by a decline in 
Benelux (down 2.0%). Profit in Europe declined by 3.7% due to the 
performance of our Benelux hygiene and workwear business which 
was impacted by the continued effect of poor service levels in 2013 
and tough economic conditions resulting in both contract terminations 
and pricing pressure. 
The outlook for our European businesses is mixed. Our German, 
Belgian and Italian businesses are experiencing more positive trading 
conditions and are expected to make good progress during the year. 
However, the outlook for our businesses in the Netherlands and 
France is more uncertain with these regions continuing to face 
challenging economic conditions and competitive markets. Overall, 
we expect profitability in our Europe region to be broadly in line with 
last year. Our strategy to protect margins in this region includes a 
focus on yield management, service productivity, customer density 
and further back office rationalisation. 
In the UK & Rest of World region, ongoing revenue rose by 5.6% 
in 2014 (8.3% in Q4), with organic growth for the year of 3.2%. 
The UK operations saw good revenue growth, aided by increased 
pest jobbing work, but margins were held back by national contract 
wins with large multi-premises set ups and the cost of integrating the 
previously loss-making Green Compliance acquisition in December 
2013. The Rest of World operations also delivered good revenue 
growth, particularly in the Middle East and the Caribbean, but this 
was offset by lower revenues in South Africa, impacted by customer 
industrial action in the mining sector and pricing pressures in this 
high inflationary market. Margin improvement in the UK is expected  
in 2015 as new contracts and acquisitions mature.
Our Asia region had another good year with ongoing revenue growing 
by 8.1% in 2014 (11.9% in Q4). Both the pest control and hygiene 
categories performed well. The emerging markets of China, India and 
Vietnam delivered combined revenue growth of 29.1%. Combined 
high-single digit revenue growth of 8.5% was delivered in our more 
established businesses in Indonesia and Malaysia. Profit grew by 
18.2% in 2014, reflecting leverage from rising revenues and back 
office rationalisation with margins higher by 1.2%. There are further 
opportunities to grow margins in the region through operational 
leverage from revenue growth and back office rationalisation.
In the Pacific region revenue increased by 0.9% for the full year (2.5% 
in Q4), reflecting growth in contract revenue across pest and hygiene 
offset by a decline in pest jobbing revenue and contract revenue in 
Ambius. Profit grew by 5.9% in 2014 supported by business 
efficiencies, cost savings and branch administration rationalisation. 
Further margin improvement opportunities will be sought through 
improved service productivity and targeted acquisitions. 
Central and divisional overheads 
Central and divisional overheads decreased by £11.4m in the year, 
beating our original target of £10m by £1.4m, reflecting the successful 
implementation of a programme which included implementation of our 
low-cost country operating model, cost reductions at head office and 
the sale of the Initial Facilities business in March 2014. 
Restructuring costs and one-off items – operating 
A more efficient organisation, exercising greater operational discipline, 
resulted in a significant reduction in restructuring and one-off operating 
items. Restructuring costs in the year amounted to £9.3m 
(2013: £47.4m) representing a reduction of over £38m on 2013. 
These consisted mainly of redundancy costs, consultancy and plant 
and office closure costs. 
One-off items in the current year netted out to £nil (2013: £4.6m). 
These costs included acquisition costs, disposal costs, impairment 
of computer software and profits or losses on the sale of continuing 
businesses and property. 
Details of restructuring costs and one-off items (operating) incurred 
in the period are set out in Note A1. 
Interest (at AER)
Net interest payable was £45.3m at actual exchange rates compared 
to £59.6m in the prior year, a decrease of £14.3m. The decrease is 
due to the refinancing of the group’ s €500m 4.625% bond which 
matured in March 2014 and lower net debt levels following the sale 
of the Initial Facilities business. The average cost of gross debt for the 
group is now less than 4%. 
Tax (at AER)
The income tax expense for the year at actual exchange rates was 
£37.1m on the reported profit before tax of £163.2m. After adjusting 
profit for the amortisation of intangible assets (excluding computer 
software), restructuring costs and one-off items and the net pension 
credit from pensions, the effective tax rate for the year was 23.5% 
(2013: 25.4% as restated). This compares with a blended rate of tax 
for the countries in which the group operates of 26% (2013: 27% as 
restated). The reduction is principally due to the benefit of tax losses 
brought forward being offset against UK profits and an increase in 
the deferred tax asset recognised on the UK tax losses. 
Net debt and cash flow (at AER)
Operating cash inflow of £209.5m at actual exchange rates for 
continuing operations was £72.4m higher than 2013 mainly due 
to reductions in restructuring costs, working capital outflows and 
capex in 2014. 
Interest payments (including finance lease interest) were £1.7m lower 
than last year at £49.5m. T otal tax payments were £30.1m compared 
with £37.2m in 2013 and the Company made pension funding 
payments of £1.0m during the year compared to £13.6m in 2013. 
Free cash inflow of £128.9m was £92.6m higher than in the prior year. 
Cash spent on acquisitions totalled £68.1m, proceeds from disposals 
totalling £256.0m including the disposal of the Initial Facilities 
business. Included in the sale were £16.7m of transferred restricted 
cash balances relating to Private Finance Initiative (PFI) contracts. 
The Company made dividend payments of £43.2m in 2014, £4.6m 
(11.9%) higher than 2013.
Free cash flow from continuing operations of £128.9m more than 
covered total investment in acquisitions (£68.1m) and dividend 
payments (£43.2m) in the year. 
Foreign exchange translation and other items reduced net debt 
by £44.0m, leaving an overall reduction in net debt of £259.8m 
and closing net debt of £775.0m.
Capital expenditure 
Gross capital expenditure from continuing operations of £191.6m was 
£42.4m lower than 2013, broadly in line with depreciation. The lower 
level of expenditure reflects more rigorous prioritisation towards capital 
investment including reduced levels of investment in restructuring 
activities and IT , as well as phasing of spend on 2014 projects.  Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
6 Strategic Report
Pensions 
At 31 December 2014 the Company’ s UK defined benefit pension 
scheme, which is closed to new members, was valued at an 
accounting surplus of £192.2m on the Company’ s balance sheet. 
The trustees value the scheme on a different basis. The most recent 
actuarial valuation showed that at 31 March 2013 the Scheme was 
98.7% funded with a deficit of £17.8m. However, based on 
movements since 31 March 2013 the Scheme was estimated to have 
a surplus in excess of £50m at 31 December 2014. It is anticipated 
that the Scheme will remain in surplus over the period of the recovery 
plan. In order to mitigate the risk that it does not, however, annual 
contributions of £3.2m per annum over the six-year period will be paid 
into a joint escrow account by the Company. The first payment was 
made in October 2014. In the event that the deficit is not cleared by 
the time of the 31 March 2019 valuation, it will be funded from the 
escrow account. The Company has recognised the pension surplus 
as an asset because the group has an unconditional right to a refund 
of the surplus at the end of the Scheme’ s life.
Acquisitions and disposals 
In line with our strategy, this year we accelerated our M&A programme 
to pursue targets in higher growth markets and in areas which add 
local density to our existing operations. In 2014 we acquired 30 
businesses in Brazil, Brunei, India, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, 
Netherlands, Singapore, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, the UK and 
US and entered new markets in The Bahamas, Chile, Colombia 
and Mozambique to exploit under-served and increasingly affluent 
markets. Combined annual revenues of these businesses prior to 
acquisition were approximately £66m (at AER). 
In pest control we acquired 23 businesses with revenues of £44m, 
17 of which are in the Emerging or Growth quadrants of our capital 
allocation approach. In hygiene we re-entered the South Korean 
washrooms market through the acquisition of a small business in 
Seoul. In plants we acquired five small bolt-ons generating annual 
revenues of approximately £2m. In December we acquired UK 
property care business Peter Cox Limited which generated revenues 
approaching £20m in its last financial year. 
Building density in the North American pest market continues to be 
a priority and during the year we expanded our geographic presence 
with seven bolt-ons in Connecticut, Indiana, Mississippi, Oregon, 
Virginia, Washington and West Virginia. 
In the Manage for Value quadrant we completed the sale of Initial 
Facilities to Interserve Plc in March for a total consideration of £250m 
and also sold the Spanish Medical and Austrian Products businesses. 
Combined annual revenues from these operations in 2013 were £547m.
T o date in 2015 we have completed three pest acquisitions in North 
America, Colombia and Australia. Buffalo Exterminating represents an 
important strategic bolt-on, giving us a market leading position in New 
York State and building density in markets in which we are already 
active, as do the acquisitions of Fumighar pest control in Colombia 
and the Neil Younger pest business in Australia. Combined annualised 
revenues prior to acquisition of the three businesses totalled £6.8m.
We monitor the integration and performance of acquired businesses 
closely and, in aggregate, profits across all acquisitions made over 
the last two years are in line with the business plans for those 
transactions. The group will continue to seek further acquisitions in 
2015 particularly within the Growth and Emerging quadrants. We 
estimate our targeted spend to be in the region of £50m but this is 
dependent on finding acquisition opportunities that meet our financial 
hurdles and resourcing abilities. 
Funding
At 31 December 2014 the group had net debt of £775m and a strong 
liquidity position, comprising over £190m of centrally held funds and 
£270m of available undrawn committed facilities. Net debt to EBITDA 
at the year end was 1.9x. 
The group has since refinanced its Revolving Credit Facility, replacing 
a £270m December 2016 maturity with a £270m facility maturing in 
January 2020. The group has two options (both at zero cost) to 
extend the maturity date to January 2022, exercisable in January 
2016 and January 2017.
The group has a £300m bond maturing in March 2016 which can be 
repaid using the group’ s cash balances and available credit facilities. 
The group will review funding requirements during 2015 to provide 
additional headroom following repayment of the bond and will provide 
an update in due course. 
The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the accounts on the basis that the group’ s strong liquidity position and 
ability to reduce operating capital expenditure or expenditure on 
bolt-on acquisitions are sufficient to meet the group’ s forecast funding 
needs, including those modelled in a downside case.
Dividend
Following a strong performance in 2014, and in anticipation of further 
progress in 2015, the Board is recommending a final dividend in 
respect of 2014 of 1.82p per share, payable to shareholders on the 
register at the close of business on 17 April 2015 to be paid on 
20 May 2015. This equates to a full year dividend of 2.59p per share, 
an increase of 12.1% compared to 2013. 
Board changes 
On 22 July 2014 the Company announced the appointment of Julie 
Southern to the Board as a Non-executive Director and Chairman of 
the Audit Committee. Julie succeeds Duncan T atton-Brown who, after 
nine years on the Board, also stood down as a Non-executive Director 
at the conclusion of the AGM on 14 May 2014. Peter Long, who 
joined the Board in 2002, stood down as a Non-executive Director on 
31 December 2014. The Board thanks Peter and Duncan for their 
significant contributions to the Company over the years and wishes 
them the very best for the future. 
Strategy 
We describe our strategy as ‘differentiated’ as each of the four different 
quadrants in which we have categorised our businesses operates 
different strategies for profitable growth. With a number of businesses 
well positioned in high growth territories such as Brazil, China and 
India, but also with businesses in the low growth and highly 
competitive European markets, we need to match the right strategy to 
each country’ s ability to grow or to protect profitability. We now match 
differentiated financial performance expectations to market opportunity.
In February 2014, as well as presenting the quadrant analysis,  
we also presented targets for revenue, profit and cash: 
• Medium-term mid-single digit revenue growth; 
• Medium-term high-single digit profit growth; and 
• Immediate significant sustainable improvement in free cash flow. 
In 2014 we have focused on putting our strategy into action:
• Our commitment to deliver an immediate improvement in free cash 
flow has been delivered, with significant reductions in restructuring 
costs and capex; 
Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive – continued Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
7 Strategic Report
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Additional Information
Core competencies 
We articulate our strategy as the right people, doing the  
right things, in the right way . This is in line with our core 
competencies of expertise delivered through our people,  
service category leadership and highly efficient lean operations.
Right people  
Our colleagues as experts
Our people are our assets and we strive to 
build motivated and engaged teams across 
the organisation. We train them to be 
‘Experts in what they do’ and to have a 
relentless focus on customers and service.
Right things 
Category leadership
We are focused on our three core 
categories of pest control, hygiene and 
workwear. Together they comprise 89%  
of group revenue, have generated 97%  
of total growth over the last three years  
and 95% of group profits.
Right way  
Lean, multi-business 
operations
Our move to an integrated country operating 
model enables our service lines to be 
combined within single country businesses 
run by one local management team. 
Operations, administrative and back office 
functions are integrated, enabled and 
underpinned by technology. 
• We have reinvested free cash flow in our M&A pipeline at  
a faster rate than the £50m per annum targeted – spending 
some £68m acquiring 30 companies – 23 in the Growth  
and Emerging quadrants; 
• Profit growth has been driven by overhead reductions and a more 
efficient organisation, despite a larger reduction in Benelux profits 
than anticipated and slower rate of growth in the second half in 
France; 
• We have delivered an £11.4m reduction in central and divisional 
overheads; 
• Restructuring costs were reduced significantly, from £47.4m in 
2013 to £9.3m (at CER) in 2014; and
• Capex levels are now in line with 2013 depreciation, a £42.4m 
reduction year on year.
The most significant execution risk to the plan is the performance 
of the European economy and we are focusing on cost saving and 
pricing initiatives in this area to maintain profits. We are also taking 
action to change the shape of the portfolio by investing in the Growth 
and Emerging quadrants and away from lower growth, lower margin 
businesses.
People 
In 2014 we have welcomed into Rentokil Initial new colleagues 
through the many good businesses we have acquired and through 
the ongoing process of improving the capability and efficiency of the 
business. We thank all our colleagues who have put in a huge effort 
over the last year to meet the needs of our customers as well as to 
contribute to new programmes designed to improve the financial and 
operational fitness of the group. Colleague participation in learning 
and development programmes during 2014 has been particularly 
impressive, with participation in over 66,000 training courses on U+, 
our online learning system. Further details of our training initiatives can 
be found on page 33 and in our 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report.
Outlook for 2015
This time last year we set out our new differentiated strategy and 
introduced medium-term targets for mid-single digit revenue growth, 
high-single digit profit growth and a significant improvement in cash 
generation. We have implemented our strategy at pace and one year 
on we have delivered ongoing revenue growth of 3.6%, ongoing 
adjusted profit growth of 6.5% and a £93m improvement in free cash 
flow. We are encouraged by our performance in 2014 and by the 
progress we are making towards these targets. 
While prospects in the majority of our key markets are good, 
conditions in parts of Europe remain challenging. Notwithstanding this, 
we are confident of making further progress in the coming year.
John McAdam Andy Ransom 
Chairman Chief Executive 
26 February 2015 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
8 Strategic Report
2014 performance
Progress against medium-term targets
No progress
Progress
Good progress
Achieved ambition
Target and key activities Progress in year one
Medium-term target: mid-single digit revenue growth 
Ongoing* revenue growth of 3.6%
    
Organic growth of 1.2% 
    
Acquired 30 companies adding £66m of revenue, mainly in Growth and Emerging quadrants 
    
Launched new digital presence in UK, Australia and North America 
    
Launched new product ranges in Hygiene and Workwear, and additional services in Pest Control 
    
Medium-term target: high-single digit profit growth 
Ongoing* operating profit growth of 6.5% 
    
£11.4m reduction in central and divisional overheads 
    
Branch administration rationalisation – good progress in France, Australia and North America
    
Profit improvement initiatives including pricing, yield management and service productivity 
    
Significant reduction in profit in Benelux business although underlying metrics improved H2 on H1 
    
 Divested lower-margin, non-core businesses – Initial Facilities, Spanish Medical and Austrian Products 
    
Medium-term target: significant improvement in sustainable cash flow 
£93m improvement in free cash flow of £129m 
    
£38m reduction in restructuring costs 
    
£42.4m reduction in capex 
    
£10.8m reduction in IT capex 
    
£1.7m reduction in interest payments to £49.5m (2013: £51.2m)
    
£260m reduction in net debt from £1,035m to £775m 
    
* ongoing revenue and profit metrics exclude the financial performance of disposed businesses but include results from acquisitions
