 Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2007 05
Results
I am delighted to have joined Ashley House 
in March 2007 and to be able to announce 
an excellent set of results for the year ended 
30 April 2007. Turnover has grown by 11% to
£25.7m (2006: £23.1m), whilst operating profit
(pre-tax and excluding exceptional items) was 
up 84% to £4.1m (2006: £2.2m). Net profit 
(post tax excluding exceptional items) was £2.8m
up 56% from £1.8m in 2006. Earnings per share
(excluding exceptional items) reached 11.4p up
from 8p in 2006. Net profit (post tax and
exceptional items) was down 26% to £1.3m
(2006: £1.8m) with earnings per share at 5.5p. 
The exceptional items amounted to 
£1.4m and were the expensed element of the
costs of joining AIM of £0.4m and a one-off 
non-cash notional charge of £1.1m relating to
the issue of the warrant which was part of the
strategic alliance with Babcock & Brown offset 
by a gain of £0.1m on disposal of the head office
building. The tax charge this year was higher as
there are no longer any tax losses available and
the exceptional items have been treated as
disallowable for prudence.
As a result the board recommends a final
dividend of 3p per share which brings the total
dividend for the year to 5p per share, a 25%
increase on the 4p paid for 2006. The dividend
will be paid on 24 August 2007 to those on 
the share register as at 3 August 2007.
The balance sheet now shows net assets 
of £11.0m (2006: £4.5m) with cash of £6.1m 
and no debt.
Chairman’ s statement
“With a sound core business 
and new related business
activities coming on stream,
Ashley House is well positioned
to continue to deliver sustained
growth in earnings and
dividends.”  Chairman’ s statement continued
06 Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2007
A year of substantial progress
T ogether with producing an excellent set 
of financial results, this year ended 30 April 2007
has seen Ashley House progress materially. The
strategic alliance with Babcock & Brown provides
the business another substantial pipeline of work
in the NHS LIFT market as well as a potential
partner in our larger schemes incorporating
Health Parks and community hospitals.
The admission to AIM and the
oversubscribed £5m fundraising in January 2007
was another landmark for the company and
marked the beginning of a new chapter. The
platform of a sound financial base now allows
the business to look forward to the many
opportunities emerging as the NHS seeks greater
private sector involvement both in the provision
of primary care infrastructure and importantly
through our growing Clinical Services division.
Looking forward
With a sound core business and new 
related business activities coming on stream,
Ashley House is well positioned to continue 
to deliver sustained growth in earnings and
dividends. This is an exciting time to become
involved with Ashley House as the business 
grows further income streams around the 
core of primary care infrastructure. 
I would like to welcome new shareholders
who joined the share register at the AIM
Admission and subsequently to Ashley House.
The CEO’ s report pays appropriate tribute to my
predecessor, David Burton, but it is a great credit
to him that I am following him into a business 
in such good health and with strong potential 
to continue its impressive growth. 
Sir William Wells
Chairman
22 June 2007
06 Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2007 Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2007 07
New surgery premises at Carden Hill,
Carden Avenue, Brighton, East Sussex 
Brighton:Delivering solutions 
in environmental design
The brief
Relocation of two local surgeries 
within one building while maintaining 
their own identity as separate practices. 
T o provide additional space for the 
provision of extended PCT services, 
such as podiatry, health education 
and community pharmacy.
The solution
Working with the local school, community,
GP practices and the PCT Ashley House
carried out an extensive site search and
came up with an innovative design on
unused land within the grounds of Carden
Primary School. This will result in a modern
facility, built in a residential area, that will
serve the community for many years to
come. It will be built to allow changes in
configuration, as service solutions to
patient needs change.
Points of interest
Energy efficient design
passive ventilation 
light tubes 
renewable energy sources
air source heat pumps
helped to meet new targets for carbon
footprints of new buildings. 
Due to the topography of the site, 
the building comprises upper ground 
and lower ground floors thus allowing 
level access to both floors. 
Key statistics
Size 1,538m
2
Description 2 GP practices
PCT services
Service provision Pharmacy
Podiatry
Health education
*
“This is the latest development 
in a carefully planned approach
to investment in local healthcare
for the residents of Brighton and
Hove. I am pleased that we have
been able to work with the 
city council and the developers
Ashley House to come up 
with this innovative solution 
to finding the right site for 
this part of the city .”
Darren Grayson
Brighton and Hove City Primary Care Trust Chief Executive
Case study
