 John McAdam 
Chairman
Dear fellow shareholder 
Strong corporate governance underpins the successful execution 
of our strategy, and helps drive growth in our business and the 
creation of shareholder value. By insisting on high standards 
of governance across the Company, we help create a stronger 
performance culture and ensure, throughout the business, better, 
quicker decision making. 
We have continued to streamline our portfolio of businesses in 
2014 under our Chief Executive, with the sale of Initial Facilities 
in March to Interserve plc, and have made substantial progress in 
executing against our new corporate strategy put in place at the 
end of 2013 and outlined in last year’s Annual Report.
As described in the Strategic Report, we believe that the clarity 
of our plan, supported by an appropriate governance framework, 
will deliver a tangible improvement in the return to shareholders.
Sale of Initial Facilities 
After the sale of City Link in 2013, the sale of Initial Facilities 
removed a non-strategic business in our Manage For Value 
quadrant from the group, and allowed the Board to focus on 
the core categories of Pest Control, Hygiene and Workwear. 
Board composition
The composition of the Board has continued to evolve in 2014. 
At the AGM in May, Duncan Tatton-Brown stepped down after 
nine years on the Board, latterly as Audit Committee Chairman. In 
July we were delighted to appoint Julie Southern to the Board as 
our new Audit Committee Chair. As mentioned in last year’s report, 
Peter Long, our Senior Independent Director, who joined the Board 
in 2002, stepped down at the end of 2014. Peter has made an 
enormous contribution to the work of the Board in his 12 years as 
a Non-executive Director and my colleagues and I on the Board 
have benefited greatly from his wise counsel during that time. Alan 
Giles has taken over the role of Senior Independent Director from 
1 January 2015, combining it with his role as our Remuneration 
Committee Chairman.
It is my responsibility to ensure that Board members have a diverse 
range of backgrounds and skills and that they all contribute to our 
decision-making. Each Board member brings his or her viewpoint 
to Board discussions and collectively, as well as individually, 
I am confident the Board demonstrates the highest standards of 
governance and integrity which is essential to ensuring that these 
standards are reflected across the group.
With the appointment of Julie Southern in July 2014, I am pleased 
to report that we now have a 25% level of female representation  
John McAdam 
Chairman 
26 February 2015
at Board level, which makes us consistent with the recommendations 
of the Davies Review. We will continue to look to enhance the 
composition and diversity of the Board over time, with a view 
to equipping the Board with the optimum range of skills for the 
business’ future development, and this will remain an important 
topic for the Board in 2015.
The Board evaluation for 2014 reconfirmed the positive outcome 
of the previous year, the ongoing improvement in ratings versus 
2013 and previous years, and confirms that the Board functions 
effectively. Some suggestions for improvements were identified 
which are set out on page 46.
Challenge
A major responsibility of the Board is to challenge the Executive team 
constructively over its execution of strategy and hold it to account 
over actions taken. During the year the Board has held meetings in 
Oslo with the team leading the business across the Nordics, with the 
leaders of the business in North America and Benelux, and with the 
digital marketing and innovation teams. One of our Non-executive 
Directors visited our Pacific business’ head office in Australia and 
spent time with its management while in the region on business. 
These engagements not only help Directors to develop a better 
understanding of the issues faced in implementing strategy but also 
provide reference points for the assessment of the management 
cadre in the organisation. We continue to ensure that the induction 
process for Directors includes time with frontline staff and detailed 
briefings on the operational businesses, as well as information on 
their responsibilities and the governance framework of the group.
Reporting and engagement
I hope that you have found the Strategic Report to shareholders 
on pages 1 to 38 a helpful explanation of our strategy and of how 
the strategy is executed through our business model. This year 
we have taken into account the guidance of the Financial Reporting 
Council (FRC) on strategic report preparation, issued in June 2014, 
the changes in the UK Corporate Governance Code, following its 
reissue in September 2014 and ongoing developments in 
remuneration reporting under the new regulations. Our remuneration 
policy, appended to the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 
61 to 68, was approved by shareholders at the AGM in May 2014 
and will not be put to the vote again until 2017.
I hope that the remainder of this report gives you a clear 
understanding of the governance process as well as how the Board 
complies with its obligations under the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2012, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules. We will continue to keep these obligations under review 
during 2015. 
If you are able to attend the AGM, I look forward to seeing you 
in May. In the meantime we are keen to engage with shareholders 
and other stakeholders and would welcome your feedback on this 
Annual Report. Please e-mail investor@rentokil-initial.com and let 
us know what you think.
Yours faithfully
 
Chairman’s Statement
43
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Additional Information
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
Corporate Governance
