 Overview
The year was one of great achievement as well as rapid and profitable growth for Research Now and I am pleased
to say our results are considerably above what was expected at the time of the Group’s IPO in August.
The float successfully raised £2.5m for the Company, providing additional funding to exploit the growth
opportunities in the market for online fieldwork. During the period, Research Now saw rapid growth on many
fronts, not least in terms of delivering many more projects to support five-fold revenue growth, but also in terms
of expanding our online panels, enhancing our IT systems and growing our team further.
The market for online fieldwork and panel services in Europe continues to expand, with the trend away from
traditional telephone and ‘face to face’ fieldwork continuing in favour of online alternatives. The collection of
survey data online is typically faster, more accurate and also more cost-effective than traditional techniques.
Results
Group turnover for the year to 31 October 2005 increased five fold to £3.6m (2004: £0.7m) and profit before tax
increased to £0.52m (2004: £0.05m). 
The Group’s strong performance was due to a combination of adding new clients and also increasing sales to
existing clients. Around 86% of Group revenue in the year was derived from custom ad-hoc projects, while the
remainder was from ongoing tracking studies.
The number of full time employees in the business increased from 11 at the start of the year to 46 by the year
end. Recruitment is a key area for the business; it is our firm belief that good people are at the heart of good
delivery and as such we have recruited excellent staff from both within the market research industry and beyond.
This has allowed us to grow rapidly while continuing to deliver high quality work to all our clients.
At the time of the float we stated that one of the areas we would focus on is developing our online consumer
panels, both in the UK and internationally, and as such we made an investment of £0.54m in this area during the
year.
Client Service
Research Now provides online fieldwork and panel services to a broad range of over 100 clients. The vast majority
of these are market research agencies, although the Group also provides fieldwork to an array of well known blue
chip and other corporate clients directly, along with a number of media and advertising agencies and consultancies.
Our largest client in the year accounted for only 10% of turnover and our breadth of clients is further illustrated
by the fact that the percentage of our turnover from large international market research agencies reduced from
43% in the first half of the financial year to 34% in the second half, while rising in absolute terms.
It is crucial to clients in the research industry that online survey data from fieldwork studies is of high quality and
delivered on time - accordingly we seek to differentiate ourselves through our quality of delivery and our online
research panels, with client retention a key indicator of our success.
During the year we continued to expand both the size and number of our branded ‘Valued Opinions’ panels and
also continued to introduce additional panel profiling, spanning specialist areas such as healthcare, in order to
increase the value and appeal of our panels to clients.
Reflecting client demand to deliver research projects across multiple countries, we launched new panels at the
beginning of the year in Germany, France, Spain and Italy, enabling us to provide a one stop shop solution for the
‘Big 5’ European economies. Later in the year, new panels were also recruited and launched to cover Austria,
Australia and the Republic of Ireland.
3
Chief Executive’s Review Our total number of panellists reached 707,000 by year end.
Although localised, each of the new panels follows the successful ‘Valued Opinions’ template, which the Group
originally pioneered in the UK. Cared for by our native language panel support teams based in London, our panels
are used solely for research purposes, with panel members earning a range of incentives designed to maintain
high response rates. Panellists are highly profiled and regularly screened in order to enable us to provide clients
with fast turnaround, accurate and dependable fieldwork.
At the beginning of the year, Research Now served UK clients from a single office in London. In line with our stated
strategy at IPO to increase returns from our existing panels by selling access to them to new clients in different
geographies, we have since opened a number of new international sales offices. In September the Group opened
a sales office in Australia, providing access to our Australian and European consumer panels to clients based in
the Asia Pacific region. In November, just after our year end, we announced the opening of our office in New York
and the appointment of a new team to drive sales of European interview data to the sizeable and relatively
developed market in the USA and Canada. More recently, in January 2006, we have announced the opening of an
office in Germany to build sales in the developing German market, capitalising on our 118,000-strong German
panel and our ability to deliver one-stop-shop international projects to German clients.
Outlook
We believe the market for online fieldwork in Europe will continue to expand rapidly, with the cost-effectiveness,
speed and quality of online data collection continuing to drive substitution of traditional fieldwork methods. 
During 2005, Research Now established itself as one of the leading players in this attractive market. In 2006 we
will maintain our focus on quality of delivery, continue investing in our online panels and continue to establish
sales channels in selected overseas markets where we are not currently active and where we believe returns will
be highest. The new financial year has begun well and we are well positioned to continue to take advantage of
the rapid growth in the online fieldwork market in 2006.
Chris Havemann
Chief Executive
23 January 2006
4
Chief Executive’s Review
