 2005 has been a testing and yet, ultimately, stimulating
year for the Claims People during which the Company 
was faced with a number of challenges. Looking back, 
I believe that whilst progress was clearly slow, the
fundamental resilience of the Company was again
demonstrated. 
Operations 
Overall, despite less than favourable Market conditions for
traditional loss adjusting, the Company achieved modest
growth. Claims People were also particularly delighted,
towards the end of the Financial Year, to cement a
strategic alliance with the Insurance Services arm of the
world class Capita Group. Under the agreement, a number
of loss adjusters transferred to Claims People and commenced work specifically in the
Liability field, an area in which the Company perceives there to be growth potential. 
The most significant new development affecting turnover during the year was the
Groups expansion of its ‘i-Team’ concept under which implant teams are provided to
clients to facilitate the maintenance of consistent service standards. This new concept
provided valuable additional revenue and it is our intention to build demand for this
service in the future. We also were pleased to extend our activities into the Creditor field
for the first time.
Industry Perspective
There seems little doubt that the current era of consolidation in the UK Insurance
industry is continuing to influence the claims management and loss adjustment arena.
Whilst the number of major sources of domestic and small commercial claims has
reduced slightly as a direct result of consolidation, the current practice of most insurers
to utilise the suppliers of goods and services for the direct satisfaction of lower value
claims, has also been a major factor in reducing the numbers of smaller claims being
referred to loss adjusters. Whilst there is evidence that this trend may have peaked,
there is, as yet, no significant indication that claims available for allocation to adjusters
are materially increasing in number. The lack of any major weather-related incidents in
the UK market was also significant in 2005. 
Chief Executive’s Report
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 4 The need for claims management companies to be innovative is thus clearly apparent
and the Group has taken steps to widen its appeal and range of activities to good
effect, as illustrated by the moves into the Liability, Creditor and consultancy fields
referred to earlier. This process of appropriate diversification will continue.
Conclusion
As mentioned in the Chairman’s statement, we are committed to enhancing our IT
capabilities and I expect us to particularly improve our field applications during 2006.
We are, as always, seeking opportunities to grow the business in a number of directions
and look forward to resuming the Groups progress in the year ahead.
BARRY WHYTE
Chief Executive
22nd March 2006
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5
