 Overall, 2004 has been a gratifying year for the Claims
People during which the Company’s progress was
undoubtedly maintained.
Operations 
The Company again experienced growth and Claims
People were particularly delighted, as reported in the
Chairman’s Statement, to add Rubicon Insurance Services
and other clients to our client base.
During the early part of 2004, we were joined by an
executive team from Concept Claims Management, which
made a valuable contribution to our resources. Later in the
year, we were also pleased to extend our Claims Analyst
operations into the “implant” consultancy arena and we hope to continue this progress
in the future.
From a pure claims perspective, the loss adjusting business benefited from a significant
increase in volumes during the late summer period and despite further consolidation in
both the insurance and broking sectors, demand for claims adjustment services
remained strong. Whilst the bulk of our business was of a volume Personal Lines nature,
we were also gratified to be instructed on a number of high-value corporate company
claims, demonstrating the breadth of expertise we possess. The winter period of
2004/2005 was also busy from an operational standpoint and as we emerge from this
period we shall be intensifying our marketing activities. 
Industry Perspective
As I commented in the 2003 Report, the claims industry has continued to experience
rapid change.  
Throughout the year, a number of “virtual insurers” emerged as increasingly powerful
forces in the market and it is to be anticipated that this trend will continue. Such
companies generally provide back-office services and represent a potentially new 
market for Claims People.
Chief Executive’s Report
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 4 The Verify motor inspection service remained well supported throughout 2004 and the
Company remains convinced that further opportunities exist for this product.
One material consequence of the changing market conditions is the scale of opportunities
for acquisition that now exist. Claims People intend to take advantage of any appropriate
opportunities during 2005 and whilst the Company will not pursue an indiscriminate
acquisition policy, careful examination of potential prospects should enable us to identify
appropriate companies that would benefit from the application of the Claims People’s
business model.  
Conclusion
Once again, we can report that solid progress is being achieved. We are continuing to
enhance our IT capabilities and the Board intends to ensure that the Company’s
competitive edge is maintained. As previously stated, we are actively seeking to explore
merger and acquisition possibilities and we are satisfied that the year ahead contains
many opportunities for Claims People.
BARRY WHYTE
Chief Executive
8 March 2005
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5
