 06 Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2008 
Chairman’ s statement
Results
I am pleased to report another year of growth for the group
with pre-tax profit up 24% to £5.1m (2007: £4.1m pre 
non-recurring items*). Earnings per share rose to 12.9p up 
13% (2007: 11.4p pre non-recurring items). As a result the
Board propose a final dividend of 3.7p (2007: 3p) per share
bringing the total for the year to 6p per share (2007: 5p), 
an annual increase of 20%.
Acquisition
Shortly after our financial year end, on 19 May 2008, 
we announced that we had agreed to acquire from 
Babcock & Brown their interests in 7 NHS LIFT companies. 
This acquisition further establishes Ashley House at the
forefront of the Primary Care Infrastructure sector. Under the
agreement, the Company is now responsible for the delivery 
of the Primary Care estate for 7 NHS LIFT companies which
include 14 Primary Care Trusts. These NHS LIFT Companies 
are in East London; Bexley Bromley & Greenwich; Brent Harrow 
& Hillingdon; Wolverhampton & Walsall; Dudley; Bristol, and
Oxford. Both Babcock & Brown and Ashley House believe that
we are best placed to provide the specialist services to the LIFT
companies due to the extensive specialist in-house experience
of the Ashley House team. Babcock & Brown remain a key
partner in the NHS LIFT process and continue to provide
financial advice and investment to the LIFT companies.
As a result of the transaction, Babcock & Brown have become 
a major shareholder in Ashley House plc holding 20% of the
issued share capital of the Company and I am delighted to
welcome Giles Frost and Cameron Cook of Babcock & Brown
onto our board as Non-Executive Directors.
Further details of the acquisition are set out in note 25 
of the accounts.
Primary and Community Care
The extension and modernisation of primary and community
care is a corner stone of the Government’ s Health Policy and, 
as a result, activity to achieve this end is ongoing. Although
there is a continuing debate as to whether this should be
achieved through the construction of polyclinics or the
enhancement /expansion of existing GP premises and
Partnering 
for success
As a result of the NHS LIFT acquisition together with
real progress in our new business areas, we look
forward to the coming years with confidence. 
community clinics, it is common ground with all the relevant
stakeholders that primary and community care must be
improved and its scope enhanced in order to provide the 
patient with a choice of appropriate care. Your company 
is well placed to provide the necessary upgrade required 
by the estate to ensure that there is a more efficient and 
higher quality of service for patients.
An integral part of the Company’ s policy is to work in close
partnership with all the relevant parties with an interest 
in delivering primary and community care. In NHS LIFT 
we work with the Primary Care Trusts, Local Authorities and
Community Health Partnerships; in traditional procurement 
we work with GPs in delivering their new facilities; in Clinical
Service management we work with groups of GPs and other
relevant providers to bid for services being out-sourced. 
It is this pragmatic and partnering approach that allows us 
to grow our presence in a changing and expanding market.
New Companies Act Articles
We are conducting a review of the articles in order to ensure
compliance with the new Companies Act and shall report 
and recommend the appropriate changes in the near future. 
In the interim we are proposing to alter the Article on potential
conflicts of interest at this AGM to ensure that there can be 
no doubt as to our continuing compliance in this respect 
with particular reference to on going relationships with 
partner organisations.
Outlook
As a result of the NHS LIFT acquisition together with real
progress in our new business areas, we look forward to the
coming years with confidence. The integrated business and
property related services we provide are in demand and we
have strong partnerships with our customers and end-users.
Whilst the economic background looks challenging, there 
is increasing activity in our markets and our strategy and 
focus should enable the business to continue its growth. 
Sir William Wells
Chairman
1 July 2008
* In to year to 30 April 2007Non-recurring items relate to transaction costs of £1.6m
and a profit on disposal of £0.1m. Case study
IPC: 
Partnering 
for success
Innovative partnership with GP
consortium, optimising primary 
care services in West Sussex
We have this year formed a strategic
partnership with Innovations in Primary
Care Ltd. (IPC), a West Sussex-based GP
consortium serving 480,000 patients. 
The partnership is designed to facilitate
delivery of a broad range of primary care
services, and equip IPC with sufficient
scale and expertise to secure NHS contracts. 
Having reviewed the market at the end 
of 2007, IPC selected Ashley House as its
strategic partner based on a shared vision
of innovation, in-depth knowledge of the
sector and its commitment to a genuine
partnership approach. 
“ We reviewed all of the key players in this market 
but none could compete with the depth of industry
knowledge, expertise and quality of Ashley House’ s
people. Ashley House quickly recognised the investment
made by GPs and their staff in establishing IPC, 
and pledged to invest a comparable level of resource 
in developing complementary services.”
Dr Tim Kimber, a board member and shareholder of IPC
Report and accounts 2008 Ashley House plc 07
Key statistics
Project status: Strategic partnership
Location: Covering the majority 
of West Sussex
Description: IPC is a limited company
owned and run by West Sussex GPs 
and their staff 
Service provision: Primary Care services
Left to right:
Dr. Bruce Allan, GP and Chairman, IPC Plus Ltd.
Jane Kimber, Regional Director, AHCS
Dr. Andy Thompson, GP and Chairman, IPC Ltd. 
Charles Mallo, Director and CEO, AHCS Ltd.
60 GP practices comprising around
300 GPs covering 480,000 patients
480,000
*
