 08 Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2008 
Chief Executive Officer’ s statement
Business review
Over the year the business has progressed well. The margin
achieved has been high due to contribution from health parks,
asset management and the additional design work carried 
out, all of which is higher margin activity. Revenue is down 
as a consequence of fewer projects on site during the year, 
as reported at the interim stage. We anticipate this trend to 
be reversed in the coming year with more projects coming on
site, where the design process was done last year. This is likely
to lead to a significant increase in revenue with lower margin
but overall profits should continue to increase.
Design and contracting
Performance has been generally strong with a significant
contribution from design work for the NHS LIFT companies 
in particular. Our traditionally procured work has been steady
with fewer projects on site but we have a strong pipeline in the
process of being delivered as evidenced by the healthy level 
of design work undertaken this year. 
We were pleased to deliver completed schemes in Beverley,
Havant, Higham Ferrers, Richmond, Syston, Stoke Poges, and
Brighton. We have also recently commenced construction of
our first 3 NHS LIFT schemes in Harrow where we are delivering
three Neighbourhood Resource Centres for Harrow Council.
We continue to steadily increase our resources to deliver 
the pipeline which is very strong over the coming 2-3 years. 
The pipeline has been considerably enhanced by the acquisition
of NHS LIFT interests, which have an identified pipeline of work
with £300m of total development cost over the next 3 years. 
As the main private sector partner now in 7 NHS LIFT companies,
we are working ever closer with the 14 PCT s involved with these
NHS LIFT companies to help deliver the enhanced Primary Care
estate that is needed to bring about the necessary reform and
change in Primary Care delivery. 
Management services
We were pleased to derive our first revenues from our Health
Park business following the successful creation of our first joint
venture with AH Medical Properties to develop the Scarborough
scheme. We are in advanced negotiations with occupiers for 
the primary care centre, treatment centre, various smaller health
facilities and a care home on the site. Further projects are under
negotiation on the South Coast and in the South Midlands.
As expected, Asset Management revenues grew well with 
the progress of AH Medical Properties plc. The portfolio has
performed well with rent reviews achieving positive uplifts, 
and c. 95% of the income paid directly or indirectly by the NHS.
Although capital values may shift, this portfolio is performing
well at the asset level and there is scope for it to continue 
its growth.
In April we announced the signing of our first Clinical Services
joint venture – a very significant endorsement of our partnering
approach. This is with the Innovations in Primary Care group
(IPC) in Worthing who comprise 60 GP practices caring for c.
480,000 patients and we are bidding with them to deliver 
a wide range of primary and community services in the area.
Long-term 
environmental
solutions
We have achieved our key performance targets 
of NHS LIFT contributing to the year’ s results,
Health Parks generating revenues, and establishing
the first Clinical Services joint venture. “ We are very proud to have been closely involved with 
this project, which reflects the future strategic clinical
direction of primary care for the 21st century.” 
Naz Khan from the surgery in Warmdene Road 
and Jonathan Halford form Carden Avenue 
A 21st Century Medical Centre:
County Oak Medical Centre, 
Carden Hill, Brighton, Sussex
Our close working relationships with 
local school and community groups have
created a state of the art, eco friendly,
healthcare centre.
Youngsters from Carden Primary School,
Brighton, didn’t have to go far to visit 
a ‘green’ building during the school’ s 
Eco Week. Several groups of pupils,
representing all school years 1-6, were
invited by Ashley House on guided 
tour of the new eco-friendly surgery. 
The new two-storey surgery for 15,000
patients of two local practices has been
designed and built to be energy efficient
and meet targets for carbon footprints 
of new buildings. Eco-friendly features
include solar panels to help provide
heating and hot water, sensor activated
lights to save electricity automatically
switch on and off, and light tubes to
bring natural daylight and ventilation 
into the centre of the building.
Key statistics
Building size: 1538 sq. metres
Project status: Completed
Location: Patcham, Brighton
Description: 6 GP practices
8 district nurses, 4 health visitors 
Service provision: Pharmacy, minor
surgery, phlebotomy, midwife,
physiotherapy, counselling, 
education rooms
*
Report and accounts 2008 Ashley House plc 09
patients served 
15,000
Case study
Brighton: 
Designing 
for long-term
environmental
solutions
