 I am pleased to be commenting on my first set of results
since being invited to join the Board of Claims People as
CEO on 1 March 2007.  
The Claims People business is simply about reducing
overall claims costs for insurers; meeting all insurers claims
requirements; providing services that others either can’t or
don’t; adding significant value to the claims process; and
exploiting every profitable niche of the claims market.
In short the strengths of the business lie in its newly
realigned management team and Board (both City and
Sector expertise), as well as factors including its
established position in an expanding market, strong
shareholder base and Blue Chip client portfolio. 
The Group also boasts some of the best technology in the adjusting market.
The Group presents growth opportunities in a number of claims management areas.
Intelligent in-sourcing as well as the more recent trend in out-sourcing, supply chain
claim provision, consultancy, recruitment and enhanced loss adjusting and loss
management products, all have significant opportunities in the vast insurance 
services market.
Operational Overview 
The Group currently comprises the loss adjusting and claims management division
(‘Claims People’); the implant claims solution (‘i-Team’); the sector-leading fatal and
serious injury accident investigation service (‘Motor Forensic’), and the unique claims-
specific recruitment agency (‘Claims People Recruitment’).
Conditions for traditional loss adjusting remained exceptionally quiet throughout 2006
within the UK, despite major incidents elsewhere in the world. Arrangements with
significant trading partners also proved somewhat disappointing as a direct consequence
of the benign local climatic conditions. However, the flat market conditions did not
prevent the Group from increasingly deploying its resources into the consultancy area
under its ‘i-Team’ branding. This service supplies ‘implant’ teams to clients in order to
facilitate the maintenance of service standards.
Due to the high standards of performance that the Group was able to deliver in
consultancy, initial contracts were extended and enlarged, thus revenues exceeded 
our preliminary expectations, offsetting the reduced loss adjusting income.
Chief Executive’s Report
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 4 Industry Perspective
The era of consolidation in the UK Insurance Industry is continuing in the claims
management and loss adjustment arena. 
The use by Insurers of the ‘supply chain’ for goods and services, to the detriment of loss
adjusters, continued during the year although niches undoubtedly remain to be filled by
innovative players. Overall, it has become increasingly clear that the employment of
adjusters by Insurers is now reserved for more significant losses where adjusters may
best demonstrate their value. Indeed, the demand for high level technical skills is
increasing. The Group has innovative products and services, which, in my opinion, allow
for growth in these conditions.
Blue Chip Client List
The Group continues to enjoy the support of a number of Blue Chip clients including
HSBC, Capita, Royal & SunAlliance and BT.
Conclusion
Finally, I would like to thank Barry Whyte for his considerable contribution as Chief
Executive and look forward to working with him as Group Managing Director, allowing
me to concentrate on the demands of my new role as Chief Executive.
From its initial foundation, Claims People has always strived to be innovative and to
bring intelligent products to the UK claims market. Now, more clearly than ever, the
Group is pressing forward with interesting new developments in both the Claims
Recruitment and Motor Sectors. The strengthened Board is also exploring a number of
other potential claims related markets in our continued process of diversification, and I
look forward in working alongside the team to grow the business to the next level. 
GEOFF SOMERVAIL
Chief Executive
31 May 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 5
