 08 Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2009
Chief Executive’s statement
Business review
This has been a year of signiﬁ cant progress for the business 
with the integration of the NHS LIFT interests acquired in June 
2008. An indication of the signiﬁ cance of this new business 
stream is that whilst our largest client to date has been AH 
Medical Properties, revenue derived from it represented only 
18% of this year’s total as against 55% last year and 72% two 
years prior. This statistic demonstrates the broader spread of 
the business since the acquisition. Selection of our consortium 
Odyssey Healthcare as an approved bidder for new LIFT 
Companies bodes well for this continued expansion of our 
revenue base.
Design & Construction
Revenues from Design & Construction increased over the 
previous year and the margin has been maintained. We have 
beneﬁ tted from falling construction costs from our sub-
contractors and been able to pass on some of this to our end 
users. Our cost driven focus aided by in-house design resource 
enables our team to drive costs hard wherever possible thereby 
helping to deliver value for money.
We were delighted to complete our ﬁ rst NHS LIFT project, one 
of 3 neighbourhood resource centres in Harrow for the Local 
Authority via the Brent Harrow and Hillingdon LIFT company. 
We will shortly be on site with 2 more NHS LIFT schemes in East 
London and Walsall. In the 3PD (third party developer) market 
we completed notable schemes in Portsmouth and Essex.
New design work made a signiﬁ cant contribution, in particular 
on NHS LIFT schemes in East London and Wolverhampton & 
Walsall LIFT areas. In Bracknell, Berkshire we are designing and 
building the Bracknell Healthspace which will accommodate a 
range of health and community services in a high rise urban 
scheme, including GP practices, community based services from 
the PCT and 2 acute NHS Trusts as well as some space for 
private sector operators. This once again demonstrates our 
ability to understand what our end users want and deliver 
appropriate affordable solutions.
At the time of our acquisition of the NHS LIFT interests in 
June 2008 we referred to a £300m NHS LIFT pipeline which 
represented projects identiﬁ ed as being required over a 3-5 year 
timeframe. We can now report that over the next 2 years alone 
the pipeline of schemes expected to contribute to our revenues 
has increased to £245m. This is a metric we intend to update in 
future reports.
Management Services
Management Services revenues grew materially during the year 
with management and development fees from the NHS LIFT 
companies making their ﬁ rst contributions. 
Asset Management revenues were slightly ahead, 
notwithstanding the fact that AH Medical Properties plc’s 
portfolio suffered a write down on its value at the half year 
in October 2008. The new assets and positive rent reviews 
achieved resulted in the portfolio performing markedly better 
than the wider commercial property market. AH Medical 
Properties remains well capitalised and able to continue 
acquiring new schemes.
Clinical Services Management made progress in winning its ﬁ rst 
Equitable Access contracts in joint ventures with GP groups. 
Our team is working with our partners to not only make these 
contracts successful but to expand the scope of the joint 
ventures from this platform and thus give the division suitable 
scale. This activity continues to support our ability to propose 
service led solutions to our clients across the whole business. 
Health Park activities have progressed with the Scarborough 
scheme nearing the construction phase and the new Bracknell 
scheme being a major new addition. With falling land prices 
and construction costs we are pursuing further schemes.
Key performance targets
We have achieved key performance targets of growing revenue 
and proﬁ t before tax, although not by as much as we had 
hoped at the start of the year. The pipeline growth is a material 
achievement as is our selection as a participant in the Express 
LIFT procurement. Following our achievement of Investor in 
People status last year we were pleased to achieve ISO 9001 
accreditation at Year End, which validates our systems as we 
expand the business.
Staff
We have expanded the team signiﬁ cantly during the year as
we deal with the increased pipeline. We have strengthened our 
management with experienced hires in the positions of Chief 
Operating Ofﬁ cer and Head of Finance, both of whom have 
settled in well. We have opened a new ofﬁ ce in Worcester 
which services our NHS LIFT interests in the Midlands. The 
headcount now stands at 80 people and the Board’s thanks 
go to all in a challenging yet ultimately progressive year.
Outlook
Current trading is on track so far in the new ﬁ nancial year 
and our teams are all focused on the year ahead.
Jonathan Holmes
Chief Executive
3 July 2009
Current trading is on track so far in the new financial year 
and our teams are all focused on the year ahead.  Report and accounts 2009 Ashley House plc 09
Based in Salisbury, the health centre is 
operated by a consortium of local GPs 
(WilcoDoc) and co-owned and managed
by Ashley House Clinical Services. It is 
open from 8am to 8pm, seven days a week, 
including Bank Holidays. The Primary 
care services being offered are available 
to everyone, whether they are registered 
with doctors in Salisbury or not. 
NHS Walk-in Centres are in existence across 
the UK, providing free services, including health 
information, advice and treatment for a range 
of illnesses and minor injuries without having 
to make an appointment. They have been 
introduced to help people with busy lifestyles 
which need access to ﬂ exible and convenient 
health services.
Case study
WilcoDoc
Wiltshire’s first 
seven-day-a-week 
health centre. 
Strategic 
partnership
The Salisbury Walk-in Centre is run by 
experienced nurses and GPs. It will not replace 
local GP or hospital services but complement 
them by providing more patients with 
convenient access to a range of treatments 
for minor illnesses and injuries. 
>  A Joint Venture covering 60,000 patients, 
in existing practices.
>  A 5 year contract to run a 3,000 patient 
Health Centre
>  34,000 walk-in patients
>  Total contract value worth £2.5m+
Key statistics
Project status: Strategic Partnership
Location: Covering South Wiltshire and 
Salisbury District
Description: Wilcodoc is a limited company 
and owned by Wiltshire GPs
Service provision: Primary Care Services
“ WilcoDoc are delighted to have 
been selected to run this exciting 
new development in healthcare 
in South Wiltshire. This is an 
opportunity to create a new service 
that makes it easier for patients to 
see a healthcare professional at 
times that are convenient to them.”
Dr Hugh Bond
Director of WilcoDoc
Dr. Hugh Bond, WilcoDoc/WilcoPlus (Chair), Jo Broom, 
Practice Manager, Salisbury Walk-in Health Centre, Jo Cullen, 
Head of Primary Care, NHS Wiltshire PCT and Charles Mallo, 
Executive Director, Ashley House Clinical Services.
The Salisbury Walk in Health Centre (SWIC) 10 Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2009
Ashley House was selected by the Board of 
NHS Berkshire East as Preferred Partners.
The HealthSpace will bring a wide range of 
services closer to home for many people, one of 
the key themes to emerge from the local public 
consultation process, known as Right Care, Right 
Place, which ﬁ nished last year.
“ This is a very important and exciting project 
both for the NHS in their delivery of their 
Right Care, Right Place policy and as a catalyst 
for the regeneration programme of Bracknell 
town centre. We are grateful and delighted 
to have been selected and look forward to 
working with the NHS and various user groups 
in achieving a ﬂ agship building and a beacon 
for health and social care provision.”
Sir William Wells
Chairman Ashley House plc
Key statistics
Project status: Design stage
Location: Bracknell, Berkshire
Health care: GP, Dentists, Diagnostic services, 
Out-patient, Urgent care, Cancer care and 
Children’s service
Wellness: Fitness gym, Therapy classes and 
Holistic medicine
Retail: Pharmacy, Cafe and Convenience store
Extra Care: Care Home, Dementia and 
Assisted Living
“ This is a real milestone in our plans 
to offer an extended range of health 
services from 21st century facilities in 
the heart of Bracknell.”
Sally Kemp
NHS Berkshire East Chairman 
Case study
Bracknell 
Healthspace
A new health facility in the 
centre of Bracknell offering 
an extended range of health 
services.
Building 
relationships 
that last
Sally Kemp, NHS Berkshire East Chairman, Jonathan 
Holmes, Chief Executive, Ashley House plc and Councillor 
Dale Birch, Executive Member for Adult Services, Health 
and Housing for Bracknell.
