 06 Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2009
Chairman’s statement
With our revenues growing from a solid pipeline of 
opportunities, we look forward to the future with confidence.
Results and dividend
I am pleased to report that the company’s ﬁ nancial 
performance showed a marked improvement in the second 
half of the year compared to the ﬁ rst half. For the full year, 
revenue increased by 20% to £23.83m (2008: £19.79m) 
and pre-tax proﬁ t increased 9% to £5.53m (2008: £5.07m). 
In June 2008 the Company acquired the NHS LIFT Company 
interests of Babcock & Brown for cash and a signiﬁ cant share 
issue which largely funded the acquisition. As a consequence 
earnings per share were down 22% at 10.01p per share
(2008: 12.93p).
Subsequently Babcock & Brown went into administration 
and this provided the Company with the opportunity of 
arranging the placing of their shares and negotiating on 
the £19m deferred consideration liability which was ﬁ nally 
settled for £1m. As a result the balance sheet reﬂ ects the 
acquisition completed in June 2008 and the beneﬁ t of settling 
the deferred consideration liability for £1m in April 2009. The 
balance sheet shows net assets of £38.7m (2008: £13.4m), 
net cash and no signiﬁ cant liabilities.
Due to the Company’s improved trading position and because 
of the signiﬁ cant reduction in the deferred consideration 
liability the Board has decided to pay a ﬁ nal dividend of 
4.0p per share (2008: 3.7p ﬁ nal, 6p total) with a scrip 
alternative. The details of the scrip dividend and approval are 
set out in a separate shareholders circular. It is the Board’s 
intention to resume our progressive dividend policy in line 
with earnings growth.
Highlights of the financial year
As a result of the acquisition of Babcock & Brown’s NHS LIFT 
Companies interests we are now the private sector partner 
in 7 NHS LIFT Companies, making Ashley House one of the 
largest NHS LIFT Company operators. Following 12 months 
experience I am pleased to report that good progress is being 
made. The pipeline of projects has grown and our partners are 
seeing directly the impact of our team’s involvement and the 
experience they bring.
Earlier in the year, largely as a result of the Company’s 
signiﬁ cant and proactive presence in the NHS LIFT programme, 
we were chosen as one of only 7 private sector organisations 
approved as partners in Express LIFT, via Odyssey Healthcare 
(our joint venture with partners Amber Infrastructure and GSL). 
This gives us the opportunity to win more NHS LIFT mandates 
and re-enforces the strategic rationale for making the 
acquisition of the 7 NHS LIFT company interests.
As previously reported we were able to take the opportunity 
presented by Babcock & Brown’s problems to rationalise 
our relationship with them by placing their shareholding with 
Invesco Perpetual, who we welcome as a signiﬁ cant new 
shareholder. We continue to work with the former Babcock 
& Brown infrastructure team in their buyout entity Amber 
Infrastructure, who are partners in Odyssey Healthcare for 
Express LIFT.
During the period we have expanded the team to deal with the 
much increased pipeline of projects and as a consequence our 
overhead has increased. The beneﬁ t of increased operational 
gearing should start to ﬂ ow through in the new ﬁ nancial year.
Our market
The requirement for upgrading and reconﬁ guring the NHS 
primary and community care estate is on-going and our 
pipeline of projects reﬂ ects this need. The continuing shift of 
services from acute to primary care facilities is a key element 
of healthcare policy and has broad cross party support.
Outlook
With interests in NHS LIFT, a major opportunity in Express LIFT 
and with a strong third party developer pipeline of new work, 
we are well positioned for the future. The recurring revenues 
from asset management continue to increase and revenues 
from our clinical services management business are starting 
to ﬂ ow.
Whilst the prospects of the economy remain uncertain we 
remain well positioned to continue the growth of the business.
Sir William Wells
Chairman
3 July 2009
A year of 
consolidation  Report and accounts 2009 Ashley House plc 07
In March 2008 the Department of Health 
approved Harrow Council’s final business 
case PFI credits. With funding assured, 
BHH LIFT Co and Ashley House worked 
closely with Harrow Council to develop 
three neighbourhood resource centres.
Brief
To provide:
> 
 
Community based centres to respond to 
the individual needs of people with learning 
difﬁ culties and their families.
> 
 
Facilities for cultural and educational activities, 
meetings and other types of gatherings.
> 
 
Flexible day support services for adults with 
severe learning disabilities. 
Solution 
Three modern facilities that each retain 
their own individual identity relative to their 
local community and meet the needs and 
requirements of all stakeholders. 
Environmental features
> 
 
Air venting systems which negate the 
need for air conditioning.
> 
 
Solar panels which contribute to the hot 
water supply.
> 
 
Sun pipes which help to reduce dependency 
on artiﬁ cial lighting.
> 
 
Sun shading to reduce uncomfortable 
levels of heat entering the building from 
direct sunlight.
“ Over the next 25 years the LIFT 
project will strive to create an easily 
accessible, patient-centred service 
that is available to all in the 
community and will create a 
pleasant and supportive working 
environment for staff.”
Mark Grinonneau 
CEO Brent, Harrow and Hillingdon LIFTCo
Long-term 
solutions
Case study
NHS LIFT Harrow
Neighbourhood Resource 
Centres (NRCs) – providing 
specialist facilities benefitting 
service users and the wider 
community.
Neighbourhood Resource 
Centres (NRCs)
The NRCs help integrate people 
who use Learning Disability 
Services into the local 
community and encourage the 
local community to participate 
in the centres’ activities.
Christchurch NRC: 
Christchurch Avenue, Wealdstone; 822.2sqm
Kenmore NRC: 
Kenmore Road, Kenton; 768.6sqm
Vaughan NRC: 
Wilson Gardens, West Harrow; 804.0sqm
In partnership with the local Health
and Social Care Community
