 >
Focused on 
our core business
Operating and financial review
Chief Executive Officer’s 
review of operations
“2006 was a very satisfactory
year for The Restaurant Group
with earnings increasing by
27% on the previous year. 
Our strategy is designed 
to deliver sustainable and
growing cash flows combined
with consistently high returns
on investment and these
results reflect that.”
Andrew Page
Chief Executive Officer
The Restaurant Group plc 
Annual Report 2006 06
This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007. 
This information in itself does not constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of section 240 Companies Act 1985. Introduction
The Restaurant Group (“TRG”) performed strongly throughout
2006 with the benefits from the strategic repositioning undertaken
during the previous year evident in all of our key performance
metrics. All of our businesses performed well, delivering a 19%
increase in adjusted profit before tax. We have also made further
good progress in terms of margin growth with a 140 basis point
increase in our operating profit margin. This improvement resulted
from, inter alia, increased trading levels, driving further economies
through scale, enhanced operating practices and other Group
initiatives to improve efficiency. 
Our core objective continues to be growth in shareholder value
and the strategy we have deployed to achieve this is to build a
business capable of delivering long-term, sustainable and growing
cashflows. Cash generation is a key area of focus for the team 
at TRG and I am delighted that we have, again, converted our
profits into cash at a very healthy rate and that both earnings 
and operating cashflow per share have grown strongly. 
Our model for generating value is straightforward and robust. 
It has five key components, as follows: 
> 1. Strong underlying like-for-like profit growth from our
existing estate through focusing on our customers and 
as a result of initiatives to secure further operational
improvements and efficiencies;
> 2. Incremental profit improvements through economies of scale; 
> 3. Clear and sustainable conversion of those growing profits 
into cash; 
> 4. A new unit rollout programme funded from those internally
generated cashflows; and
> 5. Consistently high returns from those new openings,
significantly ahead of our cost of capital, to generate 
further growth in profits and cashflow. 
This virtuous circle enables the Group to continue its growth in 
a predominantly organic and value–accretive way. The quality 
of our cashflow is a distinctive feature of TRG’s model, with 
our businesses occupying leading positions within our chosen
market segments. Since the beginning of 2006 our focus has
been on markets away from the high streets, concentrating on
edge of town, out of town, rural, semi-rural and concessions
locations. We believe that these segments have distinct barriers 
to entry, offer the opportunity for significant further growth and
enable us to generate high returns. Going forward we intend to
continue our development along these lines. 
All of the key performance metrics improved during 2006: 
> A 5% increase in like-for-like sales – the bulk of which was as 
a result of more customers using our restaurants as opposed
to price or spend increases – combined with our new openings
resulted in turnover increasing by 10%; 
> Adjusted EBITDA increasing by 11% and adjusted operating
profit increasing by 23%; and 
> Margins improved at both divisional and group levels with 
our Group operating profit margin rising by 140 basis points
to 12.5% – a very satisfactory result particularly against 
the background of a 90 basis point operating profit margin
improvement in the previous year. 
Again, the increase in profit was the product of three 
principal components – like-for-like profit increases from 
the existing estate, profitable contribution from new 
openings and further cost savings from purchasing initiatives 
and operational improvements and efficiencies. This
combination represents a healthy background to our 
continuing profitable development. 
>
>27m
increase in revenue
>
+1 0 %
We continue to see more customers
using our restaurants, both in new sites
and existing units
>
2.5m
customers served 
in 2006
children’s meals served 
in Frankie & Benny’s
The Restaurant Group plc 
Annual Report 2006 07
* Results are stated excluding non-trading items and excluding the results of Deep Pan
Pizza in the prior year comparatives. Further information is provided in note 2 of the
financial statements.
This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007. 
This information in itself does not constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of section 240 Companies Act 1985. >
Leading positions
within our chosen
market segments
Operating and financial review
Chief Executive Officer’s 
review of operations
continued
Leisure
> Total turnover: £236.3m
> Profit: £50.7m
> Operating margin: 21.5%
> Frankie & Benny’s
> 139 units
Frankie & Benny’s had an excellent year with both EBITDA 
and profit growing by more than 20%. The brand delivered 
strong growth in like-for-like sales and yet again produced 
further growth in both EBITDA and operating profit margins. 
This brand forms a key part of TRG’s future plans for growth 
and it is encouraging that we were able to open 25 new units
during 2006. Of these, 11 were conversions of former Deep 
Pan Pizza sites, nine of which are branded as “Little Frankie’s”, 
a derivative concept of Frankie & Benny’s designed to operate 
on a smaller footprint than a standard Frankie & Benny’s
restaurant. The performance of the new openings has been 
very good and it is particularly encouraging to see that the 
returns from the new Frankie & Benny’s are consistently high 
both in absolute terms and also, very importantly, in comparison
with the returns derived from earlier years’ openings. This gives 
us much confidence for the future as we look to continue our
rollout at a rate of 15-20 new Frankie & Benny’s restaurants 
per annum. Our pipeline of new sites is strong with good 
visibility on rollout to the end of the decade. 
Frankie & Benny’s 
Trafford Centre by night.
Chiquito Castleford
An extensive back bar!
The Restaurant Group plc 
Annual Report 2006 08
This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007. 
This information in itself does not constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of section 240 Companies Act 1985. > Chiquito 
> 45 units
2006 was another good year for Chiquito with the highest 
like-for-like sales and operating profit growth within the Group.
EBITDA increased by 38% and operating profit was up 44%.
Margins also improved significantly with the EBITDA margin up
90 basis points and operating profit margin up 120 basis points.
Against a background of significant profit growth and margin
enhancement in 2005 this is a terrific performance and one that
the Chiquito team are keen to build on in 2007. During the year
we opened 11 new restaurants and we are expecting to open 
5-10 new restaurants in the current year, a rate which we expect
to maintain for the next few years. Returns from the new openings
are good and this gives us confidence as we grow this brand.
We are particularly encouraged by the performance of our
restaurants co-located with Frankie & Benny’s and we will
continue to pursue dual roll-out opportunities. 
> Blubeckers 
> 22 units
2006 was the first full year of operating Blubeckers within TRG
and we are encouraged with the results. Blubeckers delivered
strong growth in like-for-like sales and delivered a very good level
of EBITDA and operating profit. During 2006 Blubeckers became
fully integrated into TRG and since June we have begun to roll
out new Blubeckers restaurants. We added five new units during
2006, one of which was a conversion of a Garfunkel’s restaurant
in Cambridge. 
We are encouraged by the performance of these new sites
where typically the build-up in trade takes longer (approximately
two to three years) than it does for our other brands. We expect
to earn good returns from these new openings and this has
encouraged us to step up the openings programme in 2007 
to 5-10 new restaurants. Blubeckers is well placed to benefit
from the trends towards increased eating out and its widespread
appeal across most socio-economic and age groups makes it
particularly attractive to much of the UK population. 
> Garfunkel’s
> 29 units
Garfunkel’s produced a very solid performance during 2006 with
operating profits up by 15%. It enjoyed strong like-for-like sales
growth and delivered significant improvements in margins with
the operating profit margin increasing by 140 basis points.
During the second half of 2006 we commenced a refreshment
and refurbishment programme within Garfunkel’s. The first site 
to undergo these changes was our restaurant at Northumberland
Avenue followed by the unit at Irving Street. The results have
been extremely pleasing with strong growth in sales and a
widening of the customer base. We are currently planning to
refresh and refurbish approximately 10 sites during 2007 and 
we anticipate that this will deliver a significant level of incremental
cashflow at each site to generate very satisfactory levels of
return on investment. In December 2006 a former Deep Pan
Pizza site on Oxford Street was converted into a Garfunkel’s 
and we are pleased with its performance since opening. 
Blubeckers, Odiham
A stunning venue loved by all.
growth in revenue in 
our Leisure division
>
+25%
The Restaurant Group plc 
Annual Report 2006 09
Garfunkel’s Northumberland Avenue
The first of the new look.
This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007. 
This information in itself does not constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of section 240 Companies Act 1985. >
Strong finances, 
great team, 
focused strategy
Operating and financial review
Chief Executive Officer’s 
review of operations
continued
Concessions
> 49 units
> Total turnover: £72.5m
> Profit: £11.1m
> Operating margin: 15.3%
Our Concessions business faced some very challenging
operating conditions for parts of 2006. The increasing focus on
airport security initiated by the Department of Transport during
the first quarter followed by further disruption during the summer
meant that our Concessions team at the major UK airports faced
some demanding conditions. Our team responded superbly to
produce a very satisfactory set of results. 
Solid like-for-like sales growth together with a contribution from 
the six new openings delivered a 21% increase in turnover, and
EBITDA and operating profit growth of 23% and 24% respectively.
It is particularly pleasing to report that both EBITDA and operating
profit margins grew, by 20 and 40 basis points respectively. 
Our six new openings included three sites at Birmingham airport
and a new unit at Victoria Station. We are pleased with the
performance of these new sites and we anticipate opening
between two and five new concessions units in 2007. We
recently announced that we have won concessions for four 
new units at the new Terminal 5 at Heathrow; building work 
will commence during 2007 and the units are scheduled to open
in March 2008. We are delighted to have secured these sites
and to be able to participate in this landmark UK airport project. 
Garfunkel’s Norwich
The Dining Terrace.
Est Bar Deli
Heathrow Terminal 4.
The Restaurant Group plc 
Annual Report 2006 10
This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007. 
This information in itself does not constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of section 240 Companies Act 1985. Non-core brands and associate
During the year losses from non-core activities increased from
£0.9m to £2.0m. This largely reflects the workout from the old
Deep Pan Pizza estate. We anticipate a significant reduction in
these losses going forward.
Losses from our investment in Living Ventures amounted to 
£0.9m and the returns from this investment have fallen below 
our expectations at the time the investment was made in March
2005. However, we are encouraged that the actions initiated 
by their management during 2006 are now starting to yield 
some benefits and we are looking for further improvement 
during 2007. Nevertheless, in the light of the recent poor
performance of this investment we have carried out an
assessment of its balance sheet carrying value and concluded 
that it is appropriate to make an impairment provision for the
amount of £9.5m. Further details are contained in the Group
Finance Director’s review.
Corporate
During 2006 we completed the transfer of all of our operations
and administrative functions into one site in Borough, London.
This exercise ran very smoothly and was carried out in a highly
professional manner by our people. The positive impact of
bringing everyone together as one team is already very evident
and I am confident that we will continue to derive further benefits
in the future. 
Market dynamics and economic backdrop
The prospects for the UK eating out market look favourable 
on both short and medium term bases. Socio-economic factors
such as an ageing population, more females in work and levels 
of disposable income significantly higher than for previous
generations augur well for our industry. Lifestyle changes are 
also positive with an increasing level of consumer spending 
on leisure activities. Projections for future growth in eating out
spend indicate a continuation of recent trends for a rate of
growth ahead of GDP growth. 
We believe that interest rates and employment levels are two 
key drivers of consumer spend which can potentially impact 
our marketplace. We have seen interest rates rise three times 
in the past nine months and whilst we are encouraged by the
resilience of our business in the face of such rises, we remain
vigilant to the potential impact of significant further increases in
the cost of borrowing. In terms of the outlook for employment
we are encouraged by the high levels of employment and believe
that the increases seen in recent years have provided some
underpinning for consumer–facing businesses such as ourselves. 
Cost inflation in our sector has been an issue for the past twelve
to eighteen months and TRG has clearly demonstrated its ability
to cope with this. On balance, we believe that the macro-
economic backdrop remains broadly favourable for our sector. 
Against a backdrop of positive demand-side dynamics, a key
concern for some time has been supply-side risk. In this regard
we believe that we have positioned TRG in market segments
which afford some protection from supply-side risk whilst
benefiting significantly from the positive demand trends in our
marketplace. This has resulted in a more resilient business with
the potential to deliver higher-quality, long-term, sustainable and
growing cash flows. 
Future prospects 
2006 was another good year for the Group but our attention 
is now focused on 2007 and beyond. We have a superb
portfolio of brands, good visibility on rollout of new restaurants,
occupy leading market positions in our chosen segments and
have a fantastic team of people. The year has started well with
like-for-like sales for the first nine weeks 5% ahead of last year
and we are confident of continuing our progress in 2007. 
Andrew Page
Chief Executive Officer
4 April 2007
increase in the proposed 
full year dividend
>
+26%
The Restaurant Group plc 
Annual Report 2006 11
>
>7 ,500
>
5
individuals contributing
to the success of the
Group, every day
years of like-for-like
revenue growth
This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007. 
This information in itself does not constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of section 240 Companies Act 1985.
