 Operating and financial review
Chairman’s statement
The Restaurant Group plc 
Annual Report 2006 04
“2006 was, in many ways, 
a watershed year for The
Restaurant Group – the first 
full twelve months of trading 
in its new form. These results
demonstrate the strength and
potential of our business and
our brands.”
Alan M. Jackson
Chairman
>
Prospering in a
challenging marketplace
This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007. 
This information in itself does not constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of section 240 Companies Act 1985. I am delighted to report that the Group has enjoyed another
successful year of profitable growth. 2006 was, in many ways, 
a watershed year for The Restaurant Group – the first full twelve
months of trading in its new form. You will recall that 2005 was 
a year of considerable change for the Group on the corporate
front, as we continued to direct our focus away from the
increasingly crowded high street marketplace and positioned 
our business firmly in the out of town segments of the eating 
out market. This was in line with our strategy of focusing on
markets with distinct barriers to entry, good growth prospects 
and high returns on investment. The impact of these changes 
is clear to see in this set of results. 
For 2006 we delivered a like-for-like sales increase of 5% which
was a fantastic performance. As a result, our adjusted profit
before tax grew by 19% on the prior year. In addition, our strong
cash generation enabled the Group to add 47 new restaurants
(including rebranding former DPP units) to its portfolio during the
year, taking the total number of outlets to 284. 
Building on a strong first half performance we made further good
progress during the second six months to produce excellent full
year results. Full year adjusted pre-tax profit increased by 19% to
£35.0m (2005: £29.5m) with turnover from our principal trading
brands increasing by 24% to £308.7m (2005: £248.8m). Adjusted
earnings per share increased by 27% to 11.50p (2005: 9.08p). 
As a result of this excellent performance the Board is
recommending an increased final dividend of 4.95p per share
(2005: 3.84p), an increase of 29%, giving a total dividend for 
the year of 6.00p (2005: 4.75p) per share. Subject to approval 
at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be payable
on 4 July 2007 to shareholders on the register on 8 June 2007
and the shares will be marked ex-dividend on 6 June 2007. As
detailed in my interim statement, we also paid a special dividend
of £34.8m during the first half of the year. 
Our Leisure Division which incorporates Frankie & Benny’s,
Chiquito, Blubeckers and Garfunkel’s enjoyed another excellent
year, recording a 27% increase in operating profit. All of the
brands delivered strong like-for-like growth during 2006 and we
look forward to a continuation of this trend in 2007. During the
year we opened 41 new restaurants in this division and we expect
to open approximately 30 more units in the Leisure Division during
2007. Our new openings are performing well and we continue to
enjoy high levels of return on investment. The performance of 
our co-located units (Frankie & Benny’s and Chiquito) has been
particularly pleasing and we believe that there is scope to continue
this pattern of dual roll-out. 
Our Concessions Division delivered a terrific set of results with
operating profits for this division increasing by 24%. Against a very
challenging backdrop for parts of 2006, this was an outstanding
performance. We opened six new units during the year and we
are pleased with the initial performance. This year we expect to
open a further 2-5 new units in the Concessions Division. 
During 2006 we concluded the conversion programme for 13 
of the DPP sites which we acquired in early 2006 and the results
from these have been pleasing. The remaining sites have been, or
will be, sold or closed. Although the performance of our associate
company, Living Ventures, was disappointing we are encouraged
that the actions being taken by their management are beginning 
to impact positively on performance. Notwithstanding this, we
have made a provision of £9.5m against our carrying value of the
loan note, which has no cash impact, following an impairment
review of our investment and loan note.
Overall, this is an outstanding set of results and demonstrates
both the strength and potential of our business and its brands.
However, none of this would have been possible without the hard
work and dedication of our senior management team and staff.
We have a fantastic team at The Restaurant Group and on behalf
of the Board I would like to thank them all for their valued
contribution over the past year. 
We have started the current year well, with like-for-like sales 
for the first nine weeks 5% ahead. This year our target will 
be to open 30-35 new restaurants, we will be seeking to 
deliver further improvement in margins and our people will be
looking to match or exceed the expectations of our customers
and shareholders. 
I am confident that we will continue to make further good 
progress during the coming year. 
Alan M. Jackson
Chairman
4 April 2007
The Restaurant Group plc 
Annual Report 2006 05
Frankie & Benny’s Gunwharf Key
A real jewel in the crown.
Blubeckers, Sevenoaks
The latest addition to the estate.
>
+5%
Our like-for-like sales growth is a key
performance indicator and this growth
demonstrates the continuing appeal 
of our brands
like-for-like sales growth
* Results are stated excluding non-trading items and excluding the results of Deep Pan
Pizza in the prior year comparatives. Further information is provided in note 2 of the
financial statements.
This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007. 
This information in itself does not constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of section 240 Companies Act 1985.
