 04
TheRestaurantGroupplc
Annual Report 2007
Introduction
2007 was another year of good progress for The Restaurant Group (“TRG”) building on
the strong performance of the previous year.Both divisions performed well and all of our
key performance metrics improved. Revenue, EBITDA, profits and margins all grew and
this serves to highlight both the benefits of our strategy of focusing on the out of town
marketplace and also the efficacy of our model. It is particularly encouraging that TRG
was able to achieve these results againstamorechallenging economic backdrop and this
demonstrates both the defensive and resilient characteristics of our market positioning
and the strength of our operations and brands. Asaresult, the Group achievedarecor d
level of adjusted earnings per shareat14.64p representing growth of 27% on the previous
year.Considering that the “bar” had been raised significantlyin2006, when earnings
per sharegrewby27%, these results representavery satisfactory performance.
TRGrationale
Our coreobjective continues to be growth in shareholder value and our strategy to
achieve this has been, and will continue to be, to buildabusiness capable of delivering
long-term, sustainable and growing cashflows.Iampleased to report that, again, we
have successfullyconverted our profits into cash atavery healthy rate. Strong growth in
earnings per sharehas translated into strong growth in cashflow per share. Our model
enablesthe Group to continue its growth inapredominantly organic and highly value
accretive way,funded through internally generated funds. Wherewedeem it appropriate
we arealso able to supplement this organic growth via targeted acquisitions, as we did
during 2007 with the acquisition of the Brunning&Price pub restaurant business. Our
touchstones arecashflow and returnoninvestment and, whether we areassessinga new
site or an acquisition, our focus is on ensuring that the investment is value accretive.
TRG’sprimary focus is on edge of town, out of town, rural, semi-rural and airport
locations. These locations have significant barriers to entry,offer good growth prospects
and enableustogenerate consistentlyhigh returns on investment. We occupy leading
marketpositions in each of these segments and we arewell placed to continue to grow
our business in these areas. Looking forward, we haveastrong pipeline of new sites for
the next three years.
Group results
*Results marked as adjusted arestated excluding non-trading items (refer to note 2)
All of our key performance metrics improved during 2007 with growth in both of our
divisions:
> Building on the 5% increase in like-for-like sales in 2006, we grew this metric by 5.5%
in 2007.Approximately70% of this increase represented “covers” growth with mor e
people using our restaurants and in 2007 we sold morethan 30 million meals;
> Revenue increased by 17% to £367m;
> Adjusted EBITDA increased by 22% to £67.8m and adjusted operating profit increased
by 23% to £48.2m; and
> Margins improved at both divisional and Group levels with our Group adjusted operating
profit marginincreasing by 60 basis points to 13.1%–avery satisfactory result
particularly againstatough hurdle of 140 and 90 basis point improvements in 2006
and 2005 respectively.
Again, the increase in profit was the product of three principal components–like-for-like
profit increases from the existing estate, profitable contribution from new openings and
further cost savings resulting from operational efficiencies and purchasing initiatives.This
combination representsahealthy background to our continued profitable development.
Operatingand financial review
ChiefExecutive
Officer’sreview
ofoperations
“Theteamdeliveredanother
impressiveperformancein2007,
withearningsup27%and36new
restaurantssuccessfullyopened
andtradingwell.”
Andrew Page
Chief Executive Officer
+17%
Increaseinrevenue 05
TheRestaurantGroupplc
Annual Report 2007
Total revenue
£285.2m
Operatingprofit
£61.6m
Operatingmargin
21.6%
Frankie&Benny’s(159units)
Frankie&Benny’sperformed superblywith both EBITDA and operating profit increasing
by morethan 20% and good growth in margins. During the year we opened 20 new
restaurantsofwhich 10 wereonnon-cinema sites. The results from the new openings
have been excellent and they areset to deliver very strong returns. This year we ar e
aiming to openasimilar number of new restaurants and, having been busy in recent years
buildingahigh quality pipeline of new sites, we lookforwardtocontinued strong returns.
Chiquito(53units)
Chiquito enjoyed another excellent year with growth in EBITDAand operating profit
of almost30% and operating profit margin up 90 basis points. Againstabackground
of very high growth in profits and margins in both 2006 and 2005, this represents an
outstanding performance. Last year we challenged the Chiquito team to build on their
terrific performance in 2006 and they did not let us down.Iamconfident that they will be
just as keen to repeat that feat in 2008! During the year we opened eight new restaurants
and we aredelighted with their performance. We expect to open 5-8 new Chiquito
restaurantsin2008. As noted in my report last year we areparticularly pleased with the
performance of our restaurants which areco-located with Frankie&Benny’sand we ar e
continuing with our plans to pursue these dual roll-out opportunities.
Garfunkel’s(26units)
Garfunkel’sperformed well during 2007 and, notwithstanding that we lost 19 weeks of
trade during the first half whilst restaurants wereclosed for refurbishment, the business
delivered approximatelythe same level of profit as for 2006. The refurbishments wer e
completed by the end of the first half and during the second half profits and margins
increased significantly. Garfunkel’sisnow in its 29th year and continues to deliver
excellent profits and returns.
PubRestaurants(42units)
This business now comprises Blubeckers and, following its acquisition in October 2007,
the Brunning&Price pub restaurant business. Blubeckers performed solidly during 2007
and has good potential.During 2006 we embarked uponamoreambitious rollout
programme for Blubeckers and this continued in 2007.Last year we opened six new
Blubeckers pub restaurants and in the summer we strengthened the Blubeckers team
by introducing senior management withastrong track recordwithin TRG of operational
management and also good experience of executing successful rollouts. The impact
of this has been very positive.
Following the acquisition of Brunning&Price (“B&P”), we addedafurther 14 new pub
restaurantstoour portfolio. We aredelighted with the performance of the B&P pub
restaurantssince the acquisition and we intend to grow the business.The B&P pub
restaurantshaveamorerelaxed feel compared with Blubeckers. Although B&P’spubs
arenot branded they all shareasimilar typeoffit out and operating style. The quality
of food is high–B&P won the Good Pub Guide’s Pub Group of the Year Awardfor the
thirdtime in 2007–and they attractaregular and loyal customer base. We aredelighted
to have retained all of the operational management team at Brunning&Price. It is an
experienced, talented and successful team and we look forwardtoworking with the
team to further develop and grow our Pub Restaurant business.
During 2008 we areexpecting to openatotal of 5-10 new pub restaurants and, longer-
term, the Pub Restaurantbusiness has the potential to becomeasignificant part of
the Group.
Frankie&Benny’sand Chiquito, Blackbur n
Brunning&Price, CornMill
Leisur e
+21%
Growth in revenue in our
Leisuredivision 06
TheRestaurantGroupplc
Annual Report 2007
Total revenue
£81.2m
Operatingprofit
£12.5m
Operatingmargin
15.4%
Our Concessions division enjoyed another year of good progress producingastrong
increase in operating profit and an improvement in margin. Againstamorechallenging
operating background both logisticallyand cost-wise this is an outstanding performance.
We opened two new units during 2007 and these aregenerating strong returns. We
expectasmallnet increase in the number of Concessions units during 2008 in what will
beayear of significant change given the developments at Heathrow airport. In late March
we will open four new sites at the new Terminal5and later in the year when Terminal 2
closes we will close our restaurant there. During 2008 we areexpecting some significant
swings in trading patterns at Heathrow as passengers migrate from the existing terminals
into the new T5. Going forward, we areconfident that these new developments place our
Concessions business inavery strong position.
Non-cor e
During the year losses from non-coreactivities decreased by £0.55m and we will continue
to take steps to reduce these non-corelosses.
Corporateactivity
In October 2007 we acquired Brunning&Price Limited for £32m in cash. The business
comprises of 14 trading pub restaurants and one development site. B&P is based
predominantly in the North West and hasalong history of profitable growth. We have
retained B&P’soperational management team, will continue to operate the pub restaurants
in the existing, highlysuccessful style and we will gradually add new pubs to the B&P
business. Together B&P and Blubeckers provideavery attractive opportunity to grow
our Pub Restaurant business.
Marketdynamicsandeconomicbackdrop
We areconfident that prospects for the eating out market remain positive. Socio-
economic factors such as an ageing population, morefemales in work and levels of
disposableincomes significantly higher than in previous generations augur well for our
industry.Lifestyle changes arealso positive with an increasing propensity to spend
on leisureactivities.Eating out, particularly at our popular price points (£10-£16 spend
per head),has becomeahabitual part of most people’slives and is something many ar e
reluctant to give up. During 2007 the smoking ban came into effect in England and
Wales, following the ban in Scotland the previous year.Overall, we believe that TRG has
benefited from this as morefamilies and those with an aversion to smoking have visited
our restaurants.
During most of 2007 and into 2008 much has been said and written aboutthe
deteriorating economic backdrop and pressures on the consumer.A series of successive
interest rate rises starting in 2006 and continuing through into 2007 saw base rates rise
by 125 basis points (in effect increasing the cost of borrowing almost 30%). The cost
of servicing an already high level of personal debt thereforerose for much of the UK
population. Compounding this we saw inflation rise, by varying amounts depending upon
which particular index one chose to use, and the burden of taxation increase. Together
this combination has served to make life moredifficult for the UK consumer and looking
forwardinto 2008 we anticipateacontinuation of these tighter conditions.
Whilst we would not suggest that TRG is completely impervious to these economic
factors, we arevery encouraged that our business has demonstratedaconsiderable
level of resilience in the face ofaslowing UK economy andatighter consumer market.
We believethat this is the result ofanumber of factors including our popular price point
and value for money,our focus on areas with higher barriers to entry (and thus lower
supply-side risk), the strength of our brands, consumers’ reluctance to forego eating out
and, very importantly, the skill and application of the TRG team. Restaurants which have
opened within the last few years have performed very well, delivering strong returns and
we intend to continue to openasimilar number of new restaurants each year for the
foreseeable future.
Operatingand financial review
ChiefExecutive
Officer’sreview
ofoperations
continued
Concessions(50units)
Shake-A-Hula, Gatwick Airport
+22%
IncreaseinEBITDA
Brunning&Price, Pant-yr-Ochain, Wrexham 07
TheRestaurantGroupplc
Annual Report 2007
We believe that interest rates and employment levels aretwo key drivers of consumer
spend which can potentially impact our marketplace. We have recently seen two
reductions in base rates to the current level of 5.25% and we note that employment levels
are, and areprojected to remain, high. Whilst it is suggested that thereisscope for further
monetary relaxation during 2008 we believethat, in the light of current levels of inflation as
measured by the CPI, it may take some time beforethe base rate drops back below 5%.
We arealso mindful of the risks of further taxation pressures asaresult of the level of the
budget deficit. Furthermore, GDP growth is forecast to slow in 2008 toabelow trend level
but, looking further ahead, thereisthe prospect ofapick-up, back towards trend, in 2009.
Asaresult, we have factoredaless favourable macro-economic backdrop into our
planning for 2008 than we have experienced over the last five years.
Despite this we believe that TRG is well-placed to weather these tighter conditions. Recent
trading has been solid and we continue to see excellent results from our new openings.
Cost pressures have been an issue for some time. We identified the risk of inflationary
cost pressures with respect to our input costs two years ago and, during 2006 wherew e
wereable to, we took steps to remove or minimise that risk through taking out longer term
(typically three years) fixed or capped price contracts.This approach served us well during
2007 and we will continue to benefitfromthis in 2008 and 2009. However,weare still
exposed in some areas wherecurrently cost pressures arebeing felt (mainly fresh meats
and dairy/milk products). In these areas we would normallyfix prices for 6-12 months
but at present we are, in most cases, eschewing fixes of morethan three months as our
purchasing team anticipateareasonable possibility of prices softening later in the year.
We have also kept our menu content under regular review so as to try to mitigate the
impact of cost inflation through careful menu engineering. In the light of the current tighter
consumer market and, we believe, the importance of value for our customers we arelikely
to hold offincreasing menu prices in the short term but we will be carefully reviewing this
during the second quarter with the prospect of some increases later in the year.
Futureprospects
2007 was another year of good progress for the Group with both divisions achieving
growth. The current year has started well with like-for-like sales growth during the first nine
weeks at +4% (of which covers growth represents 70%) and total revenue for the same
period up 21% (a 16% increase excluding B&P). At this stage last year,like-for-like sales
growth was +5% (of which covers growth represented 75%) and total revenue was 16%
ahead. Whilst we areencouraged by this, we recognise both the ongoing impact of
acontinuation ofatighter consumer marketplace and alsothe fact that our comparative
like-for-like hurdles,at+8.3% and +7.3% in quarters two and three, aredemanding.
We have madeasolid start to the year and, providing thereisnotasignificant further
deterioration in the UK economy,weare confident of continuing our progress in 2008.
AndrewPage
ChiefExecutiveOfficer
5March 2008
>30m
Customers served
Chiquito, Southampton
Frankie&Benny’s, Portsmouth
27%
Earningsper sharegrowth in 2007
