 06 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011
Chief Executive Officer’s
review of operations
Introduction
2011 was another year of good progress for The Restaurant 
Group, achieved against a challenging economic backdrop 
and an increasingly constrained environment for consumer–
facing businesses. The Group traded well for most of the 
year, achieving like-for-like sales growth in eleven of the 
twelve months. The year started very well with a strong 
bounce back in the early months following the severe winter 
weather at the end of 2010. Trade during the spring months 
was variable and, as we entered summer, it picked up 
markedly. From late summer through to mid-November, 
trading was quite reasonable and for the final six or seven 
weeks of the year it was strong. 
All of the constituent parts of the Group saw growth in 2011 
and, despite having to contend with some significant input 
cost pressures, the Group achieved strong growth in 
adjusted profits and a modest improvement in adjusted 
margins. Total sales were 7.25% ahead of the previous year 
(like-for-like sales 3.25% ahead) and adjusted earnings per 
share increased by 14% - against a challenging backdrop 
and year-on-year growth for the previous years this 
represents a good result and bodes well for the future. 
Results*
*Results marked as adjusted are stated excluding non-trading items and, 
unless otherwise stated, reflect the 52 week period in 2011 compared with the 
comparable 52 week period in 2010. Statutory results for 2010 were stated on 
a 53 week reporting period. Like-for-like information is stated for a consistent 
number of weeks in 2011 and 2010.
TRG’s trading metrics performed well for the 52 week period 
to 1 January 2012: 
f  Total sales increased by 7.25%
f  Like-for-like sales increased by 3.25%
f  We sold 39 million meals
f  Adjusted EBITDA increased by 8% to £89.7m
f  Adjusted operating profit increased by 8% to £61.2m
f  Adjusted operating profit margin increased by 10 basis 
points to 12.6%
f  Adjusted pre-tax profit increased by 12% to £60.3m
f  Adjusted earnings per share increased by 14% to 21.86p
f  Net debt, at 0.48x Group adjusted EBITDA, fell by £5.3m 
to £41.6m
  It is particularly encouraging 
that returns from our 
openings in the last three 
years have been at some of 
the highest levels achieved 
in the past decade.
7.25%
total sales increase
12%
increase in adjusted  
profit before tax Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements
Our people and our business
Throughout our business, we aim to continually evolve and 
improve our offering - food, service and standards. Menus are 
reviewed twice a year, our seasonal specials menus change 
quarterly and we pay close attention to the nutritional and 
calorific content of dishes to ensure that we have something to 
match all of our customers’ requirements. Particular attention 
is paid to our children’s offerings to ensure that they afford the 
opportunity to form a key part of a sensibly balanced diet. 
Much work has taken place throughout our Group in this area 
and further detail is contained in the corporate responsibility 
report. Our focus continues to be directed towards providing 
our customers with a great dining experience – plenty of 
choice across the price points, offerings geared towards 
specific parts of the day, good value and superb hospitality 
and service. We strive to employ the best people and to 
provide them with an opportunity to develop. Our staff benefit 
from a number of training programmes as soon as they join us 
and, as they progress through the ranks, the training becomes 
more specifically geared to equipping them to become 
efficient and effective managers. In addition to our management 
training programmes, our staff at all levels have the opportunity 
to secure qualifications in several areas relevant to our 
industry, including Food Hygiene, Health & Safety, NVQ’s  
and BII accreditations.
We employ more than 10,000 people throughout the UK and 
during 2011 more than 500 new members joined the TRG 
team. 2011 also marked the first graduate recruitment 
programme for TRG. This attracted a large number of very 
high quality applicants and we have employed eleven 
graduates who have embarked on a fast–track scheme 
towards restaurant management. 
Our brands
Frankie & Benny’s (208 units) 
Frankie & Benny’s performed well in 2011, increasing revenues 
and profits; margins were maintained at 2010 levels. We 
opened 16 new restaurants of which nine were on non-cinema 
sites. All of the new openings are trading strongly and they are 
expected to deliver excellent returns. We anticipate opening 
between 14 and 18 new Frankie & Benny’s restaurants in 2012. 
Chiquito (69 units)
Chiquito delivered a good performance in 2011 with increases 
in revenues, profits and margins. We opened four new 
Chiquito restaurants during the year all of which are located 
alongside Frankie & Benny’s. This dual roll out strategy works 
well and we expect it to continue in 2012. The new Chiquito’s 
are trading well and are expected to deliver strong returns. 
During 2012 we expect to open two to four new Chiquito 
restaurants. 
Garfunkel’s (23 units) 
Garfunkel’s traded well during 2011 delivering good levels  
of margins and profits. During the year we opened two new 
Garfunkel’s restaurants – these are trading well and are set to 
deliver strong returns. We are building a good pipeline of new 
Garfunkel’s sites and currently expect to open two to four a 
year for the next few years. During the first half of 2012 we 
expect to open at least two new restaurants in central London. 
Pub restaurants (42 units)
Pub restaurants traded well during 2011 and delivered good 
levels of margins and profits. During 2011 the ex-Blubeckers 
conversion programme was completed. The portfolio is now 
operating in line with the Brunning & Price model and the 
results of the changes made over the past 18 months are 
most encouraging. We opened one new Pub restaurant, the 
Old Hall at Sandbach, which is trading superbly and is set to 
deliver strong returns. During 2012 we expect to open 
between three and five new Pub restaurants.
Concessions (58 units) 
Our Concessions business has traded superbly during 2011 
with strong increases in revenues, margins and profits. An 
absence of disruptions, as experienced during 2010, certainly 
helped the performance but, even adjusting for this, the 
underlying trend was one of good improvements across all  
of the key metrics. Passenger numbers at the principal UK 
airports rose solidly and our business benefited from this. 
During the year we opened two new restaurants at Gatwick 
airport – these are trading well and are set to deliver excellent 
returns. We are expecting to open two or three new 
restaurants during 2012. 
Intro copy Opening our 200th 
Frankie & Benny’s
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 07  08 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011
Chief Executive Officer’s
review of operations
(continued)
As a result of strong cash generation, the Group has continued 
to significantly reduce its levels of debt. This has been 
especially marked in recent years whilst roll out opportunities 
for new restaurants have been limited to around 25 new sites 
per annum. In the four years since 2007 , net debt has reduced 
from £77m to £42m. During this period the Group has invested 
£106m in opening 108 new restaurants, £48m (maintenance 
capex) has been invested in maintaining the existing estate and 
£67m has been paid out to shareholders in the form of 
dividends. During much of this period the economic backdrop 
has been poor (and at times very bleak). Against such a 
backdrop we believe that TRG’s very prudent capital structure 
has been appropriate, safeguarding shareholders’ interests 
whilst allowing the Group to grow profits and cash flow and for 
dividends to increase. Whilst economic conditions continue to 
be tough, and the immediate outlook opaque, we intend to 
continue to adopt this very prudent approach to capital 
structure. However, once conditions improve we will review the 
position to determine what, if any, adjustments to the capital 
structure are appropriate. This review will, of course, take full 
account of the key considerations listed above and any 
changes would be in line with our policy of maintaining a 
sensible and prudent capital structure whilst also growing 
shareholder value.
+3.25%
like-for-like  
sales growth
>10,000
people employed  
throughout the UK
The TRG business model, capital structure,  
and rationale
Our core objective continues to be growth in shareholder 
value and our strategy to achieve this is to build a business 
capable of delivering long-term, sustainable and growing 
cash flows. The Group has a consistent record of converting 
profits into cash at a very healthy rate, and delivering 
increasing cash flows each year, and in 2011 this was again 
the case. TRG’s business model enables the Group to grow 
in a predominately organic and highly value-accretive way, 
funded from its internally generated funds. 
Our touchstones are cash flow and return on investment. Our 
business model enables our shareholders to enjoy the 
benefits of high returns on capital, growth in profits and cash 
flow and sizeable income distributions from our progressive 
dividend policy. The Group’s capital structure is framed in a 
sensible and prudent manner which enables shareholder 
value to grow and which recognises the operational and 
financial gearing inherent in our (predominantly) lease-based 
business model. In determining the appropriate capital 
structure, the key considerations which we keep under 
regular review are: 
1.  The level of free cash flow generated and our expectation 
for this going forward; 
2.  The level of capital investment required to fund our new 
openings (and our expectations with regard to the number 
of new openings over the medium-term); 
3.  The maintenance of our progressive dividend policy and 
our intention to grow dividends in line with earnings; 
4.  Ensuring that we have sufficient financial resources 
available to take advantage of opportunities to expand the 
business; 
5.  Ensuring that we have sufficient financial resources 
available to cope with a deterioration in trading conditions 
as a result of an economic downturn or other adverse 
factors; and
6.  Maintaining a good level of fixed charge cover as measured 
by the Group’s ability to meet and service all of its financial 
obligations.
Our touchstones are 
cash flow and return  
on investment Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements
Capital expenditure and TRG opening programme
Our key criteria in determining where to invest our capital is  
to operate restaurants in locations with high barriers to entry, 
good growth prospects and where we are confident that we 
can secure high returns on investment. Our focus is on edge 
of town, out of town, rural, semi-rural and airport locations 
and we occupy leading market positions in these segments. 
The footprint that the Group occupies in edge and out of 
town leisure and airport locations is comprehensive and,  
from a market positioning perspective, very formidable. It 
would be virtually impossible to replicate this footprint from 
scratch and the Group is well placed to continue to roll out 
more restaurants. 
Our philosophy regarding capital expenditure remains 
consistent – we focus on cash generation and on securing a 
return on invested capital at rates ahead of TRG’s weighted 
average cost of capital. We continue to apply the same levels 
of analytical rigour, commercial analysis, experience and risk 
adjustment to each capital project that we undertake.  
This approach has served TRG well and we do not intend to 
deviate from it. This disciplined and consistent approach has 
also ensured that our new openings continue to deliver strong 
returns. It is particularly encouraging that returns from our 
openings in the last three years have been at some of the 
highest levels achieved in the past decade. 
Our free cash flow generation is sufficient to enable the Group 
to accelerate the openings programme whilst maintaining 
maintenance capital expenditure at an appropriate level and 
pursuing a progressive dividend policy. As a result of the 
tough economic backdrop, currently there are very few new 
edge and out of town schemes being built and, in the 
short-term, this situation is likely to persist. However, there are 
a significant number of new schemes in developers’ pipelines 
and, at some point, these are likely to be activated. In the 
meantime, many of our new restaurant opportunities are being 
secured from a variety of other sources and the work that we 
are doing in this regard has had the benefit of widening the 
potential paths to further future roll out growth for the Group. 
The economic downturn, whilst presenting formidable trading 
challenges, has also afforded to us several new opportunities 
and we intend to continue to identify and pursue these where 
we are confident that they will meet our returns criteria. 
During 2012 we are expecting to open between 25 and 30 
new restaurants and we are also successfully adding to our 
potential pipeline for the next two to three years. 
Market dynamics and the economy
Companies operating in the retail environment have found 
conditions tough in recent years and this seems to have 
become a persistent theme. A deep recession followed by 
rising taxes, household inflation, a fiscal squeeze with lower 
government spending and higher direct and indirect taxation, 
rising unemployment (with the equally corrosive, concomitant, 
fear of unemployment) and negative changes in year-on-year 
real wages, have placed significant pressures on many 
consumer-facing businesses. This has proved particularly 
problematic for businesses with poor market positioning, 
weak business models and high levels of financial leverage. 
Attempts at stimulating the economy through expansionary 
monetary stimuli have had some success, but the economic 
backdrop remains very tough. Selling products and services 
to the UK consumer has certainly become quite a challenge.
In addition to consumers being squeezed as a result of the 
difficult economic backdrop, other factors are also at work 
and some distinct trends, both operationally and 
behaviourally, have been evident. Those companies that have 
established strong market positions, with offerings that are 
accessible, attractive, convenient, well understood, trusted 
and are seen by their customers to offer good value have 
tended to outperform. Customers have become more 
selective about what, and how, they purchase and it is 
noteworthy how important a strong and clear online offering 
and communication platform has become for many parts of 
the retail marketplace. The ability to read and quickly adapt to 
customer trends is increasingly important. 
A robust and  
well proven  
business model
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 09  10 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011
Chief Executive Officer’s
review of operations
(continued)
In the short-term however, the key risks to growth are largely 
macro-economic. This time last year the picture seemed to 
be getting clearer and there was a real expectation that the 
economy had started the steep climb out of recession. 
Indeed this picture persisted until early summer, at which 
point political paralysis in the US followed by the significant 
shocks in the Eurozone brought it to an abrupt halt. The final 
part of 2011 was characterised by great uncertainty about the 
Eurozone, sovereign debt and the pressures on the banking 
and financial system. Although the UK is not part of the 
Eurozone, around half of its export business is directed there 
and its banks and financial institutions have exposure to 
Eurozone sovereign and corporate debt. A collapse of the 
Eurozone was, and still is, regarded as being bad for Britain. 
Against this backdrop, increasing uncertainty and deep 
concern took hold in much of the UK during the latter stages 
of 2011 and this is still evident. This makes life more difficult 
for consumer–facing businesses as many households decide 
to rein in their discretionary expenditure even more. More 
recently a number of steps have been taken to re-structure 
the heavily indebted Eurozone countries and to provide 
liquidity to the banking system in an effort to stimulate the 
economies of the Eurozone countries. This has provided 
some breathing space in which to try to secure a workable 
solution and to work towards a re-balancing. However, in the 
short-term it is likely that uncertainty will persist and this will 
act as a further drag on economic growth during 2012.
In the UK, 2011 ended with the economic outlook poorer than 
it had been just a few months earlier. Projections for UK GDP 
growth were cut and the outlook for employment 
deteriorated. As we start 2012, it seems that we will be facing 
an economic backdrop just as tough as the one experienced 
during the past year. There are however several positives – 
inflation is expected to fall sharply and, whilst money wage 
increases are likely to be fairly modest, it is possible that, as 
we move through 2012, household incomes available for 
With many households experiencing a squeeze on funds 
available for discretionary spend, harder choices between 
competing consumption wishes are having to be made. A 
propensity to save (or pay down debt) has replaced the urge 
to buy on credit that was so prevalent just a few years ago. 
Consumer-facing businesses have had to work harder to 
claim a share of this smaller cake. 
Those companies that operate in the dining out sector have 
approached these challenges in different ways. Many have 
chosen to compete for customers largely on price and this 
has often manifested itself via heavy promotions and deep 
discounting. “Buy one get one free” and other similar, deep 
discounting, offers have been rife, and they still are. Our 
Group adopted a different approach, focusing on value, 
choice and consistency of service and standards. We have 
also increasingly harnessed digital media to broaden 
awareness of our brands and what we can offer. This has 
served TRG well, enabling it to continue to grow profits and 
protect margins.
Eating out has become habitual in the UK and it is an activity 
that many people are reluctant to give up. At our price point it 
represents a “small ticket” item or, to put it another way, “an 
affordable treat”. In times of fiscal restraint and stretched 
finances, it is a “pleasure” in which many people still feel able 
to indulge. 
This trend to eat out regularly is secular, driven largely by 
socio-economic factors (ageing population, busy lifestyles, 
more women in the workplace etc) and growth is set to 
continue over the longer term. Whilst this growth may be 
harder to achieve in the current climate, once conditions 
improve, and particularly when people feel more confident 
about their jobs and incomes, the upward path is likely to be 
re-established. 
400
sites
Focused
on excellent value,  
choice and service Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements
discretionary spend will rise, sterling is still at a level that 
makes UK exports attractive and several of the larger 
exporters (for example vehicle manufacturers) are beginning 
to invest and hire more workers and there now seems to be  
a new determination within the Eurozone to implement 
measures that will avoid a break-up and may eventually lead 
to a sustainable re-balancing. Within the UK we are also 
looking forward to two significant events – the Diamond 
Jubilee and the Olympic Games. Both of these will be good 
for Britain and could also benefit UK businesses. 
From our perspective, the major short-term macro-economic 
issues are unemployment, job insecurity and squeezed 
household finances. Providing there is not a significant further 
deterioration in any of these, the UK should, as we move into 
the second part of the year, start to see a gradual re-building 
of consumer confidence.
Future prospects
We are planning on the basis that the outlook for 2012 will  
be just as tough as the conditions experienced last year and 
we have framed our plans accordingly. Over the past four 
years, our business has experienced some difficult trading 
conditions and during that period sales, profits and cash  
flow all increased. TRG is well placed to cope with 
challenging conditions and, very importantly, to benefit 
significantly from the upturn in consumer confidence that  
will, in due course, prevail. 
www.trgplc.com web
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 11 
TRG’s businesses command strong market positions in each 
of our chosen segments and our brands are well recognised 
for the quality, breadth and value of their offerings. We have a 
well proven business model, a strong balance sheet and are 
well positioned to continue our expansion. Just as we did in 
2011, during 2012 we will continue to:
f  Stick to our areas of expertise; 
f  Focus on our customers by providing excellent value, 
choice and service;
f  Maintain high standards of operational efficiency and 
execution;
f  Carefully control our costs and seek to mitigate and 
minimise the impact of inflationary input costs. Where we 
are able to secure fixed or capped price contracts for key 
purchases, on acceptable terms, we will seek to do so;
f  Add high quality new restaurants to our portfolio; and 
f  Focus on cash flow, returns and growing  
shareholder value. 
Our aim is to continue to strengthen our market positions  
and deliver long-term and sustainable profitable growth. 
201 1 was a tough year for our sector and it presented TRG  
with some big challenges. As always, our team rose to those 
challenges and produced a superb performance. All of our 
people will be working towards replicating this again in 2012. 
The first two months of 2012 have started solidly with total sales 
3% ahead of last year (like-for-like sales of -2%), and we will be 
looking to build further on this as we move through the year.
Andrew Page
Chief Executive Officer
29 February 2012
Working with  
the local community
Our aim is to  
deliver long-term  
and sustainable 
profitable growth
