 04 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011
Chairman’s statement
Although trading conditions were difficult, and the economic 
backdrop weak, the Group has been able to further 
strengthen its market positions, grow the estate and generate 
significant increases in cash flow. This means that we are well 
placed to weather the more straitened economic conditions 
with which UK consumer-facing businesses currently have to 
contend and, as conditions improve, the Group is very well 
positioned to take advantage of the opportunities to further 
accelerate its growth. 
Our focus on our customers and providing consistently high 
standards of service and value for money has enabled the 
Group to continue its profitable progress. 2011 was a busy 
year for our team as we looked to build on the strong 
performance delivered in the previous year. We opened 
25 new restaurants, served 39 million meals and created 
more than 500 new jobs. During 2011 the Group’s revenues 
grew by 7.25% to £487m (2010: £454m), adjusted profit 
before tax grew by 12% to £60m (2010: £54m) and adjusted 
earnings per share increased by 14% to 22p (2010: 19p).  
This increase in earnings per share represents a compound 
annual growth rate of 14% over the five years to 2011; a 
significant achievement that demonstrates the resilience  
and consistently positive performance of the Group. 
In addition to having to manage the business against a 
backdrop of pressure on household incomes we have also 
been faced with some fairly sizeable cost increases. Much 
effort has been put into mitigating and minimizing these cost 
increases and this manifested itself in a modest margin 
improvement and strong profit uplift. 
As a result of this strong performance, the Board is 
recommending a final dividend of 6.5p per share giving a total 
for the year of 10.5p per share (2010: 9.00p), an increase of 
17%. Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General 
Meeting to be held on 17 May 2012, the final dividend will be 
paid on 19 July 2012 to shareholders on the register on  
29 June 2012 and the shares will be marked ex-dividend  
on 27 June 2012. 
  I am delighted to report 
that the Group delivered 
another excellent 
performance in 2011,  
with growth in revenues, 
adjusted profits and 
adjusted earnings  
per share. 
39 million
meals served  
in the year
500
new jobs created Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 05 
All of our businesses performed well with positive like-for-like 
sales growth, good levels of profits and we added new sites 
to each of our brands. The performance of our new openings 
has been excellent and our expectations in respect of returns 
on investment look likely to be exceeded. This bodes well for 
the future progress of the Group. Currently, we are expecting 
to open between 25 and 30 new restaurants during 2012 and 
we are encouraged by both the size and quality of the 
pipeline of new sites. 
TRG has consistently demonstrated the resilient nature of its 
business model and this is another excellent set of results. 
The Group is managed in a disciplined and focused manner 
– growing both organically and also through a judicious and 
carefully executed roll out. By operating in this manner, we are 
able to grow our estate, increase earnings and dividends and 
generate high levels of cash and returns on investment. 
These excellent results are the result of the hard work, 
expertise and dedication of our Directors, senior management 
and staff. On behalf of the Board I would like to record our 
thanks to all of them. 
We have had a solid start to the current year, with sales 
growth of 3% (like-for-like sales of -2%) for the first eight 
weeks of the year, and we are looking to build further on this. 
We have a superb business with distinct market positions and 
strong brands with outstanding value-for-money offerings 
which have wide appeal. I am confident that we are well 
placed to continue our further profitable progress.
Alan Jackson
Chairman
29 February 2012
A successful  
year of further  
organic growth
www.trgplc.com web
