 04 Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2010
As we announced in our pre-close statement we have not to 
date experienced any project cancellations. Even in London 
where the new Government showed some concern around 
NHS London’s plans for polyclinics it is emerging that where 
schemes have GP support and deliver clear benefits, in terms of 
both service and cost, then they are proceeding. This is the case 
with most of the schemes we have been working on with our 
partners. Change in the NHS presents an opportunity for us. 
Shifting care to community settings means estate needs to 
change and Ashley House is positioning itself as a partner to 
help deliver that change. This is not just happening in the NHS 
but in other areas of public service, hence the importance to us 
of our involvement in the LIFT market which allows us to work 
in partnership with Local Authorities and other public bodies. 
Indeed, as part of our diversification plan, we announced in 
February the conditional acquisition of the specialist mental 
health and extra care developer Strategic Partnership Solutions 
(“SPS”), widening our skills and expertise in an important 
market closely aligned to the NHS.
Outlook
As a result of the delays and uncertainty in our core market we 
are continuing to explore opportunities to broaden our service 
offer and client base and in so doing increase revenues. Growth 
is expected to continue to be slow during the current financial 
year given the uncertain environment in which we are
operating. Our diversification plan is designed to enable the 
Group to benefit from NHS and general Public Sector change 
and this is expected to position the business for future growth.
Sir William Wells
Chairman
5 July 2010
Results and dividend
I am pleased to confirm that our final results are in line with  
the guidance given at our pre-close announcement made on  
4 May 2010. Revenue grew to £24.9m (2009: £23.8m) whilst 
profit before exceptionals and tax fell to £2.5m (2009: £5.5m). 
Underlying profit was in excess of £4m but reported profit
held back principally due to retained schemes being financed 
within the group as outlined in the pre close announcement. 
The year was challenging because concerns within the NHS 
over public spending led to delays and re-assessment of 
commitments in most areas. This was compounded by political 
uncertainty leading up to the May general election. Both of 
these factors have led to delays to many of the projects we  
are working on, slowing our revenue growth and reducing 
profitability. Despite the delays in schemes we have not had  
any project cancellations and the business has both grown  
and remained profitable. Consequently the Board has proposed 
a final dividend of 3.0p per share, resulting in a total of 4.0p  
for the year (2009: 4.0p).
Our market
NHS Trusts continue to be cautious about their budgets. 
Despite commitment from the new Government to the NHS, 
there remains a lack of clarity around a number of policy  
areas. Nonetheless current policy seems to be committed  
to the shift of care towards care out of hospital into GP led 
settings, a market in which we specialise. We have also been 
encouraged that our LIFT partnerships with Councils and NHS 
Trusts appear to be regarded as important delivery vehicles  
in local estate change.
Chairman’s statement
With our revenues growing from a solid pipeline of opportunities, 
we look forward to the future with confidence.
Sir William Wells, Chairman
Positioned  
for growth
