 02 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011
At a glance
Pub restaurants
 16 new openings in 2011  208 restaurants
Frankie & Benny’s brings together classic American and Italian style with 
food and drink that always provides great value for money. The kitchen 
buzzes with bustling activity as the chefs prepare dishes from our broad 
menu – pizzas, pastas, burgers, grills and other favourites – while, in 
typical stateside fashion, service at Frankie & Benny’s is second to none! 
Settle into a cosy booth to enjoy a casual family meal or a catch up with 
friends and observe the clatter and chatter of the open kitchen and the 
familiar classic 50’s and 60’s soundtrack playing in the background. The 
restaurant walls are filled with family snapshots and memorabilia showing 
life on the lower east side of the Big Apple, helping you into a “New York 
state-of-mind”. First opened in 1995 in Leicester, Frankie & Benny’s has 
become one of the best known casual dining brands in the United 
Kingdom, and trades successfully in leisure and retail locations, stand-
alone sites and at six airports. The estate comprises of over 200 
restaurants spread across the country from Aberdeen to St Austell.
www.frankieandbennys.com
 1 new opening in 201 1  42 Pub restaurants
Really great pubs are timeless, familiar and very British. Everybody knows 
what their perfect pub looks like. Each of our pubs has its own style and 
personality, and you’ll always find a warm welcome, ageless interiors, fine 
British pub food, a large variety of cask ales, fine wines and great coffee. 
Mostly set in beautiful rural or semi-rural locations, each pub has a ‘local’ 
feel and many are set in intriguing buildings with fascinating histories. We 
don’t want all our pubs to look and feel the same – instead we preserve 
the character of the building, which after all was what attracted us to the 
property in the first place. The range of beers available changes frequently 
and seasonal and local specials mean the menu always offers new 
choices alongside trusted favourites each time you visit. There’s friendly, 
engaging service from the moment you arrive, ensuring that all your needs 
are taken care of. We believe that, when done well, classic pubs will never 
go out of fashion, and that opportunities to expand in the sector are 
available for experienced operators with the right offer for customers.
www.trgplc.com/our-restaurants
www.chiquito.co.uk
 4 new openings in 2011  69 restaurants
Mexican for fun, fantastic food, amazing atmosphere – for a good time, 
guaranteed. The Chiquito menu offers a great range of authentic Mexican 
& “Tex-Mex” dishes in a lively environment, with fantastic music. The décor 
draws inspiration from Mexican architecture and Latin style. Some 
restaurants have a rustic and relaxed feel while others demonstrate the 
buzz and graphic energy of contemporary Mexico City. Chiquito favourite 
dishes include nachos, burritos, enchiladas and our signature sizzling 
fajitas, as well as the old favourites – burgers, ribs, salads and hand-cut 
steaks from the grill. We specialise in great food, good times and fantastic 
cocktails to ensure every meal is a fiesta. Chiquito is open for lunch, lazy 
afternoons and lively evenings, so whether you’re out shopping, meeting 
friends after work or planning a party it’s the only place to be! Trading in 
the UK for over 20 years, Chiquito continues to attract a broad mix of 
young adults, couples, teenagers, families and large parties. Almost 70 
leisure, retail and stand-alone restaurants cover the UK with more 
openings planned. The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 03 
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements
Scotland – 51 
28 Frankie & Benny’s 
08 Chiquito 
08 Garfunkel’s 
07 TRG Concessions
Northern Ireland – 4 
03 Frankie & Benny’s 
01 Chiquito
Wales – 21 
13 Frankie & Benny’s 
03 Chiquito 
05 Pub restaurants
South West – 21 
12 Frankie & Benny’s 
06 Chiquito 
01 Garfunkel’s 
02 TRG Concessions
South East – 99 
36 Frankie & Benny’s 
14 Chiquito 
21 Pub restaurants 
28 TRG Concessions
London  
(inside the M25) – 43 
12 Frankie & Benny’s 
07 Chiquito 
14 Garfunkel’s 
05 Pub restaurants 
05 TRG Concessions
East Anglia – 25 
13 Frankie & Benny’s 
03 Chiquito 
02 Pub restaurants 
07 TRG Concessions
Midlands – 47 
36 Frankie & Benny’s 
09 Chiquito 
02 TRG Concessions
North West – 54 
30 Frankie & Benny’s 
09 Chiquito 
09 Pub restaurants 
06 TRG Concessions
North East – 35 
25 Frankie & Benny’s 
09 Chiquito 
01 TRG Concessions
4
51
35
54
47
25
21
21
43
99
 2 new openings in 201 1  23 restaurants
Garfunkel’s – founded in London’s West End in 1979, Garfunkel’s  
is proud to be the original British café restaurant serving breakfast, lunch 
and dinner all day every day. Wake up to a traditional British fry-up or a 
warming bowl of porridge, we have great coffee too, made just the way 
you like it. For lunchtime our salad bar really hits the spot, its fast, its fresh 
and you can make it any way you want to. And of course there’s 
Garfunkel’s classics like rotisserie chicken, hand-battered fish and chips 
and tasty topped burgers fresh from the grill. Everything has been chosen 
because we just love the taste. Principally located across Central London, 
each Garfunkel’s restaurant offers a place to relax and take a break from 
the hustle and bustle outside, with a loyal following of visitors, local 
residents and workers who have been eating at Garfunkel’s for years. 
Garfunkel’s continuing popularity means expansion is still on the menu 
after over 30 years of trading and our latest restaurants offer the same 
friendly welcome and broad menu in a warm contemporary setting, just 
what you need after a hectic shopping trip in the West End or the perfect 
way to complement a theatre visit. Continued success means a healthy 
appetite for growth with more sites earmarked to open in Central London.
www.garfunkels.co.uk
 2 new sites opened in 2011  58 sites
TRG’s Concessions business has a market-leading reputation for developing 
partnerships to deliver catering solutions that meet the needs of our clients 
and their customers. Currently operating almost 60 outlets in the UK’s 
busiest airports, other transport locations and shopping centres, we have 
more than 20 years of experience providing exceptional hospitality to the 
travelling public. Our specialist operating knowledge and flexibility ensures 
successful performance across our diverse brand portfolio, covering a wide 
range of popular categories including table service, counter service, 
sandwich shops, pubs and bars. To meet client and customer needs we 
deliver existing TRG brands, create bespoke concepts and establish 
partnerships to franchise brands from third parties as appropriate. Building 
on our track record of innovation, partnership and performance ahead of 
sector growth will ensure we remain a market leader in this xciting sector.
www.trgconcessions.co.uk
Strong brands 
focused on the 
growing casual 
eating-out market
