 04 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009
Chairman’s statement
“ I am pleased to report that 
The Restaurant Group plc 
(“TRG” or “the Group”) has 
delivered another excellent 
set of results, despite the 
manifest weakness in the  
UK economy.”
The Group has again grown revenues, profits and earnings 
per share. As anticipated, the difficult economic backdrop 
presented a very challenging marketplace for companies 
operating within our sector but, despite those challenges,  
our distinct market positioning, strong brands and focus on 
our customers have enabled TRG to continue its profitable 
development. Building on a solid first half performance the 
Group has continued to grow revenues and returned to 
positive like-for-like sales growth towards the end of 2009.  
It is encouraging that this positive trend has continued with 
like-for-like sales for the first nine weeks of the current year 
1% ahead of last year. During 2009, we served 35 million 
meals (including approaching five million children’s meals), 
opened 19 new restaurants and created approximately  
500 new full and part-time jobs. 
During 2009 the Group’s revenues grew 4.6% to £436m 
(2008: £417m), adjusted profit before tax grew 2% to £50.0m 
(2008: £48.9m) and adjusted earnings per share increased 
by 5% to 17.48p (2008: 16.67p). This increase in adjusted 
earnings per share marks the achievement of greater than 
100% growth over the five year period to 2009, representing 
a compound annual growth rate of 17.4%, a significant 
achievement that demonstrates the on-going positive 
performance of the Group.
Accordingly, the Board is recommending an increased 
dividend for 2009 to be paid as follows: a second interim 
dividend of 6.3p per share to be paid on 30 March 2010 to 
shareholders on the register on 12 March 2010 and shares 
will be marked ex-dividend on 10 March 2010. This second 
interim dividend is equivalent to the final dividend of 6.3p per 
share paid in respect of the 2008 financial year. Additionally, 
and subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General 
Meeting, the Board is recommending the payment of a final 
dividend of 0.3p per share. This will be paid on 7 July 2010 to 
shareholders on the register on 11 June 2010 and the shares 
will be marked ex-dividend on 9 June 2010. This means that 
the total dividend in respect of 2009 will be 8.0p (2008: 7.7p), 
an increase of 4%. Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 05
We have continued to focus on our two divisions, Leisure and 
Concessions, and this has enabled the Group to produce a 
resilient performance despite the severe challenges arising 
from the poor domestic and global economic backdrop. 
Our Leisure division, which incorporates Frankie & Benny’s, 
Chiquito, Garfunkel’s and Pub restaurants, performed  
solidly delivering a 7.5% growth in revenues and a modest 
improvement in profit. During the year we opened 14 new 
restaurants in the Leisure division; these are trading ahead of 
expectations and all are set to deliver strong returns. During 
2010 we plan to open between 13 and 21 new restaurants in 
the Leisure Division. 
Against a very difficult backdrop our Concessions division 
performed commendably and this highlights the resilient 
characteristics of this business. Significant declines in 
passenger numbers at UK airports resulted in our 
Concessions division experiencing a 6% decline in revenues 
and a 4% decline in EBITDA. I am pleased to report that, 
more recently, passenger numbers at UK airports have begun 
to stabilise and this is encouraging. During 2009 we opened 
five new airport sites – four at Aberdeen airport and one at 
Manchester airport. In addition, we redeveloped a site at 
Heathrow Terminal 4 which is now trading as the “Bridge 
Bar”. These new sites are trading very well and are expected 
to deliver strong returns. We plan to open two to four new 
airport sites during 2010. 
Overall, this is another excellent set of results – the Group 
continued to grow its estate with quality openings, increase 
earnings and dividends, generate high levels of cash and 
significantly reduce net debt. This strong performance was 
the result of the hard work, expertise and dedication of our 
Directors, senior management and staff. On behalf of the 
Board I would like to record our thanks to all of them. 
John Jackson, one of our non-executive Directors, has 
decided not to stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM. 
John has been with the Company for 13 years and I would 
like to thank him, on behalf of the Board, for his important 
contribution during that time and we wish John well for the 
future. Recruitment of a new non-executive Director is 
progressing very well and a further announcement will be 
made in due course.
We have started the current year well with like-for-like sales 
growth for the first nine weeks of the year 1% ahead of 2009 
levels and this is encouraging. Last year was, without a 
doubt, an exceptionally difficult one for our sector and it is 
clear that TRG demonstrated its resilience. This not only 
enabled the Group to continue to grow earnings and 
cashflows, but also to strengthen its market position further 
and this means that we are well placed to continue our 
progress in 2010 and beyond.
Alan Jackson
Chairman
3 March 2010
A robust  
business  
model and 
distinct market 
positioning
