 10 Ashley House plc Report and accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s statement
Current trading is on track so far in the new financial year and 
our teams are all focused on the year ahead.
Jonathan Holmes, Chief Executive
The delays have led us to look at the cost and structure of  
our business. Our market is continuing to evolve and we are 
developing our business accordingly. We continue to reduce 
costs in certain areas of the business to allow us to reinvest in 
growth areas. 
Acquisitions
At the end of November last year we acquired the business  
and assets of Sapphire Primary Care Developments Limited 
(“Sapphire”) from Lloydspharmacy (“Lloyds”) for a total 
consideration of £7.4m. Sapphire was a developer of primary 
care infrastructure and a competitor of Ashley House. The  
team and pipeline has now been fully and successfully 
integrated into the group and several new project wins  
have followed. 
As part of this acquisition, a pharmacy joint venture was created 
with Lloyds which gives Lloyds first option on pharmacies  
in our pipeline in exchange for a 25% profit share in those 
pharmacies. This also gives the Group opportunities for future 
projects from access to the healthcare teams at Lloydspharmacy 
estate of over 1,650 pharmacies. We have three joint venture 
pharmacies open and we hope to grow this number over the 
coming year. 
At the end of the year the group exchanged on a conditional 
deal to acquire the business of Strategic Property Solutions 
Limited (“SPS”), a developer of community mental health and 
associated infrastructure for which Ashley House has seen an 
increasing demand. The deal is conditional on the granting of 
planning permission on the lead scheme which is expected to 
be achieved in the next few weeks. The acquisition brings us 
experience in a differently funded market as well as the skills 
and expertise to develop our offering into a growing sector.
Business review
This has been a difficult year for Ashley House characterised  
by exceptional delays to projects caused by both political 
uncertainty and budget concerns. Further difficulties were 
experienced as a result of an unsolicited bid approach for  
our property partner AH Medical Properties plc. 
These issues have led to delays though not cancellations and 
projects continue to reach financial close. At the end of April 
2010 we were on site with eight schemes with a total value  
of £20m compared to six in April 2009 with a value of £11m. 
Of the five we reported as delayed at the half year, three have 
now reached financial close and are on site. The remaining two 
are expected to achieve financial close in the coming weeks, 
realising c.£1.5m in cash and enabling construction (and the 
associated revenues) to commence. Our project pipeline has 
grown in recent months to £264m (January £238m, May 
£244m), re-enforcing our belief that our business will benefit 
from the continuing shift of care from secondary to community 
and GP-led settings. 
Our asset management contract with AH Medical Properties plc 
(“AHMP”) has driven strong growth for AHMP, with gross 
assets growing 34% in the year to close to £120m and rental 
revenues growing from £6m to £7m. This strong performance 
has, for the first time, triggered an out-performance fee. In 
support of AHMP, we have agreed to take half the performance 
fee in cash and half in AHMP shares. 
As mentioned in our February trading update, AHMP received 
an unsolicited bid approach during the year which resulted in  
a hiatus in our ability to pass on pipeline schemes to them.  
This approach has recently been withdrawn and the immediate 
need for us to harbour assets on our own balance sheet has 
gone. However, we continue to explore the options open to  
us and our property partners to avoid a repeat of this situation 
in future.  Report and accounts 2010 Ashley House plc 11
Staff
Following the acquisition of Sapphire, it was important that  
the business carried out a small reorganisation to ensure the 
synergies of the acquisition were achieved. As a result of this 
there were a number of redundancies and the closure of offices 
in Newcastle, Abergavenny and Worcester. Our new staff from
the acquisition of Sapphire and SPS are already making a 
valuable contribution to the business. The Board’s thanks go to 
all our people who continue to show their professionalism and 
dedication to the business in these changing times.
Outlook
Despite challenging market conditions our pipeline remains 
strong as we continue Ashley House’s evolution into an estates 
partner for both primary and community health and the wider 
public sector.
Jonathan Holmes
Chief Executive 
5 July 2010
Key performance targets
Whilst the business remains profitable, reported profit before 
tax has fallen. Net assets have grown 19% from £38.7m to 
£46.0m following the acquisitions of Sapphire and SPS. In the 
new financial year we expect to get a significant number of 
schemes (including three from the Sapphire pipeline and one 
from SPS) to reach financial close. We also expect to realise the 
profit on the schemes that we were unable to sell to AHMP at 
the end of the financial year. The factors that reduced the profit 
in this financial year should not be repeated next year providing 
more confidence in the profit numbers for the coming year.  
We have agreed a new client side approach to working within 
LIFT with four of our seven LIFT companies including the two 
biggest in our stable. This will transform our revenues to a  
fee based model and will take hard construction out of our 
results. Construction management revenues will remain. These 
agreements will also lead to some protection on the length  
of time it takes us to convert revenues into cash. Profit next 
year will therefore come from the extended traditional or  
3PD pipeline and from LIFT income both from the client side 
approach and by getting schemes past financial close. This  
will be augmented by the asset management income and 
revenues that will start to come through from the pharmacy 
joint venture.
Quality
We were delighted that we have recently achieved ISO 14001 
accreditation in recognition of the effectiveness of our 
Environmental Management System. In addition, one of our 
Harrow LIFT schemes was recognised with an architectural  
and environment award. We have had ‘Investor in People’ 
status for 3 years which has recently been reconfirmed and  
we gained ISO 9001 accreditation for our management system 
last year. These accreditations are important for our clients  
and stakeholders and demonstrate the professionalism across  
the business.
A strong 
forward  
pipeline
