 06 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Officer’s review of operations
“ Our core objective continues 
to be growth in shareholder 
value and our strategy to 
achieve this is to build a 
business capable of delivering 
long-term, sustainable and 
growing cashflows.”
A global slump, the deepest since the Second World  
War, a credit crunch which threatened to bring down the 
international financial system and, closer to home, six 
consecutive quarters of declining GDP have not provided  
an attractive backdrop for consumer-facing businesses. 
At the start of the 2009 it was apparent that the UK faced  
an unpalatable cocktail of economic contraction, rising 
unemployment and a paucity of consumer and corporate 
credit. We expected our sector to face new and sustained 
pressures which would test the robustness of business 
models. This led us to be cautious about the short-term 
outlook but, at the same time, to be confident that TRG’s 
robust business model, distinct market positioning, prudent 
capital structure, operational discipline (including eschewing 
deep discounting) and clear focus would enable it to 
capitalise on the opportunities which might arise whilst also 
adapting to the more difficult trading conditions which would 
prevail. We did not expect TRG to be immune to the effects  
of the UK recession, rather we expected our business to 
demonstrate resilience. 
And so, in spite of the difficulties caused by the recession,  
I am pleased to report that TRG enjoyed another year of  
good progress. Both of our divisions performed admirably 
with our Leisure division delivering modest profit growth  
and our Concessions division successfully managing an 
extremely challenging airport marketplace to deliver a very 
commendable level of full year profit. Overall, the Group’s 
performance was good with both margins and sales holding 
up well. Despite a 2% contraction in like-for-like sales, total 
sales grew by 4.6%, adjusted pre-tax profits increased by 2% 
and adjusted earnings per share were 5% higher than the 
previous year. Against a challenging backdrop, this represents 
a very satisfactory result. 
The TRG business model and rationale
Our core objective continues to be growth in shareholder 
value and our strategy to achieve this is to build a business 
capable of delivering long-term, sustainable and growing 
cashflows. 2009 was a year in which business models were 
severely tested and I am pleased to report that, once again, 
we have successfully converted our growing profits into  
cash at a very healthy rate. TRG’s business model enables 
the Group to grow in a predominately organic and highly 
value-accretive way, funded from internally generated funds.  Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 07
Our touchstones are cashflow and return on investment.  
This model has enabled our shareholders to enjoy the 
benefits of high returns on capital, growth in profits and 
cashflow and sizeable income distributions from our 
progressive dividend policy. 
TRG’s primary focus is on edge of town, out of town, rural, 
semi-rural and airport locations. These locations have 
significant barriers to entry, offer good growth prospects  
and enable the Group to generate consistently high returns 
on investment. We occupy leading market positions in each 
of these segments and are well placed to continue to grow  
our business. 
Capex and TRG opening programme
Our philosophy regarding capital expenditure remains 
consistent – we focus on cash generation and on securing  
a return on invested capital at rates ahead of TRG’s  
weighted average cost of capital. We will continue to apply 
the same high levels of analytical rigour, commercial analysis, 
experience and risk adjustment to each capital project that 
we undertake. This approach has served TRG well and we 
do not intend to deviate from it. 
In the light of lower levels of development activity over  
the past eighteen months, TRG has opened fewer new 
restaurants than it normally would and this level of new 
development activity is likely to continue during 2010. 
However, we are confident that, in due course, many of the 
projects which have been postponed or delayed will come to 
fruition and those projects should therefore contribute to our 
forward pipeline. At present, it is still not clear when this might 
be although there are tentative signs of new activity in some 
quarters of the commercial property market and this is 
encouraging. During this period of lower levels of new 
development activity, we will not look to substitute unduly 
risky and/or less attractive projects for those which have 
been delayed or postponed. Rather, we will retain our cash 
until such time as the original projects reappear or other 
equally attractive opportunities become available. In the 
meantime, our surplus cashflow will be applied towards 
reducing debt, as it was during 2009 with a resultant  
£12m reduction in Group net debt. 
Results*
*  Results marked as adjusted are stated excluding non-trading items 
(refer to note 2).
TRG’s trading metrics performed well during 2009: 
• 	 	 T o t a l 	 s a l e s 	 i n c r e a s e d 	 b y 	 5 % 	 ( l i k e - f or - l i k e 	 s a l e s	 
were 2% lower) and we sold 35 million meals;
•	 Adjust ed 	 E BITD A 	 incr e ased 	 b y 	 3 % 	 t o 	 £ 80 m ;
• 	 A d j u s t e d 	 pr e - t a x 	 pr o fi t 	 i n c r e a s e d 	 b y 	 2 % 	 t o 	 £ 5 0 m ;
• 	 	 M a r g i n s 	 h e l d 	 u p 	 w e l l 	 w it h 	 t h e 	 G r o u p 	 op e r a t i n g 	 pr o fi t	
margin just 0.8% lower and the Group pre-tax profit 
margin 0.2% below last year; and 
• 	 	 N e t 	 d e b t , 	 a t 	 0 . 8 x 	 G r o u p 	 a d j u s t e d 	 E BI T D A , 	 f e l l 	 b y 	 £ 1 2 m	 
to £67m.
Frankie & Benny’s (188 units) 
Frankie & Benny’s performed well during 2009. Turnover, 
EBITDA and profit all increased and margins held up strongly. 
Last year we opened 10 new restaurants of which three were 
on non-cinema sites. These are all trading superbly and are 
set to deliver strong returns. During the year we focused  
our efforts towards our customers with very close attention  
to the variety of offering, price point, hospitality and service 
standards. As with all of our brands, we eschewed deep 
discounting and this helped to produce a very satisfactory 
profit performance. We anticipate opening between seven 
and eleven new Frankie & Benny’s restaurants during 2010.
Leisure
2009 2008
Total revenue £353.6m £329.0m
Operating profit £69.1m £69.0m
Operating margin 19.5% 21.0%
Focus on  
our customers  
by providing 
excellent value  
and service 08 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009
Chiquito (63 units)
Chiquito produced a solid performance during 2009, 
although profits were a little below the level of the prior year. 
Profit margins were adversely impacted by two factors: firstly, 
the introduction of a new lunchtime menu which was priced 
at a very competitive level and also as a result of food input 
cost increases which we did not pass on to customers. 
During the year we opened three new restaurants – the 
performance of these restaurants has been superb and we 
expect all of them to deliver very strong returns. We expect  
to open two to five new Chiquito restaurants during 2010. 
Pub restaurants (42 units)
Overall, our Pub restaurant business had a good year. Those 
Pub restaurants located in the North West of England traded 
very well, without exception. Trading in the South East was 
more variable, with some very good performers and others 
where results were less buoyant. 
As noted in our interim report we have embarked on a 
programme of aligning the majority of the Pub restaurants 
towards a less formal (Brunning & Price) style of operation. 
This programme commenced in the summer of 2009 and will 
continue this year. The results of these changes have been 
very encouraging with significant improvements in trading 
being secured. By the end of 2010 we will have substantially 
concluded this programme and we are also looking forward 
to adding some additional Pub restaurants during the year. 
Currently, we expect to open between two and three new 
Pub restaurants in 2010 and, as we have previously indicated, 
we believe that further opportunities to accelerate the growth 
of our Pub restaurant business will arise in the future.  
In the meantime, we will look to steadily add to our Pub  
restaurant estate. 
Garfunkel’s (22 units) 
Garfunkel’s performed superbly during 2009 finishing with a 
very strong final quarter. Most of our Garfunkel’s restaurants 
trade from prominent locations in Central London and they 
enjoyed a strong and sustained trade throughout the year 
and I am pleased to report that this trend continues. 
Revenues and margins grew strongly and this resulted in a 
double digit growth in EBITDA and profit. During the second 
half we opened a new Garfunkel’s restaurant on Tottenham 
Court Road. It is trading strongly and is set to deliver  
excellent returns. During 2010 we expect to open two  
new Garfunkel’s restaurants. 
Chief Executive Officer’s review of operations continued
Sticking to our 
areas of expertise Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 09
Our Concessions division, which operates at eight of the  
UK’s principal airports, faced very tough trading conditions 
throughout 2009. Passenger numbers (“pax”) in UK airports 
fell by 7.5% over the course of 2009 with some of the larger 
airports suffering falls of up to 12%. The decline in pax 
started towards the end of 2008 and, as I indicated in last 
year’s review, we expected 2009 to be a tough year for  
our Concessions division. In anticipation of these tougher 
conditions we took steps to limit the adverse impact of lower 
levels of trade primarily by rigorous control of our operations 
and cost base. These steps, combined with the turnover-
based rental model under which our airport business 
operates, meant that we were able to manage the downturn 
in trade successfully. As a result, I am pleased to report that 
our Concessions division produced a creditable level of 
EBITDA of £15.9m (2008: £16.6m) and a profit of £11.0m 
(2008: £12.7m). Although these are below the prior year level, 
they demonstrate both the resilient nature of our Concessions 
business and also the benefits of rigorous operational and 
cost controls. 
During the year we opened five new airport sites, four at 
Aberdeen airport and one at Manchester airport. In addition, 
we redeveloped a site at Heathrow Terminal 4, which is now 
trading as the “Bridge Bar”. These new sites are trading very 
well and are expected to deliver strong returns. We plan to 
open two to four new airport sites during 2010. 
Whilst we do not anticipate a rapid increase in pax during 
2010, we are encouraged by the recent positive trend. 
Additionally, we believe that a secular shift away from 
full-service travel towards low cost travel has been hastened 
during these more straitened times and this bodes well for 
TRG. In the medium and longer-term we are confident that 
our market-leading position and expertise in this segment 
means that we are well placed to capitalise on the growth 
that will, in due course, resume. 
Building a  
business capable  
of delivering long 
term sustainable 
and growing 
cashflows
Concessions (52 units)
2009 2008
Total revenue £82.2m £87.3m
Operating profit £11.0m £12.7m
Operating margin 13.4% 14.6% 10 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009
Market dynamics and the economy
Eating out has become an increasingly popular pastime for 
large parts of the UK population in recent years with growth 
trending at levels ahead of changes in GDP and we remain 
confident that the prospects for our market are positive. 
Socio-economic factors, such as an ageing population, more 
females in work and levels of disposable income significantly 
higher than in previous generations augur well for our 
industry. Eating out, particularly at our popular price points 
(£10-£16 spend per head), is a relatively “small ticket” item for 
most people and for many it has become a habitual part of 
their lives and something that they are reluctant to give up. 
Nevertheless, eating out represents, to a significant degree, 
discretionary spend and as such can be flexed according to 
consumers’ disposable income and confidence. It would 
therefore be naïve to assume that our business is impervious 
to the recessionary forces and poor economic backdrop. 
Over the past eighteen months, the reaction of many 
companies within our sector has been to discount selling 
prices. In many cases these discounting programmes have 
been deep both in terms of the level and duration. “Buy one 
get one free” promotions have become commonplace and 
continue to be used frequently. However, TRG has taken a 
different approach; eschewing deep discounting, our focus 
has been directed very much towards our customers, 
concentrating on value, range of choice across price points, 
service and standards. 
To date, TRG has demonstrated a level of resilience and 
popularity with diners that has enabled it to continue to grow 
revenues and profits and, at the same time, deliver high 
margins – we are determined to continue this. There are a 
number of factors that have enabled TRG to withstand the 
economic downturn. These include our distinct market 
positioning in segments with lower supply-side risk, our price 
points (and avoiding the deep discounting that has pervaded 
large parts of the market), offerings which have wide appeal 
to most socio-economic groups and a commitment to 
delivering great hospitality and service to our customers. 
The UK’s macro-economic landscape has taken on some 
new and unusual features over the past twelve months. 
Faced with the threat of a recession becoming a depression 
(and all of the concomitant long-term deflationary damage 
that would be implied) our authorities, along with those of all 
of the leading economies, embarked upon unprecedented 
levels of monetary and fiscal stimulation. This included a 
Keynesian style uplift in public sector spending which has 
contributed to an increase in the level of national debt and 
involved running a budget deficit above 12% of UK GDP;  
this represents a post-war high. Additionally, an exceptionally 
loose monetary policy was pursued and this was further 
augmented through a £200bn quantitative easing 
programme. This resulted in interest rates remaining low  
and a bank rate of just 0.5%; the lowest since records  
began in 1694. Whilst these unprecedented measures 
appear to have averted a depression, positive impacts  
in terms of employment, consumption and growth have,  
so far, been fairly limited. 
There are two key macro-economic variables which 
significantly impact our business – interest rates and 
unemployment. Over the past year, unemployment has  
risen together with its equally corrosive bedfellow, the fear  
of unemployment. Combined, these two blights can have a 
dramatic effect on confidence, consumption and household 
spending and this effect has manifested itself clearly over  
the past fifteen months. For whilst those households where 
the breadwinners have remained in work have enjoyed an 
increase in disposable income, as a result of low interest rates 
and lower inflation, this has not translated into significant 
increases in consumer spend. Rather, households have used 
this excess income to pay down debt or to build up savings 
and this has been reflected in a sizeable increase in the 
savings ratio. This pattern of behaviour is similar to that  
which took place following the economic downturn in the 
early 1990s. 
Chief Executive Officer’s review of operations continued Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 11
An end to rising unemployment and a renewed confidence  
in job prospects within the UK will, we believe, represent a 
significant point of upturn for consumer-facing businesses. 
For many of our customers, unemployment and short-time 
working (or the fear of these) acts as a disincentive to spend. 
If, however, people feel that their jobs are secure they are 
more likely to spend, including on eating out, even if interest 
rates are higher. 
So what are the implications for consumer-facing 
businesses? In the short-term much will depend upon the 
timing and impact of the exit from the monetary and fiscal 
stimuli and in turn this is likely to be impacted by the outcome 
of the general election. At some point interest rates are likely 
to rise and it is noteworthy that recent statistics indicate that 
inflation remains above target. More fundamentally perhaps  
is how the fiscal malaise is treated. A budget deficit at the 
current levels is not sustainable and the corrective forces 
which will be brought to bear to rectify this are not very 
palatable. A resumption of economic growth will certainly  
play its part in closing the gap and, although current forecasts 
indicate below trend growth in 2010, this is forecast to return 
towards trend in 2011. In the short term, this means two 
things are likely – higher taxes (probably both direct and 
indirect) and lower levels of government spend. Whilst neither 
of these are attractive for the consumer, if the timing and 
nature of these exit actions are such that the private  
sector takes up some of the spare capacity created, and 
unemployment does not materially increase, it is likely that  
the result will be a further period of tough but, for those 
businesses with sound business models and robust finances, 
manageable conditions. It is against this backdrop that  
we have framed our plans for the year ahead. 
Future prospects
At the end of 2008 and in early 2009, we were on the verge  
of a severe economic depression and there was virtually no 
forward visibility. Now, however, we have a clearer picture  
of the issues that have to be faced and, to a degree, a 
quantification of those issues. The UK economy has moved 
away from a period of fear of a depression towards one of 
austerity, and we will have to continue to carefully manage  
our way through this. I am confident that we will successfully 
do so.
Beyond the short-term, the challenging economic backdrop 
is likely to have a cathartic effect on the supply side of  
our sector. The reasons for this are two-fold: firstly, some 
operators will withdraw or significantly downscale their plans 
and secondly, it is likely, for some time, to deter new entrants. 
Combined, these factors should act as a brake on restaurant 
supply and the positive impact of this is likely to be felt for 
some time. 
Looking forward, our company is well placed to benefit  
from economic growth, when it resumes. We have a robust 
business model, distinct market positions, a strong balance 
sheet and we are well positioned to continue our expansion. 
These factors, combined with the efforts of all of our people 
enabled the Group to produce good results last year despite 
an extremely challenging marketplace and in 2010 we will 
continue to:
•	 	 Stick 	 t o 	 our 	 ar e as 	 o f 	 e x pe r tise ;
• 	 	 F o c u s 	 o n 	 o u r 	 c u s t om e r s 	 b y 	 pr o v i d i n g 	 e x c e l l e n t 	 v a l u e	 
and service;
• 	 	 M a i n t a i n 	 hi g h 	 s t a n d a r ds 	 o f 	 op e r a t i o na l 	 e f fi c i e n c y	 
and execution;
• 	 	 C a r e f ul l y 	 c o n t r o l 	 o u r 	 c o s t s ;	
• 	 	 A dd 	 hi g h 	 qu a l it y 	 n e w 	 r e s t a u r a n t s 	 t o 	 o u r 	 por t f o l i o ; 	 a n d
•	 	 Con tinue 	 our 	 f ocus 	 on 	 c ash flo w 	 and 	 r e tur ns .
By so doing, our aim is to continue to strengthen our market 
positions and deliver long-term and sustainable profitable 
growth. We have an outstanding team of people at TRG  
of whom a great deal was asked in 2009. Yet again, they 
responded magnificently and I am grateful to all of them.  
I am confident that they will put in every effort to ensure  
that we deliver another good performance this year. 
Andrew Page
Chief Executive Officer
3 March 2010
 
