 16 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2014 
Results
I am pleased to report another strong performance by 
your Company. For the year to 31 December 2014, profit 
before tax, exceptional items, amortisation and share-based 
payment charges was £12.0 million, a year-on-year increase 
of 20% (2013: £10.0 million). Turnover was £67.5 million 
(2013: £53.6 million), with a large part of the year-on-year 
increase reflecting the effect of acquisitions made in both 
2013 and 2014. Earnings per share on an adjusted basis were 
up 17% at 12.3 pence (2013: 10.5 pence). A final dividend 
of 1.6p is recommended, giving a total dividend for 2014 of 
2.4p, up 26% (2013: 1.9p).
Strategy
We aim to be a market leader in the segments in which 
we operate, and to offer truly national coverage across 
mainland Britain. Document storage provides a strong 
source of predictable, recurring revenues, as the volume 
of documents requiring storage tends not to vary with the 
economic climate, nor with advances in technology. In all 
our business streams, particularly records management, 
customers tend to retain their existing suppliers, and 
only infrequently change suppliers due to the complexity 
and disruption of switching. This means market share 
and revenue growth above the long-term organic growth 
rate is often best achieved through acquisition. This way, 
we can also offer customers with national presence the 
opportunity to consolidate their supplier base. We have a 
proven record of acquiring and integrating businesses, and 
creating efficiencies of scale with a commensurate increase 
in profitability. 
We have also been successful in increasing the range 
of services we supply to our customer base, which was 
earlier limited to records management and scanning. We 
understand what it takes for UK offices to work well, and 
we understand the requirements of our customers, who 
in the main are the IT and facilities managers responsible 
for keeping their offices running smoothly. As all our 
activities have this similar channel to market, once we gain 
a customer we focus on retaining them through exceptional 
customer service and cross-selling the services we offer, 
thereby helping them achieve their objectives. Over the 
last three years we have invested substantial management 
time in establishing a Group-wide customer relationship 
management system in support of this.
2014 was another  
key year in 
the strategic 
development  
of the Group.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
 
RELOCOM® 
Multi-site Server relocation 
Relocom undertook the task, for one of the UK’s leading 
managed IT service providers, of relocating three data 
centres to one new 88,000 sq ft facility in south-east 
England. The project included moving new and existing 
clients to the new facility, and was structured in multiple 
weekend phases of up to 100 servers at a time, to ensure 
business continuity. 
Strong, predictable 
and high customer 
retention profile
recurring 
revenues 
16 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2014  17 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2014 
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
As a result of building on our records management 
activities, we have steadily diversified into related markets 
and increased our market share through a combination 
of acquisition and investment in sales, locations and 
technology. Overall we aim to consolidate those UK office 
services where there are benefits of scale and consistency 
of demand.
In summary, and as I noted last year, we have clearly 
identified the characteristics of the areas in which we 
operate and seek to operate:
• A strong element of recurring revenues
• A degree of operational complexity which enables good 
margins to be achieved
• A similar channel to market: typically through our 
customers’ facilities managers or IT managers
• Services where customers appreciate that it is neither 
desirable nor practical to switch away from a well-
performing supplier
• A channel to market where we can maximise our cross-
selling opportunities through our Group-wide customer 
relationship management system.
Trading
The Document Management division performed well 
with the core records management activity continuing to 
demonstrate the strength of its robust operational and 
financial model. The division’s turnover was £37.4 million 
(2013: £27.7 million) and operating profit was £11.5 million 
(2013: £10.3 million). The decline in operating margin 
is largely attributable to the acquisition of businesses, 
particularly Cintas and Cannon Confidential, whose 
operating margins were much lower than those achieved 
in our existing operations – as their integration continues 
their operating margins are being significantly improved. 
In Records Management overall box growth, excluding 
acquisitions, totalled just over 6% (2013: 5%) The effect of 
strong new box growth, especially towards the end of the 
year, and good organic growth was partially offset by higher 
than anticipated destruction rates. Restore Shred continued 
to show strong organic growth, with its overall revenue 
growth significantly enhanced following the acquisition of 
Cannon Confidential. Restore Scan operated satisfactorily; 
this business stream now largely comprises Cintas’s 
scanning business. 
The Relocations division benefited from an upturn  
in market conditions as well as further operational 
improvements. The division’s turnover was £30.1 million 
(2013: £25.9 million) and operating profit was £3.3 million 
(2013: £2.2 million). These figures include Relocom, whose 
results are now consolidated into the Group’s results 
following the acquisition by the Group of a majority stake 
in Relocom during the year. The major constituent of the 
division is Harrow Green, the UK’s leading office relocation 
business, where revenues were ahead by 7% year-on-year 
and operating margins increased sharply because of tighter 
controls. Relocom, which during the year worked more 
closely with Harrow Green, performed well, while Restore  
IT Efficient continued to perform satisfactorily. 
Head Office costs increased to £1.9 million (2013: £1.6 
million) reflecting the increased size of the Group and a 
higher level of corporate activity than the prior year.
Corporate transactions
2014 was another key year in the strategic development 
of the Group. The Cintas acquisition significantly increased 
our share of the UK’s records management market and 
gave us a substantial presence in the UK scanning market. 
The Cannon Confidential acquisition greatly enhanced our 
capability and coverage within the UK shredding market. 
These businesses are becoming strongly profitable as a 
result of their integration into the Group as a whole.
In total, six acquisitions were made in the year:
• In April, we acquired Magnum Secure, a records 
management business operating from 2 locations in 
North East England, for £3.2 million. The post-acquisition 
management involved a significant cost-saving exercise.
• In April, we acquired a majority stake in Relocom, the  
IT relocation business in which we were previously a  
50 per cent shareholder. This has enabled us to integrate 
Relocom’s activities more closely with Harrow Green to 
improve profitability.
• In May, we acquired Filebase, a records management 
business also in North East England, for a consideration 
of £0.4 million. Operational changes have been made to 
increase the profitability of the business.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 18 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2014 
• In June, we acquired the trade and assets of Cannon 
Confidential, a loss-making shredding business operating 
from 4 sites in mainland Britain, for £0.9 million. The 
integration has been completed and the outcome has been 
transformational in providing Restore Shred with critical 
mass, additional locations and increased profit.
• In June, we acquired Papersafe, a small records 
management business, and subsequently transferred its 
boxes in store to our sites.
• In October, we acquired Cintas UK, one of the larger  
records management and scanning businesses in the 
UK, for £26.6 million, partly funded by a share placing. 
The business was operating at low profitability but there 
are significant synergies which we are realising to bring 
operating margins towards those achieved by Restore. 
In addition, on 1 January 2015, we acquired Ancora,  
a records management business in East Anglia, for  
£0.5 million, giving us coverage in an area in which we  
were under-represented. 
Funding 
Net debt at the year-end was £30.9 million (2013: 
£16.0 million). The increase in debt reflects the cost of 
acquisitions made during the year. In March we announced 
a refinancing of our bank debt with Barclays, comprising 
a 5-year revolving credit facility of £30 million, with an 
additional £7.5 million accordion facility available. Following 
the acquisition of Cintas, this facility was increased by 
a further £15 million. The Cintas acquisition was partly 
funded by the placing of 7.1 million shares at 210p.
The current bank facility, coupled with internal cash 
generation, gives us considerable scope to continue to 
develop the Company through acquisitions.
Dividends
Your Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.6p, 
payable on 9 July 2015 to shareholders on the register on  
12 June 2015. This gives a total dividend for the year of 
2.4p, a 26% year-on-year increase. It remains the Board’s 
firm intention to follow a progressive dividend policy.
Board
During 2014, we appointed three new non-executive 
Directors. In January, Stephen Davidson joined the Board, 
bringing his investment banking and public company 
experience. In June, James Wilde joined the Board, bringing 
his extensive experience of the business-to-business service 
sector. In September, Sharon Baylay joined the Board, 
bringing her experience of business services, media and 
technology. 
Sir Paul Stephenson and John Forrest stepped down from 
the Board during the year. I thank them for their support 
and commitment which played an important role in the 
development of the Group.
We have a very strong and capable Board, particularly 
for an AIM-listed company. For many reasons, not least 
the quality of our customer base and the breadth of our 
shareholder base, we regard good corporate governance as 
key to the ongoing success of the Company. The quality of 
our Board reflects this.
People
As I have previously noted, the success of a provider of 
business services depends first and foremost upon the 
people who work in the organisation. Our key principle 
is that power and responsibility go hand in hand. Our 
people know what is expected of them and we give them 
the power to make their own decisions. Accordingly, they 
accept responsibility for their actions. This is crucial in a 
business where exceptional customer service is the only 
way to satisfy and retain customers.
We achieve this success through well-motivated, capable 
people doing their jobs to the best of their ability. I thank 
all our people for their commitment over the last year and 
look forward to them continuing to share in the success 
of the Group. In addition, I am delighted to welcome the 
people who have joined us through acquisitions made over 
the year.
Outlook
The current year has started satisfactorily.
Our principal near-term focus in 2015 is to integrate into the 
Group the acquisitions made in 2014 and to drive operating 
margins in the integrated businesses towards those we have 
historically achieved. We are making good progress in this 
and we are realising the efficiencies anticipated at the time 
of acquisition. At the same time, our established businesses 
continue to trade strongly.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT CONTINUED 19 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2014 
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
Our Document Management division has started the year 
well. In our Records Management business, the improving 
trend in new box intake seen towards the end of last year 
has continued. We believe this reflects our significant 
investment in our sales operations over the last two years. 
The integration of the Cintas business is proceeding to plan, 
with significant cost reductions being achieved. We are 
also steadily rationalising our property portfolio to increase 
capacity usage towards our target of at least 90 per cent 
such that we are able to achieve the appropriate operating 
margins. Restore Scan, which primarily comprises the Cintas 
scanning business, has had an excellent start to the year, 
having secured several large contract wins and increased its 
base of recurring revenues. Restore Shred has successfully 
integrated Cannon Confidential, where we are achieving 
improved operating margins on increasing revenues.
Our Relocations division has started the year well. The 
core Harrow Green business has seen strong year-on-year 
growth in revenues, particularly in London, and we expect 
good opportunities to become available later in the year. 
The mobilisation of our recently-awarded contract with 
Carillion Amey for furniture moving and storage services to 
the Ministry of Defence is progressing smoothly and to plan. 
Relocom and Restore IT Efficient are operating much more 
closely within the division and this is generating both new 
business and improved efficiencies. 
The Group remains focused on the UK office services 
market. This is an attractive sector in which we hold an 
increasingly important position as a key supplier. We 
have a well-balanced business which continues to have 
considerable scope to grow, both organically and through 
acquisition. We have a strong record of creating shareholder 
value which we intend to continue. I look forward to 
another exciting year in the development and performance 
of your company.
Sir William Wells
Chairman
24 March 2015    
