 20 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2014 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
These are the key results from the ongoing businesses which 
are included in the fuller statement set out under ‘Profit 
Before Tax’ on page 22.
Document Management Division
Trading in Document Management was steady in 2014 
with adjusted operating profits increasing by £1.2 million 
to £11.5 million. Turnover increased from £27.7 million 
to £37.4 million. The majority of the increase in revenue 
derived from acquisitions made during the year, although 
these had a limited effect on profitability.
Records management comprises the bulk of these results 
and its performance remained robust. Organic box 
growth, defined as increase in box numbers from existing 
customers, continued to run at 7 per cent. New box 
growth, at 7 per cent, was encouragingly higher than in 
previous years and we believe this reflects the benefits of 
restructuring and the investment we have made in our sales 
operations. Box destructions and permanent retrievals were 
higher than expected so that overall net box growth (before 
acquisitions) was 6%. Average rates per box remained 
stable over the year.
Much of our operational focus was on integrating new 
acquisitions which had been operating at negligible 
profitability at the point of acquisition. We have a clear 
business model and we have been effective in making 
changes which bring the margins of acquired businesses 
up to our customary operating margins. This is achievable 
and underway in the records management businesses 
acquired in the year. Cintas UK was the largest of these 
and a primary reason behind its low profitability was the 
comparatively low level of boxes stored as a percentage of 
storage capacity. By moving out of inappropriate sites and 
filling underutilised sites with new boxes, we are sharply 
increasing capacity utilisation and profitability. Profitability 
is further enhanced by material cost synergies. 
Alongside additional capacity from acquired businesses, 
we continue to develop our existing facilities. The newly-
developed district in our freehold underground site in 
Wiltshire is on its way to full capacity and we have taken 
on 3 further hardened aircraft shelters at Upper Heyford. 
We have also continued to invest in our IT infrastructure, 
mostly to ensure that our systems can absorb further 
acquisitions and that the customer-facing aspects of 
acquired businesses remain consistent.
Restore Scan had a stable and marginally profitable year 
but for much of the year was over-dependent on large 
one-off projects. The acquisition of Cintas UK’s scanning 
operations in October transformed our activities in this 
space. It is a strong business on a far larger scale than 
our pre-existing scanning business, which has now been 
integrated into the Cintas business. The combined business 
now trades as Restore Scan. 
Restore Shred, our secure shredding and recycling business, 
continued to trade strongly with an encouraging level of 
new business wins. The acquisition of Cannon Confidential 
in June sharply increased the scale of the business and 
provided it with more operating sites and increased its on-
site shredding capability. This has reduced the percentage 
of revenue spent on transport costs and will benefit 
margins in 2015 and beyond.
Relocations
The Relocations division recorded adjusted operating profits 
for the year of £3.3 million (2013: £2.2 million) on revenue 
of £30.1 million (2013: £25.9 million). The uplift in revenues 
reflected increased turnover at Harrow Green and the 
consolidation of £1.6 million of revenues at Relocom.
The core Harrow Green business showed another strong 
year-on-year improvement in revenues, as well as an increase 
in operating margins. Market conditions steadily improved in 
the London market where the office relocation market was 
increasingly active. The regional branches also performed 
strongly with several major projects taking place such as 
North Bristol NHS Trust and The University of Manchester 
Library. The recently awarded contract, estimated to have 
a contract value of £2.5m per annum, for work with the 
Ministry of Defence made a contribution in December, its 
first month of operation. Global Moving Solutions traded 
satisfactorily during the year.
Relocom increased both its revenues and operating margins. 
It is working more closely with Harrow Green and Restore IT 
Efficient which should enhance revenues in future.
Restore IT Efficient processed more equipment than in the 
prior year but a fall in the price of recycled equipment meant 
that revenues and profits were broadly flat year-on-year. 
As with Relocom, we expect the business to benefit from 
working more closely with other parts of the division. 
Most of our customers have a demand 
for most of our services...and the 
strength of our customer base is an 
opportunity for future development 21 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2014 
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
Customers
We continued to develop our Group Customer Relationship 
management system during the year, with all sales people 
across the Group now using the same system. This greatly 
facilitates cross-selling as most of our customers have 
a demand for most of our services and the customer’s 
procurement manager or team is often common to all our 
activities. Much of our sales effort is focused on increasing our 
share of existing customers’ service requirements.
We recently conducted an exercise which showed that our 
penetration of customers in various groupings was:
• 43% of FTSE 100 companies
• 64% of top 50 UK legal firms
• 80% of top 25 UK accountancy firms
• 29% of local authorities in England, Scotland and Wales
• 27% of UK National Health Trusts.
I believe this represents an excellent indication of the  
strength of our business and of the Group’s opportunity for 
future development.
Charles Skinner
Chief Executive  
Revenue 
2014  
£m
Revenue 
 2013  
£m
Adjusted* 
Operating 
Profit  
2014  
£m
Adjusted* 
Operating 
Profit 
2013 
£m
Document 
Management 37.4 27.7 11.5 10.3
Relocations 30.1 25.9 3.3 2.2
Head  
Office costs – – (1.9) (1.6)
Total 67.5 53.6 12.9 10.9
Key performance table
Revenue (£m)
Relocations Division
Adjusted Operating Profit (£m)
Revenue (£m)
Document Management Division
Adjusted Operating Profit (£m)
+35%
+12%
+16%
+50%
 13 14
 13 14
 13 14
 13 14
37.4 11.5 30.1 3.3
27.7 10.3 25.9 2.2
* before exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets and share based 
payments charge.
