 Reuters Group PLC Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 03
Chairman’s statement
In my first full year as Chairman, I have had the opportunity to travel
around the Reuters world, meeting many of our people and customers.
I am greatly encouraged by what I have seen and heard – a business
regaining its confidence, and that of its customers, and well placed 
to enter a new phase of growth. I am humbled by the courage and
conviction shown by our people, particularly our journalists who
continue to operate in areas where the threat of violence and arbitrary
detention is the norm. In 2005, we mourned the deaths of Waleed
Khaled, who was shot and killed in Iraq, and Rashid Khaled who died
there too following a car crash in Basra. We remain intensely troubled
by the difficult circumstances of journalists in war zones and continue
to press for a better model of engagement between the media and
the military.
I am privileged to lead a world-class Board, which encompasses 
a broad range of backgrounds and experiences. I am a passionate
believer in the power of diversity to enhance decision making. The
unique outlook each Board member brings is undoubtedly the Board’ s
greatest asset. As a Board, we have worked hard to develop a healthy
relationship with management, characterised by constructive challenge
and support. Tom Glocer is an exceptional Chief Executive.
The Board and management have worked together to define 
a coherent strategic framework. The resulting strategy for growth
builds on our core strengths in content and transaction services and
addresses our customers’ critical needs. We must also continue to
transform our core business, by pursuing greater efficiency and
simplicity in everything we do.
In a world where trust is scarce, the Reuters brand, which has trust at
its heart, resonates deeply. It is our challenge to grow the company 
to fill the space occupied by the brand. Reuters is unique in that it is
governed by the Reuters Trust Principles, which commit us to act with
integrity, independence and without bias. These principles are not
restricted to the collection and dissemination of the news. They inform
every decision we make, whether it concerns our customers, suppliers,
staff or the communities in which we operate. A responsible approach to
business is not optional. Without responsibility there is no sustainability.
For over 150 years, Reuters has been relentless in the pursuit of truth.
We have built one of the world’s great brands. Now I am confident
that we are on course to enjoy a new phase of growth.
Niall FitzGerald, KBE
Chairman
I am greatly encouraged by what 
I have seen and heard – a business
regaining its confidence, and that 
of its customers, and well placed 
to enter a new phase of growth.
