 When change is a constant, adaptability
carries a premium. A stronger Reuters has
emerged from a period of fundamental
change – in our products, in how we 
serve our customers and in how we are
organised. But the continuous and rapid
evolution of our markets means we 
must become even more agile to sustain 
a competitive edge. Greater focus and
radical simpliﬁcation are crucial objectives
for 2007. I am conﬁdent that Tom Glocer
and his team, in partnership with the Board,
will address these challenges efﬁciently.
In the same way companies must evolve 
with their markets, business must evolve 
with society. Globalisation has driven
unprecedented wealth creation, but not
without a price. Political, economic, social
and environmental imbalances threaten
global stability, and the very conditions that
have allowed global business to ﬂourish. 
Society expects business to assume 
greater responsibility towards people 
and the communities in which it operates. 
It is entitled to expect business leadership 
that combines optimum returns for
shareholders with responsibility for social
and environmental performance. Companies
are unlikely to succeed if society fails.
The Board must bring an external
perspective to the company. T o do so, 
the Board must reﬂect the diversity of the
society in which the business operates. 
I am proud of the range of experiences 
and backgrounds represented on the
Reuters Board. In 2006 we announced that
Nandan Nilekani, CEO of Infosys, would 
join the Reuters Board in January 2007.
Equally, the Board must continually scan the
external horizons. In 2006, the Board and
executive management met in Palo Alto,
California to gain a ﬁrst-hand understanding
of new technology trends and evolving
business models. High-performing boards
need to evaluate their own performance.
Last year we completed a comprehensive
Board effectiveness review, and
implementing the recommendations is 
an important objective for 2007 .
The Reuters Trust Principles are at the heart
of our responsibility to society. They commit
us to independence, integrity and freedom
from bias in the gathering and dissemination
of news and information. Guided by these
principles, I am conﬁdent we can provide the
growth our shareholders expect, and fulﬁl
the role society demands. They also attract
and motivate the outstandingly talented
people we need to build our future.
Niall FitzGerald
Chairman
The continuous and rapid
evolution of our markets
means we must become 
even more agile to sustain 
a competitive edge.
Chairman’s statement
Reuters Group PLC Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006
14
