 04
Rethink Group  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
The year to 31 December 2013 has brought a 
number of significant changes to Rethink.
Chief Executive’s statement 
Introduction
We have embarked on a journey to deliver the Group’s redefined 
strategy and build deeper client relationships through the 
provision of talent solutions to our key vertical markets of 
Business and Technology, and Life Sciences and Pharmaceuticals. 
In line with the new focussed strategy, in November 2013 the 
Group divested of Aiimi, a technology consulting operation, 
which was concluded to be non-core. The sale recognised a net 
gain on disposal of £0.2m.
Overall Group revenues from continuing operations increased 
to £111.7m in 2013 (2012: £87.3m), representing growth of 28.0% 
and NFI also grew, from £18.2m to £19.6m. With a clear focus 
now in place and momentum building, we have a platform on 
which to develop a more sustainable business that should reward 
all stakeholders in the future.
The Group’s two reportable divisions are Talent Management 
and Recruitment. 
Talent Management
Our Talent Management business is driven by clients with 
whom Rethink has strong, long-term relationships, underpinned 
by fixed-term agreements to provide either contract and/or 
permanent recruitment services. Often these agreements are 
augmented by a range of consulting and managed services. 
Rethink offers a range of Talent Management services, ranging 
from employer branding, employee attraction and development, 
through to managed recruitment services and delivery methods, 
including a full Recruitment Process Outsourcing service.
With long-term relationships in place with prestigious 
organisations across a range of sectors, we are building a track 
record that is opening up further opportunities for the Group. 
The highlight for this division was the renewal of a significant 
Talent Management agreement with a major UK retailer for a 
further three years. 
A client’s adoption of Rethink’s Talent Management solutions 
provides measurable ongoing benefits such as improved quality, 
efficiency and better value for money. These are key qualities in 
today’s demanding business environment and are crucial to the 
Group’s ongoing success. 
Revenues for our Talent Management division increased 60.9% to 
£46.0m and represented 41.2% of the Group’s total revenue in 2013. 
NFI increased 28.1% to £5.3m (2012: £4.1m), and contribution 
from ongoing operations increased significantly to £3.9m (2012: 
£2.5m). The further development of this division is a key part of 
our strategy moving forward. 05
Rethink Group  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Rethink
Group
Talent
Management
Recruitment
Recruitment
Solutions
Workforce
Planning
Retention and 
Performance Management
Candidate Attraction
Screening and Assessment
Redeployment
Career Transition
Organisational Design
Resource and 
Demand Planning
Face-to-Face Hiring
On-Boarding
Brand
Engagement
Leadership Development
Reward Talent Programmes
Team Profiling
Performance Management
Induction
Recruitment 
The Recruitment division provides contract, interim, permanent 
and executive search solutions to a wide range of clients 
predominantly in the UK and Ireland, as well as an international 
client base through our operations in Dubai and Singapore. 
The division has 150 consultants across eight offices.
Revenues for the Recruitment business were £65.7m (2012: 
£58.7m), representing 58.8% of the Group’s total revenue in 
2013. NFI increased marginally to £14.3m in the year (2012: 
£14.1m) and contribution from ongoing operations was 
£2.0m (2012: £0.7m). 
The strong turnaround in contribution from the Recruitment 
business is a first step in positioning this division to help drive 
new Talent Management opportunities moving forward. 
Clients
Our client base continues to grow. In 2013 we were pleased to 
announce that we had secured a three-year Talent Management 
contract with Admin Re, a major organisation in the financial 
services sector. 
Our organisation is now clearly focussed on identifying 
opportunities to extend and develop our Recruitment client 
relationships into longer-term contractual commitments. 
We believe that the growth in our Talent Management 
business demonstrates the power of a partnership approach 
to client engagement. 
We have embarked on building a strong portfolio of offerings 
that will enable us to deliver a wider range of value-added 
services to our clients. Consequently, by deepening our 
relationships through our Talent Management services, we will 
become increasingly valuable partners to our clients in the years 
to come.
Steve Wright
Chief Executive Officer
7 April 2014
Group Structure
Rethink Talent Management
