 04 Reuters Group PLC Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005
Chief Executive’s review
To see Tom Glocer, Reuters CEO, answering some key questions, 
visit: www.about.reuters.com/investors
What was the highlight for you in 2005?
The key thing for me is that we went from four years of losing revenue
to revenue growth – that’s really important for our shareholders and
for our employees as well.
Fast Forward has just completed. Did it achieve its objectives?
Our Fast Forward transformation plan has achieved its objectives 
in full. The £440 million in cost savings being delivered in 2006 has
turned Reuters from loss-making to profit, and we have significantly
enhanced our product line, putting out a slew of great products at
year-end. We also improved customer service and built a solid
platform for growth.
Last July the company launched the Core Plus growth
initiatives which you said would strengthen the core business
and accelerate revenue growth. It’s very early, but is that
working as you had hoped?
Yes, there are really good early signs of success in Core Plus. 
There are four initiatives: electronic trading, high-value content, a 
new approach to enterprise-wide sales and new markets. And for 
each one, we have an important milestone or set of milestones we 
can point to, to show that we’re on track to deliver additional 
growth at Reuters.
How do you think our customers are responding to 
those changes?
I judge the customer response in a number of ways:
First, is it coming through in revenues and in sales? The answer is yes
– we’ve seen increases in these lines.
Second, by how they tell Reuters they are feeling – we have a formal
customer satisfaction survey that goes to about 12,000 users and 
that’s shown steady improvement.
And finally, the thing I really like is, I just go out and spend time with
customers. I walk around the trading desks, I talk to our customers,
and they tell me they can see the difference at Reuters.
And what about the product offering at Reuters?
We seek to provide a sensible range of products. We believe that
customers don’t just want a single box at a single price. That said,
Reuters had gotten far too complex, with 1,300 products in the
product line in 2001. What we’ve done is rationalise it, reduced the
number of products and platforms, and then put fit-for-purpose
products out to meet different customer needs.
We’re returning cash to the market via a share buyback. 
Why was that method chosen above others? 
It’s a tax-efficient strategy and it also allows us to retire shares while
putting out cash, thereby raising the earnings per share for everybody
who remains a shareholder. The Reuters Board looked at a number 
of alternatives and we thought this was the best method, reflecting
our capital needs, the needs of our shareholders and the market value
of Reuters shares.
Looking to 2006, what do you see lying ahead for the company?
I’m very excited about 2006. The key drivers for us will be to deliver 
on our Core Plus investments, to accelerate our revenue growth, to
continue to really focus on customer service and to maintain the good
cost control that we’ve had throughout the last few years.“
What are your ambitions for the Media business?
Reuters has operated a successful wholesale media agency for over 150
years, and we believe we can grow a direct-to-consumer media business
alongside it. Our content and our brand form a compelling offer to
individuals in search of an independent, unbiased view of world events.
Why are electronic trading systems so important to Reuters?
Reuters pioneered electronic trading with the launch of our first Reuters
Monitor Dealing System back in 1981. Since then, we have had a track
record of continuous innovation in this area, right up to the launch 
in 2005 of Reuters Trading for Fixed Income and Reuters Trading for
Foreign Exchange. We see trading moving increasingly to electronic
platforms, so we are investing heavily in this area as part of our Core
Plus strategy.
How is Reuters culture changing?
There are many wonderful aspects of the Reuters culture that underpin
much of the company’s enduring value. However, during Fast Forward
it has been important to introduce a leaner, more performance-driven
aspect to our culture. Corporate cultures do not change overnight,
but I am pleased with the progress we have made to date and confident
we can continue to blend these two aspects of our culture.
Tom Glocer
CEO
We’ve completed the ‘Fix it’ stage of
our strategy, putting our core business
back on track. Reuters is now more
competitive, simpler, more customer-
focused and more efficient.
