 Our goal is to accelerate the growth 
in revenues begun last year while
bringing a greater proportion to the
bottom line in proﬁts.
2006 was a year of considerable
achievement for Reuters. In last year’s
annual report I stated that the key drivers
for 2006 would be “to deliver on our 
Core Plus investments, to accelerate our
revenue growth, to continue to really
focus on customer service and to maintain
the good cost control of the last few
years”. I am very happy to say that we
achieved each of these goals and more. 
During 2006 we raised the pace of our Core
Plus programme, and produced £32 million
of new revenues from the four initiatives:
electronic trading, high-value content, new
enterprise services and new markets. This
permitted us to exceed our 2006 target of
one percentage point of additional revenue
growth from Core Plus. 
In terms of overall revenue growth, we
exceeded market expectations by delivering
6.5% growth at actual rates (4.8% underlying),
which was very gratifying to me personally. 
It was not so long ago that many in the
market, while acknowledging our ability to
cut costs, doubted that we could re-start
growth after a long period of retrenchment. 
2006 was also a year in which our signiﬁcant
investments to transform and simplify the
company began to take shape. These
investments will continue through 2007 with
a focus on making our services more resilient.
Finally, despite the increased investment in
Core Plus growth and transformation activities,
we continued to hold a tight line on cost. 
Looking ahead to 2007
As I write this review we are already well into
2007 – a year that has begun strongly for
Reuters. Our principal goal this year is to
accelerate the growth in revenues begun 
last year while bringing a greater proportion
down to the bottom line in proﬁts. This will be
achieved, in part, as revenues from Core Plus
increase through the year . We’ll also continue
our focus on improving customer service
through investment in Reuters infrastructure
and through instilling a service culture at
Reuters. T owards this goal, I am personally
leading a drive to simplify our processes, 
our technology and our organisation.
In my recent meetings with customers around
the world I have been encouraged both that
general market conditions appear to be
favourable and that the speciﬁc areas we are
targeting under Core Plus are expected to be
in high demand. In particular, the growth of
electronic trading is now indisputable.
Serving both people and machines
Reuters has always served the needs of
individual users in the ﬁnancial community, 
as well as the machines that power their
ﬁrms; however, this distinction is increasingly
important. Reuters suite of trading room
systems, risk management platforms,
enterprise datafeeds and transaction services
is perfectly aligned to the growth in machine-
based activities such as algorithmic trading.
At the same time the human beings who are
CEO’s review
Reuters Group PLC Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006
04 active in the ﬁnancial services industry require
ever-more sophisticated and comprehensive
sets of information and analytics as they seek
to differentiate their performance. Reuters 
is uniquely skilled to serve this twin need.
Managing our portfolio
Capitalising on our strong position in the
Treasury market, Reuters entered into a joint
venture with the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange (CME) in 2006 to launch a new
electronic system to trade foreign currencies.
The venture, called FXMarketSpace, is
launching in March 2007 and will offer the
market the ability to trade foreign exchange
on a cleared, central counterparty basis (like
an exchange) for the ﬁrst time. I view this as 
a great example of Reuters innovative streak 
at work, as well as proof that we will not just
complacently sit and milk our best assets, 
but seek to lead the market in new directions.
We also moved swiftly in 2006 to sell the
majority of our 50% interest in the Factiva
joint venture to our partner Dow Jones. 
We concluded that we could achieve the
most value for our shareholders by selling
this deep online library of content before
competition from free search engines 
eroded Factiva’ s advantage.
Media and journalism
Our Media business performed very well in
2006 across both its agency and consumer
units. In the agency business we beneﬁted 
as Western publishers and broadcasters
retrenched and continued to pull back their
journalists to home base, and newspapers, 
in particular, scrambled to add video to their
websites. Meanwhile, domestic demand in
Asia and the Middle East grew strongly. 
Our direct-to-consumer unit, which mainly
derives its revenues from advertising, carried
on reuters.com and associated mobile and
online properties, grew 39% in 2006.
At the core of what we do at Reuters is the
work of our 2,400 journalists. We increased
our editorial staff by over 130 in 2006 and
produced a slew of exclusives and ‘beats’
from the ongoing war in Iraq, to the World
Cup competition, to the Israel-Lebanon
conﬂict. In my presentation to the Israel
Business Conference, excerpted on Reuters
corporate website, I discuss how Reuters
responded to a serious breach of our news
photography standards which occurred 
in Lebanon. 
The bravery, quality and motivation of
Reuters journalists around the world remain
a great inspiration to me. More generally, it 
is the diversity, intelligence, compassion and
determination of our people that make my
job as CEO so personally rewarding. 
Tom Glocer
CEO
Reuters Group PLC Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006
Business review 05
