 4
I am pleased to present my inaugural report as the ﬁrst Chairman of Revolymer plc. At the outset I
thank the management team who, working together with our advisors, completed the IPO of
Revolymer and listing on the London Stock Exchange’s AIM market on 10 July 2012, and the raising
of over £23 million of net proceeds to fund the business for the coming years.
Although there is much to achieve as a business, the IPO provides us with a ﬁnancial base to do
this, and during the months as a public company since listing we have focused on the reﬁnement
and execution of our business plan, including:
• We have agreed the best commercial strategy for the Company, concluding that our
resources are best deployed by a focus on licensing our portfolio of intellectual property in a
number of product ﬁelds to partners with the expertise, resources and scale to launch and
market products incorporating our technology;
• We have set a 2013 operating plan consistent with this strategy, with very speciﬁc goals for
management;
• We have established appropriate governance and control structures, including a
comprehensive and ongoing business risk assessment and mitigation process, and a medium
term strategic planning cycle; and
• We are beginning to build relationships with private and institutional investors, and we
recognise that this is fundamental to achieving our goals. We aim to achieve this through
face-to-face meetings and a range of other communication channels immediately following
the achievement and announcement of signiﬁcant milestones. We also aim to be highly
receptive to shareholder interactions, either received directly or through our broker. The Notice
of Meeting that will accompany our annual report sets out the business for our ﬁrst AGM and
we actively encourage all our shareholders, large or small, to attend and participate.
We will continue to maintain our focus on these key areas during the year ahead, as more fully
described in the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review.
Governance
Although full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code is not compulsory for AIM
companies, the board has chosen to apply those principles considered appropriate, taking into
consideration Revolymer’s size and the recommendations contained in the QCA guidelines. We
also intend to move towards full compliance over time, and as the business grows and matures.
I believe that the composition of the Board of Directors now provides a wealth of business
experience from the FMCG, chemicals, pharmaceuticals and ﬁnancial sectors upon which the
management team can draw going forward.
Speciﬁcally the Board consists of seven members, of whom ﬁve are Non-executive Directors
including three who are considered independent (including the Chairman). The Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer are Executive Directors, and the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer is also
Company Secretary. The board has also established Audit, Remuneration and Nomination
Committees, with each staffed by Non-executive Directors and chaired by an independent
Non-executive Director.
We shall regularly review the overall performance of the Board to ensure that it remains focussed,
is provided with targets for improvement and meets such targets where possible.
Chairman’s Statement People
Revolymer now employs 30 people (excluding Non-executive Directors) based in our Deeside
facility, most of whom are highly qualiﬁed polymer scientists, focused on product research and
development across our ﬁve business areas and particularly in consumer specialties. Our
employees are critical to our future success and I would like to thank all of them for their hard work
during the year and look forward to their continued commitment to the business.
Looking ahead
Based on the progress made to date and the signiﬁcant market potential for our technologies in a
number of product applications, I believe the outlook for Revolymer is very promising. The business
has an experienced management team and staff, and the proceeds of the IPO provide a
foundation for delivering against our corporate targets. I look forward to seeing Revolymer
capitalise on these opportunities.
John (“Jack”) Keenan
Chairman
5
