 6
2012 has been a signiﬁcant year for Revolymer, with its IPO and listing on AIM in July. On Admission,
our stated strategy was to generate signiﬁcant and growing high quality revenue streams by
licensing our unique technologies to manufacturers and marketers within the global high value
FMCG and other industrial markets. The ﬁnancial resources derived post-IPO, combined with the
technical and business experience of the board, management team and staff, position us well to
deliver on this strategy and this has been and continues to be our over-riding focus.
The Company’s current products and pipeline are based on two core areas of polymer technology
application: moisture management using amphiphilic graft copolymers (such as the Rev7
®
polymer), and encapsulation and controlled release of active substances using a range of polymer
families (such as polyacrylic acid-based polymers).
Demonstrating to the larger players in our target markets that these technologies can improve
performance in speciﬁc product applications, and negotiating and executing commercialisation
licences or other appropriate contracts with them, is a time and resource consuming process.
However, I am pleased to report that we are continuing to progress a signiﬁcant portfolio of
projects with major partners, each of which could potentially culminate in a commercialisation
deal in the near to medium term. The existence of this portfolio provides the Group with a number
of licence opportunities (“multiple shots on goal”) and therefore reduced dependency on a single
product success, serving to mitigate some of the inherent challenges associated with the
development of appropriate commercialisation partnerships.
We summarise below key progress in the various business areas of Revolymer, whilst necessarily
preserving the conﬁdentiality of related business arrangements.
Business Area Review
Consumer Specialties
The consumer specialties business area comprises household products (including for example
laundry and non-laundry cleaning agents), coatings & adhesives (including for example foodstuff
packaging and coatings and sealants used in the construction industry) and personal care
products (including cosmetics, personal hygiene and hair-care). This portfolio represents large
markets where we believe our technology can offer signiﬁcant performance improvement in a
variety of properties of existing marketed products.
All of our technologies in the consumer specialties business area are currently in varying stages of
product development. Our REVCOAT amphiphilic polymer technology has been shown to improve
the performance of certain non-laundry cleaning agents, while our REVBAR laminated barrier
technology is in development to improve packaging for both wet and dry perishable foodstuffs.
Our REVCAP encapsulation technology has been shown to stabilise certain laundry actives in liquid
and new powder formulations, and work is ongoing to optimise release of the actives in the
cleaning cycle. Our REVCARE moisture management technology has also been shown to improve
the properties of certain personal care and cosmetic formulations, such as moisturisation and
perceived softness.
These development programmes are being progressed in partnership with a number of
international FMCG companies through joint development and other collaborative structures that
allow Revolymer to retain the underlying polymer intellectual property as the subject of subsequent
licences. Given the progress that we are making, we are conﬁdent that commercialisation licences
(or equivalent transactions) will be forthcoming from one or more projects and look forward to
announcing signiﬁcant commercial milestones as and when they are achieved.
Chief executive ofﬁcer’s review Nicotine Gum
The private label component of the nicotine gum market offers Revolymer a speciﬁc commercial
opportunity, primarily through partnering our more confectionary like nicotine gum with existing
market players. We announced in July 2012 the ﬁrst sales in Canada of our product through this
private label route, having received regulatory approval in Canada in 2011. However in early
February 2013, we also announced that the Company had received notiﬁcation from Fertin
Pharma A/S and Gumlink A/S of the commencement of patent infringement proceedings against it
in connection with the sale of its nicotine gum in Canada. Following professional advice,
management considers at this stage that there are strong grounds for rebutting this action and we
accordingly intend to defend vigorously the Company’s position. Revolymer will issue further
announcements as appropriate in the event that there are any material developments regarding
this legal action, but understandably we are limited in the comments we can make about ongoing
legal matters. As a business in which intellectual property is central to our value, we of course take
such matters very seriously.
Whilst the Canadian nicotine gum market is relatively small and therefore an appropriate test
market for our product, there is a more signiﬁcant potential private label opportunity in the US. In
October 2012 we were pleased to receive an Investigational Medicinal Products licence in respect
of our nicotine gum and accordingly commenced the planned bioequivalence study to enable
comparison to the market reference product, Nicorette. This study was recently completed in
March 2013, and the ANDA is in the closing stages of drafting, with its ﬁling to be announced in due
course. Once the ANDA is ﬁled, we are advised of an FDA review time of at least two years before
a US launch can be planned, and so the value of this product is likely, subject to regulatory
approval, to be realised in the medium term. We also aim to use the bioequivalence study as a
basis for partnering with private label manufacturers and marketers in other territories, e.g. in
Europe.
Our accelerated release nicotine gum (designed to provide faster craving relief than currently
marketed nicotine gum) remains a longer term development programme with the potential to
generate value for the business further out, and will be the subject of future announcements as
appropriate.
Confectionery Gum
In this business area as in others, our primary objective continues to be the licensing of our
removable and degradable gum technology, and, as stated in our AIM Admission Document, the
Group already has two licensees in the confectionery gum ﬁeld for this technology. The direct sales
of our Rev7
®
branded confectionery gum were accordingly intended to demonstrate consumer
interest ahead of licensing to additional third parties. The board believes, however, that it is also
important to control and balance appropriately the cost of such activities in the context of the
whole business, taking into consideration that the primary focus remains on licensing. Whilst sales of
Rev7
®
gum in the USA have continued during 2012 and amounted to £153k for the year, the board
concluded that the likely future quantum of these sales no longer justiﬁed a continued physical
presence in the US market, and accordingly such commercialisation effort in this territory was
stopped from the start of 2013. The closure costs are described in the Financial Review.
Outside of the USA, the Group continues to test market Rev7
®
confectionery gum in Ireland, in
partnership with the Topaz service station network. Appropriate future commercial activities in
Europe will be considered after the test marketing is completed.
Outlook
Revolymer remains focused on the licensing of its technology to commercialisation partners in the
high value FMCG and other industrial markets. During 2012 it has progressed development on a
7 8
large portfolio of projects, mitigating the challenges inherent in our business model. Furthermore,
the majority of these projects are in the consumer specialties business area which is our strategic
priority going forward. In parallel, a number of commercial opportunities remain in our gum business
area: in nicotine gum there is the potential for substantial medium term shareholder value
generation with our improved chew and release products, and we also look forward to licensing
developments in our confectionery gum business.
Given the progress that we are making, and a signiﬁcant funded “runway” in which to continue to
do so, we are conﬁdent that commercialisation licences (or equivalent transactions) will be
forthcoming from one or more projects and look forward to announcing signiﬁcant commercial
milestones as and when they are achieved.
Roger Pettman
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Chief executive ofﬁcer’s review (continued)
