 Overview
RHM is one of the largest food
manufacturers in the United Kingdom,
with over 50 manufacturing and
distribution sites throughout the country
and more than 16,000 employees. 
Over 50 per cent of RHM’s turnover is
generated from the sale of some of the
UK’s best known and most enduring
brands, which include Hovis, Bisto, 
Mr Kipling and Sharwood’s. RHM also
manufactures own label products for 
many of the large UK supermarket chains
and for other customers, with whom 
RHM has formed strategic partnerships.
The Group’s operations form four 
business segments: Bread Bakeries,
Culinary Brands, Cakes and 
Customer Partnerships.
Competitive environment
The UK food industry is highly competitive.
In a number of RHM’s key sectors market
share is concentrated among a small
number of well-established companies 
that operate on both a national and
international basis with single or multiple
branded product lines. RHM’s brands 
also face competition from the own label
products of supermarket chains, some of
which are manufactured by RHM itself 
to different recipes. During the year 
the food industry has become even 
more competitive, with the UK’s largest
supermarkets increasing their share of the
overall market. RHM’s top five customers
account for over 52 per cent of the
Group’s total sales.
Operating performance 
Total Group
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
29 April 30 April
2006 2005 Change
Turnover £1,559m £1,528m 2.1%
Underlying
operating
profit £173.5m £158.2m 9.7%
Underlying
operating
profit
margin 11.1% 10.4% +70bps
Turnover for the year increased by 
2.1 per cent to £1,559m, following an
improved performance in the second half
of the year. This reflected both a higher
volume of sales and the impact of price
increases successfully introduced to counter
£11m of energy cost increases incurred
during the year, most of which occurred 
in the second half.
12 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Chief
Executive’s
Review
“W e are confident that by
maintaining our focus on
profitable top line growth
and cost saving opportunities
we will create significant
shareholder value.” Branded turnover increased by £24m or
3.1 per cent to £788m, largely as a result
of higher Hovis, Bisto and Granary sales
and new product launches across all
business areas, which more than offset 
a decline in Mr Kipling sales. Excluding
branded Cakes’ turnover, which declined
by 7.7 per cent (£13.7m), branded
turnover rose by 6.4 per cent Non-branded
turnover increased by £7m or 1.0 per cent
to £764m, principally as a result of 
higher third-party flour and chilled ready
meal sales. 
Underlying operating profit increased by
9.7 per cent to £173.5m. Cost reduction
initiatives delivered in aggregate £53m of
benefits. These savings, together with the
benefit of higher total turnover, more than
offset the impact of the decline in Cakes’
trading and were key to the delivery of 
an improvement in underlying operating
profit margin, which rose from 
10.4 per cent to 11.1 per cent.
Consistent with our long-term strategy of
building investment behind our brands,
advertising and marketing expenditure
increased by £2.6m in Bread Bakeries 
and Culinary Brands. In Cakes, £3m was
tactically reallocated in the second half 
of the year from advertising to in-store 
and other promotional activity. This was
considered the most effective way of
encouraging consumers to trial our
refreshed Mr Kipling range, following
significant product quality and packaging
improvements. We intend to increase
above the line investment in Cakes during
the new financial year. Total Group
promotional expenditure increased
significantly as a consequence of the
challenging market environment that
prevailed all year.
13 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executive’s Review RHM’s Bread Bakeries division is the
largest vertically integrated baker
and flour miller in the UK. It is the
home of Hovis, celebrating its
120th anniversary , as well as other
famous brands including Granary ,
Mother’s Pride, Nimble and Ormo. 
We supply around one third of 
the UK’s daily bread, delivering 
in excess of two million fresh 
loaves and rolls to over 9,000
supermarkets and small
independent stores nationwide
every day . We also produce over
850 other varieties of product,
including crumpets, fruit buns,
croissants, rolls, scones, muffins 
and scotch pancakes.
Our mills produce over a million
tonnes of flour every year, with
over half being used in our own
bread bakeries and other RHM
businesses. We produce over 220
different types of flour for external
customers in both bulk and bagged
form, marketed in part under the
Hovis, Granary , Elephant Atta and
Fassal brands.
Turnover increased by 4.1 per cent to
£786m. Higher bread turnover was
principally due to increased sales of Hovis,
reflecting both volume gains and price
increases. The success of Hovis has been
driven by the effective targeting of the
premium branded market as well as
increased consumer demand for healthier
products. Hovis’ market share has risen
from 29.1 per cent to 31.6 per cent during
the year, a gain of 250 basis points
1
.
Initiatives such as Healthiest Ever Hovis,
the new Granary range, Hovis Best of 
Both and Hovis Invisible Crust have been
significant in helping to position Hovis 
as a premium brand with strong health
credentials in the minds of consumers.
Volume has also been increased through
customer wins and we have increased
Hovis production capacity with the
acquisition of an additional bakery 
in Leicester.
Third-party flour turnover increased from
£134m to £140m. During the period the
impact of the closure of three older mills
was more than offset by increased sales
from our Wellingborough mill, purchased
in July 2005. This acquisition, together
with the mill closures, has significantly
improved the effectiveness of the Group’s
milling asset base.
Underlying divisional operating profit
increased by 26.4 per cent to £81.4m, with
underlying operating profit margin rising
by 190 basis points from 8.5 per cent to
10.4 per cent mainly due to better pricing,
favourable overrider settlements and
successful procurement, logistics,
restructuring and pension cost savings.
These gains have been offset in part by
anticipated higher distribution costs
associated with serving new convenience
store customers and the impact of higher
energy costs.
1 Source: IRI Multiples & Co-Ops: 52 weeks ended 
22 April 2006.
14 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executive’s Review
Bread
Bakeries
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
29 April 30 April
2006 2005 Change
Turnover £786m £755m 4.1%
Underlying
operating
profit £81.4m £64.4m 26.4%
Underlying
operating
profit
margin 10.4% 8.5% +190bps Key markets
15 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executive’s Review
Pre-packed bread
Definition
Pre-packed bread, including white, 
brown, wholemeal, seeded, dieting and
‘half and half’ breads.
RHM Brands:
Hovis, Granary, Mother’s Pride, Nimble 
and Ormo.
Market
Of the markets in which RHM operates, this
is the largest, with a value of £1,106m in the
current year. The category grew in value by
7.6 per cent in the year to 29 April 2006,
having grown 5.5 per cent
1
in the prior year.
The category is highly branded, with a few
large players accounting for the majority 
of purchases. Hovis is the market’s leading
brand, with a market share of 31.6 per cent
2
at year end, having reinforced its position
with significant share gains this year.
Consumption Drivers
Whilst convenience is the biggest driver
of pre-packed bread consumption, other
factors are influential when consumers are
choosing specific products. Health concerns
have grown in importance in recent years,
particularly amongst families – the largest
consumers of pre-packed bread. Enjoyment is
also a significant driver in the category, with
consumers looking for new, tastier alternatives
to plain white bread.
1 Source: IRI Multiples & Co-Ops: 52 weeks ended 
22 April 2006.
2 Source: IRI Multiples & Co-Ops: 4 weeks ended 
22 April 2006.
Growth Sectors
The Half and Half, Seeded and Brown sectors
have all grown rapidly over the past three
years, reflecting increased consumer interest
in health and premium breads. Half and Half
– a category created relatively recently with
the launch of Hovis Best of Both (white bread
with the wheatgerm content of wholemeal) –
has been a particular success story, growing
by 55 per cent in this year alone. These gains
have more than offset the long-term decline
in White bread sales, with Dieting being the
only other sector to decline in value this year. 
Innovation
Hovis has again led the bread category in
innovation with Healthiest Ever Hovis, the
addition of whole wheat across the entire
range and the award-winning Hovis Invisible
Crust, the world’s first bread to be baked
without a crust. 16 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executive’s Review
Culinary 
Brands
RHM’s Culinary Brands division
contains some of the UK’s best
loved and most recognisable
grocery brands, including Bisto
gravy , Sharwood’s Asian sauces,
Robertson’s jam, Golden Shred
marmalade and Frank Cooper’s
preserves, Atora suet, McDougalls
and Cadbury’s baking products,
Paxo stuffing mixes, Saxa and
Cerebos salt and Rombouts coffee.
In addition to manufacturing
branded products for sale in retail
outlets, the Culinary Brands division
supplies bulk and part-prepared
items, for example flour-based
mixes, to Foodservice customers. 
RHM is the clear leader in each of
the grocery markets in which it
operates. 91 per cent of Culinary
Brands’ sales are of branded
products, with the remainder 
being private label goods.
Culinary Brands’ turnover increased by
£5m, or 1.8 per cent to £271m, reflecting
higher branded sales, particularly of Bisto,
in the seasonally more important second
half of the year. Branded turnover
accounted for 91 per cent of divisional
sales, up from 89 per cent last year. 
Branded growth was driven by increased
advertising and promotional investment.
New advertising campaigns were launched
for the division’s two biggest brands and
were well received. The Bisto “Aah! Night”
advertising theme encouraged families to
spend one night a week eating together
with “proper food and proper gravy”,
whilst the Sharwood’s “Go East”
advertising celebrated the vibrancy and
excitement of the Sharwood’s range of
Asian foods. Many new products were
launched; Sharwood’s noodle boxes and
squeezable variants of the brand’s mango
chutney met with considerable success
whilst Bisto launched chilled, ready-made
gravy and new variants of chilled and
frozen yorkshire puddings, under licence.
Bisto achieved its highest ever share of the
gravy market in April 2006, 67.8 per cent,
up 600 basis points
1
on the same period 
last year.
Price increases were achieved across the
Bisto, Sharwood’s, Paxo, Rombouts,
Robertson’s and Atora ranges, which
helped offset increases in energy costs.
Performance was also aided by the delivery
of further procurement and other cost
saving initiatives, including the outsourcing
of the majority of the division’s central
warehousing and transport requirements
and a number of projects that have
resulted in improved production efficiency.
In addition, during the second half of the
year, administration of the four business
units that made up the division (Centura
Foods, RHM Foodservice, McDougalls
Foods and RGB Coffee) was brought
together in a single location.
Underlying operating profit increased by
6.9 per cent to £69.4m, reflecting the
branded sales increase, and successful 
cost-saving initiatives, offset in part 
by the impact of higher advertising 
and promotional spend throughout 
the year and the decline in own label 
sales. Underlying operating profit 
margin increased by 120 basis points 
to 25.6 per cent.
1 Source: IRI All Outlets 4 weeks ended 22 April 2006.
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
29 April 30 April
2006 2005 Change
Turnover £271m £266m 1.8%
Underlying
operating
profit £69.4m £64.9m 6.9%
Underlying
operating
profit
margin 25.6% 24.4% +120bps 17 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executive’s Review
Key markets
Asian Meal Solutions
Definition
Asian Meal Solutions includes ingredients 
and accompaniments for Asian meals to be
consumed in the home, incorporating sauces,
flat breads, noodles, chutneys and cooking
powders.
RHM Brand:
Sharwood’s.
Market
Asian Meal Solutions was worth £280m
1
this year, an increase of 3.0 per cent
1
on 
the previous year. This is a highly branded
category with a large number of branded
players, making it very competitive.
Sharwood’s is the number one brand with 
a market share of 28.6 per cent
1
and a
presence in every major product sector.
Consumption Drivers
Enjoyment is the leading driver of
consumption in the category, with a
significant proportion of consumers saying
they use the category when they are 
looking for a change or something special.
Convenience is also very important, with
speed and ease of preparation to the fore.
Health concerns are a rapidly growing 
driver but still account for a relatively small
percentage of consumption occasions.
Growth Sectors
The biggest contributors to market growth
have been in accompaniments; specific
products showing growth being within
noodles, breads, pappadums and chutneys.
Speciality oils and ingredients have also
shown significant growth as consumers’
knowledge of Asian cuisine has developed.
Innovation
New flavours, with high quality exotic
ingredients, have continued to stimulate
enjoyment and interest in the category. 
To serve an increasing consumer focus on
health, the Sharwood’s Balanced Living range
was launched in 2005 and continues to 
grow. Meanwhile, with consumer insight
demonstrating the need for ever more
convenient product formats, this year saw the
launch of Sharwood’s Noodle Boxes, Stir Fry
Noodles and new squeezable Chutney.
1 Source: IRI All Outlets 52 weeks ended 22 April 2006.
Gravy
Definition
Gravies includes powders, granules, 
ready-to-pour ambient and fresh chilled.
RHM Brand:
Bisto.
Market
Gravy is a mature, highly branded market
with a few large players accounting for the
majority of purchases. Volume in the gravy
market has remained relatively steady but the
total market value for the year to April 2006
(£107m
1
) showed an increase of 5.7 per cent
1
on the previous year. Value growth has 
been fuelled by the increasing popularity 
of premium products and chilled variants.
Bisto is the number one brand in the 
gravy market.
Consumption Drivers
Convenience remains the key driver of
consumption in the category and has grown
in importance. Gravy is now being perceived
as more practical by all consumer groups,
especially the 17-34 age group. Enjoyment is
also an important driver and is particularly
evident in the purchase of newly launched
and premium products. While health concerns
are the least significant of the three drivers,
they are the fastest growing.
Growth Sectors
The key growth sector from last year to this
year has been the sale of sachets. These are
smaller packs of granules and their increased
popularity is linked to the demographic shift
towards smaller households. The chilled, 
liquid gravy sector is also in growth with
convenience and perceived freshness both
important drivers. These products are
particularly popular with younger consumers
and are introducing new consumers to 
the category.
Innovation
Sales from new products represent less than 
1 per cent of total sales in the gravy market,
with key brands concentrating on extending
their presence in complementary categories. 18 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Cakes
RHM is the largest manufacturer 
of cakes for the UK and Irish
markets. Our branded cakes are
predominantly sold under the 
Mr Kipling, Cadbury’s, Lyons and
Gateaux brands.
Cakes’ turnover declined by 8.7 per cent 
to £241m.
Avana Bakeries, RHM’s whole cakes
business, which represents approximately
20 per cent of Cakes’ turnover, performed
well throughout the year due to a
combination of successful innovation,
increased consumer demand and improved
operational efficiency.
As previously reported, trading at Manor
Bakeries, RHM’s manufacturer of small
cakes and slices, was disappointing in 
the first half of the year, with sales of 
Mr Kipling cakes and slices falling below
expectations. Actions taken to improve
profitability in Manor Bakeries resulted 
in an improved year-on-year financial
performance in the second half of the year.
The closure of the Eastleigh bakery and
transfer of production to our Carlton site
was completed on time in December, with
£2.9m of consequent cost savings being
achieved in the remainder of the year. 
All Mr Kipling cakes are now free from
artificial colours and flavours, many recipes
have been upgraded and new packaging
has been introduced across the range. 
The Mr Kipling “Delightful” range of lower
fat, lower calorie cakes was introduced as
planned in January and has received a
positive consumer response. A new 
Mr Kipling promotional strategy has been
implemented and a nationwide tasting
campaign successfully completed. 
We were heartened by reasonable
Christmas and Easter trading periods as
well as by a slow down in the rate of 
Mr Kipling year-on-year net sales decline,
from 14.1 per cent in the first half of the
year to 8.0 per cent in the second, as the
steps taken to improve our consumer
offering began to deliver the anticipated
level of benefit. Encouragingly, Mr Kipling
net sales in the last two months of the
financial year were at a similar level to
those achieved in the same months of 
the previous year. We anticipate that 
Mr Kipling sales in the current year will at
least match last year’s level. There remains
however much to be done to realise the
full potential of the Mr Kipling brand.
£3m of marketing spend was tactically
reallocated from advertising to in-store 
and other promotional activity on a short-
term basis, this being a more effective 
way of encouraging consumers to trial 
the improved Mr Kipling range. Manor
Bakeries’ promotional spend increased
during 2006 by £5m, of which £4.2m was
incurred during the first half of the year.
Our new promotional strategy, which
incentivises consumers to purchase multiple
rather than single packs, was successfully
implemented in the second half, with a
year-on-year increase in promotional 
spend of less than £1m.
Cakes’ operating profit for the full year
reduced from £18.9m to £13.7m, with 
the impact of the lower level of turnover,
adverse volume mix and increased
investment in promotional activity
offsetting the benefit of a total of 
£18m of restructuring and rationalisation,
procurement and other cost savings.
Cakes’ operating profit in the second 
half of the year increased from £11.0m 
to £12.7m.
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
29 April 30 April
2006 2005 Change
Turnover £241m £264m -8.7%
Underlying
operating
profit £13.7m £18.9m -27.5%
Underlying
operating
profit
margin 5.7% 7.2% -150bps
Chief Executive’s Review 19 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executive’s Review
Key markets
Ambient Cake
Definition
Ambient Cake includes wrapped and
unwrapped cakes that are kept at ambient
temperatures. The market can be broadly
segmented into large cakes, event cakes 
and individual cakes.
RHM Brands:
Mr Kipling, Cadbury’s Cakes, Lyons and
Gateaux.
Market
The total Ambient Cake market was worth
£916m this year, a decline of 0.2 per cent
1
on the previous year.
Retailers’ own labels have a very strong
presence in the market, showing a steady
increase in share over the past three years.
RHM manufactures and markets the
category’s two largest brands: Mr Kipling
(number one) and Cadbury’s Cakes.
Consumption Drivers
Enjoyment is by far the biggest driver of cake
consumption with consumers turning to cake
when they want a treat.
1 Source: IRI All Outlets 52 weeks ended 22 April 2006.
Growth Sectors
Event cakes – most significantly for Christmas
and Easter – contributed much of the growth
in the market, through both premium and
standard offerings. 
Innovation
The Mr Kipling “Delightful” range of lower
calorie cakes was launched in the current
year and has exceeded expectations, rapidly
growing to become a significant player in the
market. Improvements have been made to
recipes across the Easter Mince Pies range. 20 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executive’s Review
Customer
Partnerships
The Customer Partnerships business
maintains strategic partnerships
with large customers requiring 
a bespoke service, including 
Marks & Spencer and Pizza Hut. 
It also operates specialist distribution
businesses that supply a selected
range of RHM and third party
products into the Irish markets, 
as well as supplying industrial
preserves and frozen products 
to UK supermarket chains.
Customer Partnerships’ turnover from
continuing operations increased by 
8.0 per cent to £262m. Our chilled 
and frozen businesses achieved strong 
sales growth through a combination 
of innovation and contract gains. 
Ledbury Preserves, Charnwood Foods 
and RHM Ireland also made satisfactory
progress in line with our expectations.
Customer Partnerships benefited not 
only from the higher level of activity but
also from procurement and other cost
saving initiatives across all businesses.
Consequently underlying operating profit
increased by 24.6 per cent to £29.4m.
20
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
29 April 30 April
2006 2005 Change
Turnover £262m £243m 8.0%
Underlying
operating
profit £29.4m £23.6m 24.6%
Underlying
operating
profit
margin 11.2% 9.7% +150bps 21 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chief Executive’s Review
Outlook
We have made a satisfactory start to our
new financial year in the traditionally 
quiet trading months of May and June.
Although we are still at an early stage 
of our branded Cakes recovery plan, we
are encouraged by the initial consumer
response to the actions we have taken. 
We are increasing investment behind 
our brands. We have a wide range of 
new products under development across 
all business areas, with Hovis, Bisto,
Sharwood’s and Cadbury’s Cake products
all due to appear in store in the first half 
of the financial year. Advertising and
marketing spend is anticipated to increase
by more than £5m this year as we support
both our existing portfolio and our 
new launches.
Assiduously pursuing opportunities 
to reduce our cost base remains a
fundamental part of our strategy. 
Cost reduction initiatives are anticipated 
to deliver a total of £30m of benefits 
to the Group in the coming year, with
£14m being derived from rationalisation
and restructuring projects. A proportion 
of these savings will inevitably be 
used to offset inflationary and other
pressures, given the extremely competitive
environment in which we are currently
operating. Group energy costs are
expected to rise by a further £11m during
the year; as in 2006, we will seek broadly
to offset this cost inflation through 
price increases.
We are confident that by maintaining our
focus on profitable top line growth and
cost saving opportunities we will create
significant shareholder value.
Ian McMahon
Chief Executive Officer
28 June 2006
