 Results
The year to 30 April 2003 has been the most difficult since the
inception of the Group in 1984.  The effect of slowing economies
in the USA and the UK, coupled with more difficult conditions in
the oil and gas sector, made for challenging trading conditions
particularly against the background of uncertainty about war in
Iraq.  Nevertheless all of this was manageable and was being
managed.  What had not been anticipated was the admission in
early March by the financial controller of our US subsidiary
Sunbelt Rentals, that he had been failing properly to reconcile a
number of balance sheet accounts.  The effects of this admission
were immediate.  On the following day the Group had been due to
make representations and warranties as part of a normal rollover
of part of its debt facility.  In the circumstances it was clearly
unable to do so and as a result was put in default of its banking
agreements.
It was gratifying therefore to be able to announce on 2 June the
conclusion of the forensic examination and the renewal of our
banking arrangements until January 2005.  As we noted in our
June statement “the Group will
generate a significant amount of 
cash over the next two years and
the Board expects to refinance 
the senior debt facilities well before
January 2005.” 
The knock on effects of the events of March were significant in
both the USA and the UK but particularly the latter, given the
Group’s status as a UK public company.  They are reflected in the
outcome for the year of a loss of £1.8m before exceptional items,
goodwill amortisation and tax, and in the scale of exceptional
charges incurred and a loss before tax of £42.2m.  The prior year
impact of the US accounting issue was £9.4m.  A-Plant has also
provided for the cost of the rationalisation of a number of its
businesses and for the centralisation of all of its UK accounting
and head office functions at Warrington, the total sum being
£7.4m.  In addition, the Group has taken the opportunity to
review the method by which it estimates the likely cost of
incurred insurance claims in the USA by moving from a case by
case analysis carried out by appointed independent claims
handling agents to a more conservative actuarial estimate of the
likely total cost of the self-insured risk.  This has given rise to an
additional current year expense of £2.7m and to an exceptional
£7.4m charge relating to the brought forward balance.  
Total exceptional costs therefore amounted to £31.4m in the year
of which £16.8m relates to the year to 30 April 2002 and prior and
£7.5m to the cost of advisory and commitment fees in respect of
the successful renegotiation of the Group’s debt facilities.
Costs relating to the successful legal action in the United States 
Chairman’s Report
Annual Report & Accounts 2003
The Group is a half billion pound turnover business with leading positions in each of its
markets. It is once again ready to take advantage of its significant operating leverage as
and when economic conditions improve. The Board regrets that the past year has been a
difficult one for all the Company’s stakeholders but looks forward to making progress
along the road to recovery in the current year. of approximately £1m in total have been charged to the profit and 
loss account over the last two years and no credit has been
taken in this year’s accounts for the anticipated recovery of these
or in respect of the US$15m of damages awarded to the
Company by the North Carolina business court as announced on
6 May 2003.
Dividend
It was with regret that the Board in late March withdrew the
previously declared interim dividend but it was clearly essential
at that time to conserve resources.  As announced in early June
resumption of dividends in future is dependent upon completion
of the refinancing anticipated before expiry of the existing
facilities in January 2005.  An announcement on future dividend
policy will be made once that refinancing has been completed.
Staff
The Group’s staff across the world have faced unprecedented
challenges in recent months in light of the uncertainty caused by 
the unexpected default under the bank facility.  They have
responded magnificently and our thanks go to all of them.
The Board
Finally, our congratulations to Philip Lovegrove on being
awarded the OBE in the Queen’s Birthday Honours List.
Henry Staunton
Chairman
15 July 2003
ASHTEAD GROUP PLC   .3.
●
