 We are pleased to present our first set of
full year results since RHM rejoined the
stock market in July 2005. The Group’s
return to public ownership marked an
important step and was made possible 
by the significant progress that has 
been made in recent years as we seek 
to transform RHM into the leading 
UK-focused food group.
Since flotation the transformation has
continued apace and, for the most part,
according to plan. We have delivered
overall sales growth of 2.1 per cent, 
within our long-term target of two to four
per cent annual sales growth. Second half
sales growth was 3.7 per cent. Strong sales
of Hovis, which has reached record market
shares, in part due to the launch of Hovis
Invisible Crust, and of Bisto, which
benefited from an extremely effective
advertising campaign, helped compensate
for lower branded Cakes sales, particularly
in the first half of the year. As I stated at 
the time of our interim results, we have
taken decisive action to improve Cakes
performance, and, following a better result
in the second half, the Board is confident
that our Cakes business will demonstrate
further progress in the coming year. 
Maintaining a constant attack on costs 
is vital to our success. Cost reduction
programmes have this year delivered total
savings of £53m across all areas of our
business, an excellent performance and
ahead of our own expectations at the 
time of flotation. We have also been 
able broadly to offset £11m in increased
energy costs through price increases and
non-branded volume growth. 
These initiatives have made a key
contribution to a 9.7 per cent improvement
in underlying operating profit from
£158.2m to £173.5m. Pro forma earnings
per share increased by 19 per cent, from
22.6p to 26.9p. This reflects a significantly
improved trading performance, particularly
in the second half of the year, and the
benefit of reduced interest payments. 
The Group is a strong cash generator, with
cash flow from operations for the year
amounting to £124m. This has led to a
reduction in year end net debt to £676m
from a pro forma £711m at the time of
flotation and provides us with financial
flexibility in the event that attractive 
bolt-on acquisition opportunities arise.
10 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Chairman’s 
Comments
“The Board is heartened by 
the significantly improved
trading performance delivered 
in the second half of the year 
and is confident that RHM will
deliver further progress in the
year ahead.” Pensions Review
The Board is pleased that, following the
completion of the triennial pension review
earlier in the year, we have clarity on the
Group’s pension obligations and funding
requirements. These are explained in more
detail in the Financial Review. The steps
taken during the year have contributed 
to a reduction in our UK pension deficit
under IFRS as at 29 April 2006 to £160m,
or £112m net of a deferred tax credit of
£48m. This represented an equitable
outcome for employees, pensioners and
shareholders and created a solid basis from
which to move forward. We will continue
to monitor our pension position carefully.
Board
I am delighted to report that the three new
non-executive directors appointed during
the year, Michael Baulk, Roger Matthews
and Erhard Schoewel have already made
outstanding contributions to the Board’s
strategic thinking and are providing
invaluable support to our executive team.
We look forward to benefiting further 
from their complementary experience in
the coming years.
We have also announced today the
appointment of Brian Buchan to the 
RHM Board as a non-executive director. 
He brings enormous operational experience
and consumer insight from over 30 years
spent at the forefront of the consumer
goods industry, including most recently
from his role as Chief Executive Officer 
of SSL International Plc.
Dividends
The directors have proposed the payment
of a final dividend of 10.6p per share,
which, together with the interim dividend
of 5.3p paid to shareholders in February
2006, makes a total of 15.9p per share 
for the year. This amounts to a total
payment of £55m and is in line with the
commitment made by the Board at the
time of the IPO.
Employees
Ultimately, the success of our plans to
transform RHM depend upon the hard
work and enthusiasm of our employees.
Since becoming your Chairman, I have
been impressed by the positive attitude
and dedication of the many employees
that I have had the privilege of meeting.
On behalf of all shareholders, I thank 
them all for their efforts and congratulate 
them on the many achievements of the
past year.
Outlook
We know that the new year will not be
without its challenges – in particular from 
a competitive market place and further
inflationary cost pressures. However, we
will continue to invest behind our brands,
accelerate new product development and
capitalise on opportunities to reduce costs
across all of our businesses.
The Board is heartened by the significantly
improved trading performance delivered 
in the second half of the year and is
confident that RHM will deliver further
progress in the year ahead.
11 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Chairman’s Comments
Jan du Plessis
Chairman
28 June 2006
