 Review of the year
During the past year, despite the problems of the world economy and the reaction to and aftermath from 11 September
your Company has continued to develop its position as one of the leading players in the international automotive
industry. Our commitment to the provision of the highest quality consultancy services to this industry has enabled us to
achieve record profits for the fifth consecutive year.
All divisions have contributed to this success. In particular, the transmissions business, Ricardo Driveline and
Transmission Systems (RDTS), had an outstanding year. Despite the fact that a part of this business was transferred to
Ricardo Vehicle Engineering (RVE) when that division was formed in 2001, its response has been to grow its core
transmissions business to more than offset the transfer. RDTS once again supported the Audi team at Le Mans, where
those cars fitted with Ricardo transmissions won first and second place for the third year running. Shortly after the end
of the year we acquired the business and assets of Gemini Transmissions Limited, a specialist transmissions company
located not far from Leamington, which is equipped with many of the machine tools we require for the support of our
consultancy services and development of motor sport interests.
Despite the pressures evident in the market place, RVE made a promising start achieving an encouraging turnover and
profit in its first year of autonomy.
Both Ricardo Consulting Engineers (RCE) at Shoreham and Ricardo North America (Rinc) conducted their businesses in
markets where pressure on margins was significant. This was promptly tackled by reducing costs and continually
improving our own internal efficiencies. We remain confident about the long term opportunities in both these
subsidiaries and in September of 2001 authorised the landlord to build an extension to our facilities in Detroit to more
efficiently respond to those demands in the future.
Annual results and dividend
Profit before tax was £16.7m compared with £15.1m last year. Turnover increased to £143.2m from £139.9m. Earnings per
share increased by 12.2% to 24.9p from 22.2p. Continued application of good cash management practices produced a
net cash inflow of £16.8m, which translates into net cash balances of £19.9m at the end of the year. Your Board is
recommending an increase in total dividend to 8.6p per share, compared with 7.8p last year. This dividend is covered 2.9
times compared to 2.8 times in 2001.
Strategy
Whilst adhering to the strategy of providing engineering consultancy services to the automotive industry, which has
served us well in recent years, we have decided to extend the consultancy service we offer to our clients, to encompass
several of the strategic issues which our customers encounter. We have recruited Stephen Parker, a senior, well
respected individual from the industry, and given him a remit to develop a capacity to provide strategic consulting
alongside the Company’s existing technology based activity. He joined the Board on 1 August 2002.
Alongside our core consultancy business we have continued to benefit from the policy, which I mentioned last year, of
exploiting some of the intellectual property we have developed in recent years.
People
The death of John Needham was a great loss to Ricardo. John spent his entire career with us and made a significant
contribution to our success and he is sadly missed.
Our business is a people business and the Company is fortunate to have such a competent and committed staff. Once
again I thank them all for the contribution they have made.
Prospects
In the current financial year we are making a significant investment in setting up a strategic consulting business and
integrating Gemini. Whilst our cost base is directly impacted by an increased pension charge, our business continues to
grow and we face the future with confidence.
Sir Noel Davies
23 September 2002
Ricardo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002  15
Chairman’s Statement
