 While it is impossible to determine precisely the trading effects
of the US accounting irregularities they undoubtedly had an
impact on the Group’s performance in the last quarter.  On a
constant currency basis, total revenues for the year declined 2%
and EBITDA by 18%.  However, the effect of the weak US dollar
increased these reductions to 8% and 23% respectively at
actual exchange rates and operating profit before exceptional
items and goodwill amortisation declined by 49% at actual rates
with similar percentage declines in each division.  Actions taken
to reduce the cost base included a reduction of 23 in the
number of UK branches and a reduction of 7.1% in Group staff
numbers.
Sunbelt
Sunbelt continued to take market share in the USA although
trading conditions were the most challenging for over a decade.
These were exacerbated in the second half by the wettest
weather conditions on parts of the East Coast since records
began.  The maintenance of dollar revenues at last year’s levels
reflected maintained utilisation levels and the benefit of the
twenty-three branches opened in the previous year and four in 
the first half of the current year.  These benefits were offset by
increased pressure on rental rates.  The 0.2% decline in
Sunbelt’s dollar revenues compared with the collective decline of
6% in revenues reported by the top ten US equipment rental
companies in calendar year 2002.  Although cost reduction
measures were put in place, the drag effect of the additional 27
branches reduced Sunbelt’s profitability with its EBITDA margin
Chief Executive’s Review
Having addressed a number of significant coinciding issues the Board looks forward to
making progress on the road to recovery in the coming year. The Board is confident
that all three divisions will continue to be cash generative and that significant net free
cash flow will be generated in the coming year and beyond, with an attendant reduction
in debt levels.
Annual Report & Accounts 2003
* before exceptional items and in 2002 excluding the prior year BET lease impact
** operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.  Additionally in 2002, the Sunbelt figures exclude the prior 
year BET lease impact.
A reconciliation between these figures and the loss before tax for the year is given in the financial review on pages 8 to 11.
Divisional performance
Revenues EBITDA* Divisional profit**
2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Sunbelt Rentals 349.1 382.2 99.3 130.5 32.9 62.6
A-Plant 178.4 187.0 48.9 60.2 7.9 14.5
Ashtead Technology 12.0 14.5 6.1 8.4 2.5 4.2
Group central costs - - (4.2) (4.7) (4.2) (4.7)
539.5 583.7 150.1 194.4 39.1 76.6 falling to 28.4% (34.1%) and its divisional profit margin to 9.4%
(16.4%).
During the last quarter of the year Sunbelt implemented the
leading IT operating system in the US rental market.  This will
facilitate improved efficiencies in customer service and cost
control through a supplier rationalisation programme in the
coming year.  Capital expenditure will also be kept under tight
control being concentrated on higher margin products as part of
a reconfiguration of the rental fleet.
In recent months there has been a better balance between
supply and demand as major equipment disposal programmes
by our competitors appear to have been largely completed and
dollar revenues have continued broadly in line with those of a
year ago.
A-Plant
As previously mentioned the knock-on effect of the US
accounting problem had an adverse impact on A-Plant, our UK
subsidiary, as it damaged the confidence of customers and
suppliers.  As a result the positive trend achieved in the first half
and beyond was reversed.  Full year EBITDA margins were
27.4% (32.2%) while divisional profit margins fell to 4.4% (7.8%).
During the year the integration of the four regional accounting
offices and the UK Corporate and Marketing office into our new
Warrington facility was successfully completed on time and
within budget.  A-Plant’s business was also restructured on a
product basis to give our specialist and tool hire shop
businesses a national presence and our general equipment
locations a greater focus.
A national meeting of UK managers was held in June, supported
by a number of key suppliers, to confirm the successful outcome
of the banking discussions, to share with them our strategy and
business plan and to brief them on a significant new incentive
programme with a view to increasing market share.  The
ASHTEAD GROUP PLC   .5.
➲ achievement of this goal has been enhanced by the impending
announcement of a 3 year preferred supplier contract with one
of the country’s largest contractors.  The contract has a potential
value of several million pounds per annum.
Since the beginning of June there has been a steady increase in
the number and value of rental contracts towards the level of
early March.
Ashtead Technology
The offshore oil and gas industry was particularly weak in
Technology’s two principal markets, Aberdeen where the effects
were partially offset by serving customers in the West African
sector and Houston.  Despite the slow US economy the
environmental business continued to trade well.  Costs and
capital expenditure were kept under tight control.  Recently we
have seen improvement in the offshore market and Technology’s
management is more optimistic about the future than it has been
for some time.
Cashflow
The Group generated a net free cash inflow in the year of
£38.9m, a £68.1m turn-round on the previous year’s outflow of
£29.2m.  Net debt at year
end was £622.3m, £53.0m
less than the previous year’s
£675.3m.  At constant
exchange rates the
reduction was £21.2m.
Capital expenditure was
limited to £85.5m down
from £113.8m in the
previous year reflecting
economic conditions.  £71.0m was spent on the equipment fleet
of which £58.4m was replacement expenditure and £12.6m for
expansion.  The average age of the fleet at 30 April 2003 was a
fraction over four years in both the UK and the US but, in the
US, when the longer-life aerial work platform fleet is excluded,
the average fleet age for the rest of the fleet reduces to slightly
below three and a half years.  This means that the Group retains
a relatively young fleet, which is important at the current difficult
stage of the economic cycle.  Gains on disposal of fixed assets
were £2.7m up from £1.5m in the previous year.
It is anticipated that capital expenditure in the coming year will
remain at similar levels but with a higher proportion spent in the
UK.  Significant net free cash flow is also expected.
Response to the US accounting issue
Immediate action was taken in response to the US accounting
issue.  Sunbelt’s financial controller left the Company.  A
temporary replacement was installed who continues to provide
transitional support to a full time appointee who joined Sunbelt
in May.  A forensic investigation was undertaken by KPMG
reporting to the Group and its banks.  Deloitte & Touche was
also employed to assist the Company in the production and
review of detailed business plans across the Group.  An
ambitious target date of the end of May was set for the
determination of the extent of the accounting problem and the
conclusion of discussions with the Group’s bankers and the
delivery of a renewed bank facility.  These deadlines were met
and an amended facility, committed to January 2005, with
revised covenants reflecting current trading conditions was put
in place at the end of May.
The audit of our financial statements has since been concluded
by PricewaterhouseCoopers and a new senior Group position,
Chief Executive’s Review
Annual Report & Accounts 2003 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC   .7.
Director of Financial Reporting, has been created and filled from
outside the Group.
Outlook
There are some indications that the worst is over as far as the
economic cycle is concerned.  US government statistics for our
principal market, non-residential construction, show that after a
30% decline in the period March 2001 to September 2002, the
position has been stable for the last eight months.  The
continued large investment in PFI work and the announcement
of a significant road-widening programme by the UK government
are signs of encouragement as A-Plant continues to develop its
major account programme.  The offshore market, particularly
that in Houston, has picked up in recent months after a slow
period.
The equipment rental industry tends to lag the economic cycle
making it prudent to be cautious.  Having addressed a number
of significant coinciding issues the Board looks forward to
making progress on the road to recovery in the coming year.
The Board is confident that all three divisions will continue to be
cash generative and that significant net free cash flow will be
generated in the coming year and beyond, with an attendant
reduction in debt levels.  The Group remains a half billion pound
business with market leading positions which offer significant
operating leverage as market conditions improve.
George Burnett
Chief Executive
15 July 2003
●
