 04 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2004
Chairman’s report
Cob Stenham
Chairman
The year ended 30 April 2004 was a
challenging year for the Company. It ended,
however, with the Company having
significantly improved its financial condition
through the issue of the senior secured
notes due 2014 and the extension of its
senior debt maturities until September 2007
and with signs of improvement in its trading
performance.
Much of your Board’s time this year and my
time since I joined the Board in November
2003 has been spent on securing the future
of the Company and in ensuring that the
interests of all stakeholders in the Company
– especially its shareholders, lenders,
customers, suppliers and employees – were
appropriately considered in our plans.
The past year has seen many challenges but
the success of Sunbelt’s management team
in overcoming their March 2003 accounting
issues, absorbing the changes in their team
which followed and then, boosted by
recovering markets, delivering a significantly
improved divisional operating profit
performance, has provided a solid base on
which the Group can build for the future.
Reflecting this, Cliff Miller’s appointment as
a director of the Company and as chief
executive of Sunbelt re-establishes Sunbelt’s
direct participation on the Board. I am
pleased to be able to congratulate Cliff on
his appointment and we look forward to his
participation in future Board discussion.
In A-Plant there has also been significant
change and, whilst the financial
performance of this business for the year
just ended remained disappointing, the
measures taken, more fully described in the
Chief Executive’s review that follows, now
provide an opportunity for improvement. 
The loss before tax for the year was £33.1m
(2003 – £42.2m). This reflected substantial
exceptional items connected principally with
the default and the subsequent refinancing.
Before exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation, there was a profit for the year
of £7.6m (2003 – loss of £1.8m). 
As well as the Board, the Audit Committee
has had a full year and I was very pleased
that Hugh Etheridge was able to join the
Company in January as a non-executive
director and take up the chairmanship of
this committee. It has considered the
reports and recommendations from the
Group’s outsourced internal auditors in
detail and satisfied itself that management
had addressed these appropriately. It also
liaised closely with our new independent
auditors.
Other changes in the Board in the past 
year include the departure at the end of
February of my predecessor as chairman,
Henry Staunton to enable him to
concentrate more fully on the demands 
of his new executive role at ITV plc. Henry
successfully chaired the Board through a
challenging period whilst also holding a 
full time executive role elsewhere. His
experience and guidance were most
valuable and we are extremely grateful.
Alan Wheatley, former deputy chairman
and senior independent non-executive
director, also retired last September having
been on the Board for many years and,
although we did not serve together, it is
appropriate that I record our thanks to him
as well as to all our non-executive directors
for their work on the Company’s behalf.
Although much remains to be done,
George Burnett and his executive team
deserve to be congratulated for their
achievements over the past year. We also
have great employees in the Company and 
I should like to thank them all for their
efforts in the past year.
As to the future, your Board intends to
focus on the Group’s operational and
financial management in the coming year 
in order to improve market share, operating
margins and return on capital employed,
particularly in the UK. We look forward 
to the year ending 30 April 2005 with
guarded optimism.
Cob Stenham
Chairman
5 July 2004
