 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2005 
04
In concluding last year’s report I noted 
that your Board intended to focus on 
the Group’s operational and ﬁnancial
management in the coming year in order 
to improve market share, operating margins
and return on capital employed, particularly
in the UK, and that we looked forward 
with guarded optimism. During the year
under review we have advanced our twin
objectives of improving trading performance
while at the same time strengthening our
ﬁnancial position.
The management team should be
congratulated on the result which saw last
year’s pre-tax loss of £33. 1m turned into a
pre-tax proﬁt of £16.4m this year with no
further exceptional items. Before goodwill
amortisation, the pre-tax proﬁt was £25.3m
(2004 - £7.6m before both goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items). 
Return on operating capital employed rose
to 12.6% (2004 – 7 .4%). All three of our
businesses contributed to this performance.
The Group’s ﬁnancial structure is also 
now much stronger. Following April 2004’s
£120m 12% senior secured notes issue
which, at the time, was key to the
subsequent recovery, in November 2004 
we successfully introduced a $675m ﬁrst
priority secured asset based senior bank
debt facility. Most recently we announced
with our preliminary results, a placing and
open offer of ordinary shares to raise
approximately £66m net of issue costs
which together with concurrent issue of
$250m of new senior notes will provide 
the ﬁnance to redeem early the outstanding
5.25% convertible loan note, due 2008 and
to reduce interest costs by exercising the
option to redeem early the maximum 35%
of the £120m 12% senior secured notes. 
When ﬁnalised, these steps will complete
the renewal of all the Group’s debt facilities
and provide a long-term platform for the
Group’s future development. The Board also
expects the reorganisation will enable it to
propose to shareholders the resumption 
of dividends in respect of the year ending 
30 April 2006.
Since my report last year, we have
welcomed two new non-executive directors
to the Board. Gary Iceton joined last August
and brought a wealth of experience in sales
and marketing which proved very helpful 
as we renewed our focus on growth. 
Geoff Drabble joined us at the end of 
April and already his active current
executive experience at Laird Group,
especially in running businesses in the US,
has proved of assistance. Gary has joined
the Audit Committee and Geoff the
Remuneration Committee ensuring that
both Committees now again comprise 
three independent non-executive directors.
Philip Lovegrove who has served on the
Board since the Company’s formation in
1984 will be stepping down this autumn.
His contribution to the Company’s
development has been substantial and 
I should like to take this opportunity to
express our gratitude. 
In line with latest Corporate Governance
practice, your Board has also reviewed the
effectiveness of its operation and that of its
Committees. Aided by a 100% attendance
record we were able to conclude positively
on this review. 
Looking forward, your Board believes the
strong US and stable UK markets, coupled
with the operational expertise of the
Group’s management and staff, should lead
to improved results during the coming year.
I should like to end this report by thanking
on your behalf all of the Group’s staff 
who in the last year delivered an
outstanding performance.
Cob Stenham
Chairman
6 July 2005
Chairman’ s
Report
Cob Stenham
Chairman
