 Chairman’s 
report 
The year saw the Group move  
forward strongly…with underlying  
pre-tax profits of £67.5m just over  
triple last year’s £22.4m
The	 year	 saw	 the	 Group	 move	 forward	 strongly,	 particularly	 in	 the	 United	 States,	 with	 underlying	 pre-tax	 profits	 of	 £67.5m	 just	 over	 triple	 last	 year’s	 £22.4m.	 We	 also	 invested	 heavily	 to	 ensure	 that	 our	 fleet	 age	 remained	 competitive,	 spending	 £220.2m	 in	 the	 year,	 almost	 double	 our	 depreciation	 charge.	 £64.5m	 was	 for	 growth	 with	 the	 balance	 representing	 replacement	 or	 maintenance	 expenditure.	 We	 also	 spent	 $100m	 on	 acquisitions	 in	 the	 US.	 With	 the	 support	 of	 shareholders	 in	 last	 summer’s	 equity	 placing,	 we	 also	 further	 strengthened	 the	 balance	 sheet	 and	 provided	 an	 appropriate	 platform	 from	 which	 to	 execute	 our	 growth	 plans.
Cliff	 Miller	 and	 the	 Sunbelt	 team	 took	 advantage	 of	 the	 strong	 market	 conditions	 in	 the	 US	 to	 deliver	 an	 impressive	 24%	 revenue	 growth	 to	 $818.7m	 (2005:	 $661.1m)	 and	 operating	 profits	 up	 63%	 to	 $175.5m	 (2005:	 $107.9m).	 Whilst	 19%	 of	 the	 revenue	 growth	 was	 same	 store,	 	 we	 also	 welcomed	 to	 the	 Group	 the	 staff	 of	 16	 new	 profit	 centres	 acquired	 during	 the	 year	 in	 the	 Florida,	 Southern	 California,	 Las	 Vegas,	 Indianapolis	 and	 Tennessee	 markets	 as	 well	 as	 Sunbelt’s	 six	 new	 openings.	 The	 acquisitions	 delivered	 an	 excellent	 first	 year	 return.
The	 Board	 was	 also	 pleased	 to	 note	 the	 success	 of	 the	 new	 national	 sales	 force	 structure	 in	 A-Plant	 which	 drove	 a	 rise	 both	 in	 its	 profitability	 and	 rate	 of	 return.	 We	 look	 for	 these	 trends	 to	 continue	 in	 the	 coming	 year.	 Ashtead	 Technology	 also	 delivered	 solid	 growth	 in	 revenues	 and	 profit	 and	 continues	 to	 earn	 the	 highest	 returns	 in	 the	 Group.	 At	 A-Plant	 in	 particular,	 we	 face	 very	 different	 market	 conditions	 to	 those	 which	 prevail	 in	 the	 US	 and	 its	 staff	 and	 management	 are	 to	 be	 congratulated	 on	 the	 progress	 made	 in	 the	 past	 year.
These	 strong	 results	 and	 the	 strengthening	 of	 the	 balance	 sheet	 last	 summer	 enabled	 the	 Board	 to	 announce	 the	 resumption	 of	 dividend	 payments	 last	 December.	 Accordingly	 an	 interim	 dividend	 of	 0.5p	 	 per	 share	 was	 paid	 in	 February	 and	 the	 Board	 is	 recommending	 a	 	 final	 dividend	 of	 1.0p	 per	 share.	 If	 approved	 at	 the	 forthcoming	 Annual	 General	 Meeting,	 this	 will	 be	 paid	 on	 28	 September	 2006	 to	 shareholders	 	 on	 the	 register	 on	 28	 July	 2006.
At	 Board	 level	 we	 saw	 no	 changes	 in	 the	 past	 year.	 However,	 as	 we	 announced	 with	 the	 release	 of	 the	 preliminary	 results	 on	 28	 June	 2006,	 02	 	 Ashtead Group plc	 Annual	 report	 and	 accounts	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 30	 April	 2006 International	 equipment	 rental George	 Burnett	 will	 be	 retiring	 from	 his	 role	 as	 chief	 executive	 at	 the	 end	 of	 2006.	 George	 co-founded	 Ashtead	 in	 1984	 when	 he	 and	 a	 fellow	 investor	 purchased	 what	 was	 then	 a	 five	 branch	 business	 trading	 in	 	 the	 south-east	 of	 England	 with	 revenues	 of	 £1m.	 George	 has	 been	 instrumental	 in	 all	 the	 key	 steps	 undertaken	 by	 the	 Group	 since	 that	 time.	 Since	 George	 assumed	 the	 role	 of	 Group	 Chief	 Executive	 in	 February	 2000	 he	 has	 successfully	 led	 the	 Group	 through	 the	 US	 economic	 downturn	 of	 2001/2	 and	 the	 turbulent	 times	 which	 followed	 and	 has	 overseen	 the	 recovery	 with	 profits	 now	 at	 record	 levels.	 George	 well	 deserves	 to	 enjoy	 his	 forthcoming	 retirement	 and,	 on	 behalf	 of	 my	 fellow	 directors,	 the	 Company’s	 shareholders	 and	 its	 employees,	 	 I	 would	 like	 to	 thank	 George	 for	 his	 leadership	 in	 developing	 the	 Group	 into	 one	 of	 the	 largest	 equipment	 rental	 businesses	 in	 the	 world	 and	 to	 record	 our	 best	 wishes	 for	 the	 future.
At	 the	 same	 time	 I	 would	 like	 to	 introduce	 our	 new	 Chief	 Executive,	 	 Geoff	 Drabble	 and	 to	 welcome	 him	 to	 his	 new	 role	 in	 the	 Company.	 	 Geoff	 joined	 the	 Board	 in	 2005	 following	 our	 search	 for	 a	 non-executive	 director	 with	 substantial	 experience	 of	 running	 businesses	 in	 the	 US.	 	 He	 is	 currently	 an	 executive	 director	 of	 the	 Laird	 Group	 where	 he	 is	 responsible	 for	 the	 Building	 Products	 division.	 Geoff	 has	 extensive	 experience	 of	 managing	 businesses	 with	 operations	 in	 both	 the	 US	 	 and	 the	 UK	 from	 both	 his	 time	 with	 Laird	 and	 previously	 with	 Black	 &	 Decker.	 We	 are	 certain	 that,	 in	 his	 new	 role,	 Geoff	 will	 bring	 both	 an	 understanding	 and	 continuity	 of	 our	 strategy	 whilst	 also	 providing	 renewed	 focus	 on	 all	 aspects	 of	 the	 Group’s	 operations.	 Geoff	 emerged	 as	 the	 Nomination	 Committee’s	 preferred	 candidate	 after	 an	 extensive	 external	 and	 internal	 search	 and	 we	 are	 delighted	 he	 has	 agreed	 to	 	 join	 Ashtead	 as	 its	 next	 Chief	 Executive.	 Geoff	 will	 be	 available	 to	 start	 	 full	 time	 in	 his	 new	 role	 from	 early	 October	 and	 will	 benefit	 from	 a	 handover	 period	 working	 alongside	 George	 until	 his	 retirement	 at	 the	 	 end	 of	 the	 year.
Amongst	 the	 other	 Board	 members,	 Philip	 Lovegrove	 remained	 on	 the	 Board	 longer	 than	 I	 had	 anticipated	 this	 time	 last	 year.	 Like	 George,	 he	 has	 served	 on	 the	 Company’s	 Board	 since	 1984	 and	 for	 a	 long	 time	 was	 the	 sole	 non-executive.	 As	 a	 member	 of	 the	 FTSE	 250	 the	 Combined	 Code	 requires	 that	 the	 Company	 has	 at	 least	 an	 equal	 number	 of	 independent	 non-executive	 directors	 as	 there	 are	 executive	 directors,	 not	 counting	 myself.	 Your	 Board	 endorses	 these	 principles	 and	 accordingly	 	 is	 initiating	 a	 search	 for	 a	 new	 independent	 non-executive	 to	 replace	 Philip	 (who	 cannot	 be	 classed	 as	 independent	 under	 the	 rules	 of	 the	 Code	 because	 of	 the	 length	 of	 his	 service	 as	 a	 director)	 before	 the	 end	 	 of	 the	 current	 financial	 year.	 I	 therefore	 wish	 to	 record	 the	 Company’s	 thanks	 to	 Philip	 for	 his	 expertise	 and	 advice	 over	 many	 years.
In	 closing,	 I	 should	 like	 to	 thank	 all	 the	 Group’s	 employees	 for	 their	 continuing	 efforts	 on	 behalf	 of	 the	 Company	 in	 the	 past	 demanding	 	 but	 successful	 year.
Cob Stenham
Chairman
27	 June	 2006
£638m
Group	 revenue	 up	 from	 2005	 by	 21.8%	 from	 £523.7	 million.
03	 	 Ashtead Group plc	 Annual	 report	 and	 accounts	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 30	 April	 2006 www.ashtead-group.com
