 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 6
A YEAR OF TRANSITION AND GROWTH
I am delighted to be presenting my ﬁrst annual report as the new chief
executive of Ashtead following the retirement of George Burnett. George
made an enormous contribution to Ashtead over 22 years and on behalf 
of all Ashtead employees, I would like to thank him for his unstinting
dedication to the Group. Having joined Ashtead as a non-executive director
in April 2005 and become chief executive designate in October 2006, I was
fortunate to have the opportunity of working alongside George to ensure
management continuity and a seamless transition.
The year also saw a change in chairman following the sad and untimely
death of Cob Stenham. Cob will be greatly missed by us all both for his
professional drive and knowledge and the personal ﬂair that he brought 
to the business. In Chris Cole, however, we have gained a chairman with 
a deep understanding of construction markets as a result of his position 
as chief executive of WSP Group plc, together with extensive experience 
of Ashtead and its management team, having been a director since 
January 2002.
Growth from both organic revenue improvement and acquisition form 
key elements of our strategy and 2006/7 saw notable activity. Our Group
revenue for the year was £896m, up 40% on the £638m reported last year.
During the year we enjoyed organic growth in all markets through a
combination of good overall market conditions and market share gains. In
addition, the Group moved forward signiﬁcantly with the acquisition of US
rental company NationsRent in August 2006 for $1bn, creating the second
largest rental company both in the US and globally, serving principally the
non-residential construction market. October 2006’s £15.5m acquisition of
Lux Trafﬁc Controls in the UK and its immediate integration with A-Plant’s
existing trafﬁc management operations makes us the largest provider of
rental trafﬁc systems in the UK.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Ashtead aims to be a leader in the global equipment rental business
delivering strong returns for its investors through the exploitation of
growth opportunities and by being world class at what we do.We aim to
achieve these objectives by generating strong organic growth combined
with growth through acquisition as well as delivering high levels of
customer satisfaction.
GEOFF DRABBLE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
AS6554_Ashtead_front_V4.qxd  11/7/07  11:54 am  Page 6 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 7
THE NATIONSRENT ACQUISITION
The acquisition of NationsRent provided a unique opportunity to make 
a step change in the size of the Group in North America. The acquisition
provided scale with very little overlap at proﬁt centre level and allowed 
us to accelerate our clustering principle in key markets such as Florida,
Texas and California. In addition, it provided us with access to new markets,
particularly in the US North East and Upper Mid West.
Both businesses used the same computerised point of sale operating
system and the age and composition of their ﬂeet was similar to our 
own.We were conﬁdent that our business model, based around highly
incentivised proﬁt centres operating with a large amount of autonomy
would improve the ﬁnancial return from the NationsRent assets. Also,
signiﬁcant recurring cost savings were available from integrating central 
and regional functions.
To date we have achieved all our milestones in terms of the integration and
we enter the new ﬁnancial year with a single business focused on further
organic growth. The acquisition was funded by a rights issue which raised
approximately £150m, drawings under a new $1.75bn senior secured credit
facility and $550m of new senior loan notes.
DELIVERING PROFITABLE GROWTH
Underlying operating proﬁt at £150.5m was up 35.5% on the £111.1m
reported last year. On a pro forma basis operating proﬁt was up 34.0% to
£161.2m. Reﬂecting the 38% increase in the number of shares outstanding
following August’s rights issue, we achieved underlying earnings per share 
of 10.3p (2006: 11.3p).
All three divisions, Sunbelt, A-Plant and Ashtead Technology, saw good
organic growth in both revenue and underlying operating proﬁt.Whilst
there are differences in the geographies and markets they serve, the rental
business model is the same.
There were signiﬁcant exceptional costs, fair value remeasurements 
and intangible amortisation totalling £117.9m (2006: credit of £14.2m).
The majority of these costs were associated with the funding of the
NationsRent transaction and realising the synergy beneﬁts available from
the acquisition. As all of the structural integration activity is now complete
we do not expect any further exceptional costs associated with this
transaction in 2007/8.
Net borrowings at the year-end were £915.9m (2006: £493.6m).We have
stated our policy of managing our ﬁnancial structure to sustain a net debt
to EBITDA ratio in the range of 2 to 3 times in most circumstances. As a
result of the acquisition, we reached temporarily the upper end of this
range. By year-end we were at 2.7 times and anticipate reaching the
midpoint of the range, based on normal operational activity, in 2007/8.
MAINTAINING THE MOMENTUM OF THE GROUP
We expect to continue to develop the Group through a combination of
organic growth and acquisition, while ensuring we have both the ﬁnancial
and managerial resource to execute and integrate an acquisition successfully.
Realising the organic growth potential from the acquired NationsRent
assets will remain a key area of focus in 2008. Utilising the reconﬁgured
ﬂeet, we intend to access a broader customer base than just the pure 
non-residential contractor, which will allow us to both develop new higher
return markets and provide an important breadth of revenue generation.
Sunbelt’s underlying pro forma
operating proﬁt
$272m
up 43%
A-Plant’s underlying pro forma
operating proﬁt
£21m
up 40%
Ashtead T echnology’s 
operating proﬁt
£6m
up 57% at constant
exchange rates
AS6554_Ashtead_front_V4.qxd  11/7/07  11:54 am  Page 7 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 8
A-Plant is positioned for yet further improvement. Its existing momentum
will be supported by further investment in ﬂeet and an improved proﬁt
centre infrastructure. In April, we began to implement a new investment
programme for A-Plant. This will involve the restructuring of its proﬁt centre
infrastructure over the coming year to create fewer, larger sites with higher
levels of activity. These larger pools of equipment and staff will improve
operational efﬁciency and enable A-Plant to meet the needs of its
customers better. An exceptional charge of £6.2m was recorded in the
fourth quarter in respect of, principally, vacant premises costs at the proﬁt
centres which will be closed as a result of the new investment plan.
Ashtead Technology will continue to develop both its onshore and offshore
markets which remain strong. In offshore, as well as the traditionally strong
markets in the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico,West Africa and Asia are
becoming increasingly important. The need for oil and gas exploration to
access deeper waters, together with the development of new ﬁelds will
continue to provide opportunities for future growth.The onshore markets in
both environmental monitoring and non-destructive testing are developing
well. Additionally, the aging of production assets and increasing health and
safety requirements in the offshore oil industry will also drive higher levels
of maintenance from which we should beneﬁt. Finally, there is a signiﬁcant
opportunity to leverage the onshore business through Sunbelt’s locations
and industrial customers.
Acquisitions have been, and will continue to form, a key part of our
strategy. Acquisitions are made to expand both our geographic footprint
and the range of products which we offer.We bring value to our
acquisitions by introducing our successful business model and providing 
the beneﬁt of scale.When appropriate we will continue to look for 
value-enhancing bolt-on acquisitions to support our clusters in existing
geographies.We will look also to develop our specialist businesses following
the successful acquisition of Lux Trafﬁc Controls, the leading player in the
niche UK trafﬁc market. Our specialist businesses generate higher added
value as our customer base looks to outsource their planning and technical
requirements as well as renting equipment.
We are a service business and we differentiate ourselves by the strength of
our service offering. Central to our service offering are our people and our
systems.We now have a 10,000 strong Ashtead team. The nature of our
business requires skilled, entrepreneurial individuals working within a highly
devolved structure.We achieve this through a dedication to training and 
an industry leading reward and recognition scheme. The industry generally
suffers from high staff turnover, particularly within certain job categories
and within the ﬁrst year of employment.We have made good progress in
improving our staff retention in recent years with a lower level of leavers as
shown in the chart opposite. This will remain a key performance indicator
going forward.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
CONTINUED
AS6554_Ashtead_front_V4.qxd  11/7/07  11:54 am  Page 8 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 9
We place signiﬁcant importance on the use of systems to improve our
efﬁciency. For example, each of our divisions operates integrated on line
point of sale systems which provide signiﬁcant advantages to our
employees and customers due to the visibility these single, company-wide
systems provide. Our extranets allow key aspects of the customer
relationship to be managed electronically. In addition, in the UK, our on line
telematics and tracking system enables qualifying customers to see exactly
where major items of equipment are at any time including if they have
been stolen. Already there have been many instances where these tracking
devices have facilitated swift recovery in the event of theft, saving our
customers the cost of providing us with a replacement for the lost item.
Information technology will play an even greater role in rental in the future,
driven by the need to minimise transportation costs and the need for
enhanced asset visibility. Major projects such as the 2012 Olympics will
accelerate this change. Ashtead is at the forefront of these changes and 
we will continue to use our technology as a differentiator.
EMPLOYEES
Ashtead is a leader in its industry because of its people and I would like to
thank all our employees for their hard work and dedication. Our employees
are often called upon to help our customers and their management teams
through difﬁcult situations, whether that be providing crucial equipment at
short notice or getting a facility up and running again after a major incident
such as water damage.The pride and passion demonstrated by our employees
makes our customers know they can depend on us to get things moving.
OUTLOOK
Across the Group, the business has developed well in the past year and the
NationsRent acquisition provides continuing opportunity from integration
beneﬁts and positions us well for further growth. The markets for all three
divisions remain strong and the drive to rental, due to both the ﬁnancial
and operational beneﬁts of outsourcing, will continue, particularly in North
America. Given the success of the NationsRent integration to date, we are
well positioned to achieve further progress in the coming year. Ashtead 
will remain focused on delivery of our objective of creating and growing
shareholder value.
GEOFF DRABBLE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
25 June 2007
05
41.0
05
33.1
06
32.3
30.6
06 07 07
29.2
25.9
Employee turnover (%)
A-Plant
Sunbelt ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 10
GETTING THINGS GOING
AGAIN AFTER A DISASTER
After a hurricane, a ﬁre, a ﬂood or any kind of disaster, we can respond immediately and provide the
equipment and expertise required to clean up, provide power and get the disaster recovery moving
ahead at full steam.When a four storey apartment building in Boston caught ﬁre, Sunbelt received a
Friday night call for help. On Saturday morning, Sunbelt delivered critical equipment the contractors
needed to begin the recovery process from the damage caused by the ﬁre, smoke and water used to
extinguish the ﬁre and dampen the job site. Equipment included aerial man lifts, dehumidiﬁers and
generators to supply the power required for lighting, ventilation and interior remediation and
restoration equipment. One call was all it took to initiate the entire effort.
AS6554_Ashtead_front_V4.qxd  11/7/07  11:54 am  Page 10 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 11
FACILITATING MAJOR EVENTS
Ashtead is often asked to provide the behind-the-scenes equipment without which many major
events would never happen.We rent a wide variety of equipment used at rock concerts, music
festivals, sporting events and many other venues. In Charlotte, North Carolina, Sunbelt plays a 
critical role in race week, which culminates in NASCAR’s longest race, the Coca-Cola 600.With over
150,000 fans, the Coca-Cola 600 is one of the most popular races in the Nextel Cup Series. Each
year, Lowe’s Motor Speedway relies on Sunbelt because they count on its range of equipment and
the unparalleled level of service they receive.
AS6554_Ashtead_front_V4.qxd  11/7/07  11:54 am  Page 11 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 12
SUPPORTING THE
REDEVELOPMENT OF
LONDON’S OLDEST HOSPITALS
Following the award by the UK government of the largest ever Public Finance Initiative contract,
rather than maintain and service all the necessary equipment themselves, the contractor turned 
to A-Plant to fulﬁl this role. The 10 year project to redevelop St Bartholomew’s and Royal London
hospitals involves investment of more than £1bn. A-Plant will be on site permanently during the
project, allowing equipment needs to be fulﬁlled quickly through one point of contact, whether the
equipment is for the main contractor or their sub-contractors. As well as providing heavy construction
equipment, A-Plant is also supplying the personal protection equipment for workers on the site, their
goggles, hard hats and gloves to ensure this major project beneﬁts from the full range of our services.
AS6554_Ashtead_front_V4.qxd  12/7/07  12:51 pm  Page 12 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 13
ENABLING OUR
CUSTOMERS TO
CONTROL TRAFFIC
Our A-Plant Lux Trafﬁc division is the UK leader in providing
trafﬁc control solutions on a rental basis.Whether our
customer needs a single set of trafﬁc lights or a complex high
speed trafﬁc management system, we provide a complete
service from beginning to end.We can be called upon to 
carry out a risk assessment on site, prepare scale drawings,
and submit the necessary documents to the local authority
for approval prior to installing the necessary equipment,
monitoring it throughout the life of the project and
dismantling it at the end. Safety is a critical component of
trafﬁc management and our customers look to us to help
them ensure everything works smoothly. Our in-house training
has proved so effective that we now provide it to outside
organisations including the Highways Agency, major utilities,
civil engineering contractors and even police authorities.
AS6554_Ashtead_front_V4.qxd  11/7/07  11:55 am  Page 13
