 Rightster Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 08
Strategic Report
Chairman’s Report
The Market
The online video market continues to 
evolve at a rapid pace and the size of the 
online video advertising opportunity in 
2017 is expected to be $17 billion in the US 
alone, 33% Compound Annual Growth Rate 
(CAGR) on 2014. Against this backdrop, 
YouTube still plays an important part, 
accounting for $26–40 billion of Google’s 
revenues and appealing to an international 
audience – approximately 80% of YouTube 
traffic is from outside the US (Source: 
Jefferies: The Future of Online Video 
Advertising (v2.0)).
 
The influence of YouTube stars has gained 
traction. In a recent survey in the US, 
it was found that, amongst the teenage 
population, YouTube stars were more 
popular than mainstream celebrities 
(Source: Variety.com 5 August 2014). With 
their loyal subscribers, YouTubers have  
the power to connect Brands with huge, 
incredibly engaged online audiences.  
This arena has led to the emergence of 
Multi-Channel Networks (MCNs) who 
affiliate with multiple YouTube channels in 
order to assist YouTubers in the areas of 
monetisation, channel management and 
cross-promotion. 
 
The significance of MCNs has led to 
many high profile industry deals being 
completed in the last year, including Disney 
acquiring Maker Studios and the Chernin 
Group with AT&T buying Fullscreen, to 
name but a few. Rightster prides itself 
on being one of the few remaining 
independent MCNs and is well regarded in 
the industry, with Robert Kyncl (Google’s 
VP and Global Head of Business at 
YouTube) recently commenting at a 
YouTube brandcast event that ‘Rightster 
is our biggest partner in Europe, the first 
YT MCN to go public and now one of the 
largest MCNs in the world’.
However, we have also noticed a trend 
towards Content Owners, Creators and 
Brands wanting to have a presence off 
YouTube, on new emerging platforms. 
These include Vine, Snapchat and 
Instagram amongst others, as well as more 
specific Publisher sites and blogs. This 
stems from a need to reach and engage 
their desired audience in the most 
effective and cost efficient manner. 
 
Rightster’s Strategy
Rightster is much more than an MCN: 
Rightster is a Multi-Platform Network 
(MPN) with a remit that allows it to 
“ Rightster is now 
positioned as a global 
leader in the rapidly 
expanding online 
video market”
Mark Lieberman  
Non-Executive Chairman
Overview
2014 marked Rightster’s first full year 
on the AIM market and the online video 
marketplace is growing rapidly. We had some 
significant changes with the acquisition of 
Base79 and Viral Spiral, moving into new 
offices in Covent Garden and, more recently, 
the transition to a new CEO. We also saw 
some substantial growth across the business. 
Our average monthly video views grew an 
impressive 404% year-on-year, with Q4 
bringing in, on average, 1.4 billion monthly 
video views. Our net revenues also 
demonstrated significant scale over that 
timeframe, increasing from £6.2 million 
in 2013 (which, after adjusting for the 
terminated Serie A contract, were £3.0 
million), to £8.7 million in 2014. Our network 
both on and off YouTube also scaled 
significantly with Content Owners growing 
from 850 to over 2,500 and Publishers 
growing from 7,500 to over 10,500.
  09 Rightster Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014  
maximise opportunities for clients both  
on and off YouTube as YouTube is just one 
piece of the online video puzzle.
 
There are a myriad of platforms through 
which Rightster can distribute content, 
ranging from Facebook and Twitter to 
Brightcove and Ooyala. Rightster is able  
to work with all these platforms as well as 
manage content on Vine, Instagram and 
Snapchat. We also have a network of 
Publishers we can distribute content to 
including The Independent, the Evening 
Standard and publications managed by 
Hearst, Bauer Media and Northern & Shell, 
as well as numerous blogs. In addition, 
Rightster’s software has the capability to 
distribute content to a Content Owner’s 
own site, if preferred. This flexibility 
appeals to Content Owners, Creators and 
Brands who are increasingly exploring 
alternative ways to showcase content and 
maximise commercial value.
 
All this gives Rightster a competitive 
advantage. It is platform neutral, enabling 
Content Owners, Creators and Brands to 
reach the right audience through the right 
place at the right time. As it is independent, 
Rightster is also content neutral, attracting 
Publishers with its diverse array of 
premium and wide-ranging genre of 
content. Our recent acquisition activity has 
enabled Rightster to achieve greater scale 
and has provided an enhanced brand 
proposition that has attracted more high 
value briefs. The resulting geographical 
enhancement has further developed 
Rightster’s local knowledge in every  
major market and builds upon our existing 
global footprint.
Mergers and Acquisitions
To further accelerate Rightster’s growth, we 
previously stated that we would consider 
strategic acquisition opportunities. Our 
influence in the online video space was 
bolstered in 2014 by two significant 
acquisitions – namely Base79 and Viral 
Spiral. Base79 brought with it a specialism 
in YouTube rights management, talent 
expertise and brand partnerships, whilst 
Viral Spiral brought expertise in licensing, 
social video management and brand 
engagement. Both also provided world-
class executives who have enhanced 
Rightster’s management team. Following 
the acquisitions, Rightster is now positioned 
as a global leader in the rapidly expanding 
online video market and is one of the 
largest MCNs outside North America.
 
The combined offering has brought 
significant scale benefits with Media 
Agencies and Brands. Rightster now 
regularly receives brand briefs of £500k 
and upwards. Rightster has also been able 
to improve the service it offers Content 
Owners, Creators and Publishers with 
its ability to grow bigger audiences and 
increase monetisation capabilities.
 
The integration of the two businesses into 
Rightster is now almost complete and, 
as expected, cost synergies have been 
identified that will be realised in 2015. 
A recent strategic review of its global 
operations has led to the Company 
deciding to close its technology centre in 
Bangalore and consolidate its development 
activities in London to better align the 
Company’s technology organisation. 
A number of roles across Europe have 
also been identified as no longer required. 
Overall, I am pleased to report that this 
will result in an annualised cost saving of 
approximately £3 million in 2015.
 
Performance
The Board are pleased with the Company’s 
performance in 2014, in particular the 
net revenues of £8.7 million which were 
achieved, an increase of £2.5 million 
compared to prior year (and, if allowing for 
the terminated Serie A contract in 2013, an 
increase of £5.7 million) – an encouraging 
growth story.
Despite Rightster’s ongoing success 
throughout the year, we believe this has 
not been reflected in the Company’s share 
price performance. The new management 
team aim to communicate the market 
opportunity and Rightster’s strategy more 
clearly in 2015 and have already indicated 
their expectations for net revenues, 
anticipated to grow 80–100% in 2015, 
continuing Rightster’s growth story.
 
Whilst it is expected that a tiered pricing 
model powered by the new software 
platform will contribute to these revenue 
streams, we consider that these benefits 
will be realised towards the end of 2015/
early 2016, with cash flow breakeven 
expected in 2016.
 
Board and Management Changes
Throughout 2014, the Board continued 
their strong working relationship and 
combined their various areas of expertise 
to good effect. In September, the Company 
announced that Charl de Beer had given 
the Board notice of his intention to step 
down as CFO in order to return to his home 
in South Africa. Charl continued to direct 
Rightster’s finance activities until his 
departure date in December and, in order 
to facilitate a smooth transition, David 
Mathewson, Non-Executive Director 
(previously CFO of Playtech Limited), took 
on a more hands-on-role leading the search 
for Mr de Beer’s successor.
 
I would like to thank Charl for his significant 
contribution to the business over the last 
three years and welcome his successor, 
Niall Dore, to the Company. Niall joined in 
January 2015 from Experian Consumer 
Services where he was Interim Finance 
Director for UK & Ireland. He previously 
held the position of Finance Director  
at Betfair Group plc for over five years 
(including a year as Interim Group CFO). 
Niall not only brings public market 
experience to the Company but also a 
proven ability to execute different business 
models across the digital and technology 
sectors on a global scale, with a strong 
focus on creating shareholder value.
 
More recently, in January 2015, the 
Company announced the transition to a new 
CEO, Patrick Walker. As we enter the next 
stage of Rightster’s growth, with a strong 
focus on multi-national operational 
efficiency and getting to profitability, 
Charlie Muirhead and the Board decided 
it was the right time to appoint a successor.  
I would like to thank Charlie for his 
dedication to the Company and welcome 
Patrick, who, since the acquisition of Base79, 
has served as the Group Chief Commercial 
Officer. Patrick has held a number of senior 
roles in the sector including Chief Content 
Officer at Base79 and Senior Director of 
Content Partnerships at YouTube, where he 
was responsible for launching and managing 
YouTube in EMEA. The Board are delighted 
that someone of Patrick’s stature in the 
online video industry will succeed Charlie 
and lead the next phase of growth. Charlie 
Muirhead ceased to be a Director of the 
Company on 6 May 2015.
 
Patrick will be supported by a top-class 
management team, strengthened through 
the addition of new members from the 
recently acquired companies. These include 
Daniel Fisher and Damian Collier from Viral 
Spiral, and Nick Savage, Ian Samuel and Ben 
Lister from Base79. I am pleased to report 
that this very capable team has integrated 
well and are already driving new combined 
opportunities to clients.
 
Looking Ahead
On behalf of the Board, I would like to 
extend my thanks to the investors who 
have supported us over the course of  
2014, the partners who have utilised  
our services and to all the employees for 
their hard work and dedication. I look 
forward to Rightster’s next phase of 
growth in 2015, when we will roll out our 
proven combined offering to a broader 
range of international clients whilst 
ensuring a renewed focus on operational 
efficiency across the entire business.
Mark Lieberman
Non-Executive Chairman
6 May 2015
