 Rightster Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 16
Strategic Report
CEO’s Statement
Introduction
I have been fortunate in my career to 
witness first hand how technology can 
enhance and amplify storytelling, and how 
great content can lead people around the 
world to adopt new technology. From 
being a young producer on the world’s first 
Hi-Definition TV broadcasts in Tokyo, to 
leading YouTube’s maiden launches outside 
the US, the excitement, disruption and 
opportunity found at the crossroads of 
technology and content has thrilled and 
inspired me. Today, as the CEO of Rightster, 
I’m honoured to lead a Company that is 
truly at the forefront of this ongoing digital 
video (r)evolution, and more enthusiastic 
about the opportunity than ever. 
“ I’m honoured to lead a 
company that is truly 
at the forefront of this 
ongoing digital video 
(r)evolution”
Patrick Walker 
Chief Executive Officer
We started 2014 with a promise to 
become the ‘upload once, commercialise 
everywhere’ online video network and  
I am pleased to say that we are continuing 
to deliver on our vision with a deeper 
emphasis on operational efficiency 
and execution. With the work of our 
exceptionally talented team, we will focus 
on three main areas in 2015 – creating an 
invigorating work environment, building 
and delivering the best products, and 
generating great results for our clients. 
2014 was a year of transition for Rightster, 
expanding on the successes of 2013  
and capitalising on the opportunities 
presented by the acquisitions of Base79 
and Viral Spiral. With this newly formed 
organisation, we cemented our 
commitment to creating a Multi-Platform 
Network that delivers real value and 
insights to Content Owners, Creators  
and Brands. There have been challenges 
merging three companies with unique 
cultures and products in a short amount  
of time, but we have experienced many 
positives too. Revenue is increasing by 
delivering on cross-company synergies, 
new and existing clients are tapping into 
our combined knowledge base, and new 
territories are opening through our local 
presence in the most important global 
media centres. We have scale and clear 
differentiation now. 
Technology
At Rightster, we believe that technology 
is the difference that enables us to 
outperform the competition and unlock 
new opportunities. To scale our service 
offering to all of our constituents globally, 
cost effectively and at pace with the 
expanding and constantly changing online 
video market, we must deliver a powerful, 
reliable product. And if eight years as a 
senior executive at Google taught me 
anything, we must also be nimble: 
launching, learning, adapting and  
trying again. 
In Q4 2014, we successfully launched live 
trials of our second-generation Rightster 
platform, which provides clients with a 
more self-service-oriented feature set. In 
2015, we began integrating our existing 
and acquired technology into this one 
platform for greater cost efficiency and 
impact with a unique common data set. We 
continue to transition existing clients onto 
the Rightster platform, and are inducting 
new clients as we sign them. We will 
introduce a new, tiered pricing model as 
the software platform evolves, enabling  17 Rightster Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014  
users to unlock additional features and 
support. We will realise the benefits from 
additional revenue streams toward late 
2015/early 2016.
Partnerships
2014 began with a focus on adding content 
Creators and expanding internationally. 
In addition to a growing roster of YouTube 
and social video stars such as Wrotetoshaw 
with 4 million subscribers, we secured 
noteworthy wins by adding premium 
content to our news network in the form of 
Agence France-Presse whilst securing deals 
with the International Boxing Association, 
and the International Table Tennis 
Federation in sport. We also entered into a 
partnership with Europe’s largest privately 
owned magazine group, Bauer Media, and 
the lifestyle programmers Scripps Networks 
International. Our film vertical is perhaps 
the most comprehensive, including the 
world’s largest studios, Warner Bros, 
Paramount, 20th Century Fox, Universal, 
and Walt Disney.
In focusing on international expansion, 
we’ve witnessed significant growth in the 
Asia Pacific region led by our GM APAC, 
Richard North, who joined us from Google/
YouTube. Noteworthy deals include the 
Publishers Bauer Media Australia and 
Unscriptd, a content sourcing deal with 
News Corp Australia, and a YouTube deal 
with the smash hit kids phenomenon The 
Wiggles. In India, significant deals included 
a YouTube and content syndication deal 
with Lehren Networks and a content 
sourcing partnership with the popular 
news site, India.com. The focus of the APAC 
region in 2015 will be on winning new deals 
across an expanded footprint in Asia as 
well as collaborating with media agencies 
and Brands.
In the US, we’ve added significant deals to 
our client base including an international 
partnership with 20th Century Fox,  
now expanded to 17 territories, and with 
the popular children’s content provider  
The Jim Henson Company. Our team is also 
actively signing YouTube Creators, adding 
upcoming stars such as Jesse La Flair (a 
parkour athlete), Hollywood TV, and Kaitlin 
Witcher to our roster. Other deals include 
an off YouTube distribution deal for Fox 
Sports and a deal to manage Legends 
Football League’s YouTube channel.
As advertisers begin to shift spending from 
TV to online video, we have been actively 
responding to an increasing number of 
briefs from Brands that need technical and 
creative guidance engaging with online 
audiences. In October 2014, Rightster won 
the high profile client Turkish Airlines and 
helped facilitate its innovative global 
YouTube campaign involving some of the 
world’s biggest YouTube stars (such as 
Devin Supertramp and Damian Walters).  
By utilising Rightster’s expertise in creating 
branded content, Turkish Airlines was able 
to reach a global audience. More recently, 
we have gained further momentum from 
a partnership with Microsoft Lumia, using 
our relationship with high-profile YouTube 
video bloggers to help promote the 
#lumiamusic campaign in conjunction with 
Warner Music, the Dentsu Aegis Network, 
and the award-winning band Clean Bandit.
We also pride ourselves on breaking new 
ground with first-of-a-kind deals. Most 
notably, Rightster succeeded in winning 
a bid to enter into a 3.5 year deal with the 
Arts Council England, worth £1.8 million, to 
establish and manage their multi-channel 
online video network for the arts. Rightster 
also became the first ever online video 
partner for Formula E, the world’s first 
fully electric racing series, and entered 
into a partnership with Sony Music 
Entertainment, utilising the popularity of 
YouTube beauty video bloggers such as 
Nikkie Tutorials (with more than 600,000 
subscribers) to promote the release of 
Paloma Faith’s new album.
Strategy
Rightcasting is as a natural evolution of the 
digital age. First there was broadcasting – 
namely television, satellite, and cable 
companies distributing entertainment. 
Then came narrow-casting, where 
technology was used to build niche 
destinations and personalised content. 
In 2014, we introduced what we call 
‘Rightcasting’ – using software, data, and 
networks to put the right video in front 
of the right audience in the right place 
at the right time. This provides clarity to 
prospective clients on the nature of our 
comprehensive services.
Our main stakeholders benefit from this 
overarching approach: 
• Content Owners: Rightster provides the 
technology to distribute their content 
through a selection of platforms by 
using our network’s global scale, 
enabling them to establish the most 
effective route to their target audience. 
• Publishers: Rightster has the tools to 
source and discover the perfect match 
of content on our network to fit their 
audiences’ desires. 
• Creators: Rightster provides technology 
and expertise to broadcast and 
monetise content more effectively on 
YouTube and other global and  
local platforms and explore cross-
promotional and brand opportunities. 
• Global Brands: Rightster guides Brands 
to key influencers in the online video 
space, and enhances their online 
performance with tools and expertise  
in audience development and channel 
management, enabling them to engage 
audiences in a contextual environment. 
Our aim is to unlock the true potential  
of online video in the most efficient and 
cost-effective way for both our clients  
and Rightster itself. 
Conclusion 
I follow a simple management philosophy 
– we take care of the people, the product, 
and the profits.
Our team was dedicated and resilient 
throughout the transition in 2014.  
Through difficult times, we maintained  
a high level of customer service, we 
continued to sign exciting clients, and  
we effectively collaborated across our 
international offices. 
However, when organisations grow rapidly, 
as Rightster did in 2014, important work can 
go unnoticed, the hardest workers can get 
passed over, and bureaucracy can choke out 
creativity and remove all the gains. My goal 
for 2015 is to build an organisation where 
people can focus on their work and have 
confidence that if they do good work, good 
things will happen for both the Company 
and for them personally. 
Having proven that our combined offering 
is resonating with new and existing clients, 
2015 will be about building a great culture 
and strengthening the product to help us 
build on the early wins and capitalise on 
even greater opportunities in 2015. We  
are thought leaders and disruptors in the 
fast changing and fragmenting world of 
online video. We are in the right place at 
the right time and I’m thrilled to be leading 
the charge.
Patrick Walker
Chief 	 E x ecutiv e 	 Officer
6 May 2015
