 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 4
The Board is recommending a 10% increase in the ﬁnal dividend to 1.1p
per share, making 1.65p for the year, up 10% on last year’s total of 1.5p 
per share. If approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the ﬁnal
dividend will be paid on 28 September to shareholders on the register on
7 September 2007.
I am very pleased to be leading the Board at this exciting time for the
Group, but that sentiment is also tinged with sadness as it comes as a
result of the untimely death in October of Cob Stenham, our previous
chairman. I knew Cob well, having worked alongside him as senior
independent non-executive director since late 2003. Cob provided
invaluable advice over a difﬁcult period in the Company’s history and 
will be much missed for his incisiveness and understanding of the issues 
the Company faced.
Last year also saw the retirement of George Burnett who co-founded
Ashtead in 1984 when he and a fellow investor purchased what was then 
a ﬁve branch business trading in the south-east of England with revenues 
of £1m. George became Group chief executive in February 2000 and led
the Group successfully through several difﬁcult years back to the stability
and proﬁt that we have enjoyed recently. On behalf of the Board and the
Company’s shareholders, I would like to thank George for his contribution
over more than two decades and wish him well in his retirement.
The Board and I are delighted to welcome Geoff Drabble as the new chief
executive of the Company. Geoff is well known to Ashtead as he has been 
a non-executive director since 2005. He joined us full time in an executive
role at the beginning of October 2006 from The Laird Group PLC where 
he was head of Laird’s building products division and an executive director.
Geoff was the preferred candidate of the Nomination Committee after 
an extensive external and internal search. He has experience of managing
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
It has been year of change and strategic growth for Ashtead.We achieved
good progress in our underlying pre-tax proﬁts which were £81.4m, up
20.6% from last year and supported by a step change in the size of the
Group with the acquisition of NationsRent in the US. All our businesses
performed well and we continued to build on the progress demonstrated
over the last two years. The Board has worked hard in recent years to
strengthen the ﬁnancial position of the Company.
CHRIS COLE
CHAIRMAN
AS6554_Ashtead_front_V4.qxd  11/7/07  11:53 am  Page 4 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 5
businesses in the US as well as in the UK, and we are already seeing the
beneﬁts of his operational expertise.
The year saw some other changes in the composition of the Board. Firstly
Philip Lovegrove retired from the Board having, like George, been a director
since 1984. The Board would like to thank him for his valuable contribution
and advice over many years and wishes him well in his retirement.
Following my appointment as chairman, Hugh Etheridge, who has been 
a director since 2004, and who is Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of the Waste 
and Resources Action Programme, has been appointed as our senior
independent non-executive director. In addition, I would like to welcome
Michael Burrow who was appointed in March and Bruce Edwards who 
was appointed in June as new non-executive directors who were selected
carefully for their speciﬁc areas of expertise and experience. Michael was
formerly Managing Director of the Investment Banking Group of Lehman
Brothers Europe Limited and brings a signiﬁcant understanding of the
ﬁnancial markets in which we operate whilst Bruce is responsible currently
for Deutsche Post’s contract logistics functions having previously been a
director of Exel PLC until it was acquired by Deutsche Post.
Following these appointments, the Board is now in compliance with all the
recommendations of the Combined Code regarding Board composition and
importantly, well-balanced to support the Group’s strategic performance
objectives.
The major event for Ashtead in the last year was the acquisition in August
2006 of NationsRent and we are delighted to have found a business whose
store network has a complementary ﬁt with our existing US operations.
The NationsRent locations have already been integrated fully and branded
into the Sunbelt network and our ongoing focus is to drive up utilisation
rates at the acquired proﬁt centres and thus also in the combined business.
The acquisition has made Ashtead the second largest equipment rental
company in the United States and globally, enabling us to beneﬁt from the
strong US market and the progressive move underway in that market from
ownership to rental.
A further important development of the Group in the year was the
acquisition of Lux Trafﬁc Controls in the UK. Its integration with A-Plant’s
existing trafﬁc operations has provided the opportunity for higher 
value-added earnings and helped make us the market leader in trafﬁc
management in the UK. Ashtead Technology also continued to make
excellent progress throughout the year and again presents excellent results.
Concurrently with the NationsRent acquisition, the Group renewed and
extended its debt facilities providing both the capacity required to conclude
the acquisition and signiﬁcant ﬂexibility for the future. Our facilities, a total
of $2.55bn (£1.3bn), are committed for the long term with a weighted
average remaining life of 6.25 years at 30 April 2007 and are essentially
non-amortising. They are also structured in a form appropriate to our
business being reliant principally on our asset cover for security.
As our business expands, acting responsibly and fulﬁlling our obligations as
a good corporate citizen become ever more important.We are committed
to meeting our social, ethical and environmental commitments, to ensuring
the safety of both our employees and our customers, limiting the impact
we make on the environment, and giving back to the communities in which
we do business.We expect to expand our reporting of these important
areas in the coming year.
The commitment and calibre of our people make the difference in a
competitive market and I thank them for their hard work and for their
enthusiasm to make Ashtead the preferred supplier in all our markets. In
addition I welcome our new employees from NationsRent and Lux Trafﬁc
and thank them for their contribution to the successful integration of their
respective businesses.
As we continue to build on the excellent integration and combination 
of the enlarged Sunbelt business in the US, complemented by continuing
improved performance from A-Plant and Ashtead Technology in expected
good markets, I am conﬁdent we can see further growth in all the Group’s
activities in the future leading to enhanced shareholder value.
CHRIS COLE
CHAIRMAN
25 June 2007
Revenues
£896m
up 40%
Underlying pre-tax proﬁts
£81m
up 21%
Dividends
1.65p
up 10%
AS6554_Ashtead_front_V4.qxd  11/7/07  11:53 am  Page 5
