 4 Rightster Group plc Annual Report 201 3
2013 was a significant year for Rightster. Building on the 
cornerstone deals won in 2012, we set out to scale our 
network of Content Owners and Publishers and were 
thrilled to add premium clients such as AFL, IMG, Barcroft, 
Press Association, the Daily Mail, the Evening Standard 
and AOL. Tactical acquisitions enabled us to scale the 
business even more rapidly with Preview Networks 
(Europe’s leading distributor of film trailers) bringing us 
pan-European reach and the assets of Sportsyndicator (a 
UK media sales organisation) securing us a larger network 
of sports Publishers. Improving the platform experience 
for our growing base of clients was also a key focus and 
I’m pleased with how the team have captured client 
requirements and enhanced the feature set of the 
existing platform whilst evolving the design and 
architecture of the forthcoming second generation 
platform in line with client needs.
 
The acceleration in our average monthly view figures 
throughout 2013 is testament to the scale that we’ve 
achieved to date. H1 2013 saw a 30% increase on H2 2012 
(with average monthly video views growing from 123.3 
million to 160.7 million) and H2 2013 saw a further 55% 
increase on H1 2013 (with average monthly video views 
growing from 160.7 million to 249.5 million). The total 
amount of business being facilitated through Rightster  
(in the form of total exchange of revenue between 
Rightster partners) is also showing impressive growth.  
We monitor this as Total Transaction Value and I’m very 
pleased to report that this has risen from £4.0 million  
in 2012 to £11.0 million in 2013.
The acceleration in our 
average monthly view 
figures throughout 201 3 is 
testament to the scale that 
we’ve achieved to date.
CEO’s Report 5 Rightster Group plc Annual Report 201 3
Identifying the potential for a surge in growth in the online 
video market was one of the primary factors that drew me  
to this sector. I also noticed the challenges brought about  
by an ever-expanding amount of Content Owners, most of 
whom were trying to reach the right audience across diverse 
geographies, time zones and multiple devices, whilst a  
growing number of Publishers and platforms tried to locate 
the optimum content for their audiences. In May 2011,  
I founded Rightster with the vision of enabling media 
companies to overcome this huge fragmentation in the  
online video market and build successful businesses online, 
where TV-scale audiences could be engaged and monetised 
effectively. We implemented a three phase approach in order 
to achieve this.
 
The first phase saw us focus on key charter customers to 
achieve proof of concept on the Rightster offering. In the 
fashion vertical, Rightster engaged the British Fashion Council 
(BFC). BFC had no in-house digital video capability but 
possessed premium live and on-demand rights (London 
Fashion Week). Through Rightster’s platform, network and 
services, the BFC was able to reach over 200 Publishers in 130 
countries, unlocking new revenue streams with little upfront 
investment or risk. Through BFC’s live rights, Rightster 
recruited hundreds of key Publishers with an interest in 
fashion content and used this connection to recruit hundreds 
more Content Owners and Publishers both in and outside the 
fashion industry. Rightster was then able to use this ‘audience 
network’ model to enter multiple content genres, including 
sports (where we secured SNTV), news (winning ITN), and 
entertainment and viral content (partnering with Viral Spiral 
Group). By finding premium ‘must have’ rights from blue-chip 
clients, we were able to recruit Publishers, which in turn drove 
further recruitment of Content Owners. Feedback from 
clients was invaluable during this period, ensuring Rightster 
offered the precise ‘minimum viable product’ to the market.
 
The goal of the second phase of growth in 2013 was to  
further automate the platform, drive network effect and 
achieve scale. Key Content Owners we secured during  
this period included AFL, Barcroft, IMG, Press Association  
and the International Hockey Federation and key Publisher  
wins included the Daily Mail, the Evening Standard,  
The Independent, Muzu TV, AOL and Daily Motion. These 
client wins helped broaden our scale across all of the vertical 
content streams. We seized the opportunity to further 
increase our scale through the acquisition of Preview 
Networks which brought pan-European reach and the assets 
of Sportsyndicator which expanded our network of sports 
Publishers. Throughout 2013, we cultivated new ways to 
further automate our platform, improving features and 
usability for our clients as well as scoping, designing and 
specifying the architecture for our second generation 
platform. Our flotation on AIM in November 2013 enabled  
us to raise Rightster’s profile, fully finance the business and 
solidify our position to further capitalise on the substantial 
market opportunity.
In our third phase of growth, post-IPO, we are focused on 
becoming the dominant player in this rapidly evolving 
market. We’re excited about the forthcoming release of our 
second generation platform which will bring a step-change 
in self-service functionality, benefiting all of our clients. 
Further efficiencies to Rightster’s operations will also  
result and we expect it to enable us to deliver new revenue 
streams. We are also keen to utilise our data capabilities to 
further enhance the audience insight service that we can 
offer to our clients during this phase. In order to further 
accelerate our growth, we will continue to consider strategic 
acquisition opportunities if they could add customers to our 
network, provide additional expertise and monetisation 
potential or expand our geographic footprint.
 
The market opportunity in this sector is huge and growing 
quickly, and Rightster is well configured to take advantage. 
The Board of Directors considers that the leading players in 
this sector are likely to reach hundreds of millions of pounds 
sterling revenue, with the dominant player likely to reach 
billions. We have a strong track record to date, as evidenced 
by our ability to recruit and retain premium clients, and 
consistently grow our scale year-on-year. The continuous 
improvement of the software platform, combined with 
expansion of the breadth and depth of the pre-connected 
network and release of new value-added advanced services 
provide significant upside potential.
 
The outlook for 2014 is promising. I’m delighted that 
Rightster continues to demonstrate acceleration in its  
video traffic with average monthly video views for Q1 2014 
estimated at 355 million per month, a 28% increase on Q4 
2013 and a 147% increase on Q1 2013. We have also proven 
our ability to successfully integrate – I’m thrilled to report 
that, in March 2014, Rightster’s network ranked No.1 in 
Comscore’s UK sports advertising category for unique  
users, reaching 8.3 million unique users in the UK, a direct 
result of the success of our integration of the assets of 
Sportsyndicator. Exciting client wins continue to grow 
Rightster’s scale with Agence France-Presse (AFP), one of 
the world’s leading global news agencies and the India Today 
Group, a significant win in the growing Indian market, being 
recently added to the Rightster network. I’m confident that 
we will continue to build and expand upon our recent 
successes over the coming year, maintain the exceptional 
value that we deliver to our clients and maximise potential 
returns to our shareholders. 
Charles Muirhead 
Chief Executive Officer
16 April 2014
Strategic  
Report
Governance
Financial 
Statements
