 10 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Chief executive’s statement
Strong momentum and value adding growth
Tom Albanese
From a position of increased strength and with 
growth firmly on our agenda, we are making 
significant progress towards our vision of global 
sector leadership.
2010 saw Rio Tinto move steadily towards its vision of global sector 
leadership, recording exceptional performance and creating a 
clear pathway for sustainable growth. 
We are now financially stronger and have greater optionality, 
thanks to significant progress with our divestment programme, 
efficiencies derived from our business transformation initiatives 
and record annual production in our iron ore business. 
Improved pricing and market conditions also enhanced our flexibility 
and enabled us to approve US$11 billion in major capital projects 
during 2010. Growth is firmly on our agenda.
These achievements are a credit to the 77,000 employees who 
work for Rio Tinto across the world and I would like to thank  
them for their ongoing commitment.
In 2010, we increased our focus on operational efficiency and 
risk management, with a particular emphasis on compliance and 
continuous improvement. Running operations which are safe, 
reliable and injury and illness free is our number one priority.  
We are proud to have improved our safety record, with an  
18 per cent decrease in the all injury frequency rate. However, 
I must record with sorrow the deaths of three people in our 
managed facilities. 
We have increased our focus on process and contractor safety, 
remaining absolutely committed to safety in the workplace. We 
are determined to achieve zero harm in all of our operations.
Strategy
Our strategy has remained absolutely consistent – to invest in  
and operate large, long term, cost competitive mines and assets, 
driven not by the choice of commodity but rather by the quality  
of each opportunity.
To achieve this, we focus on a portfolio of Tier 1 assets diversified by 
commodity, market and geography. This approach has underpinned 
our ability to overcome the challenges of previous years. I am greatly 
encouraged by the Group’s performance, which is a testament to our 
focus on creating shareholder value in the long term. 
2010 objectives
As a result of the investments announced during the year, we have 
significantly enhanced our global presence in key operational areas. 
In 2010, to support the execution of our strategy, we focused 
the business on five short term priorities: operational delivery; 
prudent balance sheet management; pursuing our growth path; 
completing the proposed Western Australian iron ore production 
joint venture; and strengthening our relationship with China. 
I am pleased to say we made significant progress in almost all  
of these areas. 
Our focus on operational delivery helped us break production records. 
We took steps to optimise our financial position and, as a result, our 
balance sheet is stronger. We grew organically, reflecting confidence 
in our business and the outlook for our markets. 
The cessation of our plans to form a Western Australian iron ore 
production joint venture with BHP Billiton was a disappointment, 
but we respect the regulators’ views. We remain focused on a more 
than 50 per cent expansion of our iron ore business in the Pilbara, 
leveraging our world class assets and organisational capability.
We began 2010 with a difficult period in China, but went on to  
make significant progress in developing stronger ties there. In  
March 2010, four employees based in Shanghai were convicted of  
receiving bribes and obtaining commercial secrets. This disappointing 
and unacceptable behaviour violated the Group’s strong ethical 
culture as well as Chinese law, hence their employment was terminated.  
The independent forensic investigation found that any illegal 
activities were conducted entirely outside the Group’s systems. 
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
1.09
0.81
0.66
0.95
1.21
All injury frequency rate
Per 200,000 hours worked
 Including former Alcan
0.66
(2009: 0.81) www.riotinto.com 11
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
We also looked towards the future. In July, we signed a joint venture 
agreement with Chalco for the development and operation of the 
Simandou iron ore project in Guinea and we continue to have 
discussions with the Government of Guinea. At the end of the 
year, we signed a memorandum of understanding with Chinalco to 
establish a landmark exploration joint venture in China, and also 
agreed to extend our Channar Mining joint venture in the Pilbara 
with our partner, Sinosteel Corporation. 
In a year of considerable progress across the Group, several 
projects stand out: our iron ore expansion plans in the Pilbara; 
our increased interest in the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project 
in Mongolia and the signing of an agreement to become the 
development and operating manager of Oyu Tolgoi; and progress 
towards modernising and expanding our Canadian aluminium 
portfolio. At the end of the year we announced a recommended 
offer for Riversdale Mining Limited, which, if successful, would 
provide us with a substantial Tier 1 coking coal development 
pipeline in Mozambique. This is an example of the small to 
medium sized acquisitions that we are currently focused on.
A strong framework for sustainable development 
Wherever we operate, whatever we do, sustainable development 
underpins our vision. Our sustainable development approach gives 
governments confidence that we will develop resources in a way  
that will benefit their economies and communities and will protect 
their environments.
The mining and natural resource sector occupies an increasingly 
strategic and exposed position in the thinking of governments 
and other stakeholders. While these factors can lead to tensions, 
with effective management, new opportunities will emerge. 
Through proactive leadership, and by building relationships  
with all our stakeholders, we can turn this area of challenge  
and complexity into a source of competitive advantage. 
We will continue to show leadership in areas such as employee  
health and safety; community engagement; and in global issues vital  
to the future of the world’s environment such as carbon, water use  
and biodiversity .
Well placed to meet rising demand
Prices for many of our products recovered during the year driven 
principally by demand growth in China and the OECD countries. 
Iron ore and copper prices were particularly strong. While 
government stimulus measures generally supported a gradual 
return to normalised global trade, the improvement in developed 
economies faded slightly during the latter part of 2010.
We believe the recovery momentum of the major economies will 
remain uncertain and volatile as the impact of the fiscal and 
monetary stimuli fades. Therefore, we remain cautious about the 
short term view of the economy. Globally, we expect GDP growth 
in 2011 to continue at broadly healthy levels of around 4.5 per 
cent. However, the pace of economic recovery will vary between 
the different markets we supply.
In the longer term, we believe the fundamentals are strong, but 
we will not be complacent. Much of the anticipated growth in 
demand for minerals will be driven by China and other emerging 
economies. Implementation of our established strategy will 
enable us to take advantage of increasing demand from these  
fast growing regions. 
Financial recovery
We will meet that demand from a strong financial position.  
In the past year we have transformed the Group’s balance sheet. 
Our robust operating performance, including record annual 
production in iron ore, led to record cash flows and underlying 
earnings in 2010. We completed a number of disposals, making 
asset sales totalling US$4.2 billion in 2010. This takes the total 
divestments completed since 2008 to more than US$11 billion 
and largely completes the disposal programme launched in 2007.
Achieving our vision 
With a focus on organic growth, we will also consider strategic 
merger and acquisition opportunities of moderate size that fit  
our overall direction and help us achieve our vision. 
As we move into 2011 we have established a longer term vision 
for global sector leadership, reflecting the long term nature of our 
business. Our strategy and business model are explained in detail 
on p18.
The people who make it all happen
We are fortunate in the Group that our geographic spread gives 
us access to the skills and talents of a highly diverse workforce. 
But there is much more we have to do and we have set ambitious 
plans to foster greater diversity.
It is our policy to offer our employees career opportunities that  
are rewarding and stimulating with real opportunities for personal 
and professional development. For example, training and recruitment 
programmes are under way in a number of countries in which 
we have embarked on major development opportunities. These 
include Madagascar, Mongolia and Guinea. 
We recognise that given our ambitious growth plans, our 
recruitment challenge will be substantial, particularly in some 
of our more competitive labour markets. We will not fulfil this 
requirement without a concerted effort to make Rio Tinto the 
employer of choice, something we are committed to achieving.
I want to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders, my 
leadership team and all of our employees across the world. It has 
been a year of exceptional performance and momentum, which 
was truly a team effort. I am looking forward to building  
on this success in 2011. 
In a world of increasing commodity demand and growing 
sustainable development challenges I believe Rio Tinto will 
set itself apart through its leadership in operational delivery, 
exploration, technology and innovation and sustainable 
development to become the preferred industry partner  
and developer.
Tom Albanese, chief executive
