 Chief executive’s statement
Dear shareholders,
Your company had a strong year, making truly satisfying progress towards
building a safer, more resilient, world-class business. Our relentless focus
on improving performance at all of our operations, driving down costs and
strengthening our balance sheet has enabled us to deliver materially
increased cash returns to shareholders. We remain committed to pursuing
further improvement in the year ahead.
In 2014 we delivered excellent results and upheld our commitment to improve
performance and strengthen the balance sheet. In challenging conditions we
delivered on, and in many cases exceeded, expectations.
It is clear that in the short term we will continue to face challenging
commodity markets as economic and geopolitical uncertainty continues.
Divergent monetary policy paths in Europe, the US and parts of Asia are
contributing to financial volatility. China is now experiencing slower, but still
significant, economic growth as it rebalances its economic priorities from
investment towards consumption.
But we also know that against a backdrop of uncertainty, Rio Tinto thrives.
Our combination of world-class assets, disciplined capital allocation, balance
sheet strength, operating and commercial excellence, and our culture of
safety and integrity gives me confidence we are best placed to make the most
of the positive long-term demand fundamentals to generate sustainable
returns.
Our strong 2014 results are first and foremost due to the efforts of our
hardworking and dedicated employees around the world. I had the great
pleasure of visiting many of our operations during the year, and yet again I was
inspired by the commitment of our people, and impressed by their expertise.
I thank them all for their contributions.
I would like to thank the Executive Committee – including Alfredo Barrios and
Greg Lilleyman who we welcomed to the team this year – for their strong and
passionate leadership.
Putting safety first
We strive to put safety first in everything we do. From small things such as
starting our meetings with what we call a “safety share”, to supporting
community mental health initiatives and understanding our critical risks,
safety is deeply embedded in our culture.
We reduced our all injury frequency rate by nine per cent in 2014 compared
with 2013. This was our best year ever in terms of injury rate performance, and
over the past five years we have reduced our all injury frequency rate by
14.5 per cent.
However success really means everyone returning home safely, every day.
Therefore it is with much sadness I report the deaths of two employees at
managed operations during 2014. In February, at the Gove alumina refinery in
Australia, our colleague Darryl Manderson died due to an equipment incident
while carrying out maintenance work. In November, Enrick Gagnon died when
a landslide derailed an iron ore train in Canada. I was also greatly saddened by
two further fatalities earlier in 2015, at QIT Madagascar Minerals and at
Zululand Anthracite Colliery in South Africa. Both of these 2015 fatalities are
currently being investigated.
These deaths have had a major impact on the family, friends and workmates of
these colleagues. We will learn from these tragedies to prevent future ones.
Although our safety performance leads our industry, we need to be constantly
vigilant and focused on improvement. We refreshed our safety strategy in
2014 and our goal, above all, remains to eliminate fatalities.
Managing a world-class portfolio
Over decades and across our product suite we have built a strong portfolio
of businesses. Across the Group in 2014, we saw numerous examples of the
strength of our portfolio. Among the highlights of our operational performance
were the production records we set for iron ore and Hunter Valley thermal coal.
Our Pilbara iron ore business reached its 290 Mt/a run rate two months ahead
of schedule. Expanding our Pilbara operations to 360 Mt/a rests comfortably
with our view of the longer-term demand for iron ore. These operations are
world class in terms of assets, optionality, and low-cost operating
performance, as well as in our marketing expertise and leading-edge
application of technology.
The expansion translated into excellent product group earnings and cash flow
for Iron Ore. Despite significant price declines for its products, Iron Ore’s
underlying earnings reached US$8.1 billion. This was a reduction of only
18 per cent on 2013, thanks to continued cost reduction efforts and the
favourable effect of the weaker Australian dollar.
The turnaround of our Aluminium business continued in 2014. Higher prices for
aluminium and our focus on efficiency and productivity saw the product group’s
underlying earnings more than double, from US$557 million in 2013 to
US$1.2 billion in 2014. Our bauxite business is generating handsome margins,
but more work is needed in the alumina side of the portfolio. So we have set
some tough targets for 2015, and we expect alumina’s profile to steadily
improve.
The Copper group delivered an 11 per cent increase in underlying earnings.
This was despite a seven per cent reduction in average copper prices, and
reflects the group’s success in reducing costs and boosting productivity.
Copper also increased production volumes and made more good progress in
simplifying the portfolio.
The Diamonds & Minerals group continued to focus on maximising cash flow
matching capacity to the market – the right approach for these specialist
products. The product group achieved underlying earnings of US$401 million,
a 15 per cent increase on 2013, as higher volumes and lower costs more than
offset lower prices in the minerals portfolio.
Lower prices across the coal sector decreased our Energy group’s earnings by
US$434 million. Not all of this could be offset by the good progress the Energy
team continued to make in reducing operating costs and maximising efficiencies.
Ultimately this resulted in a loss of US$210 million of underlying earnings.
All of our product groups have high-quality growth options, which we continue
to pursue in a disciplined manner. We believe we have the right capital
allocation framework and the right level of spending to support value-accretive
growth while ensuring we retain a strong balance sheet and meet our
commitment to deliver sustainable returns.
As part of our continued focus on efficiency and costs, we announced on
27 February 2015 that we would be streamlining our product group structure,
with immediate effect. Under the new arrangements, Rio Tinto’s world-class
portfolio of assets has been condensed into four product groups: Aluminium,
Copper & Coal, Diamonds & Minerals and Iron Ore.
I would like to recognise the significant contributions of Jacynthe Côté and
Harry Kenyon-Slaney who left or will leave the company during 2014 and early
2015 respectively. I thank them both and wish them both well.
riotinto.com 5
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Chief executive’s statement continued
Focus and agility
In many respects, our industry-leading businesses are where others wish to
be; however, now is not the time for complacency.
We must anticipate, adapt and respond with urgency to changing conditions,
sustaining our focus on efficiency in areas that make a difference – rein in our
costs, ensure every dollar is spent wisely and remove wasteful working capital.
Rio Tinto’s balance sheet is strong and sound and we are committed to
maintaining this position. In a period of market instability, a robust balance sheet is
a major advantage. It protects the business, it protects shareholders and it creates
a platform for future growth. It provides flexibility to undertake future projects – as
and when required – and to find the best ways to reward shareholders.
On page 10, you can read more about the areas we will be focusing on in 2015
as we strive to enhance our performance even further.
Delivering sustainable value
In 2014, your company fulfilled its commitment to deliver greater value for
shareholders. In doing so, we have also created value for many of our
partners around the world who are so integral to the continuing success
of our business.
I believe the quality and commitment of our people sets us apart, as does
the way they embrace and embody our values: respect, integrity, teamwork
and accountability.
I would like to thank our employees for their dedication and hard work, our
stakeholders for continuing to partner with us, and you, our shareholders for
investing in our company.
Sam Walsh AO
Chief executive
4 March 2015
6 riotinto.com
