 8 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Jan du Plessis
Our commitment to operational excellence 
has seen us capitalise on improved conditions 
in the external environment.
Chairman’s statement
A year of record results
Rio Tinto had an outstanding 2010. After responding to the challenges 
of the global financial crisis, and taking steps to stabilise and 
strengthen our organisation, we are now concentrating on, and 
delivering, operational excellence. This focus has allowed us to 
benefit from opportunities that have arisen in the more favourable 
external environment, and to deliver record results in 2010. 
The exemplary performance of Rio Tinto’s people was fundamental 
to our success in 2010. Their efforts enabled us in many cases 
to work our assets throughout the year at, or above, nameplate 
capacity, while also improving our safety performance. In 2010, 
we set a new Group record in the annual production of iron ore. 
We achieved record underlying EBITDA of US$26.0 billion, and 
record underlying earnings of US$14.0 billion, up 82 per cent  
and 122 per cent on 2009, respectively. Net earnings were 
US$14.3 billion compared with US$4.9 billion in 2009.
We remain committed to efficient capital management. It is our 
belief that the long term creation of shareholder value requires a 
balanced approach to investing in growth and returning excess 
capital to shareholders, while maintaining a strong balance sheet. 
Our confidence both in our own portfolio and in future demand 
for our products has allowed us to increase our annual dividend by 
20 per cent compared with our previous commitment. We are also 
proceeding with a US$5 billion share buy-back, which we intend  
to complete by the end of 2012, subject to market conditions.
Improved global economy
The world’s major developed economies gradually stabilised 
during 2010, in response to government fiscal and monetary 
stimulus packages. Most were experiencing renewed GDP growth 
by the third quarter of 2009. China saw a sharp rebound in GDP 
growth, up from an annualised rate of nearly six per cent in 2009 
to over ten per cent in 2010. 
This economic stimulus has helped trade to recover from the 
low point of the global crisis, and thanks to our stronger balance 
sheet, we have been well positioned to benefit from this recovery. 
We have sharpened our focus on our programme of organic 
growth and, for 2011, we envisage continuing this focus, with 
capital expenditure set to increase to US$13 billion.
We believe we are well prepared for the key challenges facing the 
mining industry as we grow to meet rising demand. We will need 
to overcome skills shortages as we compete for new talent not 
only with other mining companies, but also with other expanding 
sectors, such as oil and gas. This trend will become more apparent 
as we move into new, riskier geographies. There will be new 
technical challenges as we develop more remote and complex 
orebodies, and increased competition from new players in our 
sector. Although we anticipate continued volatility in our markets, 
we will need to look beyond the peaks and troughs of a cycle and 
be prepared to expand through volatile times.
Dividends
108.00
(2009: 45.00)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
85.07
111.23 111.22
45.00
108.00
US cents www.riotinto.com 9
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Sustainable development
As the world becomes more reliant on the metals and minerals 
we produce, we are increasingly challenged to grow and to find 
new, more efficient ways of providing our markets with the raw 
materials they demand. And as we grow, we are able to share more 
of the sustainable benefits of our activities with those around us.
Rio Tinto’s commitment to sustainable development permeates 
our entire business. It is integral to our daily operations, to our 
legacy, and to our future. By maintaining our reputation as a 
responsible employer, neighbour, partner and citizen, we are 
constantly renewing our licence to operate. This approach gives  
us continuing access to the people, capital and resources we need.
We are recognised as a leader in sustainable development, as 
evidenced by our continued listing on the FTSE4Good, the 
Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes and the Carbon Disclosure 
Leadership Index. Our reputation helps us forge robust alliances 
with other organisations that lead the way in sustainable 
development, such as the three year partnership we formed with 
the International Union for Conservation of Nature in 2010. By 
sharing knowledge and best practice with our partners, we seek to 
continue to deliver sustainable benefits to the people and places 
where we work. 
Governance and risk
To achieve our vision of global sector leadership, we must 
continue to maintain the highest standards of corporate 
governance. These standards are underpinned by ethical guidance 
in the form of our global code of conduct, The way we work; the 
application of best practice; and continually striving for excellence 
to create value for our shareholders. Based upon our agreed 
strategic framework, Rio Tinto’s board supports and oversees 
the Group’s management in its delivery of sustained operational 
excellence as well as growth opportunities, whether organic or 
through prudent corporate activity.
The board recognises that risk is an integral and unavoidable 
part of doing business and that while risk carries threats, it also 
offers opportunities. Our processes for handling risk effectively 
are embedded throughout our organisation and are essential for 
maintaining our competitive advantage. There is a more detailed 
discussion of risk management on page 24. 
Board succession planning is an essential component of effective 
corporate governance and the continued success of our business. In 
2010, we strengthened our board through the appointment of two new 
non executive directors, Ann Godbehere and Robert Brown. 
We also saw two retirements from the board.  Sir David Clementi, 
who was chairman of the Audit committee, stepped down in May 
2010, as did David Mayhew.  In accordance with a provision of the 
new UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Directors will stand for 
re-election by shareholders annually with effect from the 2011 annual 
general meetings.  As previously indicated, Yves Fortier, formerly 
chairman of the board of Alcan Inc and also Sir Rod Eddington, will not 
be standing for re-election by shareholders in 2011. Yves and Rod have 
each made significant contributions to the board during their tenure 
with Rio Tinto and I would like to express my personal appreciation 
of the tremendous support they have given to me over the years.  
Meanwhile, Andrew Gould, Senior Independent Director and chairman 
of the Remuneration committee, has announced that he will be leaving 
the Board at the conclusion of the 2012 annual general meetings.
On behalf of the board, I continue to lead the succession and routine 
refreshment of directors to ensure the most appropriate balance of 
skills and experience, and to drive effective decision making.
Outlook
Urbanisation and industrialisation in populous parts of the world 
will continue to provide a strong platform for increasing demand 
for metals and minerals. Although long term fundamentals for 
growth are strong, there are downside risks in the short term, and 
potential for medium term volatility due to persistent economic 
imbalances. Financial systems remain fragile, particularly in 
OECD countries. The increase in sovereign debts, and government 
measures to address fiscal imbalances, are likely to temper short 
term growth. 
We constantly seek to assess the potential impact of these factors 
on the Group’s plans, and to enhance our capabilities to predict 
demand and understand our markets.
Our people’s commitment
It is inspiring to see the way our global team of people 
works together and strives for ways to improve our collective 
performance. Throughout the year, their commitment, talent  
and integrity have led to the delivery of remarkable results. 
On behalf of the board, I would like to thank all of our people for 
their hard work during the past year. Our thanks also go to our 
shareholders, whose continued support of Rio Tinto has helped  
us achieve record levels of performance in 2010.
Jan du Plessis, chairman
