 RM plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 13
RM has achieved a lot since Tim Pearson took over as our 
CEO in 2002. In terms of financial results, revenue has
increased and profit before tax (before goodwill and
exceptional charges) has more than doubled. Perhaps more
importantly for the long-term health of our business, we have
achieved year-on-year increases in customer satisfaction and
reinvigorated our reputation for innovation.
What we have achieved – in establishing a track record of
effective delivery, in increasing customer satisfaction, and in
creating unique, educationally valuable intellectual property
– means that the Group is very well positioned to respond to
the opportunities presented by the educational ICT market.
This is a testament to all Tim Pearson has done as CEO and to
the dedication and professionalism of the very strong
management team he leads.
OPPORTUNITY
Early in its history, RM made the strategic decision to focus its
activities at the point where education and technology meet; in
particular, on providing products and services that help teachers
to teach and learners to learn. W e believe that the UK education
market now offers more opportunities for growth – and for
helping customers achieve their goals – than it has for many years.
Most obviously, the Building Schools for the Future (BSF)
programme is an excellent match for RM’ s competitive strengths.
This 15-year, £45-billion programme will rebuild, or substantially
refurbish, every English secondary school; with £5 billion of this
spend allocated to information and communications technology
(ICT), the programme will have far-reaching effects on the role
which technology plays in education. 
Several of the education projects which RM is already delivering are
widely seen as examples of best practice in education technology; 
as such, they are helping to shape the ICT requirements of the 
BSF programme.
In the area of assessment and testing, we are taking a lead in
applying 21st-century technology to an activity which has barely
changed since the 19th century. The online test delivery and
management environment which we are developing with the
Qualifications and Curriculum Authority has been identified 
as one of the most innovative new approaches to assessment in
the world, while our work with Cambridge Assessment (formerly
UCLES) will fundamentally improve the way in which the exam
board administers high-stakes examinations. 
RM is also playing a pioneering role in the area of  ‘enterprise
systems’ for education. The Scottish Schools Digital Network
(SSDN) project, which we won during the year, demonstrates the
rich set of resources that educationalists can expect in the future.
SSDN is an ambitious national education intranet, providing online
services for all 800,000 learners and teachers across all of Scotland;
in time it will extend to parents as well. Delivering this project will
place Scotland at the forefront of educational technology and
provide RM with unrivalled knowledge and experience.
RESULTS
2005 has been a very successful year for RM. Tim Pearson sets 
out the full details of the Group’ s results in his Operating Review.
In summary: profit before tax (before goodwill charges) increased
by 11% to £12.8 million; profit before tax (after goodwill charges)
was £5.5 million.
W e are proposing a further increase in dividend, which will bring
the full-year dividend per share to 4.85p (2004: 4.6p). 
PEOPLE
Our staff believe that RM is a good place to work – they told us
so in this year’ s annual staff survey. They also say that they are
proud to work here. On behalf of the Board and the management
team I extend my thanks to all of them. RM’ s strength, and our
customers’ success, is dependent on the loyal, committed and
creative people who choose to work here. 
THE FUTURE
The educational ICT landscape continues to evolve. New and
powerful ways of using technology to help teachers and learners
are emerging and, at RM, we believe that the role of ICT in
improving educational standards will grow rapidly.
This developing market presents enormous opportunities – and
challenges – for RM. The biggest challenge is to ensure that the
products and services which we offer help our customers succeed
– on their own terms. If we do this, our business will continue to
prosper, to the benefit of all of our stakeholders.
JOHN LEIGHFIELD 
Chairman 
18 November 2005
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
John Leighfield – Chairman
BUSINESS REVIEW AND FINANCIAL SECTION
