 Chairman’s letter
Dear shareholders,
During 2014, your company maintained its steadfast commitment to generate
sustainable shareholder returns by supplying the commodities essential for
modern life. As this report shows, we delivered strong financial and operational
performance against a challenging market backdrop. Our success is
underpinned by our strong safety performance, operational excellence,
values-driven approach and the best people in the industry.
I am very pleased to report we delivered on our commitments during 2014. We
achieved underlying earnings of US$9.3 billion and our focus on cash
generation led to net cash from operating activities of US$14.3 billion. We
exceeded our cost reduction target and lowered net debt significantly while
reducing capital expenditure to US$8.2 billion.
Most importantly we fulfilled our promise to you, the owners of our company,
to materially increase cash returns. Our primary commitment in terms of
shareholder returns is our progressive dividend policy. In February 2015 we
announced a 12 per cent increase in our full year dividend as well as a
US$2.0 billion share buy-back. These represent a total cash return to
shareholders, in respect of 2014, of almost US$6.0 billion. They underscore the
confidence your board has in the resilience and strength of the company
despite ongoing uncertainties in our external markets. We believe that
delivering returns to shareholders is an important component of our overall
approach to creating shareholder value.
Value through the economic cycle
This improved performance reflects the strategic approach the company has
embedded throughout our more than 140 year history: to invest in and
operate long-life, low-cost, expandable operations in the most attractive
industry sectors. We focus on the best assets, because they are capable of
delivering value throughout the cycle.
Volatility has become a characteristic of the rapidly-evolving world in which we
operate. Each year presents a new economic challenge. The past six months
in particular have seen increased uncertainty in energy, metals and foreign
exchange markets. The prices for many of the commodities we produce were
significantly lower during 2014, with average iron ore prices down 30 per cent
year-on-year.
However, given the decisive action we have taken over the past two years, your
company is in a strong position to capitalise on the positive long-term
fundamentals for our key commodities, despite the short-term market challenges.
Rio Tinto’s position as a pre-eminent supplier of raw materials and refined
metals and minerals products places us in an enviable position. At a time of
significant distress for late-entrant or high-cost producers, Rio Tinto has been
able to go about its business in a disciplined and orderly way. This is due to
our world-class assets, the quality of our products and customer relationships,
and the decisive actions we have taken to strengthen our balance sheet.
We continue to focus on maximising returns from our existing assets while
ensuring only the best growth projects attract fresh capital.
We also continue to optimise our portfolio, and in 2014 divested the Clermont
Joint Venture and Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique coal businesses, the Søral and
Alucam aluminium businesses, and the Copper group’s Sulawesi and Pebble
projects.
As we disclosed in October 2014, Glencore contacted Rio Tinto regarding a
potential merger in July 2014. The Rio Tinto board, after consultation with its
financial and legal advisers, concluded unanimously that a combination was
not in the best interests of Rio Tinto shareholders.
A responsible and transparent business
The methods the company employs to deliver superior results are as
important as the results themselves. We remain deeply committed to being a
responsible company providing products the world over to support economic
improvement and social progress.
We operate in a complex and interconnected world where global and local
issues – such as biodiversity, climate change, livelihoods, and regional
economic development – bring both risk and opportunity to the design,
development and management of our operations.
Society’s expectations are increasing, and we will continue to listen carefully to
our stakeholders, as we strive to create mutual value.
Our operations can have a substantial positive economic impact on the
regions and countries in which we operate. Over the past four years, our
economic contribution has exceeded US$230 billion.
We lead our industry with our ongoing commitment to tax transparency,
publishing our annual Taxes Paid report to hold ourselves and host governments
to account. We hope others will be encouraged to follow our example.
It is through this combination of facilitating social development, acting as a
catalyst for growth, and behaving in an environmentally responsible way, that
we manage our risks and deliver value for you, our shareholders, and also
create projects of worth for the communities in which we work.
Governance – a balance of diversity and depth
The past year has again seen a broadening of experience and diversity on your
board as we welcomed a number of new non-executive directors.
Michael L’Estrange joined the board in September 2014 and Megan Clark in
November. They bring to Rio Tinto a mix of backgrounds deeply relevant to
our strategy and culture, including mining, science and technology, public
policy and international relations. At our Australian annual general meeting in
early May, Lord Kerr and Michael Fitzpatrick will step down after many years of
wonderful service. I thank them both for their dedication and immense
contribution to Rio Tinto.
I am delighted that Sam Walsh and Chris Lynch agreed to extend their tenure
with open-ended contracts. They have provided transformative leadership
since 2013, and I am confident that their experience will continue to drive the
delivery of sustainable results.
A key role of the board is to ensure it has the appropriate succession
arrangements for its senior leadership team and that it has the next
generation of leaders moving through the company.
Rio Tinto has always prided itself on the breadth and depth of the talent within
our organisation, and the capabilities of our people – across more than
40 countries – are highly regarded. I would like to thank Sam, the Executive
Committee, and all of our 60,000 employees across the world for their
commitment, leadership and resilience.
Looking forward with confidence
Markets are challenging, and in this environment investors seek strength,
reliability and consistency. It is in these periods that your company thrives and
the quality of its assets, operational excellence and balance sheet strength
shines through.
Let me assure you that your board, our management, and all our people,
are committed to delivering sustainable returns to you, our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued investment in Rio Tinto. I look forward to
reviewing progress in 2015 with you next year.
Jan du Plessis
Chairman
4 March 2015
4 riotinto.com
