 Overview
6 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report
During what was clearly a historic and 
tumultuous year for the global community, 
Rio Tinto found 2009 to be particularly 
testing. It certainly felt at times as if we 
were experiencing an amplifi ed version of 
the global fi nancial crisis and its knock-on 
effect on business confi dence, demand for 
commodities and availability of credit.
However, despite the early trauma, for 
Rio Tinto it turned out to be a year of two 
halves. After the particularly diffi cult fi rst 
few months, characterised by our balance 
sheet challenges, very weak demand, 
low product pricing and the contentious 
Chinalco transaction, our fortunes improved 
considerably as the year progressed. As a 
result of shareholder support for our rights 
issues, together with the success of our 
disposal programme and improved operating 
conditions, we ended the year with a much 
Underlying earnings
(US$m)
09 08 07 06 05
4,955
7,338
7,443
10,303
6,298
Chairman’s statement
A year of two halves
stronger balance sheet. In short, thanks to a 
number of signifi cant decisions on our part 
and assisted by a more favourable external 
environment, we have recovered our poise 
and steadied the ship.
Chinalco
Looking at the year as a whole, our attempt 
to establish a strategic partnership with the 
largest Chinese resources group and our 
largest shareholder, Chinalco, was undeniably 
a very signifi cant event for Rio Tinto. The 
proposed transaction would have allowed us 
to establish a highly important strategic link 
with the Chinese market, whilst at the same 
time enabling us to signifi cantly recapitalise 
our balance sheet. Especially in the context 
of the situation prevailing at that time, the 
board considered the Chinalco proposition 
both strategically and fi nancially attractive.
The transaction was nevertheless highly 
controversial. On becoming chairman in April 
it was evident to me that I needed to look for 
guidance from our shareholders. During the 
ensuing consultation process, I met with a 
large number of shareholder groups in the UK, 
Australia and elsewhere. It became clear to 
me that many shareholders had considerable 
misgivings about the proposed transaction. 
These concerns related not only to the fi nancial 
terms of the transaction, but there were high 
levels of discomfort about the structure of our 
relationship with Chinalco. The board could 
not ignore the strength and depth of these 
feelings although, in deciding not to proceed 
with that transaction, we deeply regretted 
the loss of a unique opportunity to establish 
a strategic partnership that would have 
fundamentally changed our relationship 
with our largest customer base. We will 
continue to work towards extending our 
relationship with Chinalco and to pursue 
business opportunities that may be to our 
mutual benefi t.
Improving prospects
In deciding that we were not able to pursue 
the transaction with Chinalco, the board 
was nevertheless delighted that it was able 
to announce the proposed production joint 
venture with BHP Billiton in relation to 
our respective iron ore assets in Western 
Australia. The joint venture will allow 
us to capture the enormous long term 
synergy benefi ts that would result from 
the integration of our production facilities. 
The value that could be captured has been 
estimated to be at least US$10 billion. 
We simultaneously announced major rights 
issues which took place in the UK and 
Australia in June and July . These raised net 
proceeds of US$14.8 billion which were used 
to repay debt, well ahead of our original 
US$10 billion target. The rights issues 
attracted an extraordinary vote of confi dence 
in Rio Tinto, with 97 per cent of shareholders 
taking up their rights in Rio Tinto plc, and 
a 95 per cent take up in Rio Tinto Limited. 
All of Rio Tinto’s directors, as well as Chinalco, 
took up their full entitlement of shares.
These decisions brought relief from some 
of the pressures of the earlier months of the 
year. It put the period of unusual corporate 
activity behind us and fi nally gave us a fi rm 
foothold to advance into the second half 
of the year. As we saw markets improve in 
the subsequent months, I was particularly 
pleased to see the executive team focused on 
fi rst class operational delivery as a priority for 
the Group. We ended the year with a strong 
set of production fi gures and the achievement 
Jan du Plessis
Thanks to a number of signifi cant decisions on our part 
and assisted by a more favourable external environment, 
we have recovered our poise and steadied the ship.  w w w .riotint o.c om 7
Overview Performance
Production
and reserves Governance
Financial 
statements
Shareholder
information
of a number of production and sales records. 
This of course also signalled a signifi cant 
pickup in physical demand for our products. 
Results and dividend
The strong production numbers, coupled 
with improved commodity prices, translated 
into a signifi cant improvement in operating 
cash fl ow in the second half. This, together 
with the proceeds of our rights issues and the 
disposal of assets, signifi cantly strengthened 
our balance sheet. Rio Tinto started 2009 
with net debt of US$38.7 billion and a debt to 
equity ratio of 63 per cent. We had made the 
commitment in December 2008 to reduce net 
debt by US$10 billion during 2009. Net debt 
at the end of 2009 stood at US$18.9 billion 
with gearing much reduced to 29 per cent. 
The Group’s underlying earnings in 2009 
were US$6.3 billion, 39 per cent below 
2008. Net earnings were US$4.9 billion 
compared with US$3.7 billion in 2008. 
Cash fl ow from operations decreased 
33 per cent to US$13.8 billion. 
With our balance sheet signifi cantly 
strengthened and our prospects much 
improved, we are pleased to be able to 
reinstate the dividend. Total dividends 
declared for 2009 were 45 US cents per 
share. The Group expects that the total 
cash dividend for the 2010 fi nancial year 
will be at least equal to the total cash 
dividend of US$1.75 billion paid in respect 
of 2008, albeit spread over an increased 
number of shares. From 2010 on, we are 
committed to a progressive dividend policy 
over the longer term.
Sustainable development
Rio Tinto conducts business in an ethical 
and socially responsible manner aimed at 
building a positive reputation and ensuring 
ongoing access to people, capital and mineral 
resources. Delivering on our commitment 
means making sustainable development 
considerations an integral part of our business 
plans and decision making processes. 
Rio Tinto was again identifi ed as a 
sustainable development leader during 
the year by retaining its listing on the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World 
Index and DJSI STOXX Index as well as the 
FTSE4Good. We have been included in the 
DJSI series since 2002 and the FTSE4Good 
since becoming eligible for inclusion in 2007. 
Rio Tinto’s long standing commitment to 
sustainable development and the quality of 
our sustainable development web pages have 
been recognised in the CSR Online Awards 
 “Global Leaders 2009” , published by Dow 
Jones Newswires and an Italian business daily. 
Our recently completed mineral sands mine 
in Madagascar won South Africa’s prestigious 
2009 Nedbank Environmental Award in the 
environmental category, for signifi cant effort 
in protecting or improving the biophysical 
environment in which it operates.
Rio Tinto became a signatory to the UN Global 
Compact in 2000 and we were one of its early 
supporters. We also remain an active member 
of the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development and the International Council 
on Mining and Metals, whose members are 
committed to superior business practices in 
sustainable development. 
Governance and board
The board is committed to high standards 
of governance as the foundation of our 
ethical approach to business. In 2009, we 
strengthened our governance system by 
renewing our global code of conduct, The 
way we work, establishing a common Group 
wide code to replace business unit codes 
of conduct. The code serves to spread our 
values of accountability, respect, teamwork 
and integrity throughout the organisation 
by providing guidance on how employees 
should conduct themselves at work and 
when representing Rio Tinto. Our confi dential 
whistleblowing programme, Speak-OUT, 
is a key element of The way we work, 
available in the language of the employee’s 
choice to alert senior management to any 
serious issues or inappropriate behaviour 
that employees do not feel able to discuss 
with management on site.
Your boards enjoy a balanced representation 
of viewpoints and a wealth of business 
experience. Sir David Clementi and David 
Mayhew will retire as directors at the 
conclusion of the 2010 annual general 
meetings. The boards thank them for their 
valuable contributions over many years. 
We welcomed Ann Godbehere, who has 
25 years’ experience in the fi nancial 
services’ industry, to the board on 9 
February 2010. She will be chairman of the 
Audit committee. Robert Brown, who has 
considerable global business experience in 
the aerospace industry, will join the boards 
on 1 April 2010. Ann and Bob will be 
standing for election at the annual general 
meetings in April, along with Sam Walsh, 
chief executive, Rio Tinto Iron Ore and 
Australia, who joined the boards effective 
5 June 2009. 
Outlook 
The outlook for mining and metals is 
improving but remains volatile and uncertain 
in the short term. The latest leading 
indicators for developed economies imply 
that we may have returned to expansionary 
territory, although no one knows to what 
extent or for how long. The pick up in metals 
demand at mid year was primarily driven 
by government stimulus measures and a 
recovery in economic activity which caused 
producers to return to buying raw materials. 
The key driver for the mining industry 
continues to be demand from China. Record 
Chinese metals imports have served to offset 
weakness in other markets. However, we will 
also need to see OECD economies improve 
and a resumption in international trade fl ows 
to fully support a global economic recovery.
Similarly, there are concerns about the 
sustainability of Chinese demand in the 
short term. Longer term, China is likely to 
move towards more domestic, consumption 
led development. 
Our people
Our year of two halves demonstrated 
commendable perseverance as we moved 
from diffi culty to success. Facing up to 
setbacks and promoting recovery has 
shown Rio Tinto to be a high performing 
organisation. We have come through these 
testing times thanks in no small measure to 
the quality and commitment of our people. 
The downturn unfortunately necessitated a 
reduction of about 16,000 employees and 
contractors across the Group which took place 
mainly in the early months of the year. Since 
then we have stabilised the organisation 
and a renewed management structure has 
been introduced. These steps will provide 
the platform to mobilise and energise the 
workforce and give us the momentum to 
resume growth. 
The board and I would like to express our 
collective appreciation to Group employees 
and contractors around the world for their 
strong commitment and unfl agging efforts 
in 2009; for their focus on safety, operational 
excellence and delivery to customers, as well 
as for conducting our business in a socially 
responsible way. 
Jan du Plessis
Chairman
