 14 RM plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
RM has delivered a strong performance in 2005 – particularly 
so against a background of budget pressures in schools and
falling selling prices in the PC hardware market. Financial
results for the year show good progress compared with last
year and customer satisfaction levels continue to improve. 
Looking ahead, the educational landscape is evolving more
rapidly than it has for many years: new and innovative uses for
educational technology are emerging and RM, through our
education project activity, is leading the world in many of
these areas. The education market continues to provide
opportunities for further growth, which RM is uniquely well
positioned to address.
RESULTS
Profit before tax (before goodwill charges) increased by 11% 
to £12.8 million (2004: £11.6 million). This increase is after 
£1.8 million of business-development expenditure related to the
Building Schools for the Future (BSF) programme. Operating
profit margin (before goodwill charges) showed further progress,
increasing to 4.4% (2004: 4.0%). 
Group turnover was unchanged at £263 million; however, this
masks underlying growth in the Group’ s business: the ‘one-off ’
turnover which we reported last year (£15 million, arising largely
from hardware sales related to a specific education project) has
been replaced by a combination of long-term project turnover
and full-year contributions from the businesses which we
acquired during 2004.
Group order intake was 15% higher than in 2004 and
significantly exceeded shipments in the year.
Cash management during the year was excellent: at 
30 September 2005 net funds stood at £21.8 million (2004:
£25.8 million). This is after PFI project capital expenditure in the
year of £10.4 million, which is now complete.
After goodwill charges of £7.4 million, profit before tax 
was £5.5 million (2004: £7.1 million). The Board is proposing 
an increased final dividend per share of 3.8p (2004: 3.6p), making
the total dividend per share for the year 4.85p (2004: 4.6p).
Subject to approval at the AGM, the final dividend will be 
paid on 3 February 2006 to shareholders on the register on 
6 January 2006.
INDIVIDUAL SCHOOLS
Individual schools customers continued to contribute the
majority of RM’ s turnover during 2005. The average annual
amount spent by RM’ s primary and secondary school customers
increased during the year and more schools are choosing to use
our flagship Community Connect 3™ infrastructure product.
Although a strong year overall, the individual schools market is
not without challenges, with the last month of our 2005 financial
year (which is also the first month of the academic year) being
below our expectations. Head teachers in England are
experiencing budget pressures, linked to both the workforce
remodelling programme and the introduction of teaching and
learning responsibility payments for teachers. The education
software market was challenging, with evidence that some of the
dedicated funding provided by the Department for Education
and Skills is ‘leaking’ out of the market.
EDUCATION PROJECT DELIVERY
W e entered 2005 having won several major education projects.
These projects represent significant educational transformation
for our customers; each of them is providing a high-quality
service and all of them serve as reference sites for future bids.
Delivery highlights include:
• QCA: 47,000 pupils taking examinations online, compared
with 1,200 in 2004
• Cambridge Assessment: 225,000 exam scripts processed
electronically
• W arwickshire LEA: 1,500 teachers using T ablet PC-based
teacher toolkits
CEO’S OPERATING
REVIEW
Tim Pearson – Chief Executive Officer RM plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 15
• Newham LEA: 4,200 laptop computers available for pupils to
take home
• Lambeth LEA: Full managed service supporting over 6,000
users
• South Lanarkshire Council: 9,000 computers over 200 sites
• South Y orkshire eLearning Programme: 10,500 new ICT
qualifications achieved so far
• Dudley Grid for Learning: 8,000 computers updated in over
100 schools 
Education projects made an increased contribution to turnover
during the year. Also important is the reputation we are
developing for delivering successful outcomes for our customers,
which increasingly differentiates us from our competition.
During the year we won two further education projects (Scottish
Schools Digital Network and Lambeth PFI) worth, in total,
£54.5 million, as well as securing the renewal of our contract with
the South W est Grid for Learning, which is expected to be worth
£10 million per year for up to five years. 
SCOTTISH SCHOOLS DIGITAL NETWORK
In September 2005 we were awarded a £37.5 million contract to
deliver the Scottish Schools Digital Network National Intranet
(SSDN). This was a fiercely contested contract and we won it in
competition against some of the world’ s largest technology
companies. RM was successful because we were able to
demonstrate an unrivalled combination of technical delivery
capability and educational focus.
When the first stage of SSDN is complete, more than 800,000
learners, teachers and educational managers in Scotland will have
secure, personalised access to a single intranet. Over time this
intranet will be extended to embrace parents as well. 
The SSDN project will drive whole new ways of using
technology in education, which will both save time for teachers
and improve facilities for learners. Functions available will
include curriculum-planning and delivery for teachers, innovative
educational content for learners and sophisticated management
information systems for education managers; as well as
collaboration and communication tools (including email, video
conferencing and chat) for all users. 
A REPUTATION FOR INNOVATION
W e see technical capability as one of our key competitive
advantages and, during 2005, we have continued to build our
reputation for innovation.
The education projects which we are delivering require technical
innovation; they also play a key role in developing the Group’ s
intellectual property. Each of these education projects
individually has built the knowledge, skills and experience the
Group has access to, together they provide us with a rich and
deep understanding of designing and delivering technology that
makes a genuine contribution to educational outcomes.
Several of our products and services have been recognised for
their innovation during 2005. W e won four awards at BETT
2005 (the annual educational ICT trade show), two Education
Resources Awards at the annual Education Show, and awards at
the Nursery W orld show. These awards cover all aspects of our
product range including PC hardware, educational software and
general educational resources (produced by the recently acquired
TTS subsidiary). 
HARDWARE AND DISTRIBUTION
Our innovative, educationally differentiated PC, the RM ONE,
has been extremely well received by schools. Schools value the
RM ONE’ s educational features and robust, space-saving design,
demonstrating the benefit of customer-driven innovation – even
in commodity product areas. The RM ONE range has now been
extended with the RM Mobile ONE, which brings educational
benefits to the laptop computer. 
Shown with optional primary keyboard 16 RM plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
The commodity PC hardware market has continued to be
extremely competitive and this year has seen a significant decline
in average selling prices. This effect has been most evident in our
universities business; however, we believe we have retained our
market share here, despite reducing the level of sales and
marketing resource deployed.
TTS, the general education resources supplier which we acquired
during 2004, has made an excellent first-year contribution to the
Group. W orking in partnership with RM’ s hardware division, TTS
has begun to develop a highly innovative range of technology
products. The first of these – Bee-Bot – has been a sales success and
further products will be introduced at BETT 2006.
ONLINE ASSESSMENT
More than 50 million exam scripts circulate around the UK
examination system each year, typically in the form of physical
pieces of paper. There is a clear opportunity for ICT to improve
the effectiveness and efficiency of these processes and it’ s an area
in which we have made good progress.
Our project with the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority to
deliver an online Key Stage 3 (13- to 14-year-olds) examination for
the curriculum subject of ICT is progressing well. The examination
went through volume-testing this summer and will be used next year
by a high proportion of all English Key Stage 3 pupils. As well as
providing an innovative new way of testing ICT , this project has also
created a national ICT infrastructure for delivering, administering
and marking tests for other subjects as well.
W e are also working with Cambridge Assessment (formerly
UCLES) to streamline the process of managing traditional,
paper-based exams. DOMS, our Digital Online Marking
Software, improves the efficiency and increases the accuracy of
marking. Through a sophisticated workflow engine, completed
exam scripts are scanned at the earliest possible point, with the
distribution, marking and reporting then managed electronically.
These two projects both have wider relevance and we are
exploring a range of further business opportunities.
BUILDING SCHOOLS FOR THE FUTURE
BSF is a 15-year programme which is intended to rebuild or
substantially refurbish every secondary school in England.
Partnerships for Schools (P4S), the agency tasked with driving
the programme forward, has indicated that, over the life of the
programme, capital investment could reach £45 billion. 
T echnology will be a fundamental part of the ‘school of the
future’ – indeed, educational ICT is being seen as one of the key
drivers of educational transformation. With as much as £5 billion
of the investment being focused on educational technology, the
BSF programme is an unprecedented opportunity for RM.
The potential benefits go beyond an increase in market size. P4S
has provided strong guidance that BSF projects should procure
ICT in the form of multi-year, managed services. This would allow
us to build even deeper partnerships with our customers, as well as
providing greater long-term visibility of revenues. As with any
major market change, there are, of course, risks associated with the
BSF programme. In particular, the requirement to bid for projects
as part of a consortium means that decisions will not be made
entirely on the quality of an ICT proposition. 
The track record of education-project delivery, which we have
built up in recent years, is directly relevant to the kind of business
which is likely to be available under BSF . W e have made some early
progress, being appointed as preferred bidder for a £6.4 million
ICT contract with Solihull Local Education Authority. 
W e have chosen to increase our expenditure on business
development related to the BSF programme from the £1.8 million
that was spent in 2005 to approximately £4 million in 2006, with
the target of securing the position of leading ICT partner to the
programme. W e view this expenditure as a strategic investment
which will yield shareholder benefits over the next three to five
years as an increasing number of BSF contracts is awarded.
INTERNATIONAL
The UK leads the world in the deployment of interactive
whiteboards in classrooms and RM has responded to the growing
use of this kind of technology with the further development of 
the Easiteach product range. Easiteach – a suite of interactive
whole-class teaching software – is equally as useful in international
markets as it is in the UK and, during 2005, we have made progress
in establishing a customer base for the product range in the USA.
By working in partnership with four of the leading interactive
whiteboard suppliers in America, we have established a presence
for Easiteach in American schools. Our partners bundle
Easiteach Studio – the core of the product range – with the
whiteboards which they sell to the US education market. W e are
establishing a distribution channel to sell ‘add-on’ modules to
those schools which experience the bundled product.
CEO’S OPERATING REVIEW RM plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 17
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION
A key part of our strategy is to focus on continual improvement
of customer satisfaction levels. In 2006 every permanent staff
member in our principal operating subsidiary will have some
element of their remuneration linked to customer satisfaction. 
W e view our externally audited customer satisfaction score as our
most important non-financial measure. In 2005 this score
increased again, exceeding our target and reaching 7.21 on a scale
of 0 to 10 (2004: 7.0), with more than 58% of customers giving 
us a score of 8, 9 or 10.
The customer satisfaction target has been set higher again 
for 2006. If we achieve our 2006 target, we will have seen 
year-on-year increases each year since we first started measuring
customer satisfaction in 2003. Independent analysis (by the
American Customer Satisfaction Index) of US companies which
measure customer satisfaction suggests that very few companies
increase their score in two consecutive years. 
The quality of service which we deliver for our customers has
received external validation during 2005. Support Online, our
W eb support service, was identified by the Association of
Support Professionals as one of the W orld’ s T en Best W eb
Support Sites for the second consecutive year in 2005. Our
telephone support team was a finalist in the Helpdesk Institute’ s
Helpdesk Support T eam Excellence Awards.
W e are now extending our focus to include customer success as
well as customer satisfaction. By this we mean achieving a
position where our customers not only view us as an exemplary
supplier, but also consider that the products and services which
we supply are an essential tool to improve teaching and learning.
OUR PEOPLE
RM has a growing international presence and we now employ
185 people outside the United Kingdom. In North America and
Australia we have regional sales offices and our software
development facility in T rivandrum, India is making an
increasing contribution to product development.
Employee satisfaction, based on our internal staff survey, increased
during the year, with 80% of staff responding that they thought
RM was a good organisation to work for (similar companies: 58%).
This is a very positive result and I echo John Leighfield’ s comments
in his Chairman’ s Statement thanking my colleagues everywhere in
the Group for their effort, dedication and professionalism.
There are, as ever, areas for improvement, the most obvious this
year being staff training. For 2006 we have increased our focus on
staff development.
PROSPECTS
The recent education white paper, Higher Standards, Better
Schools for All, identifies a central role for ICT in education; this
follows on from the publication of the Department for
Education and Skills’ (DfES) eLearning Strategy earlier this year
and the appointment of the first ever Director of T echnology to
the DfES Board. 
RM remains a seasonal business, with more than half of our
revenues – and an even greater proportion of profits – occurring in
the second half of the year (reflecting the peak in schools’ demand,
in preparation for the start of the academic year in September).
While we have improved the visibility of our revenues, we still have
almost two-thirds of the year’ s business to win and deliver. 
As always at this time of our financial year, it is too early in the year
to make any meaningful comment on RM’ s performance in 2006.
However, with English head teachers facing budget pressures as a
result of the workforce remodelling programme and the
introduction of teaching and learning responsibility payments for
teachers, the weakness in the market that was evident at the start of
the new academic year has continued into the current financial year. 
As previously mentioned, we are choosing to increase our
investment in business-development expenditure to prepare for
the opportunities presented by BSF . W e believe that this is in the
long-term interests of shareholders; however, it will hold back
profit growth in 2006.
In the longer term, RM is very well positioned to deliver
innovative ICT products and services that will help teachers to
teach and learners to learn. 
TIM PEARSON
Chief Executive Officer
18 November 2005
