 Overview
8 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report
Chief executive’s message
Well positioned for growth
Over the course of 2009 management’s focus 
has been on strengthening the business after 
a period of prolonged corporate activity and 
a severe downturn. We are grateful for the 
support we received from shareholders in 
recapitalising the company and helping 
us regain our momentum. We were also 
helped by the capacity of our organisation 
to deliver strong operational performance 
in challenging economic circumstances. 
The successful injection of US$14.8 billion 
from our rights issues, the effi ciencies 
derived from our cash preservation 
measures, and signifi cant progress with 
our divestment programme which realised 
sales and binding offers of US$5.7 billion 
in the year, have given Rio Tinto greater 
fi nancial strength and fl exibility. 
I am proud of the way in which our 
employees have persevered in delivering 
the commitments we made during these 
demanding times. Unfortunately, these 
achievements have been overshadowed by 
four fatalities during the year at managed 
operations. Three of these took place in Africa 
and we have renewed our focus on embedding 
our safety systems in developing countries. 
I am pleased to say our key performance 
indicators for safety continued to improve 
during 2009 with a reduction in our all injury 
frequency rate of 16 per cent. 
Reaching agreement to form the Western 
Australian iron ore production joint venture 
with BHP Billiton was an important highlight 
of the year. We expect it will achieve 
substantial benefi ts for stakeholders by 
delivering synergies and unlocking the full 
potential of the valuable Western Australian 
iron ore assets in an era of increasing 
demand for this vital commodity.
Tom Albanese
During 2009 we made 
some good decisions to 
improve our fi nancial 
position. We have emerged 
from this testing year as a 
stronger and fi tter business.
During 2009 we took steps to improve our 
aluminium business which was signifi cantly 
affected by the economic downturn. Rio 
Tinto Alcan surpassed targeted integration 
synergies, adopted Rio Tinto HSE policies 
and standards, improved safety performance, 
implemented cost reductions, progressed 
with the permanent closure and divestment 
of high cost facilities and made temporary 
production curtailments. Taken together, 
these measures amount to a strong start to 
the transformation of that business. 
To prepare ourselves for the next stage of 
Rio Tinto’s growth and to develop the next 
generation of leaders, I made changes to the 
structure of my senior management team. This 
included the reinstatement of the Diamonds & 
Minerals product group. Our structure ensures 
a tight focus on our core objective and allows 
for a broad range of investment opportunities 
to be generated, regardless of our portfolio. 
Market conditions
A year ago, I said that we hoped to see some 
recovery in China’s gross domestic product 
(GDP) in the second half of 2009. The effect of 
the Chinese Government’s monetary stimulus 
package exceeded most commentators’ 
expectations – actual growth surpassed eight 
per cent – and we expect this strong growth 
to continue through 2010.
The improvements we have seen in most 
of our markets were primarily driven by 
this stronger Chinese GDP growth and its 
attendant effects on Chinese construction 
and infrastructure development. Whilst we 
remain cautious about the recovery in our 
markets, we believe that these trends are 
likely to continue for some time as China 
continues to urbanise and industrialise. 
By contrast, the continuing strong China 
story was offset by a stagnant demand 
picture in OECD countries where consumer 
spending remains relatively weak. Australia 
was an exception, with its economy bolstered 
by the strong demand for commodities. 
In the US, Japan and Europe, pervasive 
economic concerns mean that we will 
continue to be cautious, especially as we 
begin to see the effects of the winding down 
of stimulus programmes.
Financial recovery
The speed and severity of the downturn in 
late 2008 exposed our levels of debt and 
made it more diffi cult to achieve the asset 
disposals we had planned for the repayment 
of debt. During 2009 we made some good 
decisions in diffi cult circumstances to 
improve our fi nancial position and achieve 
a reduction in controllable cash costs of 
US$2.6 billion. We have emerged from this 
testing year as a stronger and fi tter business.
Regarding divestments, we chose to postpone 
a number of sales. We made good progress 
with completion of the sale of our potash 
assets in the fi rst half and the Brazilian 
iron ore operation in the second half. 
More importantly, in the second half we 
made signifi cant progress with announced 
divestments on most of the former Alcan’s 
Packaging businesses, and our US coal 
operations. By the end of 2009, we had 
announced sales transactions of more than 
US$10 billion over the past two years.
Strategic direction and markets
We completed a thorough review of our 
strategy with our board and executive 
committee, leading to the reaffi rmation 
of our longstanding core objective. This 
is to maximise our long term return to 
shareholders by investing in and operating 
large, long life, cost competitive mines and 
assets, driven not by choice of commodity 
but rather by the quality of each opportunity. 
This strategy will of course be recognisable 
to our long term shareholders. We will 
ensure that our structure and capabilities 
are tailored to meet the requirements of 
our customers and the marketplace.
Our diverse portfolio, high quality assets, 
people and expertise in technology and 
marketing give us the capability to supply 
a wide spectrum of customers and markets. 
This gives us exposure to worldwide markets 
at various stages of the development cycle. 
W e will continue to improve our understanding 
of market dynamics and how we fi t into 
the global picture, and apply this to our 
planning and investment proposals.  w w w .riotint o.c om 9
Overview Performance
Production
and reserves Governance
Financial 
statements
Shareholder
information
To deliver on our objective, the Group will 
continue to concentrate on developing Tier 1 
assets. These are assets that will safeguard our 
future cash fl ow and will operate profi tably 
at every stage of the commodity cycle. Key 
to our way of operating is a commitment to 
sustainable development. It is an essential 
part of the way we work and is at the heart 
of everything we do.
This commitment is key to maintaining our 
licence to operate. We have a comprehensive 
sustainable development programme which 
is discussed more fully on pages 24-33. 
Carbon, water use and biodiversity are 
becoming increasingly topical in this context. 
We have taken a pro-active approach in all 
three areas and are progressively building 
them into our planning, especially as we see 
these three issues becoming increasingly 
inter-linked. 
Priorities for growth
One of our key objectives for 2010 is to put 
the Group back on a growth path following 
the rights issues and strengthening of the 
balance sheet. We continued to invest 
in growth throughout 2009. Capital 
expenditure was US$5.4 billion of which 
US$3 billion was on major construction 
projects. In 2010, capital expenditure is 
expected to be US$5 to US$6 billion.
The strong demand for iron ore clearly 
provides the most obvious option for 
production growth. We are continuing work 
on staged growth projects in the Pilbara. We 
used the past 12 months to optimise our 
planned growth pathway, fi nding ways to ease 
input costs, capture savings from reduced lead 
times, and refi ning project design. We have 
commenced initiatives to expand capacity to 
280 million tonnes per year by 2013 and 330 
million tonnes per annum by 2015. 
In 2009, we completed an unprecedented 
and technologically sophisticated integration 
of our iron ore operations in Western 
Australia through our Mine of the Future
TM
 
programmes and the opening of our new 
Operations Centre in Perth. This will 
contribute to the US$10 billion synergy 
savings we expect to reap from the proposed 
production joint venture with BHP Billiton. 
The benefi ts from the production joint 
venture would be without equal in the 
mining industry, applied broadly across 
production and development activities, 
including combining adjacent mines into 
single operations, more effi cient use and 
allocation of infrastructure and ore blending 
opportunities to maximise product recovery. 
In Aluminium we completed the start up 
of the Sohar smelter in Oman, to which we 
contributed our benchmark AP36 smelting 
technology. This is a good example of how 
Rio Tinto Alcan’s technology leadership 
can position us as a partner of choice. 
The portfolio will enable us to leverage 
our technology advantage, extensive 
project management expertise and strong 
operating capabilities. 
Current projects involve investment in the 
Clermont thermal coal and Kestrel coking 
coal projects in Queensland, Australia, 
refl ecting strong energy markets. We have 
options to expand at both of our uranium 
operations. Construction of the Yarwun 
2 alumina refi nery continues, albeit at a 
slower rate than originally anticipated in 
response to market conditions. In Diamonds, 
the Diavik and Argyle underground projects 
also continued at a slower rate. Each of these 
projects was approved before the global 
fi nancial crisis, and we have continued to 
invest in them. We expect to see production 
begin at both Clermont and Diavik 
underground in 2010.
We increased our stake in the Oyu Tolgoi 
project through additional investment in 
Ivanhoe Mines. Rio Tinto has responsibility 
for developing and operating the mine. 
Following the signing of the Investment 
Agreement with the Government of Mongolia 
in October 2009, a project budget was agreed 
that covers the resumption in 2010 of shaft 
sinking, construction of a shaft headframe, 
continuation of underground development 
and installation of infrastructure. The size of 
the resource is consistent with our strategy of 
investing in large, long term, cost competitive 
mines and businesses. 
China
An objective for 2010, and one that I am 
particularly focused on, is to strengthen our 
relationship with China. China is our largest 
source of short term demand growth. In 2009, 
it became the most important destination for 
our products and infl uences global pricing of 
most metals. It is also the home of our largest 
shareholder, Chinalco. 
We were pleased to see Chinalco take up its 
full entitlement of shares in our rights issues 
and maintain its shareholding at 12 per cent 
of Rio Tinto plc and 9.3 per cent of the dual 
listed company overall. 
I would like to add a word on our four 
employees who were detained on 5 July 2009 
in Shanghai. We wish to see the completion of 
an expeditious and transparent legal process. 
Our continued priority is our duty of care to 
our colleagues and support for their families. 
Outlook 
Our markets and our balance sheet are much 
improved from last year, but we recognise 
that major short term uncertainties remain. 
Long term however, given continued growth 
and urbanisation of the developing world, 
the outlook for our industry is attractive. 
The exponential growth of China’s demand 
for iron ore, copper, coal and aluminium is 
expected to continue over the next 15 years, 
as the average wealth of many millions of 
people increases. Their consumption of raw 
materials will rise accordingly. As China 
nears the top of the commodity intensity 
usage curve, India is expected to follow, 
supporting a further potential wave of 
strong commodity demand.
For Rio Tinto, 2009 marked a positive 
turning point from which we have emerged 
with our options for growth enhanced. 
Nevertheless, major challenges remain. 
The Tier 1 deposits that are the focus of 
our strategy are becoming harder to fi nd 
and more technologically diffi cult to 
develop. There are pressures in countries 
well endowed with minerals for governments 
to gain a greater proportion of resource rents. 
Together with the executive committee, 
I wish to join our chairman in expressing 
appreciation to all who work for Rio Tinto 
for their contribution to a very busy and 
successful year. All have played a part in 
strengthening the business for our next stage 
of growth. With our strong assets,  growth 
options and great people, we can look 
forward to an exciting future for the Group.
Tom Albanese
Chief executive
