 Chief executive’s statement 
5 
riotinto.com/reportingcentre2013 
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
 
Rio Tinto’s turnaround on track 
Rio Tinto is a truly great business with renewed vigour and purpose,  
focused on delivering greater shareholder value.  
Dear shareholders, 
2013 was a challenging and very rewarding year for Rio Tinto. I was proud  
to be appointed chief executive of your company a year ago at a time when 
shareholders had lost some confidence in the business. Change was needed. 
Trust and confidence in management had to be rebuilt. While I was determined 
that Rio Tinto would not repeat the mistakes of the past, I also recognised the 
solid foundations of an outstanding company with extremely good people  
and assets.  
Transforming our business to focus on greater value for shareholders 
So, while Rio Tinto was in many ways an outstanding business, we needed to 
refocus on meeting the expectations of the owners of our company. I defined 
our 2013 goal as delivering greater value for our shareholders and during the 
year, I personally met with and listened to hundreds of investors and analysts, 
as well as our employees, customers and suppliers across the world.  
They all told me, we want to see Rio Tinto return to a position of strength. 
Similarly, I too want Rio Tinto to be a company admired and recognised not  
just for superior performance but for embodying our values in all that we do.  
In February 2013, I set out my plan to improve and build upon the strong 
foundations of the company. This included creating a tightly-run, and more 
disciplined and accountable business. In 2013, we have done just this and 
forged ahead with a single-minded emphasis on delivering our priorities to 
improve performance, strengthen the balance sheet and deliver results in  
every market in which we operate, everywhere around the world. 
Our performance in 2013 reflects the efforts of all of our 66,000 employees  
to turn this business around. I am humbled by the enthusiasm, passion and 
talent I have seen, and the willingness of all our people to embrace the change 
required and improve performance. Against a backdrop of continuing market 
uncertainty, we have improved earnings and cash flows. We have reduced 
costs, net debt and capital expenditure. We have delivered greater value for 
you, our shareholders, which is reflected in the 15 per cent increase in our  
2013 full year dividend.  
In short, last year, we did what we said we would do. But we are restless to 
improve further. Our 2013 net earnings reflected impairments on some of  
our assets and we are absolutely focused on making sure we improve project 
execution and deliver further business improvements. This, together with 
improving our safety performance, will be our continuing focus in 2014. 
Building a safer business 
While we can look back with pride at the many successes we delivered in 2013, 
we failed to meet our critical goal of no fatalities in our business. Three of our 
colleagues died working at Rio Tinto managed operations last year. Thirty seven 
people died at non-managed operations, including 33 at the Grasberg mine in 
Papua, Indonesia. These are terrible tragedies. With regard to Grasberg, we are 
continuing to work with our joint venture partner to share our safety capabilities 
and learnings so we can both improve our safety performance, and this process 
is ongoing.  
All of these deaths weigh heavily on me personally and I, and my management 
team, feel enormous sorrow for the families and friends of these colleagues. I 
was also deeply saddened by a further fatality at Grasberg and another at the 
Gove refinery this year. I am determined that we will turn our safety 
performance around. We have made significant gains over the course of our 
safety journey but we have more to do. Strong safety leadership, improved 
management of critical risks, and learning from all significant incidents are of 
paramount importance.  
Delivering our strategy  
We are still operating in a volatile macroeconomic environment. Despite more 
optimistic signs coming through from OECD economies, and growth remaining 
relatively strong in developing economies, the underlying structural fragilities 
remain. With volatility expected to continue over the short term, we will stand 
by the priorities we set for ourselves a year ago: to improve performance, 
strengthen the balance sheet and deliver results. These priorities have already 
proved effective in making us a more robust organisation, and with continuing 
focus, we will grow stronger still. 
1. Improving performance 
We exceeded our targets for reducing operating cash costs and exploration  
and evaluation expenditure in 2013. These results demonstrate the exceptional 
work being done across the business to address our cost base. These efforts  
will continue in 2014, in order to reach a US$3 billion improvement in operating 
cash costs versus 2012. Our aim is to sustain exploration and evaluation spend 
at around 2013 levels in 2014 and beyond. 
Our 2013 performance was further bolstered by increased production.  
We set new production records in bauxite, thermal coal and iron ore, and  
across the Group, our total production grew by nine per cent in 2013 on a 
copper equivalent basis. Our focus on productivity will persist in 2014, in 
tandem with our keen eye on costs. Our efforts to reduce costs and increase 
performance, resulted in improved underlying earnings of US$10.2 billion,  
up ten per cent on 2012. 
2. Strengthening our balance sheet 
The excellent performance achieved in reducing costs, together with volume 
growth, is leading to stronger cash flows. Combined with cash inflows from 
divestments and lower capital expenditure, we were more than able to reverse 
the increase in net debt we saw in the first half of the year. 
In November, we announced our breakthrough pathway for expanding our 
Pilbara operations towards 360 million tonnes per annum at a US$3 billion 
lower capital cost than previously planned. This is a clear example of our 
disciplined approach to capital allocation. I am confident we have stronger, 
stricter processes in place for how we allocate capital. As we move forward  
with reinforced systems embedded at the core of our investment approach,  
you have my absolute commitment that each and every dollar we are investing 
on your behalf is being rigorously scrutinised. 
Our focus for the year ahead will be to continue to pay down debt and further 
strengthen the balance sheet. Our aim is to provide the board with options for 
how best to deliver value to you, whether this is through value-accretive growth, 
or returning cash, or a combination of both. 
3. Delivering results 
In keeping with our strategy, 2013 saw the completion of five major capital 
projects that have already started delivering results: the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold 
mine; the first phase of our Pilbara iron ore expansion; the Argyle underground 
diamond mine; the Kestrel coal mine extension; and the AP60 aluminium 
smelter. We expect to deliver strong returns from these key assets in our 
portfolio over the coming years. 
Ongoing commitment 
In 2013 we rose to the challenge and navigated difficult times to emerge as  
a leaner and much stronger company. 2014 will be about locking in the gains 
achieved last year and continuing to strengthen the business. 
I would like to close by paying tribute to all of our employees across the world. 
Without their efforts we would not have been able to turn around the performance 
of the business and I am energised by the effort, enthusiasm and passion for 
improvement which I have seen first-hand in every part of our organisation. Over 
the next 12 months and beyond we will remain focused on safety and upholding 
our values wherever we operate in the world. Above all, we will continue our 
single-minded focus on delivering greater value for you, our shareholders. 
 
 
 
Sam Walsh AO 
Chief executive 
5 March 2014  
Chairman’s letter continued 
4 
riotinto.com/reportingcentre2013 
The board committees have always played an important oversight role, freeing 
your board to focus on strategic matters. The board committees, under the 
effective leadership of their respective chairs, carry out important and 
demanding roles on your board’s behalf and facilitate the embedding of 
effective governance across the organisation. You can read more about the 
work that they do on pages 61 to 63. 
The 2013 board and committee performance is described on page 58. I remain 
comfortable with the effectiveness of your board and the contribution each 
member of your board is making. 
Looking ahead 
I feel very privileged to be the chairman of this wonderful organisation.  
Rio Tinto had to make some significant changes over the last year. Through our 
transformation we are a simpler and stronger company. Through our improved 
earnings and reduced costs we are financially stronger. Through our actions we 
are reducing risk and increasing discipline. Our strategy and priorities are clear.  
I see great opportunities ahead as we build a long-term future for our business. 
The work we do is important, we provide the raw materials used in everyday life 
and as hundreds of millions of people move from rural to urban areas over the 
coming decades, there will be increased demand for the metals and minerals 
we produce.  
I look forward to reporting on the further progress of your company in  
a year’s time. 
 
 
 
Jan du Plessis 
Chairman 
5 March 2014 
 
 
riotinto.com/reportingcentre2013
4
