 3 Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc
Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive’s review
Greater adoption
Introduction
Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc (OHM plc) uses specialist
remote sensing information to help our clients to understand
the subsurface of the earth.The Company was formed to
commercialise the Controlled Source ElectroMagnetic
(CSEM) technique which focused on providing information 
on the nature of electrically resistive bodies in the subsurface
as an aid to oil and gas exploration and development.The
acquisition of Rock Solid Images, during fiscal year 2007 , has
added key skills and capabilities to OHM which will allow the
Group to lead the market in the integration of CSEM with 
the seismic and well logging information which oil companies
traditionally use to examine their subsurface formations.
Our research leads us to believe that there is immense value
to be created in this combination.
The Company was founded in 2002 and was floated on 
the AiM market of the London Stock Exchange in 2004.
Science behind the image 
Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping’s unique capability is to use
the Controlled Source ElectroMagnetic surveying technique,
often in combination with other geophysical remote sensing
techniques, to provide meaningful images of the structure of
the earth which can be used in the search for and production
of hydrocarbons.
In its simplest embodiment, CSEM can be used to detect
anomalous responses associated with resistive bodies in the
earth. Complex processing and analysis of these simple field
responses is required to provide detailed images of the
subsurface to discriminate between signals related to
commercial hydrocarbon deposits and those from other
geologic or topographic features of the subsurface. By using
its unique techniques and software to identify resistive bodies
in the earth that correlate in depth and extent to suspected
hydrocarbon plays, and having resistivity values consistent 
with hydrocarbon saturated sediments, OHM are able to
reduce significantly the risk of their clients drilling non-
commercial wells.
Operating activity in 2007 
Since inception in 2002, OHM’s CSEM equipment packages
have been designed to be portable enabling us to mobilise
them cost effectively to remote locations using commercial
sea freight. Once they arrive in a port close to a client’s work
site, they are mobilised onto locally sourced vessels for the
survey operations to be undertaken. Our skilled survey crews
fly out to join these vessels and execute the surveys. As
industry adoption has progressed, and our order visibility 
has become greater, it made sense for us to move to securing
some dedicated tonnage to meet our offshore survey needs.
Accordingly, we entered into a five year charter for OHM
Express, our new flagship.
At 1 10 metres long, the OHM Express is a relatively large
vessel and has a hull designed for voyages in the rough sea
conditions prevalent in higher attitude seas.This affords her
excellent sea keeping capabilities and provided an excellent
foundation for a purpose designed conversion that has
resulted in a safe, comfortable operating platform for our
CSEM surveys.The vessel entered service in June 2007
conducting surveys in the North Sea, northern Norway, and
the North Atlantic.T o date, the OHM Express has exceeded
our expectations in terms of economy and efficiency.
Elsewhere, our crews performed work in West Africa and in
the Falkland Islands. Our work programme in the Falkland
Islands was hampered by extraordinarily bad weather during
the southern hemisphere summer season.This caused the
survey to be extended beyond the time for which we had the
original vessel chartered.The changeover of vessel that this
necessitated impacted on the profitability of that contract 
and without this our results for the year would have been
even better.
Workloads for our data processing groups in Houston and
Aberdeen have remained extremely high, working on data
acquired by our own field crews as well as applying OHM’s
ever advancing processing and analysis techniques on a
contract basis to clients who wish to enhance data acquired
on earlier contracts or by other contractors.
Our recruitment and training programme has produced a 
good flow of qualified personnel to support both our offshore
operations and onshore processing groups and we are
particularly pleased with this achievement given the competition
for personnel created by an overheated oil and gas industry.
Rock Solid Images 
Rock Solid images (RSI) joined the group in the last weeks 
of our 2007 fiscal year and so made only the smallest of
contributions to our 2007 results.
RSI is the industry leader in the application of rock-physics 
for integrating and calibrating seismic and borehole data to
provide geologic insight and reservoir understanding at all
stages of the oilfield lifecycle.
RSI was founded in November 1998 though the merger of 
The Discovery Bay Company, Seismic Research Corporation
and PetroSoft, Inc. RSI offers a range of products and services
including seismic and well data conditioning, seismic inversion
for rock and fluid properties and software for rock-physics,
seismic modelling and seismic attribute calculation and
classification.
Unique to Rock Solid Images is our LFP (Lithology and 
Fluid Prediction) consortium.This consortium has been in
continuous existence, under a variety of names, since early
1991. 2007 saw the launch of Phase II of our LFP project with
18 oil-industry sponsors supporting our research in rock-
physics, seismic modelling and well-seismic integration.
In 2005, OHM and RSI commenced work together on the
integration of CSEM and seismic data.We found that OHM
and RSI have much in common; a similar culture of high quality
science coupled with exceptional customer service. Initial
joint research gave intriguing insight into the potential for 
total rock and fluid property measurement from the
intelligent combination of CSEM and seismic data and led to
some early patent applications. OHM’s management believe
that this combination will create new products with exciting
application in reservoir management and enhanced recovery
from our clients’ oil and gas reservoirs.This is the justification
for the strategic acquisition of Rock Solid Images.
We have announced to industry the launch of our WISE
project (Well-driven Integration of Seismic and EM data) for
the development of technology, products and services in this
important new area and this has met with a high level of
industry interest.
Safety and the environment 
The Group conducts operations offshore often in hostile and
remote conditions. In order to control the risks associated with
this activity,the Group has developed a comprehensive safety
and environmental management system.This system is
frequently reviewed and updated for new circumstances and 
to capture increasing experience and emerging best practice.
Ownership of the system lies not just with the Group and its
management but with the personnel operating “at the coalface”
whose experience and knowledge are vitally important in the
development and maintenance of safe working regimes.
Dave Pratt
Chief Executive Officer 4 Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc
Annual Report 2007
It is a testament to the dedication of all that we have, for 
the sixth successive year, achieved our goal of conducting our
operations without significant injury, lost time incidents or
accidental damage to our environment. In 2007 we were also
grateful to have received awards from some of our clients for
our HSE performance.
Research and Development 
OHM’s industry leading capabilities are driven by the Group’s
efforts in research and development. In Dr. Lucy MacGregor
and her team we have assembled a group of the leading
researchers in our field.
Our research efforts over the past years have focused on
initiatives to improve the images of the earth that CSEM
provides and to widen the application of the method to a
wider set of geological environments.We lead the market 
in our ability to conduct CSEM operations in a full range of
water depths and to produce images of complex resistive
structures in complex basins.
This work goes on apace, but the addition of Rock Solid
Images heralds an extra layer of research that will focus on 
the derivation and quantitative measurement of rock and fluid
properties from surface geophysical measurements. Co-
operations between the research groups of OHM and RSI
over the last two years has already revealed exciting benefits
from the intelligent combination of CSEM and seismic
measurements of the same piece of the subsurface. Our joint
industry research project with BP and the UK’s Department
for Business Enterprise and Regulatory Reform is also
contributing vital knowledge and understanding in this area,
and is a guiding force in assisting us to prioritise research for
the maximum commercial benefit.
Rock Solid Images have successfully attracted a number of
leading oil companies to their Lithology and Fluid Prediction
Consortium.This client involvement is a valuable tool in
accelerating the adoption of new technology within oil
companies whilst making a valuable contribution to the costs
of research.We are widening this concept with the launch 
of our WISE consortium which will focus on the role that
integrated seismic and CSEM can play in developing
understanding of subsurface rock and fluid properties.
All of this research has valuable impact on our ability to
provide enhanced subsurface understanding to our
exploration clients.This will enable us to stay far ahead of
those that seek to enter the CSEM market.The potentially
bigger prize though is the possibility of developing a significant
new market in applying CSEM, integrated with seismic, to
reservoir monitoring and management.The oil industry
produces only about one third of the oil and gas that it
discovers. Studies to date have shown that reservoir
monitoring and management strategies can significantly
increase the recovery of reserves.The seismic technique 
has been used to provide time lapse images of reservoirs 
as they are produced, but we believe the integration of 
CSEM data into these studies will enable a significantly more
complete understanding of the subsurface performance 
of the reservoir.
Intellectual Property 
The work conducted by OHM’s researchers led to a number
of patent filings in the course of the year adding to OHM’s
growing portfolio of intellectual property rights in the CSEM
space. OHM’s intellectual property strategy is to patent
instrumentation, processes and applications that improve the
effectiveness of the CSEM technique. A competitor has, for a
number of years, pursued a general method patenting strategy
in this area. OHM has always contended that these general
method patent applications were flawed mainly due to the
amount of information relating to the technique that was
published by academics before the commercialisation phase
began.The decision during the year by the European Patent
Office to reject one of these applications seems to support
OHM’s viewpoint.
Financial review 
The growth trend that we saw in our 2006 fiscal year has
continued through 2007. Our revenues for the second half 
of the year were £10.1 million, building on the £7.6 million 
of the first half year.This total revenue for OHM’s traditional
businesses of £17.6 million represents a 69% growth over 
the £10.4 million achieved in fiscal 2006. In addition, we had a
revenue contribution of £0.1 million resulting from nine days
of trading at Rock Solid Images whose acquisition closed near
the end of the fiscal year.
Strong performance in our proprietary, full service survey
activities and advanced data processing groups compensated
for a shortfall in data library sales driven by the postponement
by the Norwegian authorities of the 20th Offshore
Exploration Licensing round.We anticipate that these sales
will flow through now in fiscal 2008.
The gross profit contribution rose to £2.9 million for fiscal
2007 (from £1.4 million a year earlier) representing 17% of
revenue (2006: 13% of revenue). Operating margins continued
to remain under pressure from rising costs of chartering
vessels on the spot market in a tight shipping market and were
further impacted by the cost of sending an additional vessel to
complete work in the Falkland Islands which overran due to
unusually high weather downtime experienced during the
southern hemisphere operating season. However, the
introduction of the OHM Express on long term charter
improved operating margins in our offshore operations
considerably and contributed towards a second half gross
profit of £2.2 million (22% of revenue) for the Group.
Overheads rose from £2.8 million to £4.0 million as the Group
increased its investment in staff and geared up for further growth.
The progress made during fiscal 2007 has reduced the loss
before tax to slightly under £1.0 million from £1.6 million in
2006 and we were pleased to see a net profit of £0.2 million
in the second half of the year following the £1.2 million loss
reported in our Interim Accounts.
The Group has adopted International Financial Reporting
Standards, as approved for use by the European Union in
preparing these Accounts and a reconciliation to the figures
previously reported under UK GAAP has been included in
note 32.The financial impact of adopting IFRS on the Group’s
Income Statement and Balance Sheet has not been significant.
The main areas where adjustments have been made relate to
the accounting for intangible assets, such as patent protection
costs and internally generated software and accounting for
share based payments (such as share options and awards)
made to the Group’s employees.The net impact of these
conversion adjustments was to increase total shareholders’
equity at 1 September 2006 by £0.2 million to £7.2 million.
The Group’s cash balance was a healthy £19.0 million
following successful fund raisings during the year. Some 
of this money is already committed to capital expenditure 
on equipment for our third data acquisition crew, which is
currently under construction.We anticipate that we will bring
this crew into service at the start of the North Sea operating
season in May of 2008 and are preparing for a fourth crew to
follow closely behind if market demand continues to grow as
anticipated.The Group should move to sustained profitability
with the third crew in operation with profits growing as more
crews are added thereafter.
Chief Executive’s Review continued 5 Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc
Annual Report 2007
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Group operates in a competitive environment and many
of its technologies are at the leading edge of industry
capability. Accordingly, the Group’s growth is heavily driven by
the general state of demand for oil and gas exploration and
exploitation services, by the rate of adoption of these
technologies by its oil industry clients and by competitive
pressures created by new entrants seeking to duplicate its
offering.The Group seeks to control these risks through its
marketing and sales strategies and by patenting key elements
of its technology. It invests in research and development to
maintain its lead over its competitors. A number of oil service
companies have indicated intent to enter the Group’s core
offshore electromagnetic market and accordingly earnings
could be impacted if these companies succeeded in developing
a competitive offering which captured market share.
A good portion of the Group’s operations are carried out
offshore and internationally. Offshore operations increase
exposure to certain health, safety and environmental risks.The
Group has well developed operating procedures and a health,
safety and environmental management system through which
it seeks to control these risks and these are regularly audited
by our clients and benchmarked against industry norms and
host government standards to ensure that we are operating at
acceptably high levels in this regard.Where necessary advice is
taken from security consultants before making decisions about
sending staff to countries where there may be a security risk.
Offshore operations can be impacted by conditions beyond
the Group’s control including, but not limited to, the effects 
of weather, tides, currents and third party interference.Where
possible, our operating companies seek to pass as many of
these risks on through their contracts with clients.
Currently, the supply chain in sectors of the oil and gas
industry is exhibiting significant tightness of supply for key
resources like skilled staff and offshore vessels.The Group has
developed training, recruitment, and retention programmes to
endeavour to ensure that it can meet its staffing requirements
going forward.There is a retention scheme for key personnel.
The Group monitors other areas of its supply chain frequently
and seeks to establish strategic relationships with key
suppliers to ensure security of supply.
International operations create an exposure to foreign
currency and foreign tax risks which are, where possible,
mitigated through hedging in the supply chain and in
contractual terms with clients.
In the past there have been challenges to the Group’s freedom
to operate resulting from a competitor attempting to enforce
intellectual property rights.The Group invests in the top
quality legal advice in this area and constantly monitors the
patent landscape around its technologies.T o date, the group
has prevailed in these actions and there are no current
proceedings against any of the Group’s companies, although if
proceedings emerged which lead to adverse rulings in this
area there could be severe restrictions on its operations.
The Group’s companies carry out extensive data processing
operations which rely on large computer assets and complex
proprietary processing software. Interruptions in operations
of these computing resources could impact the Group’s
earnings.The Group seeks to distribute and back up its
computing assets to mitigate these risks.
Trading outlook 
The progressive adoption of our core CSEM technology 
by the exploration industry is leading us to change some 
of our business practices. In the early phases of technology
adoption our customer base was a small number of
technology focused oil companies, and we were able to 
focus on them with a small sales group. As industry adoption
increases, the number of client companies that we have to
address is growing significantly and we are expanding our 
sales force to cope with this.T o boost further our sales
efforts, we have entered into an alliance with CGGVeritas,
a global provider of seismic services. Under this alliance, we
have access to CGGVeritas’ global sales and marketing reach
together with a truly global logistics support network. More
importantly, we will access their long term relationships with
key clients including the prestigious national oil companies
that we anticipate as being significant clients for the future.
Following our fund raising during the year, we are well
advanced with building the equipment and training the
personnel necessary to launch our third marine CSEM 
crew which we plan to bring into service at the start of the
North Sea “season” in May 2008.Work is also scheduled 
to commence on the equipment for our fourth crew which
will follow a few months behind by which time we hope to 
be seeing tangible benefits from our CGGVeritas relationship.
A number of companies have indicated a desire to enter 
the offshore electromagnetic market and we monitor this
situation closely.We believe that the time and cost to 
develop industrial instrumentation together with the rarity 
of experienced EM practitioners represent extremely high
barriers to entry. In addition, our research and development
efforts continue to improve the quality of our offering,
constantly raising the bar in industry requirements.Where
appropriate, OHM applies for patent protection for this
differentiation and our awarded patent portfolio continues 
to grow.
Rock Solid Images’ traditional business area is seeing strong
demand for its services,especially the inversion of seismic data.
W e are recruiting and training more staff in this area to meet
this demand. Our research on the integration of EM data with
seismic and well log data is creating exciting opportunities and
we hope to see commercial products coming to market in this
area within our 2008 fiscal year leading to further growth at RSI.
We seek in 2008 to continue the growth in revenues and
improvements in profitablilty achieved over the last two years.
We are fortunate in having a dedicated team of professional
staff whose efforts have delivered our growth to date and
who are eagerly anticipating the challenges ahead.
Dave Pratt
Chief Executive Officer
19 November 2007
Chief Executive’s Review continued
