 2 Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc
Annual Report 2007
The year to 31 August 2007 will be seen in 
the future as a vintage year for your Company.
Controlled Source ElectroMagnetic (CSEM)
imaging became a mainstream exploration tool,
the Group has emerged unscathed from patent
disputes with a competitor, a strategic alliance
was formed with CGGVeritas, (the world’s
largest seismic contractor) and OHM made 
its first significant acquisition, of Rock Solid
Images (RSI). All of these advances bode well
for the future.
Revenue for the year increased by 70% over last year to 
£17.7 million,and the pre tax loss reduced to £1.0 million.
During the year we raised £24.4 million in three separate
placings of new ordinary shares.The funds raised,including a
substantial subscription by CGGV eritas,allowed us to finance
the acquisition of RSI and provide working capital to invest in
building the business while continuing our important research
and development efforts. Following the acquisition of RSI,cash
balances at the year end amounted to £19 million.
In June 2007 our first dedicated vessel,OHM Express,came 
into service in Northern Europe. OHM Express,specifically
modified for CSEM operations,has already improved our
operational uptime and,even more pleasingly,operated at 
the highest levels of HSE performance.This was recognised 
by a major client awarding us an HSE safety award.
The performance of the OHM Express,the hard work of our
other crew in the South Atlantic Basin,the continuous high level
of data processing,modelling and interpretation,as well as some
multi-client library sales,together made for strong revenue
growth,especially in the fourth quarter .
On the basis of that success,the Board has approved the 
capital expenditure and the long term charter commitment 
of a second vessel,the OHM Leader ,which will also be modified
specifically for CSEM operations. OHM Leader is expected 
to come into service during the second half of 2008.
When OHM listed on AiM in March 2004 we had two principal
medium term objectives:market adoption of the CSEM
technique and taking the science of CSEM further to add 
more commercial value to our offering to clients.
I believe that CSEM is now considered a mainstream
exploration tool. It is already being included in exploration
licence conditions and will in the next few years be included,
as a matter of course,in corporate exploration budget cycles.
This is ahead of the typical industry adoption curve.
Our newly formed alliance with CGGV eritas will allow us 
to access their global marketing strengths and capitalise on
opportunities that we may have found difficult to access on 
our own. CGGV eritas has taken a 15% stake in the Company
which I believe demonstrates a faith in the future value of
CSEM. CGGV eritas’s technical and technology expertise in
marine acquisition,seismic processing and equipment design,
is likely to open interesting avenues of joint research
opportunities,in particular in the field of seismic and
electromagnetic offerings to the industry.
On the science,we have also achieved much of what we
originally set out to accomplish;integration of CSEM with
seismic and the application of CSEM in shallow water or
complex geological settings. Our researchers are now
developing our thinking in terms of the wider integration 
of CSEM with other geophysical data such as well log data,
3 and 4D seismic giving quantitative measurement of rock 
and fluid properties which will have immense benefits for
reservoir characterisation and management.The acquisition 
of RSI will contribute significantly to this effort.
One of the greatest challenges facing the oil industry is to
increase recovery of hydrocarbons from their reservoirs.
Massive investment is being made in complex directional well
drilling and smart completions.This infrastructure investment
will be much more effective if the reservoir is properly
monitored and characterised with enough precision and 
detail to enable these expensive completions to actually 
drain the hydrocarbons left behind by the initial development.
We see this area as a future opportunity for OHM and,in a
joint industry project with BP ,the Department for Business,
Enterprise and Regulatory Reform and the University of
Southampton ,we have embarked on a study of life of field
CSEM monitoring solutions.
Looking forward,reflecting our recent and anticipated growth
we are strengthening our senior management team with the
appointments of David Flett (Regional Manager Asia Pacific) 
and Steve Hunt (Chief Operating Officer).We intend to equip
and train additional crews,charter further survey ships fit for
OHM’s purposes and increase our research and development
spending,in particular in the domain of Seismic-EM integration,
which we see as the next area of growth for your business.
The alliance with CGGV eritas and the purchase of RSI,added 
to the progress of OHM’s own research and development,
have transformed your Group into an entity capable of offering
worldwide marketing reach,safe and efficient acquisition of
CSEM data and ground breaking technologies of the very
nature the oil and gas industry needs to explore,develop 
and produce cost effectively.
It is to the great credit of your management team that they
pursued that vision to transform OHM into the Group that 
it is today.
At the Board level, we benefited from the wise counsel of
Jeffrey Garner whilst he was a Director and I thank him for his
contribution. Gary Jones, who has served as a non-executive
Director for three years has due to his other business
commitments, decided not to stand for re-election at the
forthcoming AGM and accordingly will be resigning following
the announcement of these results. I thank Gary for his loyal
and valuable service to the Company and wish him well for
the future.
The various committees of the Board were very busy during
the year to deliver Corporate Governance of the highest
standard whilst the Group was shifting gear.The Nomination
Committee, recognising the changes in the Group’s future, has
begun a review of the Board composition, strength and skill
matrix with the intention to support the Group with the
appropriate oversight through its next generation of growth.
On behalf of the Board, I thank the whole OHM team of
management, staff, strategic partners and suppliers for their
sterling efforts in taking the Group forward during the last 
12 months.
Dr. Pierre Jungels CBE
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
A vintage year
Dr. Pierre Jungels CBE
Chairman
