 2 Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc
Annual Report 2004
This ﬁnancial year has represented a watershed
for your Company.Our ﬁnancial performance 
was pleasing,with proﬁt after tax of £365,879
compared to a loss of £367,220 the previous year .
In March, we successfully completed the placing of shares
and admission to the Alternative Investment Market in 
London and raised £9.9 million of new money, net of 
costs, to ﬁnance the expected growth in demand for 
our services and technology in what we see as a market
with huge potential.
In June, we extended our contract with a major client,
keeping our ﬁrst crew active in many of the deep water
basins of the Atlantic coasts. I am particularly pleased 
that last year’s work for this crew was completed with 
an outstanding record for health and safety.
Following investment of funds raised in the placing,
we mobilised our second crew in August.The vessel is
equipped with our latest source and receivers and will
initially test, on behalf of a consortium of oil companies,
the validity of our concepts in shallow waters in the
North Sea.
It is then expected to work for various clients in 
Norway and the West Coast of Africa.
We are also investing in additional capacity beyond 
this second crew.
We have made signiﬁcant progress in our integrated 3D
modelling and data processing, gaining several contracts
to reprocess data acquired by others.
At a recent major conference in Paris the presentation 
of our technology and new processing techniques
created a lot of interest amongst potential industry
clients, giving us comfort that Controlled Source
ElectroMagnetic Imaging (CSEMI) will gain industry
acceptance at an accelerating pace.
A cornerstone of our strategy remains the defence of
our existing intellectual property and pursuit of an 
active research and development programme designed 
to maintain our position as industry leader in CSEMI 
and data processing. As part of this effort we maintain
strong links with the University of Southampton.
With new ofﬁces in Aberdeen, management, research,
operations and marketing personnel are able to work
together.That and the strengthening of all teams lay 
the foundation for progress in the future.
Over the past year, oil and gas prices have been very 
ﬁrm through a combination of high demand, reﬁning
capacity constraint especially in the US and lack of
progress in the industry’s ability to access the Middle
East’s hydrocarbon potential.
The lack of recent world class discoveries has led 
to growing concerns over potential future supply
shortfalls. Coupled with many companies’ failure to
replace production, continuing reserve downgrades 
and accelerating depletion of old ﬁelds, the possibility 
of high energy prices for some time to come is very real.
Despite this, the oil and gas companies still appear to run
their planning at prices which are signiﬁcantly lower than
ﬁve or even ten years averages, let alone futures prices.
This may be due to the memory of several periods of low
oil prices in the past and their impact on the industry or,
possibly, to a lack of access to world class opportunities.
In this context, we believe that our company has the
capacity to provide the industry with the technology 
and its application which could change the economic
model of exploration and appraisal offshore by providing
a powerful risk management tool as signiﬁcant as 3D
seismic was in the 1980s.This would allow an increase 
in activity levels even at prudent pricing models.
In line with good corporate governance for listed
companies, we have recently appointed two independent
non-executive directors to the Board: Keith Lough,
formerly Finance Director of British Energy and Lasmo,
and Gary Jones, previously President of Western Geco,
Western Geophysical and Baker Atlas. Both bring 
to the Board key skills which will reinforce our
deliberations.They will offer themselves for election 
at the coming Annual General Meeting.
Finally, I would like to thank our CEO, Dave Pratt, the
teams, both onshore and offshore, and management 
of OHM for all their hard work over the past 12 months.
Their efforts should place your Company at the centre 
of an exciting step change in exploration for oil and gas.
Dr Pierre Jungels CBE
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
Gaining industry acceptance
Dr Pierre Jungels
Chairman Pre-survey modelling is a vital part of the
process, as it determines to a great extent 
just how valuable the work to be undertaken
will ultimately be. As the electric dipole
source provides a three-dimensional signal,
the placement of the receivers for the survey
is of absolute importance. OHM works
closely with its clients to ensure optimisation
of the survey.
> Below left: Electromagnetic
inversion constrained by seismic data.
Below right: Receiver deployment.
Main image: Detail of survey
geometry.
Planning
