 4 Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc
Annual Report 2004
In ﬁscal year 2004,the Company made 
immense progress in attaining its strategic goals
of establishing itself as the leading provider of 
the Controlled Source ElectroMagnetic Imaging
(CSEMI) service to the oil industry and of
promoting the use of the technique by industry.
The Company made substantial advances in 
each area of its service offering,and recruited 
and trained key operational staff.
The Company’s new headquarters in Aberdeen were
opened by Lewis Macdonald MSP , Deputy Minister for
Enterprise and Life Long Learning, and provide us with
excellent workshop facilities in the oil capital of Europe,
together with ﬂexible work areas which should be able 
to support the Company’s likely expansion needs over
the next few years.
OHM provides a range of services including:
> survey design using our in-house software to model
acquisition parameters from clients’ geological scenarios,
> data acquisition using our own proprietary sources 
and receivers,
> data processing and interpretation using proprietary
software.
The Company also focuses a large part of its efforts 
on research and development aimed at improving the
capabilities of the technique. In co-operation with the
University of Southampton short courses are offered 
to industry allowing oil company explorationists to 
fully understand the technique, its beneﬁts, and how 
to incorporate it into their workﬂows.
T raditionally the oil industry has used the seismic
technique, and especially 3D seismic, to assist in the
search for oil and gas.The seismic technique uses
acoustic energy to provide an image of structures in 
the earth, and interpreters use this to identify areas 
that could potentially trap oil and gas. However, the
seismic technique gives relatively little information on 
the nature of the ﬂuids within these structures, and the
oil industry has to drill into these structures to test for
the presence of oil and gas, with the large majority 
of exploration wells being commercially unsuccessful.
As hydrocarbon saturated reservoirs are generally very
resistive compared to water saturated sediments, the
presence of resistive bodies within these structures can
be compelling evidence of the presence of hydrocarbons
and can signiﬁcantly reduce the risk of drilling dry wells.
As the CSEMI technique is signiﬁcantly more cost effective
than drilling, oil explorers can afford to test many more
prospects and hence reduce the risk of relinquishing
acreage that contains undiscovered hydrocarbons.
CSEMI and the value created
CSEMI is an offshore geophysical technique which uses
electromagnetic measurements of the subsurface
resistivity to reduce uncertainty in exploration, appraisal
and production drilling programmes. A controlled
electromagnetic source is towed at depth, generating 
a deep penetrating ﬁeld which is measured by receivers
placed on the seabed.The recorded data, after advanced
processing and interpretation, produce images of the
subsurface resistivity structure which, when integrated
with all other available information, can signiﬁcantly
improve the understanding of the hydrocarbon producing
potential of the prospect.
With deep water wells costing many tens of millions of
dollars, the value created in avoiding unsuccessful wells is
high. However, even this value may be small compared to
the value of a discovery made on a prospect that would
not otherwise have been tested.
Industry adoption
OHM’s largest client during the year employed one 
of the Company’s ﬁeld crews for most of the year , and 
have used the technique in a number of deepwater 
basins around the world.Through early adoption of the
technique, OHM believe that their client, an international
oil company who cannot be named for contractual
reasons, are enjoying signiﬁcant competitive advantage 
over their peers and have gained a signiﬁcant lead in 
their understanding of the beneﬁts that the technique 
can deliver .
Chief Executive’s Review
Immense progress made
Dave Pratt
Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer Execution
The technique uses a dipole source towed
just above (typically 30 metres) the seaﬂoor.
OHM’s source (DASI) emits complex low
frequency electromagnetic signals that diffuse
outwards through the water column, and
into the underlying sediments.The resulting
electric ﬁelds are measured by OHM’s
receivers on the seaﬂoor.
> DASI ( Deep towed Active Source
Instrument) during deployment 
and recovery. 6 Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc
Annual Report 2004
OHM are now experiencing strong interest from most
other oil majors and many of the leading independent oil
companies, and believe that mass industry adoption of
the method will follow in the foreseeable future.
OHM have recently commissioned a second ﬁeld crew,
using the latest generation of OHM’s equipment to
address the early part of this anticipated demand, and 
the Company stands ready to make further expansions 
as is warranted by industry demand.
Health,safety and the environment
The Company believes that it best serves its stakeholders
by ensuring that its activities are carried out in a safe and
environmentally sensitive manner.
The Company has invested signiﬁcantly in the
development of a comprehensive safety management
system which has given our staff the tools to perform
complex operations in difﬁcult environments while
assessing and controlling the risks involved. In the last
year, our crews operated in offshore environments
ranging from tropical to arctic climes. We recruited 
new staff and trained them to operate new equipment.
It is a testament to the diligence of our staff, and the
effectiveness of our safety management systems that 
this was all achieved without serious injury or lost 
time incidents.
The Company also retained the services of third party
specialists to undertake a comprehensive analysis of the
potential environmental impact of our activities.Their
ﬁndings show that our activities have no signiﬁcant
environmental impact and are considerably more benign
than other remote sensing techniques used in industry.
In fact, by preventing the drilling of unnecessary oil and
gas wells, it is likely that we will have a positive
environmental impact.
Research and development
Our strategic aim is to use focused research and
development to improve the utility of our product 
for our oil company clients and to cement our place 
as the technological leader in the CSEMI ﬁeld. In 2004,
our research and development effort focused on three 
main fronts:
1 Improving signal to noise ratios in our data enabling 
us to image ever more subtle and deeper targets.The
introduction of our third generation transmitter system
(DASI III) early in 2004 has led to more than a 25-fold
improvement in signal to noise ratios and our latest
generation of receivers (EFMALS II) exhibit noise ﬂoors
signiﬁcantly below anything we have had available in the
past. Both these systems are proprietary to OHM and
are part of an ongoing development process which we
expect to bear more fruit in 2005.
2 Improving our ability to produce images of the 
resistive nature of the subsurface. In ﬁscal year 2004 
we developed the ability to create three dimensional
inversions of our ﬁeld data enabling complex images to
be produced of the resistivity structure of the subsurface.
At a major industry convention in June, we announced 
a signiﬁcant breakthrough in how CSEMI data can be
imaged using non invertive techniques and this has led to
high levels of industry interest and to a number of data
reprocessing contracts. Our aim is to deliver images of
the resistivity of the earth to our clients, which they can
co-render with their existing seismic data and geological
models to allow them to achieve a fuller understanding 
of their exploration objectives.
3 Extending our ability to operate in shallower water
environments. We completed a project, sponsored by 
a consortium of oil companies, to investigate fully the
nature of the ‘airwave’ problem in which energy trapped
at the seawater/air interface overwhelms the useful
information contained in signals coming from subsurface
targets in areas where targets are particularly deep, or
where the water depths are shallow. Armed with this
improved understanding, we have opened up a number 
of research avenues which show great promise in
overcoming these problems and which should lead to a
signiﬁcant increase in potential market for our technique.
We anticipate that this research will lead to further
progress in 2005 and to a number of proof of concept
surveys to show the effectiveness of these advances.
In addition to this research, which is conducted in house,
we sponsor ongoing research at the University of
Southampton and at Scripps Institution of Oceanography 
in California.
Through our research and development efforts we 
have proprietary electromagnetic transmitters,
electromagnetic receivers and data processing suites 
that are speciﬁcally designed for CSEMI operations and
we believe that this creates signiﬁcant security both in
our supply chain and in our technical edge. Our research
team have clear views on how future improvements will
be made in each of these areas, and we expect to deliver
incremental improvements in capability over the years 
to come.
Chief Executive’s Review continued > Above: A priori data.
Right: Detail of swath receiver 
simulations over a 3D earth.
Main image: Co-rendered
electromagnetic inversion/surface 
seismic data.
Siesmic data courtesy TGS Nopec
Interpretation
OHM’s people have developed their
interpretative skills over many years, and 
this part of the process is key to creating 
real value for the client. OHM’s advanced
forward and inverse techniques combined
with high speed imaging methods make 
up some of the tools designed to deliver
results to directly inﬂuence decision making. 8 Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc
Annual Report 2004
Financial performance
In this, our second year of trading, we are delighted to
report that the Company has achieved pre-tax proﬁts 
of £404,021 on revenues of £4,678,597. A signiﬁcant
contribution towards this result has been our
performance on a long term contract with one major
client. However, material contributions have also come
from data processing and interpretation carried out on
surveys gathered by our competitors, and from feasibility
modelling studies conducted on exploration prospects 
of potential new customers. We believe that the data
processing and interpretation element of our business
will continue to grow as clients become more aware 
of the possibilities of the CSEMI technique, and of our
technical lead in this area. Feasibility study work should
lead to future data acquisition and processing projects.
Our gross margins before depreciation of capital
equipment show that industry recognises the value 
of our method. Our net proﬁt before tax of £404,021
is due largely to signiﬁcant expenditure in research and
development, and to aggressive amortisation and write
off of early generations of our equipment, which have
often been rapidly overtaken by improvements coming
out of our research and development. We expect that
our current generation of sources and receivers are likely
to be the workhorses of our business for years to come,
and while we anticipate no slowing down in research 
and development effort, we will be applying longer
depreciation periods to reﬂect these anticipated longer
working lives.
Operating activities generated positive cash ﬂows during
the year and funded signiﬁcant portions of our capital
expenditure for equipment for our second crew. We end
the year in a strong cash position, with reserves which
will allow us to rapidly react to industry demand growth,
and to maintain business stability through any periods 
of sporadic demand that may occur during this phase 
of early client adoption of our technology.
Current trading outlook
We believe that we are making tremendous progress in
solving the issues that prevent the CSEMI method being
used in shallow water areas. As we need to gather data
over known oil ﬁelds to prove this concept, we are
dedicating blocks of time on our second ﬁeld crew to
accelerate research and development efforts in this area
in 2005. We expect this not only to maintain our lead in
this area, but to bring to early fruition the added value
from offering our services in this new market, assuming 
a successful outcome.
Since completing the 2004 ﬁscal year end, we have had 
an incident resulting in the loss of the DASI III transmitter
on our long term contract crew, with a resulting
requirement to send our ﬁrst DASI IV to that crew.
A second DASI IV is in production and will be delivered
within a matter of weeks to replace that unit.
These issues are likely to impact on proﬁtability in 
ﬁscal 2005.
We continue to see strong evidence from the oil
companies that they have signiﬁcant increases in their
planned work in calendar year 2005 and we are actively
involved in discussions and negotiations with potential
clients for work in 2005.
In summary
The last year has been one of signiﬁcant progress for 
the Company. We have developed the capability to 
offer industry the full range of services surrounding 
our technique and have made signiﬁcant progress in
encouraging industry adoption. We have operated for
demanding clients in demanding locations and we have
delivered results in line with our ﬁnancial performance
expectations. We have made immense progress in
building the infrastructure necessary to grow the
Company to meet anticipated demand.
I am also very pleased to observe that the Company 
has generated proﬁts at such an early stage in its
development, and should acknowledge the hard 
work and dedication of all the Company’s staff who 
have contributed greatly to this achievement.
Our successful ﬂotation on AiM in London has given 
us the resources to support future expansion and 
our research and development efforts continue to
improve the effectiveness of our technique. Our focus 
in 2005 will be to build on our achievements of 2004 
by continuing to invest in research and development,
promoting industry adoption, and growing capacity to
meet demand as it arises.The difﬁculty in forecasting
exact demand levels through this period of industry
adoption requires us to be vigilant and ﬂexible in 
planning and managing our growth but we are conﬁdent
that our technique delivers game changing value to our 
clients and that widespread adoption is inevitable.
Dave Pratt
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Chief Executive’s Review continued
