 I am pleased to report that your Company has enjoyed another very
successful year, delivering a third successive record set of results.This
demonstrates the effectiveness of the Group’s focus on operating a
service-led rather than product-driven offering to its customers.
Significant progress has been made across all the major parts of the
enlarged Group, which today has 27 offices in towns and cities across
the UK.
I am also pleased to report that the team has continued to achieve
organic growth in both turnover and profits.At the same time, we
have successfully integrated major acquisitions, furthering our goal of
expanding our regionally focused operations across the length and
breadth of the UK.
Results and dividend
Overall Group turnover was up 72% from £221m to £380m with
pre-tax profits (before goodwill amortisation and 2002 exceptional
item) rising 67% from £6.8m to £11.4m.After the full year impact of
the additional shares in issue as a result of the Llewellyn acquisition,
earnings per share (before goodwill amortisation and 2002
exceptional item) rose by 35% to 32.1p.The organic performance
was also very strong with turnover excluding acquisitions increasing
by 32%.
In line with our stated policy of growing the dividend at
approximately half the rate of growth in earnings per share, the
Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.65p, making a total
dividend for the year of 6.4p, up 16% on the 5.5p paid for 2002.The
final dividend will be paid on 7 May 2004 to shareholders on the
register on 2 April 2004.
Objectives
The Board is committed to be judged against the clear targets it has
set out. For 2003, the key tasks we set were:
★ To demonstrate our ability to integrate and extract significant 
shareholder value from substantial acquisitions whilst continuing 
to drive organic growth in revenue and margin.
★ To reorganise Rokforce, our building maintenance service 
operation, and prepare the platform for significant growth.
★ To strengthen the executive team in preparation for the next 
stage in the Group’s development.
I am pleased to report that each of the above tasks has substantially
been achieved.
Driving value through cultural change and customer service
In September 2002, we acquired Llewellyn and effectively doubled
the scale of the Group.The business was swiftly restructured and
integrated. Key to our success in transforming this business was the
significant investment made in changing the underlying culture to
reflect the Rok model with its focus on customer service rather than
product provision.This has resulted in pre-tax margins in Llewellyn’s
core building activities increasing from zero to 1.8% mirroring the
progress made in the original Group when we embarked on a similar
process in 2001.All operations which were non-core to our service
offerings of ‘develop’,‘build’ and ‘maintain’ were disposed of, the last
substantial element being the plant hire business that was sold in
May. Similarly, some 90% of the property portfolio that came with the
acquisition has now been developed and sold.
In November, we seized the opportunity to acquire four branches in
Glasgow,Teesside, Manchester and Ellesmere Port, following the
receivership of Ballast Plc.The integration of these operations and
the cultural change process is well underway to drive productivity,
service and margins.
Where the Rok brand experience is consistently being delivered
across a number of building operations within the original Group, we
are regularly achieving the 3% optimum pre-tax margin that we
expect in current trading conditions. Overall, the original Rok
building activities achieved a 43% growth in revenues and increased
net pre-tax margins to 2.2% (2002: 1.8%).
Rokforce, which delivers our premium maintenance service, was the
focus of major reorganisation during the year.This reorganisation,
coupled with the particularly mild weather throughout 2003, led to a
drop in net pre-tax margin from these operations to 5.8% 
(2002: 7.9%). However, we are confident that our actions have now
created a robust structure and platform for substantial growth in this
area.The flexible cost base we have created and the continuing
investment in systems give us confidence of increasing revenues and
returns in the current and future years.
Chairman’s statement
Rok annual report 03
6
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 6 7
Galliford T ry
In November 2003, Rok withdrew its interest in pursuing an offer for
Galliford Try plc following their board’s refusal to engage with us and
to facilitate due diligence.We believe our indicative offer represented
significant value and beyond that level it was not in the best interests
of our shareholders to pursue this approach any further.
People
We have made excellent progress in strengthening our executive
team. In September 2003, we welcomed Ashley Martin as Group
Finance Director. His experience in substantial, devolved and
empowered organisations is proving invaluable.
He succeeded Michael Bailey, who had been with the Group since
1985 and Finance Director since 1990.We are most grateful to Mike
for his valued contribution and dedicated service over these years.
A number of other senior executive roles were identified and filled
during the year, reflecting the Group’s increased scale and ambitions.
This process is continuing in 2004.
Strategy
Our strategy remains to drive growth organically from existing
branches and by acquisition, supplemented by opening in-fill branches
to create a local presence throughout the UK.
In every acquisition we make, we look for good core technical skills
and a local reputation restricted, in performance terms, by traditional
hierarchical management structures and the common industry focus
on selling product on the basis of lowest price.We de-layer the
management structure, streamline the administrative processes and
invest substantially in training our people to deliver a service culture.
We are committed to achieving a brand experience for employees,
suppliers, subcontractors and customers that is enjoyable, rewarding
and fun.We take this very seriously – it is what makes us different
from ‘traditional’ companies in our sector and what helps us achieve
industry leading margins and long-lasting relationships with all our
stakeholders.
Prospects
The UK building economy remains strong, especially in the regions
buoyed by continuing strong demand from the public sector in
health, education and housing.The acquisition of four new offices in
the North from Ballast and other new branch openings will give
further momentum in the current year.The Rokeagle development
pipeline continues to be healthy with strong visibility of revenues and
margins for the current year and beyond. Rokforce, having been 
reorganised and embedded into our building units, coupled with
flexibility now built into the cost base, should lead to significant
increases in revenue and return from this activity over the coming
years.The Group is also well placed financially to take advantage of
acquisition opportunities that may arise in fulfilling its strategy of
providing property solutions on a national scale.
Whilst much has been achieved in the last year, this only serves to
emphasise the Group’s potential and gives us confidence that 2004
should be another year of significant progress.
Bob Carlton-Porter
Chairman
15 March 2004
Rok annual report 03
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 7
