 Chief Executive’s review
Rok annual report 03
8
Rok set itself apart from its peer group in Spring 2001 when it set
out its vision for the future with its property solutions strategy.The
aim was to revolutionise the way in which people could experience
and value a property development, building and maintenance service.
Our key differentiator is to treat customers as individuals and to
provide a bespoke service to meet their needs rather than a
product-led offering.
2003 was the third year of this strategy implementation; this set of
results clearly demonstrates its effectiveness.They are also a
testament to the dedication and efforts of all 1,600 members of the
Rok team.
Rokeagle
Property development
At the start of 2003, widespread misgivings and concerns were
expressed nationally about commercial property development –
these issues never manifested themselves in Rokeagle. Demand for
the type of service and product we deliver strengthened throughout
the year, and continues in the same vein in the current year.
Why? Rokeagle continues to focus on providing tenant-led solutions,
avoiding speculative development unless economies of scale, in terms
of build cost, negate the associated risk. Our strategy revolves
around acquiring well-located land near major infrastructure routes
or with high tenant demand in, or adjacent to, key towns and smaller
cities across the regions where the Group has a strong presence. On
purchase, the land always has a minimum of outline planning
permission for the proposed use, although we do ensure a continuing
supply of land via low cost, option type agreements that are subject
to planning approval.Any associated costs of this activity are written
off as they arise. Raw material in the form of land and buildings for
redevelopment generally equates to approximately three years’
supply.
Completed developments are sold to the investment market, usually
on occupation and completion, with larger developments, normally in
excess of £5 million gross value, being pre-sold with interim financing
to major financial institutions.This approach enables us to minimise
risk and smooth the flow of returns. However, the majority of our
developments would be viewed as being at the smaller end, with
typical gross values of an individual unit being less than £2 million.
Consequently we spread investment and risk from development
activity over a wide geographical area and capitalise on
our local contacts and knowledge.
At the start of the year, Rokeagle teams were located at Exeter,
Southampton and Crawley. In September, Bristol was added and
coverage will be further enhanced by the creation of a team in
Milton Keynes during the current year.
The Exeter team last year continued to extract value from Matford
Park to the south of the city and completed the 80,000 sq ft EDF
Energy regional centre at Exeter Business Park to much acclaim.A
45,000 sq ft headquarters for regional lawyers Bevan Ashford is
under construction at the same location and a joint development
with Scarborough Developments of two buildings totalling 103,000
sq ft is on site in the city centre.We also completed the first phase
of Plymouth International Business Park and recently gained planning
permission for an out of town retail scheme in Bodmin.
The Bristol office was opened as a result of the success of the first
two phases of Eden Office Park near junction 19 of the M5 and the
team are already well advanced in negotiating a major part pre-let
development in the city centre. Other smaller scale opportunities are
progressing in Gloucester, Clevedon and the surrounding area.
Southampton successfully completed the first phase of a small office
scheme at The Links, Solent Business Park and is on site with a
substantially pre-let office unit at Eagle Point at Segensworth.A
number of other projects are underway in the area and we expect a
significant contribution to revenues from this office during the
current year.
The Crawley team spent a considerable proportion of its efforts in
2003 extracting value from the property portfolio acquired with
Llewellyn and subsequently re-investing the proceeds in other
opportunities in the region.The team has recently been
supplemented with another senior development executive.These
two actions should ensure the creation of projects over the next few
years in the South East on a similar scale to those in the South West.
In Milton Keynes, we disposed of the substantial part of the eight and
a half acre industrial site acquired with Llewellyn and are investing in
land for a commercial development that will commence in the
current year.
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 8 Our brand, your experience | EMPLOYEES
IT HAS BEEN BRILLIANT
AND I HAVE NOT REALLY
LOOKED BACK. I CAN LOOK
BACK AND KNOW I WAS
INVOLVED, THAT’S COOL.
CHANCE TO GO UP AND UP.
CHALLENGING BUT I PREFER
THAT. WE CAN PICK UP THE
PHONE AND IT WILL BE
SORTED. WILL PUSH YOU
THAT EXTRA MILE. I FEEL
SECURE HERE.
RELATIONSHIPS ARE GOOD.
ENCOURAGING ME.
OPERATES THROUGH
TEAMWORK. HARD
WORKING BUT RELAXED.
VIBRANT BUZZY AND FUN.
VERY REWARDING. AN
EXCITING PLACE TO WORK.
ROK ALLOWS YOU TO
DEVELOP YOUR OWN SKILLS.
THE BEST. PROUD TO BE
ASSOCIATED WITH IT.
BRILLIANT SECURE
COOL ENCOURAGING
CHALLENGING TEAMWORK
SORTED BUZZY
EXCITING BEST
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 9 Jake Snell,Trainee Site Manager,Yeovil
My father was a carpenter and I used to help him. So was my
brother. I decided that was what I wanted to do so I sent letters to
local companies and the first one I had back was a nice one from
Rok. It has been brilliant and I have not really looked back since. It
just feels as if they appreciate you more here. I am an assistant site
manager now and doing a course at College. I feel secure here and
know that the company will train me if I show willing and will
respond by trying its hardest to get me where I want to be.
Although I am still young, Rok has given me opportunities and I am
grateful. It makes me feel I don’t want to let them down. I am
acquiring more people skills but if I felt I needed to develop them
further I know I could ask and it would be arranged. People here
take an interest and the atmosphere is good.When a project is
finished and I can look back and know I was involved, that’s cool.
Another thing I like is when the tenant representative on the site
where I am working at the moment gives me a good report and it
makes everything worthwhile. I think I have the chance to go up and
up in the company running my own sites because if you want to do
something and show willing, the company will do all it can. If the
company feels you are good in a role it will push you that extra mile
and help you get there through training.We are able to be quite self-
sufficient but we know if there are any problems we can pick up the
phone and it will be sorted. Relationships are good here and it is
friendly, hard working but relaxed.There is pressure and it is
challenging but I prefer that because you never get bored.
Maria Bond,Area Director, Oxford
Rok has a vision of being something different and of being the best
so it is an exciting place to work and fast moving.The world is your
oyster here as long as you can keep up with the pace. It is a
company that cares about its brand because it recognises how
important that is in everything it does and it makes people proud to
be associated with it. I enjoy working in the construction industry as
I like using my brain as well as being outside in the fresh air and I
like the challenge of it. I have been lucky as I have worked with
people who have seen potential in me, creating opportunities and
encouraging me to go for them. In Oxford we have gone from
nothing to having a business with a substantial amount of work
secured and making a name for itself in just 18 months, which is
very rewarding.Virtually all our technicians have been recruited
without going through an agency which shows we are attracting
people who want to work with us. I am pleased that the board has
put its trust in me to deliver and glad it has given me this role
because men and women do think differently and my presence gives
a broader approach to the management strategy. Rok allows you to
develop your own skills in your own way but operates through
teamwork. Everybody pulls together and supports each other.They
say it is a ‘vibrant, buzzy and fun’ place to work
Rok as a place to work
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 10 Our brand, your experience | EMPLOYEES One Rok office found the Smart
solution to the environmental and
financial costs of travel with the
delivery of an economical, low
emission, pool car.
There was a Champagne moment
for the Rok team responsible for the
look of one of the newest, most
dynamic Rok offices on its opening
night.
BRILLIANT SECURE
COOL ENCOURAGING
CHALLENGING TEAMWORK
SORTED BUZZY
EXCITING BEST
Rok annual report 03
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 11 Rok
Build
As part of the Group’s property solutions strategy, we endeavour to
be recognised as the premier local builder in each of the locations
from which we operate.To achieve this, we encourage our local
teams to focus on their immediate area, gaining substantial market
share by providing exemplary service levels, delivered by local people
who are as interested in ensuring community and local business
success as the clients they serve.
Every town used to have its premier local builder/developer who
was both trusted by and part of that community.We aim to replicate
this model across the UK using the scale of the Group to provide
greater purchasing power, technical knowledge, better working
conditions and career opportunities.This enables us to provide cost
parity and expertise akin to large construction organisations in a way
that smaller businesses are traditionally unable to do.
Local leadership is also a key element of the Group’s success.We
encourage our local leaders to perceive themselves as businessmen
delivering building services through their local team.They are
encouraged to avoid a common error of the industry, that of 
‘over-managing’ their people, rather to coach and guide team
members to exceed their own personal goals and expectations
within a clearly defined set of values. Leadership training is therefore
a key expenditure and cost £120,000 in 2003. More will be spent in
the current year and beyond to ensure a continuing supply of 
home-grown talent to support the Group’s ambitious growth plans.
We started 2003 with 14 outlets for our building operations and
ended with 20,Taunton was opened in January 2004, with more
branches due to open in Newcastle and Bodmin in the near future.A
number of the original Rok branches, where the risk-averse service
culture is truly embedded, regularly achieve net operating margins in
excess of 3% - the optimum rate we see in current market
conditions.Therefore, a lot of emphasis in 2003 has been placed on
developing this culture in the branches that were acquired as part of
the Llewellyn acquisition in 2002 and latterly in the four that joined
the Group in November following the receivership of Ballast Plc. In
total, during the year, some £400,000 was spent on service culture
training alone and involved 1,200 team members.This level of
expenditure will continue into 2004.
Every Rok outlet, as a minimum, is expected to deliver premium
building maintenance under the Rokforce brand and smaller scale
building services.Area offices provide larger contracting services in a
region that might contain two or three smaller outlets.All work as a
team to develop local market share.
We seek to ensure that, through extensive training and development
programmes, the technical skills of the Group match the industry’s
best, but competitive advantage comes from the manner in which
these are delivered.
By these key methods every outlet we open or acquire is expected
to reach the optimum operating margin within three years. Llewellyn
construction and building activities at acquisition in September 2002
were making zero net margin. Structural reorganisation and removing
outmoded administration and management systems gave an
immediate boost going into 2003 and the Rok culture changes have
already pushed margins to 1.8% at the pre-tax level for the full year.
Meanwhile the original Rok business has moved pre-tax margins to
2.2% in 2003 (2002: 1.8%), whilst driving organic growth 43% to
£160m of sales (2002: £111m).
At the time of the Llewellyn acquisition, it was recognised that the
company had a considerable reputation and expertise in social
housing at a time when the Government is committed to increasing
expenditure in this area.We intend to become a significant player in
this market and continue to spread this expertise across the Group.
Chief Executive’s review
Rok annual report 03
12
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 12 AN EXCELLENT PLACE
WHICH WORKS WELL. FELT
FANTASTIC HAVING THEM
HERE. THE TEAM WAS
FLEXIBLE AND
UNDERSTANDING. A GOOD
FEELING OF CO-OPERATION
BETWEEN THE PARTIES. IT
WAS FUN AND THEY
ENTERED INTO THE SPIRIT.
NOT RIGID IN THE WAY IT
GOES ABOUT THINGS.
PROFESSIONAL AND
CUSTOMER ORIENTATED.
WENT THAT EXTRA MILE TO
DELIVER AN EXCEPTIONAL
SERVICE. SHOWN THAT IT IS
SERVICE-DRIVEN.
EXPERIENCE HAS BEEN VERY
GOOD. CONSISTENT SITE
TEAM. THE SITE MANAGER
WAS A STAR. EASY TO TALK
TO. ADVANCED PROCEDURES.
APPRECIATION OF OUR
NEEDS AS THE END USERS.
Our brand, your experience | CUSTOMERS
EXCELLENT FANTASTIC
FLEXIBLE CO-OPERATION
FUN PROFESSIONAL
SERVICE-DRIVEN EXCEPTIONAL
ADVANCED CONSISTENT
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 13 Peter Flukes, Scott Business Park, Plymouth
The finished park is an excellent place, which works well for
business and for us. It is a real credit to the design and build team
and the proof of the pudding is that we only have one industrial unit
and three offices left out of the 34 mixed units that were available
following completion and handover in July 2003.We are enjoying the
benefits of the build quality and it was obvious that the site team
took a pride in their work. It felt fantastic having them here.The site
manager was a star and he was our first point of contact.The team
was flexible and understanding in changing things where necessary as
the project went along.They were easy to talk to and there was a
good feeling of co-operation between the parties. It was fun and
they entered into the spirit of what we were trying to provide.They
showed an appreciation of our needs as the end users and I was
impressed that they were able to allow us to continue our other
activities on the site and to work around these other demands,
whilst maintaining good progress on the contract and the highest
standards of safety.When it was finished we threw a party for the
site team because they deserved it and should be proud of what
they have achieved and left for us to use.
Mike Dale, Pentagon, Fareham
The overall experience has been very good.That is down to the
calibre of the people that Rok employs which mirrors our own
philosophy. Rok is a professional and customer-orientated company
that has moved the construction industry into the service industry.
Rok recognised us as the customer and on many occasions went
that extra mile to deliver an exceptional service.The company has
been caring and committed throughout and shown that it is service-
driven.At project commencement we stressed that success would
depend on a high quality and consistent site team, and in both
respects we have been satisfied.We have now confidently employed
Rok to work on a third project for us in Winchester.The team’s
flexibility has allowed us to work alongside. It is not rigid in the way
it goes about things and yet the necessary discipline is there, keeping
the site safe and tidy. It matters to us how our sites look even
before they are finished and Rok has come with us on that.We have
also been impressed by the advanced procedures Rok employs in
terms of health and safety.
Rok in action
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 14 Gadeon House was developed and
built for EDF Energy in Exeter and
opened by the Princess Royal.
Rok has built new Mercedes
dealerships for Pentagon at
Chichester and Southampton and is
working on a third at Winchester.
Our brand, your experience | CUSTOMERS
EXCELLENT FANTASTIC
FLEXIBLE CO-OPERATION
FUN PROFESSIONAL
SERVICE-DRIVEN EXCEPTIONAL
ADVANCED CONSISTENT
Rok annual report 03
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 15 Rokforce
Premium building maintenance
Research indicates that during the 20 years after construction of a
commercial building five times the amount spent on its construction
is spent on servicing and maintaining the facility. Much of this is spent
on fabric repairs, alterations and preventive maintenance.The
building industry’s response to this demand is to leave it to small
local operations or through the provision of wide area, cost driven,
scheduled maintenance providers with the associated high level of
administration costs.
Rokforce provides an alternative national premium service. It is low
on administration costs because of simple billing systems but high in
value-adding quality services that are widely available and reliable.
Our technicians are typically multi-skilled tradesmen trained to
understand our customers’ needs and empowered to take the
decisions that exceed their expectations. Customers can access this
service from either their local branch or via our 24 hour customer
contact centre.
At the beginning of 2003, Rokforce was structured as an
independent business within the Group.At that time it engaged
other parts of the Group and associate suppliers to deliver
maintenance services, most of which were classified ‘urgent
response’ for our national clients, primarily comprising insurance
companies and high street retailers.At the same time, many of our
existing building outlets were also selling maintenance services
locally, typically at lower margins, trading as Rok and treating
Rokforce as any other customer.
We recognised that this was leading to a duplication of costs and
causing internal friction; more importantly, this was preventing the
Group from accessing the potential of Rokforce.Therefore, we have
reorganised this activity during the year so that it is now traded as a
branded building maintenance service from within Rok outlets,
overseen by a Rokforce Brand Director. Local outlets support a
Rokforce team of technicians and a Rokforce service co-ordinator.
This new structure provides a flexibility of resource levels which
enables us to manage fluctuating demand effectively and efficiently.
Responsibility for management and customer service has been
devolved from the customer contact centre in Glasgow to the local
branches which directly benefit from the success of this activity.The
customer contact centre has been reorganised, new IT systems are
being installed and the whole unit is soon to combine with the
Glasgow based Ballast business acquired in November 2003.
Despite the restructuring of Rokforce, progress was made during
2003 in broadening our customer base over a wide geographical
area. Increases in market share were achieved in all our established
locations as more customers enjoyed the Rok service proposition.
Of particular note is our relationship with Royal and Sun Alliance
where during the year, following a review of their 100+ suppliers of
domestic insurance repair work, Rokforce was chosen to be the sole
supplier in much of Southern England, South Wales and Northern
Ireland.
Chief Executive’s review
Rok annual report 03
16
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 16 VALUED COMMITTED
AMAZING UNDERSTANDING
ENERGETIC LIKE-MINDED
NEW WONDERFUL
RELIABLE FORWARD-THINKING
A VALUED CUSTOMER FOR
WHOM WE WILL GO THAT
EXTRA MILE. WITH ROK IT
HAS BEEN AMAZING. GOOD
RELATIONSHIPS ARE
GROWING UP BETWEEN OUR
COMPANIES ON LOCAL
LEVELS. COMMITTED TO
CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT.
THERE IS A MUTUAL
UNDERSTANDING. AN EASY
ACCOUNT TO MANAGE. THE
WHOLE ORGANISATION
FOLLOWED THROUGH. AN
ENERGETIC, FORWARD
THINKING APPROACH. WE
ARE LIKE-MINDED AND
HAVE THE SAME GOALS. NOT
CONFRONTATIONAL WHICH
IS WONDERFUL.A NEW
APPROACH IN THE
INDUSTRY. IT IS ABOUT
TEAMWORK. IF WE ARE
RELIABLE THEN ROK WILL BE
RELIABLE. BOTH SIDES ARE
WORKING HARD AT THE
RELATIONSHIP. FORWARD-
THINKING WAY IN WHICH IT
OPERATES.
Our brand, your experience | SUPPLIERS
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 17 Charles Skinner, Brandon T ool Hire
We have had a long-standing relationship with Rok and are now sole
supplier of its tools which guarantees us a high level of turnover and
is good for Rok as it is a valued customer for whom we will go that
extra mile.We have had similar agreements with other companies
but these have often had little impact on our business whereas with
Rok it has been amazing.Within a couple of months of the
agreement we had all its business and the leap in our turnover was a
straight line up. It was terrific and reflects fantastically well on Rok’s
organisation.The company’s word was enough and the whole
organisation followed through.The lines of communication and the
willingness to work together in Rok meant the whole organisation
delivered and remarkably quickly. Both sides are working hard at the
relationship which is going well and both are committed to continual
improvement so we are always asking what we can do to make life
easier.This kind of relationship has huge benefits for both parties.
Instead of having to have sales representatives visiting Rok sites to
persuade them to use us, we can spend the money on providing a
better service. Good relationships are growing up between our
companies on local levels between the Rokforce people and our
branches which is good because there is a mutual understanding of
what is required. It’s an energetic, forward thinking approach, which
many other companies have considered in theory but few have been
able to deliver in the way that Rok has.
Dave Williams, National Account Manager, Jewson
It is a pleasure to deal with Rok.The people are not confrontational
which is wonderful.We have been able to provide information on
what is purchased across the group which makes it easier for us to
fine tune our service and get the prices right.This is only possible
because of the open and honest relationship we have and it is a new
approach in the industry. Rok was one of the first and its approach
has benefits for both parties as well as for its own customers. Rok is
growing very fast and it is sometimes difficult to keep up but we can
see how it is bringing its culture to the companies it acquires. It is an
easy account to manage because it runs so smoothly which means
we are being given the right information first time, which is fantastic.
We are like-minded and have the same goals and we know that if we
are reliable then Rok will be reliable.We agree that a quality service
is more important than simply going for the cheapest price. It is
about teamwork and when a situation needs to be resolved it is
resolved in an adult fashion.Although Rok is not the biggest
company we deal with, it is one of our biggest accounts because of
the forward-thinking way in which it operates.
Rok as a customer
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 18 Rok recognises the advantages of a
smooth and efficient supply chain
and passes the cost and time saving
benefits on to its customers.
Deals with sole suppliers have meant
Rok employees can apply their core
skills to projects without the
distraction of chasing lower prices
and delivery dates for materials.
Rok annual report 03
VALUED COMMITTED
AMAZING UNDERSTANDING
ENERGETIC LIKE-MINDED
NEW WONDERFUL
RELIABLE FORWARD-THINKING
Our brand, your experience | SUPPLIERS
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 19 Spaceage
Building components
Progress was made in Spaceage Plastics during 2003 which is sadly
not reflected by the pre-tax profit of £0.1m.The marketplace for
both plastic building products and conservatory roofs remained
challenging throughout the year due to the Iraqi war followed by the
long hot summer and a failure in the usual pre-Christmas surge in
demand. 2004 has commenced with demand continuing below
expectations but signs of an uplift are emerging.The new assembly
unit for conservatory roofs came on stream in September and is
already leading to improvements in quality and productivity.We shall
continue to look to capitalise on our position in this activity.
UK economy
The recent rise in interest rates has had no appreciable impact on
demand for any of our core activities. If, as predicted, they continue
to rise and have the effect of slowing down house price inflation and
consequently, demand for new houses, the effect on Rok’s building
and construction activities in the medium term would be positive as
competitive pressures impacted on our supplier base. Our view,
however, is that the main driver for housing inflation is the restrictive
planning process, and it will take a considerable sustained hike in
interest rates to have any material effect. Meanwhile, public spending
is continuing to expand although it is questionable whether this
trend can continue without increased tax revenues. However, we do
not envisage any significant slowdown in demand from this sector in
the near future. Maintenance will continue whatever 
macro-economic pressures exist.
The commercial property world is eagerly awaiting the Chancellor’s
paper on Real Estate Investment Trusts.Whatever form this takes, it
is likely to increase demand for property investment opportunities of
the type that Rokeagle produces.
Industry overview
The building and construction industry forms over 8% of GDP, yet is
highly fragmented, slow to change and shy of embracing the
efficiencies of scale and modern technology that have impacted on
other industries in recent decades.The labour force is ageing with
recruitment and training failing to keep pace with retirement.All
these factors, we believe, will conspire to drive consolidation in the
sector towards financially strong groups which have the scale to
provide good training and career opportunities, which value their
employees and which offer their customers a premium service whilst
accessing the benefits of integrated supply chains. Rok intends to
remain a consolidator in this process.
Prospects
I have every confidence that Rok will continue to grow both
organically and by acquisition fuelled by the enthusiasm and drive of
the whole team.We all enjoy the success that comes from using our
technical skills in a way that enhances the experience for our
customers, suppliers and the communities of which we are a part.
With our strong order book of £250m and exciting opportunities
ahead of us, I look forward to reporting another successful year in
2004.
Garvis D Snook
Chief Executive
15 March 2004
Chief Executive’s review
Rok annual report 03
20
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 20 HAS ALWAYS BEEN HELPFUL.
PROFESSIONALISM IS WHAT
STANDS OUT. HONEST WITH
EACH OTHER. HAVE BEEN
VERY RESPONSIVE TO THE
NEED TO CHANGE. WE ARE
ALL WINNING. EVERYONE IS
HELPFUL AND OPEN.
WORKING WITH ROK AND
THE SUPPLY CHAIN BECOMES
FAR MORE PRODUCTIVE AND
INDEED ENJOYABLE. TAKING
A LOT OF INITIATIVE. A
CLEAR UNDERSTANDING OF
WHAT THE CLIENT NEEDS.
THE MOST RECENT PROJECT
WE COMPLETED WAS THE
BEST SO FAR. A STRONG
TEAM. RESOURCES TO
ENSURE IT DELIVERS. WE ARE
LEARNING TOGETHER AND
GROWING TOGETHER.
RECOGNISES ITS 
RESPONSIBILITIES.VERY
PRAGMATIC. A TRUE
PARTNERSHIP FROM THE
BEGINNING.
Our brand, your experience | PARTNERS
HELPFUL ENJOYABLE
HONEST CLEAR
RESPONSIVE STRONG
WINNING DELIVERS
OPEN PRAGMATIC
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 21 Paul Read, East Dorset Housing Association
We have worked together for a number of years and it is obvious
that Rok is continually improving and adapting to the changing
environment.As a company it is prepared to invest in the resources
to ensure it delivers and it is getting increasingly better levels of
client satisfaction for its services.The culture to improve and adapt
comes from the top and is being reflected on site and at the front
end of the business. Because of the service Rok is providing it is
getting a clear understanding of what the client needs.There is an
open book relationship and it is obvious the new way of working is
reflected on site and percolating down into the supply chain.As the
teams focus on achieving mutual business goals and processes
become repeated and refined, working with Rok and the supply
chain becomes far more productive and indeed enjoyable. It can be
difficult for companies if the client is not willing to change but
together we have been very responsive to the need to change. Rok
is taking a lot of initiative and often coming up with suggestions of
ways of doing things differently. Our measurements of performance
are being met and exceeded by the company and both parties are
aware of the need for measurement so that we can show our clients
just how well we are performing. Rok recognises this is an advantage
not a threat and the most recent project we completed was the
best so far. By working this way we can come up with ways of
reducing costs during the project and we are all winning as a result.
We are learning together and growing together side by side.What
makes it work is not just the special relationship but the
performance Rok achieves.
Tony Fowles,Tropus Ltd
We are working with Rok on a hospital at Willesden and have put
together a bid for another scheme.The company’s attitude is one of
complete professionalism. It recognises its responsibilities and I
would not hesitate to recommend Rok to any other client. I could
not speak more highly of it. Rok has always been helpful and
understood what the aim is and how we are all trying to achieve a
successful project. Everyone is looking to make a profit and Rok
does not shy away from the fact. It is very pragmatic. Its profes-
sionalism is what stands out.The project at Willesden is going well
and is ahead of programme. Everyone is helpful and open. If there
are issues that need addressing the team is quite happy to discuss
them and make sure they are resolved satisfactorily.The partnership
begins when you are putting a bid together and it takes a long time.
It has to be a true partnership from the beginning otherwise the
parties are not going to be honest with each other.You have to pull
together in the right direction. Rok shows a willingness and an
understanding of its responsibilities for what is within its control. It
is professional in its manner and is a strong team.A project will
succeed if the personalities gel together and I like having Rok on
board.
Rok as a partner
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 22 Rok has formed strong working
partnerships with organisations
serving a variety of sectors, in
particular health, education and
social housing.
At Glastonbury in Somerset, Rok is
working with Ryhurst Ltd to build a
new Community Hospital and near
Bigbury in Devon it has just
completed timber framed, affordable
housing for Tor Homes.
Our brand, your experience | PARTNERS
HELPFUL ENJOYABLE
HONEST CLEAR
RESPONSIVE STRONG
WINNING DELIVERS
OPEN PRAGMATIC
Rok annual report 03
FRONT section 1-30_17/3  17/3/04  4:14 PM  Page 23
