 04
Chairman’ s statement
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005
We have continued to demonstrate the
strength of our business model and to create
value for shareholders.
Simon Robertson Chairman
10885 R&A 2005 actual  15/3/06  07:55  Page 04 Having completed my ﬁrst 12 months as
Chairman, I am delighted to be able to report
another year of strong progress for the Group.
We have continued to demonstrate the
strength of our business model and to create
value for shareholders.
Our ﬁnancial results for 2005 reﬂect the
value of past investment and of the Group’s
consistent strategy. Underlying proﬁts rose by 
49 per cent, earnings per share by 55 per cent
and debt levels were signiﬁcantly reduced.
We are therefore proposing an increase in the
payment to shareholders.
Rolls-Royce is continuing to invest in 
new technologies, products and programmes.
The long-term nature of these investments 
and the increasing numbers of our engines in
service should enable the Group to generate
growth and improving returns over many years.
The Group attaches a particular priority to
the environment by investing in technologies
which minimise the environmental impact of
our operations and products.
We also take seriously our obligations to all
our stakeholders as we believe that excellence
in corporate responsibility delivers competitive
advantage and long-term success.
There have been a number of Board
changes over the year. After nearly 40 years 
with the Group, Mike Howse retired from the
Board in June as Director of Engineering and
Technology and has been succeeded by 
Colin Smith. I would like to thank Mike for 
the outstanding contribution he has made.
Colin Smith has been with the Group for over
30 years and brings to the Board a similar
wealth of engineering expertise.
We announced in January of this year that 
Colin Green is to retire from the Group and 
the Board in April. Again, I would like to thank
Colin for the huge contribution he has made 
to the Company and to the aerospace industry,
which was publicly recognised last year when
he received a well deserved CBE.
As foreshadowed in last year’s report, Iain
Conn has joined the Board as a non-executive
director and has brought to our discussions 
his extensive international business experience.
I would like to thank the management 
and all our employees very much for another
successful year.Their commitment has been
outstanding. I should also pay tribute to my
fellow directors for the considerable contribution
they have made in support of the Group.
Our past investments have enabled us to
build strong positions in markets which offer
long-term growth.Looking forward, we continue
to lay the foundations for long-term success
and value creation in a demanding international
business environment. I expect the Group 
to continue to make progress in 2006, as the
returns from past investments grow while 
we continue to invest in new technologies 
and products.
Simon Robertson Chairman
February 8, 2006
05
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005
10885 R&A 2005 actual  15/3/06  07:55  Page 05
