 I am delighted to have joined Rolls-Royce at a time when the
 
Group is well positioned to take advantage of past investments.
 
Our ﬁnancial results for 2004 demonstrate continuing 
improvement. Proﬁts increased by 21 per cent, earnings per share 
by 19 per cent, and debt levels were signiﬁcantly down on last year. 
The directors are proposing that the Group maintains its payment 
to shareholders. 
In 2004, the Group celebrated the centenary of the ﬁrst
 
meeting between Charles Rolls and Henry Royce. During its 
 
100-year history, Rolls-Royce has created one of the world’s most
 
powerful and renowned brands and is today ﬁrmly established 
 
as a successful, international power-systems business.
 
The Group has developed a portfolio of products and 
services with leading market positions and is particularly well 
represented on the new generation of platforms that will shape 
the power-systems market for the next 50 years.The long-term 
nature of these programmes and the increasing number of engines 
in service should generate more stable and yet growing returns for 
the Group over many years. 
I would like to thank my fellow Board members for their 
support and their contribution to this success. I would also like to 
pay tribute to the commitment and excellence of our management 
and workforce at a time of considerable change for the Group. 
I owe a particular debt to Euan Baird, our former Chairman, 
who retired in June following an illness. He made a very strong 
contribution in the short period he served as Chairman and I wish 
him well for the future. I would also like to thank Lord Moore very 
much for his skilful stewardship of the Group over the last year and 
for the contribution he made to the Board as a non-executive director. 
There have been a number of other important 
 
Board changes.
 
Sir John Taylor joined the Board as a non-executive director 
last November and his technical and engineering background will 
be invaluable to the Group. 
Iain Conn was appointed as a non-executive director 
 
last month and will bring to the Board a wealth of international
 
business experience.
 
Sir Robin Nicholson will be retiring at the conclusion of 
our next Annual General Meeting and I would like to pay particular 
tribute to the signiﬁcant and lasting contribution he has made over 
the many years he has served on the Board. Sir John Weston retired 
in December and again I would like to thank him for his support 
and contribution in his time as a non-executive director. 
Rolls-Royce is emerging from a period of difﬁcult market
 
conditions. Recent results demonstrate the effectiveness of our
 
business model and its ability to generate value for shareholders.
 
While market conditions remain challenging, we look forward to
 
the future with conﬁdence.
 
business model and its 
l 
Chairman’ s statement 
Simon Robertson 
These results demonstrate 
the effectiveness of our 
ability to generate value 
for shareholders. 
10 0 
2004 marked 100 years since 
the historic ﬁrst meeting of 
Charles Rolls and Henry Royce. 
The Group celebrated this 
with events around the wor d. 
Simon Robertson Chairman
 
February 9, 2005
 
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2004 04 
