 06
Chief Executive’ s review
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005
Rolls-Royce continued to make 
good ﬁnancial progress in 2005.
Sir John Rose Chief Executive
10885 R&A 2005 actual  15/3/06  07:56  Page 06 07
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005
Rolls-Royce continued to make good ﬁnancial
progress in 2005, with a substantial increase in
our proﬁtability and cash ﬂow. By cutting costs
and working more efﬁciently, we were able to
counter the impact of higher commodity prices
and an adverse trend in our achieved US dollar
exchange rate. It was good to see the results
reﬂected in a rising share price.
We continue to grow organically and 
our sales increased in 2005 by 11 per cent to
£6,603 million, with growth achieved in each 
of the Group’s market sectors. Our underlying
proﬁt, on a like-for-like basis, increased by 49 per
cent and a strong cash inﬂow of £552 million
resulted in positive net funds of £335 million on
the balance sheet at the year-end.Average net
debt was reduced by a further 59 per cent,
to £260 million.
Underlying earnings per share rose 55 per
cent to 24.14p and basic earnings per share 
rose 29 per cent to 20.11p. A ﬁnal payment to
shareholders has been proposed of 5.38p per
share, making a total payment for the year of
8.72p per share, a 6.6 per cent increase
compared to the payment in 2004.
We attach great importance to minimising
the impact on our ﬁnances of volatility in the
global currency markets.We continued in 2005
to pursue our strategy of hedging future net
dollar revenues and at the end of the year we
had approximately US$10.5 billion of forward
cover, at an average exchange rate of 
1.67 dollars to the pound.The achieved rate in
2005 deteriorated by four cents relative to 2004.
We will use this hedge book – in conjunction
with cost-reduction initiatives and further
‘dollarisation’of our cost base – to manage 
our future foreign exchange exposure.
We believe it desirable to continue to increase
the strength of the balance sheet, reﬂecting the
long-term nature of the business.This will also
stand us in good stead as we manage pension
obligations over the coming years.
New orders in 2005 reached a record level
of £11.3 billion, and brought the year-end ﬁrm
order book to a record £22.9 billion, an increase
of 21 per cent over 2004.Over the past ten years,
the order book has grown at an annual
compound rate of 14 per cent. Over the past
ﬁve years, Asia has been a signiﬁcant source 
of new business and it now represents 
33 per cent of the order book.
Progress in Asia
Growth in Asia is prompting more air travel,
both for business and for pleasure, increasing
the energy requirements to support industrial
development and larger numbers of afﬂuent
homes. It is stimulating investment in oil and
gas exploration and transmission and it is
boosting orders for marine propulsion systems
from Asia’s ship building industries, now the
largest and fastest growing in the world.
These are all target markets for Rolls-Royce 
and we are beneﬁting accordingly.In 2005 
sales to the region increased by 18 per cent 
and the order book for the region increased 
by 70 per cent.
Our physical presence in Asia is also
growing.We incorporated a new subsidiary 
in Bangalore, in order to expand engineering
capacity over a range of new programmes.
We established a joint venture in Singapore,
to develop a commercially viable power system
based on solid oxide fuel cell technology.
We opened a new marine factory in Shanghai,
from which the Group’s £300 million turnover
merchant business will be managed. And we
established new sources of supply in markets
such as China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore
and Taiwan.
All this added to the increasingly international
nature of the Group.Today 40 per cent of our
employees work outside the UK, 87 per cent 
of our sales are to destinations outside the UK
and we have ofﬁces, manufacturing and locally-
supported service facilities in 50 countries.
Priorities
We focused on three priority areas in 2005.
– Investment in technology and products
Acquisition of new technologies is
conducted very methodically.We aim to
have ‘on-the-shelf’innovations ready to
incorporate into our next generation of
products, whilst at the same time exploring
what might be possible further into the
future.We see no shortage of market
opportunities and expect the level of 
self-funded investment in our research 
and development work to remain at
approximately ﬁve per cent of Group sales.
The impact of this investment on our
income in any one year will reﬂect the mix
and maturity of our current development
programmes. During 2005 we launched 
a number of new programmes, notably 
the Trent 1700 for the Airbus A350 and 
the Avon 200, an upgrade of the existing 
Avon engine that has been so successful 
in the energy sector.
Total Shareholder Return (index)
Total Shareholder Return over 10 years  Rolls-Royce against FTSE 1 00
FTSE 100 Rolls-Royce
0
12/1995 12/1996 12/1997 12/1998 12/1999 12/2000 12/2001 12/2002 12/2003 12/2004 12/2005
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Delivering shareholder value
10885 R&A 2005 actual  15/3/06  07:56  Page 07 08
Chief Executive’ s review continued
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005
– Operational and unit cost reduction
We made further progress in improving
efﬁciency, thereby offsetting the impact 
of higher commodity prices by cutting
costs.We achieved this by increasing
productivity in our plants, managing 
our supply chain better and buying more 
from low-cost sources.Where we had 
to carry higher inventories to facilitate 
our factory-modernisation programme,
we more than offset their ﬁnancial impact
through a rigorous management of our
working capital. Importantly, more efﬁcient
working practices were implemented as 
a pre-condition for new factory investment.
A signiﬁcantly higher work load, particularly
in relation to our civil aerospace engines,
has challenged the ability of our supply
chain to match our needs and this remains
an area for attention.
– Continued development of 
aftermarket services
Aftermarket service revenues, including 
100 per cent of our repair and overhaul
joint ventures, increased by 12 per cent in
2005 and have grown at 11 per cent per
annum compound over the past ten years.
Services now represent 54 per cent of our
revenues.This is a consequence of the
successful broadening of the Group’s product
range, the steady increase in the number of
our engines in service and the investment
we have made in a comprehensive range
of aftermarket-service capabilities.
Increasingly, we are taking responsibility
for the maintenance of our engines and
systems under long-term service agreements.
This aligns our commercial interests closely
with those of our customers, and maximises
the value that our skills and assets can 
add. During 2005 a number of innovative
service agreements were announced 
in each of the Group’s business sectors.
Technology and the environment 
We continued to pay particular attention 
in 2005 to the environmental impact of our
products and of our manufacturing operations.
In civil aerospace, our strategy is to seek to
maintain the beneﬁts to society of the growth
in air travel, whilst helping to rein back as 
much as possible the negative consequences 
of air travel for the global environment.We are
accordingly pursuing new technologies that
should enable us to meet a series of highly
demanding environmental targets, described 
in more detail on pages 36 and 37.
We will succeed in this because our
engineers and scientists have the skills and
dedication to tackle some daunting technical
challenges.Their talents are a timely reminder 
of the importance of attracting gifted
individuals to a career in the sciences. As a
Group, we are increasingly impressed by the
commitment to science teaching in many
countries, especially in Asia.The picture in the
UK, though, is very different with increasing
evidence that young people’s enthusiasm 
for the physical sciences is in decline.
To help address this issue, in 2004 we
introduced the Rolls-Royce Science Prize. It has
been designed to reward imaginative science-
teaching projects in the classrooms of the UK
and Ireland each year, across all ages.
It offers substantial cash awards for the
winning entrants. It gathered momentum
encouragingly in 2005, with a 55 per cent
increase in the number of schools taking part 
in the prize as compared with its inaugural year.
Community
The Group’s other community activities in 
2005 were far ranging.They involved the active
participation and generosity of our employees.
This was notably true of our response to the 
sad consequences of both the tsunami that
struck in the Indian Ocean just before the start
of the year and the Gulf of Mexico hurricanes
that swept across the southern US in
September. Employees added over £250,000 
of their own money to our corporate donations
of £500,000 for recovery projects in Asia.
Several of these were supported by Rolls-Royce
managers and engineers based in the region.
In the US, where three sites with 136 employees
were directly affected, Group assistance was
similarly backed up by generous support from
Rolls-Royce colleagues.
We received a Gold Award from the UK
Institute of Fundraising in 2005 for our Payroll
Giving Scheme.This provides and pays for the
administration of employees’donations to
charity, enabling them to be made regularly 
and in a tax-efﬁcient way. Employees last year
gave in excess of £396,000 to charities of their
own choosing.
Employees
Our contribution to community activities
reﬂects a strong corporate culture that 
remains one of the Group’s most valuable
assets. It owes much to the unusually long
average tenure of our employees, many of
whom spend their entire careers with 
Rolls-Royce. It is therefore especially pleasing
that the rise in our share price will beneﬁt a
broad constituency of shareholders within 
the company, with a signiﬁcant number of our
employees participating in ‘sharesave’schemes
and a large number owning shares directly.
A consistent strategy ,built around ﬁve objectives
All four of our market sectors are characterised
by strong demand trends that stretch well 
into the future. Our business strategy is built
around ﬁve key objectives:
Address four global markets 
We are a leading power-systems company,
operating in the civil and defence aerospace,
marine and energy markets.We manufacture 
in 20 countries and serve customers in 
150 countries.
Invest in technology,
capability and infrastructure
Over the past ﬁve years we have invested
more than £3 billion in research and
development.We invest on average £30 million
annually on training,and the Group invests 
£200 – £300 million every year in capital projects.
10885 R&A 2005 actual  15/3/06  07:56  Page 08 09
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005
Our improved ﬁnancial performance has 
also meant that, for the ﬁrst time in many 
years, executive share options have vested.
The vesting of this component of executive
remuneration is tied to performance criteria
designed with a view to securing and
rewarding long-term success. It is worth 
noting that our executive directors all 
own, either directly or in trust, substantial
shareholdings in Rolls-Royce.This demonstrates
their commitment to the Group, and has the
added beneﬁt of aligning their personal
interests with those of all other shareholders.
Future prospects
Rolls-Royce is addressing four long-term growth
markets.Their aggregate demand for engines
and services over the next 20 years is estimated
to be worth approximately two trillion dollars.
The Group’s consistent investment in
technology and in new products and services
enables us to respond effectively to new
developments, creating opportunities for
organic growth in each of the four markets.
In civil aerospace, we see the market
continuing to recover from the recession that
began at the start of this decade, the impact of
which was exacerbated by the events of 9/11,
SARS and the Gulf War.We expect to beneﬁt
further from this recovery.The number of 
Rolls-Royce jet engines in service is increasing
and ﬂying hours across our ﬂeet are
accumulating steadily.This growth, combined
with our broadening of the services we make
available, is expected to lead to a steady
increase in our service revenues.
In defence aerospace, we have developed a
broad product portfolio that addresses all of the
major market sectors, from combat and trainer
aircraft to transport and tactical aircraft and
helicopters. Our mix of mature programmes,
new production programmes, development
programmes and service revenues is expected
to enable the Group to make good progress in
spite of the volatility that may be experienced
on individual programmes, as exempliﬁed by
the uncertainties surrounding the alternate
engine for the Joint Strike Fighter in the wake 
of the US Quadrennial Defense Review.
Our marine business is beneﬁting from its
broad access to naval and commercial markets.
Here again, we are bringing new products to
market, from gas turbines such as the MT30 
to rim-driven tunnel thrusters, which we believe
are likely to have a major impact on marine
propulsion systems. Boosted by the rise in oil
and gas prices, the commercial offshore market
remains very strong – and we are conﬁdent 
that we can continue to capture a good share
of the available business.
Our energy business is strengthening its
presence in emerging oil and gas markets and
is well positioned to secure a growing share 
of the power-generation market. Its proﬁtability
will be constrained for some time by the
investments it is making in new technology –
including the development of solid-oxide fuel
cell systems.
In aggregate, we are expecting continued
progress in 2006, underpinned by the rising
order book, the growth in service revenues 
and sustained cost reduction. As a result,
though we see no likelihood of any reduction 
in competitive intensity in our markets, we do
expect increased proﬁts and a positive cash
ﬂow for the year.
The proposed increase in the payment to
shareholders for 2005 represents an increase 
of 6.6 per cent over the payment made in 2004.
This reﬂects our conﬁdence in the future
prospects of the business. I would like here to
acknowledge the hard work and dedication of
all the people in Rolls-Royce around the world
that have helped us establish this position.
Sir John Rose Chief Executive
Develop a competitive portfolio 
of products and services
Our strong product portfolio means that 
we are involved in many of the major future
projects in the markets we serve.These key
projects will shape the power-systems market
for the next 50 years.
Grow market share and 
installed product base 
Across the Group, the growing number 
of engines in service and their long service 
lives are expected to generate attractive 
returns over many decades.
Add value through the provision 
of product-related services
We seek to add value for our customers 
with aftermarket services that will enhance 
the performance and reliability of our products.
This approach is fundamental to developing
and sustaining collaborative long-term
relationships in all our markets.
10885 R&A 2005 actual  15/3/06  07:56  Page 09 Innovation
10885 R&A 2005 actual  15/3/06  07:56  Page 10 Rolls-Royce programmes have long 
life-cycles,often lasting more than 50 years.
Our technology-acquisition strategy is focused
on both developing new products and
enhancing their through-life performance.
Main image:
Trent 1000 for the Boeing 787
The image shows a close-up of compressor blades used 
in the Trent 1000 engine. This member of the Trent family 
is in development for the new Boeing 787 family of airliners.
Rolls-Royce has secured important new customers on this
programme, such as ANA of Japan and Northwest Airlines
of the US.
Below:
Airbus A380
The ﬁrst ﬂight of the Airbus A380 took place on April 27,
2005, powered by four Trent 900 engines. As the next Trent 
to enter service, the Trent 900 features an advanced hollow
swept fan, contra-rotating and 3-D computer-designed
compressors and a low NOx combustor, all developed 
as a result of our investment in new technology.
Below:
Fuel cells 
Rolls-Royce is developing this technology with a view 
to producing a new source of energy characterised 
by minimal noise and emission levels. Rolls-Royce Fuel 
Cell Systems is building a fuel cell that, if successful,
will produce a commercially viable one-megawatt,
stationary power system capable of servicing the energy
needs of, for example, a business park or large hospital.
Below:
TP400
This large 11,000 shaft horsepower (shp) turboprop 
engine is being developed by Europrop International,
a consortium in which Rolls-Royce is a major partner.
The engine will power the Airbus A400M transport aircraft
and is scheduled for certiﬁcation in 2007. More than 750
engines will be required to meet the needs of the partners
in the programme: Germany, France, the UK, Spain,Turkey,
Belgium and Luxembourg.
Focused investment in technology and products
10885 R&A 2005 actual  15/3/06  07:56  Page 11 We are investing in new facilities and 
the most efﬁcient working practices,
to manufacture high value-added 
components in our factories. We also 
work closely with a highly capable
international supply chain.
Main image and below:
Derby
Two new facilities, each costing £50 million, have been built
in Derby providing additional capacity for the production 
of compressor systems and for our aero-engine repair &
overhaul (AR&O) business. A programme of investment 
in engine testbeds is also under way.
Below:
Shanghai
Our largest investment yet in China, the new marine facility
in Shanghai, will produce a wide range of propulsion and
steering systems and deck machinery for the fast-growing
shipyards of north-east Asia.
Below:
Bristol
Bristol is a main centre for the Group’s military 
engine activities and here £80 million is being 
invested in new facilities for the manufacture of 
turbine systems and components and their assembly 
into ﬁnished gas turbines.
Operational and unit cost reduction
10885 R&A 2005 actual  15/3/06  07:56  Page 12 Integrity
10885 R&A 2005 actual  15/3/06  07:56  Page 13 Rolls-Royce provides reliable products and 
a comprehensive range of product-related
services. Our long-term support contracts
enable us to add value for our customers by
using our technology and skills to help them
achieve their objectives.
Reliability
10885 R&A 2005 actual  15/3/06  07:56  Page 14 Main image:
Euroﬁghter Typhoon
Under a £57 million contract signed in 2005, Rolls-Royce 
will provide a complete support package that will ensure
the RAF always has enough EJ200 engines available 
to meet its expanding ﬂying programme for the new
Euroﬁghter Typhoon aircraft, which has just entered service.
Below:
Marine
A long-term service contract worth £137 million has been
agreed for our marine business to support Rolls-Royce 
gas turbines in service with the Royal Navy and the French,
Belgian and Royal Netherlands navies.This service and
support contract runs until 2017 and covers Olympus and
Tyne engines powering 27 ships.
Below:
Customer care
Both the civil aerospace and defence aerospace businesses
are now running Operations Centres – based at Derby and
Bristol respectively – providing 24-hour in-service support
for customers.The centres monitor engine operations 
in real time, co-ordinating and integrating data that allow 
Rolls-Royce to provide better predictive information and
operational advice to customers.
Below:
Building relationships
Malaysian oil and gas giant PETRONAS and Rolls-Royce 
have been fostering stronger customer/supplier links
through a successful technology-transfer programme.
The programme has seen Rolls-Royce increase the
knowledge and expertise in gas turbine technology 
of key PETRONAS personnel. It has involved training 
and hands-on experience for PETRONAS participants 
at Rolls-Royce facilities in Europe and North America.
Continued development of aftermarket services
10885 R&A 2005 actual  15/3/06  07:56  Page 15
