 In 2013, Rolls-Royce continued to grow  
its order book and expand its portfolio.  
The Group increased its underlying profits, 
and underlying revenues. The order book 
increased to £71.6 billion. 
This performance demonstrates both the 
long-term demand for our products and 
services, and the confidence our customers 
place in us. 
We strive continually to improve quality, 
performance and cost. To that end we invest 
in innovation, infrastructure and in the 
global workforce upon whose ability and 
ambition our current and future success 
entirely depends. I am impressed every day 
by the commitment and professionalism of 
my colleagues around the world and I thank 
them for their hard work.
The leaders of the Group have devoted 
considerable time and energy into 
articulating the vision, values, strategy and 
business priorities that we share, as well  
as setting out the standards of behaviours 
expected from everybody at Rolls-Royce. 
Providing clarity on these core beliefs,  
and making sure they are understood by 
everyone in the Group will enable us to 
better serve our customers and secure  
a profitable future for our employees and 
shareholders. 
Vision: better power for a changing world
Values: trusted to deliver excellence
Strategy: customer, innovation,  
profitable growth
These are described in greater length on 
pages 8 and 9.
Our business priorities in 2013 remained  
the same as in previous years, and have been 
characterised as ‘The 4 Cs’:
Customer – deliver on the promises  
we have made
Concentration – decide where to grow  
and where not to
Cost and Cash – improve financial 
performance
In 2013, we have made progress in all of 
these, although there remains much more  
to do.
Customer
It is essential that we deliver on the promises 
made to our customers. Across the business 
we have significantly improved on-time 
delivery. This foundational step will 
strengthen our customer relationships and 
drive more efficient use of resources, such  
as inventory. In Civil aerospace, on-time 
delivery to our wide-body customers was  
100 per cent in 2013 for the first time. 
In 2013, major milestones were achieved  
in a number of important programmes.  
The Airbus A350 XWB flew for the first time 
powered by our Trent XWB engines. We have 
now received orders for more than 
1,600 Trent XWBs, making this our best-
selling Trent engine. The Trent 1000 engine, 
which powers the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, 
has achieved the best performance of any 
new wide-body engine entering service, with 
a 99.9 per cent despatch reliability. In June, it 
was selected by Singapore Airlines to power 
50 Boeing 787 aircraft. In Marine, the first of 
our innovative Environships went to sea. This 
vessel combines a wave-piercing bow, 
gas-powered engines and advanced 
propulsion systems that together reduce CO 2 
emissions by 40 per cent, compared with 
equivalent diesel-powered vessels. Lastly,  
BAE Systems announced that the UK’s Type 26 
Destroyer programme will feature four MTU 
diesel gensets from Power Systems, together 
with our Trent-derived MT30 gas turbines.
Concentration
Concentration means deciding where to 
invest for future growth and where not.  
We have two technology platforms: gas 
turbines and reciprocating engines. Within 
gas turbines, we have a strong Civil aerospace 
business, with over £60 billion in orders.  
We will continue to invest here, including in 
the next generation of narrow-body aircraft 
engines. We will also look for opportunities 
to expand in reciprocating engines.
In 2013, we acquired Hyper-Therm HTC,  
a specialist ceramics company, to increase  
our capabilities in ceramic matrix materials 
that will, in the future, play a critical part in 
improving the performance of gas turbine 
engines. We also acquired a Norwegian 
company, SmartMotor AS, a leader in the 
permanent magnet technology employed  
in our Marine business. We integrated PKMJ 
Technical Services, a US-based nuclear 
engineering services business with expertise 
in extending the life of nuclear plants.
Areas where we have decided not to grow 
include the sale of our 50 per cent holding  
in the RTM322 helicopter engine programme 
to Turbomeca, a Safran company.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 6 Strategic report Cost
The highly regulated nature of the aerospace 
industry means that it will take both time 
and tenacity to drive cost out of the 
business, and we are still not where we need 
to be. However there are a number of areas 
where progress is being made. We reduced 
indirect headcount by 11 per cent, with 
further savings identified for 2014. Unit cost 
fell in Marine, Energy and Power Systems, 
although this was more than offset by an 
increase in Civil, where capacity growth has 
preceded volume growth and the cost per 
unit has predictably risen. We are building 
newer, more efficient facilities and capacity 
that will support a doubling of production  
of Trent engines. We are moving production 
away from high cost countries, and we are 
consolidating our supply chain. These 
actions will deliver benefits over time. 
We have prioritised investment that 
improves operational performance, adds  
to our technical capability and reduces cost. 
This includes a shop floor IT modernisation 
programme that will increase operational 
efficiency and an Integrated Production 
Systems programme that will improve 
delivery to customers while reducing cost. 
Cash
The Group delivered a cash inflow of 
£359 million (£312 million excluding 
Tognum), after payments to shareholders, 
prior to acquisitions, disposals and foreign 
exchange. Inventory has been an area of 
significant focus. While substantially 
improving our on-time delivery to customers 
and preparing for the ramp-up in volumes, 
we have improved inventory turns from  
3 times to 3.4 times, excluding Tognum.  
This is one of the largest one-year 
improvements in our stock turns.
We continue to invest significantly to deliver 
our order book. In 2013, capital expenditure 
was £687 million (£590 million excluding 
Tognum and £491 million in 2012). This 
included two new aero-engine test facilities: 
one at the NASA Stennis Space Center in 
Mississippi, US, and the other at Dahlewitz, 
Germany. We have extended our global 
Marine services network with a new facility 
in Guangzhou, China. An advanced aerofoil 
machining facility at Crosspointe in Virginia, 
US, will begin production in 2014. In the UK, 
production has started at our new state-of-
the-art fan disc factory in Washington, Tyne 
and Wear and we are also close to completing 
a new turbine blade factory in Rotherham.
In January 2013, we appointed Lord Gold to 
lead a review of our process and procedures 
regarding compliance and business ethics. 
This followed our report to the Serious Fraud 
Office (SFO) of concerns about bribery and 
corruption involving intermediaries in 
overseas markets. In December, the SFO 
confirmed that it had begun a formal 
investigation into these matters. We have 
co-operated fully with the regulatory 
authorities and will continue to do so. 
During the year, we published a new Global 
Code of Conduct. Under a programme 
implemented in 2013, all employees are 
asked to certify they have: received a copy  
of the Global Code; read and understood it; 
will comply with it; and have received a 
management briefing. I have made it 
explicit that we will not tolerate improper 
business conduct of any sort. We have 
updated and re-launched our confidential 
reporting line for employees, now known  
as the Ethics Line, available 24 hours a day,  
to make sure that we can hear about and 
address any matters of concern.
It is important that everyone at Rolls-Royce 
recognises that they are an ambassador for 
the Group. We have set out three common 
behaviours that will make sure we maintain 
high ethical standards, build trust with our 
customers and each other and help secure 
the long-term success of our business:
win right – securing business fair  
and square; 
focus with firm resolve – decide what  
needs to be done, then focus relentlessly  
on delivery – refusing to be distracted;  and 
communicate – simply, consistently  
and often.
Every aspect of the Group’s performance 
results from the endeavours of the 55,000 
men and women who share a vision of 
delivering ‘better power for a changing 
world’. It is their ingenuity and commitment 
alongside our continued investment in 
technology, that allows us to seize the 
opportunities that our changing world 
presents and to face the future with 
confidence.
John Rishton
Chief Executive
12 February 2014
John Rishton
Chief Executive
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 7
Strategic report Financial statements Directors’ report Other information
