 This is my first Chairman’s review. Before I 
joined Rolls-Royce I sensed that it would be an 
extraordinary privilege to serve such a great 
company with such a rich history. So it has 
proved to be. In the past nine months I have 
travelled widely and met a broad cross-
section of colleagues, customers, suppliers 
and investors. All have been free with their 
time and open with their perspectives. 
I have two dominant initial impressions.  
The first is of the pride that people across  
the world have in the activities and 
achievements of the Group. We have a team 
that really does aspire to be ‘trusted to 
deliver excellence’ in everything it does, yet is 
under no illusions about what this will take. 
There is pride but no sense of complacency.
The second impression is of opportunity. 
Some of our business segments face strong 
headwinds and there will be some inevitable 
volatility. But, overall, Rolls-Royce competes in 
markets characterised by long-term demand 
growth and the opportunity to add value. 
This is as true of the services we provide as  
it is of our products. These opportunities are 
increasingly global in nature. Rolls-Royce has 
a great British history but its future has to 
be as a great global company.
In 2013, Rolls-Royce delivered another year  
of growth in revenues, profits and order book. 
This performance was achieved against a 
background of significant global economic 
and political uncertainty. The 13 per cent of 
increase in the payment to shareholders to 
22.0 pence reflects the confidence that the 
Board has in the fundamentals of the 
business as well as in its future prospects.
The increase in the payment to shareholders 
also recognises the importance that many of 
our investors place on annual cash returns. 
Nevertheless a key characteristic of  
Rolls-Royce is that it is a long-term business 
with technologies that take years to develop. 
This creates the necessity of a long-term 
view and for long-term investment, together 
with a commensurate attitude and mindset 
for risk.
Our strategy must be directed towards 
creating a sustainable business. For  
Rolls-Royce that means driving profitable 
growth whilst achieving a positive economic, 
social and environmental impact. We will 
deliver better power to our customers, use 
innovation to secure a better future, and 
build on today’s achievements to develop  
a better business, ready to meet the 
challenges ahead.
Research and development, and innovation 
more broadly, are crucial. They will become 
more so as we strive to improve the quality 
and performance of our power systems and 
services. The Trent XWB, for example, has 
proved to be the most efficient large civil 
aero engine in the world. Design and 
development of that engine started in 2006. 
In our Marine business, innovation and the 
development of liquefied natural gas (LNG) 
power systems has led to the possibility  
of a 40 per cent reduction in a ship’s CO 2 
emissions and the virtual elimination of 
sulphur and oxides of nitrogen emissions 
compared with conventional, diesel-powered 
craft. This presents a clear environmental 
and commercial opportunity. These 
innovations have also taken years to develop.
We are committed to both the short-term 
performance and to the long-term health  
of the Group. It is a matter of ‘both-and’,  
not ‘either-or’. In my experience the most 
successful, most enduring organisations 
invest equivalent resource and imagination 
in the long-term health of their business  
as they do in their short to medium-term 
performance.
CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW
 
In 2013, Rolls-Royce 
delivered another year  
of growth in underlying 
revenues, underlying 
profits and orders. 
The Board is proposing  
an increase in the final 
payment to shareholders  
of 13.4p bringing the full  
year payment to 22.0p.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 4 Strategic report Ian Davis
Chairman
Dwelling on performance, I am totally 
supportive of John Rishton and the 
management team’s operational focus on 
the 4 Cs – customer, concentration, cost and 
cash. John describes the progress, and the 
continuing opportunities, of these 4 Cs in 
this report. I am particularly pleased at the 
progress in improving customer service and 
delivery reliability. Engineering and 
technology companies can have an inbuilt 
tendency to focus on product rather than  
on customer. Yet it is our customers who pay 
our bills and finance our investments. It is  
of the highest strategic and commercial 
importance that we deliver on our product 
and service commitments to our customers. 
Over and above the continuing need for 
investment, I would like to comment on  
a couple of themes relating to long-term 
health: diversity and good governance. 
I have remarked already on the need for 
Rolls-Royce to establish itself as an even 
more global Group. This will require us to 
become more diverse in our workforce and 
in our people development. To achieve our 
aspirations we have to attract, retain and 
develop the best talent everywhere we 
operate – commercial as much as 
engineering, female as much as male. 
We are making real progress. Our global 
apprenticeship programme enjoys world-
wide renown. Our record graduate intake  
in 2013 includes 32 nationalities from 97 
universities around the world. Additionally 
we continue to broaden internationally our 
network of University Technology Centres 
which are so important to our future. But 
more needs to be done. 
We can and need to do more to attract and, 
particularly, retain exceptional women.  
The engineering sector has not always been 
a favoured destination for well-qualified 
women and there may be cultural and 
historical reasons for this. For a Group  
like Rolls-Royce, this should be as much  
an opportunity as a problem. Purposeful 
diversity is an important part of our  
long-term planning.
Fundamental to a healthy company are 
strong ethical standards and behaviours, 
supported by good governance. As John 
Rishton has repeatedly made clear, the  
Group will not tolerate improper conduct. 
We are striving to ensure that every single 
Rolls-Royce employee knows what is 
expected of them and understands the 
standards to be met. The Board and 
management are united in this endeavour. 
In particular, I will focus on ensuring that  
we have the appropriate governance 
arrangements and structures in place  
to reinforce the required conduct and 
behaviours, wherever we operate.
Over recent years, the Board and 
management have been greatly assisted  
by the wise counsel of our International 
Advisory Board (IAB) whose membership  
is described on page 38. The IAB’s primary 
role is to provide context on political and 
economic developments around the world 
and to alert the Group to possible long-term 
opportunities, threats and risks. They are 
also available to provide counsel and support 
in specific areas of expertise. I am grateful  
to the IAB members for their contributions. 
I am also indebted to my fellow Board 
directors for their hard work and remarkable 
commitment to our Group as well as for 
their patience and good humour in dealing 
with the new Chairman. The Board has been 
augmented in January 2014 by Lee Hsien 
Yang and Warren East, both of whom bring  
a wealth of experience in global technology 
oriented industries. Further details of their 
careers are included on pages 36 and 37. I am 
delighted that they have joined the Group.
In the Queen’s Birthday Honours, Michel 
Dubarry, Rolls-Royce International President 
– France, Head of Europe and Northern 
Africa, was awarded an OBE. In the New 
Year’s Honours, Hamid Mughal, Director  
of Manufacturing, received an OBE and my 
fellow Board member, Warren East, a CBE. 
Their recognition is well deserved and I 
congratulate each of them. 
I would also like, in closing, to acknowledge 
Sir Simon Robertson for his inspirational 
chairmanship and leadership of the Board.  
I am sure that, over time, I will forgive him 
for being such a hard act to follow. 
I feel honoured to have the opportunity to 
serve as Chairman of Rolls-Royce. We have, 
and will have, challenges. However, I would 
be disappointed if this review does not 
convey my deep sense of opportunity to 
improve both short-term performance and 
to build the long-term health of the Group. 
2013 was a good year for Rolls-Royce and I 
would like to thank my colleagues for their 
hard work and efforts in making this happen.
Ian Davis
Chairman
12 February 2014 
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 5
Strategic report Financial statements Directors’ report Other information
