 14 Annual Report 2014 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc
Strategic Report
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Rolls-Royce is in business 
to deliver better power 
for a changing world.  
The integrated power 
systems that we develop, 
build and maintain, 
address the increasing 
global demand for 
transport and energy.
JOHN RISHTON 
Chief Executive
 We continually 
seek to reduce cost to remain 
competitive and to generate 
the funds we need to invest 
in future growth.” 15
Strategic Report
As society becomes more integrated, 
population expands and the world becomes 
more affluent, the requirement for the  
type of advanced engineering solutions  
we provide will grow. These are long-term 
trends that require long-term investment 
and present us with the opportunity for 
long-term profitable growth. 
The path to growth will not always be 
smooth. For Rolls-Royce, 2014 has proved  
a challenging year for reasons that I will 
explain in some detail. During 2014, Group 
underlying revenue was 6% lower than in 
2013 and underlying profit before tax 
declined by 8%. However, the Group order 
book grew to a new record of £73.7 billion, 
demonstrating the confidence our 
customers continue to place in our 
technology and the growth that lies ahead.  
It is encouraging that the Defence aerospace 
order book increased for the first time since 
2010, with continued growth in the order 
books of Civil aerospace and Power Systems.
In this review I will explain why we believe 
our business model is robust, I will describe 
the transformation we are driving through 
the Group and the reasons for our 
confidence in the future. I will also outline 
the challenges we face and the decisive 
action we are taking to accelerate a return 
to our long-term trend of profitable growth.
So let me start with our business model.  
We invest in technology in order to meet  
our customers’ current and future needs. 
Through constant innovation we create the 
opportunity to grow sales and expand our 
market share. We earn revenue both from 
the sale of original equipment and from 
servicing the power systems we produce. 
We continually seek to reduce cost to remain 
competitive and to generate the funds we 
need to invest in future growth.
We have evolved and simplified our strategy 
to focus on the core areas of: customer, 
innovation and profitable growth. 
Customer: we put customers at the heart of 
the organisation. We understand their needs 
and then focus relentlessly on delivery.
Innovation: is at the core of Rolls-Royce  
and drives a culture of continuous 
improvement. Delivering relevant 
innovation is critical to meeting our 
customers’ current and future needs.
Profitable growth : by focusing on our 
customers and presenting them with a 
competitive portfolio of innovative products 
and services, we create the opportunity  
for long-term profitable growth.
This sharper focus enables us to drive our 
business model harder and will, over time, 
deliver improving financial returns.
From its earliest days Rolls-Royce has 
addressed a range of markets where 
demand exists for advanced engineering 
solutions. Our 1906 articles of association 
describe the business as producing 
technology for use in the air, on land and at 
sea. More than a century later this approach 
remains relevant and we run our business 
through the two Divisions of Aerospace and 
Land & Sea that you will see described in the 
pages of this Annual Report. 
There is an industrial, commercial and 
strategic logic that ties these two Divisions 
together and generates value for the Group. 
Industrially, our knowledge of advanced 
engineering applies across both our 
Divisions. World-class technology is required 
by all of our customers and as the power 
systems we produce become more 
sophisticated, a deep understanding  
of materials science, electronics, data 
management and aftermarket services  
are increasingly important in every part  
of the Group.
BETTER POWER
Our Land & Sea Division is well positioned 
to meet the requirements for cleaner 
power that will be driven by future growth 
in world trade.
£74bn Our order book 
increased in 2014 to a record level
Commercially, we and our competitors 
recognise the requirement of a broad 
portfolio and exposure to differing business 
and investment cycles. It is not a coincidence 
that there is no pure aerospace power 
system company in the world.
The scale represented by our two Divisions  
is important in maintaining a strong 
balance sheet and protecting our 
investment grade rating. Scale has also 
enabled us to maintain a global R&D 
network comprising 31 University 
Technology Centres and seven Advanced 
Manufacturing Research Centres. These 
facilities envisage, develop and test 
emerging technologies that have 
applications across our portfolio. Our 
breadth increases market access and 
generates opportunity. For example, our 
Nuclear business is relatively small but 
extends our influence and gives us access  
to the highest levels of government 
internationally.  16 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014
Strategic Report
Strategically, our two Divisions address 
markets where long-term growth is  
assured and where increasingly 
sophisticated engineering solutions will  
be required. We believe both aerospace  
and land & sea markets offer attractive 
returns and play to our strengths. 
The future growth of air travel is widely 
understood and reflected in our £63 billion 
Civil aerospace order book. To give this some 
perspective, in the past decade we have 
delivered 1,600 Trent engines. In the decade 
ahead we expect to deliver 4,000. All of the 
engines in this expanding fleet will produce 
service revenues that will extend for 
decades to come. Our Land & Sea Division  
is well positioned to meet the requirements 
for cleaner power that will be driven by 
future growth in world trade (90% of  
which is carried by sea), urbanisation, 
population growth and tighter 
environmental regulations.
Across the Group, we invest in technology 
that is continually setting new standards  
in power efficiency and environmental 
performance. The complexity of what we  
do creates barriers to entry and generates 
new market opportunities. Put simply, there 
will be significant long-term growth in 
demand for the complex integrated power 
systems we deliver, and there are not many 
companies with the ability to do what we 
can do.
Despite these fundamental strengths,  
in 2014 our short-term performance has 
been negatively affected by a number of 
factors. In Aerospace our Defence revenues 
fell by 20%, reflecting reduced government 
defence spending in our main markets of 
North America and Europe. In Land & Sea, 
slowing growth in a number of our major 
markets including Continental Europe, 
South America and China has caused some 
customers to delay or cancel orders. At the 
same time, sharp declines in the price of oil 
and other commodities have led customers  
to reduce or defer expenditure, especially  
in the oil & gas, mining and construction 
industries.
In response to these adverse conditions,  
we have accelerated progress on the 4Cs  
of Customer, Concentration, Cost and Cash 
– with a particular emphasis on cost. This 
decisive action is driving a transformation 
of the business that will, in time, make us  
a stronger Group and hasten our return  
to profitable growth. 
On Customer: we continue to make good 
progress improving quality, delivery, 
reliability and responsiveness; the 
characteristics our customers tell us they 
value most. The results can be seen across  
a wide range of programmes. At Group level 
there has been a further improvement in 
delivery times – particularly for spare parts. 
In Aerospace, the Trent 1000 that powers  
the Boeing 787 Dreamliner has achieved  
an industry-leading 99.9% engine dispatch 
reliability after completing over 500,000 
flying hours in service. Since launch, we  
have doubled the time on wing for both  
our Trent 700 and Trent 800 fleets. In our 
Civil Small and Medium Engines business, 
we achieved a 57 percentage points 
improvement in restoring operational 
availability for business jets in the past year.
Recognising the progress we have made, 
Airbus has presented us with its Supply 
Chain and Quality Improvement Award.  
The US Government’s Defense Logistics 
Agency recognised Rolls-Royce as a ‘first  
tier supplier’ from among 153 companies 
and we were awarded joint first place by 
Aviation International News for the quality 
of our business aircraft support.
In Land & Sea, our delivery on time to 
Marine customers has improved by  
33 percentage points since 2012. Marine 
also signed its first commercial long-term 
service agreement. As the power systems we 
deliver in Land & Sea become more complex, 
we see further opportunities to expand our 
aftermarket activities, building on the data 
and service capabilities we have developed 
in Aerospace. In Power Systems, we opened 
an additional logistics centre in Singapore, 
enabling a 5% improvement in the 
availability of spare parts and setting  
a new standard for customer service. 
Improving performance in this way 
strengthens the relationship we have with 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CONTINUED
INNOVATION
We invest in technology in order to meet 
our customers’ current and future needs. 
Through constant innovation we create  
the opportunity to grow sales and expand 
our market share. 
MORE INFORMATION  
ON PAGES 20 TO 21
 We continue  
to make good progress 
improving quality, 
delivery, reliability  
and responsiveness.” 17
Strategic Report
OUR FIVE PRIORITIES 
FOR THE GROUP
DURING 2014 WE OUTLINED THE PRIORITIES 
FOR THE BUSINESS GOING FORWARD.
FIX THE BASICS (THE 4Cs)
This is about improving the bedrock of the 
organisation: focusing on our customers  
and their needs; concentrating on what we 
are good at; attacking cost across the Group 
and managing our cash position effectively.
CULTURE
We want a business-orientated, innovative 
and cost-conscious culture, one that 
understands our customers and delivers on 
their behalf. We must have a culture where 
ethical behaviour is fully embedded, so that 
we don’t just win but win right.
CIVIL WIDEBODY
We are building on success. In the last decade 
we delivered 1,600 Trents and in the next we 
will deliver 4,000. We power over 50% of new 
widebody aircraft. Our next generation 
engines, Advance and UltraFan™, will help 
maintain our leading market position.
CIVIL NARROWBODY
Narrowbodies represent 70% of the civil 
aircraft market by volume and 50% by value. 
We have the requisite skills and technology  
to return to this market and are determined 
to do so when the opportunity arises.  
This is important in the longer term,  
not just because of the scale this market 
segment offers but also because of the 
chance it presents to develop greater 
customer intimacy.
MEDIUM-SPEED RECIPROCATING ENGINES
Medium-speed reciprocating engines power 
the vast majority of the marine vessels that 
we design and equip. We have world-class 
technology, but it is characteristic of this 
industry that the engine supplier is 
particularly well placed to pull through  
other technologies, so our lack of scale  
in medium-speed engines confers a 
disadvantage we need to address.
our customers, and generates opportunities 
for us to secure additional business. 
Concentration: means deciding where  
we want to invest and where not to.
In August, we were pleased to acquire 
Daimler’s 50% shareholding in Rolls-Royce 
Power Systems for £1.94 billion. Power 
Systems adds scale and capability to our 
reciprocating engines portfolio. It has 
outstanding technology, operates in 
long-term growth markets and has  
proved a valuable addition to our  
Land & Sea Division.
We also divested a significant business in 
December, completing the sale of our Energy 
gas turbines and compressor business to 
Siemens. This is a business that has excellent 
technology and a talented workforce, but it 
lacks the scale required to prosper as part of 
Rolls-Royce. Siemens has a far bigger power 
generation business and is a more suitable 
owner. The sale generated proceeds of 
around £1 billion. We are returning this to 
shareholders by way of a share buyback that 
started in December 2014.
Turning to Cost: we have taken action to 
improve cost performance in every part of 
the business and in every cost category. We 
have made good progress in some areas and 
as a result, Group gross margins improved 
by 1.7 percentage points in 2014. In Defence, 
we have improved margins despite declining 
revenue. In Land & Sea, we closed five plants 
and are rationalising other parts of the 
business. For example, we are consolidating 
production of steering gear in Norway and 
waterjets into Finland. We are driving down 
cost by improving quality, simplifying 
logistics, reducing waste, and adopting 
processes that allow us to make things 
better and faster. 
In November, we announced a restructuring 
programme in our Aerospace Division and 
central functions, which is expected to 
reduce headcount by 2,600. By the end of 
2014, 545 people had left the business, with 
the majority of the reductions expected in 
2015. This programme is expected to result 
in restructuring charges of around  
£120 million, of which £56 million was 
recognised in our 2014 results.  
We anticipate annualised cost benefits of 
around £80 million from 2016 onwards, 
with £50 million in benefits expected in 
2015. Our total Aerospace 2014 
restructuring activities cost £164 million  
(of which £139 million was underlying).
However, in a complex and highly-regulated 
business, we recognise that it will take  
some time for the full benefit of our cost 
programmes to feed through. There are  
also a number of headwinds in our Civil 
aerospace business associated with our 
future growth. For example, we have 
invested in the capacity required to deliver 
our record order book, but delay in a number 
of our customers’ major programmes has 
meant some of this new capacity has come 
on stream before it is needed, leaving us 
with under-utilised production facilities.  
We have also constructed a number of new 
world-class facilities to replace older, less 
productive plants. For a period of transition 
we are carrying the cost of both the old  
and new facilities.
Group restructuring costs in 2014 were 
£188 million, of which £149 million was 
underlying. Over the past two years, the 
Group has reduced indirect headcount  
by 18%. We expect Group underlying 
restructuring costs to be between £90  
and £100 million in 2015.
Cost performance will continue to be a 
major focus, and as we rationalise and 
transform the Group, we have targeted a 
20% reduction in our footprint and a 
doubling of our lower-cost country sourcing 
by 2020. We are now accelerating progress 
towards these targets. 
Cash: we continue to focus on improving 
our free cash flow, particularly in the face  
of near-term headwinds. Our programmes 
to reduce product and aftermarket costs, 
lower our headcount and to reduce our 
footprint all require upfront investment  
but will deliver cost and cash benefits in  
the medium term. As revenue increases,  
we expect to reduce our capital expenditure 
and R&D as a percentage of sales. The 
customer progress highlighted earlier is 
improving our operational performance.  Combined with increasing volumes, this will 
enable us to reduce our inventory buffers. 
While a great deal of attention has been 
focused, quite rightly, on the financial 
performance of the Group, it is important  
to recognise significant achievements in 
2014 that will support the Group’s future 
profitable growth.
1,500 Trent XWB 
engines are on order. The first 
engines were delivered to  
Qatar Airways in 2014
In Aerospace in December, we were 
delighted to celebrate the first delivery of the 
Trent XWB, powering the new Airbus A350 
XWB for launch customer Qatar Airways. 
The Trent XWB is the most fuel efficient 
large aero engine operating in the world 
today. I would like to congratulate everyone 
at Rolls-Royce who has worked so hard  
over many years to support the successful 
delivery of this exceptional aircraft, for 
which Rolls-Royce is the sole engine provider.
At the Farnborough International Airshow  
in July, we announced the seventh member 
of the Trent engine family, the Trent 7000, 
that will power the new Airbus A330neo. 
This new engine will incorporate technology 
from our most recent Trents and will deliver 
a 10% improvement in specific fuel 
consumption and halve the noise energy 
output compared to the current engine on 
the A330. Rolls-Royce will be the exclusive 
engine supplier on the A330neo, due to 
enter service in 2017.
We have continued to bring new world-class 
facilities on stream in 2014. These include 
the opening of our new advanced disc 
manufacturing facility at Washington in  
the UK and the first production aerofoil 
from our new Advanced Aerofoil 
Manufacturing Facility at Crosspointe, 
Virginia in the US. 2014 saw the 
inauguration of our new large engine test 
bed in Dahlewitz, Germany and the opening 
of a new marine customer training centre 
outside Rio de Janeiro in Brazil.
We marked a major milestone in the 
development of carbon titanium (CTi) fan 
blades with the launch of a test flight 
programme on board a Boeing 747 flying 
test bed. CTi technology delivers lighter fan 
blades that will be incorporated into future 
aero engines. Combined with a composite 
fan casing, it forms a system that can reduce 
weight by up to 1,500lb per aircraft, the 
equivalent of seven passengers.
In Land & Sea we have also continued to 
strengthen our portfolio, bringing new 
technology to market across the Division.  
In September, we unveiled the first of a  
new family of medium-speed reciprocating 
engines for use on land and at sea. The  
new Bergen B33:45 offers a 20% increase  
in power per cylinder, while reducing fuel 
consumption, emissions and operating 
costs. It is our first new product to combine 
the engineering strengths of our traditional 
Bergen engines operation and our new 
Power Systems business. Because of its 
greater power range, the new engine 
increases our addressable market in 
medium-speed engines by 20%. 
In the naval market two important new 
ships powered by our MT30 gas turbines 
were officially named: the multi-mission 
destroyer USS Zumwalt and the Royal Navy 
aircraft carrier Queen Elizabeth.
In the rail sector, Power Systems has 
developed an MTU hybrid PowerPack that 
generates additional power through the 
braking control system. This technology 
offers a fuel saving of up to 25% with a 
proportional reduction in emissions. 
For off-highway vehicles, MTU’s latest  
Series 4000 engine has improved fuel 
consumption by 5%. For a typical application 
this can represent a saving of up to 100,000 
litres of fuel and reduction of 350 tonnes of 
CO
2 emissions each year. 
TECHNOLOGY
We have continued to invest in our  
Land & Sea Division, bringing new 
technology to market across the portfolio. 
In September, we unveiled the first of a 
new family of medium-speed reciprocating 
engines for power on land and at sea.  
The new Bergen B33:45 offers a 20% 
increase in power per cylinder, while 
reducing fuel consumption, emissions  
and operating costs. 
MORE INFORMATION 
ON PAGE 38
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 18
Strategic Report
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CONTINUED MTU’s latest Series 4000 
engine has improved fuel 
consumption by
5%
In our Nuclear business, we were 
encouraged that, in October, the European 
Commission approved the construction  
of the first new commercial nuclear power 
station to be built for a generation in  
the UK, at Hinkley Point in Somerset. The 
Commission concluded that new nuclear 
power is vital for Britain’s energy security 
and will be key to reducing carbon emissions 
from the UK’s electricity industry. Hinkley 
Point C is the first of at least 11 new reactors 
planned for the UK, for which Rolls-Royce  
is well positioned to supply components, 
systems and engineering services.
31 University Technology 
Centres. This research network 
extends relationships we have 
with world-leading universities
As the Chairman said, we continued to 
strengthen the governance of the Group.  
We expect the highest standards of 
behaviour from our employees and we  
have been explicit that we will not tolerate 
business misconduct of any sort. The 
Serious Fraud Office investigation into 
concerns about bribery and corruption 
involving intermediaries in overseas 
markets continues and we are cooperating 
fully with the investigating authorities.  
Lord Gold is heading a review of our process 
and procedures regarding compliance and 
business ethics. 
This year our Global Code of Conduct has 
been ranked by the Red Flag Group as third 
among those within the FTSE 100 companies 
that were assessed. Following the roll-out  
of our Global Code, dilemma-based ethics 
training has been deployed to all  
our employees to ensure continuing 
attention on this important topic. Training 
in ethics and compliance will continue in 
2015. All employees will be required to 
certify annually that they have completed 
their training. We will be setting similar 
standards for our supply chain through the 
publication of our Supplier Code of Conduct. 
Responding to the difficult circumstances  
of 2014 has required fortitude and resilience 
from the talented men and women who 
work for Rolls-Royce. I would like to thank 
them for their hard work and for the 
enthusiasm I encounter wherever in the 
Company I travel. I am grateful to our 
suppliers and partners who make such an 
important contribution to Rolls-Royce and 
share our commitment to continuous 
improvement. I would like to thank our 
customers who continue to place their faith 
in our technology. Meeting their current  
and future needs is our highest priority.
This year we held our inaugural Trusted  
to Deliver Excellence Awards to recognise 
Rolls-Royce teams who have achieved 
outstanding results for their customers.  
The imagination, passion and ability  
to execute demonstrated by all the finalists 
is inspiring. You can read more about these 
awards on pages 42 to 43.
Returning our Group to profitable growth 
will demand firm resolve and commitment 
and will take some time. However, as I have 
described in this review, the business 
fundamentals of Rolls-Royce remain sound, 
we have the right strategy and we are clear 
about the action that is required. Everything 
I know about this great Company makes  
me confident that the team will rise to  
the challenge.
JOHN RISHTON
Chief Executive
12 February 2015
 Strategically,  
our two Divisions  
address markets  
where long-term growth  
is assured and where 
increasingly sophisticated 
engineering solutions  
will be required.”
19
Strategic Report
