 CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW
After a decade of strong 
performance and 
growth, 2014 was a year 
of mixed fortunes for 
our Company. 
IAN DAVIS
Chairman
 We are totally 
focused on returning the 
Company to its long-term 
trajectory of profitable 
growth and of superior 
shareholder returns.”
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc
Strategic Report
10 Annual Report 2014  The 
fundamentals 
of the business 
remain strong.”
There have been some real pluses and 
achievements alongside a number of 
challenges that held back the Company’s 
financial performance.
During the course of the year, our order  
book reached its highest ever level. We also 
celebrated the delivery of the first Airbus  
A350 XWB to our launch customer Qatar 
Airways, powered by Rolls-Royce Trent XWB 
engines. Our record of customer service 
continues to improve, in Civil aerospace  
for example, we have maintained a record  
of 100% on-time delivery to Airbus for the 
past two years. In the same period our 
Marine business improved original 
equipment on-time delivery by 11%, while 
spares delivery improved across the Group. 
We still have more to do here and we are 
totally committed to enhancing customer 
satisfaction with our products and services. 
However, progress is encouraging and  
bodes well for the future. Happy customers 
are a precondition for a successful,  
long-term business. 
Set against these achievements, 2014 was 
the first year in a decade in which revenue 
and underlying profits, on a like-for-like 
basis, did not grow. The Defence business 
was hit hard by constraints in government 
expenditure. In our Land & Sea Division,  
we faced tough market conditions, 
characterised by pricing pressure and 
deferred or cancelled orders by customers, 
particularly in the oil & gas, construction 
and mining industries.
In addition to some difficult trading 
conditions, we did not make as much 
progress as planned on improving our cost 
and cash performance. We fully recognise 
this is a priority if we are to provide 
attractive returns to shareholders as well  
as to fund the investment requirements 
that will underpin long-term growth.  
Ours is a business that requires significant 
up-front cash investment to generate 
long-term cash flow.
SHAREHOLDER DISTRIBUTIONS
Despite the short-term challenges, the 
fundamentals of the business remain 
strong. Rolls-Royce is a growth company, 
well positioned in long-term growth 
markets that offer the prospect of  
attractive returns. 
We know that shareholders do not invest  
in growth alone, they invest for growth 
that’s profitable. Our payment to 
shareholders of 23.1p reflects the confidence 
the Board has in the Company’s profitability 
and cash generation prospects. At the same 
time we are committed to retaining a strong 
balance sheet. Civil aerospace in particular, 
although an attractive long-term business, 
can still be prone to external market shocks. 
Our customers, who depend on our service 
support for periods of up to 25 years,  
both expect and demand a financially 
resilient supplier. 
STRATEGY
Rolls-Royce is intrinsically a long-term 
business and has to be directed and 
managed as such. In Civil aerospace  
for example, products take many years  
to develop, test and bring to market, and  
are quite rightly subject to strict regulatory 
process. Revenue from the sale of original 
equipment and subsequent aftermarket 
services generate cash flows for decades.
The Board reviewed the Group’s product 
portfolio and corporate structure in  
light of these financial and investment 
characteristics. This review led to the 
decision to divest our Energy business  
and we completed its sale to Siemens  
in December. At the same time we 
strengthened our position in the core 
division of Land & Sea by completing the 
acquisition of the shares held by Daimler  
in Power Systems. We are focused on the 
twin pillars of Aerospace and Land & Sea 
because of their technology and service 
model synergies and their combined ability 
to create shared competitive advantage.
Our strong belief is that shareholders,  
as well as customers and employees, will  
be best served if the Company continues to 
focus on expanding its position in the highly 
attractive global markets for power and 
propulsion. We have long-established and 
PAYMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS
23.1p (2013: 22.0p)
UNDERLYING EPS
65.3p (2013: 65.6p)
ORDER BOOK
£74bn (2013: £72bn)
RETURN ON SALES
11.5% (2013: 11.8%)
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
MORE FINANCIAL INFORMATION  
ON PAGES 26 TO 31
11
Strategic Report competitive technology platforms, as well  
as customer relationships, in gas turbines, 
reciprocating engines, nuclear services and 
controls. We see substantial long-term value 
creation and growth potential from these 
products, not least from aftermarket 
services where Rolls-Royce has been a 
pioneer. There will be cyclicality and 
volatility – external and internal risks are  
not insignificant – however, our long-term 
aspiration is to build on our position  
as a leading global provider of complex 
integrated power systems for use in the  
air, on land and at sea.
INNOVATION
Innovation has been, and is, critical to  
the long-term success of Rolls-Royce.  
We cannot depend on size and scale alone 
for competitive advantage. We invest more 
than £1 billion a year in research and 
development (R&D) to ensure that we 
conceive, design and deliver world-class 
technology that meets our customers’ 
current and future requirements.
Innovation is not just about R&D numbers 
and not just about product technology.  
An increasing focus, for example, is on data 
analytics and on control systems to reflect 
our customers’ increasing requirements for 
integrated solutions. Rolls-Royce has long 
been an innovator in services and we will  
be looking to build on this. I am especially 
proud of our collaborative approach to 
innovation, particularly our work with 
leading universities across the world on 
designated topics and technologies. We are 
quite clear that we must improve our capital 
efficiency, our cost competitiveness and our 
cash generation. However this will not be at 
the expense of our strategic commitment to 
innovation and development. These will be 
the drivers of long-term profitable growth 
and value creation.
TALENT AND CAPABILITIES
I would like to touch on some of the key 
enablers that will be required to deliver  
our strategy and our operational plans. In 
particular, we need to attract, develop and 
retain outstanding talent everywhere we 
operate, commercial and functional talent 
as much as engineering talent. In the past 
year we recruited 354 graduates from 112 
universities in 11 countries and we recruited 
357 apprentices across the world. I am 
pleased that 26% of our graduate recruits 
and 10% of our UK apprentices are female 
– not good enough but progress. Our 
community programmes remain directed 
towards encouraging young people, 
particularly females, to choose science, 
technology, engineering and maths (STEM) 
subjects. We are in the process of reviewing 
our training and leadership development 
programmes, particularly for middle 
managers. We are also exploring ways of 
accelerating and broadening career paths 
for our highest potential talent across the 
world and for further increasing diversity  
as an important element of changing and 
strengthening our culture.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board recognises that strong 
governance is a hallmark of excellent 
companies. We remain committed to  
being a leader in ethical behaviour and in 
environmental and social responsibility. We 
are updating and upgrading our governance 
structures and controls, with a particular 
focus on risk and compliance procedures. 
The concerns about bribery and corruption 
involving intermediaries in overseas 
markets, and the subsequent SFO enquiry, 
together with wider speculation, have been 
a body blow to the Company and we have 
responded accordingly. We have expanded 
significantly our compliance team, invested 
heavily in training and awareness building 
across the Group and strengthened our 
internal controls. Our staff have received a 
new Global Code of Conduct, together with 
mandatory training. We have established or 
expanded our own offices in many 
international markets and reduced 
dramatically the number of external 
intermediaries. Further details are contained 
in the Safety and Ethics Committee Report 
on page 66. We are grateful to Lord Gold 
who continues to advise us on compliance 
and ethics best practice.
BOARD APPOINTMENTS AND CHANGES
Ruth Cairnie, formerly an executive vice 
president with Royal Dutch Shell, joined  
the Board in September. In addition,  
Pamela Coles, previously at Centrica, has 
joined Rolls-Royce as Company Secretary.  
We are lucky to have both of them.
 We are 
committed to being a 
leader in environmental 
and social responsibility 
and to being regarded as 
a good corporate citizen.”
PEOPLE AND TALENT
We are exploring ways of accelerating  
and broadening career paths for our 
highest potential talent across the world 
and for further increasing diversity as an 
important element of changing and 
strengthening our culture.
MORE INFORMATION  
ON PAGES 42 TO 43
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 12
Strategic Report
CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW
CONTINUED I was also very pleased to welcome David 
Smith to the Board. David was appointed 
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in November, 
replacing Mark Morris who left the 
Company. David joined Rolls-Royce at  
the beginning of 2014 as the CFO of the 
Aerospace Division. Prior to that, he had 
extensive international experience in 
engineering and technology companies.  
A particular focus for David will be to 
strengthen further our financial controls 
and management information systems  
as well as improving our communications 
with the investment community. 
I would like to thank Mark Morris for his 
years of service and contributions to the 
Company and to the Board. I would also  
like to thank Iain Conn who stood down 
from the Board after nine years of dedicated 
and exemplary service. He was succeeded as 
Senior Independent Director by Lewis Booth.
After a successful career spanning 17 years 
with Rolls-Royce, James Guyette will step 
down from the Board at the conclusion of 
the 2015 Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
and retire from his role as President and 
Chief Executive Officer of Rolls-Royce North 
America on 31 May 2015. James has made a 
tremendous contribution to the Company 
over many years. He has helped guide the 
business through a period of significant 
expansion, especially in the North American 
market. His energy, good humour and 
commitment to our customers will be 
missed by us all.
John Neill has also indicated that he will  
step down from the Board after just over  
six years as a Non-Executive Director and 
will not therefore put himself forward  
for re-election at the 2015 AGM. I would  
like to thank John for his tremendous 
contribution to the Board and his exemplary 
commitment to Rolls-Royce over the last  
six years. He will be missed and we wish  
him well for the future.
I am pleased to announce that Irene Dorner 
will be joining the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director with effect from 27 July 2015.  
She will also become a member of the 
Nominations and Governance Committee 
and the Safety and Ethics Committee from 
the date of her appointment. She brings a 
wealth of experience from international 
banking along with a passion for driving 
culture change in large organisations.
Irene was CEO and president of HSBC  
USA until December 2014 where she was 
responsible for all of HSBC’s operations  
in the US and played a key role in 
strengthening their risk processes. During 
her 29-year career at HSBC, she held a 
number of international roles. She was  
the first woman to lead HSBC in Malaysia 
and launched its Islamic banking unit.  
She is a passionate advocate of diversity  
and inclusion. 
There have been some adjustments to the 
committee structure of the Board, explained 
in more detail in my introduction to the 
Directors’ Report on page 56. Safety and 
Ethics have been combined into one 
committee under the chairmanship  
of Sir Frank Chapman, formerly CEO of  
BG Group. I have also established a Science 
and Technology Committee, under the 
chairmanship of Warren East, formerly  
CEO of ARM Holdings. Science and 
technology are critical to the Company’s 
success and warrant the attention of a 
focused committee, in addition to general 
board oversight.
We have benefited again from the insight 
and experience of our International Advisory 
Board (IAB) the composition of which is 
described on page 57. The role of the IAB  
is to provide contextual understanding  
of international economic and political 
developments, and to help management 
and the Board better understand long-term 
geographical opportunities and risks. 
Members of the IAB are also available to our 
senior management on specific issues and 
areas of expertise. We are fortunate to have 
such a wealth of experience and knowledge 
at our disposal. I am very grateful to them 
and in particular to Lord Powell for his 
exemplary chairmanship of the IAB.
I would like to thank my fellow board 
members for their diligence and 
outstanding commitment to Rolls-Royce.  
I would also like to thank John Rishton, his 
management team and all our employees 
for their hard work and exceptional 
dedication in a demanding year.
I hope this review demonstrates our 
understanding of the concerns about 
Rolls-Royce’s financial performance in 2014 
and the 2015 outlook. We are totally focused 
on returning the Company to its long-term 
trajectory of profitable growth and of 
superior shareholder returns. We will 
continue to focus on the 4Cs of Customer, 
Concentration, Cost and Cash to improve 
performance, and we will strengthen our 
financial controls and communications. We 
will sustain our commitment to innovation 
and development.
The fundamentals of the business remain 
strong. They are underpinned by our record 
order book and our expanding installed 
equipment base that will generate value  
for years ahead. This is a sound business 
with continued growth potential.
IAN DAVIS
Chairman
12 February 2015
13
Strategic Report
