 Rosslyn Data Technologies plc Annual report and accounts 2014
03
Chief Executive 
Officer’s statement
2013–14 was a year of consolidation for the business as we 
prepared the business for listing. Revenues increased by a 
healthy 12% to £2m. The IPO in April 2014 was accompanied 
by a placing of new shares which raised £10m (gross). These 
funds will allow us to make an investment into our sales and 
marketing functions, both areas we have strengthened in 
recent months with the appointment of new management. 
I’m sure this new leadership and the resources now available 
to support these teams will unleash a material increase 
in our sales in the coming years.
The funds raised at the IPO will also be directed at investment 
to support our exciting research and development plans. 
The team, led by Quynh Nguyen who was appointed CTO 
during the year, continues to develop the suite of products 
on the RAPid platform. Recruitment of quality software 
engineers remains a challenge but we intend to add up 
to eight extra engineers to the team, as and when we 
are able to find the right individuals.
While we continue to work on developing our direct sales 
efforts, we are excited by the potential of the partnership 
route to market, particularly in the medium to longer term. 
Since the IPO we have developed a number of new partnership 
arrangements. We hope to be able to make a more concrete 
announcement soon about these developments. Some 
are more advanced than others, and not all will develop 
into material revenue streams, but the Board believes that 
diversifying this revenue stream is important and accelerates 
our route to market. 
In early 2013 we signed an agreement with Xerox 
Commercial Solutions LLC (Xerox) and 2013–14 was 
the first full year of that partnership. Work took place 
across a broad suite of potential products, many of which 
we hope will see full market launches in the coming year 
and beyond. The revenue potential of these products 
is substantial but the development and market testing 
process, controlled by Xerox, is measured on a monthly, 
not weekly, basis.
Since the year end we have signed a series of new contracts. 
Notable amongst this new business was the contract with 
BIY Cloud, which has brought a highly diversified client 
base and the opportunity to accelerate the number of 
“apps” on the RAPid platform. Uptake of our recently 
launched self-service product has been encouraging.
I look forward with confidence to the 2014–15 financial 
year. We have begun to deploy the funds made available 
to us at the IPO and the returns from this investment are 
beginning to show through. The nature of our contracts 
means the full effect will be felt in 2015–16.
I would like to join John O’Hara in thanking our employees, 
without whom none of this would be possible. 
Charlie Clark
CEO
16 September 2014
_2_RDT_ar14_Front_[SKA_KW_OG].indd   3 23/09/2014   14:58:59
