 Rosslyn Data Technologies plc Annual report and accounts 2014
02
Overview Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report results for the year ended 30 April 2014, 
the Company’s first set of results since its admission to AIM 
on 29 April 2014, when we also raised £10m (gross) through 
a placing of ordinary shares. This has been a significant 
period for Rosslyn and the funds raised leave us well 
positioned to exploit the market opportunities ahead of 
us. Moreover, our admission to AIM significantly increased 
the Company’s profile and is proving advantageous in 
helping us to exploit business opportunities. 
Prior to the listing, Rosslyn Data Technologies plc acquired 
Rosslyn Analytics Ltd, thereby becoming the new holding 
company for Rosslyn Analytics Ltd and Rosslyn Analytics, Inc. 
Results are in line with expectations, with revenues up 12.6% 
to £2.1m (2013: £1.8m) and gross profit up 7.8% to £1.7m 
(2013: £1.6m). Losses for the year increased by £1.5m as we 
continued our investment in both people and technology. 
£0.3m of this figure arose from the cost of granting share 
options to staff. The Board firmly believes it is important 
for as many staff as possible to have an equity stake in 
the business. These options gave all staff, at listing, with 
at least three months service a stake in the company. 
At 30 April 2014, the Group had a robust cash position of 
£9.0m (2013: £0.1m), attributable to proceeds from our 
placing at the time of IPO, which will be used for further 
investment in our technology, sales and marketing. 
We continued to invest in research and development 
in the year – a key part of our growth strategy – with 
tax-qualifying R&D spend up by over 20%, to ensure that 
our product offering remains market leading; our focus 
on investing in our products, sales and marketing means 
we can capitalise fully on emerging possibilities within 
our sector. During the year, we filed our first patent, 
for our unique machine learning data technology, 
and continue to invest in intellectual property protection, 
with a further patent application expected in 2014–15. 
Rosslyn has established itself as a leader in delivering 
cloud-based business data analytics to customers through 
its proprietary RAPid platform, a scalable cloud-based solution 
that extracts, combines and synchronises data from hundreds 
of sources to enable businesses to effectively analyse and 
utilise their data, resulting in cost saving, greater efficiency 
and better decision making. 
The Group has made encouraging progress in this financial 
year and is gaining traction and momentum within the 
cloud-based analytics sector. As testament to the strength 
of our product offering, Lindsay Smith, Secretary General 
of Eurocloud UK, the SaaS and cloud computing community 
of industry experts, said:
“Rosslyn Analytics is a fine example of British innovation. 
From its inception, Rosslyn Analytics wasn’t just one of 
the early originators of cloud-based analytics delivered 
as a service. It clearly helped to shape the market here and 
overseas by successfully demonstrating the rapid business 
value of cloud computing to companies and governments 
around the world. ” 
At Rosslyn, our people are a valuable asset and the Directors 
would like to thank everyone at the Company for their hard 
work and dedication over the past year. Their efforts are 
hugely appreciated and I look forward to continuing to 
work together as our Company grows further. We have 
schemes in place to ensure that employees can benefit 
from the Group’s financial performance and that their 
vision and efforts are aligned with those of our shareholders. 
The Board is confident about further progress in the next 
financial year and I look forward to updating shareholders 
on our development in due course. 
John O’Hara
Chairman
16 September 2014
_2_RDT_ar14_Front_[SKA_KW_OG].indd   2 23/09/2014   14:58:59
