 Rotork plc  Annual Report 2012
14
Overview 1-11
Business Review 12-39
Directors 40-43
Governance 44-64
Financial Statements 65-114
Company Information 115-117
2012 was a year of good 
progress. We delivered 
strong organic growth and 
successfully integrated the 
acquisitions made during 
2011. The investments in our 
international sales channels 
and the expansion of our 
product portfolio helped each 
of the divisions achieve record 
results.
Peter France
Chief Executive
chief executive’s review
We continue to expand our international 
presence and currently have 22 
manufacturing sites, 61 offices and a further 
63 regional locations in 33 countries 
meaning we now have sales channels in 94 
countries in total. Our customers continue 
to demand operational and product 
excellence. We provide this through focused 
attention on customer satisfaction and 
investment in our people and facilities.
I am pleased to report that our strategy for 
growth has delivered record results. Order 
intake for the year was £539.3m, up 16.8% 
on the previous year. On an organic 
constant currency basis order intake was 
14.4% ahead of 2011.
Revenue was again weighted to the fourth 
quarter and we enjoyed a particularly strong 
end to the year. Revenue for the full year 
was £511.7m, 14.3% up on the prior year. 
Adjusted* operating profit margin was 
25.8%, slightly lower than the 25.9% 
achieved last year but, excluding the impact 
of acquisitions and currency, the adjusted 
margin was 26.0%.
The Company benefits from a diverse 
product portfolio and an extensive 
geographical reach. The industries that we 
serve often have high barriers to entry: for 
example, actuators usually require 
certification and approvals before they can 
be used. They are also mission critical to the 
operations of our customers and, as such, 
investment in the quality and reliability of 
equipment and service is an area of acute 
focus for them.
In 2012 we have seen an increase in orders 
in the oil & gas market, which has been 
driven in part by activity related to shale  
gas discoveries and the subsequent 
investment in liquefied natural gas (LNG) 
projects. The power market has been 
impacted by a slowdown in China and a 
lack of spend in India, although the long 
term need for power generation in these 
countries remains. The water market 
showed signs of growth, such that, even  
in countries such as China, which saw a 
decline in the power market in 2012, Rotork 
was still able to record year-on-year growth.
Through the establishment of Rotork 
Instruments, we have increasingly been 
addressing industry sectors outside of oil & 
gas, power and water. The acquisitions of 
Fairchild in 2011 and Soldo, a switch box 
manufacturer based in Italy, in November 
2012, provide the division with a solid 
platform to build on and we look forward 
to growing the division over time.
We have continued to invest in the 
infrastructure of the business. During 2012 
we opened our new Chennai factory in 
India and in Russia we expanded our facility 
in Moscow and opened a new office in  
St Petersburg. We also opened new facilities 
in São Paulo, Brazil, Jebel Ali, UAE and 
Edmonton, Canada amongst others. We 
have acquired another site in Bath to 
accommodate the growth of the Controls 
division and we will be moving to a new 
facility in Leeds which will house Rotork 
Gears and Rotork UK. Both sites will be  
fully operational by the end of 2013. Rotork plc Annual Report 2012
15
Overview 1-11
Business Review 12-39
Directors 40-43
Governance 44-64
Financial Statements 65-114
Company Information 115-117
Research and Development
All divisions launched new products during 
2012. We introduced the third generation  
of our ﬂagship IQ range to build on Rotork’s 
position as the premium brand in our 
market by providing our customers with the 
very latest technology. In Controls we also 
launched the complementary Compact 
Modulating Actuator (CMA), which has 
strengthened the Rotork Process Control 
portfolio of electric actuators.
In Rotork Fluid Systems, the investments we 
have made in recent years have resulted in 
the introduction of a number of new 
products, including the latest Gas-over-Oil 
actuator range.
Our spend on R&D increased once again 
this year, up 27% to £7.4m. We continue  
to increase our engineering resources and to 
work on other initiatives which will support 
product launches in 2013 and beyond.
Rotork Site Services (RSS)
Rotork Site Services operates mainly within 
the Rotork Controls and Rotork Fluid 
Systems divisions and focuses mostly on 
preventative maintenance contracts, onsite 
and workshop service and retroﬁt solutions. 
This business continues to grow and 
provides us with the ability to work closely 
with our existing customer base and 
develop relationships which enhance the 
sales opportunities for the full range of 
Rotork products.
We measure RSS’s performance against a 
number of key metrics and the number of 
service engineers is one of these. In the year 
we have increased the number of service 
engineers by 8% and we now have over 
320 service personnel globally. Our products 
are often used in environmentally 
challenging locations and the need for 
certainty of operation means that the 
customer is looking for local service and, 
increasingly, preventative maintenance 
contracts. Rotork now has close to 100,000 
actuators under some form of maintenance 
contract, an increase of 6% over last year.
Our people
One of our aims is for the Company to be 
a great place to work. At the end of 
November we conducted our annual 
Employee Satisfaction Survey and saw the 
response rate increase from 73% to 77%. 
The overall satisfaction score also improved 
to 3.6 from 3.5. All individual questions 
showed an improvement over the prior year, 
reﬂecting the continued effort being made 
throughout the organisation.
2012 was another year of strong growth 
and we welcomed 228 people into the 
Rotork family, 29 joining with the Soldo 
acquisition. With the acquisition of 
Schischek in January we have added a 
further 100 employees and this means that 
we now have approximately 2,800 staff in 
33 countries.
In January 2013 Alan Paine was appointed 
as the ﬁrst Divisional Managing Director of 
Rotork Instruments and we also welcomed 
him to the Rotork Management Board.
Rotork’s success is due to the dedication 
and hard work of our staff. I would like to 
take this opportunity to thank them for 
making Rotork the world-class business  
that it is.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The Rotork Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) framework is embedded in many 
aspects of the way we do business,  
the way we interact with our people and 
the communities in which we are based  
and it is an integral part of our culture.  
The four Sub-Committees of the CSR 
Committee provide the necessary focus on 
the key areas of environment, health and 
safety, ethics and social issues and recognise 
the different disciplines best placed to  
drive these different aspects of CSR. The 
Sub-Committees communicate to teams 
throughout the Group and monitor progress 
against their respective objectives. More 
information regarding the CSR Committee 
and its work is set out on pages 32 to 39.
* References to adjusted proﬁt throughout this 
document are deﬁned as the IFRS proﬁt, whether 
proﬁt before tax or operating proﬁt, with the 
amortisation of acquired intangibles added back.
During the past decade, 
several thousand Rotork 
IQ intelligent electric 
valve actuators have 
been installed on the 
West-East Gas Pipeline 
project, a pipeline 
network running 
through 66 counties 
in China.
