 Roxi Petroleum plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 08
Chairman’s statement
The two fundamental issues at the start of 2011 were finding a 
replacement farm-out partner at BNG and securing the 
required regulatory consents to allow production at our three 
principal assets.
BNG Farm-out & related funding issues
As reported in the interim statement in May 2011, we 
negotiated the cancellation of the previous BNG farm-out 
arrangements with Canamens NV, following their decision  
to withdraw from Kazakhstan. This resulted at the interim 
stage in an accounting profit of some US $ 39 million. A 
further US $ 10 million was credited to the profit & loss 
account following the completion of the US $ 50 million 
LG farm-in at Galaz.
Throughout 2011, we continued the planned development 
work at BNG as using the unspent funding from Canamens 
and then funding provided by Mr Oraziman, a director of the 
Company and its largest shareholder.
Consequently, the short term debt to Mr Oraziman and 
companies associated with him rose to a level the independent 
directors considered unsustainable. As a result we announced 
in late September 2011, with the agreement of Mr Oraziman 
and in consultation with the Company’s nominated adviser 
Strand Hanson to convert some US $ 9.4 million of the short 
term debt into 188,771,895 new Roxi shares.
In March 2012, we announced that the Korean National Oil 
Corporation (“KNOC”) had agreed to become our partner at BNG 
and had acquired a 35 per cent interest in the BNG Contract Area 
for an initial consideration of US $ 5 million and a US $ 25 million 
contribution to the BNG work programme ahead of the next 
planned Contract Area licence extension due in June 2013.
We are delighted to be working with such a prestigious 
partner. Completion of the farm-in is dependent, inter alia, 
upon the receipt of the required regulatory consents.
Regulatory consents
For several years the pace of development across our 
portfolio of assets was slower than we would have wished, 
principally as a result of the delays in securing the required 
regulatory consents. 
In this respect we are in the same position as other 
Exploration and Production companies operating in 
Kazakhstan. During the lengthy application process the 
regulatory framework was recast with new ministries and 
complex new laws were introduced.
Nevertheless, in December 2011, we were awarded the final 
permissions, which were the gas flaring permits for BNG and 
Galaz, to allow drilling for pilot production. Drilling activities 
commenced at Galaz in December 2011 and at BNG in 
January 2012.
Despite a very cold winter in Kazakhstan, we have drilled  
three wells all of which are currently being evaluated. We 
commenced pilot production at Galaz in January 2012 and 
expect pilot production to commence at BNG and full 
commercial production at Munaily later in 2012.
Although the production levels are low, having production  
at our three principal assets and having leading multi-
national farm-out partners at BNG and Galaz marks a 
transformation for Roxi from a struggling exploration 
company at the beginning of 2011 to a company which  
we expect will produce at increasing rates as oil starts  
to flow from new wells.
A fuller account of the development work at our assets and 
the terms of the KNOC farm-out at BNG are contained in the 
Chief Executive’s statement on page 10.
Future strategy
Given the Company’s financial constraints the Board does not 
believe now is the time to consider investing in new assets. 
Accordingly, for the time being, all our available resources will 
be focused on our current projects.
Roxi has signed farm-out deals on its two principal assets, 
BNG and Galaz. Its other asset capable of early production, 
Munaily, already has a 15 year production license and will not 
require significant Roxi input to develop. Production has 
already started at Galaz and is expected at BNG and Munaily 
later in the year. This is a position Roxi’s board has been 
working towards for several years. 
Once the BNG farm-out has completed, all the significant day 
to day operational, regulatory and financial management 
activities at BNG and Galaz will be handled through the 
farm-out vehicles supervised by our farm-out partners. Roxi’s 
interests will be safeguarded by representation on the various 
Joint Operating Committees and by its involvement and 
consent to all significant additional capital costs.
The skill and resource base required to manage these assets 
as operator and to find, negotiate and conclude farm-out 
deals is not the same as that required to monitor 
developments as a junior farm-out partner. Your Board has 
therefore decided that Roxi can and should for the time being 
be run on a much reduced cost basis.
I am pleased to report that your Company made very significant advances 
in 2011 and has continued to do so in the early months of 2012.  09
Business Review Year in Review Governance Financial Statements Company Information Highlights
Roxi Petroleum plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Members of the executive management team have agreed to 
take significant reductions in pay and there is underway a 
thorough review of all ongoing costs with a view to 
establishing a lean organisation capable of safeguarding 
Roxi’s commercial interests but at an affordable cost.
Management changes
David Wilkes has agreed with the Board that he will transition 
his CEO responsibilities to Mr Oraziman, the Company’s 
largest shareholder and principal funder over the past few 
years, who has been an executive director since 2008 and 
who will become CEO, effective on 1 June 2012. David will 
remain with the Company until September 2012 and during 
this period will transition his CFO responsibilities to myself, 
who will become an Executive Chairman on 1 June 2012, 
taking on, at board level, the financial management 
responsibilities, with Edmund Limerick becoming the senior 
Non-Executive Director. David will then become a consultant  
to the Company with effect from 1 October 2012.
Mr Hyunsik Jang will remain as Chief Operating Officer,  
taking the leading technical role in dealings with our farm- 
in partners.
David Wilkes
I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the 
excellent job David has done for Roxi. He joined the Company 
in 2009 as Chief Financial Officer and became Chief Executive 
Officer at the start of 2010, retaining most of the 
responsibilities as CFO.
David joined during a period of upheaval when companies 
such as Roxi found investor appetite for early stage 
exploration companies had faded and new funding from 
traditional financial investors had dried up. By that stage Roxi 
was committed to develop its assets according to existing 
work programme commitments.
He led the Company through several rounds of necessary cost 
cutting, which stabilised the expenditure but more importantly 
he led the Company through the complex farm-out 
negotiations on Galaz and BNG and then again at BNG after 
Canamens had decided to withdraw from Kazakhstan.
Throughout this period, David had to contend with significant 
structural changes to method regulation of the oil & gas 
industry in Kazakhstan and to changes to the tax 
environment. David displayed an exemplary professional 
approach in dealing with the issues at hand during what have 
been arguably the most difficult three years of Roxi’s brief 
existence. The Company is now in a far stronger position than 
when he first joined it and should be justifiably proud of his 
achievements. I am also very pleased that David will continue 
as a consultant to the Company going forward.
Employees
As in previous years I would like to thank our employees for 
their sustained hard work and commitment during what have 
been difficult times.
Outlook
As a result of the successes noted above I believe we are  
in a stronger position now than we have been at any time  
over the past few years. Clearly our future success depends 
on achieving further operational success. However, as 
production increases across our asset portfolio our funding 
options should widen.
We will look to leverage on the operational and financial 
strengths of our farm-out partners KNOC and LGI to increase 
shareholder value and to report further operational successes 
as they arise.
Clive Carver
Chairman
8 May 2012
