 10
Roxi Petroleum plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chief Executive’s statement
Update
Roxi’s effective interest in the following assets was as follows:
Asset
Interest at  
1 January 
2011
Interest at  
31 December 
2011
BNG Ltd LLP 23.41% 58.41%
Galaz and Company LLP 57.82% 34.22%
Munailly Kazakhstan LLP 58.41% 58.41%
Beibars Munai LLP 50% 50%
We are very close now to achieving our primary goal of 
transitioning three of our assets into production. Galaz was 
our first asset to commence production in January 2012. The 
revenue from future production will help finance the ongoing 
fixed costs as well as contribute towards the development 
costs of each of the assets going forward. This represents  
a significant milestone for Roxi and will significantly  
reduce the financial risks associated with being a purely 
exploration company during a period of volatility within  
world financial markets. 
BNG
We faced some challenges on BNG during 2011, with our 
partner Canamens deciding to withdraw from Kazakhstan  
and its participation in BNG, having invested approximately  
US $ 38 million into exploring one of the smaller prospects on 
the BNG acreage, South Yelemes. Canamens departure in the 
first quarter 2011 resulted in Roxi’s effective interest in BNG 
increasing from 23.41 per cent to 58.41 per cent, yet at the 
same time it left us with a shortfall in funding for BNG for 
2011. Roxi sought additional short term funding from one of 
its shareholders, Vertom International BV, to continue with the 
exploration and development of Yelemes, until such time that 
we secured an additional farm-in partner for BNG.
In March 2012, we agreed terms on the farm-out of a 35 per 
cent interest in the BNG license to a subsidiary of the Korean 
National Oil Company (“KNOC”). The deal encompasses  
US $ 30 million being invested of which US $ 5 million will  
be paid to BNG LLP, the current operator of the Airshagil 
license and subsidiary of Roxi, with a further US $ 25 million 
funding being provided to finance the current license 
obligations, including the drilling of two deep pre salt back 
to back wells on the license area. At the same time, KNOC 
will enter into an option and pledge agreement over 32 per 
cent of the interest in Galaz (‘the Galaz interest”). KNOC will 
have the option to elect to transfer its interest from 35 per 
cent of BNG to 32 per cent of Galaz, but only after fulfilling 
its funding obligation towards the BNG work obligation. 
Should KNOC elect to exercise their option for the Galaz 
interest, there will be an associated option price of US $ 5 
million that will have to be paid as consideration to Galaz 
Energy BV, a subsidiary of Roxi. 
This represents a significant deal for Roxi and we welcome 
KNOC as partners to this strategic project for us. KNOC will 
be appointed as operator over our joint interest in the BNG 
contract area. This farm-in arrangement will enable us to 
explore some of the deeper prospects within the BNG 
territory where we believe the greater potential and value 
exists for our shareholders.
BNG engaged Gaffney Cline & Associates (“GCA”) to 
undertake a technical audit of the BNG license area and 
subsequently PGS to undertake depth migration work, 
based on the 3D seismic work carried out in 2009 and 
2010. The work of GCA resulted in confirming total unrisked 
resources of 900 million barrels from 37 prospects and 
leads mapped from the 3D seismic work undertaken in 
2009 and 2010. The report of GCA also confirmed risked 
resources of 202 million barrels as well as Most-Likely 
Contingent Resources of 13 million barrels on South 
Yelemes. The depth migration work that was carried out by 
PGS enables BNG to gain a greater understanding of some  
of the deeper prospects yet to be explored. BNG now 
plans, together with its new partner, KNOC, to drill two 
pre-salt wells into the deeper horizons as part of its  
current work obligation, where we believe the greater 
potential in BNG exists.
BNG recently received the necessary licences to permit pilot 
production to commence and is now in the process of putting 
facilities in place to re-commence production from wells 54 
We have now achieved the transition from exploration to 
production and along with our new partners LGI and KNOC,  
are looking forward to developing our core assets to bring 
further value to our shareholders 11
Business Review Year in Review Governance Financial Statements Company Information Highlights
Roxi Petroleum plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
and 805 that discovered oil on South Yelemes in 2010. Both 
these wells were drilled and tested before being shut in 
pending receipt of the required licenses to commence pilot 
production. The wells previously flowed at 70 and 140 bopd 
during the period of test production. In February 2012, BNG 
completed the drilling of well 136 to a test depth of 3,008 
metres and completed the wire logging. Oil shows were 
encountered between 2,442 and 3,008 metres. The evaluation 
and testing of well 136 and the commencement of pilot 
production on South Yelemes will be completed by our  
new operator for BNG, KNOC.
Galaz
As a result of the completion of the farm-out deal with LG 
International (“LGI”) in the first quarter 2011, our effective 
interest in Galaz reduced from 57.82 per cent to 34.22 per 
cent, with LGI obtaining a 40 per cent interest in Galaz in 
return for a US $ 50 million deal, comprising a combination  
of assigned debt, future funding and purchase consideration 
to Roxi. Secondly, LGI completed a reservoir study with 
Schlumberger and have since developed a drilling program 
that will prioritise drilling appraisal and exploratory wells to 
enable further reserves to transition from P2 to P1 
classification. The first two of the planned new appraisal wells 
were drilled in December 2011, to a depth of 1,500 metres. 
Although the results from testing these two wells were 
disappointing, it did provide some useful information on the 
reserves in place on NW Konys. We have recently spudded 
well NK 7 in the North Channel and we are expecting that this 
will bring more positive news for Galaz.
Galaz also received all licenses necessary to permit pilot 
production to commence, enabling Galaz to put well NK-6 
into production in January 2012. Average production from this 
well has been 155 bopd to date. This well was one of five wells 
drilled in 2009, when oil was first discovered on NW Konys. 
Oil production is currently being transported to one of our 
neighbouring fields, where it is sold at domestic oil prices until 
such time as production increases to levels sufficient to export. 
Other assets
Roxi’s other assets comprise interests in Beibars (50 per cent) 
and Munaily (58.41 per cent). At Beibars the military polygon 
is still reserving use of the field for exercises. We have applied 
for existing exploration license to be extended, given that our 
ability to complete works at the territory have been impaired 
by the force majeure situation. We plan to farm-out part of our 
interest in Beibars to an investor willing to fund the drilling of 
exploratory wells that will enable us to assess the potential of 
this asset once the military use has been removed.
After a long period of negotiation on Munaily, Roxi came to an 
agreement to cancel the sale of its interest to the previous 
buyer, BT Corporation. This enabled Roxi to retain its effective 
interest of 58.41 per cent in Munaily. In return, Roxi agreed to 
return all funds paid by the former buyer, including an amount 
for the cost of the well the buyer drilled on Munaily in 2009. 
Roxi financed this by obtaining a loan of US $ 2.5 million from 
one of its shareholders, Radite NV. This loan is secured against 
a 30 per cent interest in Munaily. Munaily has a 15 year 
production licence in place and the Company plans now to 
commence production from its well H1 after installing facilities 
in the field. The well previously flowed at 80 bopd during its test 
production phase. In addition, the Company plans to drill a 
further 4 production wells over the next two years. 
Financing Arrangements
We faced some difficult challenges in 2011 to fund the 
ongoing work programme on BNG with our partner Canamens 
taking the decision to exit operations from Kazakhstan early 
in the year. With no external institutional debt on the balance 
sheet we were able to negotiate a series of short term funding 
arrangements with our principal shareholder, including 
converting some of his existing debt to equity, to help 
navigate the business to a point where we could secure a new 
farm-in partner for BNG as well as ensuring we continued to 
meet our ongoing work obligations on this core asset. This 
enabled us to commence the drilling of well 136 in the final 
quarter 2011 and start putting in place facilities to commence 
pilot production. 12
Roxi Petroleum plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
These ongoing financing challenges have led the Board to 
reconsider what further restructuring is needed to ensure the 
business is able to sustain its activity until production 
commences across all its assets. The Chairman has indicated 
in his report that the Board plans to undertake management 
restructuring, through a combination of changing roles or 
implementing pay cuts at this critical juncture for the 
Company. I fully support these changes as I believe they will 
enable the Company to successfully transition to production 
and ensure a self financing business model is achieved. 
In addition to these initiatives, the recent US $ 30 million 
farm-out of interest in BNG to KNOC will provide the 
additional financing needed for BNG and its partner to 
complete the required work programme on the BNG license 
for the period to June 2013, as well as meet some of the 
working capital needs of the group. On 30 April 2012, Roxi 
negotiated an increase in the loan facility arrangement with 
Vertom International NV to US$ 7 million. This will be used to 
finance the ongoing work obligations on Galaz and Munaily  
as well as the ongoing reduced working capital needs of the 
Group. These initiatives will permit the Company to sustain  
its activities through the end of 2013.
Financial Highlights
The Consolidated Income Statement on page 25 still  
reflects the fact that we have historically been an exploration 
company with little commercial production to date. The 
results have also been impacted by the fair value adjustments 
made on the farm-out deals completed on BNG with 
Canamens and KNOC, as well as the cost of share based 
payments and ongoing administrative costs which resulting  
in a net loss of US $ 9.5 million being recognised during the 
period. We continue to drive cost efficiencies into our 
corporate structure and whilst we expect our share of costs 
associated from our joint venture interest to increase as 
operations there develop, overall we plan to reduce costs 
through further restructuring.
Our aim going forward, as we move to production, is to 
continue to work on cost reduction initiatives as well as to 
increase top line revenues as pilot production commences 
from three of our assets, of which production has already 
commenced on Galaz in January 2012.
Social Programmes
Under Kazakh regulations part of our obligations under 
various work programmes on the assets in which we have an 
interest are paid in the form of contributions to local social 
programmes. In 2011, Roxi made significant contributions to: 
•	 Kyzylorda region social fund US $ 302,500 (Galaz); and
•	 Mangistau regional social obligation fund US $ 33,700 
(BNG).
These contributions, while mandatory, help secure the good 
standing of the Company with the local regional authorities 
and with centrally based regulators. Roxi is pleased to have 
assisted in the developments of these projects. 
Environmental
No significant environmental issues have arisen at any of the 
properties acquired to date. Compliance with environmental 
regulatory bodies is being managed from both the Aktau and 
Almaty offices.
Kazakhstan
Kazakhstan continues to develop and is constantly amending 
its legal framework and tax legislation to achieve the right 
balance between the State and the need to encourage new 
investment into Kazakhstan and from existing companies 
who conduct business in Kazakhstan. Operating in 
Kazakhstan in such times of evolution can from time  
to time present difficulties. 
As a Kazakh based operation, with a majority of Asian 
investors we believe we are ideally placed to deal with any 
issues as they arise and see this as a competitive advantage 
compared with some of the difficulties being encountered by 
other less integrated international companies.
Chief Executive’s statement continued
The forthcoming drilling campaign to be undertaken on both Galaz 
and BNG will represent the next key milestone events for Roxi, 
which if successful, could significantly improve Roxi’s fortunes. 13
Business Review Year in Review Governance Financial Statements Company Information Highlights
Roxi Petroleum plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Outlook
With the restructuring initiatives in place and with the 
successful completion of the farm-out of our BNG interest  
to KNOC, this should bring more stability to Roxi’s operations 
going forward. The forthcoming drilling campaign to be 
undertaken on both Galaz and BNG will represent the next 
key milestone events for Roxi, which if successful, could 
significantly improve Roxi’s fortunes.
Finally, I would like to thank my team at Roxi for their 
commitment and loyalty to the organisation, without which  
we could not have achieved our successes to date.
David Wilkes
Chief Executive Officer
8 May 2012 
