 14 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
GROWING
Our	acquisition	strategy	remains	unchanged:	we	continue	to	look	for	
opportunities	to	grow	through	acquisition.	Our	target	companies	will	
be	in	the	field	of	flow	control	and	are	tested	against	our	criteria.	They	
should	satisfy	at	least	one	of	the	following	criteria;	enhance	our	
position in an end-user market, enhance or extend our product 
offering	or	enhance	our	position	in	a	geographic	market.
GROWING WE’RE
AND DRIVING 
FORWARD Governance Directors Financial Statements Company Information Strategic Report
15 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CASE STUDY
Y oung	T ech	Co.	leads	the	way	in	tough	applications
Process industries often depend on high 
performance valve actuation in harsh 
environments.	Despite	the	difficult	
surroundings, process plants demand the latest 
technology,	such	as	smart	positioners,	which	
allow	technicians	to	use	auto-calibration	and	
simple diagnostics to commission and monitor 
their entire system at the push of a button. In 
many cases, the valve, actuator and smart 
positioner package is exposed to extreme 
temperatures, dirty conditions and other 
challenges such as high vibration.
Y oung	T ech	Co.	(YTC)	has	developed	two	smart	
positioner products that thrive under these 
harsh	conditions	and	which	have	paved	the	way	
to	expansion	and	growth	in	tough	process	
control applications.
Remote sensing unit positioners
The YT -3301 introduced the concept of 
isolating and detaching the sensing feedback 
portion of the positioner from the main control 
housing. The sensing unit accurately detects 
the position of the valve stem and provides a 
feedback signal to the main housing. This dual 
unit	design	allows	the	operator	to	locate	the	
precision electronics elements at a considerable 
distance from the valve environment, providing 
the	best	of	both	worlds	–	precision	engagement	
at the point of valve movement and a clean, dry 
and ambient temperature for the electronics. 
This also facilitates mounting multiple control 
housings in close proximity for convenient and 
time saving monitoring and adjustment of 
valves in the plant.
T riple module remote positioners
Remotely mounting the sensing unit provides 
dramatically improved reliability and 
performance,	but	at	longer	distances	between	
the sensing unit and the control housing 
pneumatic signal loss may occur . In extreme 
situations this could lead to hunting and 
oscillation of the electronics and reduced valve 
and actuator positional stability.
T o assure superior performance in these 
difficult	applications,	in	2014	YTC	developed	the	
YT -3302 positioner . With this product, a third 
module, housing the driving components of the 
pilot valve and torque motor assembly, is 
mounted	at	an	intermediate	location	between	
the remote sensing unit and the main control 
unit.	This	configuration	delivers	higher	
performance	with	dramatically	increased	
positional accuracy.
Added	benefits	include	the	ease	of	maintenance	
for each of the modules and the ability to gang 
mount modules at convenient locations. 
Standardisation of modules and components 
also	facilitates	spare	part	simplification	and	
inventory cost reduction.
The	flexibility	of	modular	smart	positioners	 
will	enable	the	Instruments	business	to	grow	 
by	offering	more	user	friendly	solutions	and	
simplifying end-users’ valve control and 
maintenance tasks. The increasing requirement 
for	smart	positioners	in	the	markets	that	we	
serve	mean	that	we	are	well	placed	to	increase	
our presence in this market.
3
COMPANIES ACQUIRED 
IN	2014:
YTC, KOREA  
ROTORK MIDLAND, UK
MASSO, IT AL Y
