 Moya Greene
Chief Executive Officer
Our vision is to be 
recognised as the 
best delivery 
company in the UK 
and across Europe.
Chief Executive Officer’s review
I am pleased to report another good performance.  
We have built a foundation for sustained, steady 
performance against a backdrop of significant  
structural and operational change.
The Group’s operating profit after 
transformation costs increased to £430 
million from £403 million. This was due to 
parcel revenue growth more than offsetting 
letter volume declines. Operating profit 
margin declined from 4.4 to 4.2 per cent,  
due to the provision for our management 
reorganisation programme. Profit before 
taxation excluding specific items increased  
to £363 million and our notional earnings  
per share was 26.3 pence. Free cash flow 
increased to £398 million, primarily due to an 
improved trading performance and reduced 
investment spend.
UKPIL revenue was up two per cent at £7,787 
million. Parcel revenue increased by seven per 
cent to £3,162 million while volumes were 
flat, mainly due to the impact of size-based 
pricing on consumers and small and medium-
sized enterprises (SMEs) and the industrial 
relations environment at the end of 2013. The 
operating profit margin before transformation 
costs increased, as costs grew at a slower rate 
than revenue. However, the provision for the 
management reorganisation programme 
reduced the operating profit margin after 
transformation costs, to 3.5 per cent.
GLS delivered revenue growth across all its 
markets. Total revenue was £1,651 million 
and operating profits were £108 million. The 
operating profit margin was slightly lower 
than last year at 6.5 per cent. Despite 
increasing revenue in Germany, significant 
competitor investment in capacity and 
increasing sub-contractor rates put pressure 
on margins. Revenue growth was driven by  
a strong performance in Italy due to our 
network of owned and franchised operations. 
We are making progress with our turnaround 
programme in France. 
Our vision
Our vision is to be recognised as the best 
delivery company in the UK and across 
Europe. 
We are the leading provider of postal and 
delivery services in the UK. GLS operates one 
of the largest ground-based, deferred parcel 
delivery networks in Europe. 
A clear strategy
Our strategy is based on three priorities:
1) being a successful parcels business;
2) managing the decline in letters
3) being customer focused
We are focused on delivering efficiency and 
productivity improvements as our mail mix 
changes. We must increase the pace at which 
we deliver change – whether large or small –  
if we are to succeed. Our strategy is also 
underpinned by a focus on managing our 
business successfully, which includes people, 
customer and financial measures (see pages 
16 to 17 for more information).
Parcels
Our parcels strategy: key points
• Getting the basics right: improving our 
first time delivery rates through 
initiatives like Delivery to Neighbour.
• Getting the technology right: including 
making it easier for our customers to 
access our networks and rolling out 
FlexDelivery in GLS.
• Expanding and automating our networks: 
detailed planning for parcels systems 
upgrades and automation in the core 
Royal Mail network; expanding the 
geographic footprint of GLS through 
organic growth and selective acquisitions.
UKPIL collects and delivers parcels and letters 
predominantly through the Royal Mail core 
network and Parcelforce Worldwide. We offer 
deferred, express and courier services across 
a number of segments. Over recent years, 
e-retailing has driven parcel volume increases 
in the UK. Competition is intense and capacity 
is increasing. We are focused on maintaining 
our leading position by becoming increasingly 
flexible and efficient, and offering additional 
service features and options. While our 
volumes are driven largely by growth in 
e-commerce, we do not benefit from growth 
in all areas of e-retailing. For example, we do 
not operate in all online segments and are 
under-represented in some areas, such as 
returns for clothing and shoes. We are now 
focusing on faster growing market segments. 
08
Royal Mail plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 We are increasing the proportion of items we 
can carry cost-effectively on foot, enabled 
by trolleys. 
Our parcel customer base is large and diverse. 
Around a quarter of our domestic parcel 
revenue, excluding Parcelforce Worldwide, 
is generated by large and medium-sized 
companies, whilst approximately three 
quarters is generated by consumers, 
micro-SMEs and SMEs. Our single largest 
parcel customer accounts for approximately 
six per cent of UKPIL parcel revenue. Changes 
to its minimum order for free delivery and the 
expansion of its own delivery capabilities are 
expected to reduce available volume. However, 
we believe the breadth of our customer base 
and our strategy of supporting SMEs to grow 
through e-commerce means we are not as 
exposed to the actions of our largest 
customers as some of our competitors.
In April 2013, we introduced size-based 
pricing for consumers and SMEs to ensure 
that parcels are delivered through the most 
appropriate UK network. This approach has 
driven significant growth in revenue, while 
parcel volumes were flat. Declines in 
consumer volumes were greater than 
expected. We recognised this quickly and  
took action to fix it – expanding small parcels 
dimensions in October 2013.
We are also making it easier for customers to 
receive and return parcels. Royal Mail is to 
pilot Sunday afternoon opening at around 100 
of its delivery offices across the UK later this 
summer. We will also trial Sunday parcel 
deliveries later this summer to addresses 
within the M25 motorway. Parcelforce 
Worldwide will also launch a Sunday delivery 
service in June for online shoppers through 
participating e-retailers. 
We have added tracking to all contract returns 
services, so customers can check whether 
items have gone back to the seller and the 
seller can see when an item is coming. 
Working with the Post Office, Royal Mail has 
launched Local Collect – the UK’s largest click 
and collect network. Receiving a parcel at 
home is still the UK consumer’s preferred 
method of delivery. If this is not convenient, 
customers can choose one of around 10,500 
participating post offices as a parcel collection 
point. We have completed the expansion of 
the capacity of Parcelforce Worldwide, with a 
domestic hub opened in Chorley in 2013 and 
eleven depots newly opened or upgraded 
across the UK in the financial year.
Delivery companies are increasingly 
technology companies, as they seek to provide 
improved tracking and delivery solutions.  
In 2011, UKPIL began a five year IT 
transformation programme, one objective  
of which was to support the delivery of our 
parcels strategy. We completed the issue of 
more than 74,000 handheld scanners to our 
postmen and women in time for Christmas 
2013. Looking forward, key areas of 
investment will provide additional tracking 
systems, including expanding barcoding and 
SMS messaging.
GLS is a strategically important part of Royal 
Mail Group. It provides geographical 
diversification of our earnings. Its experience 
and focus on parcel delivery means it is a core 
component of Royal Mail’s vision of being 
recognised as the best delivery company  
in the UK and across Europe.
Business-to-business (B2B) parcel customers 
form GLS’ core market, representing more 
than 70 per cent of all parcel volumes it 
delivered in the year. It is mainly active in the 
deferred parcels segment – the least time-
sensitive type of delivery. 94 per cent of GLS’ 
revenue came from deferred parcels.
GLS continued its introduction and 
enhancement of FlexDelivery. This is a 
monitoring and tracking service that allows 
customers to change the delivery time and 
location of parcels. FlexDelivery is currently 
available in ten markets, with plans to roll it 
out to more countries. It is also available for 
cross-border traffic in selected markets. 
GLS operates through wholly-owned and 
partner companies, in 37 countries and  
nation states across Europe, with strategies 
developed based on the dynamics of each local 
market. However, every business focuses  
on reliable quality with a strong customer 
emphasis, optimising the use of technology  
to provide the services and flexibility 
customers expect.
Letters
Our letters strategy: key points
• Managing the structural decline in the 
letters market by adding value to 
customer mailings: rolling out Mailmark™ 
barcoding technology and promoting the 
value of marketing mail. 
• Calling on Ofcom to address the potential 
threat to the economics of the Universal 
Service created by the uncertainty 
caused by its Competition Act 
investigation, access pricing policy review 
and the unfettered growth of direct 
delivery competition. 
• Leveraging the benefits of our 
investments in letter automation by 
increasing the number of letters sorted 
into delivery order and optimising mail 
handling techniques.
Our letters performance was at the better end 
of our expectations. Revenue was down two 
per cent. Addressed letter volumes declined by 
four per cent during the year. The decline in 
addressed letter volumes moderated in the 
second half. This was due to strengthening 
economic conditions, alongside one-off 
impacts such as energy companies writing to 
customers about price rises in October 2013, 
and an increase in stamped mail volumes in 
December 2013, including Christmas cards. 
In March 2014, we began the rollout of 
Mailmark™, which provides barcode 
technology and online reporting for machine-
readable business, advertising and publishing 
mail. Mailmark™ will deliver a number of 
additional benefits for customers, including 
timely reporting on performance and 
predicted delivery times, and more accurate 
and transparent billing. 
Marketing mail revenue was £1,111 million. 
Research has demonstrated that using 
marketing mail in combination with other 
media significantly increases communications 
effectiveness. Our MarketReach business aims 
to prove and promote the commercial value of 
mail and enables customers to realise that 
value within their own businesses. These 
additional services complement the extensive 
UK delivery network, which Royal Mail uses for 
the distribution of customers’ marketing mail.
As we seek to win business, we are flexing our 
services to provide what customers want. 
During March 2014, we were awarded a 
significant contract to collect and deliver  
mail for 14 councils across London. This 
collaborative agreement, where mail services 
have been procured centrally in order to gain 
efficiencies, is the first of its kind for Royal 
Mail and the councils. 
Regulation
We are proud to deliver the Universal Service. 
But, the sustainability of the Universal Service 
depends on Royal Mail being able to use 
revenue from easy-to-serve urban areas  
to cover the cost of a nationwide network 
capable of serving all addresses at a 
uniform price.
On 10 January 2014, we announced a 
number of changes to Royal Mail’s access 
contracts. The changes were intended to help 
secure the provision of the Universal Service, 
against the backdrop of a continuing decline in 
letter volumes. Following a complaint by TNT 
Post UK, Ofcom opened an investigation into 
some of the access contract changes on 
21 February 2014. The price changes subject 
to Ofcom’s investigation are suspended 
until the outcome of this investigation. On 
9 April 2014, Ofcom confirmed that it would 
09
Royal Mail plc  
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Chief Executive Officer’s review (continued)
use its powers under the Competition Act 
1998 to investigate the complaint. 
The planned changes to access contracts are 
an important part of our commercial response 
to changing market conditions, including the 
expansion of direct delivery
1
 competition. We 
believe TNT Post UK’s complaint is unfounded. 
We believe the changes are fair, reasonable 
and fully within the guidance provided by 
Ofcom
2
. We are cooperating fully with Ofcom 
to ensure the investigation is completed as 
quickly as possible, so that our planned 
changes can be put into effect. 
On 9 April 2014, following the end of the 
reporting period, Ofcom also announced a 
policy review of the access conditions imposed 
on Royal Mail in March 2012, and Ofcom’s 
guidance on those conditions. Ofcom has  
said it will complete this by the end of 2014. 
We are proactively engaging with Ofcom on 
this review. 
TNT Post UK now has direct delivery 
operations in much of London and in 
Manchester and in Liverpool. It has stated its 
intention to take its own direct delivery 
service to a number of other cities, with the 
aim of covering around 42 per cent of 
addresses by 2017. TNT Post UK can 
cherry-pick easy-to-serve urban areas; 
delivering easy-to-handle post to homes less 
frequently than Royal Mail and to no defined 
quality standard. Royal Mail is required to 
deliver six-days-a-week, overnight, 
throughout the whole country, to stringent 
quality standards and at a uniform, affordable 
tariff. Moreover, we are also required to 
deliver any items TNT Post UK does not 
consider economic to deliver itself. If TNT 
Post UK is successful in delivering its stated 
objectives, this could threaten the 
fundamental economics of the Universal 
Service. Based on our estimates of the impact 
of TNT Post UK’s publicly-stated plans, this 
could reduce Royal Mail revenue by over 
£200 million in 2017-18
3
. At the same time, 
our ability to reduce costs to offset this would 
be limited by our obligations to deliver the 
Universal Service.
Our analysis is that, without timely 
intervention from the regulator, direct delivery 
competition will have a serious impact on the 
sustainability of the Universal Service. Ofcom 
has stated that an EBIT margin range of 
between five and ten per cent for Royal Mail’s 
reported business is appropriate and 
consistent with the need for Royal Mail to earn 
a reasonable commercial rate of return
4
. With 
our proposed access price changes remaining 
suspended and unfettered direct delivery 
rollout, there is a reasonable prospect that 
this level of margin may never sustainably  
be achieved. 
We do not believe the current situation serves 
the best interests of consumers. Ofcom has 
acknowledged in a recent guidance document 
its duty, powers and willingness to act to 
protect the Universal Service if required
5
. 
However, effective regulatory action could 
take some time to implement. Meanwhile, the 
Competition Act investigation and Ofcom’s 
access policy review may create a significant 
period of uncertainty in the UK postal market. 
This uncertainty, combined with our Universal 
Service commitments, means our ability to 
respond commercially is constrained. At the 
same time, direct delivery operators are 
continuing to expand their operations. This is 
why we are preparing a regulatory submission 
calling on Ofcom to take action now and carry 
out a full review of direct delivery. Such a 
review would be in line with Ofcom’s primary 
duty to secure the provision of the Universal 
Service. It would also allow for full 
1 
Direct delivery refers to a situation where other postal operators convey mail from customer to recipient, entirely using their own delivery network and not Royal Mail. 
2
 Ofcom: ‘End-to-end competition in the postal sector: Final guidance on Ofcom’s approach to assessing the impact on the Universal Postal Service ’ of 27 March 2013 and ‘Securing 
the Universal Postal Service: Decision on the new regulatory framework’ , Ofcom statement of 27 March 2012.
3 
Based on: TNT Post UK’s stated ambition of 42.3 per cent delivery point coverage in 2017; expected addressed inland letter market volumes of approximately 11 billion items in 
2017-18, using Royal Mail’s forecast range of a 4-6 per cent per annum decline in addressed letter market volumes; our estimate that TNT Post UK achieves a 20 per cent local market 
share in areas where it operates in 2017-18; and an annual RPI increase in our Average Unit Revenue per Downstream Access item.
4 
‘Securing the Universal Postal Service: Decision on the new regulatory framework’, Ofcom statement of 27 March 2012, paragraph 5.47.
5 
‘Final guidance on Ofcom’s approach to assessing end-to-end competition’, Ofcom statement of 27 March 2013.
A year of achievement
Royal Mail and Post Office announce 
launch of Local Collect, the UK’s 
largest click and collect network  
May 2013
July 2013 
Andy Murray’s historic Wimbledon win  
celebrated with special stamps 
£70 million
initiative announced to improve the value 
of business mail through Mailmark™ 
barcode technology 
July 2013
Pensions Reform confirmed following 
consultation with Plan members 
September 2013
April 2013 May 2013 June 2013 July 2013 August 2013 September 2013
10
Royal Mail plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 6 
Not adjusted for force majeure.
7 
This is not adjusted for force majeure. In 2012-13 the adjusted for force majeure result was 92.5 per cent, including external events such as snow, volcanic ash clouds and the 2012 
London Olympics.
8 
An internal measure for all retail parcel products in the Royal Mail core network.
9 
This has been restated from 486,400 due to the addition of Door to Door complaints. These were previously tracked separately and have been integrated to improve oversight of 
complaints across the business. 
consideration of what regulatory interventions 
may be necessary. At the same time, we are 
raising the issue with HM Government and are 
seeking a legislative amendment that would 
require a review of direct delivery if Ofcom 
does not initiate one in a timely manner.
Customers
We have a trusted brand. Our most recent 
Corporate Image Report, conducted by Ipsos 
MORI in November 2013, indicated that 71 per 
cent of customers believe Royal Mail’s services 
are good value for money. 
Our own research indicates that our mean 
business customer satisfaction score is 75. 
This is an increase on 74 last year, and 70 in 
2011-12.
 See KPIs pages 18 to 19
It is strategically important that we maintain 
this customer loyalty.
Our regulated Quality of Service specifications 
are amongst the highest of any major 
European country. 
I am delighted to report that we exceeded our 
regulatory targets for both First and Second 
Class mail in 2013-14. 93.2
6
 per cent of First 
Class mail was delivered the following day 
(2013 91.7
7
 per cent), and 98.9 per cent of 
Second Class mail was delivered within three 
days of posting. 
 See KPIs pages 18 to 19
We have delivered a significant improvement 
on prior years against our internal composite 
parcels measure
8
. We achieved a performance 
of 95.1 per cent, meeting our target. 
 See KPIs pages 18 to 19
Overall, complaints were down six per cent on 
last year (2013 489,900
9
; 2014 458,700).  
Improving our performance in this important 
area is a key strategic focus. 
 See KPIs pages 18 to 19
Four issues account for the majority of 
complaints: redirection, misdeliveries, 
redeliveries and ‘Something for You’ cards. 
Our performance has improved for three of 
these complaints, the exception being 
‘Something for You’ cards. Our Delivery to 
Neighbour initiative is a key focus as we seek 
to improve the effectiveness of our delivery 
operations and reduce redeliveries. Recent 
Ofcom research found that 94 per cent of 
customers were satisfied with this service. 
Transformation and cost control
Royal Mail is continuing to transform as we 
seek to mitigate falling letter volumes and 
manage increasing parcel volumes in an 
increasingly competitive parcels market. As a 
matter of course, we look to organise similar 
tasks into single areas to avoid unnecessary 
duplication. Since 2003, more than 50,000 
people have left the UK business, with 12,000 
leaving in the last four years. On 25 March 
2014, we launched a consultation with our 
unions on a proposal to achieve a net 
reduction of 1,300 roles, mainly within our 
managerial population. We recognise that this 
change is tough on our people. But, we must 
continuously improve our efficiency. This is a 
key way to sustain the Universal Service and 
secure good quality jobs for our people. 
As we have said before, the initial phase of our 
transformation is largely complete. Almost all 
of our Delivery Offices have now commenced 
or completed modernisation. We continue to 
drive improvements in the network to be 
Admission to trading on the London Stock  
Exchange; £490 million of Free Shares in  
Royal Mail allocated to approximately  
150,000 employees  
October 2013
December 2013 
Winning designs from  
children’s competition feature  
on Christmas stamps 
£2 million
fundraising target met, including matched 
giving, for our Charity of the Year, Prostate 
Cancer UK 
March 2014
New industrial relations framework 
approved by CWU members  
February 2014
October 2013 November 2013 December 2013 January 2014 February 2014 March 2014
11
Royal Mail plc  
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information more productive and effective. We are now 
focusing on standardising processes and 
embedding examples of best practice. 
Relatively small changes, implemented across 
our business, can deliver significant efficiency 
benefits. We will be launching a nationwide 
campaign to ensure Delivery to Neighbour is 
deployed consistently where appropriate. 
Improving our rate of first time delivery is a 
key strategic focus across our operations. 
Our expansion programme in Parcelforce 
Worldwide is now complete. We are continuing 
to plan for automation in the Royal Mail 
core network. 
The productivity improvement of 1.7 per cent 
was disappointing. Whilst we reduced collections, 
processing and delivery hours by 2.9 per cent, 
the industrial relations environment meant  
we were unable to extract more hours to 
compensate for the impact on workload 
associated with flat parcel volumes. Most of Royal 
Mail’s non-people costs are subject to inflationary 
pressures. This year we were particularly 
successful in addressing this. Non-people costs 
were down by three per cent in UKPIL.
Our people
Following our recent flotation, the 
overwhelming majority of our UK employees 
are also shareholders in our Company. Free 
Shares gave our people a direct stake in the 
Company and its future success. Each eligible 
full-time employee who participated in the 
Free Shares Offer now has 729 shares.  
They, along with all shareholders, will receive 
a final dividend in July 2014, subject to 
shareholder approval. 
In December 2013, we announced an 
agreement in principle with the 
Communication Workers’ Union (CWU). 
This was approved by its members in 
February 2014. The agreement is wide 
ranging in its coverage and focused in its 
support of the business. It represents a joint 
commitment to radically improve industrial 
relations and create a can-do culture in the 
interests of customers, employees and the 
Company. We are focused on bedding down 
this agreement to ensure that we provide a 
stable and unique platform for problem-
solving and for jointly moving the business 
forward at a faster pace.
Outlook
Our key value drivers of single digit revenue 
growth, margin expansion and underlying  
free cash flow growth remain the objectives 
for the Group for the 2014-15 financial year. 
However, while we are satisfied with our 
progress in 2013-14, we are facing increasing 
challenges in the parcels and letters markets 
in the UK. 
We intend to pursue a progressive dividend 
policy having regard to the normalised 
earnings progression of the Group. As the 
regulatory position on direct delivery becomes 
clearer, the Board would expect to provide 
more clarity on our dividend policy. 
Royal Mail in the private sector
We must continue to deliver change at an 
increasing pace to meet the challenges of the 
changing mix of mail, the liberalised UK postal 
market, intense parcel competition, and a 
need to become more productive and efficient. 
Royal Mail’s transformation is being delivered 
whilst maintaining our high Quality of Service 
levels. I would like to thank all my colleagues 
for the fortitude and conscientiousness with 
which they have embraced these changes. 
I am confident that, with their continued 
diligence and support, we will be able to make 
ongoing progress in delivering our strategy.
Moya Greene
Chief Executive Officer 
6 June 2014
Chief Executive Officer’s review (continued)
12
Royal Mail plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014
