 Statement by the Chief Executive
RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 3
In 2007/08, we achieved record
revenue and adjusted operating profit
levels in what continues to be a very
competitive environment marked by
input cost pressures from both high
polymer and energy costs. This year
has seen a continuation of effort to
give the Group a more efficient cost
base with major rationalisation
programmes underway across five of
the seven clusters. Given this backdrop,
it is pleasing to report that a record
adjusted operating profit of £40.6m
(2007: £38.1m) was achieved and that
the adjusted profit before tax*
increased to £30.2m (2007: £29.4m).
The adjusted earnings per share**
improved from 20.6p to 21.5p.
Significant restructuring costs, in total
amounting to £19.7m (2007: £12.0m),
were incurred. Consequently the basic
earnings per share was reduced to 4.4p
(2007: 13.2p).
Overview of the Year
The principal challenge came again
from rising polymer prices which, for
the 12 month period, were at their
highest ever level and more than 9%
ahead of the average for the previous
year. This means that our 2007/08
portfolio of business has now incurred
almost £100m of additional polymer
cost over the last five years which we
have either passed on to our
customers or has damaged our profits.
This is before the substantial increases
in electricity, outer packaging and
carriage costs which were once again a
feature of the year and from which a
high proportion of manufacturing
industry is currently suffering. The
Blow Moulding and Thermoforming
businesses have a high content of raw
material and experienced another
difficult year. Generally speaking, these
businesses have been able, however, to
offset the input cost challenge with a
combination of cost saving initiatives
and pricing strategies to pass on the
raw material increases to our
customers. We had another successful
year in Injection Moulding with good
underlying performance in both the UK
Injection Moulding and Bramlage-Wiko
clusters, the latter demonstrating
strong growth in Tassimo coffee
capsules.
The cost pressures on the Group are
being met by a real determination
across all our operations to effect
operational efficiencies and achieve
cost reductions. In this challenging
environment we are looking harder at
our underperforming operations and, as
can be seen from the size of our
restructuring costs, we are taking
strong action where necessary. Sites at
Hereford, Thornaby, Piaseczno and
L
/
askarzew have been closed or will be
by the end of the second quarter of
2008/09. We have also moved activity
between locations, with an example
being our recent decision to rationalise
our blow moulding activities in the
Netherlands leading to a significant
reduction in the workforce at Halfweg
and the transfer of equipment to our
Kerkrade site. The significant
restructuring costs incurred over the
last 2 years, encompassing the closure
of 6 sites, are starting to have a
progressively more beneficial effect
not only by eliminating some loss-
making operations but also by the
transfer of profitable contracts to
other locations without taking on
additional overhead.
Financial Highlights
Revenue for the year at £695.2m was
7.7% ahead of last year’s £645.7m;
this represents a 4.4% increase on a
like-for-like basis. Adjusted operating
profit was up 6.6% at £40.6m (2007:
£38.1m) although margins reduced
slightly to 5.8% of sales (2007: 5.9%).
Adjusted EBITDA was largely flat at
£71.6m compared with £72.2m in the
previous year. The underlying tax rate
at 29.5% is lower than the previous
year (31.0%) primarily as a result of
reduced corporate tax rates in some of
our key operating environments, in 
Custom-moulded multi-layer bottles from
RPC Containers Corby have been used for
the launch of the UK foodservice industry’s
first ever premium range of ready-to-use
cooking sauces and soups, produced by
Premier Foods under the famous Loyd
Grossman brand.
The launch of the microwavable Snap Pot,
the revolutionary new concept from 
HJ Heinz for its famous baked beans, has
been made possible by the multi-layer
thermoforming expertise of RPC Bebo
Plastik.
** adjusted profit before tax is operating
profit before restructuring, disruption
and impairment charges, and negative
goodwill released to income less net
interest
** adjusted earnings per share is adjusted
profit before tax less underlying tax at
29.5% (2007: 31.0%) divided by the
weighted average number of shares in
issue during the year Statement by the Chief Executive continued
particular, Germany. Performance in the
second half improved compared with
the first half year with revenues up by 
10.8% and the adjusted operating profit
increasing from £18.7m to £21.9m.
Cash generated by operations was
£63.5m compared with £40.9m last
year mainly due to a better working
capital performance reflecting the
increased focus on cash generation.
The higher value of raw materials and
finished goods stocks was primarily
due to higher polymer prices and the
weakening of the Sterling exchange
rate to the Euro. Net bank debt at the
year end was £149.4m (2007:
£137.1m). At constant exchange rates
the equivalent net debt would be
approximately £137m. Gearing reduced
to 83.1% (2007: 86.5%).
Capital expenditure at £33.4m (2007:
£35.5m) was lower reflecting the
increased focus on cash generation.
Significant projects completed were
the installation of new capacity to
make barrier jars for the expanding
fruit market, the extension of our
facility to manufacture Nestlé’s Dolce
Gusto capsules, the re-location of
equipment for the manufacture of
cups from the Netherlands to the UK
to save transport costs and the
automation of our specialised electro-
plating facility in France. Capital
expenditure net of disposals reduced
to £27.1m (2007: £33.2m).
Strategy and Acquisitions
Our key strategy over the years has
been to develop our business through
organic growth and acquisition in well-
defined niches within the rigid plastic
packaging industry. It is of benefit that
we are able to service our customers
with the full range of technologies
used in this industry, but it is critical
that we have not sought to be a minor
player in every niche. Thus we have a
major position in plastic paint cans for
the UK surface coatings market, in
stock injection and blow-moulded
packs for the UK market, and across
Europe in blow-moulded and
thermoformed oxygen barrier
technology, in pre-printed lids
principally for the yellow fats market,
in deo-sticks, toothpaste dispensers,
airless cream dispensers, inhalant
devices and a host of other products. It
is because we offer our customers
unique strengths in these well-defined
areas that we have been able to
recover the majority of the
unprecedented cost increases that we
have incurred in recent years.
Nonetheless on 6 June 2008, we
launched a comprehensive strategic
review of all these issues in the hope
and expectation that we can further
improve our performance. The results
will be announced as soon as they are
available.
Meanwhile there were three beneficial
acquisitions made in the year under
review:
On 1 June 2007, we acquired the
plastic manufacturing operations of
DM Plast s.r.o. in Vel’k´ y Meder, near
Bratislava, in Slovakia for a
consideration of £1.7m. Importantly, it
gives us our first injection moulding
facility in the lower-cost economies of
Central Europe, ideally situated to
supply the Central and Eastern
European economies and with a track-
record of supplying Western European
customers, notably Henkel. Annual
sales in the full year before acquisition
totalled c. £3.0m; it has integrated well
and is providing an additional
dimension to our successful Bramlage-
Wiko injection moulding business.
We acquired Raytec BV for £3.0m on 
8 October 2007. Raytec, which is
based in the Netherlands, reported
sales of about £11.0m in its last
financial year and will allow further
expansion into the DIY, household and
stationery markets. This business is
now trading as RPC Bramlage DHS BV.
We purchased a business called MOB
located at Moirans en Montagne from
the Administrator on 23 November
2007 for a consideration of £1.7m.
MOB was a leader in the French blow-
moulded stock container industry until
July 2007 when it was forced into
administration by its parent, Smoby,
which was in financial difficulties. The
turnover of c. £12.0m recorded in the
4 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
The latest luxury cosmetics packaging
concept developed by RPC beauté for
Lancôme Color Fever uses several
technologies, including bi-injection,
overmoulding, sonic welding and the
recently developed technique of partial
electroplating, to create its distinctive
look.
The proven functionality and aesthetics of
RPC Bramlage-Wiko’s Magic Star and
Magic SL dispensers are playing a vital role
in the launch of a men’s range of personal
care products under the renowned Boots
No. 7 brand. RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 5
year to 31 March 2007 fell as a result
of polymer supply problems during the
early part of the period in which it was
in administration, but we have seen
some recovery since its acquisition by
the Group. This acquisition has allowed
us to concentrate our French stock
container manufacture at this site
moving the more specialised
customised products to our nearby,
existing facility at Montpont.
All three of these acquisitions made a
positive contribution to the Group’s
results.
New Product Development
Activities
Our reputation in the market place for
innovation and development of new
packaging concepts is based upon a
number of successful launches
including those of the in-mould
labelled margarine tub and pre-printed
lid for Unilever, the Dolce Gusto coffee
capsule for Nestlé, the Snap Pots pack
for Heinz’ Baked Beans and Spaghetti
Hoops and the Fruitissimo jar for
Schwartauer Werke. This activity has
intensified during the year under
review and we anticipate a number of
novel and interesting new pack
launches over the coming months,
including a new dry powder inhalation
system for the pharmaceutical market
which we are developing in
conjunction with a major
pharmaceutical company. We have also
strengthened our design and
development facilities at Bramlage in
Germany and at Rushden in the UK.
Furthermore, we have continued to
explore some exciting new processing
technologies which we expect will
yield significant benefits in the future.
All in all we have become the supplier
of choice for the development of
novel, innovative products designed to
open up new markets. Nothing could
demonstrate this more clearly than our
supply position to the newly emerging
market for pods and discs for closed
loop coffee systems to replace
“instant” beverages.
Board and Personnel
We have ensured a smooth Board
succession with the appointment of a
new Finance Director, Pim Vervaat, on
1 November 2007. Pim has brought a
refreshing new impetus to the Group
with a renewed focus on performance
measurement, working capital
management and cash conservation.
Chris Sworn who has made an
invaluable contribution as Finance
Director over 17 years, has assumed
responsibility for managing our Blow
Moulding operations and has adopted
this role with characteristic energy and
enthusiasm. Chris remains an executive
member of the Board.
The Board would like to thank Peter
Williams who is retiring as Chairman
after 17 years on the Board, with the
last 8 of those years at the helm of
your Company. In that period, Peter has
been instrumental in forging our
special ethos by helping to create the
decentralised structure that has so
influenced the culture of the Company
and has led the Group’s growth to its
current size. Without him the Group
would not have enjoyed the success it
has and the Board have thanked him
for his contribution over this period.
The search for his successor is
underway with a specialist firm having
been appointed to assist us. Further
information on this appointment will
be provided as soon as it is available.
As a consequence of our decentralised
structure we are able to provide many
opportunities for individuals to make
their own contribution to the Group.
We appreciate the outstanding efforts
by all who together have enabled the
Group to confront the difficult market
conditions.
Dividend
Your Board is recommending an
increase in the final dividend to 6.1p
per share (2007: 5.7p) making a total
for the year of 9.0p (2007: 8.4p), an
increase of 7.1%. Subject to approval
at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting, the final dividend will be paid
The innovative and convenient double-
pack concept for Lätta margarine
demonstrates the thermoforming and pre-
printing expertise of RPC Bebo Plastik.
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh makes the unique single
serve drink capsules for Nestlé’s
revolutionary Nescafé Dolce Gusto system,
delivering coffee shop quality beverages in
the home. Statement by the Chief Executive continued
6 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
on 5 September 2008 to shareholders
on the register on 8 August 2008.
Outlook
Our market positioning will benefit us
in the uncertain period that lies ahead.
Over 50% of our products are supplied
to the food market which can be relied
upon to remain resilient. Our second
biggest market is beauty and personal
care which continues to grow strongly.
Overall, rigid plastic packaging
continues to grow faster than GDP, and
GDP in Germany is outpacing GDP in
the rest of Europe to our advantage.
We are also benefiting from the
adverse effect increased costs have
had on our competitors.
Our performance in the last financial
year improved as it progressed and we
have benefited in the later stages from
some modest amelioration in polymer
prices. It is not possible to predict with
any certainty whether this favourable
development will continue in the
short-term particularly with oil prices
hitting new highs. However, the
significant polymer capacity coming
on stream over the next few years
makes it highly likely that polymer
markets will move in our favour in the
medium term. What is sure for
2008/09 is that energy costs will be
higher, but the on-going cost reduction
measures and recent acquisitions will
benefit our results along with the
translational effect of the strong Euro
– a currency in which we make a
significant percentage of our sales and
profits. The new financial year has
started satisfactorily but the surge in
oil prices may restrict our progress in
the short-term. Nevertheless, the
Board continues to believe that our
medium and long-term prospects are
excellent.
R J E Marsh
Chief Executive
Prestigo is RPC Tedeco-Gizeh’s innovative
system for providing the hygiene and
convenience of disposable cups without
compromising on quality.
