 Overview
07
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Chief Executive Officer’s  
review
Our vision is to be the 
most successful delivery 
company in the UK.
Moya Greene 
Chief Executive Officer
We are reporting a strong financial 
performance. Our strategy is delivering. 
The transformation of Royal Mail is 
well underway.
Our key metrics are moving in the right 
direction. Reported Group operating profit after 
transformation costs grew from £152 million 
to £440 million due to cost control and 
improved revenue generated by parcel volume 
and letter revenue growth. Our operating profit 
margin after transformation costs increased 
to 4.4 per cent on a like-for-like basis. Free 
cash inflow increased from £154 million to 
£334 million, mainly generated by trading. 
Parcels continue to be a major contributor 
to Group revenue at 48 per cent. 
Just over three years ago, our core UK 
business had significant cash outflows. 
Now, despite the challenging UK economic 
conditions, UKPIL contributes the majority of 
Group operating profit; its reported operating 
profit margin after transformation costs has 
increased to 3.9 per cent on a like-for-like 
basis. As the transformation of UKPIL gathers 
pace, we are harnessing the benefits of the 
new regulatory framework, introduced in the 
UK in April 2012. Today, approximately five per 
cent of Royal Mail revenue is subject to direct 
price control. In short, we are delivering a 
stronger commercial performance, and our 
prices are now closer to the European median.
GLS, our ground-based European parcels 
carrier, delivered a resilient performance. 
Difficult trading conditions in Germany 
and France were mitigated to some extent 
by improved trading performance in 
other countries. 
Delivering our strategy
Our vision is to be the most successful delivery 
company in the UK. Royal Mail is already a 
market leader by revenue in both the UK 
parcels and letters markets. GLS is an 
established, ground-based parcels player 
in all its markets. This means we are well 
positioned to deliver our strategic priorities:
1. being a successful parcels business;
2. managing the decline in letters; and
3. being customer-focused.
We are creating a commercial, customer-
focused company, offsetting addressed letter 
declines with revenue growth from parcels, 
which is expected to drive profitable growth. 
With the continued support and engagement 
of our people, we can deliver these objectives 
to help to ensure that we are financially 
successful and able to access the capital 
needed to deliver the ongoing transformation 
of our business. 
Being a successful parcels business
We operate in a dynamic and growing parcels 
market. During the year, we handled a 
reported total of 1,461 million parcels 
(2012 1,391 million) through our three parcel 
networks in the UK and continental Europe. 
For more information on our parcels strategy, 
see page 21.
We remain well positioned to benefit from 
significant growth in online retailing in the UK, 
where Royal Mail is the biggest overall parcel 
delivery player by revenue. A recent survey
1
 
found that 76 per cent of people in the UK are 
more likely to use a particular online retailer 
again if they deliver through Royal Mail.
Over 90 per cent of the UKPIL parcels that we 
handle, including Universal Service Obligation 
(USO) parcels, are delivered by our core UK 
network, through which we also handle letters. 
In the last financial year, this combined network 
handled reported volumes of 1,010 million 
parcels (2012 950 million), with quality being 
a key consideration. This focus on quality 
is important in a market where businesses 
and consumers rightly demand high 
service standards.
Parcelforce Worldwide, our UK express parcels 
delivery business, handled reported volumes 
of 71 million items during the year (2012 
66 million), about seven per cent of our UKPIL 
parcel volumes. It benefits from a very high 
quality of service performance and is poised 
to deliver a significant increase in the volumes 
it handles in the years to come. In October 
2012, we announced a £75 million, four-year 
investment programme for Parcelforce 
Worldwide, as we expand our position 
in the UK express parcels market. 
GLS carried 380 million parcels in 2012-13 
(2012 375 million). Its parcel volumes grew 
by one per cent during the year, with growth 
in both domestic and international volumes.
1
  Hall & Partners, Delivery Matters 2013. Overview
08
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Chief Executive Officer’s review (continued)
Managing the decline in letters
UKPIL’s letters business is key to our financial 
success, generating £4,787 million (including 
marketing mail) in reported revenue during 
the year. However, as I have said in my 
previous reports, addressed letter volumes 
have been in structural decline for a number 
of years. In 2011-12, we handled 63 million 
addressed items every day. Today, this has 
fallen to 58 million. For more detail on our 
letters strategy, see page 21.
Our letter revenue, including marketing mail, 
increased by three per cent on a like-for-like 
basis. Addressed letter volumes decreased by 
eight per cent on a like-for-like basis, in line with 
our expectations. Following price increases, we 
are making a profit on Access Mail – the mail 
other postal operators place in our downstream 
network for us to deliver on their behalf. This 
is a significant step forward as it accounts 
for approximately half of our addressed letter 
volumes. Access Mail also makes a considerable 
contribution to the cost of funding the USO 
network. Marketing mail remains a significant 
contributor to letter revenue
2
. MarketReach, 
an initiative we launched in July 2012 to help 
companies and their agencies derive more value 
from mail, is focused on helping to mitigate the 
impact of the letters decline. The advertising 
market has shown little growth during the year. 
Despite this, marketing mail revenue increased 
by two per cent on a like-for-like basis. 
As I have also reported in previous years, 
our transformation programme, one of the 
largest of its kind in UK industry, is improving 
our productivity. 79 per cent of letters are 
now sequenced to delivery point. Our delivery 
revisions programme is well underway, as 
we roll out new methods, processes and 
equipment to help our colleagues manage 
the fundamental shift in our traffic towards 
parcels. 
In March 2013, Ofcom published guidance 
setting out its regulatory approach to 
protect the Universal Service from growing 
direct delivery (end-to-end) competition. 
We welcome Ofcom’s acknowledgement in its 
guidance of its duty, powers and willingness 
to act to protect the Universal Service if 
direct delivery competition threatened its 
sustainability. We are also pleased to note 
Ofcom’s commitment to actively monitor all 
direct delivery market participants and track 
developments and any prospective risks to the 
Universal Service.
Being customer focused
In a recent survey of adults in Great Britain
3
, 
Royal Mail was the most favourably viewed 
company of all the participating organisations. 
Our own research shows that our mean 
business customer satisfaction score is 74, 
an increase of four points on last year. But 
we are aware that our customers have 
many options. 
To be their first choice, we must get the 
basics right and be easy to do business with. 
We gather customer feedback extensively 
across our business and use this insight 
to increase customer satisfaction, reduce 
customer complaints and improve the 
whole customer experience. 
For example, last year we launched a monthly 
customer report, which focuses on a number 
of key metrics, including benchmarking our 
performance against our peers and how likely 
our customers are to recommend Royal Mail. 
Assessing all the information available to us, 
including social media activity and inputs from 
our sales teams, provides a holistic view of 
how we are meeting customer needs, and 
where we need to take action. 
A number of important customer initiatives 
were implemented during the year. In April 
2013, just after the financial year end, we 
streamlined our consumer First Class parcels 
offering from 15 to seven weight bands and 
introduced two parcel categories – small and 
medium. This simplified our product range, 
making it easier for customers to understand 
and make informed choices. 
We know the areas where we need to 
improve our service. Over 60 per cent of all 
our complaints are caused by four issues – 
P739 ‘Something for you’ cards, redelivery, 
redirection and misdelivery. We have made 
good progress on redirection, redelivery and 
misdelivery, where complaints have reduced 
since 2009. For example, we offer a free 
redelivery service, where customers can have 
an item redelivered to their address on a day 
of their choosing, or select an alternative 
address in the same postcode area.
We want to give recipients of parcels more 
control. Having secured regulatory approval 
from Ofcom, we rolled out our Delivery to 
Neighbour programme across the UK in 
September 2012. Our postmen and women 
can now leave parcels with a neighbour if the 
recipient is not at home. Feedback from 
people in the areas where we trialled Delivery 
to Neighbour revealed that 92 per cent
4
 of 
customers whose items were left with a 
neighbour were satisfied with the overall 
experience.
In addition, we work with mailing customers 
on forecasting delivery volumes in order to 
ensure extra temporary operational capacity 
is available to cope with seasonal peaks and 
that we can continue to deliver a high quality 
of service. This approach ensured we had the 
capacity required to manage increased parcel 
volumes over the Christmas period, through 
the installation of eight temporary parcel 
sort centres. 
Our people
Our people are key to our transformation and, 
in particular, the successful delivery of our 
strategic priorities. In a recent survey, eight 
out of ten Royal Mail customers were pleased 
about the helpfulness of our postmen and 
women
5
. They are our ambassadors and 
a credit to Royal Mail. 
The safety of our colleagues in the workplace 
and on their rounds continues to be of 
paramount importance. 
Over the course of the year, the lost time 
accident frequency rate reduced by 
20 per cent.
Our World Class Mail programme – designed 
to promote continuous improvement across 
safety and productivity – continues to be 
embedded across the organisation. 
In 2012, we reintroduced a full employee 
engagement survey for 150,000 colleagues 
across the UK, following a benchmark survey 
in autumn 2011. Almost two-thirds of our 
colleagues are proud to work for Royal Mail. 
Three-quarters (76 per cent) have a clear 
understanding of what customers want. 
We are redoubling our efforts to communicate 
with our people about the challenges we face 
and our strategy to address them. We have 
2
  Marketing mail numbers are calculated using statistical 
analysis from surveys in order to estimate how our mail 
is being used. Data services and redirections were added 
into the marketing mail portfolio in 2012-13. Numbers 
have been restated accordingly.
3
 Ipsos MORI, Corporate Image Survey, December 2012.
4
  Illuminas research: 720 telephone interviews with 
trial participants.
5
  Ipsos MORI, Corporate Image Survey, December 2012. Overview
09
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
provided managers with tools and support to 
help with action planning, allowing members 
of teams to feel more engaged in the business’ 
future. Alongside our broader engagement 
programme, we are undertaking a series of 
‘town hall’ events, where members of our 
senior management team will address as 
many as 1,000 colleagues at a time. 
We are in ongoing discussions with our 
trade unions on a number of issues. In these 
discussions, we have reached agreement on 
some key issues. The Company has extended 
until April 2014 its existing voluntary 
redundancy terms for those impacted by 
modernisation and renewed its commitment 
to maintaining a predominantly full-time 
workforce. We separately confirmed that 
a change in Royal Mail’s ownership 
structure will not affect colleagues’ 
contracts of employment. 
In last year’s Report I confirmed that, just 
after the end of the financial year, almost all 
of the liabilities and assets in the Royal Mail 
Pension Plan (RMPP) were transferred to 
HM Government. This transfer could not 
address the ongoing costs of such a large 
Plan (with approximately 112,000 active 
members), which are material. For more 
information, please see page 75.
Our role in society
London 2012 was a major highlight for 
Royal Mail. We delivered 1.6 million envelopes 
enclosing approximately 7.5 million tickets 
to customers, with over 98 per cent of them 
arriving first time, on time. We were the first 
postal administration to paint its post boxes 
gold in the communities that gold medal-
winning British athletes are associated with, 
the first to pay Olympians and Paralympians 
the same financial consideration for their 
image rights, and the first to produce a 
stamp in honour of every British Olympic and 
Paralympic gold medal athlete. In this very 
special year for the UK, we were touched by 
the very positive response we received from 
members of the public as we celebrated the 
achievements of Team GB and ParalympicsGB.
We have a long heritage of contributing to our 
communities. We connect millions of customers, 
companies and communities, including those 
in the most remote rural areas, making 
commerce happen in the process. Our 
contribution to the UK at this difficult time for 
the economy is significant. For the 2011-12 
financial year, research from the Centre for 
Economics and Business Research (CEBR) 
estimated that: i) in terms of ‘value added’ 
from UK operations of companies, our core UK 
business ranked as the eighth highest in the 
UK; ii) we contributed 0.4 per cent to the UK’s 
total Gross Domestic Product (GDP), rising to 
0.7 per cent when our wider economic impacts 
were included and; iii) for every £1 we paid in 
wages, an estimated additional 57p in wages 
was generated in the wider economy through 
indirect and induced impacts.
Obtaining ongoing access to external capital
As we said at the Interim Report stage, ongoing 
access to external capital is a key part of the 
transformation process.
We believe that Royal Mail will combine the 
best of the public and private sectors. We are 
the provider of the one-price-goes-anywhere, 
six-days-a-week Universal Service Obligation. 
We are honoured to provide the Universal 
Service to more than 29 million addresses 
across the UK. The service is enshrined in the 
Postal Services Act 2011. The Act sets out 
clear and specific minimum requirements, 
which can only be changed by a vote in both 
Houses of Parliament. We are pleased that 
Ofcom found recently that nine out of ten 
residential and business customers consider 
our current level of service meets their core 
needs and there is no need for change. 
Our Quality of Service standard specifications 
are the highest of any major European 
country, and will continue to apply. Our 
societal obligations would also remain in place 
and, again, we are very proud to deliver them. 
For example, our free Articles for the Blind
6
 
service is enshrined in the Postal Services 
Act 2011. 
Demonstrating that Royal Mail can attract 
external capital will pave the way for continued 
investment in our Company. It also represents 
a further opportunity to increase the 
alignment that already exists between 
Royal Mail and its people. 
Outlook 
We are well positioned to continue to benefit 
from the structural change to e-retailing, 
which is driving increases in parcel volumes, 
and to manage the decline in letters. In the 
early weeks of 2013-14, we have seen 
similar trends to those seen in 2012-13. 
In this year’s Report, I must again thank our 
Shareholder, HM Government, for its continued 
support. In particular, I wish to thank the 
Secretary of State for Business, Innovation 
& Skills, Vince Cable, Minister of State for 
Business and Enterprise, Michael Fallon and 
their officials. I also wish to thank Dame Jane 
Newell OBE, until September 2012 the Chair 
of Royal Mail Pension Trustees Limited, and 
her successor, Joanna Matthews, for their 
counsel and support. 
Most importantly, I would like to extend my 
thanks to my colleagues. These are times of 
significant change and we are asking a lot of 
our people. I continue to be grateful for their 
hard work, dedication and support. As the 
ambassadors of this cherished Company, 
I know that they will continue to drive our 
business forward as we seek to realise our 
collective objectives.
Moya Greene 
Chief Executive Officer 
Royal Mail Group Limited 
31 July 2013
6
  A free-of-charge service for people sending items 
specifically designed for blind and visually impaired 
people within the UK and overseas.
