 Chief Executive’s Committee 
Moya Greene
Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Agar
Managing Director,  
Consumer and Network Access
Rico Back
GLS, Chief Executive Officer
Catherine Doran
Chief Information Officer
Neil Harnby
General Counsel
Mark Higson
Managing Director, 
Operations and Modernisation
Matthew Lester
Chief Finance Officer
Jon Millidge
Group HR Director
Mike Newnham
Chief Customer Officer
Shane O’Riordain
Managing Director, 
Communications, Strategy, 
Regulation and Pricing
Emily Pang
Company Secretary
Stuart Simpson
Deputy Chief Operations Officer
Sue Whalley
Chief Operations Officer
41
Royal Mail plc  
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Chief Executive’s Committee (continued)
Moya Greene Chief Executive Officer
See ‘Our Board of Directors’ on page 39.
Stephen Agar Managing Director, Consumer 
and Network Access
Current role Stephen was appointed 
Managing Director, Consumer & Network 
Access, commencing October 2011. As such, 
Stephen is responsible for the regulated 
letters business (both USO and Access).
Previous work history Stephen is a barrister 
who started his career in the Government 
Legal Service before moving to Racal 
Electronics plc. He joined Royal Mail in 1991 
and previous roles with Royal Mail include 
Business Strategy Director, Regulatory Affairs 
Director and MD, Royal Mail Wholesale.
Rico Back Chief Executive Officer, GLS 
Current role Rico was appointed Chief 
Executive Officer of GLS in October 1999.
Previous work history Rico was founding 
manager of German Parcel in 1989, which 
was acquired by the Group in 1999. He is a 
member of the CEC and a member of the 
Supervisory Board of Raben Group, a 
haulage contractor.
Catherine Doran Chief Information Officer
Current role Catherine joined Royal Mail in 
September 2011 as Chief Information Officer. 
She is a Non-Executive Director for Defra and 
BQF. She is also a member of the CIO Board 
for e-skills UK. 
Previous work history Catherine joined 
Royal Mail from Network Rail, where she  
led the company-wide transformation 
programme, aimed at achieving multi-billion 
pound savings through technology and 
process changes. Throughout her career, 
she has held progressively responsible IT 
leadership roles in a number of blue chip 
companies – BT, NatWest, Capital One, 
Logica and Altergo.
Neil Harnby General Counsel 
Current role Neil was appointed General 
Counsel in January 2012.
Previous work history Previously, Neil was 
General Counsel for the European and Middle 
Eastern Division of GE Capital, the financial 
services unit of the General Electric Company. 
Before joining GE, Neil was a Partner at 
Linklaters LLP. Neil has a BA Honours degree 
in History and is a qualified solicitor. After 
leaving university, Neil spent five years as 
a commissioned officer in the British army.
Mark Higson Managing Director, Operations 
and Modernisation 
See ‘Our Board of Directors’ on page 39.
Matthew Lester Chief Finance Officer
See ‘Our Board of Directors’ on page 39.
Jon Millidge Group HR Director 
Current role Jon was appointed Group HR 
Director in February 2014. He is also 
Chairman of National Design Consultancy Ltd 
and a Pension Scheme Trustee of the Royal 
Mail Defined Contribution Plan.
Previous work history Jon joined Royal Mail 
in 1985 as a graduate and has worked across 
all of the businesses of the Group, notably as 
HR Director in Royal Mail Letters (2003 – 
2004), Parcelforce Worldwide (2000 – 2003) 
and Subscription Services (1997 – 1998) and 
as General Manager in the Post Office (1999 
– 2000). He was previously Company 
Secretary from May 2010 to February 2014 
and prior to that was the Acting Group HR 
Director. Jon is a fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants  
and of The Chartered Institute of  
Personnel Development.
Mike Newnham Chief Customer Officer 
Current role Mike was appointed Chief 
Customer Officer in March 2012. 
Previous work history Previously, Mike led 
the Consumer division of Orange in the UK for 
two years. Prior to that, Mike held a number 
of executive board positions at Orange, 
including running the Consumer Sales and 
Service operations and leading Orange’s B2B 
business. Mike joined Orange as the UK CFO. 
Before joining Orange, Mike was a director at 
PricewaterhouseCoopers in the Telecoms, 
Media and Technology practice. Mike has a BA 
Honours degree in Management Science and 
is a qualified Chartered Accountant.
The Group has a focused and committed management team which has driven the return of the Group to profitability and the successful 
implementation of the transformation programme. Working closely with key stakeholders including HM Government, Ofcom, trade unions and 
colleagues, the management team has successfully addressed a number of significant challenges faced by the Group, including enabling the 
Company to gain access to external capital.
42
Royal Mail plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 Shane O’Riordain Managing Director, 
Communications, Strategy, Regulation and 
Pricing. 
Current role Shane was appointed Managing 
Director, Communications in November 2010, 
joining from Lloyds Banking Group. He has 
subsequently assumed responsibility for 
Strategy, Regulation and Pricing.
Previous work history Shane was previously 
Group Corporate Affairs Director at a number 
of FTSE 10 companies (Lloyds Banking Group 
and HBOS), as well as at Halifax and Flemings. 
In these roles, his responsibilities spanned 
customer, business-to-business and City PR, 
issues management, internal communications, 
sponsorship, community investment, and 
government relations at both UK and EU 
levels. Previously, Shane was a diplomat in  
the Irish Diplomatic Service, with postings  
in Dublin, Belfast and Washington DC.  
Shane has a degree in Public Administration, 
Masters’ degrees in Business Administration 
and Organisational Behaviour and is an 
Associate of the Chartered Insurance Institute.
Emily Pang Company Secretary
Current role Emily was appointed as 
Company Secretary in February 2014, in 
addition to her current responsibilities. She 
joined the Group as Chief of Staff for Royal 
Mail Group in April 2011.
Previous work history Prior to joining Royal 
Mail, Emily was at Canada Post where she 
was Executive Chief of Staff, Office of the 
President and CEO and the interim Lead 
Executive for Human Resources. Prior to that 
she worked at CIBC, a major Canadian bank. 
Her experience there spanned Executive 
Director, Business Management in the 
wholesale business; Senior Director, 
Investor and Financial Communications, 
Communications and Public Affairs; as well  
as positions in Finance and Taxation. Emily is  
a Chartered Accountant and holds a Bachelor 
of Commerce and an Executive MBA from the 
joint York University/Northwestern University, 
Kellogg-Schulich Program.
Stuart Simpson Deputy Chief Operations 
Officer
Current role Stuart was appointed Deputy 
Chief Operating Officer in January 2014. Prior 
to this, he was running Operations for the 
West Region of the UK and was the Finance 
Director for UK Operations.
Previous work history Before joining the 
Royal Mail in 2009, Stuart worked in the 
automotive industry for 15 years with senior 
roles in Finance and Strategy, the last ten  
of which were based outside the UK. Roles 
included the FD of SAAB AB and latterly the 
FD for General Motors Global Family Car 
Division. Stuart qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant with Arthur Andersen.
Sue Whalley Chief Operations Officer
Current role Sue joined Royal Mail in 2006 
and was appointed Chief Operations Officer in 
January 2014. She is responsible for leading 
the next phase of the transformation in 
Operations, with specific focus on further 
development of culture, safety, quality and 
efficiency.
Previous work history Before joining Royal 
Mail in September 2006, Sue worked at 
McKinsey and Company for 17 years, the last 
six of which were as a partner in their London 
office. She was also co-leader of McKinsey’s 
European Marketing and retail practices. She 
has an MA from Cambridge University and an 
MBA from Harvard Business School.
43
Royal Mail plc  
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
