 Chairman’s statement
Last year was a year of major achievement for  
Royal Mail, with a good financial and operational 
performance, agreement in principle on a new  
industrial relations framework with the CWU and  
a successful flotation on the London Stock Exchange.
An important year
More than 700,000 members of the public 
bought shares in Royal Mail: the largest single 
extension of private share ownership in the 
UK for some time. I would like to welcome all 
of our new shareholders. I am delighted to say 
they were joined by the overwhelming 
majority of our employees in the UK, who in 
total received free a ten per cent stake in our 
Company. Approximately 15,000 employees 
also chose to buy shares through the 
Employee Priority Offer. We are pleased our 
shares are so widely held, and that alignment 
has been created between the interests of 
shareholders and employees. 
Transforming our business
Our strategy is delivering, as outlined by our 
CEO in her Review on page 8. The initial phase 
of Royal Mail’s comprehensive transformation 
programme across our UK operations is 
largely complete. The vast majority of letters 
are now sorted and sequenced automatically. 
We have introduced new, more flexible 
delivery methods. We have increased 
efficiency and can handle an increasing 
number of parcels. We continue to have a 
strong operational link to Post Office Limited 
and they are our retail partner. GLS’ track 
record of expertise and innovation provides a 
framework for best practice behaviours across 
the Group.
We have agreed a new industrial relations 
framework with the Communication Workers’ 
Union (CWU). It will provide a new way of 
working together, helping to provide industrial 
stability as we seek to transform our business. 
Royal Mail is changing. Expansion in 
e-retailing in the UK and across Europe is 
continuing apace, while addressed letter 
volumes in the UK continue to decline. We are 
increasingly a parcels delivery company. I am 
confident that we will succeed in the 
continuing transformation of our Company.
Our contribution to UK life
We are proud to be the designated provider of 
the Universal Service. Our contribution to the 
UK is significant. For the 2013-14 financial 
year, the Centre for Economics and Business 
Research estimated we made the seventh 
largest contribution to the UK economy of all 
UK corporations. We had a total economic 
impact of more than £10.5 billion, made up of 
direct and indirect contributions to the wider 
economy. This equates to about 0.79 per cent 
of UK GDP. 
Royal Mail’s employees make a substantial 
contribution to charitable organisations. 
Royal Mail holds the Guinness World Record 
for the number of charities supported through 
payroll giving – over 975 charities. Royal Mail 
employees have given an incredible 
£50 million through the scheme since 1989. 
They should be very proud.
We continue to support the British Postal 
Museum and Archive (BPMA) in its 
programme to upgrade and expand its role as 
the curator and exhibitor of the UK’s postal 
heritage. I previously reported on the support 
we have provided to this programme through 
funding and gifting its new exhibition centre, 
Calthorpe House, due to open in 2016. 
Through its fundraising campaign for  
a new Postal Museum and Mail Rail project, 
the BPMA has already secured £21.7 million 
from a wide range of supporters, who  
have provided a firm foundation to this 
exciting project.
Donald Brydon, CBE
Chairman
We are reporting a 
good financial and 
operational 
performance.
06
Royal Mail plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 Safety
The safety of our employees is always our first 
priority. The Board has overseen a continued 
reduction in lost time accidents. We continue 
to focus on initiatives to improve safety on the 
road, as outlined in our Corporate 
Responsibility section. The Anti-social 
Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014 was 
passed on 13 March 2014. It is a significant 
change to the law in relation to dangerous 
dogs, introducing tougher sentences and 
making dog owners liable for attacks on 
private property in England and Wales. For 
our part, if there is a risk from a dog, or any 
other animal, we will suspend delivery until we 
can deliver the mail safely. We will also be 
seeking to ensure prosecution of the owners 
of dogs in the most serious cases.
Our shareholders
We previously communicated our intention to 
pay a dividend of £133 million in July 2014. 
This amount is approximately two-thirds of 
the notional full-year dividend of £200 million 
that the Directors believe they would have 
proposed if the Company had been listed 
throughout this financial year. On the basis 
of our performance, the Board and I are 
delighted to announce that the Board has 
recommended the payment of a final dividend 
of 13.3 pence per share on 31 July 2014, 
subject to approval by our shareholders at our 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 24 July 
2014. 
Board Evaluation Process
The Board and I recognise the importance of 
reviewing Board practices and performance 
on a regular basis. A performance evaluation 
of the Board, its Committees and individual 
Directors takes place on an annual basis with 
the support of the Company Secretary. This 
year’s evaluation was completed during May 
2013 and objectives were set for the Board 
based on the outcomes of the evaluation. 
Following privatisation, a more detailed 
evaluation of the Board, involving the use of 
an external board evaluator, will take place 
during 2014. A performance evaluation of the 
Audit & Risk Committee was conducted by the 
Chairman of the Committee. The Committees 
have also undertaken a review of their terms 
of reference and updates have been made to 
comply with best practice. More information 
can be found in the Corporate Governance 
section (pages 47 to 57).
Thank you
We announced in January 2014 that 
Mark Higson has decided to stand down 
as Managing Director, Operations and 
Modernisation, at this year’s AGM. I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank Mark 
for his huge contribution to the initial phase 
of our transformation programme.
In April 2014, after the reporting period, we 
confirmed Jan Babiak’s resignation from the 
Board. Jan has made a very valuable 
contribution to Royal Mail during an important 
time for our Company. The Board and I would 
like to thank her for her support and counsel.
The flotation of Royal Mail was never a 
foregone conclusion. It took much hard work 
inside and outside Royal Mail to put the 
Company in a position to access external 
capital and ready itself for plc status. The 
continued success of Royal Mail, including  
the recent privatisation, is testament to the 
significant contribution of Moya Greene  
and her team.
I would like to thank all those involved 
in facilitating our flotation. Most importantly, 
I would like to thank all of our people for 
contributing to Royal Mail’s success this year.
Donald Brydon, CBE
Chairman 
6 June 2014
07
Royal Mail plc  
Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
