 2 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Statement by the Chairman
As I am stepping down as Chairman at
the AGM, I have decided to revert to a
more conventional format and make
this separate statement.
The Chief Executive’s statement that
follows this outlines RPC’s progress last
year. Trading was challenging largely
because of input cost pressures,
particularly for polymers. Nevertheless,
RPC reported an improvement in
adjusted operating profit and ended the
year in a strong financial position
despite incurring significant
restructuring and closure costs. RPC
also continued to deliver on its
strategy, growing organically and by
acquisition, and building its market and
technology leadership position in
Europe. In my judgement, these are
excellent results in the circumstances,
and are ahead of the latest market
estimates; they also compare very
favourably with our European industry
peer group.
Unfortunately, despite good strategic
execution and operational
management, there has been only
limited progress in underlying earnings
per share over recent years. This is
primarily due to the unprecedented and
unrelenting rise in polymer costs and to
the difficulties recovering these and
other cost increases from our
customers. Over the last five years,
polymer prices have increased by
approximately 80%. Despite our
improved efficiencies and the strong
growth in specialist products, polymer
costs now represent 33% of our
revenue compared with 25% five years
ago. Price increases over this period
have not kept pace, under-recovering
the rapid escalation in input costs
including polymers. Thankfully, our
focus on improving the product mix
towards more specialised, higher added
value packaging, and at making
significant operational improvements,
has limited the decline in our adjusted
operating profit margin to 1%.
This resilience is a consequence of
RPC’s long-term strategic development.
A little over a decade ago, we were a
UK based company producing mainly
commodity products with no presence
in Continental Europe. Over the last ten
years, we have built, by acquisition and
investment, a very strong Continental
European business which includes a
European leader in specialist rigid
plastics packaging. The rising profits
from our rapidly growing specialist
business have largely offset the
deterioration in the profitability of our
commodity businesses as a result of
these sustained cost pressures. The
latter includes, of course, most of our
original UK businesses.
This brings me to my decision to step
down. Some large shareholders have
over the last few months indicated
their disappointment with the Group’s
recent lack of progress and have
expressed concerns about our strategy,
management and the Board. Whilst I
believe their concerns to be unjustified
and result from the very difficult
trading environment in which RPC has
operated for some time, I and the rest
of the Board accept that over the last
few years there has been limited
progress in underlying earnings per
share and share shareholders’
frustration with the Group’s recent
share price performance. Against this
background, and in order to restore
shareholder confidence, the Board has
launched a strategic review, including a
full property valuation, which will
consider all options available to RPC to
maximise shareholder value. In coming
to this decision I have concluded that
this will be best accomplished by
appointing a new set of independent
eyes in my role.
We are therefore following due process
to find my replacement as quickly as
possible and hope to have the
appointment announced by the
upcoming AGM. This should permit the
new Chairman to participate in the
review process and to act on its
conclusions as appropriate.
The strategic review will be completed
as quickly as possible and the present
strategic direction reconfirmed or a
new direction established. Given
current industry conditions there are an
unusually large number of attractive
businesses potentially available at
reasonable prices. If the strategy
remains to participate in industry
consolidation, RPC must avail itself of
this window of opportunity. For this
reason, and to minimise uncertainty
amongst the management team and
the rest of our employees, urgency is
important.
The last few years have been
exceptionally difficult for the plastics
packaging industry. In my view much
better days are ahead. Growth for
plastics packaging is expected to
continue at rates above Gross Domestic
Product (GDP). Polymer costs appear
set to move in our favour as a result of
substantial new capacity coming on-
stream later this year. There are already
early signs that a shift in the market is
beginning which should lead in time to
better returns from our commodity
businesses. I expect our specialist
businesses to continue to prosper and
the benefits of our recent
rationalisation programmes to be felt
across the Group. While my positive
view of the future has to be tempered
in the short-term by the adverse
impact of the continuing surge in oil
prices, I am convinced that RPC’s
medium and long-term prospects are
excellent.
Lastly, I want to say it has been a
pleasure serving RPC shareholders. I
want to thank my Board colleagues and
the management team for their
support over the years and to wish RPC
every success in the future.
Peter Williams
Chairman
