 05
Overview
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Chairman’s statement
We have a clear strategy in 
place to meet successfully 
the challenges we face in 
our changing marketplace.
Donald Brydon 
Chairman
A year of further significant progress
I wrote last year about the Company’s 
considerable improvement. I am pleased to 
announce a year of further progress. We have 
reported a stronger financial performance, 
helping to safeguard the continued delivery  
of the Universal Service, secure the provision 
of long-term, good quality employment and 
create new opportunities for the Group.  
We have a clear strategy in place to meet 
successfully the challenges we face in our 
changing marketplace.
Moya Greene, our Chief Executive Officer,  
is leading the business with considerable 
energy and focus. Her commitment to deliver 
our business strategy and her determination 
to put the Company in a position where it is 
strong enough to access external capital is one 
of the key drivers of our continuing success.
Our changing business
We have delivered a robust financial and 
operational performance. Behind the 
numbers lies one of the largest transformation 
programmes in the UK in recent history. 
It is greatly to the credit of the senior 
management team and the union leadership 
that this transformation has been carried out 
with a limited impact on our Quality of Service 
– especially when the standards set for Royal 
Mail are the highest of any major European 
country. See page 29 for more information 
on our Quality of Service performance. 
The changing communications market  
has significant implications for our future. 
Letters will always be an important part of 
our business. However, it has been clear  
for some years that we need to diversify  
our revenue base to ensure the continued 
provision of the Universal Service. 
The vast majority of the letters we deliver  
are now sorted and sequenced automatically. 
Our delivery revisions programme is in place, 
ensuring colleagues are able to manage the 
demands of delivering increasing numbers of 
parcels as part of their daily rounds. Our 
progress is testament to the commitment  
of our people to delivering this difficult, 
wholesale change to the way they work.
Royal Mail is adapting to keep pace with this 
competitive market. We need ongoing access 
to external capital. I am confident that our 
Company is capable of rising to the challenge.
Some key developments
The last two years have seen some of the 
most important legislative and regulatory 
changes with respect to postal services in 
the Group’s history. 
In April 2012, Ofcom implemented a new 
regulatory framework. We welcomed this 
change. It recognises that the Universal 
Service Provider must be able to earn  
a reasonable commercial rate of return.  
We are harnessing the benefits of the new 
framework to secure our financial future. 
Today, approximately five per cent of Royal 
Mail revenue is subject to direct price control.
Ofcom has recently concluded its Review  
of Postal Users’ Needs, in which it ruled  
out the need for any major changes to the 
Universal Service. We also welcomed the 
recent clarification by the Regulator of the 
circumstances in which it would be minded  
to intervene in direct delivery competition in 
order to protect the viability of the one-price-
goes-anywhere service. 
The pension transfer in April 2012 gave our 
colleagues who are members of the Royal Mail 
Pension Plan considerably more security with 
respect to the pension benefits they had 
earned up until 31 March 2012. It also 
immediately removed the obligation to make 
cash payments of around £300 million every 
year to address the pension deficit. Of course, 
the cost of continuing to provide one of the 
largest defined benefit pension schemes in the 
UK is material and growing. See page 75 for 
more information. 
At the same time as the pension transfer, Post 
Office Limited formally separated from Royal 
Mail Group Limited. Royal Mail and the Post 
Office have signed a long-term commercial 
agreement to ensure the two companies will 
continue to work together in the future. With 
its extensive network and its important place 
in rural communities, the Post Office is a 
natural partner for Royal Mail as we serve 
communities across the UK. Overview
06
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Chairman’s statement (continued)
Safety
We have made progress on tackling the  
threat dangerous dogs pose to our people. 
Last year, I announced the launch of an 
independent, judge-led inquiry to gather 
evidence on this issue and make 
recommendations for action. In 2012,  
Sir Gordon Langley published his report, 
making clear the necessity for Government 
action and proposals to protect postmen  
and women from this unacceptable hazard. 
In February 2013, I welcomed the 
Government’s announcement that it is 
planning to extend legal protection over dog 
attacks to cover those that take place on 
private property. Since the year end, this 
legislation has been put firmly on the agenda 
through the announcement of the Anti-social 
Behaviour, Crime and Policing Bill in the 
Queen’s Speech in May 2013. Following the 
Langley report’s recommendations, we are 
establishing a process where attacks on our 
people are more likely to be the subject of 
legal action. In addition, we will take a more 
robust approach to the suspension of deliveries 
where dogs pose a danger to our postmen 
and women. 
Our Board 
The Board was pleased to welcome two new 
non-executives to Royal Mail during the year. 
John Allan was appointed a Non Executive 
Director of the Company in January 2013. 
John brings a wealth of strategic, financial and 
marketing experience, including an in-depth 
knowledge of the postal sector. In March 
2013, we announced the appointment of  
Jan Babiak as a Non Executive Director.  
Jan’s extensive IT and regulatory experience 
will further strengthen our Board. 
In September 2012, Dame Jane Newell OBE 
stepped down as Chair of Royal Mail Pension 
Trustees Limited after eight years in the role. 
All involved in the Pension Fund have cause to 
be grateful to her. We welcomed her 
successor, Joanna Matthews, earlier in the 
year and are delighted to see someone with 
such a wealth of experience and knowledge 
take on this important role. 
Our role in the community
The business has continued to develop  
and maintain its role in national culture  
and heritage. Last year I confirmed that  
Royal Mail had granted a lease to give the 
British Postal Museum and Archive (BPMA)  
a new home in Calthorpe House. The new 
exhibition centre on this site continues  
to progress.
I congratulate the BPMA team on securing 
National Lottery funding to support the 
creation of their brand new ‘mail rail’ visitor 
attraction, which will help bring Royal Mail’s 
historic role in the life of the capital to a wider 
national and international audience.
Our place in serving the community goes 
beyond delivering the Universal Service. 
Across the UK, our people play a crucial role, 
both in support of their communities and 
charitable organisations. This year, our 
colleagues chose to appoint Prostate Cancer 
UK as the Group’s charity partner. Through 
our colleagues’ fundraising activities and 
matched funding from the Company, we  
have already raised approximately £800,000 
for this very important cause. We hope  
to raise at least £2 million during our  
two-year partnership.
Royal Mail played an important role in helping 
the UK to support the London 2012 Olympic 
and Paralympic Games. The Games saw Royal 
Mail at its best, enhancing our reputation and 
position in UK culture. Our operational teams, 
especially in London, faced severe challenges 
in delivering to our customers but, with careful 
planning and dedication, continued to deliver 
to our high service standards. Our gold post 
boxes provided a means for local communities 
to mark the success of their athletes. So too 
did the wonderful Olympic and Paralympic 
stamps, which proved very popular with the 
public and the philatelic community. 
Thank you
We have delivered a great deal. The year ahead 
is an important one for Royal Mail and I believe 
we are now in a good position to build on our 
substantial achievements.
I join our Chief Executive Officer in expressing 
my gratitude to the Secretary of State for 
Business, Innovation & Skills, Vince Cable, 
Minister of State for Business and Enterprise, 
Michael Fallon and all their colleagues in 
Government for their continued support.  
Most of all, I would like to pay tribute to all  
my colleagues for their loyalty, commitment 
and conscientiousness. 
Donald Brydon 
Chairman 
Royal Mail Group Limited 
31 July 2013
