 RTC Group plc Annual Report 2013  
 
5 | P a g e 
 
Chairman’s statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 
 
 
I am pleased to present the final report for the year to 31 December 2013. 
 
2013 has been a year of continuing growth both in turnover and operating profit.  As a result we have 
achieved a pleasing improvement in Group operating profits to £871,000 to post a group pre-tax profit of 
£736,000. 
 
A major step forward is that we have done better than forecast and we believe this has resulted in 
enhanced confidence in our future from both customers and investors.  As we demonstrate continuing 
momentum this year, we believe that it will become ever more evident that the underlying trend is up 
rather than just short term recovery.   
 
The restructuring of the Group undoubtedly contributed to our success. This included the strategic 
withdrawal from training and the consequential focus on Ganymede Solutions and ATA Global Staffing 
Solutions. 
 
Following another year of growth in ATA Recruitment in the UK, in one aspect, local branches, we still 
have work to do in rebuilding the national coverage, but we now have contract and permanent in all 
locations including our major vertical markets branch in Derby.  The drive is for growth across the board.   
 
Ganymede Solutions has turned in a remarkable performance in 2013 and is now a serious operator in 
railway and other infrastructure maintenance.  Further enhancement of management and the recent 
recruitment of a rail biased Managing Director positions us well when tendering to enlarge our railway 
footprint for the next five years. 
 
ATA Global Staffing Solutions is making good progress in diversifying away from reliance on our successful 
contract in Afghanistan to encompass broader coverage of the Middle East and Africa. 
 
Our objective is to deliver continuing profitable growth in the above areas.  To provide opportunities for 
acceleration and a fast-track to the delivery of economies of scale, carefully selected acquisitions clearly 
can assist to enhance the relationship between volume growth and earnings per share growth and to 
achieve significant Group advantages operationally. 
 
Capital investment 
Our enhanced trading performance has enabled us to continue carefully focused increases in capital 
expenditure after providing for working capital to service increased turnover.  
 
Dividends 
Your directors are not able to recommend any dividends for 2013.  Our objective is to return to payment 
of dividends as soon as our continued balance sheet  enhancement and profits growth permit and to clear 
the way to that we are seeking authority  from shareholders at the upcoming Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) to transfer share premium account to distributable reserves if that is considered to be 
appropriate.     
 
Overview 
  RTC Group plc Annual Report 2013  
 
6 | P a g e 
 
Chairman’s statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 
 
 
The Group Board 
There have been no changes to the Group Board since the last AGM.  We are giving consideration to 
appointing a second non-executive director in the near future. 
 
 
Outlook 
Our journey from the depths of recession has produced steady progress and we fully expect that to 
continue.  Although there is still work to be done in the regional branch network in ATA Recruitment in 
the UK to re-establish our stronghold in the SME market, we expect to complete that in 2014 and to drive 
for further growth in all three core businesses. We have also undertaken and expect to complete our 
major information technology and systems upgrade in the first half of 2014. Both globally and in our own 
Group there are important challenges but also many exciting opportunities.  We look forward to the 
future with confidence. 
 
Staff 
I should like to thank our staff at all levels for their loyalty, hard work and enthusiasm. 
 
 
 
W J C Douie          18 March 2014 
Chairman          
 
 
 
 
Overview 
 
