 RTC Group plc Annual Report 2013  
 
3 | P a g e 
 
Group at a glance 
 
 
RTC Group plc has three principal subsidiaries engaged in the recruitment of human capital resources and 
the provision of managed services.  ATA Recruitment is a predominantly UK based recruitment business, 
Ganymede Solutions is focused on the supply of blue collar contingent labour and ATA Global Staffing 
Solutions provides managed service solutions for international clients. 
 
In addition, the Group’s headquarters at the Derby Conference Centre provide conferencing and training 
facilities to both local and national clients. 
 
ATA Recruitment  
 
With over fifty years’ accumulated knowledge and experience, ATA Recruitment is one of the UK’s leading 
engineering and technical recruitment consultancies.  ATA Recruitment is strategically focused into key 
operating divisions, to best meet the specific recruitment needs of their clients within vertical market 
sectors.  Additionally the regional hub locations, with teams of dedicated recruitment experts, 
concentrate on permanent and contract opportunities within the engineering and manufacturing 
marketplace. 
 
ATA Recruitment’s regional branch network means they are uniquely placed to deal with both regional 
SME businesses and larger national operations.   ATA Recruitment’s UK consultants are experts within 
their locality, keeping abreast of industry and labour market trends within their regions, ensuring that this 
knowledge is imparted to clients at each stage of the recruitment process.  
 
ATA Recruitment’s brand within the UK Engineering and Technical market place holds credibility and 
value, clients benefit from their partnership approach, with ATA Recruitment strongly positioned to 
attract the highest calibre of candidates for their business. 
 
Industry sectors covered include: 
•General Engineering 
•Manufacturing 
•Transport 
•Built Environment 
•Infrastructure 
•Commercial 
• Construction  
•Sales 
•Supply Chain & Logistics 
•Scientific 
•Chemical 
•Energy & Utilities 
•Defence & Aerospace 
•Facilities Management 
www.ata-recruitment.co.uk 
Overview 
  RTC Group plc Annual Report 2013  
 
4 | P a g e 
 
Group at a glance 
 
 
ATA Global Staffing Solutions  
 
A staffing solutions and resource provider with a track record of delivery in some of the world’s most 
hostile locations, ATA Global Staffing Solutions works with clients across the globe that are focused on 
delivering successful projects into sectors such as aerospace and defence, ports, mining, oil & gas, 
infrastructure and civil engineering. 
 
Working closely with these clients, ATA Global Staffing Solutions can provide contract and permanent 
staffing solutions on an international basis, providing key teams of personnel into new projects and 
supporting on-going large scale project needs. 
 
Typically ATA Global Staffing Solutions recruit across a range of disciplines and skills from operators and 
supervisors, through to senior management level, for roles located in both head offices and those hard to 
fill “remote locations”. 
 
Additionally ATA Global Staffing Solutions recruit for International corporate clients on a contingent and 
retained basis. 
 
Supporting this international operation, ATA Global Staffing Solutions also manage the RTC Group’s Indian 
office.  The India office provides high quality recruitment support to companies looking to recruit staff 
either into or from India, or looking to set up a new venture in this fast growing economy. Using 
experience in India along with the Group’s leading recruitment methodology, the Indian team source 
both permanent and contract candidates. 
www.ata-india.net 
 
Ganymede Solutions  
 
Ganymede Solutions core business is the supply and operation of contingent labour within the Rail 
Industry.  As a Link-up approved supplier, Ganymede Solutions are a leading provider of blue and white-
collar skilled and semi-skilled labour, safety critical track personnel and technical staff on call off and 
temporary term contracts. 
 
Additionally Ganymede Solutions provide and manage contingent labour within the sectors of 
construction, infrastructure, highways, general civil engineering and utilities. 
 
www.ganymedesolutions.co.uk 
 
 
 
Overview 
 
