 RTC Group plc Annual Report 2013  
 
7 | P a g e 
 
Strategy 
 
Chief executive’s strategic review 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 
 
I am pleased to report that 2013 was another year of significant progress for RTC Group.  
Each of our subsidiary businesses made a positive contribution to the Group and established solid 
competitive positions in their respective markets. Our business mix continues to dilute exposure to any 
one particular sector or geographical region and our strong discipline to both pricing and cost control 
has enabled us to maintain and in certain areas increase our profit margins. All of this translates into 
significantly increased profitability, a continued improvement in cash flow, and a stronger and healthier 
balance sheet for the shareholders of our Group. 
In terms of individual subsidiary performance, our three key business units of ATA Recruitment, ATA 
Global Staffing Solutions and Ganymede Solutions all had extremely promising years.  
ATA Recruitment continued to capture new opportunities in both its regional branch network which is 
experiencing renewed growth as the UK’s manufacturing sector continues to emerge from recession and 
in its rail, infrastructure and civil business which secured a number of new contracts with a variety of blue 
chip clients as investment in major projects continues to dominate the UK landscape.  A key factor in the 
growth rate of ATA Recruitment is the number and quality of recruitment consultants employed in the 
business. The investment in headcount which began during 2013 has started to generate additional net 
fee income and a plan to continue and accelerate this growth during 2014 is currently being 
implemented. 
Our international business, ATA Global Staffing Solutions which was established as a result of our contract 
win to support NATO in Afghanistan through Kellogg Brown & Root is now securing business with other 
overseas clients and is developing a solid track record as a multi country provider of both temporary and 
permanent staff. The business is in discussions with a range of international clients in both established 
and emerging market countries and its India operation, in addition to securing indigenous opportunities, 
is working closely with other parts of the Group to provide access to a rich source of highly skilled 
candidates.  
Ganymede Solutions has had an exceptional year both in terms of increased market share and profit 
contribution to the Group. It has continued to enhance its growing reputation as a market leader in the 
provision of blue collar personnel to the rail industry and has secured new business across all areas of 
maintenance, renewal and investment projects with Network Rail and its primary supply chain. In 
addition the business has secured further growth on the London Underground with Tube Lines and 
Transport for London. The business operates in a highly safety critical environment and invests 
significantly in the quality and safety of its workforce. With Network Rail about to enter Control Period 5 
(CP5) and invest approximately £1 billion both directly and indirectly in contingent labour over the next 5 
years, Ganymede has a significant opportunity to secure long term business in the largest rail investment 
programme witnessed in this country. This, coupled with the additional investments committed by 
Transport for London in both its over-ground and underground rail infrastructure, provides Ganymede 
with the opportunity to build a substantial order book for the foreseeable future.   RTC Group plc Annual Report 2013  
 
8 | P a g e 
 
Strategy 
 
Chief executive’s strategic review  
For the year ended 31 December 2013 
 
Our solid performance has also enabled us to make considerable investments in our information 
technology and systems infrastructure. We will shortly have a single, centralised recruitment platform, 
with simplified processes for all group companies to access and this will be complemented by a new 
group wide best in class internet connectivity enabling our consultants to interact much faster with 
clients and candidates. This will provide a clear competitive advantage as speed of response is 
increasingly becoming a key differentiator in the battle for market share. 
This investment is also enabling our Group companies to collaborate and co-operate more closely to 
secure new contracts as many of our customers seek broader relationships with fewer suppliers. Our 
ability to offer turnkey recruitment solutions enables our clients to have a one stop relationship reducing 
their transaction costs and giving them access to a broad range of international candidates many with 
specialist, niche or scarce skills. As demand for both domestic and international employment continues to 
show signs of rebounding from all-time lows, we are cautiously confident that the strategic and structural 
changes we have made over the past few years to return the Group to its original core competence of 
recruitment will continue to enhance value for shareholders as our new business model matures and 
gathers further momentum.  
We have also undertaken a thorough review and restructuring of management over the past eighteen 
months and the senior executive team now overseeing the future of the group has significant industry 
experience. This enables us to react swiftly to the immense changes which are constantly taking place in a 
fast moving global recruitment industry.  We believe that our strategy is solid and our performance 
reflects the quality of the people in the Group at all levels who are responsible for delivering it. We will 
not let our success foster complacency but rather act as a springboard for bigger and better things for the 
Group to pursue.  
Finally, as a board of directors, our results give us many reasons to be proud but none more than in the 
quality of our people who continue to work diligently and professionally in pursuit of their own and our 
collective goals and achievements. The culture we have created within our group is one of our biggest 
assets and a vital source of energy to attract new, high quality, employees as we grow. The whole Group 
rightfully deserves credit for this.  
 
Andy Pendlebury 
Group Chief Executive        18 March 2014 
