 6
Ruspetro plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
CEO’s Statement
“Now that we have a firm strategy in 
place, we are focused on delivery, and 
establishing a track-record which 
demonstrates our subsurface 
understanding, technical knowledge 
and operational capability.”
Having joined the Company as an independent 
Non-executive Board member in August 2013, 
I had the opportunity, along with my Board 
colleagues, to think about the best way to take 
Ruspetro forward. Consequently, I welcomed the 
invitation to take on the role of Chief Executive 
Officer and look forward to implementing the 
revised strategy developed by the Board.
What have we learned?
2013 was the year in which reality bit hard. The 
very aggressive drilling campaign in 2012 and 
2013 did not deliver the expected production, while 
consuming much of our available capital. The simple 
truth is that we underestimated the complexity 
of the development challenge in our Pottymsko-
Inginsky core area. We encountered a lower reservoir 
permeability range than expected (0.5–1.0mD), 
as well as greater structural complexity and more 
limited reservoir continuity. Along with these issues, 
delayed implementation of water injection caused 
a large pressure sink to form in the reservoir.
Our first priority has been to stabilise production 
from our existing wells. This has been a real success 
story. We have scaled up the waterflood operations 
by converting a number of producing wells to water 
injection and have seen a very positive response in 
terms of slowing the previous production decline.
Perhaps the most important technical decision we 
have made is to switch to a development concept 
based on multiple fractured horizontal production 
wells. In addition to the improved economics 
of these wells, they critically mitigate by their 
design the observed reservoir heterogeneity.
In order to further advance our understanding 
of the reservoir geology and develop complex 
horizontal wells, the Company began a search 
for a technical partner, and was delighted to 
sign a technical partnership with Schlumberger. 
Through this agreement, Schlumberger will 
provide horizontal well designs which capitalise on 
their world-wide experience with this technology 
and will support Ruspetro in the operational 
execution of these wells. Subject to having the 
necessary funding in place, we also consider 
to improve our subsurface understanding next 
winter by shooting additional 3D seismic in areas 
previously only covered by 2D seismic data.
We therefore believe that we understand what 
went wrong in the past and that we can build 
a profitable business to repair our balance 
sheet and create shareholder value.
John Conlin
Chief Executive Officer  7
Ruspetro plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Pottymsko-Inginsky Pad 23b development area
Corporate strategy moving forward
Now that we have a firm strategy in place, we are 
focused on delivery, and establishing a track-record 
which demonstrates our subsurface understanding, 
technical knowledge and operational capability.
Our immediate objectives are to:
• Build production in 2014 through enhanced 
waterflooding of the core Pottymsko-Inginsky (‘PI’) 
area and an initial horizontal well development of 
three areas adjacent to the PI core area.
• Create a horizontal well development toolbox of 
well designs and execution strategies.
• Appraise and mature a ranked inventory of 
development targets for drilling post 2014, outside 
the core area.
We have successfully positioned a rig on Pad 23b 
from which we can develop patterns north west of 
our existing producing area. In early April 2014, 
we spud our first multistage fractured horizontal 
well on the Pottymsko-Inginsky licence block. Our 
strategy will comprise of drilling an initial series of 
horizontal production wells followed by a number of 
vertical wells designed in due course to be converted 
to water injectors after a period of test production.
An important characteristic of this plan is that, 
from this pad, we can alternate drilling between 
areas thereby giving us the breathing space to 
assess well performance in each area before 
a follow-up well is drilled. Secondly, keeping 
the rig on one pad gives us the opportunity to 
drive significant improvements in drilling and 
completion operations over the programme.
Medium-term activity levels will be tuned to 
delivering production levels which are aimed  
at underwriting capital investment needs and  
debt servicing.
Longer-term opportunities
Palyanovo
Our significant gas reserve base in the Palyanovo 
licence block is a valuable asset which we continue 
to assess opportunities to monetise. We have a 
market and are currently in discussion with potential 
joint venture partners to develop the necessary 
processing facilities. That being the case we closed-in 
the field at the beginning of 2014 to conserve gas.
Bazhenov
Russia’s unconventional resource base remains an 
area of interest particularly following the Mineral 
Extraction Tax relief implemented in 2013. We 
are estimated to have 3.5 billion barrels of 3C oil 
in place across our 300,000 acres of Bazhenov 
shale. Given the attractive fiscal incentives, we 
anticipate a collaborative effort within the industry 
to initiate the important first steps towards 
commercialisation of this potential giant resource.
John Conlin
Chief Executive Officer
