 4
Ruspetro plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Chairman’s Statement
2013 has been a year of change for Ruspetro – change 
in strategy, team and approach. We believe that the 
transformation we have undergone is for the better, 
but we cannot deny that it has been a difficult year. 
We are emerging from these changes stronger, more 
focused and on a better footing for the future.
Since our performance has not been as successful 
as initially planned, our duty to shareholders was 
to determine how to set Ruspetro on the right 
track again. We felt it was time to pause and review 
our operational performance and determine an 
effective strategy for the successful development 
of Ruspetro’s large hydrocarbon assets. The 
discussions led to a number of Board changes. 
I was elected Chairman of the Board and will 
continue my active involvement in the business, 
both in the areas of strategy, and our engagement 
with Russia’s fiscal and legislative framework.
In order to develop the business further, John 
Conlin was appointed as Chief Executive Officer 
by the Board in December 2013. He is not only 
an experienced E&P executive, but he is also a 
petroleum engineer. Most recently he was Chairman 
of Aurelian Oil & Gas, a small independent E&P 
company which recently merged with San Leon 
Energy. Prior to his move to the independent 
sector, he spent 28 years at Shell in various senior 
management and operational positions, including 
the role of President of Sakhalin Energy in Moscow, 
in the late Nineties. With his extensive experience 
of the industry, John has a clear strategy to lead 
Ruspetro through a successful development phase to 
production. These he articulates in his CEO report.
The geological and operational expertise we are 
building in-house is complemented at Board 
level by significant input from a new Non-
executive Director, Maurice Dijols. Maurice was 
formerly President of Schlumberger Russia and 
is currently a Non-executive Director of IGSS 
(the largest land seismic company in Russia) 
and Eurasia Drilling Company (the largest 
drilling company in Russia). His experience 
in the Russian market and the practicalities of 
operating in Western Siberia is unrivalled, and 
thus he has closed a key gap in our team.
In our commitment to the highest corporate 
governance standards, we have also made a 
number of strong appointments to the Board, 
appointing Kirill Androsov and Frank Monstrey 
as Non-executive Directors. Mr Monstrey’s 
track-record in delivering production growth in 
Kazakhstan and Kirill’s deep knowledge of the 
Russian energy market further strengthen our 
Board. The Board re-organisation along with the 
various committees was completed in early 2014. 
We are now confident we have strong leadership to 
support the implementation of the agreed strategy.
Alexander Chistyakov
Executive Chairman
“While the past year has been 
undeniably challenging, I believe that 
Ruspetro emerges from it with a clear 
set of strategic decisions which will 
allow the management team in place 
to deliver growth.”  5
Ruspetro plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
The team in place is now empowered to lead Ruspetro 
into a new phase which will reflect a different 
approach to geological challenge, technology 
application and planning. We are working to build 
a well-rounded and technically advanced team, 
and with the support of Schlumberger, to develop 
the capability to successfully design and execute 
the complex horizontal wells which we believe will 
unlock the potential of our substantial resources.
Ruspetro’s immediate business plan objectives 
are both to develop and sustain its current oil 
production, including through the initiation of 
horizontal drilling. Changes in the fiscal environment 
in which we operate have significantly improved 
our production economics. In July 2013, the 
Russian Government signed a law to reduce Mineral 
Extraction Tax (‘MET’) with effect from 1 September 
2013, which has significantly enhanced the cash 
flow generation from our existing oil production. 
This applies to oil produced from hard-to-recover 
reservoirs, such as our Bazhenov and Tyumen 
formations which have low permeability. Under 
this legislation, virtually all the Group’s current 
production qualifies for an 80% reduction in MET.
These fiscal policy changes have made it realistic to 
consider the development of our vast shale resources 
in the Bazhenov formation. We believe, along 
with a large number of renowned global experts, 
that the Bazhenov could drive the new wave of 
investment in unconventional resources in Russia 
from around the world. While it is true to say that 
the successes in the US have not been replicated as 
quickly elsewhere in the world, there are practical 
reasons to believe that significant early progress 
can be anticipated in Russia. These include the scale 
of the resources, the advantageous geology, the 
significant pre-existing infrastructure in areas of 
low-density population, access to technical expertise 
and, importantly, a favourable fiscal regime.
In order to implement a sound strategy for the 
development of its large hydrocarbon assets, 
Ruspetro will begin drilling from existing financial 
resources, but we acknowledge additional funds 
will be required to implement the full development 
programme. Initial drilling has been facilitated 
by the successful restructuring during 2013 of our 
existing medium-term credit facility with Sberbank 
as well as of our shareholder loans. Additionally, 
the conclusion of a forward oil sale agreement with 
Glencore in 2013 and which has been renewed in 
2014 is an important liquidity management initiative.
The continued development of Ruspetro’s extensive 
hydrocarbon resources will be funded through a 
combination of reinvested cash flow and additional 
financial resources. The Board is also considering 
a range of potential strategic transactions.
While the past year has been undeniably challenging, 
I believe that Ruspetro emerges from it with a 
clear set of strategic decisions which will allow the 
management team in place to deliver growth. I 
would like to thank all Ruspetro’s employees who 
have shown dedication through these difficult times 
and who have worked hard to support myself and 
the executive team. My consideration also goes to 
other Board members who have and will I am sure 
continue to make a sustained valuable contribution 
to helping Ruspetro deliver on its potential promises.
Finally and most importantly, on behalf of the Board 
and management, I would like to thank all our 
shareholders for their continued support during what 
has been a challenging year for the Company. As we 
set out in this report, Ruspetro is now in a far better 
position to deliver value for all its stakeholders.
Alexander Chistyakov
Executive Chairman
