 Chief Executive’s review
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Executive’s review 7
SABMiller has once again delivered good
results. Against a challenging background,
we have reaped the benefits of a clear,
consistent strategy and operational 
strengths built up over many years. 
In the face of weakening consumer demand,
we have maintained like-for-like lager
volumes and lifted group revenue by 9% 
on an organic, constant currency basis while
also winning share in many markets. Through
strong pricing and cost management, we
have raised our underlying EBITA by 5%
on an organic, constant currency basis,
capitalising on our strong local brands and
efficient operating practices. However, the
strengthening of the US dollar against our
major operating currencies led to a reported
EBITA of US$4,129 million, the same level
as the prior year.
We measure our progress against a range 
of key performance indicators. Some of the
most important are listed in the table on the
following page along with our performance 
in each case. The Chief Financial Officer
discusses our progress against these KPIs 
in more detail on pages 32 to 37. 
A challenging year
I stated in last year’s report that the coming
12 months would be difficult. Given that 
our growth over the previous two years had
been almost double our normal expectations, 
we knew it would be hard to maintain the
trajectory – particularly with the growing
economic pressures on consumers. We
knew, too, that rising commodity prices
would lead to sharp increases in the cost 
of brewing materials. 
Despite these challenges, we were able to
deliver a creditable set of results. This can be
attributed both to the resilience of the beer
category and to SABMiller’s strengths within
it. Beer as a whole continues to take a rising
share of the alcohol market in emerging
economies. We ourselves have benefited
from our diverse spread of businesses, our
strong market positions, a portfolio of leading
local beers with strong brand equities 
and our focus on operational discipline 
and excellent sales and marketing.
Review of operations
In Latin America, efforts of recent years 
to raise the appeal of beer as a category, 
to build our brands and brand portfolios and
to enhance our sales activities have resulted
in beer taking a rising share of the alcohol
market. In Peru and Ecuador a favourable
trading environment and good market
execution boosted lager volumes in both
these markets, but the economic slowdown
impacted sales in Colombia and Central
America. As a result, organic lager volumes
for the region grew by 1% overall. With
continued robust pricing and greater
productivity offsetting higher commodity
costs, the region’s EBITA margin improved 
by 100 bps and EBITA grew by 11% on an
organic, constant currency basis.
In Europe, organic lager volumes were in 
line with last year as economic conditions
deteriorated sharply in the second half,
putting pressure on consumers’ disposable
income. Against this background, the group
achieved good market share gains in Poland,
Romania and the UK with strong momentum
behind key brands. Revenue per hectolitre
was up 6%, but strong pricing and increased
efficiencies did not entirely offset higher input
costs. As a result, reported EBITA declined
by 1% and organic, constant currency EBITA
fell 5%. In view of the economic downturn,
the European operation has restructured
some of its businesses to cut costs. 
Profits grew strongly in North America
with a good earnings contribution from 
Miller Brewing Company in the first quarter
and a strong financial performance from 
the MillerCoors joint venture since it started
operations on 1 July 2008. EBITA grew 22%
for the full year assisted by robust pricing 
and the synergies resulting from rapid, early
integration of the businesses. Domestic sales
to retailers were down slightly for the nine
months’ trading as MillerCoors. However, 
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Graham Mackay, Chief Executive
The year’s results demonstrate the value of our diverse spread
of businesses, our strong market positions, the strength of our
brand portfolios and our focus on operational excellence.  Chief Executive’s review continued
8 Chief Executive’s review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009
the trend returned to growth in the final
quarter, led by improved performances from
Coors Light, Miller Lite and Miller High Life
and continued strong growth in MGD 64,
Keystone Light, Blue Moon and Peroni
Nastro Azzurro. 
In Africa, our strategy of broadening our
brand portfolio with premium and affordable
offerings contributed to a 10% growth in
organic volumes. Tanzania increased its 
lager volumes by 4% with strong growth in
the Eagle brand. In Angola, both soft drinks
and lager performed well after significant
investment in new capacity. Mozambique’s
lager volumes were marginally ahead of last
year’s. In Botswana, the introduction of a
30% levy on alcohol in November 2008
resulted in an 8% decline in lager volumes 
for the full year. A major capital expenditure
programme continues in Africa with a
brewery in southern Sudan recently
completed and three further breweries
scheduled to open in the current year. 
In Asia, lager volumes increased by 4%
organically in China. The Snow brand, now
one of the largest beer brands in the world 
by volume, enjoyed strong growth of 19%.
Although margins in China remain slender,
we’re pleased that the price increases put
through at the end of the prior year seem 
to be holding. Volumes in India grew by 
5% despite continued regulatory issues,
particularly in the key market of Andhra
Pradesh. EBITA for Africa and Asia 
combined grew by 16% on an organic,
constant currency basis. 
In South Africa, lager volumes were 
2% down on the prior year as consumer
spending weakened, sales were hit by new
provincial legislation in the Western Cape 
and the high-selling Easter period fell later 
in the calendar year. Revenue growth of
11% on a constant currency basis reflected
strong pricing in both lager and soft drinks.
However, this was not enough to offset
higher input costs and EBITA margin
consequently declined. In a competitive
Our strategic priorities Key Performance Indicators
We focus on four strategic priorities relating, respectively, to 
our global spread of businesses, our brand portfolios within
each market, the performance of our local operations and 
the possibilities inherent in our global scale. Key performance
indicators monitor our progress in each case.
Creating a balanced and
attractive global spread 
of businesses
Our geographical spread of operations
enables us to capture growth in total
volumes in the developing markets, and
value growth as consumers around the
world trade upwards from economy to
mainstream and from mainstream to
premium brands.
Organic lager volume growth
0% 2009
Group revenue growth
(organic, constant currency)
9% 2009
Developing strong, relevant
brand portfolios in the local
market 
Our aim is to develop an attractive brand
portfolio that meets consumers’ needs in
each of our markets. In many markets,
because the growth is fastest at the top
end, we’ve been focusing on our local
premium brands, such as Cusqueña in Peru.
Growth in Peruvian premium 
brand Cusqueña volumes
59% 2009
Growth in premium volume 
in our Latin American business
27% 2009
Constantly raising the
performance of local
businesses
Good operational performance has
always been an SABMiller strength. 
While operational standards are 
already high we are continually striving 
to push them higher, as evidenced by
growing EBITA on an organic, constant
currency basis.
EBITA margin was impacted by rising
input costs which exceeded group
revenue growth and cost efficiencies. 
EBITA growth 
(organic, constant currency)
5% 2009
Group EBITA margin
16.3% 2009
Leveraging our global scale
We are leveraging our global scale to 
grow the business. Our business platform
enables us, for example, to distribute 
our international premium brands and
build our regional brands. In addition 
we are using our scale to transfer skills,
methods and our operational performance
and efficiency.
Group revenue CAGR for 
the last three years
14% 2009
International growth of Peroni 
Nastro Azzurro volumes
17% 2009 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Executive’s review 9
environment, we launched two new 
premium lager brands and a premium,
dry, apple-flavoured lager and intensified 
our sales and marketing. Constant currency
EBITA fell 8% with reported EBITA down
26% – the difference due to the weakening
rand exchange rate against the dollar.
Strategic priorities
Our performance in a difficult year underlines
the continuing relevance and success of our
four strategic priorities. 
The first, the creation of a balanced and
attractive spread of businesses which now
extends across 75 countries on six continents,
has served us well in that not all markets
have suffered from the economic crisis at 
the same time or to the same extent. And 
not only are we widely spread, we’re deeply
rooted: in more than 80% of the countries
where we have a brewing presence, our
businesses are number one or number 
two in the market. 
Our business portfolio gives us good
representation in emerging markets where
beer growth rates are projected to outstrip
the global average of 3%*. There are sound
reasons for these forecasts.
With populations still growing, the
demographics in developing countries are 
in our favour. Disposable incomes are likely
to keep rising and consumers continue to
shift from informal or home-brewed alcohol,
which represents some 50% of global
consumption, to commercially produced
alcohol. As beer is the most affordable,
and moderate, commercial alternative to
local, subsistence alcohol, it tends to be
the first choice over higher priced spirits
and is therefore gaining share within the
total alcohol market. Indeed, if Africa’s
per capita consumption of commercial
beer were to match that of South Africa,
the African beer market would be nine
times bigger than it is today.
* Compound annual growth rates as forecast 
by Plato Logic, January 2009.
While our global weighting towards emerging
markets offers strong potential for the
medium term, we also benefit from our bias
in the developed world towards markets
where there’s opportunity to increase our
share in terms of value. One example is the
USA which is the world’s biggest profit pool
for the beer industry. 
After building a global portfolio of businesses,
our second strategic priority is to develop
strong, relevant brand portfolios within 
each market. With over 200 brands at our
disposal, our ability to cover all price points
and consumer needs from economy to
premium beers, allows us to benefit whichever
way the market moves. As consumers in
recent years have aspired to move up the
price scale, we’ve met their demand for local
and international premium brands. But we
also benefit from our strong presence in 
the mainstream segment where SABMiller
brands are typically number one or two in 
the market. The mainstream segment is
generally where the greatest profits lie and
we’ve invested heavily in recent years to
build and maintain our leadership there. 
In Poland, for example, we’ve built the
regional Tyskie brand into the country’s
leading, national, mainstream beer and 
the most profitable brand in the country.
In Romania, we’ve carefully nurtured the
strong local heritage of Timisoreana to lead
the mainstream there. In South Africa, we’ve
upgraded the image of the entire mainstream
category by introducing 430 million restyled
returnable bottles to the benefit of brands
such as Castle and Hansa Pilsener. With
these and other investments (some of 
which are described on pages 12 to 31),
we’re rejuvenating our mainstream offerings
around the world. 
Nor are we neglecting the economy
segment. In Africa, we’re increasing the 
use of locally grown crops such as sorghum 
and cassava to produce affordable brands
along the lines of the highly successful Eagle.
In so doing, we’re both capturing the trend
from home-brewed beers to more aspirational
commercial brands and providing economic
opportunities for local farmers. In the quest
for affordability, we’re also introducing smaller
bottle sizes, as with the Aguila brand in
Colombia, and making draught beers more
available in countries such as Mozambique
and Botswana.
Our investments over many years are proving
their value in the powerful equity that many 
of our local brands now enjoy. In countries
such as Poland, Romania, Peru, the UK and
Uganda, we’ve been able to increase prices
and still gain market share. 
19%
growth of the Snow brand in China
Maintaining full brand portfolios in so many
different markets is not easy and we believe
we have an industry-leading capability in this
area. That said, we still have more to learn.
Through the framework and processes set
out in the SABMiller Marketing Way and 
now being rolled out across the group, 
we’re continuing to identify the tastes and
preferences of consumer segments and to
align our portfolios with the growth
opportunities in each market.
Priority number three is to keep raising 
the operational performance of our local
businesses. This is an area of focus for 
our local management and has helped
SABMiller to maintain its position as a 
low-cost operator. As a consequence, 
we have not felt it necessary in the recent
past to launch large-scale, one-off, cost-
cutting programmes. 
Nevertheless, given the economic
challenges, we’re looking hard at all 
our costs with a view to making further
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
We benefit from a balanced and attractive spread of businesses
spanning 75 countries on six continents. At the same time,
we’re seeking to develop strong, relevant brand portfolios to
meet the needs of consumers within each market. Chief Executive’s review continued
10 Chief Executive’s review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009
Principal risks
The principal risks facing the group, which have been considered by the board, are detailed below. 
The group’s well developed risk management process is detailed in the Corporate Governance section
and our financial risks are discussed in the Chief Financial Officer’s review and in note 22 to the
consolidated financial statements.
Risk description
The global brewing industry is expected to continue to consolidate.
Participation in industry consolidation provides opportunities to
enter growth markets, and to create value from scale benefits
including applying the group’s best operating practices. There is a
risk that failure to participate in attractive value-adding transactions
may inhibit our ability to grow and exploit scale benefits. There is
also a risk that expected benefits from participating in consolidation
and integrating acquisitions may not be captured or may be
inadequate, or that we may not fully leverage our scale across
business operations.
Our expertise in marketing, together with our strong and growing
brand portfolios, position us well to benefit from changing consumer
preferences in both developed and developing markets. However,
markets continue to evolve and competitor activity is increasing.
Should the group fail to ensure the relevance and attractiveness 
of its brands, and continuously improve its marketing and related
sales capability, there is the risk that opportunities for profitable
growth may not be realised.
The group now operates on six continents and it is essential to
develop and retain a global management capability. Our global
growth potential could be jeopardised should we fail to develop
and maintain a sufficient cadre of talented management or to
capture shared learnings and leverage expertise through effective
management practices.
In many countries, debates continue over the need for regulatory
constraints and restrictions on alcohol products, taxes and duties.
There is a risk that regulatory authorities when making impositions
on beer do not recognise the positive contribution of our
businesses, and effective ways of addressing health and social
concerns. In affected countries, our ability to grow profitably and
contribute to our local communities could be adversely affected.
The supply of, and demand for, certain brewing and packaging raw
materials have been out of balance during recent years which has
led to supply shortages and price volatility of key raw material
inputs. Supply pressures have now eased and prices have fallen,
but should the group fail to ensure an adequate supply of brewing
and packaging raw materials at competitive prices, there is the risk
that margins could fall.
The global economy is facing a widespread recession with GDP
projected to fall in 2009. Consumer demand has softened in many
countries in which we operate, and in some of these countries
currency weakness has exacerbated the reduction. The availability
of funding in the capital markets is less predictable and more
expensive. We are responding to the changed conditions, but
given the uncertainties in the global economic outlook, there 
is a risk that our plans and responses may not be adequate.
Mitigation
■ Our existing portfolio of businesses which spans six continents
gives the group access to growth markets and already provides
scale benefits.
■ Potential transactions are subject to rigorous analysis to assess
potential to create value.
■ Application of proven integration processes and procedures 
are applied to deliver expected returns.
■ Programmes to leverage scale, including in areas such as
procurement, are continuously being enhanced.
■ Ongoing focus on building our marketing and sales 
capabilities through continued roll-out and enhancement 
of the Marketing Way.
■ Continually ensuring that our brand equities are strong 
and fresh through compelling marketing programmes 
and relevant innovation.
■ Consistent evaluation of our brand portfolios in every 
market ensuring that they adequately cover current 
and future growth opportunities.
■ Well developed global strategic people resourcing and 
talent management processes. 
■ A strong culture of accountability, empowerment and 
personal development.
■ Standardisation of key processes and best practices across 
the group through the roll out of the SABMiller Ways.
■ Rigorous adherence to the principle of self regulation 
backed by appropriate policies and management review.
■ Engagement with government and thought leaders on 
alcohol-related issues.
■ Investment to expand positively the economic impact of 
our businesses in local communities in partnership with
governments and NGOs.
■ Contractual agreements with suppliers covering multiple 
time horizons, combined with an active hedging programme.
■ Programmes to support development of local sourcing for
certain key commodities, such as barley in Africa, India and
Latin America.
■ Preparation of contingency plans based on various scenarios.
■ Actions to restructure operations in certain countries to reflect the
current and expected deterioration in local economic conditions.
■ Maintaining and extending our local industry leadership positions
through appropriate investments in our brands, a focus on local
execution and development of commercial capability.
■ Increased focus on cash flow management. SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Executive’s review 11
incremental cuts to meet local circumstances.
We’re re-examining all capital expenditure
and applying stringent criteria that reflect
the risks and opportunities in each country.
We have also restructured a number of our
businesses, particularly in Latin America and
Europe. In Poland, for example, one depot
and two packaging lines at the recently
acquired Browar Belgia have been closed
and 100 job losses announced. In the
Czech Republic, we are shedding 150 jobs
to improve productivity.
In North America, the integration of
MillerCoors’ business processes and
systems will streamline costs and make for
faster decision making. The project to have
every Coors and Miller brand produced at all
breweries across the combined network is
also proceeding well with more than 60% of
the planned production relocations completed
in the financial year. Through these and other
projects, the company expects to realise
US$128 million in synergies by 30 June 2009,
exceeding its original goal of US$50 million
for the first 12 months of operations. The
overall target, well within reach, is a per
annum saving of US$500 million by the 
third year of operation.
As well as restructuring and saving costs,
we’re honing our skills in dealing with the
retail trade – another discipline where we
believe we can differentiate ourselves 
from the competition and gain competitive
advantage. As the retail sector evolves and
becomes more complex and demanding,
we’re developing new and better ways to 
get the right products to the right outlets
down the right channels – and doing so 
from an advantageous position, thanks 
to the strength of our brands among 
our consumers. 
Here again, the SABMiller Marketing Way
and other global initiatives are improving 
our performance and helping to spread
best practice across the group. Our success
in Ecuador (see page 15) shows how we’ve
raised the game by rethinking our distribution
strategy and effectively implementing a
new model.
The fourth of our strategic priorities is to 
gain maximum value from our global scale 
by efficiently transferring skills and proven
ways of working throughout the organisation.
Among other projects, we’re examining best
practice in respect of back office processes,
and looking to reduce costs through shared
services. The process is already under way at
the regional level and we intend to implement
it globally in due course. We’re also moving
towards a more centralised procurement
function to make our sourcing and supply
chain more efficient. 
While the application of these four strategic
priorities has delivered excellent financial
results over the last few years, we continue
to refine them as circumstances change. 
We have, for example, been working on
a series of initiatives to sharpen our focus
and capabilities in the commercial area
and will roll these out in the coming year.
Addressing risks
The current economic crisis makes it even
more important to keep scrutinising the 
risks facing the business. We know that risks
present opportunities as well as threats, and
we aim to maximise the former and minimise
the latter in a way that generates the best
return for our shareholders. Working to a 
well developed risk management process
(see page 55), we continue to identify and
monitor the principal risks to the business
and deal with them appropriately. The main
operational risks we face are summarised
opposite while financial risks are discussed
on pages 37 and 105 to 111. 
Looking ahead
Despite the immediate challenges our
medium-term prospects remain strong. 
While there is little we can do to influence the
macro-economic environment at the present
time, there is much that remains within our
control – not least, to keep building our local
brands, to develop the beer category and to
increase the share of beer within the alcohol
market in developing countries. SABMiller’s
long experience and inbuilt resilience provide
strong grounds for confidence in the testing
year we undoubtedly face. 
Graham Mackay Chief Executive
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
We continue, consistently and relentlessly, to tighten our
efficiency and raise the performance of each local business.
We also seek to gain maximum value from our global scale 
by transferring skills and proven ways of working across 
the organisation.
