 Graham Mackay
Chief Executive
10 Chief Executive’s review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010
Contributing to our success this year have been our inbuilt
resilience, our strong operational management and a strategy 
that serves the business equally well in good times and in bad.
Chief Executive’s review
I ended last year’s report by pointing to a testing period ahead. So it has proved. Nonetheless,
our inbuilt resilience and strong operational management have produced another successful year.
Our volume performance was solid and compared well with that of our competitors with share
gains in some of our key markets. On an organic basis, lager volumes for the year were level
with the prior year while soft drinks volumes grew 2% on the same basis.
Firm pricing, an improving sales mix and a tight grip on costs delivered organic, constant
currency EBITA growth of 6%. The strength of our leading local brands stood us in good 
stead, supporting a 4% rise in group revenue on an organic, constant currency basis with 
all regions increasing their revenue per hectolitre. We managed costs even more tightly,
protecting profitability and, in some cases, funding increased marketing investment. EBITA
margin was up 30 basis points to 16.7% on the same basis.
Review of operations
The most pleasing performer this year was Latin America where, despite difficult economic
and trading conditions, our efforts to upgrade the beer category, build our brands and brand
portfolios and win in the marketplace delivered 3% growth in lager volumes. Growth resumed
in Colombia towards the end of the year and EBITA margin rose 270 basis points. In Peru, 
we improved our mix and pushed back the competition to regain market share. Ecuador grew
robustly, underpinned by the further development of sales and distribution. Organic, constant
currency EBITA for the region grew 17%.
Against a backdrop of severe economic conditions across the region, lager volumes in Europe fell
5%. Nevertheless, we gained or held market share in Poland, Romania, the Czech Republic
and Russia. We were particularly pleased to increase our share of the premium market across
our European business – testimony to many years’ work in building brand equities. Robust
pricing, largely implemented in the prior year, along with cost efficiencies and the benefits of
business restructuring contributed to constant currency EBITA growth of 4% and an organic,
constant currency margin expansion of 60 basis points. SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Chief Executive’s review 11
North America delivered EBITA growth of 7% compared
with a prior year which included one quarter’s results from
the Miller Brewing Company. Despite difficult economic
conditions, MillerCoors produced pro forma
1
EBITA
growth of 13%. This was driven by favourable pricing,
incremental synergy benefits of US$248 million and
further savings in marketing and fixed costs, partly offset
by pressures on commodity costs and lower volumes
over which to spread fixed costs. On a pro forma basis,
domestic sales to wholesalers and retailers were both
down 2%.
6%
EBITA growth (organic, constant currency)
Beer markets in Africa were broadly resilient and lager
volumes rose by 6%. Our strategy of widening our 
brand portfolios produced strong growth in the premium
category and further share gains in the affordable segment.
Investments in new breweries and extra capacity began
to deliver further growth. The opening of a new brewery in
Mozambique, for example, contributed to sales growth of
11% while Uganda expanded its capacity and saw volumes
rise by 24%. We benefited from an excise tax reduction 
in Zambia but saw sales in Botswana negatively affected
by the social levy on alcohol introduced in November
2008. While organic, constant currency EBITA grew 
by 4%, margins declined to 20.8% as a result of higher
raw material costs caused by the depreciation of some
local currencies and higher fixed costs linked to recently
commissioned brewery facilities and supply chain difficulties
in Angola.
In Asia, good growth in lager volumes in China, Australia
and Vietnam, offset by declines in India, resulted in a 7%
organic increase in lager volumes. China led the way with
growth of 10% and further share gains in a growing market
for its Snow brand. CR Snow’s share of the market is
estimated to exceed 20%. Volumes in India fell 14% with
some loss of market share due to regulatory issues and
higher taxes in some states. Conditions improved, however,
towards the end of the year. Vietnam and Australia both
performed well.
Despite increasing competition, SAB’s lager volumes 
in South Africa were only 1% below the prior year. 
Soft drinks volumes were hit by the difficult economic
environment and poor weather with sales falling 1%. 
The business stepped up its investment in sales and
marketing and was rewarded with higher volumes and 
a better competitive performance. This investment was
partly funded by a reduction in costs in non-market-facing
activities which delivered savings of almost US$80 million.
Margins declined modestly due to the lower volumes,
higher input costs and the increase in investment.
Organic, constant currency EBITA was up 2%.
Our strategy
Our performance this year is largely the result of sticking
to a strategy honed over many years and designed to
advance the business both in good times and in bad. 
We measure our progress against our strategic priorities
using a range of key performance indicators. These are
listed in the table on pages 22 to 23, along with our
progress against each one.
As markets evolve and the consumer and competitive
landscape changes, we review our various strategic
priorities and adjust the relative emphases between 
them – as indicated below.
Under our first priority, creating a balanced and attractive
global spread of businesses, we believe we’ve emerged
strongly from the recent industry consolidation. From 19%
in 2000, the world’s top four brewers now account for
just under 50% of the market. Having actively participated
in the process – and sometimes led it – we’re now
present in 75 countries on six continents. And as well as
being widely spread, we’re well rooted: 94% of our lager
volume comes from countries in which we have either
number one or number two market share positions.
A further strength of our geographic portfolio is its
weighting towards developing countries. Over the last
three years some 80% of group EBITA was attributable 
to developing or emerging markets. With populations in
emerging markets set to expand rapidly in the period to
2015, lager volumes are projected to show a compound
annual growth rate of over 2% in more than half the countries
in our portfolio and to exceed 5% in over a quarter of our
countries. These trends provide favourable momentum
that good management can build on and accelerate.
20%
Market share in China
Given that consolidation within the global industry is 
well advanced, our emphasis this year has been less on
adding new countries and more on realising the potential
of the portfolio we have. Where demand is growing, we
continue to add brewing capacity. As the Chairman has
stated, the past year has seen a spate of acquisitions 
and new construction in China and Africa. Our Chinese
associate, CR Snow, has bought three more breweries
and built a further four – the greenfield projects reinforcing
an already strong presence in Jilin, Inner Mongolia and
Zhejiang and taking the business into the important
Shanghai province. In Africa in the past year, we’ve
invested in new breweries in Tanzania, Mozambique,
Angola and Southern Sudan and carried out expansions
and upgrades in Uganda and Zambia.
Overview Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
We’re present in 75 countries on six continents. We’re also well rooted:
94% of our lager volume comes from countries in which we’re either
number one or number two in terms of our market share.
Business review
1 MillerCoors’ pro forma
is defined on page 29
note 3. 12 Chief Executive’s review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010
As industry consolidation slows, competitive advantage depends
increasingly on realising the potential of our business portfolio. 
Hence our emphasis on organic growth through understanding 
the consumer and constantly enhancing our brand portfolios.
Chief Executive’s review continued
On the African continent we’re also looking at products
other than beer where it makes sense to do so. As one 
of the world’s largest bottlers of Coca-Cola, we have 
long experience of managing both beer and soft drinks 
in markets where the cost and operational benefits make 
it advantageous. This year we’ve pushed the strategy
further by acquiring a Zambian maheu business (a non-
alcoholic traditional beverage) and two water companies
covering Uganda and Ethiopia. We’ve also added soft
drinks capacity in Ghana, Angola and Southern Sudan.
In developing our business portfolio, we benefit from
valuable partnerships with China Resources Enterprise,
Castel in Africa and Molson Coors in North America. This
year we’ve further strengthened our relationship with our
partners in China with managers from CR Snow making 
a number of visits to other parts of the SABMiller group 
to share learning and best practice.
As the pace of consolidation in the global brewing industry
slows, competitive advantage depends increasingly on
generating organic growth. For SABMiller, this means a
sharper focus on the commercial imperatives of understanding
the consumer, enhancing our brand portfolios and getting
our products into the market efficiently and effectively.
Against this background, our strategic priority of
developing strong, relevant brand portfolios that 
win in the local market comes more to the fore. The
conviction that we stand or fall by the success of our
brands finds expression in our group mission ‘to own 
and nurture local and international brands that are the
first choice of the consumer’.
Our performance owes much to SABMiller’s powerful
portfolio of over 200 local brands whose consumer appeal
and brand equity have made it possible in many markets
to gain share and assume price leadership at the same
time. This year group revenues rose 4% on an organic,
constant currency basis with all regions increasing their
revenue per hectolitre.
4%
Group revenue growth 
(organic, constant currency)
In developing our brand portfolios, we’re able to draw 
on our deep understanding of local consumers, our ability 
to match specific needs and occasions with differentiated
brands and the excitement that comes from constantly
upgrading and enhancing the portfolio.
The Latin American businesses have achieved particular
success by revitalising existing brands and introducing
new ones, making bottles and labels more attractive 
and overhauling the route to market so as to enhance 
our ability to deliver the right brands to the right outlets 
at the right time. Recent innovations include Aguila Light
(suitable for drinking at home with meals), flavoured beer
alternatives (Redd’s in Colombia, for example) and the
development of non-alcoholic soft drinks, all helping 
to address new and different drinking occasions.
Around the group, we’re also benefiting from brand
portfolios that offer affordable options to price-conscious
consumers. Our Colombian business, for example, has
made it cheaper to buy a beer by offering its Aguila brand
in smaller bottles. Our operations in Africa continue to
develop new, low-cost products based on indigenous crops
such as sorghum and cassava that can then be marketed
as affordable alternatives to traditional home brews.
270 bps
EBITA margin increase in Colombia
Nor are we forgetting consumers who aspire to a 
luxury brand on special occasions but find international
premium beers too expensive. To meet this need, we’ve
championed the concept of the local premium brand to
offer the cachet of a premium beer at a more affordable
price. Selling at attractive margins, these have proved
very successful in Latin America, Africa, Europe and even
the USA in the form of craft beers such as Blue Moon.
Development of our four international premium brands 
is continuing, but this is a longer-term process requiring
the seeding of the brands into the marketplace over
several years.
Developing successful brand portfolios requires the right
interplay of global and local skills. Through The Marketing
Way, a group-wide initiative to codify and disseminate best
practice, we’re building our marketing and sales expertise
around the world. Now, through our 5 to Drive initiative, we
have an improved global system for monitoring progress
and highlighting the potential for further organic growth 
in our existing operations. In implementing these global
initiatives, however, we remain aware that beer is
essentially a local product, embedded in communities
and cultures. It’s one of our competitive strengths that we
understand the local dimension and that group businesses
are able to address local needs within the global framework. SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Chief Executive’s review 13
Beer is essentially a local product, embedded in communities 
and cultures. It’s one of our strengths that we understand the local
dimension and that group businesses can address local needs in 
a sustainable way within the global framework.
To free up local management for the task of winning in
their own markets, we’re running a number of projects 
to simplify and streamline the organisation, reduce
complexity and capitalise on the spread and expertise of
the worldwide group – which brings us to another of our
strategic priorities, namely leveraging our skills and
global scale.
Following a period of rapid growth in which many new
operations have joined the group, we believe the time 
is right for a step-change in our global processes and
systems. A major business capability programme, now
under way, will standardise information and processes
based on a single, integrated IT system across finance,
procurement and human resources. Sales, distribution
and supply chain management processes will also be
streamlined and moved onto common, regional systems
platforms. A new global procurement organisation based
in Switzerland will capitalise on SABMiller’s worldwide
purchasing power by centralising the group’s procurement
where it’s in our interests to do so.
These various initiatives are based on proven technologies
and systems and will take four years to complete. As well
as creating a more connected global organisation, they’re
expected to produce ongoing cost benefits of US$300
million a year by 2014. This year, we have realised total
financial benefits of US$350 million, US$333 million 
of which were from improved working capital, while
recognising exceptional costs of US$342 million relating
to the programme.
US$2,010m
Free cash flow
Our businesses around the world continue to demonstrate
tight operational management and cost control, in line
with our next strategic priority of constantly raising 
the profitability of local businesses, sustainably. The
acquisitions of the last few years in China are starting 
to generate the expected synergies and economies 
of scale. In the USA, MillerCoors is making excellent
progress in its three-year cost-management programme.
In South Africa, SAB is extracting further efficiencies 
from its production, supply chain and administration and
reinvesting the savings in growth generating activities
such as marketing, distribution and developing its brand
portfolio. In response to severe economic conditions in
Europe, we’ve restructured some of our businesses and
announced the closure of a number of breweries and
distribution centres.
This year we tightened our management of cash and 
re-examined all our capital expenditure, applying stringent
criteria based on the risks and opportunities in each country.
As a result, capital expenditure, including the purchase of
intangible assets, at US$1,528 million, was US$619 million
lower than in the prior year and the group generated free
cash flow of US$2,010 million.
In difficult times, it’s easy to take actions that protect
short-term profitability at the expense of long-term
sustainability. We do not believe that this is the best way
to generate value for our stakeholders. For this reason,
we’ve reworded this particular strategic priority to include
the word ‘sustainably’.
In line with this imperative, we continue to work on the 
10 sustainable development priorities detailed on pages
42 to 43. Our breweries are making good progress
towards our targets to reduce water use and fossil fuel
emissions per hectolitre of beer produced. Water used
per hectolitre of beer produced fell 0.2hl to 4.3hl and
fossil fuel emissions per hectolitre were 0.6 kg CO
2
e
down at 13.3 kg CO
2
e. As repeated studies have shown,
we continue to make a valuable social and economic
contribution to the communities in which we operate.
We’ve also been addressing public concerns about 
the harmful consumption of alcohol, both in the way 
we conduct our own business and in projects jointly
undertaken with other stakeholders. Further details 
of what we are doing in this area are contained in the
sustainable development report on pages 40 to 41.
Addressing risks
Like any organisation, we face a variety of risks. Recognising
that risk is a fact of business, presenting opportunity as
well as threat, we aim to manage it in a way that generates
the best return for our shareholders. The well-developed
risk management process described on pages 57 and 58
helps us to identify and monitor the principal risks to the
business and deal with them appropriately. The principal
risks we face are set out on pages 24 and 25.
Looking ahead
We expect the coming year to be another testing one
with consumers in developed markets, in particular, still
feeling the effects of the global recession. Against this
background, the actions we’ve taken to position our
business around the world, to invest in our brands and 
to develop our operational capabilities will continue to
underpin our medium-term growth.
Graham Mackay
Chief Executive
Overview Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Business review
