  ‘I am delighted to report another year of strong 
ﬁ nancial performance, led by our developing 
market operations in Latin America, Africa, 
Asia Paciﬁ c and South Africa.’
Acting Chairman’s statement
John Manser
Acting Chairman
Dear Shareholder
It is with sadness that, in my current role as 
acting Chairman, I am delivering this year’s 
opening statement on behalf of Graham 
Mackay, who is currently on leave of absence 
for medical reasons. Graham has led 
SABMiller with great acuity, dedication and 
integrity over the last 16 years, and our 
thoughts are with him and his family at this 
difﬁ cult time.
Results and dividend
I am delighted to report another year 
of strong ﬁ nancial performance, led by 
our developing market operations in 
Latin America, Africa, Asia Paciﬁ c and 
South Africa.
Including acquisitions and the effects of 
currency translation, group revenue grew by 
10% (7% on an organic, constant currency 
basis) following selective price increases and 
the further expansion of our brand portfolios 
to offer a wider choice of products at 
different prices. Currency movements had 
an adverse impact of ﬁ ve percentage points 
on group revenue growth, mainly due to the 
weakening of the South African rand and 
Central European currencies against the US 
dollar. Beverage volumes totalled 306 million 
hectolitres, up 7% with lager volumes up 6% 
and soft drinks volumes up 15%.
Reported earnings before interest, tax, 
amortisation and exceptional items (EBITA) 
grew by 14% (9% on an organic, constant 
currency basis), reﬂ ecting the beneﬁ cial 
impact of the Foster’s acquisition. Reported 
EBITA margin was 70 basis points ahead of 
the prior year at 18.6%. Raw material input 
costs rose in line with expectations by mid 
single digits due to higher commodity costs, 
partially offset by procurement and other 
savings. Fixed costs increased due to 
inﬂ ation and investments in new production 
capacity in some markets, although again 
these were partially offset by efﬁ ciency 
savings elsewhere. Proﬁ t before tax declined 
16% to US$4,712 million, principally reﬂ ecting 
the inclusion of signiﬁ cant non-cash 
exceptional gains on transactions in the prior 
year. Adjusted earnings were 12% higher 
than the prior year and adjusted earnings 
per share were up 11% to 238.7 US cents.
Capital expenditure for the year was 
US$1,479 million as we continued to invest 
in additional capacity, commissioning new 
breweries in Zambia, Nigeria and Uganda 
while extending existing facilities elsewhere. 
Free cash ﬂ ow was US$3,230 million, an 
increase of US$182 million compared with 
the prior year. Net debt fell by US$2,161 
million, ending the year at US$15,701 million. 
The group’s gearing ratio as at 31 March  2013 
was 57.2%.  
The board has recommended a ﬁ nal dividend 
of 77 US cents per share which will be paid 
to shareholders on 23 August 2013. This 
brings the total dividend for the year to 101 
US cents per share, an increase of 11% over 
the prior year.
A past that prepares us for the future
In acknowledging Graham Mackay’s ﬁ nal 
year in an executive capacity, I offer my own 
perspective on the group’s achievements, 
strengths and prospects, in the context of 
our recent history and the dramatic evolution 
of the brewing sector during Graham’s 
management career here. 
6 – SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 That SABMiller should emerge from modest 
beginnings in South Africa to become a 
leading global consumer products company 
is a remarkable achievement. It is still more 
remarkable when one considers the 
considerable obstacles it has overcome as 
part of that journey. In its early days, South 
African Breweries posed little challenge to 
the established giants of European and US 
brewing. The industry was more collaborative 
than is the case today and the business was 
able to learn from other companies, quietly 
developing the core skills in brewing and 
brand building that form the basis of the 
strong operating culture for which SABMiller 
is rightly known. 
In 1989, however, the break up of the 
Soviet bloc provided the catalyst for the 
consolidation of the brewing industry and the 
creation of a global industry. Brewing assets 
that had long been neglected by indifferent 
government owners were now suddenly 
available to buy. South African Breweries, 
which had already participated in government 
privatisations in southern Africa, seized the 
opportunity to break out of the continent 
and begin expanding into Asia, and Central 
and Eastern Europe. 
Our strategy at the time was to acquire 
brewing assets that had typically been poorly 
run and to apply the world-class operational 
skills we had learned to improve the 
performance, quality and image of their 
beers. Initial forays were also driven by a 
desire to acquire a portfolio of international 
brands that could compete on the world 
stage. Perversely, it was the process of 
evaluating brands for international expansion 
– and more often than not rejecting them – 
that reinforced our respect for the local 
nature of beer. 
Our local approach
This belief, that beer remains in essence 
a local product, rooted in the heritage and 
culture of particular places or communities, 
now sets us apart from our major competitors 
and informs much of our attitude to brand 
management. Instead of applying a one-size-
ﬁ ts-all approach, we aim to develop full brand 
portfolios in each of our markets, informed by 
a deep appreciation for local consumer 
tastes across a spectrum of prices and 
drinking occasions. And far from inexorably 
becoming more global over time, the rise of 
the craft beer segment in the USA, Europe 
and Australia would suggest that, if anything, 
beer is becoming more local than ever.
This belief, that beer remains 
in essence a local product, 
rooted in the heritage and 
culture of particular places 
or communities, now sets 
us apart from our major 
competitors and informs 
much of our attitude to brand 
management.
In the core mainstream beer segment, 
we’ve become expert at taking undiscovered 
local brands and turning them into national 
champions. In Europe, many of our now 
iconic national brands began life in much less 
glamorous circumstances. In Latin America, 
following acquisitions in Central America in 
2001 and South America in 2005, we have 
transformed the image of the beer category 
in our markets, improving quality and 
differentiating our products by package, price 
and position. And in China, our joint venture 
has established the Snow brand, originally 
from Manchuria, as both the country’s ﬁ rst 
national beer and now the largest beer brand 
in the world by volume.
In the USA, following the merger with Miller 
Brewing Company in 2002, we reﬁ ned and 
adapted our skills to succeed in the world’s 
most competitive and sophisticated consumer 
market, gaining brands which are now part 
of an increasingly successful international 
premium portfolio.
The premiumisation of the beer category 
is a trend we are now leading in many of 
our developing markets, establishing local 
premium beers that trade on national pride 
and offer affordable luxury to consumers 
looking to trade up. At the lower end of the 
price ladder, particularly in Africa, we have 
set out to compete with informal alcohol 
through the development of affordable beers 
made from locally available ingredients. 
We started with the sorghum-based Eagle 
Lager in Uganda and subsequently launched 
two new cassava beers in Mozambique and 
Ghana. While these products open up new 
markets for us, they also provide a new 
income stream for farmers previously working 
at subsistence level and create a new source 
of revenue for governments. 
Management and organisation
The spirit and attitude formed by the 
business in those early years was manifest 
in an energy and restlessness that has 
since become the basis for a formidable 
performance management culture. Explicitly 
goal-oriented with a high degree of personal 
accountability, the business developed a 
cadre of exceptional senior managers, many 
of whom I am delighted to say remain with 
us today. This highly mobile workforce has 
repeatedly demonstrated its ability to turn 
around underperforming businesses, cutting 
costs and driving top line growth. This 
experience is now proving invaluable again 
as we look to grow our operations in Australia 
following the acquisition of the Foster’s 
business in late 2011. 
The business today
The result, today, is an attractive spread of 
businesses – well balanced globally in terms 
of sales volumes, revenues and EBITA, 
spanning both developed and developing 
economies and advantageously exposed 
to growth markets. We also enjoy valuable 
partnerships with the Castel group in Africa, 
China Resources Enterprises in China, 
Anadolu Efes in Turkey and the former Soviet 
Union and The Coca-Cola Company for whom 
we’re the leading bottler in Africa and Central 
America. We continue to be a leader in our 
sector in terms of our brand management, our 
approach to sustainability and our commitment 
to market our products responsibly in every 
country in which we operate. 
Castle Lager 
growing across Africa
Castle Lager, a brand 
synonymous with SABMiller’s 
heritage in South Africa, 
posted its second year of 
double digit growth driven 
by strong trade execution, 
demonstrating that even a 
brand with over 100 years 
of sales behind it can remain 
relevant to a new generation 
of consumers. The brand 
is also now establishing 
a powerful position as a 
regional brand across the 
rest of Africa.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 – 7
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Acting Chairman’s statement 
continued
Corporate governance 
The corporate governance update on 
pages 57 to 65 of this report provides 
a detailed description of the directors’ 
approach to corporate governance, the 
board’s application of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and the role and 
effectiveness of the board.
The annual appraisal of the effectiveness of 
our board and its committees, as well as the 
annual evaluation of each individual director’s 
contribution and performance for the year, 
assumed particular importance this year in 
light of the succession arrangements which 
we implemented last year, summarised 
below. In my view, the board and its 
committees continue to operate effectively 
and to meet in full their obligations to support 
management, to monitor performance and 
to maintain the board’s strategic oversight. 
Nevertheless, neither I as acting Chairman, 
nor the directors collectively, are complacent 
about matters of corporate governance. 
Where we have elected not to apply certain 
provisions of the Code, we have done so 
because we believe this to be in the best 
interests of shareholders as a whole, and 
the results we have delivered to date do not 
seem to us to indicate that these decisions 
have adversely impacted the performance 
of the group.
Having decided that a year characterised 
by change and transition was not the right 
year to undertake an external evaluation of 
our board’s effectiveness, we conducted 
a rigorous and extensive internal review of 
performance this year, ably orchestrated by 
our Company Secretary. The results of this 
performance and effectiveness assessment 
were reviewed in full and approved by the 
board. Matters identiﬁ ed as requiring further 
consideration have been addressed, 
including changing the frequency and 
length of board meetings to ensure more 
regular meetings with additional time to 
discuss group strategy, senior executive 
succession planning and the group’s talent 
pipeline below the executive committee level. 
We have also taken steps to hold additional 
board meetings in countries where the group 
has operations. These will enable the board 
to conduct more detailed occasional reviews 
of country and regional performance and to 
hold regular pre-board meeting events at 
which non-executive directors have the 
opportunity to meet more frequently with 
other members of senior management as 
well as executive committee members. 
Succession 
Turning to succession and change, we 
announced in April 2012 that Meyer Kahn 
would retire as Chairman after the Annual 
General Meeting in July 2012, and that 
Graham Mackay would be appointed as 
Executive Chairman for an interim period 
of one year. At this time we also said that 
Graham would hand over executive 
responsibilities to Alan Clark as our new 
Chief Executive after this year’s AGM in 
July 2013, when Graham would become 
non-executive Chairman. Although the UK 
Corporate Governance Code recommends 
that a chief executive should not go on to 
become chairman of the same company, 
the board determined that these changes 
were in the best interests of SABMiller and 
its shareholders. The decision had the 
strong backing of our shareholders and 
was made after discussions with major 
institutional investors. At the same time 
we announced a number of other board 
and executive succession changes, with 
Rob Pieterse also retiring from the board. 
I am glad to say that these changes, and 
our explanations for them, were welcomed 
by the overwhelming majority of shareholders. 
The explanation for our decision was even 
cited by the Association of British Insurers, in 
a report in December 2012 on the adequacy 
of companies’ explanations for not applying 
the UK Corporate Governance Code under 
the ‘comply or explain’ principle, as a best 
practice example. The board approved 
detailed job speciﬁ cations setting out the 
respective authorities and responsibilities of 
the Executive Chairman and Chief Operating 
Ofﬁ cer, and over the last year Graham and 
Alan have worked together to prepare Alan 
for the Chief Executive role and to effect a 
staged handover of responsibilities to ensure 
appropriate continuity in the management 
of the group. 
This served us in good stead, when in April 
this year Graham was diagnosed with a brain 
tumour. The board accordingly accelerated 
Alan’s planned promotion to Chief Executive 
with immediate effect while I stepped into the 
breach as acting Chairman to allow Graham 
medical leave of absence to focus on his 
treatment. As the transition of management 
responsibilities to Alan was already well 
advanced, he has simply had to pick up the 
remaining executive responsibilities a little 
sooner than expected, with the full support 
of all of our colleagues on the executive 
committee and the directors. 
Last year we also reported our intention 
to seek and appoint a new independent 
non-executive director, with the expectation 
that in due course he or she would replace 
me as the senior independent director. 
We were delighted to be able to announce 
Guy Elliott’s appointment to this role in 
March 2013. Guy is highly experienced 
with a strong reputation as a seasoned 
non-executive and business leader. He has 
been part of the leadership team of Rio Tinto, 
a global business working across both 
emerging and developed markets, and has 
deep experience of working through joint 
ventures and partnerships – all very pertinent 
to our business structure – as well as an 
understanding of consumer-facing businesses 
acquired during his time on the Cadbury 
board. He will be an excellent addition to 
our board, and his appointment reﬂ ects our 
continued commitment to the process of 
progressive renewal of the board and the 
independent directors in terms of age, 
gender and balance of skills. With Guy’s 
appointment effective on 1 July 2013, we will 
have appointed six new independent non-
executive directors over the past ﬁ ve years.
Share price performance
from 1 April 2010 to 23 May 2013 (£ sterling)
Source: Factset and Datastream 
as at 23 May 2013
Note: Share prices are rebased 
to SABMiller; the International 
Brewers Index charts the share 
price progression of an index 
of the company’s closest peers 
in the global brewing industry – 
Anheuser-Busch InBev, Carlsberg, 
Heineken and Molson Coors, 
relative to 1 April 2010. The index 
is weighted relative to the market 
capitalisation of the brewers as at 
1 April 2010.
35
30
25
20
15 
May 2013 Apr 2010 Oct 2010 Apr 2011 Oct 2011 Oct 2012 Apr 2012
International
Brewers Index +51.4%
FTSE 100 +16.6%
SABMiller +76.3%
8 – SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Sadly, we also announced in April 2013 
that Cyril Ramaphosa could not continue 
as a director of SABMiller because of his 
increasing public service commitments. 
Cyril has served SABMiller with distinction 
since his ﬁ rst appointment as a director and 
as acting chairman of our predecessor 
company in South Africa in 1997. His wise 
counsel, infectious good humour and deep 
understanding will be sorely missed. The 
directors are grateful to Cyril for his friendship 
and dedication over many years of service. 
On behalf of everyone at SABMiller, we wish 
him every success in facing the challenges 
of his new role.
Executive succession also continued apace 
in the last year with the appointment of Sue 
Clark, formerly Corporate Affairs Director, 
as Alan’s successor in the role of Managing 
Director of SABMiller Europe in June 2012. 
Sue is making excellent progress, providing 
strong leadership to the operation in a 
challenging time for these economies. 
In October we appointed Catherine May 
as our new Corporate Affairs Director. With 
her extensive international corporate affairs 
and communications experience, having 
previously held similar roles at Centrica and 
Reed Elsevier, she is already making a major 
contribution, leading the strong corporate 
affairs function built up by Sue and 
continuing to develop the critical capabilities 
which help to grow our business sustainably 
for the beneﬁ t of all stakeholders.
In January 2013 Norman Adami was 
promoted to the new role of Chairman, 
SABMiller Beverages South Africa, to 
assume overall strategic responsibility for 
SABMiller’s beverage businesses in South 
Africa. Norman had, for a number of years, 
acted both as managing director of The 
South African Breweries (Pty) Ltd and as 
chairman of our other beverage interests in 
South Africa. However, with the continuing 
strategic importance of our operations 
in South Africa, we decided to appoint 
a new managing director to run the beer 
business to enable Norman to play a more 
strategic and inﬂ uential role in the further 
development of our beverage businesses 
in South Africa, as well as our developing 
operations in Namibia.
Further board changes
We had previously announced that, barring 
unforeseen circumstances, I was expected 
to retire at the annual general meeting in 
2014 and that Guy Elliott would replace me 
as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent 
Director. In the light of Graham’s illness, the 
board is keeping the situation under review 
pending the progress of his course of 
treatment. In the meantime, I will continue 
as acting Chairman, and an appropriate 
announcement about the future will be made 
as soon as any deﬁ nitive decisions have been 
taken. Taking account of my increased time 
commitments and responsibilities as acting 
Chairman, Mark Armour has agreed to the 
board’s request that he succeed me as 
chairman of the audit committee, a year 
earlier than planned.
Many of you have written to Graham 
personally to send him your best wishes 
and messages of encouragement, and I 
know he is very grateful to you all for your 
support. He is inexpressibly proud of this 
company and its people, of what we have 
achieved together and the shape it is now 
in. SABMiller has a strong management 
team with considerable depth of talent 
and a strong board with a number of 
distinguished non-executive directors 
who have provided considerable continuity, 
stability and experience over many years 
of growth. I am conﬁ dent that under Alan 
Clark’s leadership the management team 
will continue to grow our business and 
deliver value to shareholders. I hope that 
you will continue to give Alan and all of 
my fellow directors your support. 
John Manser
Acting Chairman
Transforming the 
beer category in 
Latin America
Since the acquisition of our 
interests in South America in 
2005, we have transformed 
the image of the beer category 
in our markets, driving the 
development of new packs, 
price points and brand 
positions. Poker, which in 
2006 was a regional brand in 
Colombia with a market share 
of 18%, is now the country’s 
largest brand with a 42% 
share of the beer category.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 – 9
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
