 Our business in brief
Local knowledge driving global strength
A strategy that consistently delivers
SABMiller has become a global leader by doing business locally, 
producing high quality products as efﬁ ciently and sustainably as 
possible across a mix of developed and developing markets.
Built on our brands and a passion for beer
Informed by deep local market insights, we invest in building 
and nurturing local beer brands which earn the long-term 
support and affection of our customers and consumers.
Our vision
To be the most admired company 
in the global beer industry.
Local 
knowledge 
The physical characteristics of beer, 
a perishable product that is bulky 
to transport, dictate that brewing is 
a predominantly local enterprise 
around the world. International 
brands comprise only a small 
proportion of global beer volumes, 
and the growth of craft beers in 
many developed markets indicates 
that interest in local brands is on the 
rise. At SABMiller we understand and 
celebrate the inherently local qualities 
of the beer industry, nurturing and 
developing brands that address the 
speciﬁ c tastes of consumers which 
are often unique to their location, 
reﬂ ecting their heritage, nationality 
or cultural identity.
Our mission
To own and nurture local and 
international brands that are the 
ﬁ rst choice of the consumer.
Our values
• Our people are our enduring 
advantage.
• Accountability is clear and 
personal.
• We work and win in teams.
• We understand and respect 
our customers and consumers.
• Our reputation is indivisible.
Our strategic 
priorities
• Creating a balanced and attractive 
global spread of businesses.
• Developing strong, relevant brand 
portfolios that win in the local 
market.
• Constantly raising the proﬁ tability 
of local businesses, sustainably.
• Leveraging our skills and global 
scale.
Global 
strength
Our local approach to brand 
management does not preclude 
a global approach to generating 
the efﬁ ciencies necessary to invest 
for growth and local competitive 
advantage. We routinely test, update 
and reapply global standards and 
best practice across a range of 
disciplines, from technical standards 
and distribution, to marketing, sales, 
ﬁ nance and people management.
For more information on our strategic priorities and 
how we measure against them, see page 15.
For more information on the performance of our brands, 
see pages 18 to 35.
2 – SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Delivering strong revenue and earnings 
growth in 2013
Investment in additional production capacity, commercial 
capability and distribution reach supported strong growth in 
our developing markets, while a focus on operating efﬁ ciencies 
helped us achieve growth in proﬁ t margins. Total beverage 
volumes grew by 7% to 306 million hectolitres, with lager volumes 
up 6% and soft drinks volumes up 15%. 
Creating long-term sustainable value
We generate value by establishing leading positions in 
strategically attractive markets that offer long-term growth 
opportunities, building and sustaining successful local brands 
as part of comprehensive portfolios. We maximise the efﬁ ciency 
of our businesses and utilise our extensive local supply chains 
to ensure that the communities in which we operate participate 
in our growth and development.
Operational
highlights 
• Reported group revenue growth 
of 10% with organic, constant 
currency group revenue up 7%.
• Group revenue per hectolitre (hl) 
up 3% on an organic, constant 
currency basis.
• Lager volumes rose 3% on an 
organic basis with growth in all 
divisions except North America.
• Organic, constant currency EBITA 
growth of 9%, with reported EBITA 
growth of 14%, reﬂ ecting the 
inclusion of Foster’s and other 
business combinations, partially 
offset by adverse currency 
movements.
• EBITA margin improvement of 70 
basis points (bps) to 18.6%, with 
organic, constant currency EBITA 
margin improvement of 40 bps.
• Progress with the Foster’s 
integration and synergies remains 
ahead of schedule, with lager 
volume growth in the continuing 
brand portfolio in the fourth quarter 
versus the prior year.
• Adjusted earnings up 12%, 
with adjusted EPS up 11% 
to 238.7 US cents per share.
• Declines in proﬁ t before tax and 
proﬁ t attributable to owners of the 
parent reﬂ ect exceptional non-cash 
gains reported last year.
Understanding 
consumer 
tastes
We build long-term value by ensuring 
that our brands maintain a continuous 
connection and relevance to their 
target consumers, supported by 
innovation within the beer category 
to develop new products, brands, 
packs and price points to meet the 
evolving expectations of consumers, 
wholesalers and our retail partners.
Building 
the right 
partnerships
From strategic alliances that span 
continents, to individual relationships 
with corner-shop retailers, our ability 
to build and sustain long-term 
partnerships is a core strength of the 
business. At the local level we are 
engaged in a shared endeavour with 
governments, distributors, retailers, 
suppliers and the community at large 
to support the social and economic 
development of the countries in 
which we operate.
For more information on our ﬁ nancial performance, 
see pages 36 to 43.
For more information on how we create long-term 
sustainable value, see pages 14 and 44 to 47.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 – 3
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
