 6 Chairman’s statement SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010
In difficult conditions, we have drawn on our many advantages – not
least our leading market positions, the strength of our local brands
and the quality of our management – to produce very good results.
Chairman’s statement
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to report a very good set of results, achieved
in difficult conditions as the global economy struggled
and consumer demand remained weak, particularly in 
our more developed markets.
As I said last year, beer is a fairly resilient product and our
broad geographic footprint proved to be an advantage in
that different countries were affected by the global economic
crisis at different rates and to differing degrees. This year,
in addition, we have benefited from management’s ability
to reduce costs and selectively increase prices in order 
to maximise revenues – capitalising here on our strong
market positions and leading local brands.
Results and dividend
Total beverage volumes of 261 million hectolitres were 
in line with the prior year on an organic basis and lager
volumes were level at 213 million hectolitres. We made
share gains in many of our markets. Group revenue 
grew by 4%, driven by price increases in the prior and
current years.
Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation (EBITA)
grew 6% on both an organic, constant currency and a
reported basis. EBITA margin on an organic, constant
currency basis increased by 30 basis points (bps) to 16.7%.
Cost efficiencies were offset by increases in depreciation,
higher pay costs and, in some markets, increased
investment in brand and customer management.
Exceptional charges, primarily relating to our business
capability programme, resulted in a fall of 1% in profit
before tax to US$2,929 million.
Adjusted earnings were 22% ahead of the prior year. 
The increase reflects higher EBITA, lower finance costs, 
a lower effective tax rate and a fall in the minority share of
profit, mainly due to the purchase of the 28.1% minority
interest in our Polish subsidiary, Kompania Piwowarska, in
May 2009 in exchange for the issue of 60 million ordinary
shares. Adjusted earnings per share of 161.1 US cents
were up 17% in the year.
The group generated free cash flow of US$2,010 million,
an improvement of US$1,913 million compared with
the prior year. This includes significant improvements in
the management of working capital with a considerable
contribution from the business capability initiatives
mentioned below.
Capital expenditure for the period, including the purchase 
of intangible assets, was US$1,528 million – down
US$619 million on the prior year after the completion 
of several major projects. Normalised EBITDA margin,
including both dividends and revenue from MillerCoors,
decreased by 40 bps to 20.2%.
Net debt decreased by US$311 million to US$8,398 million,
reflecting the strong cash flow partly offset by adverse
currency translation. The group’s balance sheet was
further strengthened with the gearing ratio falling
significantly to 41%.
The board has recommended a final dividend of 51 US
cents per share to be paid to shareholders on 13 August
2010. This brings the total dividend for the year to 68 US
cents, an increase of 10 cents (17%) over the prior year.
Our assets
The strength of our balance sheet gives us a major
advantage in relation to our competitors. That said, it
does not reflect all the assets of the business. One might
also mention the strength of our local brands, the quality
of our management, our skills at managing business
partnerships and a key asset that is often undervalued –
our reputation.
It’s the group’s reputation – the sum of all our strengths –
that ensures the trust of our stakeholders and gives us
our licence to trade. For this reason, it’s fundamental to
our group vision ‘to be the most admired company in 
the global beer industry’. We saw solid progress in this
respect when Fortune Magazine published its 2010 list 
of the world’s most admired companies in March this
year. From seventh position in 2009, the Fortune survey
now ranks us third in the worldwide beverage sector.
While we’re obviously pleased with this result, we remain
determined to maintain this high ranking.
Meyer Kahn
Chairman SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Chairman’s statement 7
Investment
The economic pressures of the past year have not
deflected us from our strategy. Rather, they have underlined
its value as we seek to gain maximum returns from our
global business portfolio.
Although our capital investment was lower this year 
than last, we’ve continued selectively to add new brewing
capacity as emerging economies resume their growth,
lifting demand for our products, and as more consumers
move from informal home brews to commercial brands. 
It has therefore been a busy year for brewery acquisitions
and new construction. In China, for example, CR Snow
has bought three more breweries and built a further 
four. In Africa in the past year, we invested in four new
breweries and one soft drinks plant while two existing
breweries were expanded and upgraded. Where we see
opportunities on the African continent, we continue to
enter new markets and to acquire businesses producing
non-alcoholic beverages where these fit well with our
existing business.
As we invest to meet future demand, it’s pleasing 
to see past investments producing good returns. Our
Chinese joint venture, CR Snow, has started to reap the
cost synergies of earlier acquisitions in China and is now
gaining economies of scale in procurement, operations
and routes to market. Almost five years on from our
merger with Bavaria, the businesses in Colombia, 
Peru, Ecuador and Panama have generated an attractive
return on the group’s initial investment of US$7.8 billion
announced in 2005. EBITA from our Latin American
business has grown at a compound annual rate of 
16% over this period with margins rising by 320 bps.
Since the MillerCoors joint venture began operations 
in North America on 1 July 2008, it has delivered total
synergies of US$326 million with a further US$83 million
in cost savings in areas such as production, procurement,
marketing and administration. MillerCoors remains on
track to achieve US$750 million in total synergies and
other cost savings by the end of the 2012 calendar year.
The group has embarked on a major business capability
programme to simplify processes and reduce costs, so
giving local management more time to focus on market-
facing initiatives. Back-office activities including finance,
human resources and procurement will be streamlined
through global information processes and applications
while front-office processes such as sales, distribution
and supply chain management will benefit from common
regional platforms. The programme is on track to be
completed by 2014, by which time we expect ongoing
cost benefits of US$300 million a year. In the current
financial year, we have recognised US$342 million of
exceptional costs relating to the programme.
Operational highlights
Lager volumes in Latin America increased by 3% 
as economic conditions showed signs of easing and 
we gained or held share in the majority of our markets.
EBITA grew very strongly at 18% on a reported basis and
17% on an organic, constant currency basis as a result of
pricing benefits, positive sales mix and cost productivity
improvements.
In Europe, lager volumes declined by 5% on an organic
basis as beer markets contracted in difficult economic
conditions and governments in a number of key markets
imposed heavy increases in excise. Nonetheless, through
cost efficiencies and robust pricing, EBITA grew by 4% 
on an organic, constant currency basis. Reported EBITA
declined by 8% as central European currencies weakened.
Reported within the North America segment, MillerCoors
delivered pro forma
1
EBITA growth of 13% despite a
sluggish US beer market impacted by continued adverse
economic conditions. MillerCoors’ domestic sales to
wholesalers and retailers on a pro forma basis, were 
both down 2%, but revenue per hectolitre grew by 3%.
Most of our markets in Africa continued to grow, albeit
more slowly than in recent years. Lager volumes grew
6%, helped by strong performances in Mozambique,
Zambia and Uganda, and soft drinks volumes by 4% 
on an organic basis. While EBITA grew by 4% on an
organic, constant currency basis, reported EBITA was
held back by currency weaknesses and increased by 1%.
In Asia, lager volumes increased organically by 7%
across the region and by 10% in China. India saw a 
14% fall in volumes due to regulatory issues and higher
taxes. EBITA on an organic, constant currency basis was
level, while reported EBITA, which includes initial losses 
in recent Chinese acquisitions, fell 12%.
In South Africa, where the market grew marginally, 
lager volumes were 1% below the prior year. Soft drinks
volumes also declined by 1% as a result of the weak
economic environment and unfavourable weather in the
peak summer trading period. Constant currency EBITA
grew 2%, although margin declined slightly as pricing
benefits and fixed cost productivity were eroded by rising
input costs and higher expenditure on marketing. Thanks
to the strength of the rand against the US dollar, reported
EBITA grew by 16%.
Overview Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Business review
1 MillerCoors’ pro forma
is defined on page 29
note 3.
Share price 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2010 (£ sterling)
20
10
15
SABMiller
International 
brewers index
FTSE 100
Source: Thomson Datastream
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 8 Chairman’s statement SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010
Chairman’s statement continued
Rewarding our stakeholders
Our strong performance, along with some recovery in
global stock markets, has supported another rise in our
share price. Over the 12 months to 31 March 2010, our
market capitalisation has grown from US$22,415 million
to US$46,381 million, a rise of 107% compared with a
44% rise for the FTSE 100.
Our growth around the world rewards not only the
shareholders of SABMiller plc but also those of our
subsidiaries which are listed on local stock exchanges.
Shares in our Zambian Breweries plc subsidiary, for example,
have produced a compound annual growth rate of 21%
in constant currency since they were listed on the national
stock exchange in September 1998, and have grown
40% in the last 12 months. Subsidiaries in countries such
as Tanzania have also grown substantially, to the benefit
of local investors.
In another move to reward smaller stakeholders, 
we announced in December 2009 that 8.45% of the
shares in our South African subsidiary, The South African
Breweries Ltd (SAB), would be placed under black
ownership as part of our commitment to Broad-Based
Black Economic Empowerment in South Africa. The 
so-called Zenzele transaction will create some 40,000
new shareholders among SAB employees and qualifying
retailers – two groups that play a central role in the country’s
long-term success. The deal has also created a charitable
foundation which will hold 18% of the shares to be issued
under the transaction and will use the dividend income 
for the benefit of the wider South African community.
We have always argued that the best contribution we 
can make to the societies in which we operate is to run
successful businesses. Last year, an independent study
into SABMiller’s operations in Uganda and Honduras
revealed that for every person we employ directly in Uganda,
a further 100 farmers and other workers depend on us 
for at least part of their livelihood. In the more developed
Honduran economy, the figure is 33. Where appropriate,
we also contribute by sourcing raw materials from small-
scale, local suppliers and working with them to develop
the quality and type of materials we need. Some 28,500
smallholders are currently involved in programmes of this
kind in Africa, India and Latin America. In these and other
ways, we seek to encourage enterprise development in
our value chains and to stimulate the local economy.
As a responsible beer company, we have always been
passionate about discouraging irresponsible drinking. 
To embed this ethos even more firmly into the business
and to make it a bigger part of everything we do, we’re
currently training all our employees to promote responsible
consumption in the workplace, at home and in the
community. So far, more than 75% of our employees
have undergone this training.
Corporate governance
We believe that effective corporate governance depends
on the quality of the board and on members’ understanding
of their role and responsibilities. We are fortunate at
SABMiller in having board directors of the highest calibre,
four of whom have served for all or most of the period
since the company’s London listing in 1999.
One principle of the Combined Code governing UK-listed
companies is that the board should include an appropriate
balance of independent non-executive directors. The Code
identifies directors’ length of tenure as one factor a board
should consider when deciding whether directors should
be deemed independent. We strongly believe the Code’s
nine-year cut-off point is arbitrary and does not place
sufficient weight on experience gained by a director while
on the board. It is our firm view that a rigid application of
this criterion, as advocated by some commentators, would
not be in the interests of SABMiller or its shareholders.
One board member who will be stepping down at this 
year’s annual general meeting is Lord Fellowes, our Senior
Independent Director and Chairman of our Corporate
Accountability and Risk Assurance Committee (CARAC).
Robert Fellowes has been a diligent and committed
director for the past 11 years. We will miss his enormous
contribution and we wish him well in his retirement. His
role as Senior Independent Director will be taken by John
Manser, while Dr Dambisa Moyo will take his place as
Chair of CARAC.
During the year we were pleased to welcome Howard
Willard to the board as a non-executive director under 
the terms of our agreement with our largest shareholder,
Altria Group, Inc.
On 1 May 2010 we welcomed Mark Armour as an
independent non-executive director and a member 
of the audit and remuneration committees. Previously 
a partner at Price Waterhouse, Mark has been Chief
Financial Officer of Reed Elsevier Group plc since 1996
and brings a wealth of experience in financial and accounting
matters. His appointment is another step in the continuing
renewal of the SABMiller board.
With members representing five continents, the SABMiller
board has been recognised as one of the most internationally
diverse in the FTSE 100. Its quality is matched by that of
our executive team, exemplified when our Chief Executive,
Graham Mackay, was named Business Leader of the
Year by an independent group of CEOs at the CNBC
European Business Leaders Awards 2010. The award
cites his ‘outstanding leadership and performance’ and
we congratulate him on this well-deserved recognition.
I would also like to pay tribute to our executives, managers
and staff whose skills and commitment have brought us
through a difficult year and helped to secure such impressive
results. We are also grateful to our business partners and
to you, our shareholders, for your continuing support.
Outlook
Although the economic environment began to improve 
for some of our emerging market businesses in the latter
part of the financial year under review, a broader recovery
in consumer spending is not expected before the second
half of the current financial year. Price increases will be
taken selectively, predominantly in the second half, and
we expect raw material input costs for the year to be 
level with, or marginally down on, the prior year. We will
continue to implement our cost productivity initiatives
while increasing investment in our brands.
The group’s brand equities and its financial position
remain strong and we are well positioned to take
advantage of any improvement in trading conditions.
Meyer Kahn
Chairman
