 Chief Executive’s review
 ‘With some 72% of EBITA coming from 
developing markets, SABMiller continues 
to enjoy the highest exposure of any 
global brewer to a wide number of growth 
opportunities in the beer industry.’
Alan Clark
Chief Executive
In my new capacity as Chief Executive, 
I would like to highlight the sadness shared 
by all of us in the group at the news of 
Graham Mackay’s illness, diagnosed in 
April 2013, and his subsequent decision 
to step down early as Executive Chairman. 
Graham’s contribution to SABMiller’s 
success is immeasurable, and I am sure 
that all the group’s shareholders and 
employees would join me in expressing our 
deep gratitude for everything he has done 
to make SABMiller the resounding success 
that it is today. The commitment, skill and 
foresight with which he has led the business 
since 1997 will remain an inspiration to a 
new generation of SABMiller management. 
Speaking personally, his energy, wise 
counsel and good humour have greatly 
enriched my working experience here. 
Business performance
The group delivered another year of strong 
ﬁ nancial performance, with investment in 
our brands, production capacity, product 
innovation and trade execution capability 
driving growth across a number of our 
businesses. Group revenue rose by 7% on an 
organic, constant currency basis, supported 
by organic volume growth of 4% for total 
beverages. Revenue per hectolitre rose by 
3% on an organic, constant currency basis, 
reﬂ ecting selective price increases and a 
continued focus on expanding our portfolios 
up and down the price ladder. Operating 
costs have been controlled despite signiﬁ cant 
commodity inﬂ ation and currency headwinds, 
contributing to a 70 basis point expansion on 
a reported basis of the group EBITA margin 
which was 18.6%. 
With some 72% of EBITA coming from 
developing markets, SABMiller continues 
to enjoy the highest exposure of any global 
brewer to a wide number of growth 
opportunities in the beer industry. Although 
underlying economic conditions have slowed 
in some of those markets during the year, 
most notably Latin America, South Africa 
and China, we believe the economic 
fundamentals remain highly attractive over 
the long term. SABMiller’s superior position 
in these markets reﬂ ects the longstanding 
commitment and investment made to 
securing positions which are now deeply 
rooted in local markets up and down the value 
chain, from farming through to production, 
distribution, retail and consumption. The 
social and economic progress of the markets 
in which we operate is therefore of direct 
interest to us as we seek to grow our 
business in a way which is sustainable both 
locally and globally. The jobs we create, the 
taxes we pay, the skills we impart and the 
environmental footprint we leave affect not 
just the communities we serve but our ability 
to grow our businesses for the long term.
During the last nine months, while managing 
the group’s executive committee as Chief 
Operating Ofﬁ cer, I have had the opportunity 
to review our operations, partnerships, 
brands and people. The experience has 
been a powerful reminder of the strengths, 
rigorously and consistently applied, that 
underpin SABMiller’s successful operating 
model. This approach is founded on deep 
local insights, complemented by an increasingly 
collaborative approach to codifying and 
reapplying global best practice around the 
group. As the nature of growth in our industry 
changes over time however, our ability to 
learn, adapt and deploy new knowledge 
at speed and with scale will require the 
continual evolution of our approach and 
business model. 
10 – SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Growing the core of our business with 
mainstream beers
Earlier in this report, John Manser refers 
to SABMiller’s core strength in cultivating 
and sustaining ﬂ agship mainstream lager 
brands which remain faithful to their heritage 
while also establishing new connections 
and relevance with today’s consumer. 
This strength was notable in the year as 
our insight into local retail and consumer 
environments supported progress in 
developed and developing markets alike. 
In Latin America, for example, we have 
been working hard to secure beer’s place 
as the leading alcohol choice, meeting the 
aspirations of new consumers and enhancing 
the affordability and accessibility of our 
products and packs to suit different 
occasions. As a result, we have seen growing 
consumer loyalty to core brands such as 
Cristal in Peru, Pilsener Light in Ecuador, 
Pilsener in El Salvador and Águila Light in 
Colombia where an enhanced sales service 
model, driven by centralised telesales and 
dedicated account developers, helped 
improve trade coverage and distribution. 
In Australia, I am especially pleased with 
the progress we have achieved at Carlton & 
United Breweries (CUB). This is discussed 
in the operations review for the Asia Paciﬁ c 
region on page 30. Recent signs of 
improvement in CUB’s market share reﬂ ect 
better relationships with key retail partners, 
the beneﬁ ts from restructuring our sales 
force and early results from repositioning 
the brand portfolio. This is exempliﬁ ed by 
the turnaround of Victoria Bitter which has 
been returned to its original recipe and 
relaunched into the market, reversing a 
near-10 year negative trend. 
Similarly in South Africa, Castle Lager, 
a brand synonymous with our own history 
and heritage, demonstrated that a beer with 
more than 100 years of sales behind it can 
be just as vital and relevant to an entirely new 
generation of consumers, posting its second 
successive year of double digit growth. 
We are expanding our 
innovation programmes to 
address a wider range of styles 
and price points, enabling 
consumers ﬁ rstly to trade more 
easily out of informal alcohol 
and then to trade up within a 
more dynamic beer category.
Lastly, in difﬁ cult markets on both sides of 
the Atlantic, our ability to drive top line growth 
with established brands has been evident. 
In the USA, Coors Light has become the 
second largest beer brand in the country, 
growing its share of the premium light 
segment through the execution of a 
successful sales and marketing strategy, 
together with the consistent and powerful 
realisation of its ‘Refreshment as cold as 
the Rockies’ campaign. In Europe, ﬂ agship 
brands Tyskie in Poland and Timisoreana 
in Romania increased volume and market 
share, driven by innovations in products 
and packs together with strong sales and 
marketing delivery.
Driving our premium portfolios
Consumer tastes continually evolve, and 
new generations are now looking for premium 
and craft beers which are both authentic 
and clearly differentiated in their markets. 
SABMiller has created and led this local 
premium segment in many markets, a lead 
which is now being secured as we do more 
to develop the opportunity around the world.
In Latin America we reported encouraging 
results from our premium portfolio, driven by 
the strong performance of the Miller brand 
range. In Panama, Miller Lite and Miller 
Genuine Draft (MGD) enjoyed strong growth, 
consolidating their leadership positions in 
the premium and super premium segments. 
Similarly in Ecuador and El Salvador, our 
local premium brands, Club and Suprema 
respectively, saw double digit growth from 
the addition of the red beer variants, Club 
Roja and Suprema Roja.
In response to the popularity of many 
beers in the craft segment, MillerCoors 
is successfully reorienting its portfolio to 
increase its contribution from a more diverse 
range of premium brands. Tenth and Blake, 
the MillerCoors craft and imports business, 
continued its strong performance driven by 
Blue Moon, Peroni Nastro Azzurro and the 
Leinenkugel’s brand family, which has had 
notable success this year with Leinenkugel’s 
Summer Shandy.
In Africa, too, we are catering for a new and 
aspiring middle class with exciting premium 
offerings. Castle Lite, featured on the front 
of this report, generated exceptional volume 
growth across our Africa division. In South 
Africa the brand has doubled its sales in the 
Expanding our 
operations in Africa
We continue to invest in 
new capacity across Africa 
with the commissioning 
of three new facilities in 
Zambia (left), Uganda and 
Nigeria. In addition, capacity 
constraints were alleviated 
through the expansion of 
operations in Ghana, South 
Sudan and Zimbabwe.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 – 11
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Chief Executive’s review
continued
three years since its relaunch, leveraging 
its highly successful ‘Extra Cold’ positioning 
to account for more than 10% of the total 
beer market. 
Innovation and expanding 
the beer category
From craft beers and ciders in the USA, 
Europe and Australia, to beers brewed 
with entirely new raw materials in Africa, we 
are expanding our innovation programmes 
to address a wider range of styles and 
price points, enabling consumers ﬁ rstly 
to trade more easily out of informal alcohol 
and then to trade up within a more dynamic 
beer category.
In Europe, we have introduced a number 
of product innovations such as the Ksia ˛z
.
e ˛ce 
range of speciality beers in Poland, Fenix 
wheat beer in the Czech Republic and 
lower-alcohol ‘Radlers’ or shandies in 
Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary 
and Slovakia. 
We launched our second African cassava-
based beer in Ghana during the year,  
building on the success of the cassava-
based Impala brand which was launched 
two years ago in Mozambique. Like Impala, 
it offers consumers an affordable alternative 
to illicit or informal alcohol while directly 
facilitating the development of a local 
agricultural supply chain. This year, 
our African division sourced 52% of its 
agricultural raw materials from within 
Africa, achieving its 2014 target of 50% 
a year ahead of schedule.
Our traditional African beer, Chibuku, is now 
available in 10 markets with a new variant, 
Chibuku Super, expanding the category and 
geographic footprint of our more affordable 
products still further. Similarly in Latin 
America, we have continued the expansion 
of our bulk pack offerings, making beer 
more affordable for low-income consumers 
to share. An example is Pilsen Trujillo in 
Peru which recorded double digit growth 
by persuading consumers to switch from 
illegal alcohol.
MillerCoors now has a full pipeline of 
innovations, illustrated by the launch of Redd’s 
Apple Ale and Third Shift Amber Lager into 
the above-premium segment this year.
Making good on our responsibilities
Combating the harmful use of alcohol and 
related issues such as drink-driving or 
underage drinking are important priorities for 
us. In October 2012, in response to the call 
by the World Health Organisation and its 
member states in the WHO’s Global Strategy 
to Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol, we 
signed a ﬁ ve-year global action plan with 
other leading beer, wine and spirits 
companies to help reduce the harmful use 
of alcohol. We operate over 100 programmes 
around the world to contribute to reducing 
the harmful use of alcohol, often working 
with local partners, governments, law 
enforcement agencies and communities. 
We play our part in tackling 
the resource challenges 
we jointly share with local 
communities, such as water, 
food and energy security.
Our approach to helping reduce alcohol 
harm also requires us to regularly review 
our commercial governance practices to 
ensure we are meeting society’s expectations. 
We believe that our policies on employee 
behaviour, commercial communication and 
product innovation are progressive and 
industry-leading, as is our company-wide 
education programme that reinforces our 
beliefs in this important area. 
We also play our part in tackling the resource 
challenges we jointly share with local 
communities, such as water, food and energy 
security. We aim to run our breweries as 
efﬁ ciently as possible, and I’m pleased to 
report good progress against our water and 
carbon reduction targets. In the year, our 
water consumption per hl of lager produced 
was 3.7 hl, an 8% reduction on the previous 
year. Over the same period, our fossil fuel 
emissions totalled 11.1 kgCO2e per hl of lager 
produced, a year-on-year drop of 10%.
Businesses, governments and civil society 
need to work in partnership to develop 
practical, local solutions to manage scarce 
resources. In areas where water security 
presents a potential challenge to our 
business, we are taking a leading role in 
creating partnerships such as the Strategic 
Water Partners Network in South Africa.
Investment
Capital expenditure for the year was 
US$1,479 million as we continued to invest 
selectively in support of future growth. 
New breweries were commissioned in 
Zambia, Nigeria and Uganda, with further 
capacity expansion completed in Ghana 
and South Sudan.
Through social investment programmes 
which directly support the communities 
we work in, we have helped entrepreneurs 
establish thousands of new businesses and 
grow to become successful job creators in 
their own right. This year alone SABMiller – 
including our foundations – invested 
US$6 million in programmes to foster 
entrepreneurial activity worldwide.
Well-crafted beers
Over the course of the year, comment and 
debate about craft beer has intensiﬁ ed, driven 
by consumers in more developed beer markets 
expressing a preference for a wider range of tastes 
and ﬂ avours. The interest, passion and excitement 
that craft beer brings to the category is something 
we are enthusiastic supporters of, using the 
opportunity ourselves to innovate with new styles 
and recipes, demonstrating the pride and skill 
that goes into our brewing. With the introduction 
of ﬂ avours such as honey, spices and fruits, we 
are inspiring new rituals that lend themselves to a 
different range of serving occasions or complement 
certain foods.
As the majority of SABMiller’s beers are produced 
and consumed locally, we are well placed to beneﬁ t 
from the growing interest in the quality, provenance 
and personality of local craft beer. In the USA, 
the Tenth and Blake division offers a roster of 
original brews including Blue Moon Belgian 
White, Leinenkugel’s, and Batch 19. In Australia 
our Matilda Bay brewery produces Redback 
Beer, Bohemian Pilsner, Beez Neez, Alpha Pale 
Ale and Dogbolter while our Yatala brewery 
produces the hugely successful Fat Yak Pale 
Ale and Dirty Granny cider. We also provide a 
global distribution network for St Stefanus, a 
Belgian Abbey beer with a monastic heritage 
dating back to 1295.
Our local approach to brewing allows us to draw 
on the heritage and values of the communities 
we serve, informing deep consumer insights. 
We provide economic beneﬁ ts to the countries 
in which we operate by building value chains 
that drive growth and stimulate social 
development by using local resources and 
raw materials in a sustainable fashion.
12 – SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Leveraging our global scale
Our business capability programme has 
continued to progress, with the deployment 
of the global Information Services solution 
in Ecuador completed in the ﬁ rst half, and 
the necessary preparations completed in 
the second half for deployment in Poland, 
which went live on 1 April 2013.
Beneﬁ t delivery is tracking ahead of 
expectations and SABMiller Procurement has 
continued to drive substantial value from the 
way we source our raw materials, goods and 
services. In Europe, a project to understand 
our fridge buying requirements in more 
detail has led to a dramatic reduction in 
the complexity of required speciﬁ cations, 
allowing the introduction of more competitive 
tendering and access to greater scale 
economies. Equally, in Africa a project to 
substitute the traditional ‘steel’ beer can with 
a more contemporary aluminium can, has 
resulted in a lighter, more environmentally 
sustainable product, which has removed 
approximately 10,000 tons of raw material 
from our supply chain. 
SABMiller Procurement now manages 
approximately a third of SABMiller’s global 
procurement expenditure, primarily on 
brewing and packaging materials. Our 
intention is to increase this level to 50% 
in the forthcoming ﬁ nancial year and to 
some 80% over the medium term.
People as our competitive advantage
As Chief Operating Ofﬁ cer through much 
of this ﬁ nancial year, I have had the privilege 
to meet a wider cross-section of the 
group’s management and employees. 
The enthusiasm, commitment, energy and 
determination I have encountered at all levels 
of the business has certainly reinforced my 
view that our people represent an enduring 
advantage to our business. We now have 
a more experienced, mobile, mixed-gender 
and multi-cultural talent pool to draw on than 
ever before, and, given the globally integrated 
way in which we expect to compete in the 
future, this is a critical resource.
Our talent advantage is ably illustrated by 
the fact that the top 10 performing breweries 
in the SABMiller group are now all in Latin 
America, an achievement exempliﬁ ed by 
Industrias La Constancia in El Salvador which 
won our inaugural 2012 SABMiller Best 
Brewery Award. The progress made by our 
breweries in Latin America on issues such 
as efﬁ ciency, quality, water usage, carbon 
emissions and waste is testament less to 
technology than it is to the determination and 
professionalism of our people. Across Latin 
America, our employees have demonstrated 
a huge thirst for knowledge and a desire to 
improve and accept challenges. The insights 
from the region are now being reapplied 
across the group.
Each of our businesses is responsible for 
ensuring a safe working environment in 
its breweries, bottling plants and ofﬁ ces. 
Our aim is to create a healthy and positive 
workplace for our employees, and more 
detail on our health and safety record can 
be found on page 48 of this report.
Addressing risks
We recognise that running a global business 
presents complex risks. Our aim is to 
maximise the opportunities and minimise 
the threats that any given risk presents so 
as to generate the greatest return for our 
shareholders. We have a well developed 
risk-management process (detailed on pages 
16 and 17) for identifying, monitoring and 
managing the principal risks we face.
The recent directors’ review reveals little 
signiﬁ cant change in the risks we face 
(see pages 63 and 64). We have, however, 
stepped up our actions to mitigate risk 
in some areas. The risk of changing 
consumer preferences is addressed in 
our continuing efforts to build and enhance 
our commercial capabilities to respond to 
changing consumer tastes and behaviours. 
The management activities in Australia 
have ensured that the integration project 
is running ahead of schedule.
Looking ahead
Looking ahead to the rest of the current 
ﬁ nancial year, I am immensely proud to have 
the opportunity to lead such an exceptional 
senior management team and to carry 
forward the inspiring story of SABMiller’s 
growth and development.
Trading conditions are expected to be 
broadly unchanged, affording opportunities 
to grow our categories further, particularly 
in developing markets. We will continue to 
develop and differentiate our beer and soft 
drinks brand portfolios, leveraging local 
insights to bring the right products to each 
market and capture value. We will make price 
increases selectively. Unit input costs are 
expected to rise in low to mid single digits 
in constant currency terms. Focus will be 
maintained on cost effectiveness, including 
continued synergy delivery in Australia and 
expanding the scope of globally-managed 
procurement. Cash generation will remain a 
priority. Targeted investments in production 
capacity, marketing and sales capability will 
continue in order to drive growth.
Alan Clark
Chief Executive
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 – 13
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
