 Chief Executive’s review 7
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
After several brand launches and
renovations in the prior year, Latin America
delivered lager volume growth of 5%.
Strong revenue and cost management 
as well as favourable currency impacts,
drove solid profit growth with EBITA up
17%. We expect further growth as we
continue to make the beer category more
appealing through clearer segmentation 
of the market, improved brand portfolios
and more effective and efficient selling 
and distribution.
In North America, Miller Brewing 
Company has returned to growth after 
the previous years’ setbacks. EBITA was
up by 27%, driven by a 4% increase in
sales to retailers along with higher pricing,
brand mix improvements, cost savings and
a non-recurring gain. Miller’s worthmore
portfolio overall grew by nearly 50% with
the newly launched Miller Chill selling 
some 500,000 barrels during the year.
The underlying momentum of the business
will help considerably as we prepare for 
the proposed joint venture with Coors. 
We hope to close the transaction in 
mid-2008.
Robust economic conditions in Africa
contributed to a 6% growth in organic 
lager volumes from the group’s operations
on the continent (excluding Zimbabwe).
Beer sales in our key markets of Tanzania
and Mozambique continue to expand
rapidly, despite tough comparisons with
the previous year. Growth in Botswana 
has also been excellent, following the
renovation of the St Louis brand and 
the launch of returnable glass bottles. 
Our partners in Africa, Castel, have also
delivered a laudable performance in 
their markets. 
In Asia, the group’s associate in China, 
CR Snow, has extended its lead, acquiring
a further four breweries in the year and
growing volumes by 15% on an organic
basis to bring its market share to 18%.
Recent industry-wide price increases will
help to cover rising input costs in the short
term and, more importantly, bode well for
future profitability. In India, despite over
burdening regulation, we achieved organic
volume growth of 19%. Our import-led
business in Australia continues to grow
strongly, albeit from a small base. 
Owning the growth
This year has seen another strong
performance with results continuing the
trend of several very strong years. Adjusted
earnings per share grew by 19%, bringing
the compound annual growth rate over the
last six years to some 20% per annum. At
143.1 US cents, our adjusted earnings per
share have very nearly trebled since 2002.
Review of operations
While each of our markets has its own
unique drivers of profit growth, there are
common themes that have characterised
our success this year. Our focus on building
leading, local, mainstream and premium
brands and managing full brand portfolios
in each market has been successful in
driving up revenues and profits and
expanding our organic market share. 
What we’ve demonstrated is that stronger
brands can deliver better value to our
consumers and sustain firmer pricing. 
As a consequence, revenues have grown
strongly across the business and have
more than offset higher input costs. 
We have also improved our brand mix,
selling more higher-value brands in packs
that generate higher margins. Given the
trend towards premium beers, we 
continue to work hard to enhance our
offering in this segment. We’re also 
starting to see a meaningful contribution
from brand innovations.
Consumer demand remained strong 
during the year, particularly in our
developing markets. As a result, we’ve
continued to make significant investments
– some US$2.0 billion in total – in additional
production capacity, the provision of fridges
and the introduction of new bottles to
ensure we’re positioned to take advantage
of the growth in our markets. We’ve also
invested heavily in product and packaging
innovations.
Europe continued its very successful 
run with marketing and brand investments
producing gains in market share in our 
six largest markets and pushing organic
lager volumes up by 8%. Almost a third of
volumes came from local product and pack
innovations undertaken in the last three
years. The region has also seen robust
price growth with EBITA rising 30% as we
capitalise on the strength of our brands.
Chief Executive’s review
Success requires a broad, global spread of businesses, a full portfolio 
of brands, outstanding operational capability and talented people. 
As a result of consistently sticking to its strategic priorities, SABMiller 
has all these requisites in place.
Graham Mackay, Chief Executive
Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our priority, increasingly, is to identify the most valuable
segments of the markets we already serve and to make 
sure we capture a higher value share of these than our
competitors. We call this process ‘owning the growth’.
8 Chief Executive’s review
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
Chief Executive’s review continued
Our strategic priorities
Principal risks
The principal risks facing the group, which
have been considered by the board, are
detailed below. The group’s well developed
risk management process is detailed in 
the Corporate Governance section and 
our financial risks are discussed in note 22
to the consolidated financial statements.
The global brewing industry is expected to
continue to consolidate. Should the group 
not participate in attractive value-adding
transactions, this may inhibit its ability to
leverage additional scale benefits. While
participation in global consolidation provides
opportunities to access scale benefits, enter
growth markets and achieve benefits from the
group’s best operating practices, there is the
risk that expected benefits may not be captured
or may be inadequate, such that an appropriate
return on capital is not achieved over time. 
The group has continued to make significant
progress during the period with regard to
creating a balanced and attractive global spread
of businesses, as set out on pages 10 and 11.
The continued development of our marketing
and growth of our brand portfolios positions 
us well to benefit from changing consumer
preferences in both developed and developing
markets. However, markets continue to evolve
and competitor activity is increasing and
should the group fail to ensure the relevance
and attractiveness of its brands, and the
enhancement of brand marketing, there is 
the risk that significant growth opportunities
may not be realised. The group’s approach
and progress this year in terms of developing
strong, relevant brand portfolios in local
markets is set out on pages 12 and 13.
The group now operates on six continents 
and it is essential to develop and retain a
global management capability. Failure to
maintain this capability at a high level or
maintain our effective organisational leadership
process which can capture shared learnings
and leverage global synergies and expertise,
could jeopardise our growth potential. The
group’s approach to leveraging its global 
scale is detailed on pages 16 and 17.
In many countries, regulatory constraints 
and restrictions on alcohol products, including
sales and marketing activities, continue to 
be under the spotlight, and management
interacts with the relevant authorities wherever
appropriate. An increase in such impositions 
or in excise duties can have an adverse impact
on our business in those countries where 
such actions may take place. Details of the
group’s activities regarding responsible alcohol
consumption can be found in the sustainable
development review on pages 30 to 33. 
The supply of some brewing raw materials 
and packaging materials has been constrained
during the past two years, leading to supply
shortages and cost increases. Should the
group fail to ensure an adequate supply of
brewing and packaging raw materials at
competitive prices, there is the risk that
margins could fall. Mitigating factors for the 
risk of supply constraints and rising cost 
of raw materials are covered on page 14.
SABMiller has a clear strategic focus, at the centre of which are the four priorities set out below and discussed in more
detail on the following pages. Management use a range of indicators to monitor progress against these four priorities.
Some of the most important measures used are identified in the accompanying table and are expanded upon in the 
Chief Financial Officer’s review on pages 18 to 23.
Creating a balanced and
attractive global spread 
of businesses 
page 10
Our geographical spread of operations enables us to 
capture growth in total volumes in the developing markets,
and value growth as consumers around the world trade
upwards from economy to mainstream and from 
mainstream to premium brands.
7%
organic growth in
lager volumes
10%
group revenue growth
(organic constant 
currency)
Developing strong, 
relevant brand portfolios 
in the local market 
page 12
Our aim is to develop an attractive brand portfolio that 
meets consumers’ needs in each of our markets. In many
markets, because the growth is fastest at the top end, 
we’ve been focusing on our international premium brands,
such as Peroni Nastro Azzurro and regional brands such 
as Kozel in Europe.
0.5m
barrels of Miller Chill
sold in year one
11%
growth in premium
volume in Europe
Constantly raising 
the performance of 
local businesses
page 14
Good operational performance has always been 
an SABMiller strength. While operational standards are 
already high we are continually pushing them higher as
evidenced by growing EBITA and stable or rising margins.
9%
EBITA growth (organic
constant currency)
17.4%
consistent group 
EBITA margin
Leveraging our 
global scale 
page 16
We are leveraging our global scale to grow the business. 
Our business platform enables us, for example, to distribute
our international premium brands and build our regional
brands. In addition we are using our scale to transfer skills,
methods and our operational performance and efficiency.
18%
revenue CAGR for 
the last three years
72%
international growth 
of Peroni Nastro
Azzurro volumes Chief Executive’s review 9
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
Shorter term, with input costs remaining
high, it is critical to be able to secure the
raw materials we need at the lowest costs.
This key priority is discussed further on
page 14. 
Finally, we’re looking to grow by leveraging
our global scale. While allowing each
business a high degree of autonomy and
accountability, we’re setting up structures
and networks to foster collaboration, to
ensure standard ways of doing things
where this is helpful and to capture the
best ideas and practices and disperse
them quickly through the group. The
objective is to create a collaborative,
learning organisation in which the whole
becomes greater than the sum of the parts
and is better able to seize the opportunities
for growth.
We recognise that our people are critical 
to our success. We have a strong culture
of accountability and empowerment with
clearly defined performance goals and we
support our employees with world-class
training and development. Further details
are included on page 31.
Addressing risks
Like any organisation, we face a variety 
of risks. Recognising that risk is a fact of
business, presenting opportunity as well 
as threat, we aim to manage it in a way
that generates the best return for our
shareholders. The well developed risk-
management process described on pages
39 and 40 helps us to identify and monitor
the principal risks to the business and deal
with them appropriately. The principal risks 
we face are set out opposite while financial
risks are discussed on page 97. 
In summary
With the market positions we now occupy
and the strategies we’ve consistently
deployed, we believe that we’re well placed
to capture the growth opportunities in 
each market, to reinforce our competitive
advantages and to keep generating value
for our shareholders. 
Graham Mackay
Chief Executive
the global operators. However, we have
well established positions and a long 
track record of success in these types 
of markets. 
As time moves on, the opportunities 
to expand into new territories through
mergers and acquisitions are becoming
fewer. This means that while growth
through territorial expansion remains
important, our priority, increasingly, is 
to identify the most valuable segments 
of the markets we already serve and to
make sure we capture a higher value 
share of these than our competitors. 
We call this process ‘owning the growth’.
Owning the growth has to begin with 
a thorough analysis of consumer trends 
and marketplace dynamics. Before we 
can identify the opportunities, we need 
to understand the evolving tastes and
preferences of different groups of
consumers. Trends such as premiumisation,
fragmentation and the increasing importance
of female consumers will influence the way
we approach any given market. Then we
have to offer the right brands to the right
target audiences in order to capture the
growth where we think it exists. 
Here we benefit from a second of our
strengths – the ability to develop strong,
relevant brand portfolios for each local
market. Unlike some of our competitors,
we’ve never concentrated on just one
or two monolithic brands. Instead, we’ve
developed a spectrum of strong brands
from economy to premium, local to
international and traditional to experimental.
This is now turning out to be an advantage
as we now have a locker-full of brands with
which to address almost any segment of
any market where we see an opportunity.
The aim is to develop and deploy these
brands for maximum competitive
advantage in each local market. 
A third strength of our business is its
operational capability. Our strategy here is
to keep improving our day-to-day execution
by consistently and relentlessly raising the
performance of each local business. In our
manufacturing, our routes-to-market, our
sales processes and every other aspect of
our operations, we believe that long-term
success comes down in the end to superior
local execution, recognising that each of our
local markets has is own unique features. 
In South Africa, where SAB Ltd began 
the year with the loss of a major premium
brand to a competitor, overall volumes
remained level while mainstream volumes
grew satisfactorily by mid-single digits. 
The decline in premium volumes was
partially mitigated by the successful 
launch of Hansa Marzen Gold and 
growth in excess of 100% for Peroni
Nastro Azzurro. Soft drinks grew 4%
despite tough comparatives in the final
quarter. EBITA declined by 7%, reflecting a
weaker currency, rising costs in distribution
and brewing raw materials and investment
in our marketing and sales activities. 
Exploiting our strengths in 
a challenging marketplace
As the Chairman has indicated, 
economies in general and the brewing
sector in particular face tough new
challenges. Against the background of 
a global economic slowdown and rising
food price inflation, the current growth in
commodity prices means sharp increases
in the cost of our brewing and packaging
raw materials. At the same time, the
brewing industry continues to consolidate,
intensifying the competition within each
market. The retail environment is also
getting tougher as stores and supermarkets
claim more of the market from bars 
and restaurants where brewers’ margins
are higher. 
Meanwhile, as the global beer market
review on page 6 explains, consumers 
are seeking more choice and variety in 
their repertoire of drinks – a further trend 
to be factored into our strategy.
Succeeding in this challenging 
environment requires a broad, global
spread of businesses, a full portfolio of
brands, outstanding operational capability
and talented people. As a result of
sticking to the group’s strategic priorities,
discussed on pages 10 to 17, I believe
SABMiller is unique among the global
brewing companies in having all these
requisites in place. 
Our business portfolio, for example, 
gives us wide geographic coverage and
advantageous exposure to emerging
markets with above-average economic
growth. Other brewers have followed 
our lead into emerging markets and, as a
result, competition is increasing between
Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
