 Chief Executive’s review
Consistent strategy delivers growth
 We create value by being in the right markets, having the 
right brand portfolios, creating the right operating processes 
and building the right partnerships. 
Graham Mackay, Chief Executive
The group has delivered another strong 
performance, driven this year by the successful 
development of our brands and brand portfolios, 
better sales execution and rising consumer 
confidence in most of our developing markets. 
It’s particularly pleasing to see the progress we’ve 
made in growing revenue and improving margins, 
as these are two of our key drivers of value.
Group revenue grew by 11% as a result of higher 
beverage volumes, selective price increases 
and rising sales of our premium brands. EBITA 
increased by 12% (8% on an organic, constant 
currency basis), with the reported EBITA margin 
rising 10 bps to 17.9%.
Despite the challenges of the financial crisis, our 
strategic direction has remained constant. While 
it naturally evolves over time, the strategy we’re 
pursuing continues to be relevant and has enabled 
us to succeed even in trying circumstances. Our 
four strategic priorities, together with the measures 
we use to track progress and how we’ve performed 
this year, are set out on pages 20 and 21. 
To provide greater insight into how the business 
generates value for its shareholders and to meet 
the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, this year’s annual report offers further detail 
on our business model. Page 15 details the key 
components of this model – being in the right 
markets, having the right brand portfolio, creating 
the right operating processes and building the 
right partnerships. The past year has seen strong 
progress in each case. 
Being in the right markets 
In line with our first strategic priority, we’ve 
continued to build a balanced and attractive global 
spread of businesses – one that combines generally 
profitable, mature markets with high-growth, 
developing markets characterised by strong economic 
fundamentals and rising levels of disposable income.
 We’re well represented in 
many of the world’s fastest- 
growing countries. 
At the mature end of the portfolio, we have leading 
positions in some of the world’s most profitable 
developed markets, for example through MillerCoors 
in the USA. Here the focus is on enhancing 
value and building profit margins by offering local 
premium and global brands and developing craft 
beers and other malt-based beverages.
In emerging markets, we’re well represented (either 
directly or through partnerships and alliances) in the 
world’s fastest-growing countries, including China, 
India and many African markets. We also have a 
strong presence in the developing regions of Latin 
America and Central and Eastern Europe. In these 
markets our focus is on volume and value growth, 
achieved by providing high-quality, aspirational brands 
at a range of prices to cater for all income levels. 
At 76%, the proportion of our group EBITA coming 
from developing or emerging economies remains 
the highest in the brewing sector. 
76%
Proportion of group 
EBITA from developing 
or emerging economies
14 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012
