 Chairman’s statement
Significant progress and strong results
 The year has seen further excellent progress. 
Growing consumer demand in developing markets 
has helped to secure another strong set of results 
and our global footprint has continued to expand. 
Meyer Kahn, Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
In my final letter as Chairman, I am delighted to 
report another year of significant progress and 
strong results. As we predicted 12 months ago, 
markets were difficult in Europe and North America 
but consumer demand continued to grow in most 
developing economies. Through successful 
marketing, product innovation and skilful commercial 
execution, we were able to build on our position 
in the world’s developing consumer markets.
Results and dividend
Beverage volumes totalled 286 million hectolitres, 
up 6% with lager volumes up 5% and soft drinks 
volumes up 8%. Group revenue grew by 11% 
(7% on an organic, constant currency basis) as 
a result of higher volumes, focused price increases 
and our efforts to increase the premium element 
in our brand mix. 
Reported earnings before interest, tax and 
amortisation (EBITA) grew by 12% (8% on an 
organic, constant currency basis) and EBITA margin 
was 10 bps ahead of the prior year at 17.9%. Group 
revenue growth offset increases in raw material 
costs while marketing investment rose in line with 
revenue and fixed costs increased as a result 
of expenditure on sales and systems capabilities. 
Profit before tax was up 55%, after the inclusion 
of exceptional gains in the year. 
Finance costs were 7% higher than the prior year 
and the effective tax rate was 27.5%. Adjusted 
earnings per share were up 12% at 214.8 US cents, 
while basic earnings per share were 266.6 US cents.
The group’s free cash flow was US$3,048 million, 
an increase of US$560 million over the prior year. 
Working capital cash inflows of US$258 million 
continued recent positive trends. 
Capital expenditure was US$1,639 million, a 
rise of US$324 million as we increased production 
capacity, particularly in Africa. Net debt at 31 March 
2012 was US$17,862 million. This was higher than 
the previous financial year-end, primarily due to 
the Foster’s acquisition. 
The board has recommended a final dividend of 
69.5 US cents per share to be paid to shareholders 
on 17 August 2012. This brings the total dividend for 
the year to 91 US cents, an increase of 10 US cents 
(12%) over the prior year.
Operational highlights
The year saw strong performance in most of our 
developing markets. Latin America and Africa were 
particularly notable while South Africa and Asia 
Pacific also generated significant, profitable growth. 
With the exception of Europe, all beverage divisions 
contributed to EBITA growth.
Latin America produced EBITA growth of 15% 
(14% on an organic, constant currency basis). 
Lager volumes increased by 8% on an organic 
basis with soft drinks volumes growing 10% on 
the same basis. Strong revenue growth reflected 
a combination of higher volumes, selective price 
increases and favourable mix, though these were 
partly offset by higher commodity costs. The region 
also benefited from manufacturing efficiencies. 
Castle Lager
Origin: South Africa
First brewed: 1895
www.sab.co.za
First brewed in 1895 by founder brewer, Charles Glass, 
Castle Lager enjoys worldwide recognition as the beer 
that brings friends together. Dedicated to excellence, 
it is brewed using the finest quality ingredients to provide 
an engaging taste that always invites another. 
91 US cents
Total dividend per share, 
an increase of 12%
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 7
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Chairman’s statement continued
286m hl
Total beverage volumes 
sold during the year
AUD180m
Cost savings identified 
in Australian acquisition
In Europe, EBITA declined by 6% (9% on an 
organic, constant currency basis) while lager 
volumes fell by 1% on an organic basis. Poland and 
Romania were particularly affected by discounting 
and poor consumer sentiment, with EBITA down 
in both countries. Other markets generally saw 
stronger financial performance with good growth 
in premium brands. Across the region, EBITA was 
affected by significant increases in raw material 
costs. Against this background, our regional 
manufacturing project continued to deliver 
cost efficiencies.
In North America, EBITA grew by 2%. MillerCoors’ 
sales to wholesalers fell by 3% with sales to retailers 
down 2% as economic pressures continued to affect 
key consumer groups. The Tenth and Blake crafts 
and imports division saw double-digit growth. The 
increase in EBITA was mainly a result of revenue 
growth from pricing and favourable brand mix along 
with cost savings partly offset by higher raw material 
and distribution costs and investment in systems. 
In Africa, lager volumes increased by 13% and 
soft drinks volumes by 11% on an organic basis. 
EBITA grew by 15% (16% on an organic, constant 
currency basis), driven by volume growth, 
pricing and mix benefits, cost efficiencies and 
the raw material cost benefits of local agricultural 
programmes. These were partly offset by higher 
sales and marketing investment, inflationary 
pressures and currency weakness. 
Lager volumes in Asia Pacific increased by 4% on 
an organic basis, with reported volumes significantly 
higher as a result of both the inclusion of Foster’s 
since 16 December 2011 and acquisitions in China. 
Reported EBITA grew by 247%, mainly due to the 
addition of Foster’s. On an organic, constant currency 
basis, EBITA grew by 30% with good growth in both 
China and India. 
In South Africa, lager and soft drinks volumes 
both grew by 2%. Reported EBITA was up by 9% 
(14% on a constant currency basis), benefiting from 
favourable pricing and mix and with supply chain 
productivity offsetting the impact of higher raw 
material costs. Further reductions in operating costs 
enabled the business to fund higher market-facing 
investments in support of its brands.
Continuing expansion
The year saw further progress in expanding 
our geographic footprint and brewing capacity, 
consistent with our strategy of creating a balanced 
and attractive global spread of businesses. 
The main advance was the acquisition of Foster’s 
in Australia. With 11 breweries including cideries, 
Foster’s is a substantial business and our largest-
ever acquisition by value. 
The Foster’s deal gives us a highly cash-generative 
brewing business with a portfolio of iconic brands 
and a leading position in a stable and profitable 
beer market. Adding to its attractions are Australia’s 
sound economic growth prospects and expanding 
population. In addition, the business provides 
opportunities for financial and operational 
improvement as we apply our global skills and the 
benefits of scale in areas such as procurement. We 
have already identified AUD180 million in operating 
profit synergies and a range of initiatives for boosting 
performance. We welcome Foster’s employees into 
the group and I thank them for their cooperation 
and hard work during the integration process.
Share price performance 
from 1 April 2009 to 24 May 2012 (£ sterling)
30
25
20
15
10
May 2012 Apr 2009 Oct 2009 Apr 2010 Oct 2010 Oct 2011 Apr 2011
International Brewers Index +53.4%
FTSE 100 +35.3%
SABMiller +124.5%
Source: Factset and Datastream as at 24 May 2012
Note: Share prices are rebased to SABMiller; the International Brewers Index charts the share price progression of an index 
of the company's closest peers in the global brewing industry – Anheuser-Busch InBev, Carlsberg, Heineken and Molson 
Coors, relative to 1 April 2009. The index is weighted relative to the market capitalisation of the brewers as at 1 April 2009
8 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 US$260m
Investment in new 
capacity in Africa
The year’s second major transaction was our 
strategic alliance with the Turkish beer and soft 
drinks business, Anadolu Efes, under which we 
have transferred our Russian and Ukrainian beer 
businesses to Anadolu Efes in return for a 24% 
stake in the enlarged Anadolu Efes group. Anadolu 
Efes will now be the vehicle for both groups’ 
investments in Turkey, Russia, the Commonwealth 
of Independent States (CIS), Central Asia and the 
Middle East. As well as leading the beer and soft 
drinks markets in Turkey, Anadolu Efes has strong 
positions in Kazakhstan, Moldova and Georgia, 
all of which are developing fast. In Russia, the 
combined business has a strong number two 
position and is benefiting from greater scale, 
an attractive portfolio of brands and cost synergy 
opportunities amounting to at least US$120 million. 
The two partners will share best practice and 
Anadolu Efes will develop SABMiller’s international 
brands across the territory. 
We have also developed our strategic alliance 
with Castel in Africa. We are now responsible for the 
operational management of the Nigerian businesses 
while Castel has taken over the running of the 
Angolan businesses.
In China, our CR Snow joint venture continued 
its expansion with a number of bolt-on additions 
including the acquisition of the remaining interest 
in Hangzhou Xihu Breweries from Asahi Breweries. 
The moves further consolidate CR Snow’s 
leading position. 
Along with widening our geographic footprint, we 
have continued to invest in capacity. In response  
to rising demand in Africa, we have already invested 
US$1,500 million in the continent over the last five 
years. But such is Africa’s rate of growth that 
demand continues to outstrip supply and we now 
need even more capacity. We have consequently 
embarked on a US$260 million programme to 
build a new brewery in Uganda and add capacity 
in Ghana, Zambia and Tanzania. The projects 
announced last year – the new brewery in Nigeria 
and the major expansion in South Sudan – are 
progressing well.
In November 2011, we also announced a US$295 
million capital investment programme to increase 
capacity and support future brewery expansion 
at our Peruvian subsidiary. 
As a result of this continued expansion, we 
now have operations in over 75 countries on six 
continents with breweries in such far-flung places 
as the Gobi Desert, the High Andes, the banks of 
the Nile and the Tasman coast. 
Building a global leader
As one of the world’s largest and most respected 
brewers with strong positions in every region, 
SABMiller has come a long way from its origins at 
the foot of Africa. On the eve of my retirement, I am 
proud of the group’s achievements over the years. 
Looking back, the trigger for our international 
growth was the recognition by the board of 
South African Breweries, as it was then, that global 
consolidation was about to hit the worldwide beer 
business as it had done other consumer goods 
sectors such as food and soft drinks. At this point  
in the late 1980s, the beer industry largely consisted 
of local and regional businesses, many still run by 
the founding families. We saw an opportunity to 
lead the consolidation that we knew was coming 
and we took it.
Starting close to home in Africa, we began 
to acquire brewing assets – typically from 
governments wanting to privatise. Many had 
been neglected under public ownership, so were 
relatively cheap to buy. Our strategy was then to 
establish market leadership and build local brands. 
Next we applied the rigorous operational disciplines 
learned in South Africa to drive down costs, 
achieve world-class standards in our breweries 
and distribute our products more efficiently. 
From a position of leadership, we then sought 
to enhance the industry’s business practices, 
market responsibly and initiate local social 
investment programmes. 
 We’ve continued to expand our 
geographic footprint, consistent 
with our strategy of creating a 
balanced and attractive global 
spread of businesses. 
Moving out from Africa, we began acquiring 
businesses in newly liberalised Eastern Europe 
and the vast emerging market of China. As our 
growth continued, we clearly needed access to 
further capital. In 1999, therefore, we took the 
major step of moving to London and listing on 
the London Stock Exchange. Further expansion 
followed. In 2002, the addition of Miller in the USA 
took us into the global beer industry’s biggest profit 
pool. Despite widespread scepticism that a brewer 
from South Africa could succeed in the world’s 
most sophisticated consumer market, we knew the 
move was necessary if SABMiller was to continue 
playing a decisive role in the industry’s 
consolidation. And succeed we did. 
Kilimanjaro
Origin: Tanzania
First brewed: 1996
www.kilitimetz.com
Named after the iconic mountain and better known 
in its home market of Tanzania as ‘Kili’, this crisp, mild, 
easy-drinking, refreshing natural lager is light in colour 
with a slightly bitter taste. 
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 9
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Chairman’s statement continued
£790
Return on £100 invested 
in SABMiller in 1999
 19.0%
Rolling annualised 
five-year total shareholder 
return since 1999
In the past decade we have added Birra Peroni in 
Europe, the Bavaria group in Latin America, Foster’s 
in Australia and many other brewers and brands, 
from the small and specialised to the pan-regional. 
The decision to move out from South Africa and 
to take on the world has succeeded beyond the 
expectations of those of us involved at the time.
Of course we cannot measure our success simply 
by the territory we cover. As brewers, we succeed 
by making beers that are the first choice of our 
consumers, wherever they live and whatever 
their circumstances. So as well as building our 
geographic portfolio and striving to be the best 
operationally, we have had to develop our skills 
in creating, marketing and nurturing great 
brands that add to our consumers’ enjoyment 
of life. Again, we can claim to have succeeded. 
 Given that SABMiller’s success 
depends on flourishing local 
communities, we aim to be a force 
for good in the societies in which 
we operate. 
By running successful businesses, we have also 
contributed to the social and economic wellbeing 
of the countries in which we operate. We have 
always known that business and society are 
inter-dependent and that SABMiller’s growth 
depends on flourishing local communities. So 
as well as creating jobs and paying taxes, we have 
constantly sought to stimulate local enterprise and 
to work with governments, NGOs and others on 
issues of common concern such as water, energy 
and food security. We have also taken a lead in 
tackling the abuse of alcohol by small minorities 
of consumers in our various markets. I’m proud 
to think that SABMiller has been a consistent force 
for good in its local communities. 
Our success in all these areas is reflected in 
the value we have created for our shareholders. 
£100 invested in SABMiller in 1999 would have 
grown to £790 as at 31 March 2012, compared 
with just £200 if invested in our peer group median 
and just £144 if invested in the FTSE 100 index. 
Over this period, our rolling annualised five-year 
total shareholder return has been a remarkable 
19.0% compared with 1.9% for the FTSE 100 index. 
The group’s results, both in the past year and 
longer term, are testimony to the high calibre of 
our directors, managers and employees. They are, 
undoubtedly, among the best in the industry and 
I thank them all – along with our business partners 
– for the skills and dedication that have helped to 
establish such an enviable and sustained record. 
An abiding lesson of my career is that beer is a 
personal business. More than any other, it’s about 
people, friendship, camaraderie and a sense of 
connection with fellow workers, customers, 
consumers and communities. Appropriately 
in an industry devoted to enjoyment, my career 
at SABMiller has been tremendous fun and I’ve 
been privileged to work with a great many talented, 
principled and remarkable people, my current board 
colleagues among them. While it would be invidious 
to single out individuals, I must pay tribute to 
Graham Mackay who’s been instrumental in 
building the group we know today. I leave 
with enormous gratitude for his friendship and 
support, knowing that the business continues 
in excellent hands. 
Succession and board changes
My retirement will take effect at this year’s Annual 
General Meeting on 26 July 2012. At that point, 
Graham Mackay will take over as Executive 
Chairman for an interim period of one year and 
Alan Clark, currently Managing Director of SABMiller 
Europe, will become an executive director and 
Chief Operating Officer. At the end of the interim 
period, the intention is that Graham will become 
Non-Executive Chairman and that Alan will 
succeed him as Chief Executive. 
We acknowledge the recommendation in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code that a chief executive 
should not go on to be chairman of the same 
company and that the roles of chairman and chief 
executive should not be exercised by the same 
individual. Nevertheless, after long deliberation,  
we believe that these appointments are in the  
best interests of SABMiller and its shareholders. 
In selecting my successor, the board carefully 
considered the requirements of the job in the 
context of the group’s size and geographic spread. 
We agreed that the new Chairman must be able 
to provide stability and continuity, must understand 
both the global brewing industry and the particular 
challenges of the emerging markets in which we 
operate, must be familiar with our ways of working 
and able to enhance our corporate culture and 
operational performance and must be competent  
to oversee the completion of the business capability 
programme currently under way. Against these 
criteria, the nomination committee concluded that 
Graham Mackay was the outstanding candidate. 
10 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 This decision has the unanimous support of the 
directors and the strong backing of our two major 
shareholders and was made after discussions 
with major institutional investors. Graham is 
highly regarded in the industry and among our 
stakeholders and we firmly believe he’s the 
right person to lead the board and to represent 
SABMiller externally at the highest level.
Alan Clark, similarly, is ideally qualified to succeed 
Graham as Chief Executive and his appointment 
is unanimously supported by your directors. His 
22 years with the group include positions as 
Marketing Director for the South African beer 
business and Managing Director of the group’s 
soft drinks operations in South Africa. In 2003 
he joined the group’s executive committee and 
was appointed Managing Director of SABMiller 
Europe. During his tenure he built this business 
into one of the group’s strongest and fastest-
growing divisions, recording successive years 
of double-digit earnings growth between 2003 
and 2009. In the tough conditions of the last three 
years, he has successfully protected the division’s 
profitability through cost management and 
operational improvements. 
Any individual stepping up from an operating role  
to the chief executive’s position in a global group 
will inevitably need time to absorb the complexities 
of the business. This is particularly so in light of  
the group’s many external relationships and 
partnerships and the varied challenges it faces 
in different markets and regions around the world. 
Accordingly, the board has decided that a staged 
handover of responsibilities will ensure appropriate 
continuity and best serve the interests of the group 
and its shareholders. Hence the one-year interim 
period before the intended change of roles at the 
2013 Annual General Meeting. 
 The senior management  
changes are consistent with the 
group’s long-standing policy of 
developing strong leaders within 
the business. 
Job specifications setting out the respective 
authorities and responsibilities of the Executive 
Chairman and Chief Operating Officer have 
been agreed by the board and the directors are 
confident that Graham and Alan will continue to 
work effectively together during the transition 
and thereafter. Any risk of an over-concentration 
of decision-making powers in one person will be 
mitigated by the fact that John Manser, our senior 
independent non-executive director and chairman 
of the audit committee, will in addition become 
Deputy Chairman of the board.
Alan’s successor as Managing Director of SABMiller 
Europe will be Sue Clark who has been our Director 
of Corporate Affairs and a member of the group 
executive committee since 2003. Sue has a deep 
understanding of the group and its culture and 
the right mix of skills to take our European 
business forward.
In December 2011 Ari Mervis was appointed 
Managing Director Asia Pacific and Chief Executive 
Officer of Foster’s with responsibility for integrating 
Foster’s into the SABMiller group. Having been 
Managing Director of SABMiller Asia since 2007,  
Ari continues his role as Chairman of our Chinese 
joint venture, CR Snow. 
All these appointments are consistent with the 
group’s long-standing policy of developing strong 
leaders within the business. Having also appointed 
five new independent non-executive directors over 
the past four years, we remain committed to our 
policy of progressively renewing the board and the 
independent directors in terms of age, gender and 
balance of skills. In line with that policy, it is also  
the board’s intention now to begin the process 
of recruiting a new independent non-executive 
director, with the expectation that in due course 
he or she could become the senior independent 
director in succession to Mr Manser.
Rob Pieterse will retire after this year’s Annual 
General Meeting after four years as an independent 
non-executive director. Rob has been a diligent 
director and we are sorry to lose him – though we 
will still have the benefit of his wisdom in his capacity 
as Chairman of the supervisory board of Royal 
Grolsch NV in the Netherlands. We are grateful for 
his contribution during his time at SABMiller and we 
wish him the very best for the future. 
Outlook
Trading conditions are expected to be broadly 
unchanged with further growth in our developing 
markets but no more than modest improvements 
in consumer spending in some more developed 
economies. We will continue to develop and 
differentiate our brand portfolios, taking 
opportunities to improve sales mix and raise prices 
selectively. Unit input costs are expected to rise 
in mid-single digits in constant currency terms. 
Focus will be maintained on cost effectiveness, 
including synergy delivery in Australia, and on 
expanding our globally-managed procurement 
programmes. While healthy cash generation will 
again be a priority, targeted investments in 
production capacity, marketing and sales capability 
and business systems will continue in order to drive 
medium-term growth.
Meyer Kahn
Chairman
Carlton Dry
Origin: Australia
First brewed: 2007
www.carltondry.com.au
Carlton Dry’s exceptional dry finish is achieved through a special 
brewing process, removing sugars over an extended period of 
time. This creates a remarkably smooth, crisp finish with less 
carbohydrate than other full-strength beers. 
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 11
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
