 Chairman’s statement
4 Chairman’s statement SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to report another robust
performance from your company. We all know
that things have been tough this year. Not
only did we face softening consumer demand,
we also had to contend with an increase in
commodity costs and a strengthening US
dollar. So it’s especially pleasing to have
delivered such creditable results.
Total beverage volumes grew 2% to 260 million
hectolitres, with reported lager volumes also
rising 2% to 210 million hectolitres including
acquisitions in Europe, Africa and Asia.
Without the acquisitions, lager volumes 
were level with the prior year.
Earnings before interest, tax and 
amortisation (EBITA) grew 5% on an organic,
constant currency basis. This underlying
profit growth is quite an achievement in these
challenging times and shows the operational
strengths of our businesses, which we have
built over many years, and the power of 
their leading local brands. On a reported
basis, however, results were impacted by 
the strengthening of the US dollar against 
our major operating currencies. Reported
EBITA at US$4,129 million was therefore 
flat, and profit before tax decreased 9% 
to US$2,958 million reflecting the impact 
of exceptional items and increased net
finance costs.
Despite EBITA being level with the prior year,
adjusted earnings per share in US dollars
declined by 4% on the prior year, due to a
significant increase in net finance costs which
was partly offset by a lower effective tax rate.
However, in sterling terms earnings per share
gained 12% and 19% in South African rand. 
We continued to invest in the business, with
capital expenditure during the year totalling
some US$2,100 million and acquisitions a
further US$300 million. Despite this very
significant investment, net debt at the year
end was lower than the prior year and the
group remains financially strong.
In view of this performance, the board has
recommended a final dividend of 42 US
cents per share to be paid to shareholders
on 28 August 2009. This brings the total
dividend for the year to 58 US cents,
unchanged from the prior year. 
Market overview
While certainly not immune to the current
crisis, beer is a fairly resilient product and
SABMiller is better placed than many to
weather the storm. Thanks, partly, to our
long experience of emerging markets, we are
used to operating under difficult conditions. 
If we look back ten years to our London stock
market listing, it is worth remembering that the
Asian currency crisis at that time had shaken
investor confidence in emerging markets and
that the outlook was far from encouraging.
Nevertheless, we prospered and grew and
achieved the international expansion that our
listing was intended to facilitate. Since our
London listing in 1999, we have moved from
88th to 17th place in the FTSE 100. Our
market capitalisation has grown from
US$5,503 million to US$22,415 million as at
31 March 2009 and total shareholder return
over the period stands at 204% compared
to minus 12% for the FTSE 100.
Ten years on, our geographic spread is
proving to be an advantage in that different
countries are affected by the crisis at different
rates and to differing degrees. So while demand
in Europe has dropped sharply, countries in
emerging markets such as Africa and Asia
have fared relatively well despite falling back
from the high – one might say unsustainable
– rates of growth of recent years. 
Another of our advantages, as our Chief
Executive explains more fully on pages 7 to 11,
is a consistent and robust strategy, effectively
implemented. Although the strategy continues
to evolve to take account of new conditions,
its essential elements remain unchanged.
We have continued, for example, to develop
our international portfolio of businesses. 
The year’s highlight was the formation of 
the MillerCoors joint venture in the US.
Having started operations on 1 July 2008,
MillerCoors is making good progress and is
more than meeting its cost-saving targets.
We are also judiciously expanding our
geographic footprint in other parts of the
world where it makes sense to do so. In the
past year we’ve acquired one of the larger
breweries in the Ukraine and a beer and 
malt operation in Nigeria, each marking our
first entry to the country in question. In the
case of Nigeria, the move takes us into the
only major African market in which SABMiller
did not previously have a presence. 
Investment in existing markets has 
continued with the acquisition, by our
associate CR Snow, of three breweries in 
the Anhui, Liaoning and Zhejiang provinces
of China. We have also acquired the
remaining 50% interest in our Vietnamese
brewing business and in May 2009 we
acquired the outstanding 28.1% minority
interest in our Polish subsidiary, Kompania
Piwowarska. Elsewhere we bought the
Vladpivo brewing company in Russia and
Bere Azuga in Romania to strengthen our
positions in these countries. We are also
building new brewing facilities in Russia,
Tanzania, Mozambique and Angola with 
a brewery recently completed in southern
Sudan. Further investment has gone into
sales and marketing and assets such as
bottles and fridges. 
With the bulk of these investments 
behind us, we expect to reduce our 
capital expenditure from its peak of almost
US$2,100 million in the year just ended to
US$1,500 million in the current year, to the
benefit of our cash flow. We are also reaping
the benefits of steady investment in our
brands and the development of the beer
category as a whole. Even in countries badly
affected by the recession, the brand equity
we’ve now created enables us to claim a
rising share of the total alcohol market while
also in many cases growing our revenues. 
This has been a good year for SABMiller. In difficult economic
conditions, we have drawn on our strengths, addressed the
many opportunities in our markets and produced a creditable
set of results.
Meyer Kahn, Chairman SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Chairman’s statement 5
Operational highlights
Perhaps the most pleasing performance this
year was in North America where EBITA
grew 22%. The new leadership team at
MillerCoors has moved quickly to bring the
two businesses together and achieve the
cost savings we identified prior to the deal.
In fact these savings are coming through
faster than expected. The team has delivered
outstanding profit growth through strong
revenue management, cost efficiencies 
and the vigorous execution of its strategy. 
There were mixed performances in Latin
America where organic lager volumes overall
grew by 1%. A combination of cost reductions,
strong pricing and a shift to premium
products has improved the margin and
achieved a 10% increase in reported EBITA.
In Europe, the sharp deterioration in the
economy has squeezed consumer spending.
Nevertheless, we maintained our lager
volumes, on an organic basis, and gained
share in some of our markets. After several
years of double digit growth, however,
reported EBITA in Europe showed a small 
fall of 1%. 
Africa performed extremely well, growing
total beverage volumes by around 10%
organically with notable performances from
Tanzania and Angola. Sales in Botswana,
however, were severely affected by the
introduction of a new levy on alcohol.
In Asia, lager volume growth at CR Snow 
in China slowed to 4% organically through 
a combination of the weaker economy, the
poor weather at the start of the year and the
earthquake in Sichuan, an important province
for the business. India, with its difficult regulatory
environment, saw volumes increasing by
5%. For reporting purposes we continue to
combine the results for Africa and Asia: on
a joint basis reported EBITA was up 13%. 
Finally, volumes in South Africa were slightly
down on the previous year, and the weaker
currency exacerbated increases in commodity
costs. Despite some strong pricing across
lager and soft drinks, both margin and profits
suffered, with reported EBITA down 26%.
Sustainable development
Whatever the conditions, we will not
compromise our commitment to operating
more sustainably and benefiting the
communities in which we work. Among 
other initiatives this year, we’ve committed
ourselves to reducing further the amount 
of water we use per litre of lager by 25% 
over the next six years and to cutting fossil
fuel emissions per litre of lager by 50% by 
2020. To foster local enterprise in emerging
markets, we have plans to raise the number
of local farmers from whom we buy our 
raw materials from 22,000 at present to
60,000 by 2012. 
The past year has also seen the launch of our
TalkingAlcohol.com website which provides
accurate and balanced information about
responsible consumption. While the vast
majority of our customers enjoy alcohol
responsibly, the small minority of irresponsible
drinkers can cause problems and we’re
working with partners to address the issue. 
More details of these and other sustainable
development initiatives can be found on
pages 38 to 41 of this report. 
Board and executive
We were delighted this year to welcome
Norman Adami back to the group as
Managing Director and Chairman of SAB Ltd
in South Africa. Formerly President and CEO
of SABMiller Americas, Norman was obliged
to resign in 2007 to attend to urgent family
matters in South Africa. With these issues
now resolved, he is able to return to a role 
he last held in 2003. 
Norman’s predecessor in South Africa, 
Tony van Kralingen, has been appointed
Director of Supply Chain and Human
Resources for the SABMiller group. His new 
role emphasises our determination to gain
maximum value from our global scale. 
Our former Human Resources Director,
Johann Nel, has retired from the group.
Johann has made an exceptional
contribution over the last seven years 
and he leaves with our gratitude and 
very best wishes.
Among our non-executives, we are sorry that
Maria Ramos has had to step down at the
request of the South African banking regulator
following her appointment as Chief Executive
of ABSA. Although she was only with us for a
few months, we greatly valued her contribution. 
With effect from 1 June 2009, Dr Dambisa
Moyo has been appointed as a new non-
executive director. Dambisa is an economist
and commentator on Africa who has held
positions at Goldman Sachs and the World
Bank and she will add much value to our
deliberations. Her appointment will also enhance
the balance between the independent and
the non-independent directors on the board.
In addition to thanking all those who have
served on our board this year, I must also
express my gratitude to our executives,
managers and staff who have shown
tremendous dedication and skill in challenging
circumstances. We are grateful, too, to our
business partners and to you, our shareholders,
for your support during the year. 
Outlook 
In summary, the group delivered resilient
underlying results, despite the strong
headwinds that we faced. Global economic
conditions and consumer demand weakened
during the year and there remains little
visibility as to the timing of any recovery. 
In the current year we expect commodity
cost pressures to continue, given existing
contractual arrangements. In addition, the
currency translation effect of the stronger 
US dollar will impact our reported results.
However, the group remains confident in 
its medium-term prospects. We are taking
appropriate short-term mitigating actions in
certain countries to reduce costs. Investment
plans have been reviewed and curtailed
where necessary in the light of expected
economic conditions, but we continue to
invest selectively to support growth. The
group remains in a strong financial position,
and we are confident that we will continue 
to benefit from the strength of our brands
and our globally diversified and well balanced
portfolio of businesses.
Meyer Kahn Chairman
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Share price 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2009
(£ sterling)
15
11
13
9
7
SABMiller International brewers index FTSE 100
Source: Thomson Datastream
04 05 06 07 08 09
