 14 Strategic priority three
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
Strategic priority three
Constantly raising the performance 
of local businesses
Introducing 430 million new returnable bottles in South Africa
Mainstream brands in South Africa have normally been sold in returnable quart 
bottles. Although standardisation made the product more affordable, it was hard 
to add distinctive labelling and the bottles themselves gradually became outdated.
The business therefore made a decision in 2007 to invest around US$70 million 
to replace its entire quart bottle stock in a phased project lasting 18 months. 
As well as using less glass, the new bottle shape has improved the image of the
mainstream category and lends itself to new labelling technology which in turn 
makes for stronger brand differentiation.
Running from April 2007, the project is a massive logistical task involving the
introduction of 430 million new bottles. The phased roll-out limits the company’s
flexibility to move stock around the country and infrastructure challenges have 
created further complications. Shortages of glass, for example, have required 
new sourcing from as far away as the Middle East. Despite the difficult logistics, 
the results are coming through as evidenced by a return to growth in the 
mainstream segment.
old new
While our operating performance compares well with 
that of the rest of the industry, we know we have to keep
improving to stay ahead. Our efforts in the past year 
have focused on three main aspects of the business.
The first is to become more efficient, especially in our manufacturing.
Because efficiency is part of our day-to-day management, we’ve
already gone a long way down this route and the opportunity for
further, large, cost-cutting projects is limited. Nevertheless, the 
rise in commodity costs compels us to do whatever we can to
counteract the squeeze on our margins. We’ve seen good
progress across the group, notably from Miller which again made
important savings in its brewing operations while producing less
waste and using fewer resources. 
The second area of focus – and one that’s hugely important to 
our success – is to improve our routes to market, both to remove
costs and to ensure that the right products reach the right outlets
in the right condition, accompanied by the right messages and
merchandising material. Colombia and South Africa are just two 
of several businesses that are working hard to re-engineer their
sales and distribution structures to make them more efficient and
effective. In markets such as the USA, where the business does 
not directly control its distribution, we’re making it easier for
distributors and customers to do business with SABMiller and are
looking for ways to add value to their operations as well as ours.
Thirdly, in our quest to raise local performance, we’re responding to
the consolidation of the retail sector by forming mutually beneficial
partnerships with major retailers. Our Polish business, for example,
has forged a closer relationship with Tesco while Miller has done
the same with chains such as Wal-Mart and 7-Eleven. 
The case studies on these two pages describe in more detail
some of the many ways in which SABMiller businesses around 
the world are improving their operating performance. 
Dealing with rising input costs 
The past two years have seen an unprecedented rise in 
the price of inputs, namely barley and hops for brewing 
and glass and aluminium for packaging. As one of the 
largest global buyers of these items, we have procurement
strategies for managing our risks and mitigating the impact. 
Thanks to our scale, we can procure more efficiently by
coordinating our buying effort globally but sourcing locally
according to where particular expertise lies. Europe, for
example, buys a significant amount of malt for the group 
while aluminium is purchased in the USA where the bulk of 
our cans are produced. This approach has helped to limit 
the increases in our commodity costs compared to prices 
on the open market. 
In addition, we have specific risk-management policies to 
limit our exposure to commodity market volatility. We use
hedging strategies to supplement long-term contracts with
suppliers in order to ensure supplies at target prices. In the
past year we’ve been able to limit the increase in the cost of
goods per hectolitre of beer produced (in constant currency) 
to mid-single digits – a successful result.  Strategic priority three 15
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Developing relationships with large retailers
Expanding production in Colombia
After the transaction with Bavaria, SABMiller decided that production standards in all its
Latin American breweries should be lifted to the same stringent levels as in the rest of 
the group, to ensure that consumers enjoyed the highest quality of beer. As this included
fermenting the beer for longer, the move put further pressure on capacity at a time when
the local business was struggling to meet rapidly growing demand. 
In response, SABMiller has built a new brewery in extremely quick time on a site 
already earmarked by Bavaria for a future plant. The Valle facility in Colombia is based 
on Bavaria’s original plans with modifications to take account of SABMiller’s worldwide
experience and the need to meet the highest efficiency and environmental standards.
Operating since March 2008 and now the most advanced brewery in Colombia, the 
plant is capable of producing 180,000 bottles of beer an hour. 
The US$220 million Valle project is just one example of the heavy investment going 
on around the world to keep pace with rising demand for SABMiller’s beers.
Miller: Lower costs and a
smaller carbon footprint
In 2007, Miller embarked on Project
Unicorn with the aim of continuously
improving its operations and making
further savings in packaging, freight,
waste, utilities and maintenance. 
The programme incorporates the
principles of World Class Manufacturing
whereby employees are empowered to
search for solutions that cut the number
of stoppages on the production line. 
The resulting improvements have taken
Miller’s overall equipment effectiveness
to an all-time high of 74.9%.
Reducing the diameter of Miller’s 
can ends has cut the company’s use 
of aluminium by over 560 tonnes per
year – the equivalent of all the aluminium 
in 2.2 million cases of beer. A new
anaerobic wastewater treatment plant 
at one of Miller’s plants now generates
enough biogas to produce a megawatt
of electricity for the brewery each hour –
again saving energy and costs and
reducing the company’s carbon footprint. 
Seventeen months on from its launch,
Project Unicorn is on track to achieve 
its target of reducing costs by 
US$120 million over three years. 
Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
In some markets, consumers are
increasingly buying their beer from
supermarkets and other retailers rather
than ordering it in bars and restaurants.
This presents a challenge to brewers in
that margins on retail sales tend to be
tighter. The difficulty is compounded
as the retail sector consolidates and
drives margins still lower.
Against this background, it’s important 
to learn how to work with retailers 
and ensure we become the preferred
supplier wherever possible. To this 
end, our Polish business has forged
relationships with Tesco and E.Leclerc
that involve developing joint plans for
store layouts and sales and promotions.
The Polish team has drawn on
SABMiller’s knowledge of consumers
and its skills in marketing to design 
new ways of displaying and promoting
its products in-store. These are now 
in place in three Polish hypermarkets –
two Tescos and one E.Leclerc. 
Thanks to this new relationship, 
Tesco Poland has made SABMiller’s
Polish subsidiary its principal beer
supplier and the business is now the
nationwide leader in hypermarkets and
supermarkets. Shoppers increasingly
perceive SABMiller brands as segment
leaders and both SABMiller and Tesco
are benefiting from a rise in sales.
Miller in the USA has made 
similar progress in understanding 
the objectives and strategies of the 
big national retail chains and is 
working with them to add value to 
the relationship. As a result, its sales
with the big four – Wal-Mart, 7-Eleven,
Kroger and Supervalu – are growing
faster than its sales overall.
