 Business review | Our business and markets
Marketplace overview
Market leading brands
Brand leadership
Sage is one of the leading global suppliers of business
management software and services for SMEs. We are
the third largest provider of business management
solutions in the world with a 7% market share
1
.
We have built our market-leading position around our
decentralised business model, the customer experience
we provide, the strength of our distribution channels and
our local brands. These brands, such as Ciel! in France,
Contaplus (SP) in Spain, Sage 50 in the UK, Softline Pastel
in South Africa or Simply in Canada, are widely recognised
and trusted in their local markets.
Above and beyond the strength of our local brands,
Sage is an internationally recognised brand in its own
right. The Sage brand is much more than our logo.
It represents our energy and commitment to doing what’s
right for our customers, going the extra mile and exceeding
expectations. To capitalise on our brand position we have
made a substantial investment in a global initiative to
leverage the strengths of the Sage brand more consistently
and effectively alongside those of our local brands.
This combination of our global and local brands provides
us with a key point of differentiation.
Products and services
We provide a choice of high quality products and
services which are relevant to our customers, use the most
appropriate technology and deployment methods and are
supported by local experts. The mix of products and
services we deliver in each of our regions is tailored
according to the needs of our customers in that market.
These products and services are broadly classified into
the following groups:
• Accounting
• Financial forecasting
• Job costing
• Business intelligence
• Taxation and other products for accountants
• Business stationery
• Development platforms
• E-business
• Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”)
• Payroll
• Human Resources
• CRM
• Payment processing
%
SAP 27.5 A
A
B
C
D
E
F
Oracle 13.9 B
Sage 7.0 C
Infor 6.4
Microsoft 4.1
D
E
Others 41.1 F
Business management
solutions providers
1
1
Source: Gartner, August 2007, Worldwide ERP
licence and maintenance revenue by vendor.
Competitive profile
Key
1 SAP
2 Oracle
3 Microsoft
4 Salesforce.com
5 Intuit
Local market solutions
Product
driven
>
>
>
Customer
led
Sage
1
2
3
5
4
Global consistency
>
12 In addition to this broad range of solutions, we also
recognise that businesses in different industries have
specialised needs. Consistent with our approach of
staying close to our customers and delivering relevant
solutions, many of our operating companies have,
alongside our worldwide community of software
developers, developed solutions for specific industries.
In regions where the market for business software is more
established, such as in the UK & Ireland, Mainland Europe
and North America, much of our growth is driven by the
demand for value-added support as well as integrated
suites of software. These suites integrate front and back
office business processes and simplify workflow across
an entire company. We have also developed tiered levels
of support contracts to meet differing customer needs.
These include software/support contracts which combine
software, annual upgrades, support and services such
as electronic back-up, access to training resources and
compliance services.
In emerging markets, such as Africa and Asia, growth
is driven by demand for support contracts, payroll
solutions, upgrades and migrations, as well as our
international product offerings.
Industry-specific and specialised solutions
UK & Mainland North Rest of
Ireland Europe America World
Healthcare •
HR and payroll •• • •
Construction/real estate•• • •
Transport/distribution •• •
Payment processing••
Accountancy •• • •
Not-for-profit ••
Manufacturing •• • •
Retail •• • •
13 Business review | Our business and markets 14
Technology developments
Technology continues to move at a fast pace, with the
growth of SaaS as well as the emerging influence of web
2.0 technologies. These developments present exciting
opportunities to enhance further the value we provide to
customers, particularly in the areas of collaboration,
integration and mobility. We take a pragmatic, impartial
approach, harnessing the most appropriate technologies
for the benefits they can bring to our customers.
Whilst the market for SaaS is growing, we anticipate
that adoption will be gradual and will vary widely between
markets. We believe that customers will gradually
incorporate new technologies into their existing solutions
and adopt a “hybrid” approach to their business software
and services. Our focus is on making the integration
process easier for our customers, integrating desktop
software with supplementary business services delivered
as SaaS applications. As a Group, we continue to
introduce SaaS applications where appropriate for our
customers. These include Billing Boss, a SaaS invoicing
service in Canada, Sage 50 Accounts Professional Online
software integrated with online payment processing
services in the UK and Sage Douane Delta, a SaaS
application which enables French customers to file
their tax returns online.
In CRM, we are creating new interoperability among
our CRM solutions, ACT!, SageCRM and SalesLogix.
We are incorporating open web standards to enable
integration between the front and back office.
Our CRM strategy also embraces SaaS capabilities and
web 2.0 technologies which will provide users, such as
mobile salespeople, with an interactive experience from
a wide range of devices. Whether mobile, on-demand
or on-premise, our CRM solutions will provide sales
teams with a more complete picture of their customers
and enabling them to work more efficiently.
International solutions
We are seeing growing demand from existing and potential
customers who increasingly operate internationally
and need a solution that works in all of their locations.
These solutions must be robust enough to cope with
multiple government legislation, currencies and languages
yet be flexible, lean and offer local customisation. As a
global business with extensive experience of working
with growing SMEs, we understand these challenges
and have developed ERP and CRM solutions that
meet the demands international businesses generate.
The provision of these international solutions demonstrates
our commitment to offer our customers a choice of high
quality, relevant, flexible and scalable solutions which meet
their evolving needs. 15
Cross company collaboration
Even though we take a predominantly local approach
we also place a great emphasis on collaboration across
our businesses. We work to leverage our accumulated
knowledge, innovation, technologies and resources which
enables us to continually improve the products and services
we deliver to our customers. This collaboration is on-going
and this year has included:
• Sharing innovation around our premium support models.
For example, the Sage Accountants’ Club Priority Link
in the UK, which provides priority access and dedicated
account management for its customers, benefited
from collaboration with our French and Spanish
businesses, which also have experience of offering
premium support contracts.
• The introduction of Sage ERP X3, acquired through
our French business in 2005, into the product portfolios
of our German and South African businesses.
• The roll-out of our global CRM strategy and its
interoperability platform across multiple geographies.
• The leveraging of the knowledge gained by our UK
business, when they developed the Sage 50 and Sage
200 suites, by our North American business to launch
the Sage Accpac ERP and Sage MAS Extended
Enterprise Suites.
“We take a pragmatic, impartial approach,
harnessing the most appropriate technologies
for the beneﬁts they can bring to our customers.”
Sage Douane Delta, is a SaaS application developed
by Sage in France to assist customers with online
filing of their tax returns. It has processed one million
returns since its launch in March 2007. The application
enables import/export businesses in France to ease
their transactions with French Customs (Douanes
Françaises) by giving them the ability to complete
their Customs returns online without generating
further paperwork or having to invest in sizeable IT
infrastructure. Customers are billed per transaction,
with no licence or maintenance fee, making Sage
Doaune Delta a cost effective solution.
Sage Douane Delta
