 02
Total dividend
+3%
7.21p
0.000 1.442 2.884 4.326 5.768 7.210
2008 7.21
2007
2006
2005
2004
7.00
3.59
2.88
2.33
pence
“Our large and international customer base, the
ﬂexibilityof our business model and our consistently
strong cash ﬂows position us favourablyto manage
the current market conditions.”
“The UKand North America recorded
respectable growth, and ourbusinesses
in Mainland Europe and Rest of World
reported another yearofstrong growth.”
To see Tony’s biography please go to page 44 03
This has been a challenging year with volatile and difficult
market conditions. After a resilient performance in the first
half of the year, the Group saw softening customer
demand in the second half, most notably in software
and software-related services.
Despite these market conditions, the Group reported a
solid performance for the year. The UK and North America
recorded respectable growth, and our businesses in
Mainland Europe and Rest of World reported another
year of strong growth.
Subscription revenues, including combined software/
support contracts, performed strongly in all our markets,
driving growth in established markets such as the UK,
France, South Africa and Australia, as well as in our newer
markets of Poland, Spain, China and Malaysia. Software
and software-related services reported modest growth,
affected by both the macro-economic conditions and the
trend for customers increasingly to purchase combined
software/support contracts.
Financial strength
The Group remains highly cash generative and our balance
sheet is strong. In addition, we have committed facilities of
£850m, of which £750m is committed until 2011. In these
market conditions, this positions the Group very well.
This financial year saw major movements in foreign
exchange rates and a major weakening of Sterling which
continued after the year end. More than 70% of the
Group’s profits are earned outside the UK and recent
exchange rate trends will have a favourable effect on
our reported earnings going forward.
Dividend
The Board is strongly committed to enhancing shareholder
value. We believe that our consistently strong cash flows,
robust balance sheet and recurring revenue streams
provide a sustainable basis for a progressive dividend
policy, whilst ensuring that the Board can continue
to maintain the appropriate levels of organic and
acquisition-led investment.
As a result, we are increasing the full year dividend by
3% to 7.21p per share (2007: 7.00p per share), with a
proposed final dividend of 4.78p per share (2007: 5.73p
per share, following the rebasing of our dividend policy
which was reflected in our final dividend in the second
half of the prior year).
Management changes
David Clayton joined the Board on 1 October 2007 as
Group Strategy and Mergers and Acquisitions Director.
On 1 November 2007, Ian Mason, Chief Executive of
Electrocomponents plc, joined the Board as a non-
executive director. Mark Rolfe, formerly Finance Director of
Gallaher Group plc, joined the Board on 1 December 2007
and became chair of the Audit Committee on 1 April 2008.
We were also very pleased to welcome Sue Swenson to
the Group as CEO, North America. Sue joined us in March
2008 and brings a formidable record of achievements to
our North American business.
People
We now employ over 14,500 people (2007: 13,900),
and our employees are at the heart of our strategy
continuously to improve our customers’ experience.
As markets become more challenging over the coming
year, we rely on our employees to enhance our competitive
advantage in all our markets. Our loyal, dedicated and
customer-focused employees have greatly contributed to
our results in this challenging year, and we thank them for
their continuing efforts.
Outlook
We will continue to strive to create value for our
shareholders by focusing on tight cost control, improved
operational efficiency and leveraging our strong geographic
market positions. It is uncertain as to how long these
difficult market conditions will continue and, therefore, we
remain cautious in our outlook. However, our large and
international customer base, the flexibility of our business
model and our consistently strong cash flows position us
favourably to manage the current market conditions.
Tony Hobson
Chairman
DearShareholder
Awards
Sage prides itself on providing high quality
software and customer support tailored to a
customer’s country and industry. We constantly
strive to provide outstanding customer service
and this year we have won many awards in
recognition of this.
UK & Ireland
Business Software Supplier of the Year
at Computing Magazine’s Awards for
Excellence 2008.
Payroll Software Provider of the Year
for medium to large companies at the Irish
Payroll Association awards.
Payroll Software Provider of the Year
at Pay Magazine’s annual Pay Awards.
Mainland Europe
Customer Service Golden Laurel and
the Golden BIT award for Best HR Software
in Poland.
Preferred Vendor 2008 award from Channel
Partner Magazine and ERP System of the
Year from the Centre of Enterprise Research
in Germany.
Golden Customer Relation Centre award
in Spain.
North America
Product of the Year award for ACT! by Sage
2008 from Communication Solutions magazine.
Product of the Year award for Sage SalesLogix
v7.2 at the SearchCRM.com awards.
SMB Software Suites Channel Champion
at CRN Channel Champion Awards.
Gold and silver medals for Best Contact Centre
Agent and Best Contact Centre, respectively,
at the World Contact Centre Awards.
Rest of World
Best Customer Service Award in the Business
Process Enabling South Africa Awards.
For further details on our awards please visit
www.sage.com/ourbusiness/newsroom
