 ASOS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 Stock Exchange Code: ASC ASOS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 Stock Exchange Code: ASC
BUSINESS REVIEW
I am pleased to report another exceptional year for ASOS. 
Despite the challenging economic conditions, sales grew 
by 104% to £165.4m and profit before tax increased by 
93% to £14.1m. 
We continued our programme of investment throughout 
the year, delivering a number of product initiatives whilst 
building our team and infrastructure to support these 
superior levels of growth. The continued popularity of 
Internet shopping provided a strong backdrop and, with 
the weakness in sterling, our international sales took a 
significant step-up. 
This year has started positively, with sales for the 13 weeks 
to 26 June 52% ahead of the same period last year. This 
compares to an increase of 95% for the same period last 
year. Clearly we are facing much tougher comparables, 
and there is now some evidence to suggest that the rate of 
growth in online sales has begun to moderate. In May 2009, 
the Interactive Media in Retail Group (IMRG) reported an 8% 
year on year growth in clothing sales, the lowest year on 
year increase since the index was launched nine years ago. 
That said, according to a report by Verdict the percentage 
of clothing bought online is expected to double in the next 
3 to 4 years, from 5.7% at the end of 2008 to over 11% by 
2013. At ASOS, we remain committed to winning the online 
fashion race. According to Hitwise, ASOS remains the 
second most visited apparel and accessories site on the 
Internet in the UK and in May 2009, we became a top 10 
UK e-commerce site for the first time, coming in 10th 
place, a rise of eight places on the year. We will continue 
our programme of investment, albeit at more conservative 
levels in the short-term, in order to exploit the opportunities 
that exist both in the UK and internationally.
Chief Executive s
Statement
18
www.asos.com
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2008/09 2007/08 Increase
Sales (£’000) 165,395 81,044 104%
Retail margin (excluding third party and delivery)  46.3% 47.6% —
Average basket value (£ including value added tax) 59.5 53.0 12%
Average units per basket 2.58 2.54 —
Average selling price per unit (£ including value added tax) 23.09 20.89 11%
Returns % to sales (by value) 26.0% 26.1% —
% International sales 19.5% 10.0% —
Number of orders (’000) 3,979 2,235 78% The Online Fashion Store
19
www.asos.com
“WE CONTINUED OUR PROGRAMME OF 
INVESTMENT THROUGHOUT THE YEAR, 
DELIVERING A NUMBER OF PRODUCT
INITIATIVES WHILST BUILDING OUR TEAM
AND INFRASTRUCTURE TO SUPPORT THESE
SUPERIOR LEVELS OF GROWTH”
INTERNATIONAL
Our international business has grown strongly over the 
year and now represents 19% of our sales, up from 10% in 
2007/08. Sterling’s weakness, particularly against the US 
dollar and the euro, has assisted with this growth as has an 
increase in marketing activity in Northern Europe and the 
US. During the year we increased the number of countries 
that we ship to from 34 to 58. Our top five performing 
countries outside the UK were Ireland, Denmark, Sweden, 
France and the US.
The Board believes that international expansion represents 
the largest growth opportunity open to ASOS. Accordingly, 
Jon Kamaluddin was appointed International Director 
in April 2009. Jon is responsible for developing and 
implementing our international strategy.
We will continue to add to the number of countries that we 
ship to, we will introduce flat rate shipping charges and we 
will increase our digital marketing activity. Ultimately we will 
introduce stand-alone, country specific, ASOS sites.
During the first phase of our international expansion all 
orders will be fulfilled from our UK warehouse. This will 
enable us to offer the full ASOS range of over 20,000 lines 
without introducing significant additional stock risk. This 
approach allows us to build scale in each local market 
ahead of significant infrastructure investment. 
DELIVERING INCREDIBLE CHOICE
During the year, our product ranges grew by 157%, 
resulting in 21,300 options on site at the end of March 
2009 (up from 8,300 at the end of March 2008). As at 
20 June 2009, there were 24,700 options on the ASOS 
website, up from 12,260 a year prior. We anticipate that 
we will extend this to approximately 30,000 options for the 
Autumn/Winter season. 
In September 2008 we launched ASOS Outlet, a dedicated 
shop within ASOS selling separately sourced, last season’s 
brands at up to 70% off. In February 2009, we launched 
Designer Brands at ASOS and Little ASOS (childrenswear). 
Our own-label ranges were also extended with the 
introduction of Maternity and ASOS Black, a premium 
range. We plan to launch an own-label childrenswear range 
and an own-label plus size range later in the year. 
We welcomed a number of new brands to the site 
including G-Star, Reiss, Warehouse and Polo Ralph Lauren 
and we look forward to introducing both Gap and Mango 
in August 2009. This takes the total number of brands now 
represented on ASOS to 820 compared to 600 twelve 
months ago.
DELIVERING UNCOMPROMISING PRESENTATION
The website received a complete overhaul in March 2009 
and we introduced a number of new navigation features to 
enable quick and easy browsing of the extended product 
ranges. We also introduced a 360 degree view of all shoes 
and accessories and we introduced catwalk for menswear 
and for ASOS Outlet.  www.asos.com
ASOS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 Stock Exchange Code: ASC
20
ASOS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 Stock Exchange Code: ASC
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
LITTLE ASOS
In February 2009 we launched 
Little ASOS (childrenswear). 
We also plan to launch an 
own-label childrenswear range.
CASE STUDY
Our 20 biggest brands are now represented by a “shop in 
shop” providing a rich brand experience for our customers 
and a unique distribution platform for our brand partners. 
DELIVERING IMPECCABLE SERVICE
Following considerable investment in new warehouse and 
carrier management systems, we will shortly be introducing 
a number of new service propositions. Our next day delivery 
service will be extended allowing customers to place orders 
up to 6.00 pm. This includes a Saturday delivery for orders 
placed on a Friday. We will also be introducing a super saver 
option and premium “same day” service within London. 
Today, approximately 85% of our orders are trackable.
COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL MEDIA
In 2008 we joined the conversation with customers through 
various social media, starting official ASOS pages on 
Facebook, MySpace and Bebo. On Twitter, our approach 
was slightly different: in addition to officially providing real 
time News & Offers, Customer Care and Service Updates 
there are 55 members of the ASOS team across various 
departments actively talking to customers. This more 
immediate and personal approach is resonating with our 
customers and we now have the largest Twitter following of 
all UK retailers. We have also introduced ASOS Life, which 
allows customers to talk to each other and key people 
within ASOS. 
INVESTING IN INFRASTRUCTURE
Over the past year, we have invested in systems to support 
our back office operations of buying, merchandising and 
fulfilment, recently installing a new warehouse management 
system at our Hemel Hempstead warehouse. This system 
will support our increasing range size, international 
expansion, as well as our demands for advanced delivery 
and returns options. 
During the next twelve months we plan to continue 
our investment in systems (focusing on merchandise 
management and stock planning) and will further develop 
our website systems in preparation for our international 
expansion.  AWARDS
2009    
Growth Company Awards — 
AIM Company of the Year
2008   
Esquire Awards —
Best Credit Crunch Survivor
The Online Fashion Store
21
www.asos.com
Subject to further investment in storage and handling 
equipment, our site in Hemel Hempstead is capable of 
supporting annual sales of approximately £350m. 
THIRD PARTY REVENUES
We have strengthened the team responsible for deriving 
revenue from advertising banners, inserts, list sales and 
display advertising in our magazine. Consequently, after 
what was a somewhat disappointing year in this area, we 
expect third party revenues to grow in the coming year. 
SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK
We are firmly established as the UK’s premier online fashion 
business and I remain positive about the outlook for ASOS. 
First quarter sales are growing at 52%, an exceptional 
performance, given the current economic climate. It is clear 
that the structural shift to online continues and I believe that 
ASOS is ideally placed to exploit it. Moreover, international 
expansion is a key opportunity for ASOS and I expect our 
international business to grow substantially in the years 
to come.
With three-quarters of the financial year to go, including the 
key Christmas period, it is too early to assess whether our 
current performance will continue for the full year. That said, 
I believe ASOS can look forward to another year of strong 
progress and development. 
Nick Robertson
Chief Executive Officer
“OUR INTERNATIONAL 
BUSINESS HAS GROWN 
STRONGLY OVER THE YEAR 
AND NOW REPRESENTS
19% OF OUR SALES”
