 www.asos.com
ASOS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 Stock Exchange Code: ASC
www.asos.com
ASOS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 Stock Exchange Code: ASC
It gives me great pleasure to present another outstanding 
set of results for ASOS PLC. Against the worst economic 
climate for retailers in recent memory, the Company 
has produced top line growth of over 100%, has again 
increased its market share and has delivered outstanding 
profit growth. 
It highlights the strength of the Internet as a retail channel 
and its potential position in the retail landscape of 
the future.
The outlook for 2009/10 remains uncertain. Whilst 
some indicators are showing positive signs, the effect of 
unemployment, job security and consumer debt has yet to 
be fully felt. Therefore, we have been more conservative in 
our planning for the 2009/10 financial year. 
That said, the future of online clothing retail remains bright, 
with the Internet set to take an ever increasing share of the 
clothing market. ASOS is ideally positioned to continue to 
exploit this, both in the UK and increasingly internationally, 
and we remain confident that this will be another year of 
strong growth.
MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN
During the 2009/10 financial year, the Remuneration 
Committee of ASOS will be implementing a new 
management incentive plan for executive directors and 
selected other key employees of the Company. 
The purpose of the plan is to incentivise and reward the 
management of ASOS for superior performance through 
the achievement of challenging Earnings per Share (“EPS”) 
growth targets and to align the interests of management 
with those of shareholders through a demanding Total 
Shareholder Return (“TSR”) condition. Both the EPS and 
TSR conditions will have to be met for awards to vest. 
DIVIDEND
Sustaining the levels of growth delivered to date has 
required and will continue to require significant capital 
investment in the Company. The Board believes it is in the 
best interests of shareholders to continue to exploit the 
significant growth opportunities available to the business 
and consequently, does not propose paying a dividend this 
year. This policy remains under constant review.
PEOPLE
On behalf of the Board I would like to welcome our new 
employees who joined us during the year and to thank
the team for their outstanding contribution to the
ongoing success of ASOS. During the year ASOS
won 17 industry and consumer awards, an
achievement of which they can all be very proud. 
Chairman s
Statement
16 I would also like to welcome Nick Beighton,
who joined us from Luminar Group Holdings plc,
as Finance Director and Company Secretary
and wish Jon Kamaluddin all the best in
his new role as International Director. 
Lord Alli
Chairman
AWARDS
2008:
AIM Awards —
Best Performing Share
over 5 years 
AIM Awards —
Company of the Year 
The Online Fashion Store
17
www.asos.com
“AGAINST THE WORST ECONOMIC CLIMATE
FOR RETAILERS IN RECENT MEMORY,
THE COMPANY HAS PRODUCED TOP
LINE GROWTH OF OVER 100%”
