 SPECIAL FEATURE
What are the driving factors behind Scapa’s  
growth in healthcare?
Growing customer need for existing and next generation fully converted, 
sterilised and packaged medical devices has been one of the main 
factors behind the growth of Scapa Healthcare. This growth has 
stemmed from Scapa’s ability to focus on developing a pipeline of 
product innovations and working partnerships. Product development 
has focused around an array of different product types including 
customer driven new product developments (NPDs), market driven 
NPDs and innovation products (next generation products). To enhance 
the growth of Scapa Healthcare, there has been a focus on products 
which have addressed both customer and market needs and trends.  
As a result Scapa Healthcare has become a trusted outsourced partner 
to a large number of global Healthcare customers. This is principally  
due to Scapa’s in-house expertise and key competencies in technical 
know-how, coating, converting, packaging, regulatory and quality. 
Furthermore, our ability to project manage complex projects and 
products, utilising our in-house platforms of adhesives, films and foams, 
including our converting and packaging skills, has been paramount to 
our success.
How will the emerging trends affect Scapa?
The healthcare industry has seen a rapid rate of new product 
introduction. In order to remain competitive, each of the Group’s 
business segments will continue to develop innovative products that 
satisfy customer needs and preferences or provide cost effectiveness 
with clinical benefits, improvements or other advantages. In-house 
research and development is supplemented by work performed by 
academic institutions and other external global research organisations in 
Europe, America and Asia. Scapa is in a unique position to be able to 
adapt and adjust accordingly to emerging trends associated with the 
growing healthcare market. With the changing demographics and 
ageing population the propensity of human disease and infection is set 
to increase. Scapa is well positioned to support and provide solutions  
to our existing and new customer base as new trends arise.
GROWTH & 
EMERGING 
TRENDS IN 
HEAL THCARE SPECIAL FEATURE
“ As we continue to make important 
investments in building strategic 
partnerships with existing and new  
global customers and improving our 
product pipeline, we are well positioned  
to continue to deliver further growth  
in 2014 and beyond.”
