 Chief Executive’s review
I am pleased to be able to report another year of 
progress for Sceptre Leisure. We have grown our 
machine rental business in the core pub market 
through both organic contract wins and selected 
acquisitions and we continue to develop the 
Kelly’s Eye brand across a wide range of 
leisure outlets.
We have reduced net debt by some £2.5m during 
the period under review, whilst continuing to 
invest in our machine estate to ensure that we 
are able to offer our customers a wide choice of 
games suitable for varying locations.
Profitability
As reported in our interim statement, we began 
the financial year with a reduced machine base 
following the sale of our fixed odds betting 
terminal (FOBT) estate in April 2010. Revenue 
and profit for the first half of the year were 
therefore both at a lower run rate than the 
second half of the previous year.
In addition, regulatory changes surrounding games 
offered on quiz machines (SWPs) in April 2010 
saw income from these assets reduce as some 
game content was removed to comply with 
HMRC requirements. This had an adverse effect 
on shared income from SWPs which resulted in 
Sceptre’s weekly revenue per machine falling 
from an average of £29.98 in 2010 to £23.82 
over the past year. On a machine estate of some 
3,100 pieces, this equated to a fall in revenue 
of £19,000 per week, the full £1m effect of which 
flowed through to reduce our profit for the 
financial year.
Action was taken to reduce our operating costs, 
and as a result, staff overhead spend was lower 
in Q4 than in Q1 in spite of a larger machine 
estate following the acquisition of RV Smith and 
the award of the new Punch contract. Accordingly, 
in spite of an acquisition and organic growth 
in machine numbers, our income was adversely 
affected and our full year profitability was 
therefore at the lower end of our expectations.
Sceptre Leisure Solutions
As discussed above, revenue within our machine 
rental business reduced year-on-year. This is due 
both to the sale of our Fixed Odds Betting T erminal 
(FOBT) machines at the end of FY2010 (which 
contributed approximately £2.5m turnover in the 
prior year), and also to pub companies moving 
away from charging royalties to tenants as part 
of the machine contract (a reduction of £1.3m 
compared to 2010).
This reduction in royalty revenues had no effect 
on the division’s profitability, as all charges 
recognised in revenue are passed on directly 
to the pub company as a cost of sale. For this 
reason, whilst turnover within Sceptre Leisure 
Solutions fell during the year under review, the 
gross margin grew in percentage terms over 
the same period.
In summary
Acquisition of assets and generations 
of RV Smith (Leisure) in November 2010
Organic growth through contract wins; 
existing contracts renewed
Machine rental market ripe 
for consolidation
We have grown our machine rental business in the core pub market 
through both organic contract wins and selected acquisitions.
Sceptre Leisure plc Annual report and accounts 2011 10 www.sceptreleisureplc.co.uk These two changes in our business have 
necessitated a recalculation of one of our main 
KPIs, that of machine week average (MWA). This 
change is explained fully in the KPI section of the 
Financial Review on page 18 and allows a better 
comparison of the division’s performance over 
time. We maintained our MWA year-on-year in 
spite of changes to the games available on our 
skills with prizes (SWP) terminals as a result 
of an HMRC ruling on content. These changes 
resulted in a 20% reduction in revenue from 
this class of machine equivalent to £1m per 
year – a reduction reflected across the entire 
machine operating industry. We took swift 
action to mitigate these losses both through 
the negotiation of new software licences 
at reduced costs where possible.
Following the sale of the FOBT operation in 
April 2010 we took the opportunity to reduce 
debt with part of the £3.75m proceeds. After a 
period of consolidation in H1, we were pleased 
to announce the award of a major contract 
with the Punch Pub Company to supply 30% of 
their managed estate. The three-year contract 
covering around 800 machines is reviewed 
in more detail on page 12 and marks another 
important milestone in Sceptre’s development.
Our contract pipeline remained strong 
throughout the remainder of the financial 
year and we confirmed the renewal of 
longstanding relationships with Joseph Holt 
Number of Group‑operated 
machines
22,500
UK machines 2010
234,000*
Sceptre-operated machines 2011
22,500
UK pub sector machines 2010
c.145,000
Total UK betting stake 2009
£10.29bn*
Total UK prize money 2009
£8.23bn*
Sceptre Leisure Solutions Limited
—  Greater dependence on alternative income for 
national and regional pub companies and landlords
—  Sceptre has continued to grow in its core market 
despite pub closures
Amusement machines
—  Increased presence in leisure, travel and 
multi-site locations
—  Stakes and prizes increase in June 2009 provided 
a boost to the market
Machine locations
 Pubs 70%
 Clubs 15%
 Travel 8%
 Multi-site 7%
Market overview
>>  Creating a market focus
*Source: BACTA.
11 Sceptre Leisure plc Annual report and accounts 2011 www.sceptreleisureplc.co.uk Machines covered 
by PPC contract
800
Punch Pub Company awarded the 
agreement based on the high level 
of service and support that Sceptre 
Leisure offers and which we have 
experienced in our leased business 
over a number of years. We feel this 
will ensure that our pubs get the 
very best out of their machines in 
terms of service delivery and 
gaming innovations.
Julie Clamp 
Machine Development Manager, Punch Pub Company
Contract win with  
Pub Punch Company
Sceptre will supply coin operated amusement equipment 
including AWPs, pool tables and music solutions to 
30% of the Pub Punch Company estate, which includes 
established brands such as Chef & Brewer .
This customer-supplier relationship will develop over 
the years to come. Technology advances coupled with 
excellent customer service allow us to generate more 
income per machine for Pub Punch Company than 
our competitors.
>> What’s involved?
>> How will Sceptre benefit?
12 Sceptre Leisure plc Annual report and accounts 2011 www.sceptreleisureplc.co.uk Chief Executive’s review continued
Sceptre Leisure Solutions continued
and Daniel Thwaites whilst also winning 
new business with De Vere Hotels and 
The McManus Pub Company. 
These contract wins underline our position as 
the preferred machine operator for most pub 
companies within the UK. Our figures show 
that Sceptre consistently generates higher 
machine income for our customers wherever it 
competes head-to-head with our main national 
competitor within a pub company’s estate. This 
outperformance is due to our operational team 
whose drive for quality and service keeps us at 
the forefront of the industry. I am proud to work 
with such a talented group and would like to take 
the opportunity to thank them for their hard 
work and dedication over the course of the year .
Overall performance within the machine rental 
division was strong, given the trading environment, 
reflecting increased machine numbers in the 
second half of the year and also the contribution 
made by the acquisition of the assets and 
operations of RV Smith (Leisure) Limited in 
November 2010. This has allowed us to improve 
our operational ratios further , increasing machine 
density in the south of the UK. We also achieved 
a higher average number of machines operated 
per person employed within the division, up to 49 
at 30 April 2011 from 47 the previous year, 
and maintaining our asset utilisation rate at 
our target of 95%.
Acquisition
On 29 November 2010 we announced 
the acquisition of the machine assets and 
operations of RV Smith (Leisure) Limited for a 
total consideration of £1.2m. The purchase price 
was made up of £0.8m in cash with the remainder 
satisfied by the issue of 1.4m shares at the market 
price of 27.7p on the day of completion.
The assets acquired consisted of 925 machines 
in 277 locations across the south of the UK. Our 
strong and flexible infrastructure meant that 
this new business could be absorbed within our 
existing depot network without the need for 
new premises. We were pleased to welcome the 
transferring employees, who were quickly and 
efficiently incorporated into Sceptre’s operation 
in the days following the acquisition.
The acquisition further strengthened our position 
in the south of the UK and provided improved 
density within our London and Bournemouth 
depots. We will continue to follow a strategy of 
growth through selected acquisitions, assuming 
that the price and overall fit of the targets 
are right.
Overall performance within the machine rental division was strong, 
reflecting increased machine numbers in the second half of the year .
>>  Developing our 
organisation
2011 2010 2009 2008
15,200
21,300
20,900
22,500
Machine numbers
What we’ve achieved
—  Continued growth in the south
—  Acquisitions fully integrated
—  Increased market share
Planning for the future
—  Investment in new technologies such 
as note payout
—  £9m of capital expenditure on new 
machines in 2011
—  Product offer increased with 
Party House range
13 Sceptre Leisure plc Annual report and accounts 2011 www.sceptreleisureplc.co.uk Chief Executive’s review continued
The acquisition further strengthened our position in the south 
of the UK and provided improved density within our London 
and Bournemouth depots. 
Lotteryking
We improved market penetration of our lottery 
terminals over the course of the year, with 
terminal numbers in pubs and clubs increasing 
by 4% to 3,500 in the period under review.
We also grew lottery sales within pubs through 
Creative Lotteries, achieving a 38% increase in 
sales to £0.23m during the financial year. These 
lotteries also raised over £90,000 for charity 
over the period.
The registered members’ club market has 
contracted significantly over the course of 
the recession, with many clubs closing and 
others seeing a reduction in footfall particularly  
in the past year. 
For this reason private lottery revenue fell 
year-on-year, although our restructuring of this 
division at the end of the 2010 financial year saw 
losses reduce.
We will continue to work on maximising our 
return from existing assets within this division, 
while ensuring that it contributes to overall 
Group cash flow in the coming year.
Kelly’s Eye
October 2010 saw the launch of Kelly’s Catalogue 
which brought together a full range of fundraising, 
indoor gaming, catering and bar products aimed 
at the licensed market for the first time. We will 
continue to use this as a tool in order to increase 
our penetration of the pub and club market, with 
an aim to establish Kelly as the leading supplier 
within the UK.
Outlook
Sceptre continues to grow and our ambition is 
to become the largest machine operator within 
the pub market over the next 18 months whilst 
maintaining or increasing our margins.
The market is ripe for further consolidation and 
we will identify suitable acquisition targets that 
will enhance our existing machine estate.
We will also pursue contracts with both new 
and existing customers, further cementing our 
position as the preferred operator for national, 
regional and local pub companies across the UK.
Finally, we will develop the Kelly’s Eye brand within 
the leisure market using our existing customer 
base to increase sales and add incremental profit 
across our divisions in the coming months.
Kenneth Turner
Chief Executive Officer
26 July 2011
>>  Improving our 
operations
What we’ve achieved
—  Improved operational ratios
—  Maintained machine asset utilisation 
at 95%
—  Rationalised operating costs
Planning for the future
—  Nationwide infrastructure ready for growth
—  Continued investment in communication 
technology to allow remote machine 
management and fault diagnosis
— Digital machine trials ongoing
Revenue split by activity
 Machine rental 91%
 Lottery and indoor gaming 8%
 Equipment sales 1%
Sceptre Leisure plc Annual report and accounts 2011 14 www.sceptreleisureplc.co.uk Sceptre Leisure supplies the 
majority of our estate across the 
UK. We greatly value Sceptre’s 
operational expertise in maximising 
income from our machines and 
respect their high levels of support 
to keep them up and running.
John Appleton 
Director of Electronic Leisure 
Mitchells & Butlers Plc
Understanding our  
customers’ requirements
Sceptre dedicates considerable resources to important 
national customers such as Mitchells & Butlers. From 
the CEO to our collectors, our entire team is focussed 
on generating income for our customers; this is why 
we are now the preferred national supplier for many 
pub companies across the UK.
>>  Choosing the right team
15 www.sceptreleisureplc.co.uk Sceptre Leisure plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Revenue potential from 
secured contract
£1.5m
These new deals 
demonstrate our 
continued progress 
towards becoming the 
number one machine 
operator in the UK 
pub market.
Ken Turner 
Chief Executive Officer, Sceptre Leisure plc
100% sole supply with  
Joseph Holt Limited
Joseph Holt Limited has awarded a new two-year 
contract to Sceptre for 100% sole supply to its 
130-location managed and tenanted estate. The contract 
continues the close working relationship built up over 
more than twelve years.
>> What’s involved?
Joseph Holt’s estate provides valuable density in the 
North West, and the renewed contract will provide 
some £1.5m in revenues over two years.
>> How will Sceptre benefit?
16 Sceptre Leisure plc Annual report and accounts 2011 www.sceptreleisureplc.co.uk
