 Chairman’s statement
Results
Sceptre has delivered a creditable set of results 
in another year of challenging trading conditions 
with the core business performing well. Our prior 
year comparative figures included the fixed-odds 
betting terminal machine operation, sold in April 
2010 for a substantial profit, and like-for-like 
comparisons are therefore difficult to make. 
However , our acquisition of RV Smith in November 
2010 and the award of a new contract by Punch’s 
managed division have allowed us to build on the 
good start reported in our interim statement.
We have continued to reduce gearing further 
over the course of the year, with net debt down 
to £13.4m in April 2011 from £15.9m. This underlines 
the strong cash generation provided by our core 
business delivered from our recurring revenue 
stream from machine rentals.
Acquisition
Sceptre acquired the machine assets 
and operations of Surrey-based RV Smith 
(Leisure) Limited in November 2010 for a 
total consideration of £1.2m, paid in a mixture 
of cash and shares. This transaction further 
strengthened our position in the south of the 
UK and is reviewed in more detail on page 13. 
As with our previous acquisitions, the additional 
assets were quickly and efficiently absorbed 
into our operational infrastructure.
Contract wins
In addition to the Punch contract win reported 
previously, Sceptre has been able to announce 
a number of new or renewed contracts in the 
second half of the year. Some of these have 
been with longstanding customers such as 
Joseph Holt, Daniel Thwaites and De Vere Hotels, 
whilst others have been with new clients such 
as the McManus Pub Company. A fuller review 
of the Punch contract is made in the case study 
on page 12. All of these contract awards are the 
result of our commitment to customer service 
and the operational know-how provided by 
our team.
People
It is our employees that set us apart from the 
competition and give us a critical competitive 
advantage. Our operational teams are continually 
raising the bar in delivering customer service 
and quality. I would like formally to thank all 
members of the Sceptre team for their continued 
efforts; they should feel proud of their contribution 
towards this year’s results.
Outlook
We will continue to pursue our strategy of 
growth through organic contract wins and 
selected acquisitions financed by internal cash 
generation. Sceptre remains the first-choice 
operator in the pub and club market.
Douglas Yates
Chairman
26 July 2011
Sceptre has continued to reduce gearing further over the course of 
the year, with net debt down to £13.4m from £15.9m, underlining the 
strong cash generation provided by our core business.
Sceptre Leisure plc Annual report and accounts 2011 08 www.sceptreleisureplc.co.uk
