 06 Sceptre Leisure plc
	 Annual 	 report	 and	 accounts	 2010
The Group has been 
active during the year, 
which included an 
acquisition, a disposal 
and continued organic 
growth.
On the 
winning 
team... 		 Sceptre Leisure plc 07
	 	 Annual 	 report	 and	 accounts	 2010
Overview	 Pages	 01–05
Business Review Pages 06–19
Governance	 Pages	 20–26
Financial	 statements	 Pages	 27–65
Other	 information	 Pages	 66–68
Chairman’s Statement
Continued growth
We have once again seen an 
increase in turnover and profit, 
achieved against a backdrop 
of recession and economic 
uncertainty in the UK.
Welcome	 to	 Sceptre	 Leisure	 plc’s	 2010	
report	 and	 accounts.	 The	 Group	 has	 been	
active	 during	 the	 year,	 which	 included	
an	 acquisition,	a	 disposal	 and	 continued	
organic	 growth.	 We	 have	 once	 again	
seen	 an	 increase	 in	 turnover	 and	 profit,	
achieved	 against	a	 backdrop	 of	 recession	
and	 economic	 uncertainty	 in	 the	 UK.
During	 the	 course	 of	 the	 year	 the	 Group	
has	 achieved	a	 number	 of	 targets.
On	5	 July	 2009,	 the	 Company	 completed	
a	 £5.5m	 share	 placing	 with	 Hillroad	
Investments,	 equivalent	 to	 29.9%	 of		
the	 enlarged	 issued	 share	 capital.
On	1	 December	 2009,	 increased	 banking	
facilities	 were	 agreed	 with	 Lloyds	 Banking	
Group.	A	 new	 £6.0m	 revolving	 finance	
facility	 and	 £0.5m	 working	 capital	 facility	
replaced	 the	 £3m	 overdraft	 originally	
agreed	 with	 Bank	 of	 Scotland	 in	 2008.	
These	 new	 resources	 have	 been	 used	
to	 invest	 in	 new	 machines	 across	 the	
entire	 estate.
In	 spite	 of	a	 difficult	 financial	 climate,	
we	 have	 been	 successful	 in	 replacing	a	
number	 of	 the	 asset	 finance	 lines	 lost		
in	 the	 previous	 financial	 year	 due	 to		
the	 banking	 crisis.
We	 retain	 sufficient	 headroom	 within	 our	
facilities	 to	 continue	 our	 expansion	 into	
the	 new	 financial	 year.
On	 15	 December	 2009,	 we	 announced	 the	
acquisition	 of	 Australian	8	 Ball,	a	 single-
site	 operator	 based	 in	 Dorset.	 This	 new	
addition	 to	 the	 Sceptre	 Leisure	 plc	 Group	
was	a	 combined	 cash	 and	 shares	 deal	
with	a	 total	 value	 of	 £1.1m.	 The	 acquired	
business	 strengthened	 our	 position	 in	
the	 South	 and	 South-West	 of	 England,	
and	 has	 begun	 to	 offer	 both	 financial	 and	
operational	 benefits	 to	 the	 organisation.
On	 19	 April	 2010,	 we	 completed	 the	 sale		
of	 our	 Fixed	 Odds	 Betting	 Terminal	
(FOBT)	 estate	 to	 Global	 Draw	 Limited,		
a	 subsidiary	 of	 Scientific	 Games.	 This	
followed	 the	 end	 of	 our	 exclusivity	 deal	
with	 Videobet	 and	 Playtech	 plc,	 with	
whom	 we	 had	 pioneered	 the	 introduction	
and	 roll-out	 of	 market-leading	 technology	
in	 the	 licensed	 betting	 office	 (LBO)	
market.	 The	 sale,	 for	a	 cash	 consideration	
of	 £3.75m,	 generated	a	 profit	 of	 £0.8m	
for	 the	 Group.	 The	 deal	 was	 particularly	
timely	 given	 the	 increasing	 levels	 of	
uncertainty	 and	 regulatory	 restrictions	
surrounding	 the	 operation	 of	 FOBTs		
in	 the	 UK.
That	 we	 have	 achieved	 the	 above	
during	 the	 worst	 recession	 in	 50	 years	
is	 testament	 to	 the	 hard	 work	 and	
dedication	 of	 our	 employees	 across	 all	
of	 our	 trading	 divisions.	 We	 continue	
to	 differentiate	 ourselves	 from	 the	
competition	 by	 offering	 excellent	
customer	 service	 and	a	 ‘can-do’	
operational	 attitude.	I	 would	 like	 to	 place	
on	 record	 my	 thanks	 to	 all	 employees	 and	
Directors	 for	 their	 continued	 efforts	 over	
the	 course	 of	 the	 year.
The	 year	 also	 saw	a	 number	 of	 changes	
to	 the	 Board	 of	 Directors.	 In	 January	
2010,	 Lesley	 Humphrys	 stepped	 down	 as	
Finance	 Director	 in	 order	 to	 concentrate	
on	 the	 operations	 of	 Sceptre	 Leisure	
Solutions,	 our	 principal	 trading	 subsidiary.	
I	 would	 like	 to	 take	 the	 time	 on	 behalf		
of	 the	 Board	 to	 express	 our	 thanks	 for		
her	 hard	 work	 and	 diligence.
In	 May	 2010,	 the	 role	 of	 Finance	 Director	
was	 taken	 over	 by	 Mark	 White,	 previously	
FD	 of	 Gamingking	 plc,	 and	 who	 has	 been	
with	 the	 Group	 since	 2006.
Finally	 Brian	 Nichols,	a	 founder	 of	
Lotteryking	 Limited	 and	 main	 Board	
member	 since	 the	 Group’s	 flotation	 in	
1996,	 retired	 from	 the	 Board	 in	 May	 2010.	
Once	 again	I	 would	 like	 to	 thank	 Brian	 on	
behalf	 of	 the	 Board	 for	 his	 dedication	 and	
unstinting	 efforts	 over	 the	 past	 24	 years.	
I	 am	 pleased	 to	 report	 that	 Brian	 remains	
within	 the	 Group	 in	 an	 advisory	 capacity.
In	 closing,	I	 believe	 that	 we	 remain	 well-
placed	 to	 take	 advantage	 of	 consolidation	
within	 the	 market.	 We	 have	 funds	
available	 to	 grow	 either	 organically	
through	 contract	 wins,	 or	 by	 means		
of	 further	 acquisition	 opportunities.
Douglas Yates
Chairman	
29	 September	 2010
