 All four ScottishPower businesses produced good
results during 2002/03, sustaining the recovery
that began in the latter months of last year. This
ﬁnancial and commercial progress is especially
pleasing after the challenges the energy markets
have presented in both the US and the UK.
Earnings per share* rose by 29% to 33.71 pence.
Our regulated businesses in the US and UK both
performed well. PaciﬁCorp’s drive to increase
operational efﬁciency and improve customer
service resulted in a substantial boost to
proﬁtability and remains on track to achieve its
targeted return on equity. Our UK Infrastructure
business delivered another strong performance,
increasing sales and meeting demanding cost
savings objectives. 
In the competitive sectors, the UK Division has
continued to face tough conditions but succeeded
in increasing sales, maintaining proﬁts and
growing customer numbers. Our newest business,
PPM, reported an operating proﬁt of £28 million
and has good opportunities to grow its successful
gas storage and renewables ventures.
With proﬁts and earnings up, debt and interest
charges down, and satisfactory cash ﬂow,
ScottishPower ended the year in a sound ﬁnancial
position. We have announced our intention to
declare three quarterly dividend payments of 4.75
pence from April 2003 and will set the fourth
quarter payment to represent the balance of the
dividend for the year to 31 March 2004. After
March 2004, we shall aim to grow dividends in line
with earnings.
The last weeks of 2001/02 saw ScottishPower
refocused on energy, and these results prove
clearly that this was the correct strategy. The
testing period we have endured has had a positive
effect on the group’s culture. Today ScottishPower
has an international leadership team of growing
stature and a programme of development
initiatives designed to raise our skills and
competencies further.
We have had to sharpen existing skills and develop
others that will be of lasting value. The California
energy crisis that followed so soon after our
merger with PaciﬁCorp has given us a heightened
awareness of risk and better techniques for
managing it. We are now applying this experience
in the UK wholesale market with success. Our
grasp and handling of detailed regulatory issues
has improved, boding well for the next UK price
review in 2005. We are developing a growing
portfolio of renewable energy assets and have
successfully renegotiated the Nuclear Energy
Agreement with British Energy.
Against our peer groups, ScottishPower remains at
or near the top of the environmental and social
impact rankings, and PaciﬁCorp is gaining ground
in the equivalent US benchmarks. Surveys among
our employees, who have borne the brunt of all
the change and upheaval within the businesses,
show morale improving.
Pensions have been much in the news during the
year and neither our US nor UK pension funds
have escaped the downturn in equity markets. We
have resumed contributions to our UK pension
funds and will make the recovery of increased
pension costs through regulatory processes one of
our priorities in both the US and the UK.
Now turning to the Board, there are a number of
changes to report. Nick Rose, Finance Director of
Diageo, joined the Board as a non-executive
director in February 2003. Ewen Macpherson will
retire as a non-executive director after the AGM.
We thank him for his advice and wish him well. I
am grateful that Sir Peter Gregson, who had
planned to retire this year, has agreed to extend
his term of ofﬁce for another year.
This has been an eventful but ultimately
successful year during which all our employees in
both the US and the UK have given strong support
on a daily basis. On behalf of the Board, I want to
thank them for their efforts and goodwill.
The outlook for ScottishPower remains positive,
with additional improvements in performance
expected from our business and good
opportunities for further growth.
Charles Miller Smith Chairman
7 May 2003
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
2
Chairman’s Statement
“Today ScottishPower has an international
leadership team of growing stature.”
Charles Miller Smith, Chairman * excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
