 I am pleased to report that in the past year we
delivered a good set of results, with proﬁts up
substantially and earnings per share* for the
year up 29%. The recovery at PaciﬁCorp was
particularly pleasing, with operating proﬁt** up
by some 60% in the year. Our dividend for the
year was 28.71 pence per share, an increase of
5%. We also delivered a total return of 13.9% for
shareholders during the year. The sale of
Southern Water at the beginning of the year
enabled us to reduce our net debt by £2 billion,
thus strengthening our balance sheet and
ﬁnancial ratios.  
We manage regulated and competitive
businesses in the UK and US to serve gas and
electricity customers. We invested over £800
million in our businesses during the year, of
which some £345 million (42%) was in areas of
growth, such as additions to our electricity
networks, new generation especially renewables,
and gas storage. Investment of this sort is at the
heart of our strategy to become a leading
international energy company. We invest only in
businesses where we can deploy proven skills
and strong market knowledge. 
The safety and well-being of our workforce and
the public is our number one priority. Sadly the
year saw two of our colleagues killed at work;
one fatal accident in the UK and one in the US.
Tragedies such as these reinforce my conviction
that we should put nothing ahead of safety and
that we all have a role and responsibility to
ensure that the highest standards are
maintained at all times. 
During the past year we have made good
progress in further enhancing the underlying
quality of our business. As Business in the
Community’s Company of the Year 2002 we
have continued to contribute signiﬁcantly to the
Corporate Social Responsibility agenda in both
the UK and the US and are publishing our ﬁrst
combined Environmental and Social Impact
Report in July 2003. Our robust risk
management policies and procedures were
recognised by the international ﬁnance
magazine, Risk, with the prestigious award of
Corporate Risk Manager of the Year. We have
also placed great emphasis on the talent and
performance management of our people: our
top international cadre of 250 managers now
has clear incentive based performance
agreements linked directly to our strategic
objectives. 
PaciﬁCorp 
PaciﬁCorp is our regulated US business, with a
portfolio of over 8,000 MW of power from coal,
gas, renewable and hydro resources, 15,000
miles of transmission lines and a distribution
system serving 1.5 million customers in six
states. PaciﬁCorp is a leading regional integrated
utility and is a key player in western energy
markets. The strategic priorities of PaciﬁCorp set
at the beginning of 2002/03 were:
• Achieve ROE target/$1 billion EBIT by 
2004/05 through:
– General rate cases
–Transition Plan
• Manage risk and reward balance
• Deliver excellent customer service
Operating proﬁt for PaciﬁCorp increased by
£233 million to £463 million for the year to 31
March 2003. Operating proﬁt excluding goodwill
amortisation for PaciﬁCorp for the year grew by
£225 million to £597 million, as a result of
regulatory rate increases and recoveries of
excess power costs of £80 million, signiﬁcantly
lower net power costs of £257 million and
continued progress in the delivery of Transition
Plan beneﬁts of £64 million in the year. These
improvements were partly offset by lower
transmission revenues of £19 million from
reduced use of the transmission system by third
parties, higher depreciation charges of £25
million, risk mitigation and project costs of £41
million, insurance, pensions, and healthcare
costs of £46 million and one-off gains in the
previous year and foreign exchange of £45 million.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
3
Chief Executive’s Review
“This has been a year of delivery based on
our consistent focus on performance.”
Ian Russell, Chief Executive * excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
** excluding goodwill amortisation Net capital expenditure for the year decreased
by £1 million to £368 million, with £111 million
invested in network growth and new generation
assets, £211 million on network and generation
refurbishment, and £46 million on other capital
projects including information technology.  
Net capital expenditure is expected to increase
in 2003/04 as a result of higher generation and
mining overhauls and refurbishment spend,
environmental initiatives and continued
investment in expanding the network. All
expenditure prudently incurred is expected to
earn its regulatory rate of return, and contribute
to an increased rate base for PaciﬁCorp.
• Achieve ROE target/$1 billion EBIT by 
2004/05 through:
– General rate cases
–Transition Plan
PaciﬁCorp remains on track towards its target of
$1 billion EBIT by 2004/05 through a
combination of general rate cases and beneﬁts
derived from the Transition Plan.
General rate increases of approximately $160
million per year have been awarded to
PaciﬁCorp from 1 April 2001 to 31 March 2003,
with $31 million awarded during the year ended
31 March 2003. PaciﬁCorp’s regulatory strategy
includes ﬁling regular rate cases to increase
revenues to recover increasing operational costs
and capital expenditure, while realising our full
allowed return on investment. In line with this
plan, PaciﬁCorp ﬁled a general rate case in
Oregon in March 2003, for $58 million,
representing a 7% rate increase, primarily as a
result of increased costs related to insurance
premiums, healthcare, pensions and other costs
that are similarly affecting many other US
companies. In California, testimony and hearings
in PaciﬁCorp’s $16 million general rate case
request have been scheduled to take place
through May and June of 2003. PaciﬁCorp also
plans to ﬁle in the next few weeks for general
rate cases in Wyoming and Utah.
During March 2003, PaciﬁCorp was denied
recovery of $91 million in net excess power costs
in Wyoming and is currently seeking a re-hearing
of this decision. Additionally, PaciﬁCorp
continues seeking to defer and recover
approximately $16 million in net excess power
costs in Washington state. An order on this case
is expected by early summer 2003. 
Among the legislative measures approved in
PaciﬁCorp’s service territory, Senate Bill 61 in Utah
will go into effect in early summer 2003. This
legislation provides an option for the Utah Public
Service Commission to use a future test-year period
in utility rate cases that more appropriately reﬂects
the cost of providing service, which is necessary to
reduce the period between capital investment and
recovery in rates – referred to as “regulatory lag”.
Reducing regulatory lag should encourage needed,
cost-effective investments in utility infrastructure by
companies such as PaciﬁCorp.
The PaciﬁCorp Transition Plan continues to
progress on track as a key driver towards
increasing proﬁtability and supporting
PaciﬁCorp’s regulatory objectives. Cumulative
Transition Plan beneﬁts total approximately $217
million, slightly ahead of this year’s target of
$204 million and we are now two-thirds of the
way towards our goal of $300 million by
2004/05. These included new call centre
technology and other process changes that
helped increase employee productivity and
improve customer service. In distribution,
operational efﬁciency improvements were
delivered such as Home Start, which allows
overhead line crews to respond more effectively
to faults. Additionally, continuing procurement
cost savings and royalties from the sale of a
synthetic fuel operation last year contributed to
PaciﬁCorp’s continued delivery of the Transition
Plan in 2002/03.
• Manage risk and reward balance
PaciﬁCorp successfully managed power demand
during the challenging summer of 2002 and
winter of 2002/03 through a robust
combination of existing physical resources, a
weather-related hedge and peaking generation
facilities. During the winter, PaciﬁCorp’s base of
coal-ﬁred generating resources and forward gas
purchase strategy minimised the risks of natural
gas price volatility. PaciﬁCorp remains well-
positioned and is fundamentally balanced for
the summer of 2003. 
Our long-term Integrated Resource Plan (IRP),
which seeks to identify new resource
requirements to implement plans to deliver safe,
reliable low-cost power to customers over the
next 20 years, was ﬁled with state regulatory
commissions in January 2003. The IRP is
progressing with the development of the Request
for Proposals (RFP) process, under which
PaciﬁCorp will seek bids for future generation
needs. RFPs will be issued for both short- and
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
4
Chief Executive’s Review
continued long-term electricity requirements, including
renewable energy needs. The RFP process is
expected to extend until spring 2004.  
The IRP and the resulting RFP process have
been created to identify PacifiCorp’s future
resource mix in a coordinated process with the
six states in which PacifiCorp operates. As part
of these processes, PacifiCorp is expecting to
add the equivalent of approximately 4,000 MW
of capacity through a combination of sources
over the next decade. These include the
addition of base load construction capacity or
purchases (approximately 2,100 MW), peaking
resources (approximately 1,200 MW) and
purchased “shaped” power (approximately 700
MW). In addition, PacifiCorp also plans to
implement demand side management
programmes (up to 450 MW on average) and
acquire renewable energy (approximately 1,400
MW). Among the steps involved in the IRP
process will be an evaluation of potential future
generation sources such as an additional
generating unit at the Hunter station in Utah.
The air quality permitting process has begun to
enable PacifiCorp to develop this option.
Prudently incurred costs of such investments
are expected to be included in PacifiCorp’s
future rate base.
• Deliver excellent customer service
During 2002/03, PaciﬁCorp continued to enhance
its customer service commitments, while
maintaining retail rates that are among the lowest
in the western US. Improvements include
enhancing PaciﬁCorp’s outage communications
technology to provide customers with the ability
to report outages directly, thus helping to speed
repairs or pinpoint potential problem areas.
PaciﬁCorp was recognised by TQS Research of
Atlanta, Georgia, for improvements with large
commercial and industrial customers. Overall
customer satisfaction metrics show positive
results, including improved accuracy and
timeliness of customer billing. In addition,
PaciﬁCorp successfully tested a handheld meter
reading system that will improve system
functionality and accuracy. The new system is
expected to be implemented by the summer of
2003, with further productivity improvements to
follow over the next 12 months that will enhance
PaciﬁCorp’s scheduling technology.
Based on a recent report, PaciﬁCorp was rated
third in the US by the Department of Energy as a
marketer of green energy under PaciﬁCorp’s
Blue Sky programme. In excess of 21,000
customers have signed up for Blue Sky or other
renewable products. PaciﬁCorp’s green pricing
programme is one of the most progressive and
successful in the US.  
To improve customer service and reliability,
PaciﬁCorp continues its infrastructure
improvement projects in targeted areas,
particularly along Utah’s Wasatch Front where
there is rapidly growing demand for electricity.
The scope of this $200 million investment
through 2005 includes transmission line
upgrades, new distribution substations, upgrades
to existing distribution substations and other
system enhancements. These projects will
provide additional capacity to meet future load
demands throughout PaciﬁCorp’s network,
especially in high-growth areas.
Infrastructure Division
Infrastructure Division, our regulated UK wires
business, is the UK’s third largest distribution
company and comprises the distribution and
transmission networks in our Scottish service
area, and the distribution network in Manweb,
over 110,000 circuit km in total. The strategic
priorities of the Infrastructure Division set at the
beginning of 2002/03 were:
• Be at or near the regulatory efﬁciency frontier
– Outperform operating cost targets
– Achieve better than planned output from capex
• Achieve high standards of customer service
• Invest consistently to add value
For the year to 31 March 2003, the
Infrastructure Division reported operating proﬁt
of £368 million, an increase of £13 million on
last year. Higher regulated income of £9 million
and net cost reductions of £18 million were
partly offset by higher depreciation, operational
rates, insurance and pension costs of £14
million. 
The Infrastructure Division invested net capital
expenditure of £230 million during the year, an
increase of £32 million compared to the year to
31 March 2002. Of this, £141 million was
invested in network refurbishment, £68 million
on network expansion and £21 million on other
capital projects.  
Net capital expenditure in 2003/04 is expected
to increase modestly, with investment
concentrated on the regulatory asset base,
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
5 delivering the regulated rate of return. In
particular, further investment will be undertaken
in our overhead network modernisation
programme.   
• Be at or near the regulatory efﬁciency frontier
– Outperform operating cost targets
– Achieve better than planned output from 
capex
In line with our strategic priorities, we expect to
be at or near the regulatory efﬁciency frontier for
the next price review period beginning in April
2005. As previously stated, targeted cash cost
savings of £75 million due by March 2003 were
achieved ahead of schedule by September 2002,
reﬂecting our increased commercial focus in the
division. As a result, a further target of £33
million of net cost reductions was identiﬁed for
completion by 2003/04, with net cost reductions
of £18 million being achieved in 2002/03
through the initiatives set out below.
We are achieving better outputs from capital
expenditure by ensuring that costs are
appropriately allocated to capital projects
through our asset manager/service provider
model and have seen procurement savings of
over 10% in a number of key purchase areas
such as distribution transformers, overhead lines
and cables. Additionally we have conducted a
benchmark review of call centre services, are
making more efﬁcient use of contractors,
achieving improved staff ﬂexibility using site
start arrangements and adopting a ﬂexible day
working system.
• Achieve high standards of customer service
We continue to focus on delivering high
standards of customer service. Our network
performance as measured by Customer
Interruptions and Customer Minutes Lost
indicates that we are on track to be able to
participate in Ofgem’s Information and
Incentives Programme (IIP) when the reward
mechanism for outperforming the regulatory
targets is put in place by 2004/05. 
Our performance against Ofgem’s standard for
responding to customers’ written correspondence
has improved signiﬁcantly. In addition, our
performance relative to the industry as measured
by Ofgem’s customer satisfaction survey has
ensured we are placed in the incentive reward
band under the terms of the IIP. Further, a recent
Government report recognised our good
performance during a gale-force storm in the
Mersey and North Wales area on 27 October 2002.
We received speciﬁc praise for our performance
in emergency preparation, telephone response
and regular and realistic feedback to customers
on estimated times of reconnection.
• Invest consistently to add value
Capital expenditure to date contributes to
maintaining the value of our asset base. Progress
in the Berwick and Borders Investment Programme,
which represents an investment of £11 million,
continues to be made with 65% of the 33kV circuits
included in the programme being completed.
Additionally 63% of the 11kV circuits included in
the programme have been completed or are
under construction. This part of the overhead
line build programme has been accelerated and
is on target for completion by March 2004. 
Reinforcement of the transmission network will
improve both the performance and resilience of
our network, with high proﬁle projects at Gretna
and Chapelcross representing a £13 million
investment. Beneﬁts of these projects include the
strengthening of the network to deal with the
Chapelcross power station closure. These projects
are being delivered on time and to budget.
The Government target of 10% of supply from
renewable sources by 2010 is an opportunity for
Infrastructure Division to invest in network
capacity. Our transmission business has
participated in a recent network study that
explored the existing Scottish and Northern
England networks’ potential to support increased
volumes of new renewable generation. The study
identiﬁed three progressive steps required to
upgrade our transmission network and we believe
the associated investment to be valued at roughly
£300 million – £400 million over 10 years
dependent on renewable progress. We are
currently working to develop detailed plans in
relation to this opportunity. In addition, we
believe our distribution networks in Scotland and
Manweb are well positioned to develop network
investment opportunities in support of renewable
generation, should Government targets be met.
The formal price control reviews of SP
Transmission, SP Distribution and SP Manweb
will continue during the forthcoming year. We
have been working with Ofgem and the rest of
the industry to develop the framework of price
controls applying to all network monopoly
companies and lay the foundations for the
formal distribution Price Control Reviews.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
6
Chief Executive’s Review
continued We believe a key issue for the reviews is the
provision of a sufﬁcient and stable return to
allow companies to attract and retain funding
from capital markets. A further issue relates to
ﬁnding ways to facilitate renewable energy in line
with Government targets. Both have implications
for the working of the regulatory regime and for
the long-term safety and integrity of the UK
electricity infrastructure.  
The outcome from the Price Control Review
should take account of guidance from the
Government on social and environmental
objectives, and recognise any additional
expenditure arising from such objectives. Our
performance in the recent asset risk
management survey demonstrated our ability to
invest efﬁciently and effectively, and our cost and
storm response performances provide us with
the credibility to inﬂuence this important debate. 
We should not lose sight of the fact that the
industry is entering a new phase where simple
cost-cutting and moderate investment leading to
price cuts for customers will no longer sustain
future performance, and price increases will be
required. We are committed to working with Ofgem
and the rest of the industry throughout the Price
Control Review process to deliver a successful
outcome that balances the interests of
shareholders, customers and all other stakeholders. 
UK Division
The UK Division is our competitive, integrated
generation and supply business. The Division
manages activities across the energy value chain,
maximising value from a diverse energy portfolio
of some 5,000 MW of coal, gas, hydro and wind
powered plants through to our national
customer base of over 3.6 million customers, via
an energy management function that acts to
balance and hedge energy needs. The strategic
priorities of the UK Division set at the beginning
of 2002/03 were:
• Enhance margins through our integrated 
operations
• Grow customer numbers and improve 
customer service
• Make selective investments using proven 
knowledge and skills
Operating proﬁt for the UK Division increased by
£18 million to £73 million for the year to 31
March 2003, mainly due to last year’s results
including a £19 million exceptional
reorganisation charge. Operating proﬁt,
excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items, was £78 million for the year, £1 million
lower compared to the previous year. Net energy
margins have performed strongly, increasing by
£15 million before higher depreciation, costs to
capture and investment in energy efﬁciency
schemes of £12 million and increased pension
costs of £4 million. The impact of lower
wholesale electricity prices has been mitigated
by our integrated approach to managing the
energy value chain whereby our own electricity
production is extensively matched to our
customer demand across Great Britain. The
renegotiation of the Nuclear Energy Agreement
(NEA) with British Energy (BE) at a market
related price has delivered a beneﬁt of
approximately £25 million in the current year
and provides a hedge against revenues which
have been impacted by lower wholesale prices. 
During the year the UK Division invested £68
million in capital projects, a £41 million
reduction on the previous year. £29 million was
invested in new generation and gas storage
assets, £19 million in generation plant overhaul
and refurbishment and £20 million on other
projects including business transformation and
information technology.
In 2003/04, subject to obtaining planning
permission, net capital expenditure for the UK
Division could increase substantially as a result
of our commitment to increase our windfarm
capacity. In addition, we plan to invest in gas
storage development and upgrades to generation
assets required to maintain our generating
capacity. All investments are projected to have
returns signiﬁcantly in excess of the cost of
capital and enhance earnings.
• Enhance margins through our integrated
operations
During the year we continued to beneﬁt from the
ﬂexibility of our plant portfolio. We have
maintained what we believe is a best in class
performance in the Balancing Mechanism, in
particular from our ﬂexible CCGT plant at Rye
House, and our pumped storage facility at
Cruachan which is being upgraded in capacity
by 10%. We continue to optimise the operating
regime across our plant portfolio, aiming to
deliver the lowest sustainable costs and to
position it to take maximum advantage of
commercial opportunities.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
7 The renegotiation of the NEA relieved the Division
of a signiﬁcant cost burden during the year, but
the future of the remaining restructuring
contracts is still unresolved. We continue to press
the Government strongly on this issue. Whilst we
expect wholesale electricity prices to remain
depressed for the next two years, there could be
upward price pressure emerging from tightening
of the capacity margin throughout Great Britain,
and as environmental measures such as carbon
trading and the Large Combustion Plants Directive
start to take effect. We may see some price
volatility before a new equilibrium is reached.
Retail sales revenues increased during the year,
in part following an increase in prices to
customers outside our service territories in
November 2002. Prices to the majority of
electricity customers in our Scottish and Manweb
territories were increased effective 1 April 2003,
although in both instances we have preserved our
competitive dual fuel prices and provided nearly
all customers affected by the April 2003 price
increase with the opportunity of mitigating the
increase by changing to a more economical
product package.
Our business transformation programme, which
is underpinned by 6 Sigma methodology,
continues to deliver signiﬁcant savings to the
business. In the year to 31 March 2003, we have
delivered revenue and cost beneﬁts of £14
million across our business processes including
sales and marketing, billing and debt. The
utilisation of 6 Sigma methodology is now being
extended throughout the UK Division.
• Grow customer numbers and improve
customer service
We continue to be successful in growing our
customer base. Customer numbers now stand at
3.65 million, up by approximately 150,000 in the
year to 31 March 2003. As well as gaining new
customers, we have successfully reduced overall
churn by 4 percentage points compared with the
prior year.
Customer retention and win-back continues to be
an important part of our marketing activities and
we have deployed TV advertising to good effect,
emphasising that our dual fuel customers can
beneﬁt from a competitive price by joining
ScottishPower.
In response to customer research we introduced
a new bill design, to provide clearer and more
concise communication of charges and have
improved the level of service provided by our call
centres during the year. 
ScottishPower was amongst the pioneers of the
industry’s EnergySure accreditation scheme for
sales staff, which will be governed by an external
code administrator. All ScottishPower’s domestic
sales teams have now been accredited to this
customer service and quality standard and we
are now rolling out the scheme to cover all the
relevant sales and marketing channels.
In addition we have introduced three new energy
products during the year, including Capped Price
and No Standing Charge offers, which have
further enhanced the range available to customers.
• Make selective investments using proven
knowledge and skills
The Renewables Obligation has created a market
framework that allows developers to capitalise
on the UK’s rich resource of wind energy with
eligible developments attracting Renewables
Obligation Certiﬁcates (ROCs) currently worth
approximately £45 for every MWh produced.
With our strong track record in site identiﬁcation
and development, we are well placed to deliver
investments with an attractive return and
enhanced earnings, and to market effectively
the energy produced from renewable sources.
In the year ended 31 March 2003, we have
made planning applications for 279 MW of
windfarm capacity and we now have in excess of
546 MW awaiting planning consent. We have
also begun environmental assessments on
around 300 MW of capacity at additional
potential sites. Progress towards planning
consent for our Whitelee 240 MW and Black
Law 134 MW developments has been slowed by
issues related to radar at Glasgow and
Edinburgh airports respectively. A technical
solution to this problem is being progressed and
we are conﬁdent that the issue will be resolved.
With 546 MW of windfarm capacity awaiting
planning consent and the 300 MW pipeline of
projects under assessment, we are making
excellent progress towards alignment with the
Government target of 10% of supply from
renewable sources by 2010.
We are upgrading ﬁve of our smaller hydro
generating stations, totalling 45 MW, to qualify
for ROCs. As part of this, the upgrade to the 11
MW station at Bonnington was completed in
2002/03 with the other four stations to be
upgraded over the next 15 months.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
8
Chief Executive’s Review
continued Our 60 million therm gas storage planning
application at Byley in Cheshire is presently
awaiting the result of a public inquiry, expected
to be determined in 2003/04.
PPM
PPM is our competitive US energy company,
focused on providing environmentally
responsible energy products to wholesale
customers. Its principal assets are thermal and
renewable generation resources and gas storage
assets primarily serving western US and
Canadian markets. The strategic priorities of
PPM set at the beginning of 2002/03 were:
• Grow its renewable/thermal energy portfolio 
and gas storage/hub services
• Optimise returns through the integration of 
assets and commercial activities
PPM reported an operating proﬁt of £28 million
for the year, compared to a loss of £5 million last
year. The growth in operating proﬁt for the year
was due to the increased contribution from long-
term sales contracts and gas storage activities
and optimisation beneﬁts of £53 million, partly
offset by higher depreciation charges and other
operating costs of £17 million to support
business growth and the beneﬁt from settlement
of a £3 million contract in the prior year. 
PPM’s net capital expenditure for the year was
£36 million, a decrease of £170 million on last
year, which included investment to complete the
Klamath Falls and West Valley generation
projects. In the current year, the business
invested £30 million in new generation and £6
million in other projects. In addition, we acquired
the Katy gas storage facility for £101 million.
In 2003/04, PPM’s net capital spend is expected
to increase, primarily as a result of the
construction of new windfarms and development
opportunities including Moraine and Flying
Cloud, which are expected to deliver favourable
rates of return and enhance earnings.
• Grow its renewable/thermal energy portfolio
and gas storage/hub services
PPM continues to grow its renewable energy
business and has recently announced the
development of the 44 MW Flying Cloud Wind
Project in Iowa, which includes a 15 year
agreement to sell power to Interstate Power &
Light, a subsidiary of Alliant Energy. In addition,
construction of the 51 MW Moraine Wind Project
in Minnesota has commenced. The Moraine
project is fully contracted with a 15 year
agreement to sell power to the Northern States
Power Company. This will bring PPM’s total wind
power under contract to more than 560 MW,
and total thermal/renewable resource under
PPM’s ownership or control to approximately
1,350 MW.
In addition to its renewable generation portfolio,
PPM has a total of 37 billion cubic feet (BCF) of
gas storage capacity under ownership, up from
14 BCF the prior year. This includes the 21 BCF
acquired at the Katy gas storage facility in
December 2002 and a 2 BCF expansion of the
Alberta Hub gas storage facility during the year.
PPM has successfully integrated the Katy assets
and is on target to deliver expected results. PPM
intends to add to its 40% ownership in the
Alberta Hub gas storage facility with the
purchase of an additional ownership interest this
spring. 
• Optimise returns through integration of
assets and commercial activities
Integration of plant operations, contract dispatch
and energy management added $7 million in
the year. The optimisation beneﬁts come from
displacing plant operations with low-priced
power purchases, selling the displaced gas or
placing it in storage, as well as using
transmission and contract delivery ﬂexibility to
manage locational price differences in both gas
and power. 
PPM has new and expanded terms for energy
supply to the Sacramento Municipal Utility
District, one of PPM’s largest customers.
Arrangements include revisions to original long-
term contracts executed in 2002/03, as well as
sales of up to half the output of the 150 MW
High Winds Energy Center in northern California
and 100 MW of summer peaking power supply
from PPM’s portfolio.  
In 2002/03, PPM placed 319 MW under long-
term contract. In addition, PPM has effectively
managed its commodity exposure, having sold
its positions forward for 5-25 years. Fluctuating
commodity prices have little impact on PPM’s
portfolio value, except where increased volatility
gives PPM an opportunity to take advantage of
plant options, delivery ﬂexibility, gas storage and
other tactics to maximise value. 
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
9 Regulatory and Government Policy Issues
Multi-State Process (MSP)
PaciﬁCorp continues work on the MSP, which is
designed to resolve how prudently incurred costs
are allocated among the six states in which
PaciﬁCorp operates. A collaborative process is
underway to identify possible solutions, conduct
technical conferences with participants and meet
with key parties to examine speciﬁc issues.
PaciﬁCorp intends to ﬁle a ﬁnal, detailed
regulatory proposal with each state utility
commission this summer.  
RTO West
PaciﬁCorp and nine other utilities received initial
approval of their RTO West proposal in
September 2002 from the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC). Under the
proposal, which the FERC called “Best in Class”
among all the RTO ﬁlings in terms of the
proposed design, structure and thoroughness of
approach, the ﬁling utilities will retain ownership
of their transmission assets, but transfer
operational control of their system to RTO West.
As proposed, RTO West will help stabilise
electricity transmission and guard against
market manipulation in the western part of the
United States and Canada, while providing a
reasonable level of return for future transmission
investments. The RTO West members are
currently planning to ﬁle with the FERC this
summer and expect a response from the FERC
by the end of 2003.
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)
The FERC continues its various investigations
into western US market manipulation related to
the 2000/01 energy crisis. As a regulated utility
that participated in these markets primarily to
meet the company’s own power requirements,
PaciﬁCorp has responded to various data
requests from the FERC and other market
participants. These cases involve trading
practices connected with the California power
crisis, as well as spot market refund cases, and
complaints brought by PaciﬁCorp against
wholesale power marketers to seek refunds for
high-priced power purchased in 2001.
PaciﬁCorp continues to press for economic
recovery, while fully responding to requests for
information.
British Electricity Trading and Transmission
Arrangements (BETTA) 
The recently announced delay by the
Department of Trade and Industry to the
introduction of BETTA will not have a material
effect on ScottishPower in 2003/04. The
ﬁnancial impact of the BETTA Bill is broadly
neutral for ScottishPower, but zonal charges for
transmission access and losses would have a
negative impact on the generation business in
the UK Division. We were pleased to see that the
Trade and Industry Select Committee, in its Fifth
Report, recommended delay in the
implementation of transmission access reform
until the costs and beneﬁts are able to be
assessed on a Great Britain-wide basis.
ScottishPower, together with a number of other
companies, has ﬁled for a judicial review of
Ofgem’s decision to implement zonal
transmission losses in England and Wales.
Energy White Paper
The recently published White Paper on energy
sets out to achieve a lower carbon energy
system, proposing signiﬁcant investment in
renewable energy, energy efﬁciency and in
networks. The UK Division is well placed to take
early mover advantage on renewable generation
and the Infrastructure Division should beneﬁt
from the Government’s commitment to investing
in networks. We are pleased that Ofgem
recognises the need to plan and develop
networks to facilitate the transmission of
renewable energy from Scotland to centres of
demand in the rest of Great Britain.
Looking ahead
During 2002/03, we reported each quarter our
progress in delivering the key strategic priorities
for each of our four businesses. Some of those
priorities have now been achieved and further
new priorities have been identiﬁed. Accordingly,
looking ahead our strategic priorities are as
follows:
PaciﬁCorp
• Achieve ROE target/$1 billion EBIT by 
2004/05
• Manage energy risk and supply/demand 
balance
• Deliver excellent customer service
• Invest to grow the regulatory asset base, 
including delivery of the integrated resource plan
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
10
Chief Executive’s Review
continued Infrastructure Division
• Invest consistently to add future value, 
including supporting renewables
• Optimise our position through the 2005 price 
control reviews and the introduction of BETTA
• Deliver cost-effective, high quality customer 
service
UK Division
• Enhance margins through our integrated 
operations 
• Increase the value of our customer base 
through targeted sales growth and improved 
customer service
• Progress towards achieving 10% of electricity 
supply from renewable sources by 2010 
PPM
• Continue to be a leading provider of renewable
energy products 
• Grow natural gas storage and hub services 
business 
• Create additional value by optimising the returns
from our capability across gas and power
Conclusion
Our consistent focus on performance last year
enabled us to deliver a good set of results. We
will continue to place a premium on leading
operational performance, to secure further
improvements in the results of our businesses.
There are substantial opportunities to expand
ScottishPower through incremental investments
in each of our businesses, particularly in
networks, generation including renewables and
gas storage. With as much as 40% of our capital
investment in new assets in these areas, we
believe we are well positioned to continue to
grow. The outlook for ScottishPower remains
positive, with further improvements expected
from our businesses. We also believe that our
continued focus will enable us to take advantage
of the opportunities to create shareholder value
that will, over time, arise from the changing
structure of our industry in the UK, the rest of
Europe and the US.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
11
Ian Russell Chief Executive
7 May 2003
