 Sdi Group plc Annu Al report And Accounts 2009 02
at a Glance
although the last 16 months have been challenging, retailers continue to 
recognise the long-term cost savings that our solutions offer. The acquisition 
of pEp and the reduction of costs to increase efficiency means we have a solid 
platform from which to grow the business further. Whilst trading conditions remain 
uncertain, a strong new business pipeline and an increasing number of contract 
wins allow us to look to the future with optimism.
Sdi Group experience
SDi Group is underpinned by over 30 years’ experience 
operating within the retail sector and is aware of the 
challenges facing customers, such as increased 
competition, margin reduction, consolidation and 
new channels to market. its solutions are designed to be 
future proof and to help retailers create competitive edge 
through innovation and increased efficiency. The Group 
is now successfully applying this wealth of knowledge 
to new sectors and working closely with leading players 
in the wholesale, fulfilment and e-commerce arenas.
SDi Group works closely in partnership with each client 
providing a bespoke solution that brings financial value 
and operational efficiencies. over the years the company’s 
impressive growth and unrivalled levels of repeat business 
– over 50% – is testament to the success of this approach.
inteGrated SolutionS
as SDi Group offers both consultancy and systems 
integration, clients can benefit from a total logistics 
solution package which includes materials handling 
consulting, as well as design, engineering, fabrication, 
installation and integration services.
The Group manufactures some specialised pieces 
of hardware and provides training on operating 
the systems and also has its own teams which 
programme and maintain the software to run the 
systems. This is important in that it helps lock-in 
the customer in terms of future developments 
and maintenance revenues. 
The solutions are sometimes installed in completely 
new buildings or alternatively projects can be automated 
improvements to existing operations designed to 
reduce distribution costs and support the customers’ 
expectations of future growth. These solutions are 
essential for high street retailers to be able to maintain 
margins through reduction of distribution costs at a time 
when retail globally has been experiencing immense 
competition on both value and choice.
SDi consistently delivers its projects on time and on 
budget and takes responsibility for the success of every 
aspect of work that is undertaken. This means that 
clients can be rest assured that their return on 
investment is safe.
tHe cHallenGe
Magna Automotive, a uK based 
automotive supplier, needed 
additional space at the company’s 
manufacturing site in Burton‑on‑ t rent 
to accommodate extra equipment 
for the production of injection 
moulded internal door panels. 
In addition, Magna Automotive 
was looking to enhance workforce 
productivity and increase operational 
visibility and control.
tHe Solution
sdI Group uK developed an 
automated storage and retrieval 
system to optimise the facility and free 
up valuable space for new equipment. 
The design incorporates a two-floor 
mezzanine structure measuring 
18,000 sq ft, which has created 
11,500 sq ft of additional 
ground-floor space, increasing 
capacity to meet production 
needs and handle future growth.
the automation of previously 
manual handling processes 
within the manufacturing plant 
has enabled Magna Automotive 
to make best use of its workforce 
and redeploy resources to 
core areas, resulting in a 
headcount redeployment.
case study: Magna Automotive
iMpRov ED uTiLiSaTio N 
iNcREaSED 
pRoDucTiviTY 
ENhaNcED coNTRoL
conSultinG and deSiGn
SDi’s consulting and design teams have considerable 
experience in a range of different disciplines including 
retail operations, architecture, industrial, mechanical and 
electrical engineering, software engineering and marketing. 
Its unique consultancy approach consistently delivers 
innovative solutions that bring about real business benefits 
such as optimised workforce, increased operational 
efficiency, performance, visibility and control.
GloBal opportunitieS
SDi has long-standing relationships with many global 
retailers. by developing its own international presence, it has 
been able to leverage these relationships as its customers 
expand off-shore. As retail continues to move into the 
Eastern bloc and asia, SDi has the opportunity to further 
develop its global coverage and move into new markets. 
This model is well proven in France, Spain and italy where 
customers have been able to use SDi’s experience to gain 
a competitive advantage in their local markets.
SoF tware inteGration
The Group’s software development resource is strongly 
represented by dedicated development centres in the 
uK and in Germany. SDi is continually upgrading and 
enhancing its systems technology to improve both its 
product portfolio and service offering to customers. 
Robust software packages have been designed to 
run sortation, warehouse control, diagnostics and 
maintenance systems to the most exacting standards 
– irrespective of whether they are stand-alone or if they 
have been interfaced with customers’ own host systems. 
SDi ensures that its software allows customers to get the 
most from their warehouse or distribution centre and 
operates a ‘best in class’ approach ensuring that the 
most appropriate software is supplied. Sortation, storage 
and distribution are all managed in order to balance 
the efficient use of resources against the optimisation 
of available storage. c omplete stock and user traceability 
is provided through the systematic auditing of all events, 
either user initiated or automatically performed.
SDi’s systems development teams will integrate 
and tailor the packages to individual operational 
and business requirements. Sdi Group plc Annu Al report And Accounts 2009  03
tHe cHallenGe
the leading european sports 
equipment retailer required a series 
of automated warehouse systems 
upgrades at various distribution 
centres throughout europe. 
the customer required a solution 
that would increase the capacity 
and efficiency at the sites.
tHe Solution
sdI France designed and installed 
a bespoke automated warehouse 
solution for folded garments that 
could handle both inbound and 
outbound products to ensure the 
customers’ stores received orders 
in the timeliest manner possible.
By automating the picking and 
shipping processes of products 
within the distribution centre, the 
company has been able to handle 
a significant growth in throughput 
without the need to expand the 
warehouse footprint or workforce 
at the site. 
tHe cHallenGe
l ogaritme, a company supplying 
equipment to public hospitals 
and medical centres in the catalan 
region of spain, was consolidating 
its warehousing operation from 
five sites to a new purpose-built, 
15,000 sq m facility in s ant s adurni 
d’anoia, Barcelona. logaritme 
required an automated handling 
solution for a unit picking operation 
within the new warehouse.
tHe Solution
sd I spain has developed an 
automated warehouse handling 
system that provides an efficient 
storage and picking solution to service 
medical facilities across catalonia. 
the system has enabled 
l ogaritme to effectively 
consolidate its warehouse 
operation, significantly reducing 
operating costs and headcount. 
By adopting the solution, the 
organisation has also enhanced 
picking speed and accuracy, 
so it can better respond to its 
customers, whilst capacity 
has been  increased to handle 
future growth in the business.
case study: leading 
european sports retailer
auToMa TED SoL uTioN
ENhaNcED opERa TioN
paRTNERShip
case study: logaritme
auToMa TED SoL uTioN 
coNSuLT aNcY 
ENha Nc ED op ERaTio N 
our customers include:
aRMaND ThiERRY 
aSDa GEoRGE 
bERTRaMS 
coMMERciaL Ecc Sa
coop
DEca ThaL oN
DhL 
GuESS JEaNS 
huGo b oSS
JacK WiLLS
JD WiLLiaMS 
M&S MoDE 
MoSS bRoS 
MoviMoD a
ND LoGiSTic S 
oRSa Y 
PBL 
pRiMaRK 
TK Maxx
TNT FaShioN GRoup
WhSMiTh
