 06
SDI GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
“
OUR SOLUTIONS qUITE Of TEN 
DEmONSTRATES SUCh CLEAR vIAbLE 
AND qUICk PA ybACk PERIODS ThAT 
wE CONTINUE TO hA vE A STRONG 
PIPELINE Of NEw bUSINESS
ChIEF ExECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
The past year has been one of both high activity and growth as 
we instigated and completed the restructuring of the Group leading 
up to our admission to AIM in July 2007. Our principal objective 
in bringing the business to AIM was to facilitate a coherent single 
brand across the world and, as a result, utilise our existing capital 
and extensive consultancy capability to grow and develop the 
business. The response from our customers has been extremely 
positive; SDI Group is now being seen as a company which 
is capable of performing on a world stage. 
This result is a testament to the quality of our team. Despite the 
significant nature of the Group restructuring and admission to AIM, 
it did not detract from the effective running and development of the 
business, nor has it diminished the enthusiasm for the future 
development of SDI Group.
I am pleased to report that our more cohesive structure and new 
operational procedures resulting from the reorganisation of Group 
companies have delivered a platform on which we have been able 
to increase collaboration as well as sharing best practice in order 
to broaden our offering to existing and new customers. This has 
meant specifically increasing our strengths in internet fulfilment and 
developing a number of new markets by product and geography.
This continues to be work in progress and is being driven by 
our senior consultants who are seeing real benefit through this 
change. More specifically, the admission to AIM, and in particular 
the restructuring, has enabled the Group to be seen as a market 
leader in apparel materials handling solutions with significant 
market share and customer references. I believe this will continue 
to be a significant strength in the future growth of the business.
During the year to 30 November 2007, we started to see the benefits 
of the globalisation of SDI in that we were able to compete on larger 
projects and secure contract wins with new international customers. 
Furthermore, the added products, in both software and hardware 
terms available from the enlarged Group, enabled contract wins in new 
markets such as the automotive, healthcare and the parcel industries. 
I am also extremely encouraged by the creation of a new maintenance 
department in the USA based on the model employed in the UK. 
Our existing customer base has welcomed this enhancement to our 
offering and we are fast-tracking the recruitment of maintenance staff 
to keep up with growing demand. This model will be rolled out to all 
SDI Group companies by June 2008.
_1_SDI_front_ar07.indd   6 08/04/2008   17:00:41 SDI GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 07
The Group’s consultancy services provide the blueprint for the 
solution on any given project and this will typically differentiate the 
Group from its competitors. The Group’s operations in Germany, 
the USA and the UK also provide the bespoke software solution and 
maintenance which ensures that relationships with these customers 
continue after installation. As well as providing the Group with ongoing 
revenue streams, it enables the Group to be well positioned for 
involvement with the future projects of these customers.
Our vision continues to be to grow market share through reaching 
out further internationally to new countries and hence new 
customers, while further enhancing existing solutions to drive 
distribution costs down. 
Whilst the Group’s main operations are in the UK and the USA, 
we have a growing presence in other jurisdictions including France, 
Italy, Spain, the Netherlands and Chile. To accompany this growth 
strategy we have also identified the requirement to compete with 
a number of our competitors in their home market of Germany. 
To achieve this objective we have formed SDI Group Germany and 
recruited the former Chief Executive of a major global competitor 
to grow and develop this business. We will seek to accelerate our 
penetration into the German market both organically and through 
acquisition where appropriate.
We are also seeing an expansion across the developing retail 
markets of the world and are currently working on the formation 
of SDI India and the development of SDI Brazil with local partners 
to work on a number of opportunities we currently have through 
references from US retailers. During 2008 we intend to investigate 
opportunities in Eastern Europe where we have had a number of 
enquiries in the last three months for consultancy services which 
we expect to lead to design and build projects in due course.
This expanding international market is driven by three principal 
factors: firstly, retailers are increasing the variety of products sold 
as well as providing a larger variety of sizes, specifications and 
price ranges in an attempt to enhance their offering in response to 
consumer demand; secondly, retailers in general, and large garment 
retailers in particular, are moving to source their products from lower 
cost jurisdictions around the world, leading to a corresponding 
increase in logistics requirements; and thirdly, the developing retail 
markets themselves have been experiencing a dramatic increase 
in distribution requirements as their local market develops with large 
stores and consolidation of smaller retailers.
As a result of the international structure of the business and our 
reducing dependence on any one country for profits, we believe 
that, despite a slowing high street sales environment in UK and USA, 
we are seeing increasing activity levels in mainland Europe and an 
increasing requirement by all retailers to decrease distribution costs 
to improve margins; it is here we are showing ourselves ideally 
placed to show retailers opportunities to reduce costs. 
The global nature of the business and its sustained growth 
continues to present a strong pipeline and since we achieved 
PLC status we are seeing an increase in the number of projects 
we are currently working on. This has resulted in the Group 
already securing orders for the current financial year equal to 43% 
of our revenue forecast and having a potential pipeline of projects 
worth £120m over the next 18 months. 
I am conscious of the fact that this growth will require a strong 
foundation of consultancy and to this end we have attracted 
a number of high calibre consultants from competitor businesses 
since flotation to grow the business and attract new customers. 
Additionally, we also recognise the qualities of our existing teams 
and have put a number of initiatives in place to fast track younger 
members of the Group who have responded favourably to the 
opportunities arising through the growth of the business. 
Our solutions quite often demonstrate such clear, visible and 
quick payback periods. These facts mean that we are well 
placed to pursue our continued expansion into new undeveloped 
territories and into product markets with untapped distribution 
requirements. Our strategies for growth are in place and we look 
forward to delivering this growth in the future.
gORdON sMITh
ChIEF ExECUTIVE OFFICER
26 MARCh 2008
_1_SDI_front_ar07.indd   7 08/04/2008   17:00:41
