 SDI Group is underpinned by over 30 years’ experience operating 
within the retail sector and is aware of the challenges facing customers, 
such as increased competition, margin reduction, consolidation and 
new channels to market. Its solutions are designed to be future proof 
and to help retailers create competitive edge through innovation and 
increased efficiency. The Group is now successfully applying this 
wealth of knowledge to new sectors and working closely with leading 
players in the wholesale, fulfilment and e-commerce arenas.
SDI Group works closely in partnership with each client providing 
a bespoke solution that brings financial value and operational 
efficiencies. Over the years the Company’s impressive growth and 
unrivalled levels of repeat business – over 50% – is testament 
to the success of this approach.
As SDI Group offers both consultancy and systems integration, 
clients can benefit from a total logistics solution package which 
includes materials handling consulting, as well as design, 
engineering, fabrication, installation and integration services.
The Group manufactures some specialised pieces of hardware 
and provides training on operating the systems and also has its 
own teams which programme and maintain the software to run 
the systems. This is important in that it helps lock-in the customer 
in terms of future developments and maintenance revenues. 
The solutions are sometimes installed in completely new buildings 
or alternatively projects can be automated improvements to existing 
operations designed to reduce distribution costs and support the 
customers’ expectations of future growth. These solutions are 
essential for high street retailers to be able to maintain margins 
through reduction of distribution costs at a time when retail globally has 
been experiencing immense competition on both value and choice.
SDI consistently delivers its projects on time and on budget and 
takes responsibility for the success of every aspect of work that 
is undertaken. This means that clients can be rest assured that their 
return on investment is safe. 
b SDI GROUP ExPERIENCE b INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS
AT A gLANcE
b OUR CUSTOmERS 
 …PRIMARK PbL whsMITh cOMMERcIAL EccsA Asd A gEORgE dhL Nd LOgIsTIcs  
 jc PENNy M&s MOdE LEvIs jd wILLIAMs bERTRAMs TOLL gE cAPITAL sTAgE sTOREs  
 ARMANd ThIERRy MOss bROs b ORdERs shOE cARNIv AL REITMANs  
 TOMMy hILfIgER ORsA y…
SDI GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 02
_1_SDI_front_ar07.indd   2 08/04/2008   17:00:37
