 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 
2
SDL STRATEGY
37
•	 We are one team – embracing core values of innovation, collaboration and communication.
•	 We are all ambassadors for SDL – upholding the highest standards of behaviour with customers, suppliers, 
communities and one another. This is summarised in the Code of Conduct which has been rolled out in 2011.
•	 SDL rejects all forms of harassment, unfair treatment and bullying. All forms of discrimination will be 
explicitly rejected whether on the basis of gender, age, race, skin colour, ethnic or national origin, trade union 
membership, marital status, disability, religion, sexual orientation or any other form of discrimination prohibited 
by national law.
•	 We do not operate forced labour practices and will only employ individuals who are working voluntarily of their 
own free will. All forms of coercion will be explicitly rejected.
•	 SDL is proud of its globally diverse culture. In our workforce and through our recruitment processes, we value 
diversity and equal opportunity.
•	 Leadership capability is essential to success – our leaders are expected to prioritise effective communication to 
employees.
•	 Where possible we provide employees with the opportunity to participate in the value creation of SDL with share 
ownership plans that are being progressively introduced to large geographies.
•	 We fully consider applications from disabled candidates and we will aim to provide continuity of employment 
where existing employees become disabled.
•	 SDL Foundation – we enable our employees to be socially responsible and contribute to the communities in 
which they live and we actively encourage our employees to contribute ideas to the SDL Foundation, a charity 
which supports sustainable causes around the world. We enable our employees to participate in projects 
sponsored by the SDL Foundation.
•	 We openly assess individual performance and provide clarity of personal objectives that are aligned with 
corporate goals.
•	 Where it is custom and practice or required by local law, management consults and constructively engages with 
representatives or works councils.
EMPLOYMENT POLICY HIGHLIGHTS 38
BE A ROLE MODEL IN THE COMMUNITIES IN 
WHICH WE OPERA TE
Being present in local communities is something we 
consider a privilege. We will strive to improve quality 
of life and be morally responsible in the communities 
in which we operate. We operate ethically and with 
integrity in all we do. 
