 12
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
Dear Shareholder
Summary Performance
We are pleased to report a year of significant growth. Our 
progress executing our strategic vision resulted in record 
revenue and profit performance. Revenue for the year 
was £229.0m (2010: £203.5m). Operating profit before 
taxation and amortisation of intangible assets (“PBTA”) was 
£39.7m (2010: £35.4m). Net cash in the business at year end 
amounted to £70.4m (2010: £46.6m). 
Headline revenue growth of 13% includes acquisition related 
growth of 2% and a 1% decrease due to foreign exchange 
movements in the period, resulting in an underlying organic 
growth at constant currency of 12%.
Market Opportunity
With SDL solutions setting an industry standard in the 
Global Information Management marketplace, enterprises 
are increasingly seeking strategic solutions to the growing 
challenge of customer engagement in the modern world. As 
a result of deepening relationships with clients, the cross-
selling of our products and services is evolving into increased 
strategic sales across the group to leading brands such as 
Atlas Copco, CNH, Getty Images and Hach Company.
Investment into the Future
We increased our Research and Development investment by 
8% in 2011 to £14.8m (2010: £13.6m). Focussing on market 
innovations and product vision through a targeted research 
and development programme, key product launches in 2011 
were:
•	 SDL Tridion 2011, our market leading Web Content 
Management product, rated as a leader by Forrester and 
Gartner, with new mobile, targeting and personalisation 
technology;
•	 SDL Trados Studio 2011, a new version of our leading 
desktop translation product;
•	 SDL LiveContent 2011, a step-change enabling product 
which automates the production of smart interactive 
product documentation; and
•	 SDL EasyTranslator, which enables text to be translated 
instantly from any document and real-time chat to 
be translated across social networking sites in 60 
languages.
In 2011, we made a strategically important investment in 
Media Asset Management with the acquisition of Calamares, 
an enterprise solution for managing video and rich media. 
We consider that live and on demand video will form an 
increasing part of web content in future. This cloud-based 
solution supports internet television, as well as social media 
platforms across a wide range of systems and devices, 
including mobile. This key capability, branded SDL Media 
Manager, has been integrated with SDL Tridion 2011 and 
further integrations with other SDL products are planned 
moving forward.
Alterian Acquisition
The acquisition of Alterian plc, completed in January 
2012, brings data analytics, campaign management and 
social media capabilities to the group. SDL has historically 
partnered with vendors who have these technologies. 
However we believe an integrated product suite that allows 
our customers to track and analyse web and social activity 
is a crucial component in the creation and presentation of 
content. Providing our customers with integrated solutions 
that allow them to understand exactly what customers 
are saying and looking at, in the context of what they are 
producing, via our content management technology is 
important and provides closed loop engagement.
Global Information Management Vision and Strategy
As the internet enters its third decade of commercialisation, 
there is now a mountain of rich digital information 
available for us to consume and, because of this, the web is 
increasingly becoming a central part of our lives. With 2.1 
billion people now using the internet regularly and with 
the internet generation becoming the new decision makers 
in industry, the web will become even more important to 
global businesses as expectations from the web increase.
 
The cornerstone of SDL’s strategy is our belief that everyone 
should be able to engage with the information they require 
in the way they want, in the language, the media and 
moment they choose. SDL will continue to look to the future 
and invest in technical solutions to address the opportunities 
corporations have to communicate with their clients. In 
order to deliver the above vision we have invested in:
•	 Language technology – we believe that all 
communications will need to be instantly available 
in multiple languages at a fraction of today’s cost. 
We are investing heavily into our recent acquisition 
of Language Weaver, a world-leading automated 
translation solution. We have integrated this technology 
into our Web Content Management technology and our 
freelance translation editing suites. We will seek to help 
our partners and customers bring their content into 
multiple markets at a fraction of the cost
•	 Our Content Management technology which is 
considered best in class by industry analysts, integrates 
with our translation management systems, allowing 
content to be translated and published fast and 
efficiently in multiple languages
•	 Personalisation and targeting technology with 
the acquisition of Fredhopper, a leader in retail 
personalisation and targeting. This technology is now 
integrated into our web content management products, 
allowing our customers to present the right information 
to users
•	 Multimedia management technology – we anticipate an 
increasing amount of content on the web will be video, 
graphics or pictorial, as pictures are generally more 
easily digested than text by humans. This technology 
has also been integrated into our content management 
solutions SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 
1
SDL OVERVIEW
13
•	 Data analytics, social media management and 
campaign management – through the Alterian 
acquisition – which have brought to us the ability to 
provide our customers with an integrated solution of 
monitoring, analysing, creating and targeting content 
to users
By enabling global businesses to engage with their 
customers, we help them manage their brands and drive 
their global revenues. We do this by providing enterprise-
ready, innovative solutions and services for managing the 
end-to-end customer experience.
Communication has become highly sophisticated – 
complexity is no longer acceptable and simplicity of the user 
interface is highly valued and critical to successful customer 
engagement. Multi-channel interaction is taken for granted. 
We see a shift from content to experience, exemplified by 
exponential growth in video and the growing dominance 
of social media as the opinion former. Synergistic re-use 
of content across channels and brands are key execution 
themes for global enterprises. The acquisition of Alterian 
complements SDL’s industry-leading strength in Web 
Content Management, ecommerce and personalisation 
with new Campaign Management, Analytics and Social 
Intelligence propositions. With SDL’s Global Information 
Management platform, SDL is now a leader in Customer 
Experience Management.
The fundamental growth drivers of the business remain 
unchanged. SDL and its enterprise customer base is geared 
towards globalisation, the growth of the internet, and 
growth in digital and translated content in a multi-channel 
environment. We have been careful to invest in key areas 
where these secular trends are strongest. So whilst the 
European market remains difficult, we have exposure 
to the US, Asian, South American and other emerging 
markets where these trends are showing themselves to be 
particularly robust.
Dividend
We remain confident in the operational cash generation 
capability of the business and the board is recommending 
a final dividend to the Annual General Meeting of 5.8 
pence per ordinary share, a 5.5% increase over the maiden 
dividend paid in the preceding year. 
Board of Directors
During the year a number of Board changes have been 
made. Matthew Knight was appointed as Chief Financial 
Officer, following John Hunter’s promotion from this 
position to Chief Executive Officer. Shortly after the year 
end, Mandy Gradden was appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director, strengthening the independent component of 
the Board. Jane Thompson will leave the SDL Board in 
April 2012 to focus on her own business interests, having 
provided a valuable contribution to SDL and been chair 
of our remuneration committee. Having served as a Non-
Executive Director for 10 years, John Matthews will not be 
seeking re-election at the forthcoming 2012 AGM. John has 
delivered a wealth of experience to SDL, and will be working 
as a consultant to the Board during the next year. We believe 
these Board changes improve our corporate governance, 
whilst continuing to provide us with a strong and multi-
talented Board going forward.
SDL Celebrates its 20th Anniversary
2012 marks a significant milestone as SDL celebrates its 
20th anniversary. As these results demonstrate, the Group 
has come a long way since its foundation in 1992 and IPO 
in 1999. We believe that SDL is well positioned to take 
advantage of the opportunities ahead and deliver value for 
shareholders. SDL now operates in 38 countries, with over 
2,600 people, over 1,500 enterprise customers and has 
deployed over 170,000 licences worldwide. Perhaps one of 
the most satisfying achievements is the creation of the SDL 
Foundation, our registered charity, that has helped many 
people in environments less fortunate than ours to start 
building an infrastructure for the future. As we move into 
2012 and beyond, SDL’s philosophy will remain unchanged. 
We will continue to invest in our staff, customers and 
our technology which in turn provides returns to our 
shareholders.
Outlook 
In 2011, our Global Information Management solutions 
continued to evolve and we executed strongly against our 
strategic objectives. 
Whilst macro-economic concerns exist, particularly 
over the weaker Euro zone states and the future of the 
European Currency Union, our pipeline remains solid. 
We are experiencing higher growth in North America and 
our customer presence in emerging markets such as Asia 
continues to expand and diversify. We are well positioned 
with a broad portfolio of geographies and industry sectors, 
which mitigates exposure to sector or regional economic 
events. 
We are also entering 2012 with a broader set of products and 
services and we are confident in our strategy and execution 
capability. The business has a very strong balance sheet that 
enables growth opportunities, both organic and through 
acquisition, to be pursued as they arise.
As we look forward to the future we remain confident in our 
growth prospects and SDL’s long term potential to deliver 
further profitable growth and strong shareholder returns.
Mark Lancaster
Executive Chairman
“2012 marks a significant milestone as SDL celebrates its 20th 
anniversary. The Group continues to innovate and we are delighted 
to report another year of significant progress.”
