 CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S STATEMENT
14
Summary
At SDL our vision is that we believe everyone should 
be able to engage with the information they require 
in the way they want and our mission is to enable 
global businesses to engage with their customers in the 
language, the media and at the moment they chose. 
Our core value proposition is to support businesses in 
increasing brand equity and driving revenues on a global 
basis and we seek to do this by providing enterprise ready 
innovative solutions to manage the end-to-end customer 
experience.  
Our strategic objective is to deliver superior returns to 
shareholders through execution of a growth strategy on 
five key dimensions: key account growth, cross selling, 
partner channels and strategic partnership, territory 
expansion and technology leadership and innovation. 
I am pleased to report that we made positive progress 
in all of these areas in 2011 which proved to be a 
strong year in terms of financial performance and was 
also an exceptional year for new client acquisition and 
for releasing new innovative products to the global 
marketplace.
Revenue for the year was £229.0m (2010: £203.5m), 
an excellent performance against a mixed demand 
environment which varied region by region and segment 
by segment. All businesses contributed positive revenue 
growth in 2011. Headline revenue growth of 13% includes 
acquisition related growth of 2%, a 1% decrease due 
to foreign exchange, and underlying organic growth 
at constant currency of 12%. Performance in Content 
Management continued to be particularly strong, with 
constant currency revenue growth of 19%, driven by 
demand for SDL Tridion 2011, a new product release 
to the global marketplace, and continued penetration 
of structured content products into the burgeoning 
technical documentation marketplace. Increased cross 
selling activity has also underpinned growth. Moving 
into 2012 the sales pipeline remains robust, reflective of 
new win momentum and we see no discernible change 
in decision patterns for buying SDL solutions despite an 
uncertain economy. 
Operating cashflow from operations was £32.6m (2010: 
£27.1m). Average DSO was stable which was particularly 
pleasing in a challenging environment for many 
corporations and ensured that the business maintained 
strong cash flow during the year. At the end of 2011 we 
had £70.4m of cash on the balance sheet which, combined 
with £20m of undrawn revolving credit facilities, provided 
a robust base for the completion of the Alterian acquisition 
on 27 January 2012. 
Segmental performance
We continue to report the business in three operating 
segments in 2011, this change was initiated in 2009 and 
enables our shareholders to more fully understand the 
principal business lines of the group. Performance by 
segment is as follows:  
Content Management Technologies (contributing 
£52.7m or 23% of revenue to the Group and £8.8m or 
22% of Group PBTA) (2010: contributing £45.0m or 22% of 
revenue to the Group and £7.7m or 22% of Group PBTA)
Total segment revenue grew by 17%, comprising -2% 
foreign exchange, a negligible effect from acquisitions and 
+19% underlying organic growth at constant currency. 
This is a very strong performance, where the business 
continued to differentiate its products and solutions 
through a compelling program of innovation which 
delivered significant new product releases in 2011. 
SDL Web Content Management Solutions performed 
well, particularly in North America. The new SDL Tridion 
2011 product was launched at the start of 2011. With new 
mobile, targeting and personalisation capabilities, this 
release was cited by both Forrester and Gartner as a leader 
and has gained significant traction in the global market, 
building on the established reputation of SDL Tridion.
Our Web Content Management Solutions were further 
enhanced by the small but strategic Calamares acquisition, 
a cloud based enterprise solution for managing video and 
other rich media assets. This new capability, now branded 
SDL Media Manager, is fully integrated with SDL Tridion 
2011 and supports a broad range of media, systems 
and devices including web, mobile, internet protocol 
television (IPTV) and various social media platforms. We 
expect the use of live and on demand video to increase 
significantly as we move forward against an environment 
where consumer preference for video related content as a 
preferred media is also growing rapidly. 
Structured Content Technologies continued to make 
exceptional progress, in both the established S1000D and 
emerging DITA markets. Important sales were made in 
Asia, a relatively immature market for these products, with 
interest seeded creating a solid platform for future growth. 
We are also proud to have released SDL LiveContent 2011 
during the year. This is a step-change enabling product 
which automates the production of smart interactive 
product documentation. We believe that SDL offers the 
most complete end-to-end solution for creating and 
managing user documentation, vital to the end-to-end 
user experience. SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 
1
SDL OVERVIEW
15
New clients in 2011 include Compassion International, 
GameStop, MCB Group, Sharp, Eva Air, Abu Dhabi Airport 
Company, Brother, Life Technologies Corporation, OSIsoft, 
TIBCO Software Inc. and Mattel.
Language Technologies (contributing £40.1 million or 
18% of revenue to the Group and £5.2 million or 13% of 
Group PBTA) (2010: contributing £33.9 million or 17% of 
revenue to the Group and £3.3 million or 9% of Group PBTA) 
Total segment revenue grew by 18%, comprising -1% 
foreign exchange, 11% acquisitions and 8% underlying 
growth at constant currency. The business made 
significant progress in driving profitability in 2011 and 
also established a very strong program of innovation to 
continue SDL leadership in the Language Technology 
space in the future. Our portfolio of products delivers 
innovation to users ranging from individual translators 
to global enterprises. At our core is a philosophy of 
introducing technologies that change the way people 
work; driving efficiency and consistency in global business 
operations in deriving optimal performance from complex 
language assets.      
In 2011, we saw the market and appetite for machine 
translation continue to grow and we continued to invest 
in building our fundamental science capability in this 
important area. We believe machine translation will have 
a profound future impact on the global marketplace for 
language and will form a significant component of future 
translation strategies for some rapidly growing content 
types. Language Weaver is now fully integrated into the 
Language Technology business unit and has achieved 
strong sales growth over the equivalent period last year. 
 
Demand for our enterprise Language Technology business 
was mixed with stronger demand in Europe than in North 
America. During the year we saw momentum build for 
our desktop product, SDL Trados Studio 2011, which we 
released to the global marketplace in September 2011. 
We continued to invest in building our Asia presence, 
which we believe, will be an important future market for 
Language Technology products and we see increasing 
interest from Asian corporations in optimising processes 
for management of language assets. 
New clients in 2011 included AGIP, Alfa Laval AB, Nordea 
Bank Denmark, Tencent Inc, RICOH Company Ltd and 
Panasonic Business Services Co. Ltd.
Language Services (contributing £136.2 million or 59% 
of group revenue and £25.5 million or 65% of Group 
PBTA) (2010: contributing £124.6 million or 61% of group 
revenue and £25.2 million or 71% of Group PBTA). 
2011 was a year of strong revenue growth for this segment 
and the business continued to exhibit solid growth 
characteristics and strong profit and cash generation. It 
was an exceptional year for new client acquisition across 
the business, which more than offset any individual 
customer variations as the business further intensified its 
account management approach. The business continued 
to develop its global infrastructure to drive target territory 
presence and gained new business in Latin America and 
Australia. We are also seeing progress in the Nordic region 
following organisational changes previously initiated. 
Headline revenue growth of 9% was achieved, comprising 
-1% foreign exchange and 10% underlying growth at 
constant currency. 
North America was the star performer with excellent 
revenue growth against a demand environment that 
proved highly resilient; with Europe also growing 
positively. Performance in Asia was mixed and the business 
did an outstanding job of maintaining effective operations 
through the natural disasters in Japan and Thailand, 
invoking contingency plans to continue to operate 
effectively with our clients in this period. This is a tribute to 
the quality of the SDL team in Asia. Our client portfolio in 
Asia continues to expand and I am confident in our future 
growth prospects and positioning in the region founded 
on a high quality, wholly owned local operation. 
We see the market for Language Services starting to 
segment. Quality is an absolute in this market and we 
were very pleased to further expand our quality systems 
and certifications in 2011; essential components of a 
premium offer to our global clients. Machine translation 
is also having an impact as new content types start to 
emerge for certain applications. We see more demand for 
consulting approaches that target process optimisation as 
companies wrestle with the challenge of how to effectively 
leverage language assets for brand consistency and how to 
drive innovation though new product release into global 
markets. We continue to concentrate on ensuring SDL 
has the most comprehensive solution set in the global 
marketplace to directly address these needs right through 
the end-to-end translation supply chain.   
Significant new client wins during the year included Marks 
& Spencer, Hotel.de AG, Semcon, Springer Healthcare Ltd 
and Kosan Crisplant. 
John Hunter
Chief Executive Officer
“We have confidence in our strategy and execution capability and we have 
a strong balance sheet which gives us the ability to pursue strategic growth 
opportunities both organically and through acquisition.” 2 SDL STRATEGY
16 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 
2
SDL STRATEGY
17
