 36
HUMAN RESOURCES HIGHLIGHTS
The Chief Executive Officer has global responsibility for Human Resources and Health and Safety.  Specific tasks are 
delegated to local office managers and suitably trained individuals in the organisation.  
Employment Performance 
Indicators
2011 Implementation Highlights
Staff Training, 
Induction & 
Development
Provide employees with the 
right career opportunities 
and necessary development 
framework to realise their 
potential.
Expanded the Knowledge Series, a programme that provides 
tiered modular training, that has raised skills and awareness 
standards across SDL.  The SDL Executive actively participates 
in the Knowledge Series.
Conducted a Management Development Programme for 75 
key managers across the business.
Progressively rolling out a unified Performance Management 
System across target business units and geographies.
Certification Staff certification enhances 
and raises the value of SDL 
employees.
A certification framework has been put in place to include 
technical and process training, the Knowledge Series and 
Management Development Programmes 
Innovation Nurture skills and enable greater 
collaboration and knowledge 
sharing across the group.
Software development and statistical science communities 
have been initiated to promote our core capability to innovate.
Talent review Identify critical skills. A Group-wide process to identify critical skills has been 
implemented along with succession plans.
Staff awareness Promote the values, behaviours 
and culture embraced by SDL.
SDL’s new vision, mission, values and Code of Conduct have 
been rolled out globally.
HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY
SDL recognises and accepts its responsibility as an employer to provide safe and healthy working conditions for all its 
employees.  The Company commits to maintaining a safe working office environment complying with relevant local 
legislation and providing training where appropriate in matters of health and safety. 
SDL’s policy on Health and Safety includes the following:
•	 To control the health and safety risks arising from SDL’s activities;
•	 To provide and maintain safe equipment;
•	 To establish measures for legal compliance in each global office;
•	 To ensure all employees are competent to do their tasks, and to give them adequate training;
•	 To maintain safe and healthy working conditions; and
•	 To review and revise this policy as necessary at regular intervals.
There were no fatalilties on Company business during 2011.
