 3
Group turnover on continuing operations reduced by 11.0%, working
capital fell by 9.0% and Group net debt improved by 26.5%. Capital
expenditure, at a net £6.9m, was 43% of depreciation.
In the Aerospace Division, costs were trimmed as sales declined
throughout 2003. Despite this, substantial design and development
effort was maintained, which has resulted in the Division winning
£160k per shipset on the new Airbus A380 and £230k per shipset 
on the Lockheed Martin Joint Strike Fighter (Pratt and Whitney
engine).Whilst volume production of both is still some years off,
a number of operations are already delivering pre-production and
prototype units. Both these programmes are incremental to current
business and should result in valuable growth in the future. Capital
expenditure has been low because there has been no need for
extra capacity in the current market circumstances. However,
the Group has continued to invest in its aerospace businesses.
At SSP , the Group’s aerospace ducting business in Los Angeles,
the site is being substantially redeveloped to produce a modern
facility that is representative of the capabilities of this market-leading
business. At another of the Group’s North American aerospace
businesses, Metal Bellows, the freehold of the existing site was
purchased from the landlord in January 2004 to safeguard the 
future of this valuable operation.
Automotive vehicle production was slightly down in 2003 but,
because some North American programmes came to an end,
the Division’s turnover fell further than the market and capacity in 
the USA was reduced. However, the North American engineering
capability and resource was actually increased.The heavy truck
diesel engine market in the USA is changing dramatically as truck
manufacturers convert their engines to high-pressure common 
rail technology to improve economy in use and to meet the new
emission standards being introduced in 2007. Senior has signiﬁcant
experience of common rail because of the Group’s position in the
European diesel market for passenger vehicles. As a result, Senior
currently has an unprecedented number of enquiries for new
products from the North American heavy diesel engine manufacturers.
Nominations for these products are being won and are expected
to start production in 2006. Capital expenditure has been low 
but is likely to be at a much higher level for the next two years.
Elsewhere, the establishment of the Czech plant at Olomouc 
is complete and is now proﬁtable.The transfer to a new, larger
facility in Cape Town, South Africa, was completed successfully 
in December 2003.
The Group’s largest industrial businesses struggled in 2003 with
weak markets and, despite the belief that 2004 should be a little
better, meeting the challenge to remain competitive is a high
priority. Pathway, which manufactures metal and fabric expansion
joints, will close its Tennessee plant during 2004 and consolidate
manufacturing at its plant in New Braunfels,Texas. Hargreaves
enters 2004 with a stronger orderbook having won the ductwork
contract for the new Wembley Stadium. No disposals were made 
in 2003, but it was not for a lack of effort with good progress
being made on the disposal of the Group’s five industrial hose
businesses. Despite undergoing a protracted and ongoing disposal
process, these businesses each improved their performance in 2003
to the great credit of their management and employees.
Product and new programme development are key to the Group’s
future success and consequently had a high priority during the
period with engineering resources being maintained despite the
near-term profit pressures.
Irrespective of market conditions, the Group remains committed
to the strategy of operational improvement, cost reduction and
enhancing the value of the Group through product and process
design and development.
Chief Executive’s Review
The main markets in which the Group operates remained
challenging throughout 2003.Accordingly, programmes
aimed at operational improvement, cost and working
capital reduction and capital expenditure control were
aggressively pursued.
Graham Menzies Chief Executive 4
2003 was a second year of market turmoil following the events 
of 11September 2001.The year was ﬁlled with schedule changes,
volume reductions and increased pricing pressure.This necessitated
capacity adjustments and an escalation in the implementation of
lean principles.
T owards the end of the year there were tentative signs of stabilisation
in the commercial aircraft market, as airlines began to improve
profitability and ordering activity on long-term programmes 
trended higher. Senior Aerospace made large strides on several 
new programmes in 2003, including the A380 and Joint Strike 
Fighter (“JSF”), with early development production commencing.
Senior Aerospace Metal Bellows in Boston, Massachusetts,
specialises in edge-welded bellows for a variety of applications 
in the commercial and military aerospace, space, medical,
semi-conductor and industrial markets.The company performed
satisfactorily in 2003, despite sales declining as the semi-conductor
and space applications failed to reach anticipated levels. Several
aggressive cost-cutting measures were taken.The company is well
positioned to improve performance in 2004.
Senior Aerospace Ketema in San Diego, California, enjoyed a
signiﬁcant performance improvement in 2003, albeit from a relatively
low base. Ketema manufactures complex engine fabrications
primarily for the military, regional and single aisle commercial
markets.The company was restructured in 2002 and, as a result 
of overhead cost reductions, factory improvements and increased
efficiencies, has become a more profitable and cash generative
company.The company has several recently won programmes 
under development including content on the JSF for both Pratt 
and Whitney, and Rolls-Royce.
Senior Aerospace Jet Products in San Diego, California, reported 
lower profits in 2003 on sales that, as expected, fell slightly 
from the prior year.Working capital and on-time delivery
improvements were made.The company is well positioned 
to resume its profitable growth during 2004 as work in the
military sector increases.
Senior Aerospace SSP in Los Angeles, California, designs and 
fabricates high-pressure ducting systems.Whilst factory productivity
declined in 2003, order intake was strong.The company is currently
streamlining its manufacturing processes through the introduction 
of cellular manufacturing and improving product ﬂows as a result of
its building modernisation. A strong, diverse orderbook, heavy focus
on operational improvements, and an industry-leading engineering
team, leave SSP well positioned for the future.
Senior Aerospace BWT, in the UK, manufactures lightweight 
flexible composite ducting for airframe manufacturers. 2003 was 
a year of signiﬁcant new product introduction, with work increasing
on the Airbus A380 cockpit ducting, Embraer ERJ170/190 ﬂexible
ducting, and several other programmes.With the high engineering
activity, and the Group’s policy of expensing such costs as incurred,
proﬁtability was well below historic levels. Performance is expected
to recover as engineering ends and the parts go into production.
Senior Aerospace Composites in Wichita, Kansas, produces rigid
composite ducting that is often combined with components from
other Senior facilities to form lightweight ducting sub-systems.
Composites, which entered the system design and test environment
for the ﬁrst time in 2003, is playing a major role in the fabrication 
of the A380 system being delivered to Airbus by BWT.
Senior Aerospace Bird Bellows, in the UK, increased its business with
Airbus as a result of winning the contract to design and manufacture
gimbals for the A380 wing ducting systems. Bird had a solid year 
in terms of sales, operating proﬁt and cash ﬂow. Its business base,
increasingly focused on aerospace, continues to grow.The company 
is in the process of implementing lean techniques throughout the
factory to meet the continuing challenges of its customers.
Senior Aerospace Bosman, in Holland, saw its traditional aerospace
repair business reverted back to the airlines. Bosman began
outsourcing parts to low-cost countries and developing new
technologies for use in high-pressure ducting systems.This, combined
with the ability to engineer high technology metal fabrications,
should enable Bosman to enter new markets in the future.
Senior Aerospace Ermeto, in France, beneﬁted from the operational
efﬁciencies of a ﬁrst full year of production in its new premises but
suffered from reductions in the Euroﬁghter build rate.The company
is seeking additional business to ﬁt its existing capabilities.
Senior Aerospace Calorstat, in France, performed poorly and
underwent a management change mid-year.The new leadership
substantially reorganised the business, successfully introducing 
new Airbus A380 parts in the process. Operational improvements
give the business a brighter future.
Overall, 2003 was a challenging year for the Aerospace Division.
All companies aggressively pursued process improvements and the
operating margins before goodwill amortisation increased from 4.6%
to 5.1% despite falling sales.The strengthened management teams
and continuous improvement through lean principles will help Senior
Aerospace achieve its future goals.
Aerospace
Geographic turnover
*
67% North America
10% UK
20% Rest of Europe
3% Rest of World
*by destination 5 Automotive
Geographic turnover
*
44% North America
7% UK
41% Rest of Europe
8% Rest of World
*by destination
Senior Automotive manufactures a variety of products primarily 
for customers in North America and Europe. It specialises in the
manufacture of thin-walled stainless steel tubing, flexible metal
bellows, high-pressure diesel fuel lines, and aluminium tubing for 
air conditioning and heating systems.
Production volumes in North America declined 3% in 2003 and 
the Division’s major customers at the “Big 3” continued to lose
market share despite the liberal usage of customer incentives.
The OEM’s heavy reliance upon incentives to support demand
continues to create significant cost reduction pressure upon all
suppliers. European demand softened with the number of new
vehicle registrations declining 2% in 2003. However, Senior’s volumes
in Europe grew because of the greater demand for diesel engines
upon which many of our European products are used.
Senior Automotive Bartlett in Chicago, Illinois, had a difﬁcult year 
as several major programmes came to an end with the deletion of
secondary AIR and EGR systems from General Motors’ engines.
Further programmes will end during 2004.The business reacted
quickly and reduced costs accordingly. Good progress continues 
to be made in developing new products and the ﬁrst order for a
common rail diesel fuel system has been secured, with many more
projects in the development stage.Whilst there is no doubt that
common rail will come to North America for heavy trucks, there 
is an increasing belief that diesels will eventually be introduced in
the passenger car and light truck markets. Such an outcome would
clearly be beneﬁcial to the Group.
At Senior Automotive Blois, France, the strategy to rationalise 
the product line and focus upon high-pressure diesel fuel products
was completed. By the end of the year, 81% of Blois sales were
diesel fuel products. Efforts continue to reduce costs and improve
performance. Operational metrics have improved greatly, but higher
than expected demand for diesel components required the use 
of excess labour with an adverse effect on proﬁtability. Additional
manufacturing capacity is due to be commissioned in the first
quarter of 2004.
Senior Automotive Olomouc, Czech Republic, grew substantially
during the year following the relocation of aluminium tubes and
water tubes from Blois. Several new projects were also successfully
launched and the site moved into proﬁt in the fourth quarter as
volumes increased. Olomouc is a low-cost site and is well positioned
to grow substantially in the coming years.
Senior Berghöfer GmbH, Germany, operated in a difficult
environment. Its main industrial markets, such as solar and heating,
were weak, as was the German economy. However, cost reductions
and a focus upon cost management produced a significant
improvement in operating performance compared to the prior
year.The first nominations for heavy truck components were
secured and good progress was made on other potential
automotive components.
Senior Automotive Sao Paulo, Brazil, had a difficult year, caused 
by high consumer interest rates, as a result of which automotive
demand was disappointingly low. Several large orders for 
industrial expansion joints and spring hangers together with good 
cost management allowed the site to remain profitable. New
automotive projects should lead to growth in the next couple 
of years.
Senior Automotive New Delhi, India, had another solid year.
Although slightly below the prior year, due to a destocking
programme at a major aftermarket customer in the UK, sales
increased to the North American exhaust aftermarket and
domestic industrial metal hose customers.The site is well 
managed and poised for growth across a range of markets 
in the near future.
Senior Automotive Crumlin, South Wales, encountered a difﬁcult
year and, with the completion of the transfer of its ﬂexible exhaust
bellows work to Cape Town, the site is now focused upon the
exhaust ﬂex aftermarket, exhaust gas recycling and turbo oil drain
markets. New product development is a priority with some good
progress being made.
Senior Automotive Cape T own, South Africa, struggled to keep 
up with demand in the ﬁrst quarter mostly due to the late delivery
of raw materials from key suppliers.This resulted in the offloading
of some work to Crumlin and Bartlett. On-time delivery was 
quickly restored once raw materials arrived according to schedule
and additional employees were added. Manufacturing efﬁciencies
improved greatly throughout the year. Given the export nature of
the business, proﬁtability was adversely affected by a strengthened
local currency.The business successfully relocated to a larger facility
at the year-end to provide the additional capacity necessary to meet
the volume growth scheduled for the next few years.
Senior Automotive is known for its innovative engineering solutions
and superior customer service.The ever-increasing demand for 
new technologies to meet future emission laws and the continued
growth of diesel engines, combined with low-cost manufacturing
sites in the Czech Republic, India, Brazil and South Africa, position
the business well for longer-term growth. 6
The Specialised Industrial Division is made up of eight operations,
of which the five industrial hose companies are in the process 
of being sold.The remaining three businesses, Pathway, Senior
Hargreaves and Senior Flexonics Canada, accounted for some 
62% of the Division’s turnover in 2003.
Pathway is a world leader in the manufacture of metal and fabric
expansion joints for the power generation and petrochemical
industries. In 2003 it experienced a slight reduction in turnover,
mainly due to the slowdown in sales of land-based turbines for
power generation. New construction and planned maintenance
work was also sluggish although emergency repair work was much
stronger than expected, helping to maintain operating margins.
Pathway operates from two facilities, one in Texas and one in
Tennessee and, because of the changing nature of the mix of work,
the decision has been taken to close the Tennessee facility during
2004 with all manufacturing being consolidated onto the New
Braunfels,Texas site.The cost is anticipated to be £0.9m in new
capital assets and £0.3m in closure costs.The consolidation will 
lead to improved future proﬁtability.
Senior Hargreaves, a UK market leader in the manufacture 
and installation of air conditioning ducting, experienced reduced
proﬁtability in 2003 as a result of two difﬁcult contracts.T owards the
year-end a number of new contracts, including Wembley Stadium
and Channel Tunnel extension work at St Pancras Station, were 
won and Senior Hargreaves starts 2004 with a healthy orderbook.
Senior Flexonics Canada manufactures and sells bulk and fabricated
metal hose assemblies, slip pack joints, metal expansion joints, and
cryogenic assemblies.Working in conjunction with other Group
companies it offers a wide range of products to the Canadian
market. Sales and proﬁts remained ﬂat year on year, a creditable
performance given the slowing economy.
Senior Flexonics Hose Division operates from facilities in Illinois 
and Texas. In 2003, it increased sales, in a competitive marketplace,
with a consequent improvement in proﬁtability. After a slow start
the semi-conductor market began to improve, with several customers
returning to the market and sales improving through the course 
of the year.The focus on rebuilding the ﬂuoroplastic hose market
and providing customers with a quick turnaround service also
began to produce results.
The three European metal hose operations, a manufacturing site in
the UK and distribution facilities in Holland and France, collectively
reported improved proﬁtability on unchanged turnover, largely as 
a result of the cost reduction measures taken in the previous year.
Further improvements in the performance of these businesses 
will depend, to a large extent, on the strength of the upturn 
in the European economy.
Habia, in Sweden, manufactures ﬂuoroplastic hoses and hose
assemblies, PTFE lined pipe systems and PTFE machined parts.
An improvement in turnover during 2003 resulted in increased,
albeit still modest, levels of proﬁts and cash generation. Project
opportunities are being pursued to improve its performance 
still further.
Two long-standing CEOs, Brian Ward at Senior Hargreaves and
Wim Bogaard at Senior Flexonics B.V., in Holland, are due to retire
in the ﬁrst half of 2004 and the Group wishes them both the very
best for a long and happy retirement. Internal candidates have been
promoted to ﬁll their positions.
Specialised Industrial
Geographic turnover
*
41% North America
37% UK
15% Rest of Europe
7% Rest of World
*by destination
