 Specialist Electronics
The past year has seen changes to the Senior Management Team in the
Specialist Electronics Division.  
Damian Rowbotham, previously Finance Director for ComfortDelGro’s UK &
Ireland businesses, joined us in April 2012 as the Managing Director of Audiotel
International. In addition, Barney Hubble who was critical to the success of the
recent MOD contract, was appointed to the board as Business Development
Director during the year.  
Julie Brown (Resources Director) retired after 17 years dedicated service to
Audiotel and in recent months Debbie Braybrook (Finance Director) has moved
on to pastures new as part of a major re‐organisation of the team.  
We now have a stronger, more broadly experienced and focussed sales team
moving forward, which under the direction of the new Senior Management
Team, will bring the recently launched products to the global marketplace in
the current year.
During the MOD contract we operated from two separate premises in Corby,
but have recently merged all our operations in one centre.  This provides a
fully modern, well equipped factory and office complex ready to take on the
new challenges that will be presented in the years to come.
The end of the MOD contract has seen serious downsizing of the production
team and I would like to take the opportunity to thank all those staff who were
employed with us for their dedicated service during the last two years.
Property Information Services
The PSG team based in Barnsley, South Yorkshire, have performed well under
the supervision of Andrea Glover (Managing Director) in a very challenging
marketplace.
The PSG Franchisee Network continues to promote and market a
comprehensive selection of legal reports and services under the online PSG
Connect banner.  The unique combination of a truly national supplier with a
‘local’ service is the envy of its competitors.  
Packaging Solutions
The small Moore & Buckle team based in St Helens have remained stable and
continue to perform profitably in a niche marketplace.
Bernie Connor, Chief Executive                                                           23 July 2013
Security Research Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 4
CEO’s Update
£29.4m
Consolidated
group revenue
£6.6m
Operating profit
before exceptional
items
52.2%
Gross Margin
229432 Security Research AR pp01-pp07  23/07/2013  15:48  Page 4
