 4 Senior plc
During another difficult year with most 
of our markets remaining very challenging,
the Group has reduced its debt and
continued to work on operational
improvements in all respects.
The improvement strategy, adopted in 2000 and pursued during 2001,
continued unabated during 2002. We worked on improving operational
performance in all respects and irrespective of the generally lower level
of customer demand. We kept our central costs low and delivered lower
costs and reduced working capital in the subsidiaries. We continued
to effect disposals amongst the European industrial businesses and most
importantly, we again reduced the Group net debt which ended the year
at £87.4m, a reduction of 29% in the year and a reduction of nearly
50% from when the debt reduction programme started in May 2000.
Gross capital expenditure in the year was reduced to 74% of
depreciation. However, necessary and justifiable investment was
maintained. Indeed, two new factories were opened in the year to
relocate Senior Aerospace BWT and Senior Aerospace Ermeto into
modern efﬁcient factories.
During the course of the year, manufacturing recessionary inﬂuences
became more obvious in most of the developed, industrialised world.
Economic conditions in Germany were particularly weak throughout
2002 with those in the rest of continental Europe and the USA
weakening during the period. Canada and, to a lesser extent, 
the UK were relatively buoyant.
The global airline industry continued to react adversely to the
economic slowdown and the threat of international terrorism. 
Whilst there was some recovery in traffic volumes during 2002, 
airline profitability, particularly in the USA, remains very poor. 
As a consequence, the major suppliers to the airlines – the aircraft 
and engine builders who are our customers – continued to adjust 
their production schedules downwards throughout 2002. Hopefully
2003 will see more settled levels of demand.
Senior Automotive encountered mixed market conditions. In Europe,
the overall demand for vehicles fell by about 3% but the proportion
of diesel engine vehicles continued to climb. In the USA, demand
remained higher than we had originally expected primarily because 
of dealer incentives and cheap financing. As a result vehicle sales
remained at healthy levels (16.8m cars and light trucks) and, importantly,
dealer stocks of vehicles were at the same level in December 2002 
as they were in December 2001 – 59 days. Destocking in 2003 should
not, therefore, be a signiﬁcant issue although demand levels are
expected to show declines over 2002.
In the industrial markets in which we participate, UK construction
was satisfactory, semi-conductor equipment continued to be
severely depressed, oil and gas was slightly better than expected,
power generation started well but ﬁnished weaker and process plant
(e.g. chemicals and steel) remained tough.
Prospects
We enter 2003 with many business opportunities. In aerospace, the
joint strike ﬁghter programme (JSF) at Lockheed Martin is gathering
momentum with many of our operations being involved, as they are
with the new large Airbus A380. In automotive, volume increases
are being seen in our South Africa facility and, in the longer term,
diesel engine performance is beginning to attract more interest 
in the USA, the common rail system having transformed the diesel
engine’s fortunes in Europe. 
Throughout the operations, we continue to seek operational performance
and management improvements in all areas – lean production, more
effective design and rigorous ﬁnancial routines. Whilst we plan to
continue our existing policies and strategies throughout 2003, now
the debt level is much lower, we can look forward to being able to
review these in the medium term in order to take better advantage 
of the economic upturn when it comes.
Our employees have made valuable contributions during another period
of challenge and change and, as an acknowledgement of the part 
they have played, the Annual Report features a small selection of the
men and women of our organisation, in addition to the hardware
traditionally highlighted.
Chief Executive’s Review Annual Report & Accounts 2002 5
Aerospace
Senior Aerospace had to adjust capacity
almost monthly throughout 2002 as the
industry reduced demand. We squeezed 
out cost and working capital and ended 
the year with an improving performance. 
Demand continued to slow during the year and all operations
experienced rescheduling by customers resulting, almost without
exception,in lower volumes. Consequently, many capacity 
adjustments needed to be made. The operations responded 
well to these circumstances.
Metal Bellows, which specialises in edge-welded bellows applications,
primarily for inﬁnite-life low-maintenance pumps, accumulators and
reservoirs, performed exceptionally well despite the semi-conductor
industry failing to recover. They were helped by an increase in
defence and military spending. During the year, medical application
volumes increased, installation of a new business computer system
began and design engineering proposals were made for substantial
work on JSF. 
In San Diego, California, Senior Aerospace has two machine shops
making structural parts for civil and military jet engines as well as
the engine mountings into the nacelles on the aeroplanes. At Ketema,
the two main customers both adjusted schedules downwards and the
company suffered considerable disruption as a result. By the last quarter
of the year, however, a degree of stability had returned. At Jet Products,
volumes came down signiﬁcantly, primarily as a result of the Boeing
737 build-rate being halved. As a result of the need to reduce capacity,
its small feeder factory was closed and the operations moved into 
the main facility. Towards the end of the year, the managements 
of Ketema and Jet Products were amalgamated, not only as a cost
reduction measure, but also to instil the very highest standards of
manufacturing excellence necessary to profitably meet the demands
of this sector of the market. These two operations enter 2003 in 
good operational shape and with demand slightly ahead of plan.
In France, Ermeto moved out of ﬁve old buildings into one new modern
facility. The prospects for the company continue to be encouraging
and it was one of the few operations to grow its sales during the
year. At Calorstat, an unsatisfactory loss in 2001 was replaced by 
a breakeven trading result in 2002 as a result of the cost reduction
measures taken. 2003 has an improved outlook as new business from
Airbus is in production.
Bosman, in Holland, had an eventful year with the rebuilding of the
main assembly hall (following the roof collapse in 2001), reductions
in customer schedules and a major reduction in its airline repair
business. To counter this the company successfully developed
aftermarket business for the industrial gas turbine sector. The company
ended the year with an encouraging order book for 2003.
Senior Aerospace has two composite ducting businesses, BWT in the
UK and Composites in the USA. BWT suffered a substantial schedule
downturn from its main customer, Bombardier, which coincided with
BWT moving into a new facility. Together with Composites, BWT is
working on the design and development of the cockpit ducting system
for the A380, the costs of which are being expensed as incurred. It is
expected that this work will be ﬁnished early in 2003. As a result of
the relationship on this programme, additional work with Airbus may
be secured. Composites had a solid order book throughout 2002 and
despite a small reduction in sales over 2001, increased its profit. 
The key to this was a full year deployment of lean manufacturing
techniques. However, their biggest customer, Cessna, recently 
reduced its schedules for 2003.
At Bird Bellows, in the UK, a modest reduction in sales for the year
was accompanied by a similarly modest reduction in profitability. 
This company is the sole supplier to Airbus for the flexible wing 
duct joints and has been nominated for the A380 programme.
At SSP, in Los Angeles, schedules strengthened helped by the ramp
up of the Rolls-Royce Trent 500 programme and the higher levels 
of spending on military programmes by the US Government. The
financial performance of the company improved and is expected to
improve further in 2003. This company is an industry leader in high
temperature ducting system design. Modernisation of the existing
leasehold facility is anticipated to begin during 2003.
Throughout Senior Aerospace, improvements in on-time delivery and
inventory turns have been delivered as a result of the strategy to
improve operational effectiveness. Further improvements are expected.
Capital expenditure for the Division is likely to be signiﬁcantly less
than depreciation in 2003 because, with the industry in the doldrums,
the Division needs little additional capacity. However, few programmes
in the industry have been cancelled and the sales and engineering
staff have remained busy. The principal exception to this was Fairchild
Dornier’s receivership, when the FD728 development was halted and
we had to write off £0.3m. Due to our continued engineering activity
we do not expect to lose market share whilst the industry awaits an
upturn. Instead, we expect to win additional future programmes to allow
us to grow again when conﬁdence returns to the aerospace industry.
1 Graham Menzies with Sylvio Deveau,
Dino Pettiford and Peter Fontecchio
who have all completed 40 years’
service with Senior Aerospace
Metal Bellows.
2 John Williams and Tony Shannon
at Senior Aerospace Jet Products.
3 The management team of Senior
Aerospace Ermeto outside their
new factory.
4 Greg Frye presents Cessna’s
recognition award to Wade Bailey
at Senior Aerospace Composites.
1
3
2
4 6 Senior plc
Automotive
1 Jizelle Lawrence pictured at 
Senior Automotive Cape Town.
2 John Schmitz, Gary Castello and
Julian Hernandez are members 
of the design team at Senior
Automotive Bartlett.
3 The management team at Senior
Automotive New Delhi.
4 Some of the team at Senior
Automotive Kassel.
Senior Automotive has continued throughout
2002 to work on product development 
both in the USA and in Europe, particularly 
in diesel engine applications where use
worldwide continues to grow. 
Senior Automotive operates in two main markets – North America and
Europe. Demand in the USA was slightly higher than expected during
2002 and continued to defy the slowing economy throughout the year.
Incentives offered by the vehicle manufacturers substantially helped
to maintain demand and 2002 ended with modest stocks. In Europe,
2002 saw a 3% fall in overall demand and 2003 is anticipated 
to be flat at best. Overall we are cautious about economic 
conditions for 2003.
Helped by better than expected demand, Senior Automotive Bartlett,
located near Chicago, had a good year with proﬁt and cash ﬂow ahead
of plan. Development work on a number of new products continued
with a variety of customers. In particular, prototype work has begun
on components for common rail diesel engines for vehicles destined
for the North American market. This signiﬁcant development could
lead to substantial new business in the future. However, the ﬂexible
exhaust connectors for one programme that only commenced shipment
in early 2002 has now been removed from the vehicles. This will
make the operation’s performance difficult to repeat in 2003. 
At Senior Automotive Blois, in France, performance improved in 2002
over 2001 but not yet to a satisfactory level. Management strengthening
and ongoing product rationalisation should enable the business to
make further progress in 2003. The demand for common rail diesel
engine fuel system components is strong and development work on
complete systems continues. We have a technical leadership inherent
in this operation which is not yet reﬂected in its performance.
2002 was the ﬁrst full year of production at the new greenﬁeld site
in Olomouc in the Czech Republic. Disappointingly, the plant did not
come into proﬁt as planned in 2002 but it should do in 2003 when
further products are transferred from Blois and a new third party
programme launches mid-way through the year.
Senior Automotive Kassel traded in very weak markets – all current
production goes to the industrial sector, primarily the German
chemical and solar heating industries – and the operations recorded
an unsatisfactory result. Cost reduction measures are being taken.
Progress is being made, however, in developing German automotive
component business for the future with several promising development
programmes underway for heavy truck and fuel control applications,
using the Group’s hose and bellows technologies.
In Brazil, at Senior Automotive Sao Paulo, 2002 turned out to be 
a better year than 2001, thanks to the cost reduction measures 
taken in 2001 and a more stable economy. The second half of 2002
was particularly strong as a result of some large industrial projects
being completed, shipped and invoiced.
Senior Automotive New Delhi made good progress in 2002 and
produced another strong performance. The company has continued 
to win new work for the Indian car assembly market whilst
maintaining its supply of aftermarket components to Asia, 
Europe and the USA.
At Senior Automotive Crumlin, 2002 was the second year of change
with the product mix moving away from exhaust ﬂexible connectors
and more towards exhaust gas control mechanisms. Like Bartlett, 
new product development is a priority.
In South Africa, Senior Automotive Cape Town grew its sales by 48%
as a result of the new product lines introduced in 2001 and 2002.
Proﬁtability also increased but was hampered by temporary local raw
material supply problems. Fortunately not all products specify locally
sourced stainless steel. In 2003 it is planned that a new and much
larger factory will be commissioned, close to the existing facility, 
to cope with substantial new business, particularly from Peugeot. 
We expect to invest around £1.5m in this business during 2003.
Whilst the automotive industry continues to build a similar number of
vehicles, the desire of the car assemblers for lower costs is relentless.
Excellent on-time delivery and quality standards are the norm with
technical expertise and price the differentiators. Senior Automotive,
with its experienced engineering resource, dedication to process and
product development and its access to lower cost manufacturing
sites in South Africa, India, the Czech Republic and Brazil, is well
placed to face these challenges.
1
3
2
4 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 7
Specialised Industrial
Specialised Industrial improved its profit
and cash ﬂow in markets that were generally
unrewarding. Pathway, Canada and Hargreaves
contributed well.
Market conditions were mixed in this sector of our business. Europe
was quite weak, particularly in Germany, whilst Canada enjoyed strong
conditions. In the USA markets weakened as the year progressed.
The business in Canada had a strong year under new leadership and
sales, proﬁt and cash ﬂow all improved during 2002. The decision was
taken to close a small service factory to further improve performance.
The oil and gas markets were healthy and the Canadian steel mills, 
an important market sector, operated in better market conditions than
were enjoyed by steel companies in most other parts of the world.
The hose business in Romeoville, Illinois, improved its performance
but remained a modest contributor as the semi-conductor market
failed to recover.
Pathway, with operations in New Braunfels, Texas, and Oakridge,
Tennessee, had another good year despite the downturn in the US
power generation original equipment market. The company is the
world leader in the design and manufacture of large expansion joints
for process plant applications and has the physical capacity to build
the largest sizes speciﬁed. 2003 is likely to see slightly weaker markets. 
In Sweden, our Teﬂon hose business, Habia, generated a decent cash
ﬂow in subdued market conditions that led to lower sales and proﬁts.
Turnover of the three European metal hose operations, in the UK, Holland
and France, reduced a little in aggregate in subdued market conditions.
Prospects appear slightly better for 2003 primarily because of the 
re-equipping of the UK gas distribution infrastructure, a strengthening
position in the seagoing tanker discharge market for composite hose
in Holland and due to lower costs and a rising order book in France.
The four businesses that comprised our European expansion joint
operations, based in the UK, Denmark, Poland and the Czech Republic,
were sold during 2002. We wish everyone employed in these businesses
well for the future. 
At Senior Hargreaves, 2002 started with a good quality order book 
and finished with year on year improvement in sales, profits and 
cash ﬂow. This business is the UK market leader in the manufacture
and installation of air conditioning ducting. Looking forward the
commercial construction industry is slowing, whilst medium term
opportunities are returning in nuclear decommissioning, public
service and infrastructure projects.
Overall, the Division improved its quality of earnings during 2002.
Sales were down very marginally, but the return on sales (before
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items) increased from 3.6% 
to 4.2% with cash inﬂow well ahead of operating proﬁt and 12%
higher than in 2001. This represented a valuable contribution 
to the Group’s earnings and debt reduction strategy.
Graham Menzies Chief Executive
1 Andrew Bridgewater producing gas
meter connections at United Flexible.
2 Makram Ebeid is a machine design
engineer at Romeoville.
3 Ken May is a member of the
Pathway production team.
4 Brian Ward (46 years’ service),
William Bateson (39 years), 
Tony Burke (49 years) and 
Kevin White (31 years) 
at Senior Hargreaves.
1
3
2
4
