 Senior plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 3
Senior is a supplier of engineered products
to OEM customers.The demands upon its
factories are directly linked to the market
conditions its customers are experiencing as
well as the relative success of their products
in their chosen market sectors. Over the
past two years, Senior has significantly
increased its resources in the development
of new products and processes in order 
to increase sales to the OEM customers
and, irrespective of the market conditions,
grow the top line sales of the Group.These
efforts are beginning to bear fruit.
In Aerospace, the civil aircraft sector
continues to recover. Boeing is forecast 
to build 314 planes in 2005 compared 
to 285 in 2004. At Airbus, the expectation 
is for deliveries of 350 aircraft in 2005,
up from 320 in 2004. Combined, this 10%
increase in high value products – aircraft 
and engines – demonstrates the ongoing
recovery across the industry.The regional 
jet builders (and their engine suppliers) 
are not as ambitious because most of their
main customers, the big North American
hub operators, remain in ﬁnancial difﬁculty.
Senior’s Aerospace Division has around 29%
of its turnover in the defence and military
sector where demand has been strong,
particularly for replacement parts for aircraft
serving in active military regions around the
world.The Division also contains elements
of medical and semi-conductor business,
both of which saw solid demand in 2004.
Across the Aerospace Division, the total
anticipated shipset value for each Airbus
A380 aircraft has grown to about £190k.
The substantial development costs on the
programme are coming to an end and 
it is anticipated that more than ten shipsets
will be delivered in 2005 as production
commences.The maiden flight of the 
A380 is targeted for the first half of 2005.
The shipset value on the Lockheed Martin
Joint Strike Fighter has also increased 
(now approximately £300k).Whilst 
volume production is still some years 
off, revenue is beginning to be generated
with test, prototype and pre-production
parts now in manufacture. Being incremental 
to current production, both these
programmes will add future sales and 
value to the Division.
Other potential incremental programmes 
of note include the Eurofighter, which 
has now recommenced assembly, the 
Boeing 787 and Airbus 350 aircraft, for
which tenders are now being sought,
and the A400M, a new European military
transport aircraft.
Senior’s Automotive Division experienced 
a range of challenges and opportunities
during 2004.The marketplaces in North
America and Europe are mature and saw
little growth in the period. In the USA,
however, Asian car companies continued 
to increase share at the expense of the 
“Big 3”, whose market share declined from
60.2% in 2003 to 58.7% in 2004.Their
initiatives to retain market share, and stem
the decline, led to continued pressure on
the Division’s product pricing.The situation
was exacerbated by the steep increase in
the price of many raw materials, including
the stainless steels used in abundance by
Senior. During the year, the management
time absorbed in dealing with these pricing
issues was considerable.
The Group’s automotive operation in the
USA continued to reduce sales as product
programmes came to an end as expected
and, together with the raw material issues,
it was a challenge to ensure the
momentum required in new product
development was maintained. Pleasingly,
these efforts were rewarded during 2004,
with the booking of several new product
programmes, mainly associated with
commercial diesel engine production.
In Europe, all commercial vehicles and about
50% of passenger cars use diesel engines,
whereas in North America the number 
of diesel engines produced is much lower
because they are rarely installed in passenger
vehicles. New US legislation means that 
by 2007 all US diesel engines must conform
to much tougher emission standards and,
to achieve this, all manufacturers of diesel
engines are converting to what is known 
as “common rail” technology .This technology
is already widely used by the European
manufacturers to increase power output,
reduce noise and vibration, improve fuel
consumption and meet the more stringent
emissions legislation.
Over the past three years, the product
development efforts of Senior Automotive
have been increasingly focused on diesel
engines both in Europe and the USA and
several new incremental programmes were
won during 2004. It is planned that the
manufacturing capacity needed to put these
new products into production will increase
overall Group capital expenditure to nearly
twice depreciation in 2005.
The planned industrial disposal programme
was completed in 2004 with the Industrial
Division reducing from eight operations 
to three, following the sale of the Division’s
ﬁve industrial hose businesses.The market
conditions experienced by the remaining
three proved to be mixed. Canada’s economy
continued strongly, which helped, but demand
from oil and gas, power generation and UK
construction were well below expectation.
A substantial cost reduction programme was
initiated to improve the future performance
of the Division, the benefits of which 
are expected to be seen in 2005 assisted 
by some degree of market recovery.
Chief Executive’s Review
“The Group remains committed to the strategy of operational
improvement, cost reduction and value enhancement through
product and process design and development. Operational
excellence, impeccable customer service and proﬁtable pricing
continue to be core Group objectives.”
