 2013 PERFORMANCE
Senior delivered another strong operating 
performance during 2013, with adjusted profit 
before tax increasing by 8% to £98.1m, largely 
as a result of organic revenue growth in large 
commercial aerospace and the inclusion of 
GAMFG Precision (“GA”), a precision-machining 
business acquired towards the end of 2012. 
Group cash generation also remained strong, 
with free cash flow of £63.8m being 11% 
ahead of the prior year. Accordingly, the Board 
is proposing a final dividend of 3.60 pence per 
share. This would bring total dividends, paid and 
proposed, for 2013 to 5.12 pence per share, an 
increase of 10% over 2012 and slightly ahead 
of the increase in adjusted earnings per share, 
reflecting the Group’s encouraging prospects 
and healthy dividend cover.
These best ever results, achieved against an 
often challenging economic backdrop, reflect 
Senior’s strong niche market positions, its 
focus on tough-to-make, highly engineered 
products and the continued emphasis on 
serving its customers by delivering excellent 
operational performance where on-time 
delivery, quality and value are all key measures. 
In this regard, one of the privileges of being the 
Chairman of Senior is being able to undertake 
visits to the individual operating companies, 
meeting the Group’s enthusiastic and 
dedicated employees and witnessing, 
first-hand, the ever improving standard of 
the factories and the embedded culture of 
continuous improvement across the Group.
ACQUISITIONS
As well as growing organically, Senior also 
seeks to increase shareholder value through 
the acquisition of capabilities adjacent to its 
existing portfolio and two UK-based businesses 
were acquired during 2013. Atlas Composites 
(“Atlas”), a developer of structural composite 
solutions for the Formula 1 and aerospace 
markets, was acquired for £2.4m in February 
and Thermal Engineering (“Thermal”) joined 
the Group at the end of November for £28.3m. 
Thermal specialises in manufacturing hot- and 
cold-formed components, complex fabricated 
assemblies and thermal insulation heat shields 
and systems for the aerospace market. Both 
businesses have made encouraging starts 
with Senior and I would like to extend a warm 
welcome to their employees.
SUSTAINABILITY
Employees, customers, suppliers and investors 
want to work with businesses that operate 
safely, ethically, fairly and in a way that 
minimises environmental impact. Accordingly, 
Senior places its values and corporate 
responsibility programmes at the heart of 
how it runs its businesses and it is, therefore, 
pleasing to report continued success at 
reducing employee injury rates, water usage 
and carbon emissions during 2013.
CHANGES TO THE BOARD
2013 saw a number of changes to the Board. 
In September, Derek Harding was appointed as 
Group Finance Director, succeeding Simon 
Nicholls who had left at the end of April after five 
years with the Group to take up a similar position 
at Cobham plc. Derek, a Chartered Accountant, 
joined Senior from Wolseley plc, where he 
had worked for 11 years in a broad range of 
head office and operating company financial 
roles and he brings extensive experience 
and a fresh perspective to the Group.
As part of Board succession planning, two of 
the Group’s non-executive Directors, David 
Best and Ian Much, who would have served for 
seven and eight years respectively by the end 
of 2013, indicated early in the year their desire 
to step down from the Board around the end 
of 2013. In order to ensure a smooth handover, 
two new non-executive Directors, Celia Baxter 
and Giles Kerr, were recruited and joined the 
Board at the beginning of September. Giles, 
who will take over as Chair of the Audit 
Committee in April 2014 when David Best 
steps down from the Board, is currently the 
Director of Finance at Oxford University and 
was previously Group Finance Director of 
Amersham plc. Celia, the Director of Group 
HR of Bunzl plc, became the Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee when Ian Much 
left the Group in December 2013. 
Senior has made significant progress in recent 
years and I would like to extend the Board’s 
thanks to Ian, David and Simon for their strong 
contribution during this time. 
EMPLOYEES
Senior’s strong results are a reflection of the 
quality of people across the Group and, on behalf 
of the Board, I would like to thank all the Group’s 
employees for their significant contribution to 
Senior’s success over the past year.
OUTLOOK
The Group continues to operate in its five 
strategic market sectors: three in Aerospace 
(Fluid Conveyance Systems, Gas Turbine 
Engines and Structures) and two in Flexonics 
(Land Vehicle Emission Control and Industrial 
Process Control), with each strategic market 
sector offering healthy and deliverable growth 
opportunities. The Group’s strategy has proven 
to be successful over recent years and, whilst 
evolving as the Group gets larger and market 
conditions change, it continues to provide 
a solid foundation for the Group’s future 
growth aspirations.
The year has started satisfactorily and, with the 
large commercial aerospace market remaining 
strong and some early signs of an economic 
recovery taking place, progress is expected to 
be made across the Group’s operations during 
2014. However, volatile foreign exchange 
movements add more uncertainty to the 
reported Group outcome for the year. Looking 
further ahead, a healthy number of new 
aerospace programmes going into production, 
together with further economic recovery and 
expected market share gains in both the 
Aerospace and Flexonics Divisions, mean 
the outlook for Senior remains encouraging.
CHARLES BERRY
Chairman
Another ye Ar  
of progress.  
senior delivered 
A strong oper Ating 
perform Ance 
during 2013.
1 Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 www.seniorplc.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
