 I am pleased to report on a strong performance across  
the Group. We have delivered record revenues and  
a near twenty per cent increase in adjusted operating  
profit. At the same time we continued our investment  
in expanding our customer offering, both organically  
and through acquisition. 
Chairman’s Statement
Over the last three years we have 
transformed Sepura from being solely  
a TETRA devices supplier to a geographically 
and technologically diverse critical 
communications solution supplier.  
Our ability to now offer a one-stop  
solution combining devices, networks  
and applications has proved compelling 
to customers, increasing dramatically the 
size of our addressable market. In the last 
year we have recorded significant solution 
sales across a range of new customers and 
countries, including Canada, Luxembourg, 
Greece and Lebanon.
We have continued to build our US and 
Canadian sales organisation and added a 
number of new distributors. North America 
is the world’s largest Professional Mobile 
Radio (“PMR”) market, and we are confident 
that we can build on our early successes 
here and make it a significant market  
for the Group.
We have launched to market our portfolio  
of DMR products. DMR is a radio standard 
that is analogous and complementary 
to TETRA, mainly serving commercial 
customers, and which is forecast to be  
the fastest growing segment within PMR 
over the coming years. While we have 
modest expectations for DMR in its first 
year, we believe it can have a significant 
incremental impact on our revenues and 
earnings in the medium term.
The compelling solution we offer  
our customers has created a robust  
and diverse business that is set to increase 
earnings and cash generation over the 
coming years. We closed the year with  
a strong balance sheet, net cash and  
record order book. We look to the future 
with growing confidence, reflected in an  
increase in the dividend from 1.68p to 2.00p.
I would like once again to thank all  
of our employees for their outstanding 
contribution, and welcome new colleagues 
joining from Portalify and Fylde.
John Hughes CBE
Chairman
9 June 2014
Revenues
+19%
Addressable market
$2.5b
Record revenues and 19% increase  
in adjusted operating profit despite  
FX headwinds
Addressable market increased from  
$0.5 billion to $2.5 billion
Strategic Report
02 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
