 Chief Executive’s Statement
We have delivered double-digit earnings growth for  
a third consecutive year, increasing adjusted operating 
profits by 19% to €12.5 million. We have achieved this 
through our ongoing focus on sales growth and strong 
operational performance in our core markets. 
At the same time we are executing  
on our strategic goal of expanding  
the Group’s offering through continued 
new product delivery, and the addition 
of incremental business lines through 
acquisition, such that we have expanded  
the size of our addressable market from  
$0.5 billion to approximately $2.5 billion.
I am pleased to report that we are seeing 
strong performance in our core TETRA 
devices markets. In total we shipped  
188,000 TETRA devices in FY14 compared  
to 154,000 in FY13. This growth was driven 
by Germany but double digit growth in the 
UK, Norway and Australia also contributed.
Germany produced another record year  
with 65,000 radios shipped, whilst we  
grew the backlog of contracted radios,  
to approximately 72,500, up from 30,000  
at the end of September. Key wins in Greece, 
Luxembourg, Austria and Canada ensured 
that the list of countries that delivered over 
€1m of revenues during the year grew to  
22, up from 14 last year. Our continued focus  
on product leadership and ensuring product 
innovation directly meets our customers’ 
demands has been a significant factor in  
this growth. Combined with our other  
TETRA markets we now have an installed 
base of over 1.2 million radios which will 
yield a growing stream of repeat business, 
via refresh and accessory sales, over the next 
few years.
 
Our infrastructure business has made 
outstanding progress since its acquisition 
last year and won its first public safety 
contracts in new markets including  
Greece and Lebanon. It also won its first 
contract in North America, for the initial 
phase of Toronto Transit Commission’s new 
network, which is currently being deployed, 
along with other significant commercial 
sector contracts in Luxembourg, Germany 
and Malaysia. After the initial contract value, 
Systems contracts yield a base of recurring 
revenues throughout the 10-15 year life 
of these networks. Portalify, the software 
developer acquired in July, also generates 
recurring annual revenues from its  
data applications, which we are well 
advanced on integrating fully into our  
solutions offering.
Investment in our DMR portfolio  
continued during FY14 with the initial  
range of products launched towards  
the end of the year. The product range 
will continue to be expanded this year 
and has been further augmented by the 
recent acquisition of Fylde, whose enabling 
technology provides customers with  
a simple, low-risk and cost-effective 
migration from analogue to digital networks.  
We anticipate an acceleration in the 
migration from analogue to digital  
by smaller, commercial users, and as  
a result we expect DMR to contribute 
materially to revenues in FY15 and both 
revenue and earnings in FY16.
We have now established a local sales  
team in North America to promote TETRA 
and DMR and we are confident that we  
can build on our early successes, such as  
Toronto Transit Commission, and make North 
America a significant market for the Group.
When you combine these growth 
opportunities with the robustness  
of our more established markets this  
gives us confidence in our outlook for  
the two years ending March 2016.  
We expect to deliver 10% revenue growth 
over the next two years with adjusted EPS 
growth of 15% and 25% respectively.
Gordon Watling
Chief Executive
9 June 2014
Radios delivered 
>188,000
We shipped a total of over 188,000 TETRA 
devices in 2014 (2013: 154,000)
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 03
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
