 04 Sepura plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
This year the global financial crisis has produced 
a challenging economic environment for both
customers and suppliers. Although the TETRA market
has not been immune to the global economic
slowdown in the short term, it has been resilient and
we remain confident in the growth prospects over
the medium to long term.
Against this backdrop, Sepura has taken decisive
steps towards achieving its strategic objective of
being the number one TETRA radio supplier.
We have achieved early success in Germany 
which is forecast to become the largest TETRA
market in the world. We have won five of the first
six tenders to be awarded including two of the 
top Länder by potential volumes. This outstanding
performance demonstrates the competitiveness 
of the STP8000 radio and the effectiveness 
of our local distribution partner.
We are already planning our approach for the 
next wave of significant markets.
The UK remains the largest and most mature TETRA
market in both the world and in Sepura’s portfolio.
Here the replacement cycle has begun and Sepura
has so far retained 19 out of 20 customers who
have ordered replacement radios.
Gordon Watling, our new Chief Executive Officer,
has taken the first steps to improve operating
efficiencies across the business. He has restructured
operations to provide resources for increased
investment in sales and marketing and new product
introduction. This has created a solid and cost
effective platform to support future growth.
Gordon has also led the drive to optimise
manufacturing costs and diversify supply. The
transfer of our main European manufacturing base
from Siemens to MELECS has delivered significant
cost reductions. In China, our manufacturing partner,
TCB, is increasing its capacity and producing a
wider range of our products. These developments
will deliver a robust and cost-effective supply chain
to better serve our growing customer base.
During the past year Sepura has demonstrated 
its resilience in the face of the challenging market
conditions. We have a strong balance sheet, 
a focused team and dedicated partners.
The outlook is never very clear this early in the
financial year. However, in recent weeks we have
seen indications that some orders may slip into the
next financial year. This, allied with the tough global
economic conditions, dictates that we take a
cautious view and at this stage we expect limited
revenue growth this year. The Group is engaged in
a number of opportunities which could mitigate the
potential slippage and we will report on these as
the year progresses. We remain confident in the
strength of the Group and in the medium to long
term outlook for the business.
Philip Nolan, Chairman
1 June 2009
Chairman’s Statement
“During the past year Sepura has 
demonstrated its resilience in the face 
of challenging market conditions. ”
Philip Nolan, Chairman
Although not immune to the
global financial slowdown,
Sepura has proved resilient 
and delivered revenue growth 
in a difficult environment. The
Company has defended its
position in the mature UK market
and has won very significant
tenders in Germany. Internal
restructuring led by new CEO,
Gordon Watling, has trimmed
the operational cost base and
funded increased investment in
sales. The general economic
conditions continue to be
challenging and at this stage the
outlook remains uncertain and
we expect limited revenue
growth this year.
