 06 Sepura plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
What first attracted you to Sepura?
I am excited to have become Chief Executive 
of Sepura at a time when we have so many
opportunities in front of us. Although a relatively
small Group, Sepura is a technology leader in
TETRA radios, which provide the secure and reliable
communications demanded by public safety and
other professionals around the world. I am proud 
to lead an organisation which is dedicated to
supporting our police, fire and ambulance services
– whose personnel are often working in the most
challenging environments. Sepura has already
secured a commanding market share in the UK and
has won important early contracts in Germany, and 
I am looking forward to the challenge of building
on this success.
What is your ambition for Sepura?
Sepura is committed to delivering innovative
products to all our customers, and by doing so
building value for its shareholders. I want to see
Sepura establish itself as the global market leader
for TETRA terminals, which we will achieve if we
continue to show the same level of commitment to
customer service and satisfaction that we do today.
We already have an outstanding reputation, and 
I believe that if we remain focused on delivering 
for our customers we can take Sepura from 
strength to strength.
Why does Sepura have such a strong reputation
for development and innovation?
That’s easy to answer: having talented people and
the best products. The people we employ share
between them a wealth of TETRA expertise, and 
it is the passion and commitment of our people 
that inspires them to develop, innovate and deliver
industry-leading products. We also have tremendous
insight into our customers’ operating environment
and changing needs, and this proven combination
has resulted in the reputation we enjoy today.
What have you changed since your appointment?
Although we already had a solid base, we needed
to take steps to ensure we can continue to compete
against a tough economic backdrop. I therefore
took a long, hard look at how we went about our
business, from which suppliers we use right through
to the way we service our customers. As a result, I
have restructured the business to ensure we have the
right balance of skills to take the business forward
and make sure we can take full advantage of the
opportunities ahead. For example, Sepura has
entered into a new manufacturing contract with
MELECS, the business which came out of our 
former European partner, Siemens, and we have
extended the scope of our manufacturing
arrangements with TCB in China, which continues
to exceed our expectations. The cost savings we
will realise will be invested in strengthening the
Group’s sales network around the globe.
Where is Sepura’s growth going to come from?
Although we are already selling into over 90
countries, this is still relatively early days for TETRA
as many networks are at the early stages of
deployment. As more countries invest in TETRA
networks, extending coverage and capacity as
more organisations see the benefits of the technology’s
improved security and functionality, we expect the
market to continue to grow for a number of years
and we are in an excellent position to benefit as
demand develops. Even after the initial roll-out 
of a network is complete, customers will need
replacement radios and we can secure valuable
follow-on revenues over the 20 year life of an
average network.
How does this apply in the UK?
The UK remains the world’s largest and most mature
TETRA market, providing more than a third of the
Group’s revenues. Customers are now starting to
“refresh” their communication equipment for
improved models with additional features and
functionality and during the last year 19 of our UK
customers bought 30,000 radios as part of this
process. TETRA technology also continues to attract
new users in both the public and private sectors.
For example, TETRA has been adopted by Cardiff’s
Radionet system, which connects the city’s retail,
entertainment and leisure businesses with local
government. So you can see that we have a 
robust position in the UK and can demonstrate
considerable success in servicing and expanding
this important market.
How can you stay competitive?
Sepura has always developed and delivered 
best-in-class terminals for our customers, and we
have an enormous depth of expertise in TETRA
technology. However, we know that in today’s
increasingly competitive market place this may 
not in itself always represent a winning formula. 
We have identified a number of areas where we 
could improve our efficiency and cost effectiveness,
including a more focused approach to expanding
the breadth of our product portfolio and strengthening
our supply chain. Above all we rely on our people
to stay one step ahead, and I would like to add my
thanks for all of the hard work that has gone into
making Sepura the success it is today.
Chief Executive’s Q&A
Gordon W atling reviews the achievements 
of his first six months as Chief Executive Officer
and outlines the challenges and opportunities
that lie ahead.
Gordon Watling became Chief
Executive Officer of Sepura in
October 2008, having been the
Company’s Chief Operating
Officer since November 2006.
He joined Sepura after 15 years
of multinational experience
working for technology and
control systems companies,
including Schlumberger, Agilent,
Invensys and Honeywell.
