 10 Serco Group plc Business review – Chief Executive’s statement
Chief Executive’s statement
In 2007 we reaped the benefits of our strategy of increasing
value: we won important contracts in existing markets,
continued to build our position in new markets and were
awarded record levels of international business. 
Christopher Hyman, Chief Serco Group plc    11 Business review – Chief Executive’s statement
In 2007 we reaped the benefits of our
strategy of increasing value: we won
important contracts in existing markets,
continued to build our position in new
markets and were awarded record levels
of international business. 
We delivered another year of double-digit
revenue growth, enhanced our margins,
further increased our free cash flow and
strengthened our balance sheet. 
I am pleased to say that we maintained
our win rates at more than 90% for rebids
and one in two for new bids. We signed
£3.6bn of contracts and were appointed
preferred bidder for further contracts
valued at around £1bn.
Highlights of our success in existing
markets included the substantial increase
in value of our Royal Navy marine services
contract to around £750m over 15 years,
and the signing of the £450m, 30-year
contract to provide services to the new
NHS Forth Valley Acute Hospital. 
The capabilities we acquired in 2005 with
ITNET and RCI enabled us to enter
exciting new markets. Two good
examples were homeland security, where
as a key member of the Trusted Borders
consortium we were awarded a ten-year
Home Office contract to develop and
implement the ‘e-Borders’ project, and
the local government strategic partnership
market, where we won a contract with
Glasgow City Council worth £265m to
provide property, information and
communication technology services.
A record level of international awards was
also a key feature. Our performance in the
US was particularly strong, with wins
including a renewed and significantly
increased contract with the US Postal
Service worth $260m, a cost analysis,
logistics planning and supply chain
consulting contract for the US Army worth
$225m, and two contracts for the Space
and Naval Warfare Systems Center to
assist with anti-terrorism systems, with a
total potential value of around $180m.
Elsewhere, we also made significant
progress. We were appointed preferred
bidder for a £400m contract to operate
and maintain the Dubai Metro, a contract
we will be signing in March 2008, and in
Australia, we won the contract to run
Borallon Correctional Centre, worth
around Aus$100m over five years, as well
as a four-year safety camera contract in
Victoria valued at Aus$90m.
Such successes demonstrate the growing
international demand for the services we
have developed within the UK market.
Appropriately, the theme for this report is
‘increasing value’. In delivering essential
services we touch many people and our
challenge is to deliver increasing value to
them all – customers, employees,
investors and the communities in which
we operate. This focus has been
consistent throughout our history and as
with so much in Serco, the starting point
is our customers and by extension the
citizens they serve. Given that the
expectations of citizens rise every day,
increasing value means a continuous
improvement in quality.
At the same time, our customers expect
significant savings. As noted elsewhere in
this report, a study by the Serco Institute
shows that introducing competition into
public services delivers average cost
reductions of 20% and sometimes much
more. 12 Serco Group plc Business review – Chief Executive’s statement
But there is more to increasing value than
just improving quality and cost. Our
customers are also asking us to manage
more and more complexity for them as
well as to support them with their broader
social objectives. 
Being a thriving, values-led company
creates value for employees. Our public
service ethos makes Serco a rewarding
place to work, helping us to attract and
retain the best people. Our growth
enables our people to take their careers 
in new directions.
The quality of our people is reflected in
the awards we receive. Amongst these,
for the fourth year in a row, Serco was
voted the UK’s most admired support
services company and this year was
ranked as the country’s fourth most
admired company overall. These awards,
conducted by Management Today, have
become a benchmark for excellence.
Increasing value for our customers and
other stakeholders also increases value
for investors. Delivering high-quality
services helps us to renew and expand
existing contracts and win work with new
customers. Our ability to address the
broader needs of our customers helps us
to establish a leadership position that also
drives our growth.
Our success in 2007 keeps us optimistic
about the future. At the end of the year,
our order book stood at a record £14.7bn
and we were preferred bidder on
contracts valued at £1bn, giving us
excellent visibility of our revenue for the
next few years. 
Opening new markets in the UK and
overseas has also significantly increased
the breadth and depth of our pipeline of
opportunities, which now stands at
£27bn. The breadth gives us confidence
of achieving double-digit growth for the
foreseeable future, while the depth allows
us to select higher margin work, enabling
us to deliver further margin improvement.
This optimism is not limited to our
financial performance. The strength of our
business, our commercial know-how and
the deep public services ethos which our
people bring to life every day mean that
we will continue to increase value for all 
of our stakeholders.
2008
2009
2010
76%
61%
48% 13% 2%
13% 2%
13% 2% 91%
76%
63%
Preferred bidder
Order book
Extensions and rebids
Visibility of planned revenue
at 31 December 2007 
