 Section 1
02  Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010
What we offer
We use our core capability – people-led service delivery and change 
management – to improve the quality and ef ciency of essential 
frontline services. Because this capability is so widely applicable,  
we can operate in a broad and growing range of markets around 
the world.
We start by analysing a customer’s problems and producing a 
bespoke solution, with improved people management at its heart.  
This means that we design organisations to remove bureaucracy, 
enhance processes, instil our values and free people to deliver 
their best.
Building long-term customer relationships is fundamental to us.  
We devolve responsibility to our contract directors, allowing them to 
anticipate and respond to customers’ needs. The Serco Management 
System, which controls how we operate, ensures these actions are 
also in Serco’s best interests.
For more on what we offer and how we work,  
see page 6
Our vision and strategy
Our vision is to be the world’s greatest service company.
Everyone in Serco discovers their own interpretation of ‘greatest’, 
which supports what they do every day. However, it is not about 
revenues, pro tability or growth. It means being the best at what  
we do and how we do it – what we call ‘bringing service to life’.
Our strategy for achieving this vision has four elements:
1
 
Building a balanced portfolio: We aim to reduce risk and increase 
opportunity by building a balanced contract portfolio, spread across 
markets. This reduces our exposure to market uctuations, enables  
us to select the best opportunities whichever market they are in,  
and allows us to transfer expertise from one market to another.
2
 
Delivering excellent service: This means meeting – and often 
exceeding – customer expectations. We do this by having the 
responsible behaviours enshrined in our values at the heart of 
everything we do. This enables us to build long-term customer 
relationships, to expand the scope and scale of contracts during  
their life, retain contracts at rebid and win new contracts.
Serco in brief
More information on the Serco Management System  
is available on our website
Serco_AR10_Section1.indd   2 14/03/2011   14:16  Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010  03
3
 
Making strategic acquisitions: While we are primarily focused on 
organic growth, we make acquisitions to gain skills which will be 
important for future growth and to enter markets where we see 
strong opportunities.
4
 
Developing new models: We respond to emerging opportunities  
by nding new ways to deliver services. This may mean collaboration 
between our divisions, bringing together skills and experience which 
few other companies can replicate, or partnering with our customer  
or the voluntary sector. Our ability to lead change keeps us at the 
forefront of our markets.
For more on our strategy,  
see pages 8 and 9
Our track record of success
Implementing our strategy – and in particular our emphasis on 
bringing service to life for customers – leads directly to our nancial 
success. The focus on service excellence underpins our win rates  
of 90% of rebids and one in two new bids, which in turn drive our 
revenue growth.
Since we listed in 1988, we have rapidly increased our revenue, 
primarily through organic growth. By securing higher margin  
contracts and managing our cost base, we have been able  
to increase our margins. At the same time, we have delivered 
signi cant improvements in our free cash ow.
Our success is recognised by others in the many awards we win  
for operational excellence.
For more on our recent performance, see the operating review  
on pages 26 to 51 and the nance review on pages 52 to 59
The future
Customers around the world are looking for help in transforming  
the quality and ef ciency of essential frontline services. This creates 
opportunities for Serco in new and existing markets and geographies. 
Our con dence in our prospects is supported by the high revenue 
visibility provided by our order book, our existing pipeline of 
opportunities and the growth potential we see across our business.
For more on our markets and opportunities,  
see page 22
Serco_AR10_Section1.indd   3 14/03/2011   14:16
