 12 Serco Group plc
We delivered another year of double-
digit revenue growth, enhanced our
margins, generated good free cash flow
and strengthened our funding position.
At the same time, we invested in
improving our capabilities, systems and
structures across the business.
In an economic environment that seems
likely to remain challenging, our expectation
of continued strong performance is
underpinned by our continued high revenue
visibility, our agility and flexibility in
addressing our customers’ needs and our
ability to direct our resources at the best
opportunities.
The strength of our business model and
the commitment of our people mean that
we continue to deliver quality service to
our customers, which was again reflected
in our contract win rates. During 2008,
we maintained our win rates at over 90%
on rebids and one in two new bids, and in
total we won over 200 contracts valued at
£3.2bn across a wide range of our markets.
Expanding presence in
existing markets
We expanded our presence in existing
markets, both through new contracts and
expanding the scope and scale of existing
contracts. Among larger wins, in the UK
we won two contracts to deliver a range
of innovative environmental services for
the London Borough of Hammersmith &
Fulham and Milton Keynes Council valued
respectively at £140m and £160m over a
maximum of 14 years, and we renewed our
education and children’s services contract
with Walsall Council, which is now valued
at £345m over a longer term of 12 years.
We were also awarded a facilities
management contract to manage 29 of
Deloitte's office facilities and buildings
valued at £50m over five years.
In defence, we continued to expand
our services to the military in the UK and
overseas. In the UK, we expanded our
contract, valued at £76m over its maximum
ten-year term, to provide the Naval Air
Command with engineering and aircraft
support services at Yeovilton and Culdrose
air stations. In Australia, Serco Sodexho
Defence Services, a Serco joint venture,
renewed its contract to provide garrison
support services at six defence bases in
the Northern Territory, and was awarded
a similar contract for the North Queensland
region. The total value of both contracts to
Serco is AUS$362m. In the US, we won a
rebid to deliver Aviation Technical
Maintenance and Support Services to the
US Navy, which has a total potential value
of US$167m over five years and
significantly increases the support we
provide to the Space and Naval Warfare
Systems Center Atlantic.
Developing new markets
In 2008, we also invested in the
development of a number of new markets.
In the local authority market, we signed our
first local authority strategic partnership,
valued at £265m over ten years, with
Glasgow City Council. We continue to
pursue similar opportunities with other local
authorities. In April, we signed our first light
rail contract in the Middle East with an
agreement, valued at £500m, to operate
and maintain the Dubai Metro, leveraging
the transport capabilities we have
developed in the UK and positioning us
well for further opportunities in the region.
Our implementation plan for the Metro is
on schedule ahead of the start of the
service in September 2009.
Chief Executive’s Statement
In 2008, we delivered strong operational and financial
performance while continuing to increase our presence
in existing markets and enter new markets. We were
successful in expanding the scope and scale of
existing contracts, both on rebids and during the
contract term, and won a number of significant
contracts in new markets with strong growth
opportunities.
Serco AR08_Ver7.qxd:Serco AR08 - Design  21/3/09  10:30  Page 12 13
Investing to support our growth
During the year, we continued to invest to
support our strong growth: this means
ensuring that we have the best people,
capabilities, systems and business
structures to meet our customers’ needs
and pursue the higher-value opportunities
available to us. For example, during the
year, we began the roll-out of our Business
Academy, providing our people with online
access to the latest tools, thinking,
approaches and techniques. At the end of
July, we reorganised the central IT services
team within our technology business in
order to better align our capabilities with
developing market needs such as in
security and resilience, and to improve
efficiency and simplify structures. In the
future, we will also leverage our new
capabilities in India to support these
and related areas. We also completed the
roll-out of our SAP system in the UK and
the Asia Pacific business, and are now
implementing it in the Middle East and
anticipate starting this process in North
America later this year.
A strong foundation for growth in the
US government services market
At the end of the year, we completed our
acquisition of SI International, a provider of
information services, technology, and
network solutions to the US Government,
for US$524m, including assumption of
debt. In 2008, SI International had revenue
of US$575.5m and underlying Adjusted
operating profit of US$36.7m.
SI International creates a strong foundation
for growth and the delivery of higher value
services in the US government services
market, by giving us scale and increased
resources to bid on larger US Government
contracts, broader customer relationships,
access to higher growth areas and
increased capabilities. Since the year end,
“We have a substantial
order book that gives us
high visibility on our
future revenues
together with increasing
growth prospects.”
Visiting the Glasgow partnership team. Presenting the Pulse Awards.
Christopher Hyman
Chief Executive
Serco AR08_Ver7.qxd:Serco AR08 - Design  20/3/09  19:09  Page 13 14 Serco Group plc
Chief Executive’s Statement
(continued)
we have made good progress in integrating
SI International with our existing North
American business, and there are early
positive signs that our integrated teams will
be able to apply our enhanced capabilities
across our enlarged customer base.
We also entered the Indian market through
the acquisition in December of a majority
shareholding in InfoVision, a BPO business
serving the domestic Indian market, for
£14.8m, and have invested in enhancing
our presence and launching the Serco
brand in that market.
In January 2009, we announced that we
had formed a partnership with the Guy’s
and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust to
improve the Trust’s pathology services and
target the pathology market in the UK and
overseas. In the UK, pathology is a
significant market, valued at around £2.5bn.
The 50:50 joint venture – the first of its kind –
is branded as GSTS Pathology and will
operate and enhance the Trust’s existing
pathology capabilities under a ten-year
contract valued at around £250m to Serco,
which started on 1 February 2009.
In the nuclear market, while we were
disappointed that our consortium did not
win the Sellafield nuclear decommissioning
contract, we have seen growth in our
nuclear assurance business which is
well placed to take advantage of
increasing nuclear opportunities
in the UK and overseas.
A values-led company
We continue to be focused on our values,
our Governing Principles as we call them,
to ensure that we operate in the best
interests of all our stakeholders in the short,
medium and long-term. By combining a
strong public service ethos with commercial
acumen, we seek to create a working
environment that is attractive and rewarding
for employees, and gives customers the
confidence they need to entrust their
requirement to deliver excellent service to
us. That environment helps Serco people all
around the world give their best, whether
improving the education a child receives,
helping pilots and commuters arrive safely
at their destinations, supporting front line
military personnel, or assisting businesses
in their plans to grow and prosper.
The quality and dedication of our people is
reflected in the many awards we receive
around the world. Some examples in 2008
include the many employees who received
military service medals for their work in
operational theatres supporting the No. 32
(The Royal) Squadron and the Skynet 5
secure military satellite communications
systems both in Iraq and Afghanistan.
At Merseyrail and Northern Rail, employees’
dedication to service has been recognised
at an industry level: Merseyrail has achieved
a high rating of 90% customer satisfaction
and Northern Rail was recognised as the
Rail Operator of the Year, having continued
to improve reliability and service quality.
Among many other awards, we were
again recognised by our peers as the UK’s
Most Admired Support Services company,
for the fifth year in a row.
“During the year,
we continued to
invest to support
our strong growth:
this means ensuring
that we have the
best people,
capabilities, systems
and business
structures to meet
our customers’
needs.”
Serco AR08_Ver7.qxd:Serco AR08 - Design  20/3/09  19:09  Page 14 Serco Group plc 15
We were also delighted to celebrate the
achievement of those teams and individuals
nominated by their colleagues to receive
a ‘Pulse’ Award, which is Serco’s way of
recognising their efforts in ensuring that
we live our Governing Principles and
support those around us and in our
wider community. Our people’s strong
commitment, which we find all over
Serco, is the real bedrock of our growth.
As 2008 came to a close, approximately
13,000 people joined the Serco family
through the acquisitions of SI International
in the US and InfoVision in India. We chose
these companies very carefully, based on
the growing markets they operate in, the
skills and capabilities they have and,
critically, the values that their people
demonstrate. We are delighted to welcome
them to the Group.
Outlook and guidance
While the global economic environment
seems likely to remain challenging, we have
a substantial order book that gives us high
visibility on our future revenues together
with increasing growth prospects.
Our long-term contracts and substantial
order book continue to provide excellent
visibility over our revenues, over 90% of
which come from government. Including
a £1bn benefit from SI International, we had
a substantial order book of £16.3bn as at
31 December 2008, and we had identified
90% of planned revenue for 2009, 76%
for 2010 and 65% for 2011.
Constrained government budgets
drive demand for efficiency and
cost-effectiveness in the delivery of public
services, especially as governments
balance their investment in providing
economic stimulus with the requirement
to control national debt. Our strong
capabilities mean that we are well
positioned to provide relevant support
in existing markets and to leverage our
expertise through exporting proven models
to new areas. With growing markets and
capabilities, our pipeline now stands
at a substantial £26bn, including
SI International’s pipeline of over £2bn.
With our substantial order book, excellent
revenue visibility, and our ability to direct
our resources flexibly to pursue the best
opportunities, we remain confident that our
business will continue to perform strongly.
We expect increasing demand for our skills
to support robust revenue growth, and see
good opportunities to improve our margins,
through our focus on managing our
contract portfolio, enhancing our efficiency,
and bidding selectively for higher-value work.
Given the confidence this gives us over the
medium-term, we are guiding to revenue
and margin by the end of 2012. In future,
reflecting the operational drivers of our
margin improvement and in line with market
practice, we will give our margin guidance
at the operating profit margin level.
Accordingly, and consistent with our
previous guidance, our projections are that
our revenue will increase to approximately
£5bn and our Adjusted operating profit
margin to approximately 6.3% by the end
of 2012, excluding material acquisitions,
disposals and currency effects.
In 2009, we expect to deliver double-digit
revenue growth and a 30bps increase
in our Adjusted PBT margin, excluding
SI International. The addition of
SI International is anticipated to increase
our 2009 revenue growth by approximately
10%. Including the benefit of SI International,
we expect our Adjusted operating profit
margin of 5.3% in 2008 to increase by
approximately 40bps in 2009. This
2009 guidance excludes material
currency effects.
2009
Visibility of planned revenue
at 31 December 2008
2010
2011 15% 1%
12% 1%
13% 1% 90%
76%
65%
Order book Extensions & rebids Preferred bidder
76%
63%
49%
76% 13%
63% 12%
49% 15%
“Our projections are
that our revenue will
increase to
approximately
£5bn and our
Adjusted operating
profit margin to
approximately 6.3%
by the end of
2012.”
Serco AR08_Ver7.qxd:Serco AR08 - Design  20/3/09  19:09  Page 15
