 Chairman’s statement
I am delighted to report on another year of strong growth.
The success we have achieved in 2007 underpins our
confidence in delivering double-digit growth for the
foreseeable future.
8 Serco Group plc Chairman’s statement
Kevin Beeston, Chairman Financial results
I am delighted to report on another year of
strong growth. Revenue grew by 10.3%
to £2,811m, Adjusted profit before tax
(Adjusted PBT) rose by 17.3% to
£123.2m and Adjusted earnings per share
grew 16.6% to 18.57p. The Adjusted PBT
margin increased from 4.1% to 4.4%,
benefiting from our management of the
contract portfolio and continued efficiency
improvements. Profit before tax rose by
6.7% to £114.6m and earnings per share
were 2.2% higher at 16.98p. Profit before
tax and earnings per share in 2006
included the benefit of the one-off gain on
sale of our PFI investments.
Our cash performance continued to be
strong, with Group free cash flow
increasing 14.3% to £97.6m. This
contributed to a reduction in Group
recourse net debt of more than £34m to
£137.9m. The strength of our balance
sheet was further enhanced by the
decline in our net pension liabilities.
Dividend
Serco’s policy is to increase the total
dividend each year broadly in line with the
increase in underlying earnings. The
Board has proposed a final dividend of
3.02p per share, representing an increase
on the 2006 final dividend of 18.4% and
bringing the total dividend for the year to
4.25p, growth of 18.1%. The final
dividend will be paid on 21 May 2008 to
shareholders on the register on
7 March 2008.
Board
There were a number of changes to the
composition of the Board during the year.
As announced on 31 August 2006, 
I moved from Executive Chairman to
Non-Executive Chairman on 1 September
2007. Grant Rumbles, our Chief Operating
Officer, was appointed an Executive
Director on 3 July 2007.
DeAnne Julius retired on 29 October 2007
as a Non-Executive Director and from her
post as Senior Independent Director. 
I would like to thank her for her considerable
contribution to our development and wish
her well. Baroness Ford of Cunninghame
was appointed the new Senior Independent
Director from the same date.
Thomas Corcoran joined Serco as a Non-
Executive Director on 3 December 2007.
Thomas is a member of the Remuneration,
Audit, Nomination and Training and
Development committees.
Managing our growth
One of Serco’s great strengths is its long-
term customer relationships. We nurture
these by devolving responsibility to the
contract level, giving our people the
freedom to anticipate and respond to
customers’ changing requirements. 
This delivers excellent organic growth but
it also creates a need to make sure that
these actions are applied consistently and
in the best interests of Serco and its
shareholders.
Over many years, we have developed a
robust system of governance and internal
controls, which we call the Serco
Management System. It covers all areas
of our operations, from finance through to
bidding for new contracts, and we
continue to evolve it to ensure it keeps
pace with Serco’s rapid development. 
This allows us to operate in a devolved
manner while ensuring consistency and
an upward line of accountability and
control to the Board. The quality of these
processes is evident in our operational
and financial performance. The right
balance between flexibility and control is
essential and maintaining this balance will
ensure a successful future for Serco.
Growing markets and higher margins
underpin positive outlook
Our markets continue to generate a broad
range of high-quality opportunities for
Serco, both in the UK and internationally.
The success we have achieved in 2007
underpins our confidence in delivering
double-digit growth for the foreseeable
future. At the same time, our focus on
managing our contract portfolio, enhancing
our efficiency and bidding selectively for
higher-value work will allow us to further
increase our margins and we expect a 30
basis point improvement in our Adjusted
PBT margin in each of 2008 and 2009.
I look forward to reporting to shareholders
on our progress in 2008.
Serco Group plc    9 Chairman’s statement
