 18  Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Section 3
Our colleagues across the 
world deliver essential services 
and their achievements have 
led to a strong nancial 
performance in very challenging 
times. We expect Serco’s 
position in new, diverse and 
expanding international markets 
to deliver ongoing bene ts.  
Our agility and capacity  
to innovate underpin our 
con dence in continued growth 
across all our regions.
Overview of the year
2010 was a successful year for Serco, thanks 
to the commitment of our people to delivering 
quality essential services that matter to 
millions of people. Our continued focus  
on excellent service for our customers 
resulted in high win rates and strong 
operational and nancial performance in very 
challenging times. 
 Serco delivered a strong nancial 
performance in 2010, with revenue growth of 
9.0% to £4,326.7m. Organic growth was 
7.6%, excluding currency effects.
This growth demonstrated the capability, 
resilience and bene ts of our portfolio,  
and our ability to develop new sectors and 
geographies as economic headwinds began 
to be felt in the UK. Revenue growth was 
particularly strong in AMEAA and we 
achieved a very good second half in the 
Americas. In the UK, good momentum from 
wins in 2009 drove growth in civil government 
markets while austerity measures began to 
be felt, particularly in the defence and local 
government markets.
Adjusted operating pro t rose by 12.6% to 
£258.7m, re ecting a 19 basis point increase 
in Adjusted operating pro t margin to 6.0% 
(16 basis points increase excluding currency). 
The Group delivered exceptionally strong  
free cash ow of £185.8m, compared with 
£137.3m in 2009. Cash bene ted by around 
£20m from asset sale proceeds, a particularly 
high level of joint venture dividends and low 
tax payments.
Our policy is to increase the total dividend 
each year broadly in line with the increase  
in underlying earnings. Adjusted earnings  
per share rose 17.5% to 34.69p per share. 
Re ecting this growth, the Board has 
proposed a nal dividend of 5.15p per share, 
bringing the total dividend for the year to 
7.35p, up 17.6% compared with the previous 
year. The nal dividend will be paid, subject 
to shareholder approval, on 17 May 2011 to 
shareholders on the register on 11 March 2011.
Chief Executive’s Statement
Serco_AR10_Section3a.indd   18 15/03/2011   13:35  Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010  19
 In 2010, we signed contracts valued at 
£4.2bn across a wide range of markets,  
and were appointed preferred bidder for  
a further £1.4bn of contracts. Our wins 
included signi cant contract extensions  
and expansions, as well as new contracts  
in existing and new geographies and sectors. 
The value of these wins does not include  
a number of Inde nite Delivery, Inde nite 
 uantity (IDI ) contracts in the US, which  
we quali ed for and which have a combined 
ceiling value of US 4bn. These enable us to 
compete against other appointed companies 
for one or more of the speci c task orders 
within the IDI . 
Among the notable expansions and 
extensions to contracts during the year were:
 a two-year extension to our joint venture’s 
Northern Rail contract, valued to Serco  
at approximately £530m
 a renewed and expanded ten-year £100m 
contract to provide services at RAF Halton 
and RAF High Wycombe
 a renewed and expanded US 170m, 
 ve-year air traf c control contract with  
the US Federal Aviation Administration
 one renewed contract and one new 
contract with the US Navy to provide 
hazardous materials management,  
valued at approximately US 84m over 
3 years and US 88m over ve years, 
respectively, and
 a renewed ten-year contract with the Royal 
Australian Navy for our 50:50 joint venture 
with P O, valued to Serco at A 250m.
We had a number of important contract wins 
during 2010. These included:
 a 25-year, £650m environmental services 
contract with Sandwell Metropolitan 
Borough Council
 a £415m, 26 year contract to provide 
and operate a new prison at Belmarsh 
West, London
 a ten-year contract with King’s College 
Hospital NHS Foundation Trust for our 
GSTS Pathology joint venture, valued at 
around £110m to Serco
 a £200m, eight-year strategic partnership 
with Hertfordshire County Council, and 
 a ve-year transportation management 
contract with the State of Georgia 
Department of Transportation, valued 
at US 50m. 
Transferring our skills and capabilities across 
our business helps us to expand into new 
geographies and sectors, and we had further 
success during 2010. Of particular note, 
we were:
 awarded our rst home affairs contract  
in New Zealand, to manage the Mt Eden 
and Auckland Central Remand Prison, 
valued at up to NZ 300m (£140m) over 
ten years, and
 appointed preferred bidder for our rst 
contract in the Australian health market – 
a substantial ten-year contract to provide 
services at Fiona Stanley Hospital in Perth. 
In addition there were many smaller contracts 
won by transferring capabilities, including  
a ve-year contract with a new US customer, 
the Department of Veterans Affairs, to provide 
human capital solutions, and transport 
consultancy including a contract for the 
Makkah Metro in Saudi Arabia. 

The economic environment, reform of public 
services and nation building are driving strong 
demand for the ef cient delivery of essential 
frontline services, creating opportunities for 
Serco in both new and existing markets. Our 
broad capabilities and track record of delivery 
allow us to support customers as they look 
for help in transforming the quality and 
ef ciency of these services, and in tackling 
key challenges such as economic stability 
and development, congestion, security, 
health and climate change.
We launched the Barclays Cycle Hire 
scheme just 11 months after winning the 
contract.
We continue to grow our presence in the 
Australasian home affairs market.
For details of some of the many smaller and 
medium-sized contract wins, see our contract 
news updates
For more details of these and other contract 
awards, see the operating review on pages 
26 to 51
Serco_AR10_Section3a.indd   19 14/03/2011   14:20 20  Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Section 3
Chief Executive’s Statement
international platforms from which to grow 
organically and bene t from the potential for 
rapid expansion of those markets. We also 
see signi cant potential in India, where we 
have recently established our presence. 
The US is the largest government contracting 
market in the world and our skills and 
capabilities, enhanced by those of our 2008 
acquisition of SI International, enable us to 
participate successfully. 
We are well positioned to grow our share  
of the addressable federal services market, 
which is valued at over US 150bn per 
annum. While the Government is seeking  
to reduce expenditure in certain areas, such 
as large weapons programmes, we expect  
to see substantial opportunities in emerging 
priority areas such as IT infrastructure, 
cybersecurity, federal health and energy-
ef cient IT . 
In Asia Paci c, we have an active bid pipeline, 
driven by the need for better infrastructure 
and services, in a scally conservative 
environment. Governments in Australia  
are aiming to return their budgets to  
surplus, helping to build a solid pipeline  
of opportunities in areas such as health,  
justice and defence. 
In markets such as the Middle East and India, 
we continue to expect further opportunities 
arising from the demand for new services, 
including public transport systems, facilities 
management, education, health services  
and national security.
While we are primarily focused on organic 
growth, we will continue to acquire new  
skills and capabilities where they bring 
opportunities for growth in new markets  
and sectors, such as the US federal market 
and international BPO markets.
 During 2010, we set a new vision for Serco – 
to be the world’s greatest service company.
Being the greatest is not about the size  
of our revenues, pro ts or growth. It means 
being the best at what we do and how we  
do it, so we deliver maximum bene t for  
our customers. Everyone in Serco discovers 
their own interpretation of ‘greatest’, which 
supports what they do every day – bringing 
service to life.
In the UK, the Government’s Comprehensive 
Spending Review has created a pressing 
need for public services to increase their 
ef ciency in the face of reduced budgets  
and our markets are not immune. We signed 
a Memorandum of Understanding with the 
Cabinet Of ce in November to deliver cost 
savings on a number of contracts this year, 
further developing our strong partnership  
with the UK Government. While these savings 
are not material to the Group results, they 
combine with other headwinds, including the 
cancellation of one prison, the phasing out of 
the Business Link contracts and the pending 
developments in public service reform,  
to create a challenging environment in 2011. 
The UK Government has stated that the public 
sector does not have to deliver the services  
it commissions. This is paving the way for the 
private and voluntary sectors to participate 
more fully in newer markets, such as welfare 
to work and offender rehabilitation, and for 
the development of new delivery models, 
such as mutual organisations. We also expect 
to see service providers increasingly paid for 
the results they deliver, a model with which 
we already have considerable experience, 
particularly in the Flexible New Deal contracts 
which are now planned to end in  
June 2011. These are to be replaced by the  
Work Programme framework and we have 
been selected as a bidder for contracts in 
seven of the 11 regions.
We continue to work positively with our 
customers in the UK as they look for solutions 
to their nancial and operational challenges. 
We are con dent that our opportunities to 
support those needs will become clearer later 
this year and we expect these to drive further 
growth. We are anticipating that a 
forthcoming parliamentary white paper on 
Open Public Services will outline in more 
depth how private and voluntary sector 
organisations could deliver additional UK 
public services.
Our international portfolio, spread across 
many expanding economies and markets, 
remains an important and proven element  
of our strategy. Our businesses outside the 
UK now account for 40% of our revenues  
and we are bene ting from the broader 
capabilities and contract portfolios we have 
developed in recent years. Our progress  
in establishing home markets in the US, 
Australia and the Middle East gives us strong 
We are well positioned to grow our share of 
the addressable US federal services market.
We expect further opportunities in the Middle 
East arising from the demand for new 
services.
Serco_AR10_Section3a.indd   20 14/03/2011   14:20  Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010  21
Our Northern Rail joint venture was 2010 Train 
Operator of the year. 
We have excellent visibility of future revenue 
due to the signed contracts that make up  
our order book, contracts we expect to 
extend and rebid, and contracts at the 
preferred bidder stage which we expect to 
sign. At 31 December 2010, our order book 
stood at £16.6bn, compared with £17.1bn  
at the end of 2009, re ecting our contract 
signings during year, the ending of our UK 
Flexible New Deal contracts and the cost 
savings on a number of contracts we have 
delivered to the UK Cabinet Of ce. We had 
visibility, at 31 December, of 92% of planned 
revenue for 2011, 77% for 2012 and 66%  
for 2013. Our pipeline of opportunities is 
currently £29bn. 
For 2011, we expect good organic revenue 
growth and progress towards our 2012 
margin guidance. Whilst this re ects the 
contracts we have won in 2010 and the 
opportunities we expect to see across our 
regions during 2011, we have also taken into 
account the headwinds in the UK. We expect 
the opportunities arising from the changed 
economic environment in the UK to begin  
to emerge from late 2011. 
Prospects beyond the current year are 
encouraging and we continue to expect, by 
the end of 2012, an increase in revenue to 
approximately £5bn and in Adjusted operating 
pro t margin to approximately 6.3% .
Christopher Hyman CBE 
Chief Executive
Note: excluding material acquisitions, disposals and 
currency effects, and based on 2008 exchange rates.
Bringing service to life describes what we  
do in two ways. It captures how we breathe 
new life into services, transforming their 
ef ciency, productivity and effectiveness.  
And it recognises that the services we deliver 
make a difference to millions of lives around 
the world.
In this report, we have highlighted just  
a few examples of how we bring service  
to life. These examples typify our approach  
to service, the commitment and passion  
of our people and the outcomes we deliver 
for our customers.
People
Serco has some 70,000 people delivering 
essential services around the world. Our 
success is not only the result of their hard 
work but also their commitment to our values 
and service ethos. I thank them for their 
outstanding contribution to Serco and to  
our customers in 2010.
We have a clear strategy for managing and 
developing our people, which in turn supports 
our overall strategy and vision: to be the 
world’s greatest service company, we have  
to be the best at managing people.
Our people strategy is to:
 develop leaders who are t for the future 
and who will thrive as Serco grows
 have people who bring service to life,  
who are fully integrated and engaged  
with Serco, and whom we can develop  
to achieve their full potential, and 
 make it easier to manage our people,  
by continually enhancing our systems 
and processes.
We made further good progress against each 
part of this strategy in 2010.
Reiterating guidance
Our guidance re ects the growth potential we 
see across all our regions, supported by our 
high revenue visibility and substantial pipeline 
of opportunities. 
Serco’s success is a result of the hard work, 
values and service ethos of our people.
We help UK councils increase recycling 
rates and reduce waste sent to land ll.
For more information on our people, see 
pages 60 to 63
Serco_AR10_Section3a.indd   21 14/03/2011   18:11 22  Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Section 3
At the start of 2010, we created 
 ve new divisions based  
around our principal markets. 
This allowed us to maximise  
our focus on growth and 
opportunities and maintain  
a exible and devolved 
organisation which responds  
to our customers’ needs.
Both the sections on market opportunities 
and drivers, and the operating review,  
are presented according to these divisions:
 Civil Government
 Defence, Science and Nuclear
 Local Government and Commercial
 Americas, and
 AMEAA (Africa, Middle East, Asia, 
and Australasia).
Our markets offer a broad range of 
opportunities, as governments address 
substantial budget de cits and face continued 
pressure to improve public services. Some 
governments are implementing de cit 
reduction programmes and require ongoing 
ef ciencies in the delivery of essential 
frontline services, which others are seeking  
to invest in creating or improving services.  
All are addressing signi cant challenges 
including unemployment and economic 
development, ageing and growing 
populations, migration, security, congestion 
and climate change.
Faced with this, governments are increasingly 
recognising the bene ts of opening new 
areas of public service to competition. 
Studies have demonstrated that competition 
can reduce the cost of public services by 
10-30% and stimulate innovation in delivery. 
UK
In the UK, the economic environment has 
created a pressing need for more ef cient 
public services in the face of reduced 
budgets. In its Comprehensive Spending 
Review, the Government stated its intention  
to move from being a deliverer of services  
to becoming a procurer, and is now looking 
to promote choice, increase accountability 
and devolve powers away from the centre. 
The competed public services market has 
potential to increase signi cantly in pursuit  
of ef ciency; it was estimated in 2008 to  
be valued at some £80bn, representing only  
one third of the Government’s expenditure 
on services.
We are anticipating headwinds in the current 
year whilst decisions on reform are resolved 
and customers develop their plans for future 
spending. However, a number of government 
reviews including those into defence and 
security, transport and welfare, and a 
forthcoming parliamentary white paper on 
Open Public Services, may result in new 
opportunities for the private and voluntary 
sector organisations to deliver services. We 
expect further clarity as the year progresses.
 Welfare is an area of signi cant UK 
Government expenditure. The Work 
Programme is Britain’s biggest employment 
programme for decades and will also be the 
 rst major move to a system of payment by 
results. The contracts are substantially larger, 
longer and have greater scope than the 
current Flexible New Deal contracts, as they 
will extend support to other groups including 
the 2.5 million people claiming Incapacity 
Bene t. The Work Programme will be let 
through framework agreements to allow for 
faster and more exible procurement, and  
will adopt the model we have successfully 
pioneered of subcontracting frontline delivery 
to networks of providers. There is also 
potential for other employment-related 
support services contracts to be let through 
this framework over the next ve years, 
including subsequent contracts that attract 
European Social Fund support. 
In home affairs, the rst three existing 
public-sector prisons are being market-tested 
in 2011. We also see opportunities arising 
from the drive to manage the existing prison 
estate more effectively, reduce re-offending 
and improve the ef ciency of probation, 
where a £1.6bn market is opening up.  
In addition, we are well placed to help with 
the proposed move to more community 
sentences for offenders, for example through 
our capabilities in electronic monitoring and 
rehabilitation of offenders.
The UK health budget is approximately  
20% of government spending, at more than 
£100bn per annum, and reforms are focused 
on greater ef ciency and improved 
Market opportunities and drivers
Serco has made a successful start in the 
growing welfare to work market.
We see opportunities to grow our pathology 
joint venture.
Serco_AR10_Section3a.indd   22 14/03/2011   14:21  Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010  23
also exploring how we can apply our 
operations and maintenance capability in 
critical national infrastructure to the wider 
renewable energy market and establishing  
a Centre for Carbon Measurement.
 In UK local government, councils are under 
signi cant pressure from reductions in central 
government grants, a freeze on council tax 
increases, reductions in business rates and 
increased service demands from citizens. 
This is driving interest in strategic partnering, 
service sharing, process re-engineering, 
personalisation of services and in some 
areas, engagement with the voluntary sector. 
We are currently in discussions with more 
than 20 local authorities about how we can 
help them to transform service delivery. Our 
successful bids into En eld Borough Council, 
Hertfordshire County Council and Sandwell 
Metropolitan Borough Council are examples 
of how we have applied our broad and deep 
capabilities. We are committed to partnering 
with the voluntary sector and small and 
medium-sized enterprises, to develop 
solutions which address our customers’ needs. 
We are also engaging actively with a number 
of local authorities to discuss models for  
the outsourcing of education and children’s 
services, in the wake of the spending review 
and Education white papers. Our partnership 
models, offering shared revenue and pro t, 
have been well received. We anticipate a 
number of opportunities coming to market 
in 2011.
We are seeing a revolution in the way  
health services are delivered, increased 
opportunities to build on our integrated 
facilities management offering to acute 
hospital trusts and reaching into middle of ce 
services such as human resources and 
 nance. Our success in transferring these 
skills as part of our proposition for Fiona 
Stanley Hospital in Australia, where we are 
preferred bidder, demonstrates the value of 
our experience.
outcomes. We see opportunities to grow  
our pathology joint venture and provide 
facilities management and support services 
to healthcare establishments and GP 
commissioners. We will also look at further 
opportunities to manage NHS hospitals  
and expand in offender healthcare.
 In the UK defence market, the Government 
has moved to a ‘National Security’ policy  
with the publication of the Strategic Defence 
and Security Review (SDSR) in October 2010, 
bringing together a number of markets  
in which we currently have presence and are 
increasing our potential. The SDSR also 
identi ed target reductions to the number  
of civil servants and the armed forces over 
the next ve years, involving new ways of 
working and a more radical approach to  
the delivery of both back-of ce services  
and procurement. Implementation of these 
changes is likely to provide opportunities  
for Serco to support the Ministry of Defence 
(MOD) in change management, transition 
and the provision of complex integrated 
services. We are one of two bidders awaiting 
the decision on the Recruiting Partnering 
Project for the Army, and one of three bidders 
on the Future Outsourced Activities 
Programme for Royal Navy recruits. 
In wider security and civil resilience markets, 
we are pursuing opportunities such as the 
long-term provision of outsourced training 
services to the London Fire and Emergency 
Planning Authority.
The UK’s scienti c establishments have a 
critical role in addressing challenges such  
as economic recovery, climate change and 
national and energy security. We are in a 
strong position to contribute given our 
experience of managing the National Physical 
Laboratory, the National Nuclear Laboratory, 
the Atomic Weapons Establishment and our 
nuclear assurance business. Our partnership 
with the MOD on the Chemical, Biological, 
Radiological and Nuclear Protection Delivery 
T eam also enables us to bid for further 
partnerships within the MOD. 
In the energy sector, the UK Government 
faces signi cant challenges in securing the 
country’s long-term needs while tackling 
climate change. Our participation ranges from 
delivering regulatory and technical services in 
the nuclear new-build programme to reducing 
the radar interference of windfarms. We are 
UK councils are looking for help with 
transforming service delivery.
The scienti c establishments we run will help 
the UK Government address challenges 
such as climate change and energy security.
Serco_AR10_Section3a.indd   23 14/03/2011   14:21 24  Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Section 3
Market opportunities and drivers
AMEAA
In Australia and New Zealand, there  
is a growing range of opportunities. 
In the justice sector, we are seeing a number 
of new-build and existing prisons being  
put to the market, as governments challenge 
the traditional approach. 
We also continue to pursue the emerging 
health market in both Australia and Hong 
Kong, as governments encourage the private 
and voluntary sectors to challenge traditional 
service delivery models for the build, nance 
and operation of hospitals. 
Our defence strategy in Australia continues  
to develop, with opportunities in areas  
such as logistics and garrison support.  
The Government’s Strategic Reform 
Programme will support the creation  
of some of these opportunities, through 
reviews of warehousing, distribution and 
equipment maintenance. 
Serco’s operations in the Middle East centre 
on the United Arab Emirates. This region 
remains buoyant for Serco as governments 
progress with infrastructure and public 
service projects in transport, education and 
health. We continue to build on our core 
markets in the region, particularly in facilities 
management, transport and aviation, and  
are well placed to move into new markets  
of health, education and defence with a 
strong pipeline of opportunities for the 
foreseeable future. 
In India, we continue to develop our presence 
in the domestic BPO market. In addition,  
our Global Transport team is shaping 
signi cant opportunities in both the Middle 
East and India including rail, road and traf c 
management, marine services and aviation.

The US market, which is the largest 
government contracting market in the world, 
offers Serco opportunities in both the federal 
defense and federal civilian markets. 
In the US federal services market, of which 
our addressable share is valued at US 150bn 
per annum out of a total of US 300bn, we 
expect the increasing reliance on information 
technology to continue to present signi cant 
opportunities for Serco. IT is essential for 
successful government operations and we 
expect increasing demand in areas where  
we have strong capabilities, such as systems 
engineering, cybersecurity, program 
management, command and control,  
and logistics systems modernisation. 
Additionally, the federal government 
continues to face workforce shortages and to 
rely on contractors. Serco expects to grow in 
managed services including human capital 
management, military personnel support 
services, records management, business 
process outsourcing and logistics supply 
operations. With our scale, capabilities and 
past performance, we are well positioned to 
bid and win larger contracts. 
We quali ed on a number of Inde nite 
Delivery, Inde nite uantity (IDI ) contract 
vehicles, where we are one of a number of 
companies able to bid for speci c task orders 
within the IDI . Notable examples awarded 
during 2010 included a ve-year personnel 
support services IDI contract with the US 
Army, allowing us to compete with 16 other 
awardees for up to US 2.6bn of task orders. 
We are also eligible to compete with 11 other 
awardees for task orders within a studies  
and analysis IDI contract with the US Army, 
amounting to US 1.3bn over ve years. In 
addition, we, along with 13 other companies, 
are signed up to a ve-year Recruiting and 
Retention IDI contract for up to US 274m  
of task orders, to provide program analysis, 
information technology, counselling and 
training with the US Army.
Since the year end, the US Navy’s Space and 
Naval Warfare Systems Command has 
named Serco as one of four winners for an 
IDI contract to support the Navy in the 
installation and testing of Command, Control, 
Communications, Computers, Intelligence, 
Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) 
systems. The contract has a ceiling value  
of US 1.4bn over a three-year base period, 
with a two-year option period.
The US is the world’s largest government 
contracting market.
Transport is one of the markets where we 
see further opportunities in the Middle East.
Serco_AR10_Section3a.indd   24 14/03/2011   14:21  Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010  25
Serco_AR10_Section3a.indd   25 14/03/2011   14:21
