 08 Severfield—Rowen Plc annual report 2011
21153.04   02/04/12   Proof 3
Group at a Glance
t he combined resources of our Group of companies have the design skills, engineering 
skills and experience to handle complex projects over a diverse range of market sectors. 
 
We can facilitate the production of a wide range of steelwork packages, from projects 
requiring high added value engineering content to basic structural work.
fis Her
engineering
s everfield –rowen
structures
severfield –reeve 
international 
(abu dhabi Project office)
jsw s everfield
structures
watson steel
structures
atlas ward
structures
engineering 
construction 
training
steelcraft erection 
services
Heron Tower, London
s everfield–rowen 
structures ltd
Located at Dalton in north Yorkshire, this is the 
largest of the operating Companies and is the hub 
of much of the Group’s activity. On its 55 acre site 
it has ten production lines where the manufacturing 
process is undertaken in a controlled environment.
t he Company's Pre-Construction services  Division 
is based in south normanton, Derbyshire.  
steelcraft, the Group's in-house erection business, is 
also based at Dalton.
watson steel
structures ltd
t his world famous business, founded in 1933, is 
one of the larger u K structural steelwork companies 
in its own right. it is internationally respected, with  
a reputation for having specialist skills in relation  
to the design and engineering of high added  
value steelwork.
ArcelorMittal Orbit, Stratford 09 our business 09
21153.04   02/04/12   Proof 3
Distribution Centre, Dunfermline
atlas ward  
structures ltd
Located in sherburn, near scarborough, atlas 
Ward is the leading design and build steelwork 
contractor for distribution warehouses in the u K. 
atlas Ward designs, fabricates and erects structural 
steelwork principally for the warehouse, industrial 
and distribution sectors and has a business, skill base 
and client profile which is complementary to the rest 
of the Group.  
t he Light steel Division, specialising in stairs and 
other ancillary products, is also based at sherburn.
Derby Civic Centre, Derbyshire
fis Her  
engineering ltd
Located in northern ireland, Fisher engineering 
Ltd is recognised to be one of europe’s leading 
constructional steel fabricators. t he company has a 
highly skilled workforce and is equipped with the 
latest state-of-the-art manufacturing processes.
t he Company has its own in-house erection 
business.
Prestige Shantiniketan, Bangalore
jsw severfield 
structures ltd
Located adjacent to JsW steel’s Plant at Vidyanagar, 
in the District of Bellary, Karnataka, india, the plant 
consists of two fabrication lines and a plate line. 
Plant investment has been significant, with many 
of severfield–rowen’s innovative features being 
incorporated into the Joint Venture. t he Company  
is involved in the design, fabrication and erection  
of structural steelwork to principally service the 
indian markets.
