 14 Severfield—Rowen Plc Annual Report 2011
21153.04 27/04/12   Proof
Year at a Glance
Despite difficult trading conditions during 2011, the Group illustrates some of its 
significant highlights through the year.
QUARTER 2 QUARTER 3 QUARTER 4 QUARTER 1
  
Jan uar Y
a Pri L
JuLY
OCt OBer
january
Roll out of Safety leadership Teams “S lTs” across all 
Group companies
s Lt’s progress is reported and reviewed by the Group 
safety Leadership t eam, which is chaired by the CeO. t his 
methodology is now firmly embedded across the Group.
aPril
leeds Arena contract award for fisher Engineering
a ward of contract for the construction of a state-of-the-art 
13,500 seater concert and entertainment venue in Leeds. 
it will be operated by sm G europe, the largest operator of 
sports and entertainment venues.
october 
Key Indian project milestone  
for j SW Severfield
JsW severfield completed structural steel construction on 
their first commercial office project in india, the Prestige 
shantiniketan, Bangalore.
july
Awards
t he Group received structural steel Design a wards 
for Cannon Place, London and the american express 
Community stadium, Brighton.
Both st Botolphs, London and exCeL Phase 2, London 
received commendations. 15 OUR BUSINESS 15
21153.04 27/04/12   Proof
  
FeBruar Y marCH
maY June
auGust seP tem Ber
nOV em Ber DeCem Ber
february
BMW contract award for Atlas Ward
a ward of contract with BmW for expansion of 
their Cowley, Oxfordshire plant to service demand 
for the next generation of minis to be built at the 
site from 2013.
marc H
Group achievement of BES 6001 - Responsible 
Sourcing of Construction Products (BREEAM)
severfield-rowen are the only u K structural steelwork 
supplier to have achieved this certification. 
may
Watson Steel Structures commences work on 
london Cable Car contract 
t he London Cable Car is a 1km long gondola link 
to be operated by t ransport for London, opening in 
time for the 2012 London Olympics. Watson’s were 
uniquely placed to provide the technical heavy steel 
requirements of this complex scheme.
june
Investor Open Day, london 
t he Group held a well attended Open Day for key investors, which 
involved a tour of the 2012 Olympic facilities and the Westfield 
shopping Centre, stratford.
november
Successful re-financing
t he Group renewed its banking facilities and 
entered in to a new five year £50m revolving 
credit facility with r Bs and Yorkshire Bank, a 
member of the national australia Bank.
december
Award of Arla dairy contract for Severfield-Rowen Structures
t his state-of-the-art dairy facility in aylesbury, Buckinghamshire will be 
the first zero carbon milk production facility in the world.
august
Award of the leadenhall Building contract
122 Leadenhall street (the “Cheesegrater”) is an  
iconic 225 metre British Land development designed 
by richard rogers, scheduled for completion in 
2014. 
sePtember
Receipt of ISO14001 and ISO18001 certifications  
at j SW Severfield Structures, India
t hese are the first such certifications for a steelwork contractor in india 
and are testament to the rapid achievement of operational objectives 
and health and safety focus of the business.  
