 08 severfield—r owen plc Annual Report 2010
20155-04  27/04/2011 Proof 10
Gr Oup AT A GLANCE
The combined resources of our Group of Companies have the design, engineering skills and experience to handle complex projects over a diverse 
range of market sectors. 
 
We can facilitate the production of a wide range of steelwork packages, including projects requiring high added value engineering content to 
basic structural work.
fIS h ER
ENgINEERINg
SEvER f IEld-R EEvE
StRU ctURES
SEvER f IEld-REEvE 
INtERNatIONal 
(abu dhabi p roject Office)
j SW SEvER f IEld
StRU ctURES
WatSON StEE l
StRU ctURES
atla S WaR d
StRU ctURES
s everF ielD-reeve structures l tD
Located at Dalton in North Yorkshire, this is the largest of the operating 
Companies and is the hub of much of the Group’s activity. On its 55 
acre site it has 10 production lines where the manufacturing process is 
undertaken in a controlled environment.
Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham
Wats On steel structures l tD
This world famous business, founded in 1933, is one of the larger 
UK structural steelwork companies in its own right. It is internationally 
respected, with a reputation for having specialist skills in relation to the 
design and engineering of high added value steelwork.
Wimbledon Centre Court Roof, London
ENgINEERINg 
cONS t RUct ION 
t Ra ININg
St EElcRaft EREct ION 
SERv IcES
ROWEN
StRU ctURES 09 OUR BUSINESS 09
20155-04  27/04/2011 Proof 10
FisH er enGineerinG l t D
Located in Northern Ireland, Fisher Engineering Ltd is recognised to be 
one of Europe’s leading constructional steel fabricators. The Company has 
a highly skilled workforce and is equipped with the latest state-of-the-art 
manufacturing processes.
National Conference Centre, Dublin
atlas W arD structures l tD
Located in Sherburn, Nr Scarborough, North Yorkshire, Atlas Ward 
is the leading Design and Build Steelwork Contractor for Distribution 
Warehouses in the UK. Atlas Ward designs, fabricates and erects structural 
steelwork principally for the warehouse sector and has a business, skill 
base and client profile which is complementary to the rest of the Group.
3 Individual Distribution Centres, Prologis Park, Wellingborough
js W severF ielD structures l tD
Located adjacent to JSW Steel’s Plant at Vidyanagar, in the District of 
Bellary, Karnataka, India, the plant consists of 2 fabrication lines and a 
plate line. Plant investment has been significant, with many of Severfield–
Rowen’s innovative features being incorporated into the Joint Venture. 
The Company is involved in the design, fabrication and erection of 
structural steelwork to principally service the Indian markets.
JSW CTL Building, Bellary, India
