 18 Severfield—Rowen Plc Annual Report 2011
21153.04 27/04/12   Proof
Chief executive’s review
TOM hAUG h Ey, CH ieF exeCuti Ve OFFiCer
in 2011 the u K structural steel sector endured a 
further year of slow demand and tough trading 
conditions. against this background we were 
conditioned and prepared for the market and have 
produced resilient results and performance. 
UK Overview
in 2011 the u K structural steel sector 
endured a further year of slow demand and 
tough trading conditions, which was 
exacerbated by diminishing confidence 
levels for business prospects in 2012 as a 
result of the economic environment.
against this background we were 
conditioned and prepared for the market 
and have produced resilient results and 
performance. encouragingly, our u K 
businesses entered 2012 with a strong 
order book of good quality contracts having 
now successfully executed all of our 
Olympic related work.
While there is little evidence of imminent u K 
recovery, either in the broad economy or 
the overall construction industry, we are 
confident that our capabilities, focus and 
relative financial strength will in the 
meanwhile sustain creditable results and 
enhance our competitive position.
Order Book
t he u K order book at £221m (march 
2012) is similar to the order book 12 
months previously (march 2011 £226m), 
which contained Olympic related structures. 
t he current order book contains a broad 
quality mix of London Commercial Offices, 
industrial, Warehousing, Waste to energy 
projects, t ransport including airports, 
education and Leisure.
t he prospective u K projects which we have 
identified as appropriate opportunities for 
the Group total some £510m and gives us 
confidence for the remainder of 2012 and 
beyond.
Costs
Costs within the business continued to be 
managed tightly and are under constant 
review, aided by the Group’s new financial 
software and revised authority limits at all 
levels. Procurement related initiatives 
launched in 2011 are translating into 
benefits for 2012.
Prices and Margins
Prices remain generally tight in the u K 
market as surviving competitors seek to 
obtain a share of a smaller market.
t he Group is pleased with its margin 
achievements of 5.3% against a tough 
backdrop and anticipates that margins will 
remain stable in 2012.
Projects
some of the notable projects during 2011 
include those from the predicted key sectors 
of t ransport/a viation, Commercial Offices, 
industrial, Distribution and Power/energy.
X X Heathrow airport
X X Blackfriars Bridge, London
X X Leadenhall street, London
X X Gatwick north t erminal
X X Park House, London 
X X Ocado, t amworth 
X X BmW, Oxford 
X X morrisons, Bridgwater 
X X marks & spencer, Cheshire Oaks 
X X Co-operative HQ, manchester 
X X t itanic Quarter, Belfast 
X X Howick Place, London 
X X Paris Philharmonic Hall
X X sellafield Building, sa Vs
X X London Bridge Place
X X t he shard, London Bridge
X X southmead Hospital
X X amex House, Brighton
X X amazon, Dunfermline
X X Warner Bros, Leavesden
X X asda, Birkenhead
X X Birmingham Library
X X ineos, runcorn
X X Leeds arena 19 OUR BUSINESS 19
21153.04 27/04/12   Proof
Project
Heathrow Terminal 2A 
location 
London
Th E PORTf OlIO
Business Investment
u K investment was largely restricted to 
essential replacement and new financial 
systems. t he Company continues to invest in 
health and safety training and initiatives, both 
in our factories and for our project sites.
India
in the relatively short time since the plant in 
india was opened in november 2010 we 
have now clearly established strong 
foundations for a successful business 
capable of significant growth.
t he order mix in 2010 was reflective of our 
entry into a new market with a new offering 
and a steep learning curve with some 
complex work, which contributed to lower 
productivity and higher start-up losses than 
planned.
t he indian order book at £43m (march 
2012) covers almost all of our production 
plans for 2012 and is strong in terms of 
quality and importantly product mix. t he 
reduction in the size of the order book 
since november 2011 (£61m) is largely the 
result of a single contract cancellation which 
failed to conclude its project financing. t he 
pipeline of potential orders continues to 
grow with some £80m of good 
opportunities being identified.
as a result of these positive developments, 
we are now in a position to consider 
extending our production capacity in india 
and will be evaluating this further during the 
course of the first half of this financial year.
Copyright Balfour Beatty and produced with the permission of BAA plc 20 Severfield—Rowen Plc Annual Report 2011
21153.04 27/04/12   Proof
Corporate Social Responsibility
in our 2010 statement we outlined our 
intention to proactively implement our 
strategy for continuous improvement 
through our steel Futures programme.
in 2011 we have been pleased with the 
significant progress that has been made 
across all of our operating companies.
some highlights of progress are:
X X roll-out of the i Os H Directing safely to 
38 Operational Directors within the 
Group to help underpin the desired 
leadership behaviours.
X X t he roll-out of our Behavioural safety 
strategy through an innovative 
theatre-based learning programme. 
Working with our external consultants, 
the Group has engaged in excess of 
800 direct employees and subcontract 
supply chain.
X X t he implementation and communication 
of our Golden rules to help drive 
improved standards across all 
operations.
X X t he implementation of focused safety 
leadership reviews across key aspects of 
our business: Design, Construction and 
Factory operations.
X X improved engagement of our 
employees through Director safety 
briefings, staff surveys and effective 
communications.
X X a significant investment in improved 
technology and it solutions to maximise 
interaction, communication and team 
collaboration. t hrough our new 
Workspace platform where we expect to 
see significant efficiencies that will help 
drive improvements in the work/life 
balance for our employees.
X X t he external recognition from key 
clients of our in-house training company 
engineering Construction t raining Ltd 
(eCtL). t he development and 
application of new products to help 
reduce risk and improve safety 
standards within the Group.
X X Positive recognition of JsW severfield 
structures Ltd in india as being 
proactive in setting industry-leading 
standards and achieving client awards 
and commendations for our 
performance.
X X an intake of young apprentices to help 
sustain the skills necessary for the future 
success of the Group.
X X t he continued and sustained leadership 
position as the only steel fabrication 
contractor to have achieved the 
Breeam standard of B es 6001 for the 
responsible sourcing of materials.
We also have an ambitious plan for 2012 
and we expect to see further momentum as 
we continue our journey to be recognised 
as industry leaders.
Summary and Outlook
Given the uncertain economic outlook, the 
u K market is likely to remain extremely 
challenging. it is likely that more companies 
in our sector will exit their positions as 
pressures remain on their volumes, costs 
and cash. Overall, however, we believe that 
it is unlikely that the balance of supply and 
demand in the u K will worsen.
significant opportunities are evident for 
severfield–rowen Plc in several important 
sectors, including t ransport/a viation,  
Power/ energy, industrial, Commercial and 
others where the Group is well positioned to 
challenge and compete.
in india our joint venture is well established 
and has made progress in terms of 
operational outputs and market presence. in 
2012 we anticipate a positive return on our 
investment and will seek to grow our scale 
of operations further.
Overall the Group continues to perform  
in line with the Board’s expectations despite 
the challenging conditions in the u K, and 
we are encouraged by the competitive 
position of the business.
Chief executive’s review continued 21 OUR BUSINESS 21
21153.04 27/04/12   Proof
Project
Amex House  
location 
Brighton
Th E PORTf OlIO
