 6 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
CORE BUSINESSES AT A GLANCE
Severn Trent generates revenues of £2.0 billion and employs over 15,000
people across the UK, US and Europe. We are increasingly focused on the
industrial and commercial sectors to help business customers meet
environmental objectives.
Key strengths Business
.
Track record of outperforming
regulatory contract
.
Strong management structures and
cost controls
.
Good account management for
business customers
.
Excellent customer service, quality 
and biodiversity record
Severn Trent Water provides essential water and
sewerage services to around 3 million households
in England and Wales. It also provides products 
and services to business customers in its region. 
It has a good track record on service levels, gross
operating cost efficiencies and quality, and
environmental compliance.
For further information please visit
www.stwater.co.uk
.
Specialist fleet achieving high levels 
of fuel and operational efficiency
.
Over 30 landfill sites with good
geographic coverage and high
environmental standards 
.
Special waste solutions based on
innovation and new technologies
.
Strong IT infrastructure delivering
synergies and efficiencies 
.
Good strategic partnerships in recycling
Biffa is one of the UK’s largest integrated waste
management businesses, providing collection,
landfill and special waste services to local
authorities and industrial/commercial clients. 
It has around 90,000 customers, and an
infrastructure that includes 34 operational landfill
sites and 13 special waste treatment facilities. 
It also has 11 operational facilities in Belgium.
For further information please visit www.biffa.co.uk
.
Record of innovation and being at the
forefront of new markets
.
History of successful acquisitions and
organic growth
.
Reputation for good customer service
.
Client list of leading US and UK
companies
Severn Trent Laboratories (STL) is the largest
environmental testing company in the world,
providing environmental analysis services in 
the US and the UK. It has 31 laboratories and 
21 service centres in the US, and 4 laboratories 
and 1 service centre in the UK. 
For further information please visit 
www.stl-inc.com www.stl-analytical.co.uk
WATER
WASTE
LABORATORIES 7 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Performance highlights
.
Turnover up 4.2% at £956.7 million
.
Top-performing water and sewerage company in Ofwat’s 
latest Overall Performance Assessment
.
Total AMP3 gross operating efficiencies of some £69 million, 
£17 million more than Ofwat targets
.
Started £16 million programme to generate 13% 
of annual energy needs from renewable resources
Outlook
In December 2004, Ofwat will announce the final determination
of its AMP4 price review for the years 2005-2010. Until this is
finalised, there is some uncertainty about the outlook for all water
companies. However, Severn Trent Water is well on track to
outperform Ofwat’s AMP3 targets for the five year period to
2004/2005. It is also well positioned to benefit from the new
competition framework for large customers, which comes into
operation for 2005.
.
Turnover up 23.9% at £633.1 million
.
Acquisition of Hales strengthens position as one of the UK’s
largest waste management companies
.
Extended contracts with local authorities, working towards
achieving new recycling targets
.
Boosted capacity to generate power from landfill gas 
to around 90MW in the UK
Legislation and taxation will drive demand in the UK for
alternative methods of waste disposal in the UK. Aided by its
experience in Belgium, Biffa is in a strong position to capitalise
on this. Its expertise in special waste will also help it use the
openings created by the Landfill Directive in the UK.
.
In local currency, turnover in the US up some 8%, and in the
UK up 2% 
.
Acquisition of P&K, a microbiology business with a high profile
in the growing market for indoor air quality testing in the US
.
Acquisition of Aerotech strengthens presence in south-western
US, and puts STL at forefront of markets for indoor air quality,
food microbiology, and industrial hygiene
.
Opening of new service centres in US extends 
geographical strength
The STL strategy to be a leader in high-end markets continues 
to present new opportunities in emerging markets such as indoor
air quality and mould, food microbiology, endocrine disrupters,
and perchlorate testing. In the US, legislation concerning harbour
infrastructure and dredging cleanup also positions STL favourably
for the high growth market of sediments analysis. In the UK, EU
legislation like the Water Framework Directive, the Groundwater
Directive, and the Landfill Directive will create new openings 
for growth.
For information on our other businesses visit the 
following websites:
Severn Trent Services www.severntrentservices.com
Severn Trent Water International www.stwaterinternational.com
Severn Trent Systems www.aseriti.com / www.worksuite.com
Severn Trent Retail Services www.stretailservices.co.uk
Severn Trent Utility Services www.stutilityservices.co.uk
Severn Trent Property www.severntrentproperty.com
Charles Haswell and Partners www.haswell.co.uk
