 2 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
• Good full year results
• Increased overall profits from non-regulated businesses
• Severn Trent Water continues to outperform
Group profit before interest, tax, goodwill 
amortisation and exceptional items
*
up 7.5% at
£440.6 million
We have enhanced our dividend policy such 
that, barring unforeseen circumstances, full-year
dividends per share would be a minimum of
47.04p up to the end of the current review 
period in March 2005.
Business performance
Severn Trent produced a good performance in 2003/2004.
Excluding the impact of exchange rates, turnover rose in all the core
businesses of water, waste and laboratories. We have worked hard to
balance the expectations and needs of different parties – employees,
customers, investors, regulators and communities. Sound day-to-day
management is combined with a long-term commitment to
sustainability.
Much of our management focus over the year has concerned the
preparation of our draft and final AMP4 business plan for Ofwat,
setting out our proposed investment plans for 2005-2010. We are
confident in our ability to meet new targets for this period, just as 
we are confident that we will continue to outperform our AMP3
regulatory contract. In respect of 2002/2003 Severn Trent Water 
has the leading position in Ofwat’s Overall Performance Assessment
(OPA) of water and sewerage companies. Our charges are also
among the lowest in the UK and, under current plans, will be the
lowest by 2010.
Whilst developing the future strategy of our regulated business we
have pressed ahead with developing Biffa as one of the leading
waste management companies in the UK - the biggest event during
the year being the acquisition of the former Hales business.
Severn Trent Water and Biffa are sharing expertise and technology 
in wastewater disposal and energy generation; and Biffa is using
Severn Trent facilities in its important integrated management
contract for Leicester City Council. We expect such synergies to
create further opportunities in the future.
Services delivered good profits in 2003/2004. Severn Trent
Laboratories developed its capabilities in several new fields including
mould; Severn Trent Services benefited from the management
actions taken in 2002 in the Water Purification business.
Reflecting our commitment to environmental leadership, Severn
Trent was named as the leading utility in the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index for the third consecutive year. This is the first
time that any utility has won this category three times in a row.
Group results
Group turnover was £2,015 million, an increase of 8.8% over last
year. The turnover of the non-regulated businesses increased by
12.7% to £1,161 million, representing 54.8% of the Group total.
Turnover from water and sewerage increased by 4.2% to £957
million. Group profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items was up 7.5% to £441 million. The water and
sewerage business was up by 3.8% to £338 million. The Group’s
non-regulated businesses in total were up 18.1% to £123 million,
representing some 27% of the Group total.
Group profit before interest, tax and exceptional items was £411
million (£385 million). Group profit before interest and tax was 
£422 million (£344 million).
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 29.27 pence (28.56 pence)
to be paid on 1 October 2004. This would give a total dividend for
the year of 47.04 pence, an increase of 2.5%. It is the Board’s
intention that for the period up to 31 March 2005, barring
unforeseen circumstances, full year dividends per share would be 
a minimum of 47.04 pence.
For the period of AMP4 (from 1 April 2005), the outcome of the
AMP4 price review will be a critical input in the determination of the
Group’s dividend policy. Accordingly, the Board intends to consider
its dividend policy for the period from 1 April 2005 to 31 March
2010 following the finalisation of the AMP4 price review.
Based on SSAP24, the Group expects a significant additional pension
charge in 2004/2005 that is provisionally estimated to be of the
order of around £30 million to £35 million (net of amounts allocated
to own work capitalised), with broadly around two thirds to three
quarters of this amount expected to be attributable to Severn Trent
Water. However, given the preliminary nature of these estimates it is
*Goodwill amortisation £29.8 million and exceptional profits of £11.6 million. 3 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Marisa Cassoni stepped down as a pension trustee, and we are
grateful for her valuable contribution during a time of change in 
the pensions arena. I would also like to thank Martin Flower for 
his continuing work as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
and as Senior Independent Director.
I am sad to say that I shall be standing down as Chairman as of 
31 December 2004 after nearly nine years on the Board. I expect
my successor to be appointed well before then.
Naturally, my thanks must also go to the staff of Severn Trent
businesses all over the world. Our continuing ability to meet our
objectives and serve our stakeholders is due to their hard work,
commitment and levels of expertise. 
Outlook
Although the Group expects significant additional pension charges 
in 2004/2005, we consider that, overall, our core businesses –
Severn Trent Water, Biffa and Laboratories – in terms of experience,
market position, financial strength and reputation provide a good
platform for the future, with the Group well positioned to capitalise
on opportunities. Clearly, the future will also bring challenges. Sound
management and cost control will therefore remain a key element in
our strategy for consolidating our position as the UK’s leading
integrated environmental services business and increasing
shareholder value.
David Arculus
Chairman
quite possible that the actual additional pension charge, as a result of
these valuations, could be materially different from these estimates.
(See Financial Review – pensions.)
Management and staff
Robert Walker will reach retirement in February 2005, having
completed nearly six years as Group Chief Executive. His
contribution and legacy are considerable. 
We are delighted that Robert’s successor will be Colin Matthews 
who joined the Board as a non-executive director in October 2003.
Colin has already had a distinguished career at Transco, British
Airways and Hays where he has been Chief Executive for the last 
two years. We are very fortunate to have secured a man of his
talents as our leader for the next few years.
Alan Perelman will be retiring as Group Finance Director as of 31
August 2004 and will be replaced by Mark Wilson currently Director
of Finance and Regulation in Severn Trent Water. I would like to thank
Alan for his dedicated service and wish him well in his retirement.
Brian Duckworth has decided to stand down as Managing Director 
of Severn Trent Water and from the Severn Trent Plc Board at the end
of August but he will continue as an employee of the group until he
leaves in March 2005 thus ensuring his expertise is available to help
complete the regulatory process for the AMP4 review. Brian has
served Severn Trent for 30 years with distinction and we thank him
for his outstanding contributions to the group and the water industry,
not just in the Midlands but nationally and internationally as well.
Three new non executive directors, Martin Houston, Colin Matthews
and John Smith are already making a positive impact on the Board’s
work. We were sorry to lose Eric Anstee following his appointment as
Chief Executive of the Institute of Chartered Accountants. We thank
him for his contribution to the Board’s work, not least as outgoing
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
John Smith took over chairmanship of the Audit Committee from
Eric Anstee; the Environment Committee has been renamed the
Corporate Responsibility Committee to give a truer reflection of its
work, and from now on it will always be chaired by the Group Chief
Executive. The former chair, Derek Osborn, is still playing a leading
role on that committee.
