 The group’s core businesses – water,
waste and laboratories – all ﬁnished 
the year in robust shape with waste
and laboratories particularly well
positioned to take advantage of the
economic upturn whenever it comes.
Robert Walker
Group Chief Executive
’’
‘‘
Group Chief Executive’s review
£2 billion
Severn Trent Water continued to deliver
efﬁciencies against its £2 billion investment
programme for the ﬁve-year period 
2000/2001 to 2004/2005.
I am pleased to report a satisfactory set of
results achieved in what can be described 
as a difﬁcult year, with broadly unchanged
pricing in the water business and challenging
economic conditions in our main UK and 
US markets.
The group’s core businesses – water, waste
and laboratories – all ﬁnished the year in
robust shape with waste and laboratories 
particularly well positioned to take advantage
of the economic upturn, whenever it comes.
Management confronted problem areas and
has largely dealt with them. Agreement has
been reached with those customers in the
US over the Systems’ contracts that were 
in dispute; the Water Puriﬁcation Division 
of Services showed a strong improvement 
in the second half and Biffa Belgium had 
a signiﬁcantly better year.
And we have successfully targeted major
multi-year contracts in highly competitive
areas of our business.
Water
The water and sewerage business produced
another creditable performance, given broadly
unchanged pricing and continuing cost
pressures, which mostly offset the company’s
outperformance against regulatory targets
for gross operating cost efﬁciencies.
The business continues on track to outperform
its regulated targets, and indeed, to meet 
its own stretched targets. Gross operating
cost efﬁciencies amounted to £61 million 
per annum in 2002/2003. However, these
savings are being offset by cost pressures. 
That is why it is important to continue to 
look for new opportunities to make operating
cost savings.
Severn Trent Water continued to deliver
efﬁciencies against its £2 billion investment
programme for the ﬁve-year period 2000/2001
to 2004/2005 and is on track to deliver
average capex efﬁciencies of around 7% over
that period. I am pleased that the company
has achieved its best ever customer service
04 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 The water and sewerage business produced another
creditable performance, given broadly unchanged
pricing and continuing cost pressures. The markets
for Biffa and Services are expected to remain difﬁcult
into 2003/2004, though their leadership positions in
waste in the UK and in environmental testing in the
US and the UK should provide platforms for future
growth when the economic climate improves.
performance, as measured against the OFWAT
customer service standards.
In addition, of course, there are increased
costs that are speciﬁc to the water sector.
These formed the basis of our successful
IDOK application last Autumn and most 
of these costs were allowed.
The AMP4 pricing review process is now 
well under way.
While we are pleased with the Regulator’s
commitment to greater transparency in the
process and the considerable efforts he is
making with City and investor audiences, we
remain concerned about three central issues:
• The need to retain equity in the sector, both
as a source of capital and as an incentive
towards greater efﬁciency, is as critical 
as ever – it is the best way of ensuring
sustained investment and performance;
• There is still uncertainty about the 
varying demands of the quality regulators,
particularly the EA, around the capital
programme. We must have clear guidance
and coordination between the various
regulators;
• We need to improve the mechanics and
effectiveness of interim price determinates
between reviews. The objective should be 
to deal with material charges to company
obligations as and when they occur, leaving
companies in the same ﬁnancial position 
as if the charges had been foreseen during
the review.
Waste
The key theme for the whole year has been
lower industrial and commercial volumes,
resulting from the slowing down in the UK’s
manufacturing and commercial sectors. This
has impacted all three of Biffa’s UK divisions
– collection, landﬁll and special waste.
However, Biffa has delivered a solid
performance in difﬁcult market conditions,
particularly in the UK. Excluding the
contribution from foot-and-mouth, in
2001/2002 Biffa has produced a broadly 
ﬂat performance year on year.
We remain convinced of our analysis of
the attractiveness of the waste sector.
• The UK waste sector has the most 
potential for growth in Europe;
• Our integrated business model of
collection, landﬁll disposal and special
waste treatment is right for the future;
• Our focus on industrial and commercial
waste remains the right one;
• New municipal contracts combining
collection, recycling, treatment and 
disposal open up a signiﬁcant market
opportunity for Biffa.
I am conﬁdent Biffa will continue to be 
the benchmark waste operator in the UK.
Services
Severn Trent Laboratories (STL), performed
strongly throughout the year, delivering
organic growth in proﬁt before interest, tax
and goodwill amortisation of over 10%, and
is now well positioned to take advantage of
growth opportunities in new areas of testing.
Operating Services continued to add
proﬁtable new municipal outsourcing
businesses, although weaknesses remain 
in the smaller pipeline services businesses.
Reﬂecting management actions, Water
Puriﬁcation’s performance improved in 
the second half.
Severn Trent Water International (STWI),
improved proﬁtability in its Aquaﬁn
investment in Belgium and commenced 
work at Terni, the only privatised contract 
in Italy to start operations so far. 
Major long-term contracts
We have successfully bid for long-term
contracts amounting to more than £1 billion
in revenues.
• A contract to operate a strategic
partnership with Solihull Metropolitan
Borough Council. This is worth £750 million
in revenues over the next 15 years, and is
due to be signed in the Autumn of 2003;
• The integrated City of Leicester waste
contract, producing revenues of £300 million
over 25 years.
In addition, we have been shortlisted to the
ﬁnal two on long-term contracts with the
Ministry of Defence (£1 billion revenues) 
and another integrated waste contract.
These all demonstrate the group’s abilities 
to bring resources together from all our
companies to compete for valuable long-
term business.
Core businesses
Our core businesses of water, waste and 
laboratories have four basic advantages:
• Leadership, scale and low cost advantage;
• Among the best management teams in
each sector;
• Consistent strong past performance;
• Long-term opportunities for proﬁtable growth.
These will stand us in good stead as we face
up to another testing year in 2003/2004
with conﬁdence and commitment.
People
None of what I have reported would 
have been possible without the excellent
performance of our staff throughout this
year. I am grateful for the resourcefulness
and enthusiasm shown by employees in 
the face of continual challenge.
Outlook
Overall, the group is likely to experience
another challenging year in 2003/2004.
Severn Trent Water will beneﬁt from the
outcome of the IDOK and is expected to
continue to outperform its regulatory 
targets for gross operating cost efﬁciencies.
However offsetting cost pressures are
expected to grow. In addition, increases in
depreciation are also expected, reﬂecting 
the growing capital expenditure programme.
The markets for Biffa and Services are
expected to remain difﬁcult into 2003/2004,
though their leadership positions in waste 
in the UK and in environmental testing in 
the US and the UK should provide platforms
for future growth when the economic climate
improves.
05 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
