 Group Chief Executive’s review
Strategic overview
When I took over as Group Chief Executive in
February 2005 I said I would concentrate on
operational improvements for all our businesses,
but particularly Severn Trent Water and Biffa as
they account for some 96% of group proﬁt.
Since then my new team and I have undertaken
the most detailed examination of all aspects of 
our activities to understand the business drivers 
so we can be certain of the foundations of our
future direction.
Focus on water
Severn Trent Water is one of the country’s largest
water and sewerage companies. The company 
has great experience and strengths, along with
important plans for improvement. By concentrating
our efforts on raising standards across the entire
business, customers will receive the beneﬁts of
reliable, high quality and cost effective services 
for clean water and sewerage. 
In addition these strategic changes, particularly 
the demerger of Biffa, will support a more efﬁcient
balance sheet allowing a return of capital to
shareholders. We intend to increase group debt 
to 60% of regulated capital value as soon as
practicable after the demerger. The amount,
mechanism and timing of any returns will be
communicated in due course and will depend on
future decisions around the debt structure of the
demerged Biffa, pension fund contributions and
ﬁnal costs of the demerger. 
Moreover, these improvements should lead to strong
ﬁnancial returns. We believe the group will be able
to deliver enhanced growth in dividends, and our
new policy will therefore be to increase dividends
by 3% above RPI inﬂation through the remainder
of the current AMP4 period, that is until 2010.
Biffa
The most signiﬁcant transaction required to achieve
this group transformation is the demerger of Biffa,
which was separately announced on 4 April 2006.
Biffa is itself a leading business in an attractive
market, and we believe that greater shareholder
value will be realised by the creation of a separately
listed company, focusing all its attention on
developing the waste management business. 
In 2005/06, organic growth within Biffa has been
re-ignited and we believe the prospects for the
business are strong. We have recently announced
Bob Davies as the new chairman for Biffa and we
expect the demerger to be completed by the end of
October 2006. We will provide further details in
due course. 
Other businesses
US Laboratories is no longer regarded as being 
a core business for the future. US Laboratories 
is a strong, market leading company engaged in
environmental testing. The long term prospects for
market growth are good, although the last 2 years
have been challenging. We are conﬁdent that the
ﬁrm actions already in hand will lead to a recovery
in margins, and as we see these results being
achieved we will consider the appropriate actions
to realise shareholder value.
The group announced on 12 May that Biffa Belgium
has been sold to Veolia for €45 million. Completion
of this sale is expected by the end of June and is
subject to Belgian competition clearance.
Certain other smaller activities have either 
already been closed to new business (Haswell), 
sold (Aseriti) or are being prepared for sale 
(Severn Trent Property).
Being closely associated with water, UK Laboratories
and Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services will
remain part of the group. Together these business
account for some 3% of group proﬁt.
Severn Trent post demerger
After the demerger Severn Trent will be a focused
water group, generating more than 95% of group
proﬁts, compared with less than 80% today.
It will be the second largest listed UK player in the
water industry whose investment proﬁle will generate
expectations of growth and attractive returns.
Severn Trent management will be able to focus on
the regulated water and sewerage business.
There will still be other businesses in the group which
do have synergies with our core water operations.
We shall keep Severn Trent Laboratories UK. There
are few competitors capable of supplying Severn
Trent Water with the necessary high quality testing
service so it is felt appropriate to retain the business.
Our Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
business, which includes a UK contract for managing
Ministry of Defence sites, is proﬁtable, growing and
improving, and has signiﬁcant synergy with the
water business and, as it is relatively small, it will
not distract management from a focus on water.
The creation of a new strategy will allow us to
increase our gearing to a more ﬁnancially efﬁcient
level while still remaining prudent with an eye on
regulatory developments into the next AMP period
in 2010 and beyond.
Direction
6 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Colin Matthews
Group Chief Executive Direction
Health and safety
I deeply regret to report two fatalities; a Biffa
contractor was hit by a Biffa vehicle and a Biffa
employee was struck by a car. Biffa management
has implemented the most rigorous investigation
across all its operations as a result, with an
independent audit, and has made signiﬁcant
changes to reduce the possibility of such 
incidents happening again.
Overall the Severn Trent group reported a 27.5%
reduction in the RIDDOR reportable incident rate
per 1,000 employees.
Not only is safety important in its own right but it
is also important as a broad indication of quality
across the group. We will continue to concentrate
heavily on improving our safety performance.
Water and Sewerage
In 2005/06 Severn Trent Water began the ﬁrst year
of the AMP4 contract, which covers the period
2005-10. Ofwat has set us exacting efﬁciency
targets for this period, and during the year we
began to implement the organisational changes
necessary to achieve them.
Progress was good. We reduced employee numbers;
removed management layers in order to improve
information ﬂow; reviewed and consolidated ofﬁce
accommodation in order to control overheads; and
began a programme to streamline our procurement
process. 
We aimed to meet the Ofwat determination overall,
getting our costs down to the Ofwat proﬁle in two
years. Excluding energy costs we have done rather
better than that. However, the current outlook for
energy has more than offset that advantage. We will
be striving to get back in line with the Ofwat proﬁle.
Capital expenditure is more positive. Capex and
infrastructure renewals amounted to £434 million.
Adjusting for changes agreed with Ofwat, and
timing differences, we have generated
approximately 6% efﬁciency over and above the
determination. We plan to maintain similar out-
performance over the rest of AMP4.
Waste Management
Biffa worked in 2005/06 on a major review of how
the UK waste market is developing and Biffa’s
position within it, as part of the demerger preparation.
We have a competitive advantage in the industrial
and commercial collection market, a good position
in landﬁll, and excellent special waste capabilities
through our treatment centres. Biffa has the
potential to develop recycling revenues signiﬁcantly.
Biffa enjoys a leading position in a dynamic market
place. I suggested a target of 8% for renewed
organic growth six months ago, I am pleased 
that the result, 11%, comfortably beats that.
Biffa has a sustainable strong position within the
waste industry. We shall use our scale in Collection
to deliver improving service and efﬁciencies. We
can develop recycling opportunities as the market
evolves while carefully managing our pricing and
capacity in Landﬁll.
Having spent more time in Biffa than when I ﬁrst
reported last year, I am convinced that there is a
great opportunity to bring about the same ‘process
improvement’ revolution that worked through
factory environments over recent decades and is
now revolutionising service industries.
Laboratories
Severn Trent Laboratories provides environmental
testing services in the US and the UK. In the US,
market conditions were challenging in 2005/06.
Federal funding for environmental projects
continued to be impacted by the diversion of funds
to military activities in Iraq and to hurricane relief. 
In the UK, market conditions were more favourable,
with legislation like the Landﬁll Directive creating
new business opportunities.
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
The business produced good results in 2005/06,
increasing turnover and proﬁts. We maintained our
strategy of concentrating on higher margin business
and growth markets.
Environment
I am pleased that the group’s climate change
programme has continued to develop over the 
last 12 months. We have continued to expand
renewable energy generation within both Severn
Trent Water and Biffa and in July 2005, working
with the Carbon Trust, we published a Carbon
Management Report which investigated the 
long term challenges and opportunities that 
climate change presents for the UK water 
and waste industries.
Outlook
Performance at Severn Trent Water has been 
good in the ﬁrst year of AMP4, with operating 
costs reduced to within £4 million of the Ofwat
determination. The outlook for the coming year is
for continuing progress in meeting and improving
on the AMP4 contract for operating costs across
most areas of performance, with an additional 
£5 million to £10 million of savings identiﬁed.
However, the industry faces a signiﬁcant challenge
with rising energy prices. At present, the outlook 
for energy prices in 2006/07 mean that increased
costs in this area are expected to impact Severn
Trent Water by around £25 million. In relation to
capital expenditure, we aim to maintain around 
6% efﬁciency out performance over the remaining
AMP4 period.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  7
