 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 02
SEVERN TRENT PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
Business performance
We announced in January 2005 that Severn
Trent Water would accept Ofwat’s Final Price
Determination for 2005-2010. This is the
single most important event for the group 
in 2004/2005.
Ofwat’s final AMP4 Determination allows
Severn Trent Water to raise prices by 24%
before inflation, equivalent to around £53 
per property over the five year period. Even
after this rise, Severn Trent Water’s average
household bills will remain among the lowest
in its sector.
The efficiency targets set by Ofwat are
extremely challenging. The Determination
includes a reduction in the allowance for
capital maintenance costs, particularly in
respect of mains renewal, and a reduction 
in the costs allowed for alternative sludge
disposal methods. The Determination includes
sufficient costs to fund only half of Severn
Trent Water’s pension deficit.
In addition, there remain other areas 
such as electricity costs, business rates and
operational areas where the Determination
allows for smaller cost increases than are
forecast in the company plan.
Severn Trent Water is already performing 
at or close to Ofwat’s operating and capital
efficiency frontiers. We want to continue this
so plans are being put in place to maintain
Severn Trent Water as one of the most efficient
companies in the water sector, in terms of
both operating costs and capital investment.
We are determined to improve our
performance to meet all these challenges.
While much of our management focus has
been concerned with the Ofwat Determination,
we have continued to develop our waste
management company, Biffa, into a leading
integrated waste management company.
We have achieved scale in the important
Industrial/Commercial collection area where
we are the largest UK operator. We have
control over disposal through having a large
landfill operation, probably joint second in
terms of void space, together with a number
of strategic alliances to take recovered
materials. We have excellent special waste
capabilities through our treatment centres.
No other company has these combined
strengths in the UK.
New legislation and increased landfill tax will
impact on all aspects of Biffa’s business. But
changes in legislation also create new
business opportunities in pre-treatment,
special waste and integrated waste
management. With the Hales integration now
complete, Biffa is in a good position to
maximise these opportunities and to develop
good organic growth going forward.
Severn Trent Laboratories, the world’s
leading environmental testing company, has
experienced extremely challenging market
conditions in the US.
Legislation and public concern will drive the
growth of markets like indoor air quality, food
microbiology, endocrine disrupters, and
perchlorate testing. STL has put in place the
expertise and facilities to keep it at the
forefront of these and other emerging
markets.
The Water purification and operating services
business continues to perform well. Head-
quartered in the US, it supplies technology and
expertise to private and public sector clients
all over the world. The water purification
market will continue to grow and our strong
market position and brand recognition will
enable us to compete vigorously.
This business exploits technology and
capability from our UK water expertise so is
attractive to Severn Trent going forward.
Corporate responsibility
Severn Trent was named as the leading utility
in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the
fourth consecutive year. This is the first time
Severn Trent produced satisfactory results overall in
2004/2005. Excluding the impact of exchange rates,
turnover rose in all the main businesses of water and
sewerage, waste management, laboratories and water
purification and operating services. that any utility has won this category four
times in a row.
Severn Trent’s award was made after 
an assessment of the quality of our
management and performance in terms of
integrating economic, environmental and
social considerations into business strategies,
while continuing to enhance competitiveness
and brand reputation.
Our businesses are one of the UK’s largest
managers of ‘renewable carbon’ which is
biodegradable waste and sewage sludge, 
that can be utilised to generate renewable
electricity. We handle approximately 12% 
of the UK’s waste renewable carbon
(excluding agriculture).
In 2004/2005 we generated around 690
GWh of renewable electricity which equates
to 5% of the UK’s renewable electricity.
Group results 
Overall, the Severn Trent group has delivered
a satisfactory performance in 2004/2005,
with group profit before tax, goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items at £262.2
million, a decrease of 3.8% after incremental
pension charges of £31.3 million. Group
profit before tax and exceptional items was
£232.1 million (£242.8 million) and group
profit before tax was £217.3 million 
(£254.4 million).
The Board is proposing a final dividend of
30.30p (29.27p) to be paid on 31 August
2005. This would give a total dividend for 
the year of 48.51p, an increase of 3.1%.
Management and staff
As you know, I succeeded David Arculus as
Chairman of Severn Trent Plc on 1 January
2005. I am delighted to take up my role as
Chairman as I regard Severn Trent as one of
the best managed companies in the utility
sector.
John Banyard, executive Director of Severn
Trent Water with responsibility for asset
management, also retired at the end of
December 2004. We thank him for 
38 years of service and wish him well. 
He certainly deserves his OBE for services 
to the water industry and to engineering.
I am extremely grateful to Martin Flower, senior
independent non-executive Director, who
agreed to become Deputy Chairman from 6
July 2004 to ensure continuity on the Board
and support for our new management team.
Colin Matthews arrived in September 2004
as Acting Managing Director of Severn Trent
Water and took over as Group Chief Executive
on 1 February 2005, on the retirement of
Robert Walker.
Colin’s wide experience with America’s
General Electric Company, British Airways,
Transco and Hays means we have appointed
a first class individual with an engineering
and operational background who can build
on the success of our businesses. We are
fortunate to have him lead our group.
As indeed we are with Tony Wray, who joined
the Board as Managing Director of Severn
Trent Water on 7 March 2005 from Eircom,
having been previously Director Asset
Management and then National Operations
Director, Transco.
We also welcomed Rachel Brydon Jannetta
and Mark Wilson to the Board in September
2004. Rachel is President and CEO of Severn
Trent Laboratories, based in the US. Mark is
Group Finance Director, having been Finance
and Regulation Director in Severn Trent
Water.
Since my appointment as Chairman, we have
carried out a rigorous Board effectiveness
review with the help of independent
consultants, which has generated a number
of actions to secure improvements to Board
performance.
Although I am relatively new to Severn Trent 
I have discovered already that there is a
dedicated and highly trained staff whose
hard work and commitment ensures we 
have the ability to achieve our objectives.
Outlook
The finalisation of the AMP4 Determination
provides greater certainty for Severn Trent
Water going forward and sets challenging 
but clear financial and service targets, which
the company is well positioned to deliver.
Biffa anticipates organic growth within 
the competitive waste sector in the UK 
as a result of its technology, its scale and
through new opportunities driven by waste
legislation. Reduced federal spending on 
the environment is expected to continue the
difficult market conditions for Laboratories 
in the US in 2005/2006. The UK market 
for Laboratories is expected to remain 
strong. The Services business is expected 
to continue to grow in line with favourable
market conditions.
The objective over the next five years is to
ensure customers in the group’s regulated
and non-regulated businesses get the
benefits of high quality and cost effective
services while ensuring that investors receive
an appropriate return.
The Board of Severn Trent Plc intends to
maintain, as a minimum, group dividends 
in real terms at least up to 2009/2010. 
Our shareholders can be confident in this 
as a dividend ‘floor’ for the next five years. 
Our objective is, of course, to do better 
with real growth over the AMP4 period.
Sir John Egan
Chairman
SEVERN TRENT PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 03
