 Chairman’s statement
We have unveiled a new comprehensive strategy 
for the Severn Trent group of companies which 
will have at its heart a focus on water.
Our UK integrated waste management business,
Biffa, is to be demerged from the Severn Trent group
of companies, subject to shareholder approval.
The board of Severn Trent Plc ﬁrmly believes 
that the creation of two separate listed companies,
Severn Trent Plc and Biffa Plc, each with dedicated
boards and experienced management teams
focused on continued strategic and operational
development with access to their own capital, will
deliver greater beneﬁts to shareholders, customers
and employees.
Following the proposed demerger Severn Trent Plc
is expected to remain the UK’s second largest listed
water company and a constituent of the FTSE 100,
continuing to focus on delivering investment
programmes, improving efﬁciencies and customer
service levels.
Our strategy also means that Severn Trent 
Laboratories US is no longer considered a 
core activity so we shall look to improve its
business performance while we consider how to
best realise its value for shareholders. Severn Trent
Laboratories UK will remain in the group as it plays 
an important role working with Severn Trent Water.
Our Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
business, while a small proportion of the group, 
is proﬁtable and growing and has synergy with our
water business so will be allowed to develop under
close management and tight budgetary control.
Our new strategy also allows us to become more
ﬁnancially efﬁcient by increasing our debt to
regulated capital value ratio to 60% by 2010, 
the start of the next regulatory review period.
We also expect to return cash to shareholders, 
the amount and timing of which is still to be
determined.
Our Chief Executive, Colin Matthews, outlines in the
next two pages the reasons behind our new strategy.
Group results
Overall, the Severn Trent group has delivered 
an encouraging performance in 2005/06, with
group proﬁt from continuing operations before 
tax, IAS 39 fair value adjustments and exceptional
items at £322.4 million, an increase of 39.5% 
and group proﬁt from continuing operations 
before tax was £270.0 million (£228.8 million), 
an increase of 18%.
The board is proposing a ﬁnal dividend of 
31.97 pence (30.30 pence) to be paid on 
2 August 2006. This would give a total dividend 
for the year of 51.13 pence, an increase of 5.4%.
Corporate responsibility
Our ambition is to make Severn Trent the best
water company in the UK and restore the trust 
of our customers and Ofwat. We are determined 
that the unacceptable mistakes of 2000-2004,
however caused, will not be repeated.
We have accepted the conclusions of Ofwat’s interim
report concerning allegations of false reporting
made against Severn Trent Water in 2004.
Ofwat’s interim report found that we had
overcharged our customers during 2004/05 
and had set prices too high for 2005/10.
Our internal investigations and Ofwat’s
investigations have been thorough and lengthy,
requiring complex judgements. Our judgements
have not been identical to Ofwat’s in every aspect,
but in the interests of making amends as soon as
possible, we concluded it was sensible to proceed
by agreement, and have apologised unreservedly.
Having considered Ofwat’s ﬁndings, we agreed 
that customer accounts should be credited as 
soon as possible and bills altered appropriately 
in subsequent years.
As the Ofwat report acknowledges, the board of
Severn Trent Plc and the new senior management
team started in 2004 to make major changes to
organisation structure, to people and to processes
and controls. The intense drive to improve Severn
Trent Water will continue to be a top priority 
for its new Managing Director, Tony Wray, and 
his management team as well as for myself, 
Colin Matthews and the rest of the Severn 
Trent Plc board.
Direction
4 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Sir John Egan
Chairman Direction
As a result of a referral by Ofwat, the Serious 
Fraud Ofﬁce is undertaking a criminal investigation
into alleged reporting irregularities made to Ofwat
by Severn Trent Water between 2000 and 2003
concerning leakage. Severn Trent is supporting
Ofwat in its review of these allegations and will 
co-operate fully with the Serious Fraud Ofﬁce.
We acknowledge that Ofwat may expect further
amends to be made to customers. Ofwat has stated
that this penalty will be discussed with Severn
Trent Water on completion of the Serious Fraud
Ofﬁce investigation into leakage.
The board has also provided Ofwat with an interim
report into the misreporting of customer relations
data over several years.
We will co-operate fully with Ofwat to restore
conﬁdence in Severn Trent Water going forward.
We have taken, and will continue to take, all actions
we think appropriate to ensure the maintenance of
both high ethical and professional standards and
resilient and effective controls throughout all group
companies.
Board, management and staff
John McAdam, a non-executive director, stepped
down from the board in September 2005 after ﬁve
years of valued service for which I thank him.
Derek Osborn, a non-executive director, retired 
from the board in March 2006, after seven years 
of valuable contributions, particularly concerning
environmental issues and I wish him well.
Martin Flower, senior independent non-executive
director and Deputy Chairman, stood down from
the board in June after ten years’ service. I am
extremely grateful for his support, particularly in
ensuring continuity on the board and support for
our new management team.
Mark Wilson, Group Finance Director, stood 
down from the board in December 2005 after 
ten years at the heart of three regulatory reviews. 
I am grateful to Mark for his contribution to the
group’s success.
Mark’s successor as Group Finance Director, 
Mike McKeon, joined us in December 2005.
Formerly Group Finance Director of Novar Plc, 
the building materials group, Mike worked with
Rolls Royce Plc and has had extensive international
business experience for CarnaudMetalbox, 
Elf Atochem and Price Waterhouse.
We also welcomed two new non-executive 
directors, Richard Davey and Bernard Bulkin, 
from January 2006.
Richard, a former Head of Investment Banking for
NM Rothschild & Sons, is a non-executive director
of Yorkshire Building Society and Amlin Plc. He 
was appointed senior independent non-executive
director and chairman of the Remuneration
Committee with effect from 11 June 2006.
Bernard is chairman of AEA Technology Plc 
and is a Commissioner on the UK Sustainable
Development Commission. He retired from 
BP Plc as Chief Scientist in 2003.
Fiona Smith joined as General Counsel and
Company Secretary in February 2006, having been
General Counsel for Transport for London and
previously the National Grid Group. She replaced
Peter Davies who retired with our best wishes.
We again carried out rigorous board effectiveness
reviews with the help of independent consultants,
which have generated a number of actions to
secure improvements to board performance.
I would also thank our dedicated and hard working
staff whose commitment during a particularly
intense year has ensured we continue to achieve
our business objectives.
Outlook
Our objective over the next four years is to ensure
customers in our water businesses get the beneﬁts
of high quality and cost effective services while
ensuring investors receive an appropriate return.
We believe that the newly focused water group 
will be able to pay a progressive dividend as a
consequence.
Our dividend policy will therefore be to increase
dividends by 3% above RPI inﬂation until 2010.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  5
