 Introduction
During a turbulent economic and political
year, Severn Trent was a haven of stability 
for investors. Against a background of a fall
of around 30% in the FTSE All-Share Index,
our share price remained relatively stable. 
In addition, our shares delivered one of 
the higher dividend yields in the index.
We made a clear statement that it is the
Board’s intention that for the period up 
to 31 March 2005, barring unforeseen
circumstances, full year dividends per share
would be a minimum of 45.9p (this being
the full year dividend for 2001/2002). In 
line with our longer-term goals of delivering
attractive yields and sustainable dividends,
we also worked to grow the business.
Business performance
To achieve continued stability, Severn Trent
concentrated on further reducing the risks
facing the company and our investors. 
In 2002/2003, we strengthened our focus 
on our core business areas of water, waste,
and laboratories. 
Our organisational and ﬁnancial management
systems are designed to help protect us from
risk. In particular, Severn Trent’s mixed equity
and debt model is, we believe, the best way to
provide continued investment for the water
industry. However, the regulatory regime
must allow an adequate rate of return and
encourage management incentives. Severn
Trent Water’s debt was 49.5% of regulatory
capital value, at 31 March 2003.
The Severn Trent Water team convinced 
the regulator, OFWAT, to allow us to recover
some of the growing cost pressures on the
company by increasing charges. As a result,
water bills will rise slightly above the rate 
of inﬂation for the next two years. This will
mean that prices to customers are still below
those in 2000, the beginning of the last
regulatory review.
Contributing to Severn Trent’s drive for growth
is a move towards public sector contracts.
We were named as preferred bidder for a
Group turnover was up 3.2% at 
£1,852.0 million
‘‘
Chairman’s statement
02 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
We made a clear statement that for
the period up to 31 March 2005,
barring unforeseen circumstances,
full year dividends per share would
be a minimum of 45.9p. In line with
our longer-term goals of delivering
attractive yields and sustainable
dividends, we also worked to grow
the business.
David Arculus
Chairman
’’ substantial long-term strategic partnership
with Solihull Metropolitan Borough Council.
In our non-regulated businesses, Biffa won a
signiﬁcant contract to manage the collection,
recycling and disposal of waste for Leicester
City Council. 
In Severn Trent Services, our successful
Laboratories operation, STL, strengthened
their suite of water, ground and air testing
products, growing their proﬁts organically by
over 10%. Severn Trent Water International,
led by Tony Hill, recently awarded an MBE,
continued to pursue opportunities in the 
UK, Belgium, Italy and further aﬁeld.
Group results
Group turnover was £1,852.0 million, up 3.2%.
The non-regulated businesses increased
turnover by 5.0% to £1,030.6 million.
Turnover from water and sewerage increased
by 2.0% to £917.9 million.
Goodwill amortisation was £25.2 million
(£26.5 million). There was a net exceptional
charge in the year of £40.8 million 
(£17.0 million).
Group proﬁt before interest, tax, goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items was 
2.1% lower at £409.8 million. The water 
and sewerage business was down by 
2.6% to £325.5 million reﬂecting the tight
regulatory determination whilst the group’s
non-regulated businesses were up 3.7% to
£104.5 million, representing 24.3% of the
group total.
Group proﬁt before interest, tax and
exceptional items was £384.6 million
(£392.3 million). Group proﬁt before interest
and tax was £343.8 million (£375.3 million).
After interest charges of £159.4 million,
group proﬁt before tax, goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items was 3.6% lower 
at £250.4 million. Group proﬁt before tax
and exceptional items was £225.2 million
(£233.3 million), a reduction of 3.5%. 
Group proﬁt before tax was £184.4 million
(£216.3 million).
Corporate social responsibility
Severn Trent is committed to high standards
of corporate governance. We are actively
involved in the debate surrounding the 
Higgs Report into the role of non-executive
Directors, which was published following
recent, high-proﬁle corporate failures. 
While many of the Higgs recommendations
are sound, we feel that the report is too
prescriptive and we are articulating our
concerns in the hope of achieving a sensible
conclusion to the debate. 
Severn Trent aims to achieve high
environmental and social standards. 
We were ranked top of our sector in the 
Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the
second consecutive year. 
Biffa is recognised as making a substantial
and positive contribution to the national
environmental debate as well as boosting
sustainability through its landﬁll gas 
to energy projects. During 2002/2003, 
our landﬁll tax credit scheme, Biffaward,
which recycles landﬁll tax credits, provided
£17 million for environmental and
community projects.
Through our group community affairs
programme we have 11 long-term
partnerships with Midlands’ charities. 
Many of our employees have given their 
own time to help community projects.
Employee volunteering is now being used 
by many businesses within the group as a
way of enhancing and introducing new skills
to employees. We are a founding member
of ‘Birmingham Cares’ which delivers
volunteering opportunities in Birmingham.
We are also members of Business in the
Community’s PerCent Club, by virtue of
investing more than 1% of our pre-tax 
proﬁts in the community.
Management and staff
Our Board and top management team
remained unchanged during the year,
bringing stability and consistency of vision
and strategy. 
However, Clare Tritton has now decided to
stand down as a non-executive Director after
almost 12 years and I would like to thank 
her for her outstanding contribution to the
Board. Eric Anstee took over the Chairmanship
of the Audit Committee and Marisa Cassoni
succeeded him as Chairman of the Treasury
Committee.
My greatest thanks, however, must go to 
our hard working staff in the UK, US, Europe
and other parts of the world, who once again
worked tirelessly to achieve our business
goals and uphold our reputation for both
service delivery and environmental concern.
Our continuing success will be due to their
skill and dedication.
Outlook
There are signiﬁcant opportunities for the
group, particularly from the increasing pace
of legislation in the waste sector, with Biffa
well positioned to take advantage of growing
demand for predisposal treatment and sorting. 
Growing synergies between our water and waste
companies will lead to future opportunities. 
A signiﬁcant proportion of Severn Trent
Water’s income comes from processing
waste products and we see considerable
scope for sharing expertise and technology.
In the current ﬁnancial year our key virtues of
integrity, consistent performance and sound
management will be more important than ever
given the continuing economic challenges.
Looking further ahead, the dual drivers of
increasing environmental legislation and
greater understanding of the water industry’s
investment needs offer further growth
opportunities.
The group’s strategy continues to be to
increase shareholder value by establishing
Severn Trent as the UK’s leading integrated
environmental services business. Management
aims to build on the group’s leadership
positions in the UK waste market and in
environmental testing in the USA and the 
UK, with Severn Trent Water continuing 
to outperform its regulatory targets.
There are signiﬁcant opportunities for the group,
particularly from the increasing pace of legislation 
in the waste sector, with Biffa well positioned to 
take advantage of growing demand for predisposal
treatment and sorting. 
Turnover by business
% of group total in 2002/2003
1 Water
2 Waste
3 Services
4 Others
47% £917.9m
26% £510.9m
20% £385.4m
  7% £134.3m
1
2
3
4
03 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
