 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 04
My team and I are highly focused on improving
operational performance. Indeed, we are already
analysing and scrutinising all our businesses in
greater detail both to ensure continual improvement,
but also to be certain we can demonstrate their value
to the group as a whole going forward.
SEVERN TRENT PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
Severn Trent is a successful group 
with tremendous strengths and great
opportunities – that is my clear conclusion
after four months as Group Chief Executive
and nine months as an executive Director.
For five months, from September 2004, 
I focused exclusively on Severn Trent Water
which after all accounts for around 77% 
of our profits. Since becoming Group CEO 
I have been immersed in all the businesses
in the group.
As a result I am able now to lay out the two
top priorities for our company both of which
are operational.
The first is to deliver and hopefully beat the
operational performance required by the
regulatory settlement for Severn Trent Water
from 2005-2010.
The second is to build on our waste company’s
operational success story by re-focusing on
organic growth and return on investment.
Improving operational performance goes
hand in hand with improving financial
performance. There is a false argument
which implies that the way to achieve cost
reduction is to cut corners and reduce
standards. I believe the opposite, the way to
secure cost reduction is to raise professional
standards across the whole organisation.
However good we become in health and
safety, quality or environmental performance,
we must always have an ambition to get
better. As we get the processes in place to
raise these professional standards then our
financial performance will also improve.
Health and safety
We have established three key health and
safety principles for all employees:
> If a job cannot be done safely, don’t do it
> Always look for safety hazards
> Never ignore a safety hazard; fix it or
report it
I deeply regret to report one employee
fatality this year where a Biffa refuse collector
was hit by a reversing vehicle. As with any
serious accident we have undertaken a
rigorous investigation and audit to reduce
the possibility of this, or any similar incident,
happening in future.
Overall the group recorded a RIDDOR
Reportable Incident Rate of 22.93 per 
1,000 employees; this represents a 4%
improvement rate on last year’s figure. 
We are looking to accelerate the rate of
improvement in this and future years.
Water and sewerage
In 2004/2005 we completed the AMP3
programme, reaching the Ofwat targets and
outperforming them in many cases. We were
among the leading water and sewerage
companies in Ofwat’s overall performance
and relative efficiency assessments.
The challenge now is to at least deliver 
the performance required by the Price
Determination agreed in January 2005. 
We have already streamlined the top
management structure to achieve a
shortening of the lines of communication
from the top to the bottom to continue to
drive efficiencies through the organisation.
Operational efficiencies will be achieved in
the following ways: 
Headcount reduction: We cannot deliver
operational efficiencies without reducing
employee numbers within the group, largely
through improved technology. There are
three particular areas in which we continue to
invest: replacing back office systems around
financing and purchasing; continuing to
upgrade our customer interface systems; and
maintaining, but also improving, our capability
to manage our remote sites automatically.
Overheads: We can reduce our property
costs by consolidating office accommodation
and depots. Procurement: We are reducing the number
of suppliers and working with them in a
more intense and collaborative way, taking
cost out of the total system and sharing the
benefits with them. This is in contrast to
expending more energy in determining who
pays than in reducing cost. 
Our capital expenditure amounts to a total of
£2.6 billion over the five year period. There
are some 900 significant projects, a huge
programme for us to manage. We are looking
to work with 20 named key contractors
reduced from 50 in the past.
We shall:
> Standardise designs as far as we can, 
not just whole plants but also elements
within the plants
> Invest in preparation work in order to
reduce the cost of the delivery
> Ensure good discipline around ‘design
freeze’ and establish target pricing
We are also looking to make sure that our
suppliers are incentivised financially to drive
for continuous improvement and that they,
like us, are motivated on an “RPI minus”
type incentive arrangement. 
Other industries have already demonstrated
the value of implementing these procurement
principles.
Waste management
Biffa’s growth represents a real success story
in terms of acquiring UK Waste, then Hales,
and successfully integrating them. Equally,
the marketplace in which Biffa has been
operating has been flat overall and the bulk
of Biffa’s recent growth has been from the
acquisition of Hales. Therefore the question
of organic growth is important.
We believe that the myriad of regulatory
developments which are scheduled year in
year out for the next five years are going to
drive opportunities for revenue growth. This
is a marketplace which is going to favour the
bigger players in this industry and we are
determined to benefit.
Biffa’s management achieved healthy organic
turnover growth throughout the 1990s. More
recently, the UK Waste and Hales acquisitions
have accounted for a more substantial part
of Biffa’s turnover growth. That is why the
two key challenges for us within Biffa are to
re-establish a focus on organic growth and 
to improve the return on investment.
Laboratories
The business in the US operated in a difficult
market last year. There has been a significant
reduction in return on total investment in the
course of the year, which we must confront.
One particularly key initiative is to replace 
a number of laboratory information
management systems with a single standard
system that covers the whole network.
Customers buy not simply tests, but also 
data. Customers want that data with faster
turn round times and standardised reporting 
and they want to be able to transfer and 
use data in their own systems. Having
different IT systems in our laboratories 
is an impediment to exploiting our scale. 
The first five laboratories already have 
the new system up and running and it is
currently being debugged. It will be rolled 
out to the others in the course of the next 
12 months. In 2006/2007 we expect to 
see significant operational improvements 
from this new system.
Water purification and operating services
This business includes the Water Purification
business, the Contract Operations business,
Severn Trent Water International and the
smaller Metering Services and Pipeline
Services businesses.
The simplification of these activities in recent
years has stabilised the business and in the
last couple of years we have seen a gradual
improvement in returns. Although this is of 
a modest scale, this is a business which is
closely related to Water in the UK. It exploits
our  technology and capability and, from a
stable base, is now back on a growing and
improving trend.
Severn Trent Water International, which
provides management and consultancy
services in Europe and the developing world,
was awarded an exciting 25 year PFI contract
worth approximately £1 billion with Costain.
This groundbreaking deal for the provision of
water and wastewater services to MoD sites
in England is now up and running.
Other businesses
We will take the opportunities that we can to
restructure some of our smaller businesses
to make sure that we are focused on doing
the right thing for our main business activities.
We are scaling down our engineering
consultancy, Charles Haswell, and merging 
it into the Water business. All of their skill 
is now devoted to Severn Trent Water and 
we are no longer pursuing external contracts.
Our Severn Trent Water International interest
in Portugal has been sold and we are
restructuring Severn Trent Systems so 
we can focus on our in-house IT needs 
whilst satisfying our existing obligations 
to our client base.
Outlook
My team and I are highly focused on
improving operational performance. Indeed,
we are already analysing and scrutinising 
all our businesses in greater detail both to
ensure continual improvement, but also to 
be certain we can demonstrate their value 
to the group as a whole going forward.
Colin Matthews
Group Chief Executive
Turnover by business
% of group total in 2004/2005
5
4
3
2
1
1Water 47%£1,015.1m
2Waste 32%£696.3m
3Laboratories 7%£162.6m
4 Water Purification and 
Operating Services 10% £208.1m
5 Other 4% £86.8m
SEVERN TRENT PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 05
