 4 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Group results are ahead of a year ago and our core businesses 
– water, waste and laboratories – are in good shape. These three 
businesses accounted for 83% of Group revenues and over 90% 
of Group Operating Profit.
Our aim is to establish Severn Trent as the 
UK’s leading supplier of environmental goods 
and services, and as a major provider of
environmental solutions to the large and 
growing US market.
I am pleased to report a good all-round set of results for my last full
year as Group Chief Executive. Our success has been achieved by
concentrating on our five strategic fundamentals:
• Giving priority resources and management attention to the core
businesses of water, waste and laboratories
• In terms of acquisitions, focusing significant attention on UK waste,
with smaller or bolt on acquisitions in laboratories
• Improving or disposing of underperforming assets
• Driving for cost reduction and operating efficiencies in all
businesses
• Exploiting Group synergies, in areas like business-wide cross 
selling initiatives, and better integrating the Group’s purchasing,
human resources and operating assets
Water
Severn Trent has benefited from the price increase from December
2002’s successful interim price determination (IDoK) and also from
continuing efforts and initiatives to manage costs and control upward
pressures in the business.
Water remains firmly on track to out-perform against its regulatory
contract for the current five year period and meet its own stretching
targets. On the operating expenditure front, we’re confident of
achieving £75 million of gross operating cost efficiencies by the final
year, 2004/2005. Ofwat’s target was £62 million.
The business continues to deliver efficiencies against its £2 billion
investment programme and we’re confident we will deliver average
capital expenditure efficiencies of around 5% over the AMP3 period,
measured against the RPI Index. We are on track to deliver all our
capital investment obligations.
Our final business plan as submitted to Ofwat for the next five year
period aims to achieve the right balance between customer and
investor expectations. Our ambition is to deliver noticeable service
improvements to our customers whilst maintaining household bills
that deliver value for money. At the same time we aim to achieve
appropriate financial returns to our investors – all of this, of course,
against a background of financial prudence and careful balance
sheet management.
For the average bill our final business plan would mean an increase
of £57 per household by 2009/2010 in real terms. On the basis 
of all the plans submitted to the Regulator, this would leave Severn
Trent with the lowest average household bill for any water and
sewerage company by 2009/2010.
Waste
We are now starting to see legislative and regulatory change
impacting on the way we handle and treat our waste.
In the industrial/commercial sector where the waste generated
represents 79% of the UK’s total waste tonnage, tighter packaging
regulations are being implemented. To help customers, Biffa has a
well established compliance scheme called Biffpack that has seen
membership grow by 10% in the past year.
The Landfill Directive requires 65% of bio-degradable municipal
waste to be diverted from landfill by 2020. Responsibility to ensure
this happens has been assigned to each Waste Disposal Authority
and 25 year PFI treatment and disposal contracts are now being let,
with Biffa well placed to compete for them. 
Biffa is well positioned to take advantage of these future
opportunities, particularly now that the acquisition of Hales has
firmly established Biffa as one of the largest integrated waste
management companies in the UK.
Against this industry framework, Biffa has achieved a solid overall
result, particularly in light of the uncertain economic background.
This reflects the strength of Biffa’s management and its integrated –
Collection, Landfill and Special Waste – business model.
1 Water 45% £956.7m
2 Waste 30% £633.1m
3Services 18% £381.2m
4Others 7% £147.1m
2
1 4
Turnover by business
% of group total in 2003/2004
3 5 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Outlook
The past year’s results have clearly benefited from a focused
strategy, disciplined management and tight cost controls throughout
the business and we are confident that we have the right platform
for the future.
As this is my last report as Group Chief Executive I must stress that
everything Severn Trent has achieved has been made possible by
the enthusiasm and skill of all my colleagues. I shall miss them
greatly but I know they will give my successor the same excellence
and dedication which will serve the Group well in the future.
Robert Walker
Group Chief Executive
Services
Excluding the impact of exchange rates, turnover and profit before
interest, tax and goodwill amortisation improved. This satisfactory
result principally reflects the P&K mould testing acquisition in April
last year, which has enhanced our core laboratories business and
also the significant management actions taken in 2002/2003 in our
Water Purification Division to rationalise and improve the cost base
and re-focus the business in growth segments.
Severn Trent Laboratories continued to drive forward with its core
strategies of firstly, maximising the base business share in the
traditional, routine environmental testing areas by low cost, high
quality service turnround and secondly, expanding into higher
growth, more attractive new areas of testing such as mould, and
specialist microbiology.
Our remaining US businesses, Water Purification and Operating
Services, made significant strides over the year, probably the most
progress of any of our businesses.
Water Purification particularly has made significant improvements.
This partly reflects the downsizing in 2002 and more effective IT
systems and manufacturing processes, but most recently it reflects
more aggressive and targeted sales efforts behind new and higher
margin products and technologies.
The Operating Services business continues to strengthen. Contract
Operations has delivered organic growth in revenue and we believe
this is now the third largest business of its type in the US. The
division is currently bidding on $200 million of new business
potential in the next six months in addition to the recently signed
$65 million Fresh Kills Landfill contract in New York.
Core Businesses
We are confident that our core businesses of water, waste and
laboratories are in fine shape to take the group forward. They each
share common characteristics of leadership, scale and low cost
advantage; among the best management teams in each sector;
consistent strong past performance and long-term opportunities 
for profitable growth.
