 Looking forward
Rapid expansion over the last two years 
has left us in a strong position. New outlets,
which opened either side of the year end,
will ensure that a strong momentum of
earnings growth will continue into this year
but, as a consequence, gearing is higher
than we would like. Many shareholders are
rightly concerned that the balance sheet
needs to be strengthened. We have
acknowledged their concerns and are
taking appropriate action.
This year our focus will be on reducing
gearing substantially , while maintaining
double digit earnings growth. We will deliver
this by halving the planned new openings 
to 12, and by the disposal of non-core
operations. This strategy takes advantage
of the cash flow that we generate and
strengthens the balance sheet by 
reducing gearing.
We have already made some progress. At
the half year following the Parisa acquisition,
we reported gearing at 130%. This had
reduced to 121% at the year end on a
consistent pre FRS19 accounting basis. 
My objective is to reduce this below 100%
within 18 months.
My confidence in the future is based on the
excellent quality of SFI’ s management team,
its strength of operations and our strong
market position. We have an exceptionally
talented team and I was delighted to be
able to further strengthen it through the
recruitment of Tim Andrews as our new
Finance Director . Tim was previously the
Finance Director at late night bars operator
Po Na Na and The Slug and Lettuce Group
plc. He has wide experience and expertise
in this sector and is already making a
significant contribution.
Brand strategy
High street bars are the key growth area of
licensed retailing. It is a huge market that in
2002 is estimated to be worth £2.75bn
**
,
and embraces a wide range of varying
consumer propositions. A key factor that
differentiates SFI is our complementary
brand strategy . This ensures that in each
micro market we have a retail format
appropriate for the location and specific
target market.
Mintel have identified five sectors that
segment the high street bars market. We
compete in the three largest: traditional
bars/pubs, wine bar/brasseries and young
person’ s bars/venues. In each of these
sectors our brands are positioned at the
premium end where the overall rewards 
are highest due to the quality of sales and
margins. In each sector SFI brands have 
a clear differentiation, although in operational
terms all brands share the same core
systems and management controls.
**Source: Mintel
i) T raditional bars/pubs 
The Litten T ree competes in the largest
sector . It is a chameleon operation in that 
its trading style changes between daytime
and evening to attract different consumer
targets. It has a broad church appeal 
that attracts a wide range of age and
demographic groups, with a value-for-
money and an added value offering. Last
year we opened 13 Litten T rees bringing the
total to 57 nationally . This brand continues
to trade well with average net weekly sales
increasing to £18,451 from £17,336; like-
for-like sales were up 5.0% and like-for-like
EBITDA up by 8.7%. 
MAKING IT HAPPEN
I HAVE BEEN PRIVILEGED TO TAKE LEADERSHIP RESPONSIBILITY
FOR A COMPANY THAT HAS CONSISTENTL Y DELIVERED 
SOLID PROGRESS. THIS YEAR HAS CONTINUED THE GROUP’S
GROWTH RECORD. SINCE 1997 COMPOUND ANNUAL GROWTH
RATE HAS BEEN 55% IN SALES AND AT UNIT LEVEL EBITDA 
HAS INCREASED BY 61%. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT The brand continues to evolve and grow
with innovation being key to its continued
success. SFI’ s approach is to anticipate
changes in consumer demand and to
continually evolve its brands in order that
they remain at the forefront of trends in 
high street leisure retailing. We have focussed
on adding value particularly through live
entertainment. The Litten T ree has become
the place to watch sport of all types,
particularly football. In addition, food is an
important element to the brand offer and
menu innovation has resulted in encouraging
increases in average food sales per site.
As the Group progresses its expansion
nationwide, The Litten T ree continues to
have considerable success in smaller towns
in appealing to a wide audience. During the
year , we successfully developed nine sites 
in smaller towns such as Coalville, Bicester
and Long Eaton at a lower cost and
achieved our target return on capital of 
30% on fit out.
ii) Wine bars/brasseries
The Slug and Lettuce brand has been 
in existence for 19 years. Its aspirational/
premium nature makes it a leader in the
wine bar/brasserie sector . Its evolution 
has accelerated and developed since its
acquisition by SFI in 2000. The overall
format of the operations remains the same
but rigorous SFI retailing disciplines have
been embedded. EBITDA per site has
improved by 47.9% since owned by SFI.
This £2.6m of increased return illustrates 
the management’ s ability to add operational
value. Weekly average sales of original 
Slug and Lettuce sites have risen to
£18,315 (2001: £18,145). Like-for-like sales
rose by 3.1% and at EBITDA by 8.0%.
Just prior to mid-year we accelerated
expansion, primarily through acquiring a
chain of 28 restaurant bars (24 trading 
and 4 landbank), previously trading as
Parisa. This was financed without directly
increasing borrowing, but by realigning the
new openings programme instead to stay
within the Group’ s planned capital
expenditure budget. 
We assessed that the unrealised potential 
of the former Parisa sites was considerable
and repositioned our development
programme accordingly to accommodate
this advantageous property acquisition. 
18 of these have now been converted to
Slug and Lettuce. T wo sites will be converted
to Fiesta Havana and the remainder will
either be converted once licensing issues
are resolved or disposed of. Average weekly
sales before conversion of the Parisa sites
were £13,669 and currently are running 
at 17% higher .
In terms of systems and purchasing, the
whole Group was quickly integrated within
two days of us taking control. Sales and
profitability per site have exceeded the
targets laid out in the business plan. There
are now 58 Slug and Lettuce sites.
iii) Y oung person’s bars/venues
Bar Med and Fiesta Havana compete in the
sector that has entertainment and partying
as core values. Mintel categorises this as 
a young persons bar/venue.
SFI GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2002
12/13 A mark two template of Bar Med has been
introduced during the year and applied 
in four new openings. The new template 
is split in two; a contemporary bar and 
a strong venue area where the state-of-the-
art laser , light and music system enables
named djs, bands and entertainment of all
kinds to be provided. The mark 2 sites have
achieved very encouraging weekly average
sales of £21,173 that puts them in the 
top quartile of high street bars in terms of
turnover . The next stage of the repositioning
will be to trial this format amongst the
original Bar Med template.
The rationalisation of the estate will continue
and we anticipate that there will be 24 
Bar Meds going forward that meet the new
brand format. The Bar Med performance
from the existing estate achieved average
weekly sales of £21,549 (2001: £19,807),
like-for-like sales of 2.5% sales and 
13.3% EBITDA. 
Like Bar Med, the Latin Brands exist in the
entertainment-led, partying sector of the
high street bars market. There are 17 sites
in this category . During the year we added 
1 Fiesta Havana in the Isle of Man. This 
site is trading considerably above our
expectations. We will also add two sites
from the Parisa acquisition. The difficult
trading in the West End over recent months
has been well documented and Fiesta
Havana operations have been no
exception. The average weekly sales per
site were £25,725 and like-for-like sales
declined by 3.3%. In view of the exceptional
performance of the sites that we have
developed and improvements expected in
the West End, we remain confident in the
future for this brand. 
Company growth
The opportunistic purchase of 24 restaurant
bars previously trading as Parisa enabled 
us to increase the rate of growth to 46 new
outlets in the year . Five sites were opened 
in the first half and 17 opened in the second
half. 14 of these occurred in the last few
weeks of the year and as such produced
negligible profit contribution to these results. 
Disposals
In the last 20 months we have made positive
progress in exiting from the old-style,
unbranded pubs that are no longer core
and 10 disposals have been completed.
Our ongoing liability for five onerous
Entrepreneur leases has ended and the final
five outlets have terms agreed for disposal.
In December we undertook a sale and
leaseback of seven freeholds. In aggregate
the property disposals showed a net profit
of £264,000.
Gross margins
This year we increased our gross margins
by 1.4 percentage points to 77.7% 
(2001: 76.3%). 
This is contrary to industry trends, and is
principally explained by three factors. First
we have positioned all of our brands firmly
at the premium end of the sectors in which
they compete, where quality and added
value entertainment supports premium
pricing. We continue to avoid permanent
discounting but have retained a policy of
tactical price promotion to stimulate sales.
Secondly , the focus on retailing systems
and purchasing opportunities have driven
out more value, and thirdly , we have
introduced and extended our range of 
own label products. 
The range of products under our Demon
Drinks own label now include energy drink
mixers, bottled still and sparkling water and
fruit juice. These are all produced for us by
third parties. This activity would not have
been possible without us taking control of
our own supply route which we did in 2001.
The Demon Drinks products added an
incremental £300k to the margin in the
reporting year . In view of this contribution,
we are expanding this range to include 
a vodka based, premium packaged mixer
called Demon Ice.
MAKING IT HAPPEN
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
CONTINUED SFI GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2002
14/15 For your eyes only – (FYEO)
The Board is committed to exiting from 
this business and I would like to report
progress. Earlier this year we appointed 
a specialist property agent to identify
potential purchasers and negotiate a trade
sale. There have been a number of offers
but these either excluded part of the
operations or did not deliver acceptable
value. Subsequently , an extensive
marketing exercise identified that a break 
up of the operations was likely to be the
best way ahead.
The current status is that negotiations are
proceeding with a number of parties in
respect of these separate parts of the FYEO
assets. Conditional agreements have 
been made but are subject to funding and
other considerations. It is not appropriate,
therefore, to disclose details of the parties
involved or the terms of individual
transactions. I can confirm, however , that
the terms currently under discussion are 
in line with net book value. We anticipate
reporting progress in the near future.
Licensing reform implications for SFI
It is looking increasingly likely that the long
awaited reforms in relation to licensing,
which the Government have promised, will
be included in Queen’ s Speech for the next
session of Parliament in November . 
For the Group, the new Act will be mainly
advantageous but, along with most of 
the industry , we are opposed to the key
administrative changes proposed. It is likely
that responsibility for licensing administration
and new license granting will transfer from
licensing magistrates to local authorities. 
As a consequence, we believe that this 
will cause significant delay and potentially
increased costs. We have been proactive
and have been involved, through the trade
organisations, at the highest level of
Government, in trying to influence the
opinion and avoid disadvantageous drafting.
As the growth programme is a key driver 
of our development, delays that prevent us
from opening new sites could prevent our
growth objective from being met. T o avoid
this we have been ‘banking’ licences and 
in addition have set up our own in-house
licensing team. We have 33 new licences
for new premises ‘banked’. 
Estate details
At the year-end the Group had a total of
186 operations (2001: 143). These
comprised: Litten T ree 57, Bar Med 26,
Slug and Lettuce 58, Latin Brands 17 and
unbranded 28. We currently have 57 sites
with heads of terms agreed on the landbank.
Of them, 36 have planning in place and 
33 have licensing in place. 
Andrew Latham
Chief Executive
30 July 2002
