 SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011
6
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s Statement
REVENUE HAS GROWN BY 23.7% 
WITH PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS 
INCREASING 30.2% TO GBP18.5 
MILLION BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL 
ITEMS OF THE EXCEPTIONAL 
IPO BONUS OF GBP3.1 MILLION 
IN 2011 AND A CREDIT FOR 
CONTRACT SETTLEMENT IN 2010 
OF GBP3.8 MILLION. 
After taking account of the exceptional items, 
Proﬁ t from Operations was GBP15.3 million (2010: 
GBP18.0 million). The Group’s net proﬁ t after 
tax for the year on a pre-IPO Bonus basis was 
GBP11.1 million (2010: GBP9.9 million pre contract 
settlement) and after the exceptional items was 
GBP8.7 million (2010: GBP12.6 million). Our return 
on capital employed averaged 8.2% pre the IPO 
Bonus (2010: 6.1% pre contract settlement) and 
our goal is to see this increase into the double 
digits in the next 3 years through our focussed 
strategy in the CIS and India regions. 
South African Operations
South Africa remains the primary region for the 
Group and we are conﬁ dent in the continued 
improvement in revenues in this region. This 
should be supported by the implementation of 
a black economic empowerment shareholding 
arrangement announced during the year.
In the ﬁ rst half of 2011, the Impala 16 and 17 
shafts were impacted by standing time, which in 
turn impacted gross proﬁ t margins. The second 
half saw a recovery at these two projects, which 
will improve gross proﬁ t margins to an acceptable 
level. After the period end, in March 2012, we 
were awarded additional capital development 
contracts at Impala 16, which will improve the 
overall margin at that shaft.
We progressed well with the pre-sink and 
mobilisation work at Afplats’ Leeuwkop shaft. The 
award of the contract has been phased in stages 
and in March 2012 we were awarded the second 
phase of work to sink to a depth of 325.8 meters 
by September 2012.
The Lonmin shafts at Hossy and Saffy performed 
well. Karee 3 has fallen behind plan but measures 
are in place to mitigate operational losses and 
avoid them in the future. Overall, the Lonmin 
projects have beneﬁ ted from additional capital 
development work being undertaken.
Work at the Styldrift project suffered low levels 
of production caused mainly by the introduction 
of new safety procedures and a shortage of 
skilled labour which impacted production cycles 
signiﬁ cantly. Production levels have improved 
in the second half of 2011 and we are currently 
performing close to planned levels, although we 
remain behind the overall project schedule. 
Our project at AngloGold Ashanti’s Moab shaft 
has performed well and is expected to reach 
completion by the end of 2012.
Work on our project at Hernic Ferrochrome’s 
Bokfontein mine continues to progress at a 
satisfactory pace. 
International Operations
Our project at EuroChem’s potash deposit in 
Russia suffered setbacks due to the extremely 
difﬁ cult underground conditions, making progress 
very slow which in the context of EuroChem’s 
broader mine programme, was unacceptable. 
In early December 2011 EuroChem decided 
to suspend our grouting operations and to 
switch to a freezing technique for which the 
shaft is currently being prepared. After making 
various proposals to EuroChem, which were not 
accepted, we have decided to give advance 
225014 Shaft_Sinkers_R&A_2012_pages.indd   6 26/04/2012   19:37 7
notice of termination of the contract with effect 
from 20 April 2012. Further information on this 
can be found in the Directors’ report under 
Principal events for the year on page 24. 
In India our T eesta III hydroelectric project is almost 
complete. Work on the second surge shaft stopped 
in the latter half of 2011 following an earthquake 
in the vicinity of the site. There remained very little 
work to complete the shaft at the time and this last 
remaining work is being ﬁ nalised by the client while 
we demobilise our equipment.
Our Mining Engineering and Technical 
Services (METS) division continues to ﬁ nd new 
opportunities for design and EPCM contracts. 
Health and Safety
Our Injury Frequency Rate, one of our safety 
indicators has improved to 1.58 (2010: 4.88) 
compared to the industry benchmark of 3.60. 
Regrettably there were 10 traumatic accidents 
that took place in 2011, including the tragic 
fatality of Mr Macamo on the 5th of April. We 
have redoubled our efforts to improve our safety 
initiatives across all our operations which will 
lead to better awareness of safety across all 
levels in the Company. In 2011 we were awarded 
“Southern Africa Mine SAFE 2011 Mining 
Contractor Companies Best in Safety Class” by 
the Mine Managers Association of South Africa 
and SA Institute of Metallurgy. We continue to 
face the challenge of skills shortages in being 
prepared to take on the many potential projects 
facing the Company at present. To this end, 
we have been building up our team of skilled 
personnel and we are ensuring that we are at the 
forefront of providing attractive retention policies 
and rewarding our skilled staff appropriately. In 
order to cater for our planned growth over the 
forthcoming years, we have bolstered the senior 
executive team at the Executive Committee level, 
having added the positions of Group Business 
Development Manager, Chief Commercial Ofﬁ cer, 
Country Manager CIS Region, Chief Information 
Ofﬁ cer, Chief Operational Ofﬁ cer International 
and Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer South Africa. At the 
same time we are increasing our efforts at staff 
retention and recruitment of skilled engineers and 
artisans. While this has added to our operating 
expenses in 2011 and may add a little more to 
2012, we believe we will have reached an optimal 
level of operating support to enable the Group 
to take on the challenges of growth presented 
by the record number of tenders we expect to 
largely convert into long term contracts in 2012.
Black Economic Empowerment
We have implemented a black economic 
empowerment shareholding arrangement 
in Shaft Sinkers Mining (Pty) Ltd, one of our 
South African subsidiaries, whereby 26% of the 
subsidiary’s shares have been issued to historically 
disadvantaged South Africans. 16% of the 
shareholding is earmarked to provide a future 
cash beneﬁ t from dividends for the Category 3 to 
8 South African employees through an employee 
share trust, making this transaction a broad-based 
empowerment transaction for the direct beneﬁ t of 
targeted employees in the Group. Furthermore, 
the Group is pleased to welcome three 
distinguished businessmen, Mr. Mikki Xayiya, Mr. 
Jabu Mabuza and Mr. Aubrey Lekwane as minority 
shareholders into the Group, together holding 
10% of Shaft Sinkers Mining. The Board believes 
this step, which should not materially affect 
expected earnings from existing contracts, will be 
beneﬁ cial to the business in securing new contracts 
in South Africa and will assist the Group in meeting 
the requirements of some of its clients under the 
South African Mining Charter and enhancing the 
long-term sustainability of the business in South 
Africa. The share based payment expense arising 
in the 2011 ﬁ nancial results is GBP0.2 million (refer 
to note 32.1 to the annual ﬁ nancial statement).
225014 Shaft_Sinkers_R&A_2012_pages.indd   7 26/04/2012   19:37 8
Order book and tendering activity
At 31 December 2011 the order book stood 
at approximately £301 million (2010: GBP488 
million), including GBP94 million in relation to 
EuroChem (2010: GBP119 million), of remaining 
revenues to be billed on committed contracts.
After completing the pre-sink phase of Afplats’ 
Leeuwkop main shaft which was awarded in 
March 2011, we have been awarded the second 
phase of work to sink to a depth of 325.8 meters 
by September 2012. The bulk of the project 
remains subject to the ﬁ nal approval by the 
Impala board (Afplats is a subsidiary of Impala). 
Management anticipates the approval and 
signing of this contract before the end of the ﬁ rst 
half of 2012. 
Since the last reported results for the half year 
ended 30 June 2011, management has been 
actively pursuing a number of new tenders. The 
new business development roles established in 
2011 have culminated in a more concerted effort 
at identifying opportunities and subsequently 
growing our potential pipeline.
The Group has over £1.0 billion of outstanding 
tenders or price submissions on a total of 10 
projects as at the date of this report. While 
there can be no certainty as to the award of any 
of these contracts, management believes the 
Company remains well placed to secure a number 
of these tenders when they are awarded. The 
current tender pipeline is at a very high level.
Initiatives 
In 2011 we funded an initial investment in a 
technology business that is developing a laser 
based shaft inspection system that will transform 
the way compulsory shaft inspections are being 
performed today. This new system will be much 
safer, quicker and more accurate. Such a system 
would allow Shaft Sinkers to offer an additional 
service to its clients and create a recurring stable 
revenue ﬂ ow. We hope to have a prototype ready 
towards the beginning of 2013. 
We will continue our strategic focus to build 
on our strengths, namely people, safety and 
experience and to seek out and exploit new 
opportunities in the CIS region and India, while 
continuing to build on our strong base in Africa. 
In 2011 the strategic focus has been on further 
improving the performances of the South African 
operations and continuing the expansion of Shaft 
Sinkers internationally. We have been using some 
of the listing proceeds to refurbish key plant 
in preparation for new potential contracts. The 
availability of our own inventory of reconditioned 
winders remains key to our strategy to be well 
positioned for taking on new sinking contracts.
Our goals for 2012 and the next few years is 
to improve on the return on capital employed, 
and adding value to shareholders. This should 
be achieved by being awarded higher margin 
contracts in the CIS and India regions on a now 
steady operating cost base having built up our 
operational readiness to take on a higher volume 
of work. With a number of exciting opportunities 
on the horizon we remain conﬁ dent of our 
continued growth over the next ﬁ ve years.
Alon Davidov
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
26 April 2012
225014 Shaft_Sinkers_R&A_2012_pages.indd   8 26/04/2012   19:37
