 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5
Overview
We head into the first year of AMP5 confident 
that the hard work our people have been doing 
in recent years makes us well prepared to meet 
the challenges of the future.
In 2009/10 we continued to deliver what we set out to do in our KPIs 
and business strategy, focusing on improving our performance and 
successfully completing AMP4. At the same time we set about 
preparing our businesses for the next regulatory period and gearing 
up for the longer term issues facing the water industry as a whole.
Improving performance across our group
In 2009/10 we faced pressures on two fronts – continuing impact 
from the economic downturn and the additional challenge of  
coping with the coldest winter for 30 years. Nevertheless, we 
performed well on the financial front, continued to make process 
and efficiency improvements throughout our businesses and 
delivered excellent service. 
As we reach the end of the regulatory period our performance has 
improved to position us better for AMP5. AMP4 was not without its 
difficulties but we used our learning to transform our business, 
putting our performance and our company in a strong position to 
meet the challenges of the next five years and beyond. 
Severn Trent Water
Over the past five years we have been setting ever higher standards 
to achieve better levels of customer satisfaction and improve our 
environmental, financial and regulatory performance. We delivered 
good results and maintained our dividend promise. We significantly 
reduced customer complaints, tackling sewer flooding and 
increasing the reliability of water supplies across our region. We 
achieved our own financial targets and those set by Ofwat to meet 
our ongoing commitment to be the best water and waste water 
company in the UK, with the highest standards, the lowest possible 
charges for our customers and with great people.
In December 2009, our journey of continuous improvement was 
recognised by our peers in the utility sector who named us Utility 
Company of the Year, a prestigious award, one we feel very proud 
of winning. That journey has been paving the way for the next 
regulatory period, backed by significant lead-in investments to 
improve our processes and the capabilities of our people. Along the 
way we have invested in systems and technologies, implementing 
SAP and building our new telemetry systems to improve monitoring 
of our network and lower our operating costs. We rolled out our 
Safer Better Faster (SBF) process improvement programme to 
more areas of our business to ensure we work in smarter and leaner 
ways. We made early progress with our future capital plans, and  
the new Severn Trent Centre in Coventry is already close to 
completion and ready for us to move in some 1,700 staff this 
autumn. All of which means we enter AMP5 with our plans for the 
period well advanced.
Severn Trent Services
The global economic downturn made this a challenging year for 
Severn Trent Services. Nevertheless, by continuing to focus on 
longer term growth, our complementary non-regulated business 
maintained customer confidence and remains in good shape. 
Operating Services performed well, and continued to grow. Water 
Purification and Analytical Services were harder hit by the 
recession, effectively losing a year of growth. That said, the order 
book remains high at Water Purification and by the end of the year 
performance was moving back on a growth track. At Analytical 
Services we look forward to starting the new 10 year Yorkshire 
Water contract, building on a restructured and lower cost base.
Looking to the long term
As we make the transition from one regulatory period to another, the 
water industry in England and Wales is reaching a critical point.
At Severn Trent we believe we are in a strong position to deal with the 
challenges ahead. Our operational performance, financial strength, 
geography and low cost base differentiate us from other companies. 
We relish the challenge of finding innovative solutions to tough 
problems and are firmly committed to delivering the lowest charges in 
England and Wales for our customers. We will also continue to 
support our complementary business Severn Trent Services. 
We are, of course, committed to responsible business conduct. 
Every day we’re delivering water and waste water services and 
treatment solutions to customers globally, we’re investing in local, 
regional and national economies, and we’re doing this with a focus 
on minimising our carbon footprint. This is the real heart of corporate 
responsibility and for us it’s business as usual. It’s about keeping our 
prices down for our customers, being a good, safe and attractive 
employer and safeguarding the environments in which we work. 
Last, but by no means least, we have a great team of people in both 
Severn Trent and in our supply chain partners. Wherever I go in our 
business I’m impressed by the motivation and commitment of our 
people, whether they’re keeping our customers supplied with quality 
water, reducing pollution incidents and sewer flooding, producing 
record levels of renewables, improving customer service metrics in 
a tough economic environment, or delivering technological solutions 
and getting it right first time. It’s thanks to them that we move into 
AMP5 with confidence and the kind of strength you would expect 
from a company with ambitions to be the best water and waste water 
company in the UK.
Finally, may I take this opportunity to thank Sir John for his huge 
contribution to Severn Trent over the past five years, and his 
exemplary leadership through some challenging as well as 
successful times for our company. I wish him all the best for the 
future, and give him my personal thanks for the unstinting support 
that he has given to me in my role as Chief Executive.
Chief Executive’s review
Tony Wray, Chief Executive
