 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 4
As this report covers the last full year of my tenure as Chairman of 
Severn Trent Plc, I am pleased to report on yet another year of 
significant improvement. We faced the challenges of the coldest 
winter for 30 years and an economic environment which remains 
challenging, yet Tony Wray, our Chief Executive, and his team have 
delivered substantially increased group profit before interest, tax 
and exceptional items. We have continued to attain higher 
standards through process improvements, development of 
supporting technology and systems, and the training and 
development of our people.
Building on our track record of continuous improvement, the board 
has overseen the progression of Severn Trent Water from the final 
year of AMP4 to embarking on the next five year programme AMP5. 
At a professional and personal level, it is particularly gratifying to 
have presided over five years during which we have moved from 
being a business with a number of serious problems to overcome,  
to a company recognised as offering good service, continuous 
improvement and well placed to deliver further advances. 
This year, Tony and our employees achieved upper quartile 
performance in nine of our 20 Key Performance Indicators.  
Our dedicated employees have engaged in a range of activities 
which have helped to accelerate our efficiency programmes and 
achieved tangible improvements in customer service, sewer 
flooding reduction, health and safety performance and water quality.
We have succeeded in delivering this performance at the same  
time as offering the lowest average water and sewerage bills in 
England and Wales. The cost of all Severn Trent water and waste 
services is, on average, less than 83p per day, per household, with 
bills falling by 0.72% in 2010/11 and set to decrease by 4% in total 
over the next five years.
These advances in our regulated business are complemented by 
the expertise we have across global markets through Severn Trent 
Services, where our ‘Blueprint for growth’ will shape sustainable 
growth in the years ahead. 
Group results
Group profit before tax, gains/losses on financial instruments and 
exceptional items was £338.4 million (2009: £273.5 million). Group 
profit before tax was £334.4 million (2009: £167.6 million).
The board is proposing a final dividend of 45.61 pence (2009: 41.05 
pence) to be paid on 30 July 2010. This would give a total dividend 
of 72.32 pence per ordinary share, an increase of 7.4%.
Corporate responsibility performance
We develop, manage and operate Severn Trent for long term 
sustainable benefits for all our stakeholders.
I am proud to be able to say that 20% of Severn Trent Water’s total 
energy requirements were met from our own renewable sources  
in 2009/10, and our target is to grow this to 30%. This year’s 
performance has consolidated our leadership position in the sector 
on generation from renewable sources. Meanwhile, our continued 
focus on creating and maintaining a safe working environment 
resulted in a 17% reduction in group lost time incidents during 
2009/10. This focus on health and safety has in turn driven 
improved processes and efficiency.
Board
Gordon Fryett, Director of Property at Tesco, was appointed to the 
boards of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Limited from 
1 July 2009, and his experience has already added value to the 
board’s activities.
On 10 May 2010 we announced the appointment of Andy Duff  
as Chairman designate of Severn Trent. He brings with him the 
experience of running utilities and other essential infrastructure 
businesses at UK and international level, and I wish him  
every success.
As I report on page 35, we have set out our strong commitment to 
good governance at Severn Trent and have put in place solid 
foundations for the next period.
Outlook
I am pleased to confirm that we have delivered our planned 
operating costs savings over the past year, and delivered our 
capital programme for the AMP4 period. 
By accelerating our new programmes ahead of AMP5, we have 
ensured Severn Trent’s plans are well advanced. Innovation  
has been a key theme in completing the latter part of our AMP4 
programme and will be central to meeting our targets during  
the next regulatory period: we have further developed our  
“one supply chain” with our contractors and suppliers, creating 
shared experience, knowledge and offices to deliver our  
capital programme. 
Through our focus on continuous improvement, we plan to put 
Severn Trent Water ahead of the rest of the industry in operating 
efficiency by 2015, with customers still benefiting from the lowest 
average bills in England and Wales.
Meanwhile, Severn Trent Services overcame a difficult economic 
environment and delivered improved results during the second half 
of the year. The company continues to concentrate on higher 
growth and higher margin market segments where our water and 
waste water products and services meet a significant need. 
As I prepare to hand over to a new Chairman, I believe we are on 
the threshold of great change across the water sector – be it within 
companies, among regulators or within the policy framework which 
shapes the industry and its conduct. Now is the time to change 
course while preserving the achievements of 20 successful years 
of water privatisation. 
I will leave with the belief that longer term, our operational 
excellence, low cost base, geography and the growing expertise  
of Severn Trent Services as our non-regulated business gives 
confidence that Severn Trent is well placed to take advantage of 
the opportunities that change will bring.
Sir John Egan, Chairman
Chairman’s statement
