 SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
6
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Statement
I AM PLEASED TO REPORT THAT THE 
GROUP HAS EXCEEDED OUR PLAN 
FOR THE 2010 FINANCIAL YEAR. 
TURNOVER HAS GROWN BY 24% 
WITH PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS 
INCREASING BY 25%. 
Despite some one-off items, the Group’s 
net proﬁt after tax  for the year increased by 
approximately 27%. This year marked a new 
chapter in Shaft Sinkers’ history when on  
23 December the Group was admitted to trading 
on to the main board of the London Stock 
Exchange. In line with management’s strategy 
to expand internationally and acquire a basis for 
funding the future growth of the business, this 
listing is seen as a crucial step forward. 
South African Operations
South African operations beneﬁted from 
additional work and one-off items. The Group’s 
new contract at Styldrift is an important step in 
diversifying the groups’ client base with Anglo 
Platinum and Royal Bafokeng Nation becoming 
important new clients through a joint venture 
that owns the Styldrift mine. Lonmin’s Hossy and 
Saffy shafts, despite the predicted termination 
of labour supply contracts, extended our scope 
of work and we achieved strong performance 
from our operations at those shafts contributing 
to the group’s stronger results. Our contracts at 
AngloGold Ashanti’s Moab shaft have performed 
well and will be extended in 2011. Our project 
at Impala’s 16 shaft continues to be a low margin 
contract and some technical difﬁculties were 
encountered there. In contrast, our project at 
Impala’s 17 shaft which is one of the largest 
shaft systems being sunk anywhere in the world, 
is progressing on track again despite some 
difﬁculties with winders and ground conditions 
encountered. In early 2010 an important contract 
was signed with Hernic Ferrochrome at their 
Bokfontein mine. This cost plus contract for two 
decline shafts includes a toll mining element. 
The project will grow signiﬁcantly with the future 
expansion of the mine. In line with the Group’s 
policy for toll mining contracts,the risks of cost 
escalation will be carefully controlled. 
The one-off items that improved results in 2010 
culminated after management took actions to 
redress its contract with Kalagadi Manganese in 
2009. In 2010 we reached an amicable settlement 
for the recovery of outstanding amounts with 
Kalagadi Manganese.  Delta Gold Zimbabwe, 
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alpha Resources, 
which owns the Eureka gold mine in Zimbabwe 
and which has been Shaft Sinkers’ only investment 
in a mining operation (to the extent of 25%) had 
been struggling for several years since the political 
and ﬁnancial situation deteriorated in Zimbabwe. 
The situation caused the Eureka gold mine to 
suffer ﬁnancial losses and was a signiﬁcant drain 
on management time and focus. We had resolved 
to divest from Eureka in 2009, and achieved in 
the second half of 2010, we have recouped some 
GBP1.8 million (ZAR20 million) of our investment. 
More importantly Shaft Sinkers can now focus on 
its core skill of being a shaft sinking contractor.
We have also commenced the preparatory work 
(pre-sink) for a major shaft complex for an existing 
customer. Negotiations are still under way to 
secure the main sink for the main and vent shaft.
International Operations 
Despite a stronger Rand against the US Dollar 
and Sterling and approximately half of the 
Group’s margin being generated in US Dollars, 
the Groups’ international business showed a 
strong performance. Eurochem, our ﬂagship 
Russian contract is a technically challenging 
assignment to sink an 1100m shaft into a 
potash deposit in Kotelnikovo, 300km from 
Volgograd. The project team has faced various 
challenges ranging from technical and logistical 
to administrative. The project team together 
with management has learned some invaluable 
lessons from these challenges, which will 
contribute to the future progress of Shaft Sinkers 
in this and similar territories. Towards the end of  7
2010 the project overcame some technical as well 
as administrative hurdles and sinking operations 
resumed. The project is facing a delay and we 
are constantly seeking ways to proactively resolve 
issues as they arise and shorten the delays. In 
2011 in my new role as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
I will be focusing on this project and building 
an even stronger relationship with the client. 
Eurochem is a key strategic client for us in Russia 
and through our strong relationship we should be 
well-placed to secure long term prospects on the 
current project as well as others. 
In India our Teesta project has progressed well. 
We have almost completed the ﬁrst surge tunnel 
and work has advanced on the second tunnel. 
Our Mining Engineering and Technical Services 
(METS) division continues to outperform targets 
by signing more Engineering, Procurement, 
Construction and consulting contracts. The outlook 
is positive for Shaft Sinkers and the industry as a 
whole. More projects are being prepared for and 
are drawing closer to commencement.
In terms of safety, the company is working hard 
to maintain high standards culminating with Shaft 
Sinkers achieving 3 million fatality free shifts for the 
ﬁrst time in its history. In November we experienced 
a fatality at our Styldrift project and lost one of our 
colleagues Mr. Mojalefa Lekoro and recently in 
April 2011 lost Mr. Sansao Macamo at our Karee 3 
operations. These are stark reminders of the perils 
of our business and the importance of maintaining 
high standards and constant vigilance at every level 
of the organisation.
One of the main challenges facing the group is 
skills shortage. This is an industry-wide problem. 
Shaft Sinkers has developed in-house learner-
ship and training programs in order to assuage 
this shortage. We will also be looking to ﬁnd 
appropriate skills in other territories. We are 
actively searching for skills in the territories we 
are operating in, especially Russia. Furthermore, 
we review the level of earnings of our key people 
by comparison to industry averages and we look 
at incentives that will keep our business ahead of 
the industry so that we can attract and retain the 
skills the business needs.
For the year ahead, the group will experience 
a period of initially settling into the new 
environment of a listed entity and at the same 
time we expect to build on its strengths, 
namely people, safety and experience to start 
growing the business organically. In 2011 the 
strategic focus will be on further improving the 
performances of the South African operations 
and continuing the expansion of Shaft Sinkers 
internationally. It is our intention to strategically 
position the company to undertake new projects 
and, as we stated in our listing prospectus, we 
will use some of the listing proceeds to refurbish 
key plant which is in our Rand Yard. Winders are 
long lead items which can take up to 24 months 
to manufacture. Shaft Sinkers has over the years 
accumulated a signiﬁcant inventory of winders 
which we will selectively recondition in order to 
be strategically well positioned for taking on new 
sinking contracts. Signiﬁcant ground work has 
been laid both in South Africa and beyond for the 
award of new contracts.  
I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
our former shareholders Mmakau Mining and 
Holgoun for their past contribution to the 
development of Shaft Sinkers as an  
international company.  
In 2011 Shaft Sinkers turned ﬁfty. This is a 
remarkable achievement and a testament to the 
quality of the company.  Going forward as a public 
and international company the main challenge 
is to preserve the quality and standards that 
characterised the company for the last ﬁfty years 
whilst we pursue new opportunities in South Africa 
and abroad. Combining our unique South African 
skills with the rigour and transparency of being a 
UK listed company will assist us to deliver value to 
our investors, employees and stake holders.
Alon Davidov
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
