 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 4
Chairman’s statement
At the end of my ﬁrst ﬁnancial year as 
Chairman, I’m pleased to report that we 
have made a good start to delivering  
our targets for the new AMP5 regulatory 
period and are realising the beneﬁts of  
our efﬁciency improvement programmes. 
As expected the price reductions at the 
start of the ﬁve year determination have 
reduced proﬁtability below prior years’ 
levels but from this base Severn Trent 
Water has continued to outperform.
For the year, total group turnover was up 
0.4% to £1.7 billion. The real price reduction 
in the ﬁrst year of the new AMP has 
rebased underlying proﬁtability with group 
proﬁt before tax, gains/losses on ﬁnancial 
instruments and exceptional items, down 
14.7% to £288.6 million, giving adjusted 
earnings per share, excluding deferred tax, 
of 105.6p, a 14% decrease on the prior year.
This is a good solid business on track  
to perform well and deliver total overall 
beneﬁts for shareholders, customers and 
the environment.
There remains signiﬁcant opportunity for 
growth in both our Services business and 
in delivering further outperformance in 
Severn Trent Water.
Andrew Duff, Chairman Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5
Overview
I am delighted to ﬁnd, at Severn Trent, a 
strong board of executives, very capably  
led by Tony Wray, that is committed to 
operational excellence and continuous 
improvement. Momentum within the 
company is strong and we have the 
ambition to be recognised as a top 
performer in our sector. I am also grateful to 
the management team for the wholehearted 
support that they have given to me in my 
ﬁrst year as Chairman.
We have a solid track record of ﬁnancial 
performance and the board is proposing a 
ﬁnal dividend of 39.05p, to be paid on 29 
July 2011. This will give a total dividend of 
65.09 pence per ordinary share. From this 
new base, we will look to grow the dividend 
by 3% above RPI each year up to 2014/15. 
The single largest proﬁt driver was the 
performance of Severn Trent Water, which 
continued to outperform with planned 
operational expenditure below the level of 
the Final Determination. 
This improvement in efﬁciency is a 
consequence of the group’s ongoing change 
programme, which is resulting in signiﬁcant 
business improvement. One of the most 
momentous changes during the year was 
the move to our new operating centre in 
Coventry, resulting in not only a change  
of environment for our people, but a  
change to new, more efﬁcient and 
innovative, working practices. I’ve yet to 
meet a visitor who isn’t impressed by this 
truly modern working environment and the 
building has created a level of energy and 
enthusiasm that is infectious.
The change programme extends beyond 
the ofﬁce to the group’s operations and 
processes and includes signiﬁcant systems 
investment. Naturally, as with many 
programmes of this size and scale, it comes 
with its challenges. But we’re conﬁdent we 
have embarked upon a course that will allow 
us to continue to deliver further efﬁciencies 
throughout the AMP period.
Operational performance during the year 
was impacted by the severe winter weather, 
placing pressure on our leakage 
performance. During the year the number of 
unplanned interruptions to customers’ water 
supply increased. We have decided to 
increase the level of investment in our water 
distribution system in order to build even 
greater resilience in our infrastructure to 
cope with severe weather in future years. 
Severe weather notwithstanding however, 
we continue to provide some of the highest 
standards of customer service in the 
industry, with excellent drinking water quality 
and a year on year reduction in the number 
of properties suffering from sewer ﬂooding. 
I am particularly pleased to see the focus  
on health and safety within the business. 
The personal safety of employees has 
always been one of my priorities so I was 
pleased to ﬁnd a strong culture and focus on 
safety in the company. Our recent Employee 
Engagement survey shows that 95% of our 
people say that health and safety is taken 
seriously at Severn Trent Water and this is 
reﬂected in the Severn Trent Water Lost 
Time Incident (LTI) performance which 
remains the best in the sector. Safety is one 
issue but the commitment of our employees 
is vital to our group’s success and so we are 
continuing to invest in the development and 
training of our employees and future leaders.
During the year, we made good progress in 
protecting our environment and dealing with 
waste water whilst continuing to lead the 
industry in the production of renewable 
energy. Self-generated renewables now 
supply 22% of Severn Trent Water’s power 
requirements, helping to mitigate our  
carbon impact. 
Severn Trent Services had a mixed year 
with performance falling below expectations. 
Although the business made good progress 
in reducing its costs and maintains a strong 
order book, results were affected by project 
delays in our Middle East and North Africa 
region and the slowdown in the global 
economic environment, impacting public 
funded initiatives. Growth and proﬁtability  
in our Services business remains a priority 
and we are well placed to make progress  
on this aim. 
As I write this statement it seems likely that 
there will be some regulatory change 
following the publication of the government’s 
White Paper later this year. We intend to 
continue to play an active role in regulatory 
reform and play an inﬂuential role in the 
debate about how our industry addresses 
the challenges ahead of us in order to 
promote sustainable growth. We also want 
to make sure that any change strikes the 
right balance between delivering value and 
security to our customers and reliable 
returns to our shareholders. We must get 
this right because the investment challenge 
over future years means that we must be 
able to compete for capital internationally as 
the need for infrastructure funding globally 
becomes more pressing. You can read 
more about our position on page 20 of  
this report.
All of this will undoubtedly bring more 
challenges but I ﬁrmly believe that we have 
the talent, the innovation, the systems and 
the resources to continue to achieve 
proﬁtable and sustainable growth for our 
group whilst also meeting the needs of our 
customers and the environment.
‘ We have the talent, the innovation, the 
systems and the resources to continue  
to achieve proﬁtable and sustainable 
growth for our group whilst also  
meeting the needs of our customers  
and the environment.’
Andrew Duff,  
Chairman
