 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 6
Chief Executive’s review
Our strategy of sustainable growth 
through a focus on water and waste  
water operations in the UK and 
internationally, continues to deliver 
signiﬁcant overall value.
In the UK, Severn Trent Water made  
a good start to the new ﬁve year  
regulatory period, performing broadly  
in line with expectations. 
In a challenging year, I would like to  
pay tribute to our people, who 
professionally handled both difﬁcult 
operational circumstances and  
signiﬁcant internal change.
Our Severn Trent Services business 
started the year strongly, but was  
affected by the economic slowdown  
and political and regulatory uncertainty  
in the second half. 
Fundamentally, we remain well placed  
to deliver our business plan and to 
continue to play an active role in shaping 
the future of the UK water industry.
T ony Wray , Chief Executive Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7
Overview
Business Performance Review
Group proﬁt before interest, tax and 
exceptional items is down 7% due to 
expected price reductions in the ﬁrst year  
of the AMP period for Severn Trent Water 
and a disappointing second half 
performance in Severn Trent Services,  
in challenging market conditions.
From the new dividend base of 65.09p we 
will grow the dividend by 3% above RPI up 
to 2014/15. 
Underlying ﬁnancial performance remains 
strong and we continued to outperform our 
regulatory targets.
Severn Trent Water
With our focus on operational excellence 
and continuous improvement, our goal is  
to keep prices low and deliver the highest 
customer service and environmental 
standards.
Overall, we achieved these goals in the past 
year. We delivered industry-leading drinking 
water quality and reduced the number of 
incidents of sewer ﬂooding, one of the 
biggest causes of distress to our customers. 
Our customers also beneﬁted from the 
lowest combined average water and 
sewerage bills in England and Wales.
In these straitened times, we’ve carried  
on helping customers who have difﬁculties 
paying their bills and as a result we have 
also been able to reduce bad debt.
Environmental performance continues to  
be strong and we are reinforcing our leading 
position in renewable energy generation, 
with 22% of Severn Trent Water’s electricity 
requirements being met by self-generated 
renewables. Some of that was generated  
by the UK’s ﬁrst commercial scale crops to 
energy plant, which was opened this year. 
Leakage was above target as a result of the 
severe winter weather. However, despite 
signiﬁcant operational challenges we 
maintained our leakage at the same level as 
last year. Unplanned interruptions to supply 
also increased during the year. 
Steps are in place to improve the resilience 
of our water distribution network, but I would 
like to pay tribute to our people who, faced 
with unprecedented operational challenges, 
kept customer supplies running over this 
difﬁcult period. 
That we are able to work in such a ﬂexible 
and responsive way is thanks in part to the 
changes we have made to our internal 
operations. This year we moved to our new 
operating centre, Severn Trent Centre in 
Coventry, bringing together under one roof 
many teams previously dispersed over 
seven older buildings. We have transformed 
our technology infrastructure and 
implemented the second phase of SAP 
which will help us to run our business more 
effectively.
Once again, I would like to use this 
opportunity to thank our people for the way 
they have responded to such a signiﬁcant 
change in technology and ways of working.
Severn Trent Services
The economic environment remained 
especially challenging for our Severn Trent 
Services business, which started the year 
well only to experience a market downturn  
in the second half.
While the underlying market is growing and 
demand remains strong, projects are being 
delayed as project ﬁnancing has been less 
available and slower to obtain. In addition, 
political uncertainty in the Middle East, a key 
market for our water puriﬁcation products, 
and the moratorium on deep well drilling  
in the US, led to lower sales of our highly 
successful electrochlorination product line. 
In the US, in particular, municipal budget 
shortfalls have limited infrastructure 
spending on products while driving more 
project opportunities for outsourcing in our 
Operating Services units.
Looking ahead
At Severn Trent Water, with strong 
underlying performance and the right 
people, technology and AMP5 contracts  
in place, we are well placed to achieve  
our business plan and outperform our 
regulatory targets. 
In Severn Trent Services, the prospects for 
long term growth remain good, but the ﬁrst 
half of the coming year is likely to see the 
same market conditions that prevailed at the 
end of last year. With a good portfolio of 
business and products, we are conﬁdent  
of returning to proﬁtable and sustainable 
growth once the public ﬁnances start to 
recover and the political and regulatory 
uncertainty in key markets subside.
In terms of prospects for regulatory and 
industry change, Severn Trent remains at 
the forefront of industry thinking and our 
ideas for a sustainable future for our  
industry have been widely published  
and well received. 
Throughout our operations, our goal 
continues to be to deliver long term 
sustainable growth. This strategy, 
underpinned by a clear focus on customers, 
environmental performance, people and 
shareholder value will continue.
2010 £125
2011 £161
2006 £100
2007 £128
2008 £132
2009 £97
Total shareholder return 
2006–2011
