 SHAFT SINKERS ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2012
4
Chairman’s Statement
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS
THE PAST YEAR HAS BEEN A 
CHALLENGING AND TURBULENT ONE 
FOR THE GLOBAL ECONOMY AND 
ESPECIALL Y THE MINING INDUSTRY . 
Amid shareholder calls for stricter capital allocation 
and greater cash returns mining companies 
are under pressure to be more selective in the 
development of new projects.  Generally this has 
resulted in a reduction in capital expenditure or a 
slowing down of investment decisions for major 
projects. Despite this testing global environment 
your Company continues to experience high levels 
of tendering activity and has a GBP1.1 billion new 
business pipeline. 
In our key market of South Africa it has been a 
particularly demanding year which has undoubtedly 
affected our results negatively. Severe disruption 
was caused to the mining industry by a wave of wild 
cat strikes and whilst management worked hard 
to mitigate the effects of this action we could not 
escape the general impact on the entire industry 
in South Africa. Also in our key client base in the 
platinum sector it has been a particularly tough 
climate as producers faced severe margin pressure 
due to both rising costs and a subdued pricing 
environment. 
The future prospects of the South African mining 
industry are difﬁ cult to predict, with potentially 
arduous wage negotiations, expected to take place 
around June within a challenging environment.  
Against this industry backdrop Shaft Sinkers 
also encountered some operational issues at a 
number of its South African sites. However, action 
is being taken by management to deal with the 
disappointing slip in operational effectiveness, 
implementing efﬁ ciencies and restoring operational 
productivity which is expected to result in a stronger 
operating position in 2013. 
On a more pleasing note your Company was 
successful in its stated strategy of increasing its 
exposure to the global market by being awarded 
two major contracts for the Kibali joint venture 
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and 
Hindustan Zinc in India. Both these contract 
awards are testimony to the highly respected 
skills the Company is fortunate to possess and 
should add signiﬁ cantly to the Company’ s ﬁ nancial 
performance. 
In addition the implementation of our BEE 
strategy for our South African business has been 
acknowledged by the receipt of a rating certiﬁ cate 
indicating compliance with the ownership criteria.  
We are pleased to have created a broad based 
structure that includes our work force and qualiﬁ es 
us to meet the South African BEE requirements.
However, the illegal strikes in South Africa, the 
depreciation of the Rand, the later start date of 
newly awarded projects and operational problems 
all impacted proﬁ tability during the year under 
review.  
As we have announced previously Shaft Sinkers 
terminated its contract with EuroChem with effect 
from 20 April 2012 following a suspension by the 
client of our grouting efforts. In October Shaft 
Sinkers received a notice of arbitration claiming an 
amount of approximately USD800 million 
(GBP495 million). We have reviewed the arbitration 
claims, and after extensive consultation with legal 
counsel, continue to believe that the claims are 
without merit, and are contesting them robustly.  A 
claim for a net amount of USD15 million 
(GBP9.3 million) has been ﬁ led against EuroChem 
for amounts still owing under the contract.  
Health and Safety
Safety remains a strong focus for the Group 
and is supported by international best practice 
training and development programmes.  The 
Group’s key safety benchmarks have showed an 
improvement in 2013. 
Shaft_Sinkers_R&A_2013_Front end.indd   4 27/04/2013   00:55 5
Various campaigns and initiatives were introduced 
during 2012 to improve the safety culture in the 
Group and to continue to strive for zero harm to 
our employees in the challenging environment in 
which they operate.
Regrettably on 7 June 2012 Mr Salomão 
Chunguane was fatally injured at the Impala 17 
Fridge shaft operations after a fall of ground 
occurred on Level 21 development.
Dividend 
In October 2012 an interim dividend of 2.4 pence 
per share was paid.  Due to the lower than expected 
operational and ﬁ nancial performance in the second 
half of the year under review, and taking into 
consideration the current cash position of the Group, 
the Board has taken a prudent view and therefore is 
recommending not to pay a ﬁ nal dividend for 2012.
Due to the lower than expected operational and 
ﬁ nancial performance in the second half
of the year under review, and taking in to
consideration the current cash position of the Group, 
the Board has taken a prudent view and there is 
recommending not to pay a ﬁ nal dividend for 2012.
Despite the difﬁ culties experienced during the 
ﬁ nancial year the Board remains optimistic as to the 
Company’ s long term prospects for growth and the 
Board intends to resume its progressive dividend 
policy in due course. 
Strategy
Your Company is committed to continue with 
the strategic imperatives that formed part of 
our ambitions when we became a publicly listed 
company namely growing a strong global business 
through international expansion and commodity 
diversiﬁ cation, continuing the emphasis on best 
practice safety initiatives, enhancing our competitive 
position by improving operational efﬁ ciencies and 
effectiveness and seeking acquisition opportunities 
that have the potential to add value to our 
operations. 
People
I was appointed Chairman of the Board in 
August last year, following the resignation of 
my predecessor Amre Youness, having served 
previously as the Senior Independent Director since 
IPO. On behalf of the board and staff I would like to 
thank Amre for his extensive  efforts and signiﬁ cant 
contribution he made on behalf of the company 
over the two years that he was Chairman, including 
guiding the Company to a successful IPO in 2011. 
Also during the year we appointed Louis 
Germishuys as Chief Operating Ofﬁ cer. Louis brings 
over 24 years of international mining, sinking and 
contracting experience.  He has already made a 
signiﬁ cant contribution to the Company during a 
difﬁ cult period of operational challenges.  
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all 
our employees, my colleagues on the Board, 
our business partners, shareholders and all other 
stakeholders for their continued support.
Outlook
Throughout the year the company has experienced 
demand for its services from various regions as 
well as across numerous commodities. Every new 
opportunity is carefully assessed and the best suited 
prospects are being pursued aggressively.
We continue to actively seek and respond to queries 
and tenders from several countries that are part of 
our strategic focus. We are seeing increased activity 
in the gold, diamond and base metal markets and 
a slowdown in the platinum market, in all likelihood 
due to prevailing market conditions. The emergence 
of this trend reinforces our diversiﬁ cation strategy.
In spite of a disappointing year in 2012, the Board 
believes that we have made substantial progress 
in addressing that year’ s shortcomings and we are 
putting in place the right strategy and people to 
deliver growth in 2013 and beyond.
Stephen Oke
Chairman
25 April 2013
Shaft_Sinkers_R&A_2013_Front end.indd   5 27/04/2013   00:55
