 shanks.  annual report 2009      6  
Our priorities will remain in line with our vision of sustainable waste 
management focusing on the generation of energy from waste and 
recycling 
 
 
Chief Executive’s Statement 
 
My second year as Chief Executive of the Shanks Group takes place within a very 
different macroeconomic environment to the first. The credit crunch has led to 
negative GDP growth in all our markets, reduced the availability of capital and 
changed attitudes to gearing. 
 
We have reshaped our priorities and business model to the changed environment 
whilst continuing to deliver our long term strategy. The fundamental regulatory and 
legislative drivers are undiminished and the opportunities available to the business 
remain. It is important that we pursue them at the right time.  
 
Following strong trading in the first half of the year, we have been active in the 
second half in both taking the short term measures necessary to mitigate the profit 
impact of a sharp economic downturn as well as reshaping our business model to 
continue developing our strategy through a recession.   
 
This has necessitated a reassessment of how we generate adequate cash flow for 
investment whilst volumes in our core markets are declining. Our response, outlined 
more fully below, has been to be tough on reducing operating costs, working capital 
and maintenance capital expenditure and to be more active in recycling capital from 
disposal of non-core assets.  
 
Progress during the year 
Last year I set out the five key elements of our strategy for the Group and I am 
pleased to report progress against them. 
 
Invest to drive organic growth where returns are greatest 
 
Organic revenue growth in the first half year was 7%.  This fell during the second half 
year leaving annual growth of 3%.  This reflected principally the impact of a reduction 
in the level of waste arising in our industrial and commercial customer base and we 
expect the decline to continue during the coming year.  Our strategy of investing to 
drive growth does however mitigate the impact of this decline and we expect the full 
year benefits of the investments we have made in 2008/9 to contribute £7m to trading 
profit during 2009/10. 
 
Develop our infrastructure further to support sustainable waste management 
and conversion of waste to renewable energy 
 
We have commissioned a number of capital projects to improve our ability to deliver 
sustainable waste management solutions. These include new sorting lines at two of 
our Dutch recycling businesses, the new recycling/solid recovered fuel (SRF) 
facilities and anaerobic digestion plant in Belgium, composting plants in Canada and 
the Netherlands and additional engines in our landfill power division.  
 
Assets under construction include a further composting plant in Canada, a 
wastewater and anaerobic digestion facility in Amsterdam, a steam turbine and  shanks.  annual report 2009      7  
combined heat and power (CHP) plant in Belgium, as well as a new recycling facility 
in Glasgow.   
 
The UK PFI market is an important opportunity for Shanks to help the UK 
government develop sustainable alternatives to landfill. We have sought to 
complement our powerful mechanical biological treatment (MBT) technology offering 
through our newly formed joint venture with Wheelabrator, a subsidiary of Waste 
Management Inc.  This allows Shanks to offer an energy-from-waste proposition to 
those authorities who have chosen this as their preferred treatment technology. We 
are very pleased with the positive market response to the relationship with 
Wheelabrator and have been shortlisted on a number of authority tenders.  Our 
pipeline is as full as it has ever been, reflecting our increased investment in bidding 
during the year.   
 
Share our core capabilities and technologies within the Group 
 
This is an important cultural change for a Group that is used to operating in a 
decentralised way and inevitably takes some time to implement. However, we have 
made progress in launching the Orgaworld business in the UK which includes 
processing of food waste from Marks and Spencer’s stores. 
 
We are also working with our Benelux team in the design of our UK recycling facilities 
and have cross Group teams looking at a number of projects. 
 
Maximise asset utilisation and minimise unit costs 
 
We have taken steps to reduce our cost base during the year. In July 2008 we 
moved the Group Corporate Office from Bourne End to share the UK Head Office 
facility in Milton Keynes.  During the year we announced approximately 100 
redundancies in our UK and Belgian operations as a regrettable response to the 
downturn in trading. In all of our core operations we have been reducing variable 
costs as volumes reduce and cutting back on overhead expenditure.  Our plans for 
2009/10 include approximately £10m of savings in our fixed cost base to mitigate the 
profit impact of declining volumes. 
 
Continue to use acquisitions to improve asset utilisation and re-orient the 
portfolio to high growth markets 
 
In April 2008 we acquired the Foronex business in Belgium and despite difficult 
market conditions are pleased with trading in the final quarter as the benefits of our 
integration plan came through.   
 
To generate growth capital for our strategy we have been disposing of non core 
assets. In the UK we realised £5m from selling operations outside our strategic 
regions and have recently announced the sale of our interest in the Avondale landfill 
joint venture for a total consideration of up to £27.5m.  The Group has also market 
tested a number of other smaller disposals but has avoided proceeding with 
transactions at depressed prices which it does not believe represent good value for 
shareholders. We will continue to review opportunities to realise value from our non-
core assets and investments as appropriate.   
 
Culture 
I retain my belief in the fundamentally decentralised structure within the Group as this 
allows us to remain responsive to our changing customer needs in this fast moving 
environment. However, we will continue to promote the sharing of best practice  shanks.  annual report 2009      8  
where it can deliver tangible benefits. We will also look to implement a more 
structured performance management framework to allow us to benchmark 
performance, actively share best practice, improve our forecasting and provide the 
tools and information to allow our entrepreneurial managers to do what they do best 
– develop their business in their local markets. 
 
Performance 
Given the difficult market conditions I believe the Group delivered a creditable 
performance in 2008/9. Our focus in 2009/10 will be to minimise the impact of the 
downturn on the business and maintain strong relationships with our customers so 
that our performance picks up strongly as economic conditions recover.  
 
Our priorities will remain in line with our vision of sustainable waste management 
focusing on the generation of energy from waste and recycling. We expect growth 
within this strategy to come from three main areas: 
 
• Recycling  
• Organic processing, particularly through our Orgaworld technology 
• UK PFI opportunities 
 
 
Tom Drury 
Group Chief Executive 
