 SHAFT SINKERS ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2012
6
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s Statement
THE TOUGH TRADING ENVIRONMENT 
IN THE MINING INDUSTRY OVER 
THE PAST YEAR HAS AFFECTED OUR 
OPERATIONS AND PROFITABILITY. 
Our clients have been carefully evaluating 
expansion programs and refocusing on production 
efﬁ ciency. Whilst this may prolong the project 
decision making process we are still seeing a 
growing trend in demand for deep shafts to access 
increasingly deeper replacement reserves borne 
out by both our latest projects for Hindustan Zinc 
and Kibali Goldmine.
Most of our clients in South Africa were severely 
impacted by labour disputes throughout 2012 
and we were unable to escape the effects of the 
disputes. In most instances our contracts provide 
cost recovery of work interruption caused by the 
client but typically it excludes or limits recovery of 
proﬁ tability and does not cover low efﬁ ciency work 
restart and ramp-up period, the latter often having 
a bigger impact.
Our results were further impacted by 
underperformance at certain operations. During 
the ﬁ rst half of the year under review, our 
operations at Impala 16 and 17 suffered from 
inefﬁ ciencies caused by poor planning, labour over 
compliments, excessive overtime and logistical 
congestion that together culminated in target 
production not being met. Both projects were 
entering different phases of work which resulted 
in various changes in the operating environment 
which were not handled adequately by us.  
Change in scope or operating conditions can 
often lead to additional costs which need to be 
recovered by us through variation orders. Variation 
orders are covered in our contracts with our clients 
and have a deﬁ ned process for their generation, 
approval and payment. Inefﬁ ciencies in the 
variation order process has impacted our ﬁ nancial 
performance in certain projects as well as inﬂ ating 
our receivables and ultimately impacting cash ﬂ ow. 
It is, therefore, imperative as a contractor to be 
much more sensitive and pro-active to changes 
and to optimise the variation order recovery 
process. In order to address this, management 
have started restructuring the business by 
streamlining its control structures and introducing 
the requisite skills in order to better cope with 
change. Once these measures are implemented 
in 2013, we believe that we will be well placed 
to deal with the changes affecting our business. 
The illegal strikes, the depreciation of the Rand, 
the later start date of newly awarded projects and 
operational difﬁ culties all impacted on proﬁ tability .  
Management is conducting a review of the 
Group’s activities with a view to ensuring that 
costs are effectively managed and that the 
Group’s support structures are commensurate 
with its level of activity and growth prospects. 
Management has identiﬁ ed some initial areas 
where cost savings may be achieved. 
Revenue has decreased by 15  percent and proﬁ t 
from operations has dropped to GBP5.2 million 
(2011 GBP15.3 million before exceptional item 
of GBP3.1 million). Net proﬁ t after tax dropped 
to GBP2.4 million (2011: GBP8.7 million after 
exceptional item). Net cash decreased by GBP8.5 
million to net debt of GBP2.1 million due mainly 
to the lower proﬁ tability from operations and an 
increase in accounts receivable.
Operations
2012 saw a number of new contract wins and 
extensions of contracts including the award by 
Hindustan Zinc Limited, part of Vedanta, of a 
project for the sinking of the main shaft and 
north and south ventilation shafts at the Rampura 
Agucha mine, Rajasthan in western India.
This is a signiﬁ cant development for Shaft Sinkers 
and an important step in our international growth 
strategy. It is particularly pleasing, given our 
Shaft_Sinkers_R&A_2013_Front end.indd   6 27/04/2013   00:55 7
strong position in India and the potential future 
opportunities that may arise in the sub-continent.
In November Randgold Resources awarded the 
Company the vertical shaft contract at the Kibali 
gold mine (“Kibali”), in the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo(DRC). The combined mobilisation 
and vertical shaft contracts have an estimated 
total value of GBP82.3 million.  Kibali is a joint 
venture between mine operator, Randgold 
Resources (45%), AngloGold Ashanti (45%) and 
Congolese parastatal, Sokimo (10%). The project 
is situated near Doko, in the north eastern 
Orientale province of the DRC.
Operations – South Africa
At Impala 16 the equipping of the main shaft 
progressed well during 2012. The development, 
however, undertaken via the ventilation shaft 
performed below expectation resulting in cost 
overruns as a result of overtime and over-
complement of personnel. Contractual cost 
escalations in addition to the contract duration 
being extended, have added a further GBP5.9 
million to the order book.
Operational performance at Impala 17 was met 
with under recovery of revenue through the low 
rates billed for the Fridge shaft, which should be 
rectiﬁ ed by the middle of 2013 with a revised 
contract. Construction activities performed via 
the ventilation shaft proved to be a challenge 
and management has taken decisive action to 
mitigate the situation.  The Leeuwkop contract 
with Afplats performed to management’s 
expectations and we were awarded an extension 
of the contract to sink the main shaft from 488 
metres to a depth of 700 metres below surface. 
Current depth is a little over 600m and  is 
scheduled to be completed at the end of May 
2013 and adds a total value of GBP7.0 million to 
the order book. A further extension is anticipated
Work at the Moab project undertaken for 
AngloGold Ashanti recovered to management’s 
expectations after being negatively affected by 
strike action. The rescheduled work programme is 
progressing according to the contract and is now 
achieving average monthly  target rates of 600 
cubic meters.
The Hernic Ferrochrome project at the Bokone 
shaft (previously named Bokfontein) performed in 
line with management’s expectations.
Work at Lonmin’s Saffy project progressed well, in 
line with management’s expectations. The proﬁ t 
margin earned was negatively impacted by the 
loss of efﬁ ciency following the illegal strikes;  our 
claims for costs were submitted and have mostly 
been settled. Work at the Hossy shaft performed 
to expectation but was deferred due to austerity 
measures within the client’s business. Karee 3 
shaft work progressed well but more recently 
there has been ﬁ nancial underperformance 
due to historically low rates. This has now been 
rectiﬁ ed by changing the contract to an Agreed 
Target Cost (ATC) contract in 2013. 
At the Styldrift project operations performed 
well in terms of the sinking rate, but during the 
last quarter we under-recovered revenue for 
horizontal level development operations due to a 
low rate charged per cubic metre for that section 
of the work. This is to be  addressed by seeking 
agreement with the client on revised rates and 
which is expected to be concluded  in the ﬁ rst 
half of 2013.
South African labour situation
The Group’s operations in South Africa have now 
returned to normal from a labour perspective, 
however the company is aware of the 
continued sensitivity in the South African labour 
environment. We are continuously engaging with 
all our labour representatives in order to ensure 
Shaft_Sinkers_R&A_2013_Front end.indd   7 27/04/2013   00:55 8
cooperation and stability . At Lonmin’s Saffy shaft, 
workers returned to work from the illegal strike 
on Monday 29 October. In total, 11 working days 
were lost as a result of this action, which resulted 
in a negative impact on the project’s margins.
At AngloGold Ashanti’s Moab project, workers 
reported for duty and operations were back 
to normal on 30 October 2012. In total, 25 
working days were lost as a result of this action. 
The Company is in discussions with the client 
regarding costs incurred during this period.
Health and Safety
The year ended with an improved safety 
performance when compared to the previous 
year. In line with the business review we have 
recently undertaken, we have introduced various 
structural changes in order to further improve 
safety in the daily operations of the business. 
Safety will receive the constant attention of 
management. The safety department has become 
more independent giving it more oversight into 
the operations. Our focus on safety is being 
recognised by our clients. We were awarded best 
contractor in the safety category by Lonmin. This 
signiﬁ cant achievement was enhanced by the 
fact that our K3 project at Lonmin has recently 
recorded a 4 million fatality free shift mark. 
Safety remains a strong focus for the Group 
and is supported by training and development 
programmes.  The Group’s lost time injury 
frequency rate (LTIFR) has decreased from 4.75* 
to 4.08.
Regrettably, on 7 June 2012 the Group suffered 
a fatal injury at the Impala 17 Fridge Shaft 
operations after a fall of ground occurred on 
Level 21 development. 
The Group constantly searches for new and 
innovative ways to instil a safety culture at 
every level of the organisation. During the last 
quarter of 2012, the “Mteto” campaign was 
launched across all the operations. The focus 
of this campaign was to get “back to basics” 
and instil adherence to standards. In addition, 
a longer term safety campaign was  rolled out 
called “Snakes for Safety”. These campaigns 
will be enhanced during 2013 by introducing 
interventions which will address areas where 
the Company experienced high incidence of  
accidents during 2012. The Group has introduced 
a system of cross-audits between the various sites 
as well as speciﬁ c campaigns to address “Material 
Handling” and “Tools and Equipment” related 
injuries. During 2012 these two aspects were 
responsible for 60% of injuries. An additional 
motivational campaign called “One Step More” 
was launched which encourages our employees 
to go the extra mile in ensuring we have safe 
operations.
The groups benchmarks for 2013 have been set 
based on the achievements of 2012 and have 
been mapped out as:  Non Lost Time Injury 
Frequency Rate (NLTIFR): 6.00, Lost Time Injury 
Frequency Rate (LTIFR): 3.5 and the Reportable 
Injury Frequency Rate (RIFR) at 2.5.  
Operations - International
The Hindustan Zinc project at the Rampura 
Agucha mine was awarded in May 2012 and 
work commenced immediately. The latter half 
of 2012 saw the project underperform due to 
logistical difﬁ culties encountered mainly with our 
sub-contractor on-site. Various alternative steps 
are being taken to meet the milestones on the 
project and management is conﬁ dent that 2013 
will demonstrate an improved performance.
In November 2012 the Company was awarded the 
vertical shaft contract at Kibali Goldmine. During the 
start-up phase of the project we experienced some 
logistical challenges, but after various initiatives were 
taken, operations are back on track.
* 2011 ﬁ gures are restated
Shaft_Sinkers_R&A_2013_Front end.indd   8 27/04/2013   00:55 SHAFT SINKERS ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2012
9
Our Mining Engineering and Technical Services 
(METS) division continues to ﬁ nd new opportunities 
for design and EPCM contracts. A team from 
METS was mobilised in 2013 to commence work 
at the Poderosa project in Peru. The CIS ofﬁ ce was 
contracted to perform a desktop study for Kazzinc 
a subsidiary of Glencore in Kazakhstan - a very 
important step in our CIS strategy.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Shaft Sinkers recognizes Corporate Social 
Responsibility as a business imperative and 
is engaging with clients, communities and 
stakeholders to enable the Group to meet the 
needs of each territory in which it operates.
Shaft Sinkers implements various initiatives 
ranging from Adult Based Education and Training 
(ABET) classes  which is aimed at improving the 
literacy of our unskilled employees, to increasing 
employment from the surrounding community. 
Black Economic Empowerment 
Our BEE structure and credentials are in place. As 
this becomes an exceedingly important criterion 
for contractor selection in South Africa our structure 
has been completed and rated as compliant. 
Management took care at creating a far reaching 
equitable structure that empowers its work force 
meaningfully. The response from the Unions was 
extremely positive. Our new BEE partners are a 
good mix of experience, enthusiasm and youth. 
We are encouraged by the depth and experience 
represented amongst our BEE partners.   
Research and Development
Our research and development programmes are 
progressing in line with previous announcements 
in this regard. Development work on the 
SightPower shaft scanning technology we have 
invested in continues and we are nearing the 
introduction of the beta version, which will be the 
prototype for marketing to our clients.
Working capital
At 31 December the Group was carrying 
approximately GBP13 million of outstanding 
amounts for variation orders. At the last practical 
date of this report there was an amount of 
approximately GBP7 million that remained to be 
collected, most of which is scheduled for the end 
of May 2013.
Order book and tendering activity
At 31 December 2012 the order book stood 
at GBP346 million (H1 2012: GPB348 million) 
(revenue to be billed on committed contracts).
The Group has £1.1 billion of outstanding tenders 
or price submissions (H1 2012: GBP1.1 billion) on 
16 projects. Approximately 58 per cent in value, 
representing six projects, are outside of South 
Africa and 75 per cent in value, representing nine 
projects, are non-platinum related projects.
Management continues to actively pursue a 
number of new tenders with geographic and 
commodity diversity.  The Group believes it is 
well placed to secure a number of these tenders.
Looking ahead, a key focus will be implementing 
more efﬁ cient control structures that will return 
operations to their optimal levels. With a stable 
operating environment, management will be 
freed to intensify efforts to convert prospects into 
order book. We are positive about the prospects 
that the company is pursuing. We expect our 
operations in 2013 to improve, and look forward 
to achieving our planned growth. 
Alon Davidov
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
25 April 2013
Shaft_Sinkers_R&A_2013_Front end.indd   9 27/04/2013   00:55
