 shanks. annual report 2008 3
chairman’s statement
We have a clear strategy for growing
the business to create long term value
for all our stakeholders
Financial Performance
I am pleased to be able to report upon
another good set of financial results for
the year to 31 March 2008. Group
revenue increased by 11% to £564m and
headline profit rose 11% to £44.8m. This
improvement reflects strong trading in the
majority of our businesses, the principal
exception being landfill in Belgium which,
as expected, reported a reduced
contribution as new legislative restrictions
came into effect. Adjusted basic earnings
per share improved by 10% to 12.9p after
a reduction in the headline tax rate of 1%
to 32%.
Recognising the improving long term
growth prospects of the Group the Board
in future intends to follow a progressive
dividend policy, which balances earnings
growth and cash generation with the
future investment needs of the Group.
This year your Board is recommending a
final dividend of 4.2p per share which
together with the interim dividend
produces a total dividend of 6.2p, a 5%
increase on last year.
People
The good results for the year reflect the
efforts of all our employees across the
Group. Shanks is a service business and
delivering consistently high levels of
customer service in such an environment
is only possible with a highly committed
workforce. On behalf of the Board I would
like to thank them for their hard work and
commitment.
During the year Tom Drury took over from
Michael Averill as Group Chief Executive.
The Board is very pleased with the smooth
transition and the fresh perspective that
he has brought to the Group. At the
Board’s request Tom undertook a thorough
review of the Group’s activities and we
believe that this has provided us with
clarity of direction and focus for our
investment plans going forward. This is
described in the Chief Executive’s
statement and the Business Overview.
At the end of March 2008 the Head of
our Dutch business Fred Knitel retired
from the Group after 14 years of
dedicated service to Shanks and its
predecessor companies. Fred led the
development of our Dutch business as
managing director from 2000 and was
successful in positioning Shanks as one
of the leading waste management
companies in the Netherlands with a clear
market focus and strong financial
performance. We would like to thank Fred
for his contribution to the Group and wish
him well for the future. 
I am delighted that we were able to
replace Fred through an internal
appointment and on 1 April 2008 Michael
van Hulst was appointed managing
director of the Netherlands. Michael was
previously general manager of Icova, one
of our largest companies in the
Netherlands and has 17 years experience
in the waste industry.
Corporate Responsibility
Shanks operates in a highly regulated
industry which rightly requires high
standards of health and safety and
environmental compliance. It is also an
industry that is undergoing considerable
change and is increasingly seen as an
important contributor to supporting
governments’ efforts to manage
resources and control climate change.
Shanks is committed to playing its fullest
part in this challenge and achieving the
highest professional standards in all its
operations. Whilst we have a proud record
in this area we will continue to examine
ways to improve further our performance
and measure our contribution to a society
based upon more sustainable waste
management techniques. We will be
setting specific targets during 2008. 
It was pleasing during the year to report a
21% reduction in reportable accident rate,
with particular improvements in our
Belgian business. Whilst there were some
enforcement actions by regulators relating
to our environmental permits, these were
relatively minor and our performance
remains good in this area compared to
our peers. Finally, last year we submitted
a response to the Business in the
Environment (BiE) index of corporate
environmental engagement and I am
pleased that we improved our
assessment from a silver to a gold band.
Outlook
The Board is confident concerning the
future prospects for the Group. The full
year effect of the recent decline in landfill
volumes in Belgium should be more than
compensated by improved performances
in the rest of the Group. As a result the
Board continues to expect a good overall
performance in 2009 with increasing
growth thereafter as the Group benefits
from its more focused investment plans.
Adrian Auer
Chairman
