 shanks.  annual report 2009      3  
Trading performance remains resilient despite the economic 
slowdown.  The approach to delivering our strategy has been 
adapted to increase the focus on maximising the short to medium 
term cash position 
 
 
Chairman’s Statement 
 
The economic environment in which the Group operates changed dramatically during 
the second half of 2008, with all countries in the Eurozone now experiencing sharp 
declines in GDP.  This has led to reductions in the amount of consumer and industrial 
waste produced and a fall in the value of materials recovered from waste. The speed 
and severity of this slowdown in economic activity impacted on all companies in the 
waste sector.   
 
Against this background, the financial results for the year demonstrate the robust 
make-up of our business portfolio.  Underlying profit before tax rose 8% to £48.5m.  
This reflected growth of 13% in the first half year, slowing to 4% in the second half as 
a result of the progressively deteriorating economic conditions.   
 
People 
The change in economic outlook during the year has required our people to adapt 
very rapidly. We have strong operational management across the Group and they 
have responded quickly and decisively to the challenges facing them.  On behalf of 
the Board I would like to thank all of our employees for their commitment and 
creativity.  We have achieved some major milestones during the year and they 
should all feel proud of these achievements.   
 
In April 2009 we announced the appointment of Chris Surch as Group Finance 
Director on the departure of Fraser Welham.  Prior to joining Shanks, Chris held a 
number of senior positions for Smiths Group plc, most recently as Finance Director of 
the Specialty Engineering Division.  Chris brings years of industry and operational 
expertise to Shanks from his time at Smiths Group and previously TI Group plc.  On 
behalf of the Board I would like to record our appreciation to Fraser for everything he 
has done over the last thirteen years with the Group.   
 
Strategic Progress 
The tougher external environment will require us to be even more focused and 
disciplined in the pursuit of our long term strategy for the Group.   
 
In response to the quite exceptional prevailing economic conditions, the stewardship 
of the Group’s cash position has become a key strategic priority.  We are taking 
action to realise value from non-core assets, and have initiated a range of cost 
saving measures across the Group. In addition, efforts to improve the efficient use of 
capital in the business have resulted in a marked reduction in expenditure on 
maintenance, and a sharply improved working capital performance.   
 
These actions confirm our determination to position the Group to participate in the 
market’s transition to more sustainable waste management solutions.  Despite the 
present economic climate, the environmental challenges facing society have not 
changed, and to meet these challenges the pace of legislative change has 
accelerated.  In this context it was pleasing to see the UK Government’s recent  shanks.  annual report 2009      4  
budget commitment to provide significant funding to support the PFI process and the 
decision to further increase landfill tax.   
 
With a portfolio offering proven landfill diversion and waste to energy technologies 
ranging from anaerobic digestion, biological treatment and incineration, Shanks is 
well positioned to selectively realise very attractive opportunities in our core markets.   
 
Financial Position 
In April 2009 we announced the successful refinancing of the Group’s £250m 
medium term bank facility.  This was a significant achievement which secured an 
increase in funding from an expanded group of financial institutions, in a very difficult 
funding market.   
 
In this recessionary environment, capacity to continue to invest will be critical to the 
long term market positioning and profitability of the Group.   
 
Strengthening our capital structure 
The Group has historically maintained what was considered to be an appropriate 
level of borrowings given the prevailing economic environment.  Given the prospect 
of a difficult trading environment in 2009/10, we intend to continue our actions to 
preserve cash and reduce net debt.  In order to further strengthen the position of the 
Group, the Board believes it is both appropriate and in the best interests of its 
shareholders to raise net proceeds of approximately £66.7 million equity via a Rights 
Issue which we announced on 21 May 2009. 
 
We intend to use the net proceeds of this Rights Issue to reduce the level of 
indebtedness which in the short term will increase headroom and ensure balance 
sheet strength in case of any further unforeseen deterioration in market conditions.  
We have a clear growth strategy in place based around three key areas (Recycling, 
Organic processing (including Orgaworld), and UK PFI), and funding for these will be 
provided by the proceeds of targeted non-core disposals and also strong cash flow 
generation once economic conditions start to improve. 
 
Dividend 
The Company will not be recommending a final 2009 dividend.  Following the Rights 
Issue, the Board expects to pay an interim and final dividend for the year to 31 March 
2010, and then to implement a progressive dividend policy within a cover range of 
2.0 to 2.5. 
 
The Board 
The Board has also had to adapt very quickly to the changing economic 
circumstances, and I would like to thank my Board colleagues for their unreserved 
commitment and professionalism in addressing the challenges facing the Group.   
 
For investors, these are also difficult times, and it is critically important that they have 
confidence in the qualification and decisions of the Board, and also that the Board 
can be held accountable for its decisions.  In recognition of the need to strengthen 
this accountability the Board will present to the AGM in July a resolution proposing 
the annual re-election of all Non-executive Directors.   
 
Remuneration 
The Board is mindful of the understandable public and investor focus on the 
remuneration of senior executives in the current climate, particularly in those 
companies where earnings are under pressure. The Remuneration Report sets out 
the steps we have taken to demonstrate responsiveness to these concerns, whilst  shanks.  annual report 2009      5  
also ensuring the continued motivation of our senior management team in what are 
quite exceptional operating conditions. 
 
Corporate Responsibility 
Shanks operates in a sector which is increasingly seen to have an important role in 
managing the impact of climate change and improving the re-use of the world’s finite 
resources. This year the Group will publish its first Corporate Responsibility Report, 
which sets out some clear commitments and reports progress on a number of 
important indicators.  This will include a calculation of the Group’s carbon footprint, 
together with the impact our activities can have on wider carbon emissions. We have 
also established a Group Corporate Responsibility Committee which reports directly 
into the Executive Committee to ensure a consistent and committed focus across the 
Group. 
 
Outlook 
The outlook for the near term is undoubtedly more challenging than twelve months 
ago. In the Netherlands our exposure to the construction sector has seen the 
profitability of our Dutch Solid Waste business reduce over recent months and other 
parts of the business have also been impacted. However, we have taken decisive 
action to reduce costs and conserve cash and the benefits of recent investments will 
come through during the current financial year.   
 
We expect the current year to remain challenging, but the Group is well positioned 
with strong market positions and proven technologies to deliver attractive earnings 
growth once the wider economic outlook improves.   
 
 
 
 
Adrian Auer 
Chairman 
 
