 4 shanks. annual report 2008
I joined as Group Chief Executive on 
1 October 2007 and since then have
managed to visit all of our major sites in
the Netherlands, Belgium, Canada and
the UK and met many of the people upon
whom we rely for our success. My overall
impression is that Shanks is a great
company to be joining at an exciting time
for the industry. Governments across the
world are urging the waste industry to
support them in recovering more
resources and energy from the things that
society throws away. They are providing
economic incentives to increase recycling
through taxation on landfill and in some
cases incineration, alongside subsidies
for treatment processes that support the
production of renewable energy from
waste. The new European Directive on
Waste currently moving through the
European Parliament will provide further
legislative support for this trend.
Shanks is well placed to prosper in this
changing environment. Our Group
operates in countries with the highest
recycling rates in Europe and has
experience of a number of treatment
processes capable of producing
renewable energy from waste. We have
set ourselves the aspiration to be
regarded as Europe’s leading sustainable
waste management company and will be
working hard over the coming years to
achieve this goal. 
Strategy
Having reviewed the business during my
first six months I believe there is an
exciting opportunity to generate attractive
returns for investors by focusing our
investment around sustainable waste
management in all of the countries in
which we operate. There is sufficient
market opportunity for us to generate high
organic growth rates from such
investment with a lower risk profile than a
growth strategy based solely on
acquisitions. 
Our Group strategy going forward is
therefore a simple one: to deliver organic
growth by investing in assets that support
sustainable waste management and are
capable of delivering attractive returns on
capital. Alongside this we will actively
share expertise and technology across
the Group whilst retaining a very strong
focus on keeping our unit costs amongst
the lowest in the industry. Finally, we will
use acquisitions to improve capacity
utilisation (our “tuck-in” model) or to
secure capabilities that re-orient the
Group to higher growth activities.
The potential for this growth strategy was
shown in this year’s financial results with
all major business units growing well
ahead of inflation other than our Belgian
landfill which, as expected, delivered a
reduced contribution.
Our investments in each of our country
operations during the year reflected the
strategic intent highlighted above.
chief executive’s statement
Our vision is to be Europe’s leading
provider of sustainable waste
management solutions shanks. annual report 2008 5
The Netherlands
Strategy
Maintain our premium margins and grow
our Solid and Hazardous Waste
businesses ahead of GDP with higher
growth coming from Orgaworld and tuck-in
acquisitions.
Our Dutch business generated a trading
margin of 13% in 2008, a performance
which compares favourably with its peers.
Our goal is to maintain this premium
position whilst growing the business.
The acquisition of Orgaworld in April 2007
for €30m plus a five year earn-out of up
to €20m provides the Group with strong
capabilities to process source segregated
organic waste using advanced composting
or anaerobic digestion technologies.
These are technologies that have very
attractive growth potential in a number of
international markets. Already a leading
player in the Dutch organics market
serving both municipal and commercial
customers, we have been able to achieve
a strong market position in the Canadian
market through the application of
Orgaworld’s composting product. Long
term contracts in Toronto and Ottawa with
a total contract value of approximately
Can$250m were secured during the year.
We are also actively looking to introduce
its products into the UK and Belgian
markets.
We invested a further €18m (including
€3m of deferred payments) in 4 small
tuck-in acquisitions in the Netherlands
aimed at improving capacity utilisation
and increasing our local market share.
Our commitment to keeping at the
forefront of recycling in the Dutch market
was demonstrated by the completion of
an investment of €3m in the latest
recycling technology at our Vliko plant in
Leiderdorp.
Belgium
Strategy 
Grow our Industrial & Commercial (I&C)
Solid Waste business to replace declining
landfill profits by securing competitive
disposal outlets and through renewable
energy production.
In 2008 landfill accounted for around a
third of the Belgian profits, already down
from nearly 50% in 2007. The
contribution from this activity is falling as
the government seeks to ban municipal
biodegradable waste from going to landfill
and we are therefore creating profitable
alternatives by focusing on processing
I&C, organic and wood waste in a way
that creates a fuel source or renewable
energy at a lower overall cost than
traditional alternatives.
We invested in organic growth projects to
produce solid recovered fuel (SRF) from
I&C customers at our Ghent plant and in
the provision of anaerobic digestion and
wastewater treatment at our Roeselare
plant. Both of these will generate energy
from waste and support strong growth for
our non-landfill I&C business in Belgium.
Shortly after the year end we announced
the acquisition of the Foronex Group for a
consideration of €23m. Foronex is a
leading player in the wood waste and by-
products market in the Benelux and a
significant provider of wood based
products to the rapidly growing energy
from biomass marketplace. We see good
opportunities to support the continued
growth of this exciting business and to
access more profitable outlets for the
230,000 tonnes of waste wood we
currently process each year in the
Benelux.
UK
Strategy 
Make Shanks the preferred alternative to
landfill. By establishing a network of
processing centres based on the Shanks
Benelux model.
Having sold its landfill assets in 2004,
Shanks is well positioned to take
advantage of rising landfill taxation to
divert waste we collect to processing
centres that we will create similar to
those in our Benelux businesses. We will
continue to grow our municipal treatment
business through participation in Public
Finance Initiative (PFI) projects.
In November 2007 we completed the
acquisition of Wastecom for £11m to
provide us with advanced recycling
capability in the Kettering area. Building
on the success of recent investments in
Scotland, this further supports our belief
that there is a profitable opportunity in the
UK to develop a strong recycling business
using our expertise from the Benelux. In
April 2008 landfill tax rose by the highest
amount ever (£8 per tonne) on its way to a
target of £48 per tonne by 2010. The
government has confirmed its commitment
to further increases beyond this point and
this provides the right incentive for
investment in recycling and reprocessing
centres. We have targeted three regions in
the UK which in the short to medium term
will provide the geographic focus to build
our business. These are the Central Belt
of Scotland, the East Midlands and the
Northern Home Counties. We have
identified the sites that we would like to
develop and will be applying for planning
permission shortly. These, together with
continued tuck-in acquisitions, will support
the development of a profitable UK
recycling business. 6 shanks. annual report 2008
We continue to believe that the UK PFI
market offers attractive opportunities for
Shanks. Over the next ten years the
government estimates £10bn of funding
will be required to upgrade the
infrastructure needed to divert the
biodegradable municipal solid waste away
from landfill. Shanks has taken a strong
position in the market through its
proposition based upon the innovative
EcoDeco mechanical biological treatment
(MBT) technology. We believe this remains
a very attractive solution to the needs of
local authorities and so creates a strong
pipeline of opportunities as authorities
move to meet their 2010 and 2013
reduction targets. We continue our
negotiations with Cumbria County Council
where we are preferred bidder and expect
this opportunity to reach financial closure
during the current financial year.
Culture
Shanks has a highly decentralised
structure that has allowed it to keep its
central overheads low and maintain an
entrepreneurial culture in its operating
units. This, in my view, has been a
strength of Shanks and one which I
intend to retain. Waste collection and
processing remains essentially a local
business and it is important that decision
making is as close to the customer as
possible. It has also proved an important
factor in persuading entrepreneurial
managers who join the Group through
acquisition to remain with us. 
This said however, our strategy going
forward will be to focus on building
recycling and energy recovery activities
across the Group and it makes good
sense to share the technologies and
years of expertise that we have within the
Group. The Executive Committee, which
consists of the managing directors of the
three countries together with myself and
the Group Finance Director, meets
regularly and part of its remit is to ensure
that such knowledge transfer takes place.
We will focus on specific projects and
opportunities and will not seek to
centralise activities that are best done
locally, thereby avoiding the build-up of
unnecessary overhead. 
Performance
We are committed to producing attractive
returns for the owners of the business.
We have analysed our portfolio and have
identified where the best opportunities for
maximising returns on capital employed
(ROCE) are. Whilst our current overall
ROCE of 12% is ahead of our weighted
average cost of capital (WACC), we believe
that we can and should generate greater
returns from our capital base and will be
looking for our new investments to
contribute to this improvement alongside
improving the cash generation and
profitability of our underlying existing
businesses.
Tom Drury
Group Chief Executive 
chief executive’s statement continued
