 Shanks Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
The Group’s strategy of providing 
sustainable waste management 
solutions has continued to gain 
traction this year. 
Our investment programme is generating good 
returns and we have delivered earnings growth 
despite continued tough economic conditions. 
In particular, activity levels in the Benelux region 
have remained slow. However, our business 
centres on ‘making more from waste’ and 
we had another good year in this respect. 
Our recycling and recovery rate reached an 
all-time high for the Group at 78%. This is an 
industry-leading level of recycling and reﬂects 
our strategic focus on sustainable alternatives 
to landﬁll and mass incineration.
We have continued to make investments in new 
infrastructure during the year, as we have 
throughout this recession. This ongoing 
investment has been enabled by management’s 
continued actions on trading and operational 
gains, together with tight cost and cash 
management. The combination of new facilities 
coming on line, and lean operations, will put us in a 
strong position as underlying economies improve. 
We were disappointed not to progress a number 
of UK municipal waste contracts, however our PFI 
portfolio has performed very well. We achieved 
ﬁnancial close on the £750m Barnsley, Doncaster 
and Rotherham contract in March 2012 and our 
existing PFI businesses have continued to perform 
strongly with signiﬁcant improvements in trading 
margins to the 9%–10% range. This represents a 
signiﬁcant turnaround from the loss making position 
just three years ago and we are conﬁdent the gains 
will be sustained. Our Benelux business produced 
a robust performance in tough markets with 
Hazardous Waste delivering strong proﬁt gains from 
international contract growth. This helped offset 
domestic price pressures in the Solid Waste business 
resulting from lower volumes and incineration 
overcapacity, particularly in the Netherlands.
The industry in which we operate continues to 
evolve at pace. The challenge of protecting the 
environment and developing new sources of 
energy, while stimulating economic growth is 
intensifying. At the same time, society needs to 
deal with waste in a more responsible way than 
simply burying or burning it. Shanks is well placed 
to provide both cost-effective and sustainable 
waste management solutions. In our treatment 
processes we also produce valuable products, 
including green energy, recovered fuel and 
recyclates that minimise our reliance on ﬁnite raw 
materials. We therefore continue to invest in 
sustainable facilities and technologies that will meet 
future needs and improve the world we live in, as 
well as generate strong returns for shareholders. 

At the year-end the ratio of core net debt to 
EBITDA stood at 1.7 times, well within our 
banking covenant test of 3 times and our target 
Chairman’s statement

 Group Chairman Shanks Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
of less than 2.5 times. This has been achieved 
through operational delivery and robust cash 
management. Following the re-ﬁnancing last year 
which extended our debt proﬁle, we now have 
funding in place with maturities in the three to six 
year range, at an average cost of 5%. This stable 
and ﬂexible funding structure is an essential 
platform upon which to build our future growth.

Underlying earnings per share for the year grew 
by 1 1% to 7 .2 pence. Consistent with our stated 
policy of maintaining dividend cover between 
2 and 2.5 times, the Board will be recommending 
a ﬁnal dividend of 2.35 pence per share, payable 
on 1 August 2012 to shareholders on the register 
on 6 July 2012. It remains the Board’s intention to 
pursue a progressive dividend policy as earnings 
per share increases.

The Board was pleased to appoint Peter Dilnot as 
the Group’s new Chief Executive, who joined us 
from Danaher Corporation on 1 February 2012. 
We would like to express our appreciation to Tom 
Drury, Peter’s predecessor, for his leadership and 
contribution during his four years as Chief Executive. 
We would also like to thank Chris Surch for his role 
as Acting Chief Executive until Peter’s arrival. 
Once again, on behalf of the Board, I would like to 
thank all Shanks’ employees for their tremendous 
efforts in providing excellent services to our 
customers during another challenging year. 
Our people are the key to our future success and 
under Peter’s overall leadership we are increasing 
the focus on developing the Group’s teams and 
capabilities. To improve understanding of what 
Shanks does for its people and their contribution 
to the Group, we have introduced a new section 
on ‘Our culture and people’ in this report (see 
pages 34 to 37).
It is increasingly important for us to understand the 
full range of our people’s capabilities, skills and 
perspectives. We have many talented people in the 
Group and embracing diversity further will help 
create a stronger team. Managing and building a 
diverse workforce is not only the right thing to do, 
it is also valuable for our business. By effectively 
harnessing all of our people’s talents we will be 
more innovative and serve our customers better. 
On 14 May 2012 the Board announced that Chris 
Surch, Group Finance Director, will be leaving the 
Company with effect from 31 August 2012, to join 
FirstGroup plc as Group Finance Director. We will 
be sorry to see Chris go, but we can see that this 
is an exciting new challenge for him and we are 
grateful to Chris for the signiﬁcant contribution he 
has made over the last three years. A search for his 
successor has commenced.

The Board is committed to the highest standards 
of corporate governance. Details on our 
processes and approach, including those relating 
to the role and effectiveness of the Board and 
compliance with the Governance Code are set 
out in the Governance section on pages 68 to 74. 

I am pleased to report continued progress in 
delivering against our nine clear Corporate 
Responsibility commitments. These include 
quantiﬁed targets for carbon avoidance, employee 
wellbeing and recycling and recovery rates. 
Further details are given on pages 38 to 41 of this 
report. Our ongoing focus in these areas has once 
again been recognised by Shanks’ inclusion in the 
independently assessed FTSE4Good Index.
Shanks has one of the lowest reported accident 
ﬁgures in the waste industry. However we will not 
be satisﬁed until we have zero accidents and this 
remains a key goal. Our Group-wide ‘Action on 
Safety’ initiative has been led strongly by the 
Group’s senior management and signiﬁcant time 
has been invested in conducting safety audits 
and improvements throughout our operations. 
The initiative has raised the overall performance 
of health and safety across the Group and has 
been instrumental in reducing our RIDDOR rates 
by 13% this year. We have made progress, but 
will continue and intensify our efforts in this area. 

We are pleased with the progress made on 
executing our strategy this year. The underlying 
growth from our investment programme remains 
strong and the executive management are taking 
positive action to build a leaner and more focused 
business. We will up the pace of our execution 
further in the year ahead. This should deliver 
short-term earnings growth with signiﬁcant 
acceleration once economic conditions improve. 
Shanks Group uses sustainable and cost-effective 
technologies to make valuable products from 
waste. In doing so, we can deliver solutions 
to society’s environmental challenges while 
generating good returns for our shareholders. 
Thank you for your continued support.
 
Group Chairman





7. 2 p
