 Shanks Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s statement


 Group Chief Executive

This is my ﬁrst statement as Chief Executive, 
having joined the Group in February. I came to 
Shanks because I believe it is a strong and 
well-positioned business in an increasingly 
important growth market. My time in the 
business has reinforced this view. 
Clearly we are operating in a challenging 
macro-economic environment at the moment. 
However, Shanks has many compelling 
opportunities to deliver proﬁtable growth and 
shareholder value. By ‘making more from waste’, 
I am conﬁdent that we will do just that. 
Shanks’ strategy is focused on delivering 
cost-effective and sustainable alternatives to 
landﬁll and mass incineration. The need for such 
solutions is increasing due to regulation and 
legislation, together with society’s determination 
to protect our environment. Shanks is well 
placed to meet these growing demands with 
its strong portfolio of businesses, capabilities 
and technologies. 

During the year, Shanks continued to deliver 
proﬁtable growth despite softer market volumes 
and price pressure in some of our markets. 
Revenue grew by 3% at constant currency and 
underlying earnings per share increased by 9%. 
This was a direct result of strong returns from 
Shanks’ strategic investment programme, 
together with focused management action 
to streamline operations and reduce costs. 
It was particularly encouraging to deliver 
improved results in our core growth areas 
of the UK and Organics which grew revenue 
by 6% and 28% year-on-year respectively. 
Our Benelux Hazardous Waste business also 
performed strongly with trading proﬁt up 26%. 
These operational gains, coupled with returns 
from the investment programme and £11m 
cost savings achieved during the year, more 
than offset the difﬁcult trading conditions in our 
Solid Waste markets. 
Shanks has many compelling 
opportunities to deliver proﬁtable 
growth and shareholder value.  Bio-Diesel
Responsible
Shanks Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
The Group-wide ‘Action on Safety’ initiative led 
by senior management has been instrumental 
in achieving a reduction of 13% to our level 
of reportable accidents in the year. The focus 
on safety continues and we will drive further 
improvements. 

Shanks’ overall vision remains consistent and 
has become more focused. We retain a clear 
aim to be the leading provider of sustainable 
alternatives to landﬁll and mass incineration. 
We plan to lead in selected target markets which 
have strong sustainable growth drivers and 
characteristics that enable Shanks to gain 
competitive advantage. This aspiration reﬂects 
opportunities in our current growth markets, 
such as Organics in Canada, and also our 
commitment to be highly selective about where 
we will operate in the future.











The Group Executive Committee 
visiting our Roeselare site. Shanks Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s statement


More information on how we measure progress on pages 18 and 19
 Measurements



Underlying earnings per share growth (%)  
Organic growth in trading proﬁt (%)  
Growth in revenue from sustainable activities (%)  
Post-tax return on investment programme (%)



Overall recycling and recovery rate (%)  
Plant utilisation (%)  
Power generation (MWHrs)



Lower RIDDOR rate  
Carbon avoidance (tonnes)



Return on operating assets (%) 
 Shanks’ strategy to deliver growth from sustainable waste management is robust and 
supported by long-term growth drivers. We create value from recycling, recovering energy 
and making products from material that is otherwise thrown away. We believe that our 
approach of ‘making more from waste’ delivers cost-effective and environmentally 
sustainable solutions to dealing with a wide range of waste streams. 
To focus and accelerate our execution, four strategic priorities have been identiﬁed:
The background and future outlook for each of these is described on the following pages. 
 Shanks Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012


We have invested £140m in sustainable waste 
management infrastructure since 2008. The 
performance of these investments has improved 
over time and we are now consistently delivering 
our target post-tax returns of 12–15% when 
plants are fully operational. We have developed 
project management capabilities and 
operational metrics to ensure that we continue 
to generate superior returns on investment.
A further £110m will be deployed as part of the 
second phase of the strategic investment 
programme. We are already working on a 
signiﬁcant number of sustainable projects that 
leverage our existing core capabilities and the 
pipeline of such opportunities continues to grow 
at a promising rate. Our target projects are 
increasingly in Organics where we have proven 
expertise and can deliver excellent operating 
margins. In the UK municipal market we are 
detecting early signs of a more difﬁcult funding 
environment, together with local authorities 
planning for shorter term contracts and less 
capital intensive facilities. We believe that there 
will be ongoing opportunities for Shanks in this 
market and we will continue to invest heavily in 
the UK given the strong need for further 
sustainable diversion from landﬁll.


Shanks Group sustainably recycles and 
reprocesses waste into valuable products. 
We get value from the products we make 
so our recycling and recovery rate is a critical 
operational metric. In 2011/12 we achieved 
an industry-leading recycling and recovery 
rate of 78% up from 70% three years ago. 
More broadly in 2011/12, we improved our 
Organics operating margins from 13% to 18%. 
Additionally, in our UK PFI/PPP business we 
delivered excellent service to Local Authorities 
while driving operating margins from 6.4% to 
10.1% in the year.
We are now refocusing the Group to be more 
product-oriented. This includes signiﬁcant effort 
on delivering outstanding productivity. The core 
principles of lean manufacturing can be applied 
to our industry and they will be implemented 
going forward. By way of illustration, we have 
started to develop an improved set of ‘daily 
management’ tools to measure and increase 
the operational performance of our facilities. 
These will be rolled out across the Group and 
will ensure that we really are ‘making more from 
waste’. Our productivity focus is particularly 
important given that solid waste volumes are 
currently suppressed by the macro-economic 
environment. 





18 %


Our second AD facility in the UK is 
a 48,000 tonnes per annum facility 
which will generate up to 2MW 
of renewable energy.  Shanks Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012


We have a decentralised structure that enables 
local entrepreneurial management teams to 
deliver responsive and innovative services 
to our customers. Over recent years, we have 
sought to foster this cultural advantage whilst 
developing a stronger central framework to 
deliver Group-wide beneﬁts. To drive this, the 
Group’s Executive Committee (Excom*) has 
driven a wider range of initiatives. For example, 
we have started a centrally coordinated 
procurement project and have increased 
cross-border trading activities. In addition, 
a new overall Shanks brand was successfully 
rolled out across the Group, including in the 
Netherlands where there have been only 
local brands in the past. 
In addition to recent improvements, we still have 
many opportunities to leverage further our 
Group capabilities, technologies and scale. We 
are escalating our overall focus on people and 
capability development. We are also developing 
the organisation to be more closely aligned with 
our core activities. To this end Henk Kaskens, 
the Managing Director of our Organics business, 
was recently appointed to the Group Excom 
and now reports directly to me. In addition, 
we are targeting further synergies from across 
the Group and announcements will be made 
as our plans develop during the year. 
Chief Executive’s statement










*  The Group Executive Committee meets monthly and the permanent 
members include the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance 
Director and the Managing Directors of the Netherlands, Belgium, 
the UK and since May 2012 the Managing Director of Orgaworld. 


100,000 tonnes per annum AD and 
300,000 tonnes per annum waste 
water treatment. Shanks Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2012



Over the years Shanks has delivered signiﬁcant 
value from bolt-on acquisitions. In March 2012 
this continued with the acquisition of the 
Dutch glass recycling business, Van Tuijl. 
This acquisition expands our capabilities in 
an important recyclate market and complements 
our existing operations. We have clear plans to 
grow Van Tuijl and the business is off to a strong 
start under our ownership. 
Looking ahead, we will continue to use 
acquisitions to strengthen our core businesses. 
We believe buying and integrating bolt-on 
businesses in the current environment can 
accelerate the Group’s proﬁtable growth. 
Our balance sheet provides us with this strategic 
ﬂexibility and we are actively looking for 
appropriate opportunities that meet our target 
returns on investment. In parallel, we are also 
assessing the Group’s current portfolio to 
identify non-core businesses. This process 
is ongoing, but has already highlighted some 
small regional operations that might create 
more value under alternative ownership. 

We have four core activities: Solid Waste, 
Hazardous Waste, Organics and UK Municipal 
(PFI/PPP). Each of these activities has different 
demand drivers, proﬁtability proﬁles and capital 
requirements. We also have distinct ways in 
which we create competitive advantage in each 
of these activities. At the same time, all of them 
provide cost-effective and sustainable solutions 
to reduce landﬁll and mass incineration. They all 
‘make more from waste’ by creating products 
such as green energy, recyclate commodities, 
recovered fuel and organic fertilisers. Our 
activities are described in more detail throughout 
this report, together with ‘how we win’.
Our portfolio of activities have the following 
key attributes: 
• Solid Waste – productive, lean business 
with leading recycling rates; well positioned 
for recovery 
• Hazardous Waste – strong proﬁtable business 
with competitive advantage and international 
reach
• Organics – growing international green 
business with proven capabilities and 
attractive economics 
• UK Municipal (long-term PFI/PPP contracts) – 
strong stable business with improving service 
and returns, plus continued growth 
opportunities 
Over the last three years, the proportion of 
Group proﬁt from Hazardous, Organics and 
UK Municipal has increased from 33% to around 
60%. This more balanced business mix reduces 
the cyclical exposure of the Group.
We believe our combination of established 
sustainable businesses, coupled with a renewed 
focus on growth, operational excellence and 
Group capability, will generate signiﬁcant 
shareholder value in the years ahead. 

Going into 2012/13, we are building on Shanks’ 
stable platform by accelerating and intensifying 
the execution of our strategy. Our markets look 
set to remain challenging in the year ahead. 
To offset these macro headwinds we are taking 
action to deliver cost reductions and Group 
synergies. We will also continue to generate 
further returns from our ongoing investment 
programme and through a renewed focus 
on operational performance. 
I believe that we are well-positioned to deliver 
growth in line with the Board’s expectations for 
2012/13 and that the future outlook for Shanks 
Group is very positive. 
 
Group Chief Executive


 • Productive, lean 
business with leading 
recycling rates
• Well positioned 
for recovery


• Strong proﬁtable 
business with 
technology advantages
• International 
experience and reach 
 • Growing international 
green business with 
proven capabilities
• Proﬁtable growth 
in new markets 
 • Stable business with 
long-term contracts 
and improving margins 
• Evolving growth 
opportunities







