 Shed Media (the ‘Group’) has succeeded in transforming the scale and scope of the business in the 16
month period to 31 December 2007. The acquisition of three companies during the period: Outright
Distribution, Twenty Twenty and Wall to Wall, has significantly broadened the Group by genre,
broadcaster base and geographic spread. These acquisitions have changed the risk profile of the Group,
reducing dependence on any one particular brand, and Shed Media now serves 13 broadcast customers in
both the UK and the US.
Outright Distribution enables the Group to exploit its programme rights more effectively, selling into over
125 territories worldwide, and to retain the margin otherwise paid out to external distributors. Outright is
also growing its quality third party business, attracted by efficient exploitation into many territories and an
outstanding catalogue of programme brands.
Shed Media's core strategy of building a portfolio of long run returning series, with the capability of
generating revenue from intellectual property rights, characterised the acquisitions completed in the
period. At the same time as executing this strategy the Group has maintained its position as one of the
most efficient producers in the UK, sustaining high operating margins of 18%, twice the industry average. 
I am delighted to have welcomed to the Board Chris Bonney, MD of Outright, Peter Casely-Hayford, MD
of Twenty Twenty, and Alex Graham, CEO of Wall to Wall. Their experience combined with their
enthusiasm for the continued growth of Shed Media has made the task of integrating the businesses very
straightforward and effective.
Ann McManus and Maureen Chadwick, founders of Shed Productions, stood down from the Board. Their
knowledge and creativity has been, and continues to be the backbone of Shed drama, as they continue in
their roles as leading show runners and writers of our long run drama series. I thank them for their
invaluable contribution.
In changing economic conditions, broadcast customers need efficient producers and Shed Media's forward
order book of 64% of target revenue commissioned, and our proven expertise at delivering quality
programming, provides the basis for our confidence in the year.
The expansion of the business and the demands of our customers in competitive markets has placed
continuing high demands on the talents and resources of our staff, and I would like to thank them for their
hard work and commitment.
Katherine Innes Ker
02
SHED MEDIA A NNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
Chairman’s Statement
