 Shed has again delivered an excellent set of results for the year to 31 December 2008. The Group has
successfully integrated its acquisitions, Outright Distribution, Twenty Twenty and Wall to Wall, and
continued to grow organically. 
During the year, revenue from the Group’s core activities, content production and IP exploitation has
increased to £82m (2007 16 months: £63m). Of particular importance was the growing revenue stream
from the US that now makes up 30% (2007 16 months: 26%) of Group gross profit. The Group has
maintained its excellent adjusted operating margins of 18% (2007 16 months: 17%). A final dividend has
been proposed of 1.25p per ordinary share (2007: 1.1p). This dividend will also be available to shareholders
as a scrip issue of ordinary shares.
Whilst the UK production market is challenging, Shed is benefiting from its ability to produce long-running,
returnable brands for its broadcast partners. Of particular note are the popular BBC One drama series
New Tricks and Waterloo Road and the factual shows Who Do You Think You Are? and The Choir. 
With UK produced content and formats still leading the world, Outright Distribution continues to capture
more profit growth from Group and third party product. The Group library has expanded to over 2,900
hours and is selling into over 200 territories. At a time when international broadcasters are looking to cut
their original content spend, having such a quality catalogue has given Shed Media a significant competitive
advantage.
During the year, Eileen Gallagher decided to step down as Group Chief Executive. I am delighted that
Eileen remains on the Board as Chief Executive of Shed Productions. Eileen is a tremendous asset to the
Group having led Shed through a successful IPO and delivering on the strategy to diversify and strengthen
the Group through acquisitions. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Eileen for her leadership to
date.
The Board welcomed the appointment of Nick Southgate to the role of Group Chief Executive. Nick, in his
previous role of Chief Operating Officer, led the integration of the Group companies and the expansion
into America and is extremely well placed to drive Shed forward. 
I would also like to thank Katherine Innes Ker for her contribution as Chair over the last four years. The
Group is in the process of identifying a new Chair, and two non executive directors and we hope to make a
further announcement shortly.
Finally, the content produced and distributed by the Group in 2008 is the product of many hard-working
individuals and I’d like to thank all of our employees for their efforts during the year.
David Kogan
02
SHED MEDIA ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008
Chairman’s Statement
116127 Shed Pt1  14/5/09  12:29 pm  Page 02
