 OVERVIEW FOR THE 16 MONTHS
I am pleased to announce Shed Media’s final results covering the 16 months to 31 December 2007.
Over the 16 months, adjusted operating profit increased to £11.1m. Operating margin, before goodwill
amortisation, remains high at 18%, nearly double the industry average of 9.3%.* 
Revenue from the Group’s core activities, content production and IP exploitation, has grown strongly.
During the period, the Group delivered 209 hours of programming – 38 hours of drama and 171 of factual.
Programmes included new ITV1 drama, Rock Rivals, Waterloo Road series three and Supernanny USA
season three.
Shed Media’s in-house distribution arm, Outright Distribution, has performed strongly, successfully
distributing Shed Media content and growing its third party business.  Revenue from the Group’s IP
exploitation accounted for 30% of gross profit.  We expect this area of business to grow as the library
expands with Shed Group and third party business.
One of the main highlights of the period was the acquisition of Twenty Twenty and Wall to Wall, two
highly respected and trusted production companies, renowned for their compelling, quality programming.
The acquisitions further diversify the Group’s programme portfolio and broaden our broadcaster
customer base.  Both companies produce highly profitable programming across a wide range of genres and
are an excellent fit alongside Shed Productions and Ricochet.  Brands include Who Do You Think You Are?,
New Tricks, Brat Camp and The Choir. The US presents further opportunities in which to launch Wall to
Wall and Twenty Twenty formats and content. 
Drama
During the 16 months, Shed Productions secured new drama commissions and re-commissions. A third
series of Waterloo Road was re-commissioned and delivered for BBC1 during the period, with a substantial
increase in the order from 12 hours to 20 hours.  Rock Rivals, an 8 hour prime-time drama, was delivered
for ITV1 and Catwalk Dogs, a 90 minute drama for ITV1 was delivered.   
Post period, a fourth series of Waterloo Road has been re-ordered for BBC1 for a run of 20 hours and a
new prime-time drama, Hope Springs has been ordered for BBC1 (8 x 60 mins).
Shed currently has more major drama series in funded and non-funded development than ever before for
broadcasters in the UK and the US.  
Factual
Ricochet performed extremely well during the 16 months, securing 17 new series, 5 in the US and 12 in the
UK, whilst delivering a total of 171 hours of programming.
The US business experienced strong growth.  In the period, Supernanny USA 3 was delivered to the ABC
Network and the order for Supernanny USA 4 was increased from an initial 13 episodes to 25 episodes.  In
addition, Ricochet delivered a new prime-time factual entertainment series, Fat March, to ABC.  Other new
commissions included an 8-part series for Bravo, The Real Housewives of New York City and a 7 x 60 mins
order for an extreme survival series, The Alaska Experiment, for Discovery US.
Post-period, ABC has ordered a 5th season of Supernanny USA (13 x 60 mins) and a pilot episode of Super-
Manny.  Bravo has ordered a second season run of 10 episodes of The Real Housewives of New York City
following its ratings success and Discovery US has picked up a new 3 x 60 mins major documentary series.
03
SHED MEDIA ANNUA L REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
Chief Executive’s Statement In the UK, highlights include two new series for the BBC, Blood Sweat and T-Shirts (4 x 60 mins) and Open
House (20 x 30 mins) as well as two new brands for Five, Breaking into Tesco (6 x 60 mins) and
Unbreakable (8 x 60 mins).  In the period, Ricochet also won its first commissions for ITV and UKTV.
Ricochet also delivered new series of Supernanny UK, The Mummy Diaries and Born to be Different for
Channel 4, and Living in the Sun and Extreme Dreams for the BBC.
Post-period, Channel 4 has ordered a new prime-time factual entertainment series, Danger Women (4 x
60mins), Five has ordered a new features series, Cowboy Builders (6 x 60mins), as well as re-commissioning
Breaking into Tesco (6 x 60mins), and the BBC has ordered a new landmark documentary series (3 x
60mins).
Intellectual Property (IP) Exploitation
IP exploitation was strong and contribution to the bottom line accounted for 30% of gross profit.  During
the period Outright Distribution sold over 2,100 hours of television in 125 different territories.  The
programme library continues to grow and with effective exploitation by Outright Distribution, this
provides a reliable and growing income stream going forward.  Outright continues to capture more profit
from Group product, whilst continuing to grow third party business.
A major highlight was securing record pre-sales for Shed’s new ITV1 drama Rock Rivals prior to production
and securing a Europe wide DVD deal.
Outlook
Four months into our current financial year we have 227 hours commissioned, representing over 80% of
hours and 64% of revenue target. These commissions include most of the major revenue generating
brands. Drama accounts for 38 hours, including a new peak time drama, Hope Springs for BBC1 (8 x
60mins) and re-commission of Waterloo Road (20 x 60mins) both for Shed Productions.  A fifth series of
New Tricks (8 x 60mins) for Wall to Wall and a new 90min drama, Whatever It Takes for Twenty Twenty.
ABC has ordered a fifth series of Ricochet’s Supernanny USA (13 x 60mins) and BBC1 has re-commissioned
a fifth series of Wall to Wall’s Who Do You Think You Are? (10 x 60mins).
In addition to the commissions for 2008, Wall to Wall has been re-commissioned to produce a sixth series
of New Tricks (8 x 60mins) and sixth series of Who Do You Think You Are? (8 x 60 mins) both for BBC1
and due for delivery in 2009.
The US continues to be an attractive area for growth with our LA production office presently
commissioned to make four series this year for broadcasters including ABC, NBC, Bravo and Discovery US.
An additional four shows are in paid development with MTV, Spike and SoapNet. Supernanny USA is as
strong as ever and the Group is looking forward to the benefit of syndication revenues from 2009.
Delivering on our stated strategy to leverage both Wall to Wall and Twenty Twenty into the US market,
Wall to Wall has received its first commission from NBC to develop and cast six episodes for a US version
of its successful brand, Who Do You Think You Are?  Twenty Twenty has been commissioned by MTV to
produce a pilot inspired by its successful Brat Camp format.
The acquisition of Outright Distribution in September 2006 has enabled the Group to capture more profit
from its IP rights.  The acquisition also made it possible for Outright Distribution to significantly transform
its business.  Its library has more than doubled with the addition of over 500 hours of major new brands
from the Shed Media Group.  Outright’s strong and extensive library attracts all major international buyers
as well as quality third party UK production companies.
04
SHED MEDIA A NNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
Chief Executive’s Statement (continued) With Shed Media now greatly diversified in terms of brand count and broadcast customers, the Group’s
risk profile has been transformed. The Group is making good progress in a difficult market in the UK and
we are confident of achieving growth for the current financial year.
Eileen Gallagher
* PACT census 2007
05
SHED MEDIA ANNUA L REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
Chief Executive’s Statement (continued)
