 I became Chairman of Shed at the Group’s last AGM and have been joined by two other non executives,
Coline McConville and Marc Watson.
My early priorities have been to ensure a smooth transition in the corporate governance of Shed and to
give leadership and support to the direction of the Group. I believe the Board is now working effectively
with a focus on Shed’s business strategy, creative ambition and financial performance.
A number of changes have been implemented and are worthy of comment. By appointing Claire Hungate
as Commercial Director, this vitally important part of the business now has a new focus and drive that will
ensure that the Group fully exploits its intellectual property. Jonathon Kemp assumed the role of Chief
Financial Officer in July 2009 and has continued to strengthen the financial discipline in the Group’s
companies.
The Chief Executive’s report highlights some of the Group’s achievements in a broadcast market which
continues to be nervous. We have sought to build on our reputation of delivering outstanding quality
programmes across a number of genres: from having long running drama in Waterloo Road and New Tricks
and now the award winning Garrow’s Law; to outstanding documentaries like Born to be Different; and
thought provoking factual entertainment like World’s Strictest Parents and Blood Sweat and Luxuries.
Significantly, we have had increasing success in the US market with the making of Who Do You Think You
Are? US and The Marriage Ref. Creating a successful and sustainable US operation is now well underway and
the investment made to date is delivering demonstrable results.
Outright, the Group’s wholly owned distributor, has performed well in the year. Overall, IP accounted for
42% of gross profit in 2009 and the Board has given further support to Outright by agreeing investment
capital to secure more third party rights going forward.
In the period, the Group has begun to make and develop content in the digital space. Twenty Twenty
made a highly successful fashion magazine show, The Closet, for the social network site Bebo, and Shed is in
production of an internet drama, Being Victor, for CTVC and Scottish Screen.
I am pleased to propose a maintained dividend of 1.25p (2008: 1.25p). This dividend will also be available to
shareholders as a scrip issue of ordinary shares.
On 30 July 2009, Shed announced that executive directors were holding preliminary talks with a number of
private equity houses with a view to exploring the possibility of making an offer for Shed. These
discussions continue to advance.
Finally, on behalf of myself and my non executive colleagues I would like to thank the CEO and all the
executives of the Group for their tireless work and their continual striving for creative excellence and for
all those who have worked for the Group whose endeavours have enabled Shed to achieve this good set of
results.
Heather Rabbatts
Chairman
02
SHED MEDIA ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2009
Chairman’s Statement
131165 Shed Productions Pt1  21/5/10  7:18 pm  Page 02
