 7 CEO Commentary
CEO Commentary
Despite a challenging environment, Sherwood has gained a decidedly
creditable result for the year, adding new customers, partners, and products.
Many of our customers have faced very tough times as the equity markets have continued to decline,
new regulations come into force, and market conditions intensified competition. It is a sobering
reflection that many of our comparators who were once held as sector leaders have suffered heavily as
a result. It is in this context that, I am pleased to say, Sherwood has gained clear traction in 2002 in all 
its markets. 
At the start of 2002 we embarked upon an intensive programme to integrate our various acquisitions
into one global business. The streamlining of our company and the resultant synergies are at the heart
of our encouraging earnings performance, which is in line with market expectations (£6.6m of EBITDA
before exceptional items, £5.7m of pre-tax profits before amortisation and exceptional items, and profit
before tax of £0.1m).
Given this creditable result, which is differentiated from many of our comparators, many stakeholders
have expressed disappointment with the performance of our stock price. It may well be the case that,
in the current suppressed market conditions, medium-sized technology companies will struggle to gain
valuation justice in the stock markets despite good performance. This clearly presents Sherwood with a
further set of challenges and food for thought going forward. The Executive team remains wholly
committed to providing first-class operational performance and seeking the best strategy to maximise
shareholder value. 
The Executive team
remains wholly
committed to
providing first-class
operational
performance and
seeking the best
strategy to maximise
shareholder value.
Sherwood International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
AnnualRep_17.qxd  17/3/03  3:38 pm  Page 7 8 CEO Commentary
“Our modular software allows customers to implement in phases, 
delivering a faster return on investment.”
This volatile environment has been characterised by a
cautious and assiduous approach to all IT investment. 
There has been a general unwillingness to commit to spend
on large scale, long term projects. Companies are favouring
phased, modular implementations with lower up-front costs
and rapid execution, which result in a speedier return 
on their investment. In such an uncertain climate, many
companies also continue to defer purchasing decisions, 
so that sales cycles continue to lengthen, resulting in higher
cost of sale and lower contract values for each transaction.
We have responded pragmatically to this environment 
with an intensive “modularity drive”. This spans both the
nature of our product offering and the terms of our
commercial proposition. Now, our modular software allows
customers to implement in phases, delivering a faster return
on investment.
The goals based on operational excellence stated 
at the beginning of the year were dependent on 
significant transformations. In a year of profound transition 
for Sherwood, we implemented major organisational
adjustments, which we believe have reshaped the company
and established a firm base from which to build a sustainable
and profitable global business model. In all of this, we have
made it a priority to manage change very carefully, so that the
business could and did perform at the same time. 
Some of these changes have been cultural: the introduction
of a new Executive team meant more than just new people.
It established a new ethos and company outlook that reflects
the ambitions of what is now a unitary global organisation.
Some of these changes have been structural; at the start of
2002 the Group had just finished a two year period of
significant merger and acquisition activity. This laid the
foundation for the innovation of Sherwood International
from an insurance services management company, to a
software sales and follow-on-services business model.
Furthermore, it required decisive action to defend our cash
position, bringing costs under control and extracting a
better return for shareholders from our existing assets.
AnnualRep_17.qxd  17/3/03  3:38 pm  Page 8 9 CEO Commentary
Early 2002 actions and subsequent close management 
by the new Board and Executive team allow me to report 
a firm performance in line with expectations. In terms 
of overall revenues, there was an 8% reduction to £52.2m,
this decrease being largely attributable to the closing down
of our loss-making Mattodia business in the US and to the
reporting effect of a weakening dollar. We start 2003 
with a well-qualified and healthy pipeline. In the calendar 
year 2002 the Company signed twenty-seven licence
contracts, which is a record for Sherwood and reflects 
the changing dynamics of a lower average selling price,
shorter engagements, and modular or phased project
implementation. As mentioned above, pre-tax profits before
amortisation and exceptional items were £5.7m (profit
before tax £0.1m), meeting consensus goals. In addition, the
Company has no long term debt and a net cash position 
of £11.4m, a very significant improvement over financial
year 2001.
These results have been achieved through strong
stewardship and by responding aggressively in the face of
difficult market conditions. The team took clear and decisive
action early in the year to make a necessary 17% reduction to
the workforce so as to avoid the knock-on damage caused
by gradual incremental cuts. Despite this, we have continued
to invest in augmenting our expertise in areas of particular
strategic importance to the Group. We believe that this is
essential if we are to deliver on our commitment to be
recognised as a world-class provider of technology solutions
and services to the markets that we serve. This includes the
appointment of a Chief Technology Officer who has 
been tasked with leveraging Sherwood’s research and
development operations, integrating the product assets
from previous acquisitions and delivering on our vision for
the future of our solution sets. 
Alongside this, the sales and professional services operations
have been streamlined and the global structure reduced to
just three tiers. As such, a sales or support person is usually
only one line manager away from a Plc Board Director, thus
providing fast, timely, and effective decision making and
customer support.
A clear and focused marketing programme has also helped
us to build goodwill in the Sherwood brand and outperform
a number of our most significant competitors. As a result, we
have achieved a much greater visibility and prominence
within the marketplace. 
In October 2002, Sherwood was rated by CMP as the twelfth
most favourably reported technology company in the UK.
Central to this achievement has been our ability to
differentiate Sherwood within the industry as an organisation
that firmly delivers on its commitments. 
CEO Commentary (continued)
AnnualRep_17.qxd  17/3/03  3:38 pm  Page 9 10 CEO Commentary
As an integral aspect of this differentiation, Sherwood’s
Research and Development (R&D) goal for 2002 was to
maximise existing intellectual properties and product
offerings to best address customer requirements, giving the
Company a tangible competitive lead in the insurance
industry worldwide. We have already successfully established
our first reference client with the introduction of a
FrontTier
™
based group administration product in North
America, and in 2003 a new claims management solution will
also be launched. Sherwood plans to focus on the life
marketplace as well, and deliver a dedicated new agency and
commissions (ICM) product in 2003.
To react to an increased market demand for phased 
or modular implementation of IT projects, Sherwood 
has expanded its solution set accordingly. In June the
Company introduced Amarta
™
LIFE FAST START, transforming
our offering from large-scale project solutions to the
addition of a modular methodology. I am pleased to
announce that our first licence and implementation contract
for Amarta
™
LIFE FAST START was agreed with a leading South
African insurance organisation in December 2002, and a
further pilot is also currently underway in China. 
In the long term, the effective use of our R&D investment 
is a key strategy for Sherwood and we have undertaken 
a critical review to set out a clear technology vision.
Sherwood has grown by acquisition, each purchase bringing
a distinct technology. We are now focused on a programme
to aggregate our technology sets and 2003 will see us
achieve some significant milestones in development
coalescence for the Sherwood
™
Enterprise Framework.
Let us turn now to look at the Group’s performance in 
its two main business areas of insurance and government 
in more detail.
“ In the calendar year 2002 the
Company signed twenty-seven
licence contracts, which is a
record for Sherwood
AnnualRep_17.qxd  17/3/03  3:38 pm  Page 10 11 CEO Commentary
Insurance
As the financial services industry gradually transforms to 
a lower operating cost model, legacy system management
continues to be a critical issue for most organisations.
However, few are prepared to commit to the large-scale
bespoke projects required to deal with this in the current
climate. Sherwood has responded vigorously by offering 
a modular approach in both project implementation and
commercial proposition. Sherwood has also adopted 
a pragmatic view to systems development, where 
new projects are constructed alongside the existing 
legacy infrastructure.
North America represents significant opportunities for 
the Group as it is the biggest single market for insurance
provision. The continued downward pressure on business
and the unknown effect of possible conflict in the Middle
East, have resulted in a sustained atmosphere of caution and
business deferral. Notwithstanding, FrontTier
™
in particular
began to gain significant traction in the P&C marketplace.
This is a trend that is continuing into 2003. Amarta
™
LIFE FAST
START has gained early acceptance in international life
markets and our renewed focus on the North American life
market will produce similar results in 2003, building from
Sherwood’s already strong presence.
The robust emphasis Sherwood placed on partnership
alliances in 2002 in order to strengthen it’s global go-to-
market strategy saw some notable successes. One of the
most significant of these is our partnership agreement with
Hewlett-Packard (HP), announced in September, to develop
software and services that address the unique needs of the
Chinese insurance market. This has already resulted in
Sherwood’s first contract with China Pacific Insurance
Corporation to pilot Sherwood’s flagship Amarta
™
LIFE FAST
START solution, aimed at augmenting the core business
administration system for its life division. The Group has also
increased its presence with outsourcing partners Liberata
and Capita. Amarta
™
LIFE will provide Liberata’s technology
backbone for a number of high profile customers including
Barclays Life and Woolwich Life.
Sherwood has also made significant progress in
strengthening its technology partnerships. In 2002 we 
were appointed as one of only twelve Oracle Executive
partners in Europe, and Sherwood has recently signed a
global sales agreement with IBM.
General insurance was a sector that gave rise to a 
strong pipeline throughout 2002. In September, Aviva
purchased a new five-year licence for ProCede
™
, including
implementation services, annual support, and maintenance.
ProCede
™
will enable Aviva to enhance its already strong
governance around reinsurance counterparty exposure.
Government
UK Government is a strategically important part of
Sherwood’s business and is responsible for fully a third  of
the Group’s turnover. Especially in the current uncertain
economic climate, Government business remains robust and
its investment in IT counter-cyclical to the general trend 
in private enterprise; 2002 was another successful year for
the Sherwood Government division. 
We have enjoyed a long association with Defra and were
pleased to be awarded Sherwood's largest ever multi-year
contract with the Department in November 2002. The
Government customer base was expanded with new
business secured in the Ministry of Defence, National 
Health Service, and the Home Office. 
As we move forward into 2003, Sherwood is a major
supporter of the UK Government’s E-GIF specifications and is
working closely with both Java J2EE and Microsoft’s .NET
product definitions, which are central technical aspects of
Government IT.
CEO Commentary (continued)
AnnualRep_17.qxd  17/3/03  3:38 pm  Page 11 12 CEO Commentary
Outlook
The general outlook remains challenging and Sherwood’s
current view of the marketplace indicates no significant
upturn in trading conditions in 2003. Additionally, concern
over the situation in the Middle East will contribute to the
deferral of the return of economic confidence. Whilst
Sherwood has a healthy pipeline for 2003, we are sensitive to
the prevailing caution in client IT investment. We therefore
anticipate that conversion ratios from pipeline to contract
will be suppressed. 
Sherwood is already fully engaged with its 2003 business
goals and will deploy its solutions and resources to exploit
areas of the market where expenditure will continue. This is
predicted as modular phased projects, particularly in the new
solution areas such as claims, group administration, and
agency and commissions. 
As mentioned in brief earlier, over the last two years there
has been demand from customers for solutions that enable
them to break down large-scale IT projects into more
manageable pieces that can be implemented faster and
deliver speedier return on investment. In 2002 Sherwood
launched Amarta
™
LIFE FAST START, its new modular version
of the Amarta
™
technology with pre-populated templates
aimed at meeting this need. With its speed of deployment
and faster return on investment, Amarta
™
LIFE FAST START is
an exceptionally attractive product for this current uncertain
economic climate.
Sherwood has also identified key market entry and expansion
points during 2002 and has moved very quickly to deliver
products to take advantage. During the first half of 2003,
Sherwood will introduce a claims management system that
has already been validated by strategic customers, together
with roll-out of a new group administration system in North
America that already has its first customer. In the second half
of the year, Sherwood will introduce an agency and
commissions product with alliance entity Datawise to further
expand sales prospects, for both this solution and other
Sherwood products.
The results for 2003 are expected to be weighted more
heavily towards the second half due to the phasing of cost
benefits from the office consolidation and increased service
revenues from existing contracts. Cash flow for 2003 is also
expected to exceed operational profits due to continued
improvements in working capital and the benefits of
improved business practice.
Sherwood will continue to exercise prudent cost control and
the priority remains to defend and grow existing profitability
levels, maintaining a sustainable business model for the
future. Sherwood will aim to expand its business into
emerging marketplaces through strategic partnerships that
will provide greater leverage, and mitigate the cost of
bringing solutions to market. We will selectively examine
acquisitions when they compliment our strategy to further
our penetration of target markets.
“Government business remains robust and
its investment in IT counter-cyclical to the
general trend in private enterprise; 2002
was another successful year for the
Sherwood Government division.”
Mike Shinya
Chief Executive Officer
3 March 2003
AnnualRep_17.qxd  17/3/03  3:38 pm  Page 12
