 Overview
The result for the year is disappointing and does not
reflect the tremendous energy and effort involved in re-
positioning the Group as a leading supplier of products
and services to the National Health Service and the private
healthcare market. 
The cost and time taken to make the necessary changes
to re-position the Group have been much greater than
expected.  In particular, the re-structuring of our four
mobility acquisitions into one division, Shiloh Active Care,
has proved a costly exercise and has had a significant
negative impact on operating profit.
The Medical Division has had a year of mixed fortunes.
Our Glasgow based distribution operation, Fast-Aid
Products, has again turned in an excellent performance,
but the main Oldham-based operation has been adversely
affected by the costs involved in re-structuring and
changing the product mix.  We have withdrawn from
some low margin business and started to build up a range
of higher margin products, most notably our Comfi
bandage range of woundcare products and the Clinisan
brand of emollient cleansing foam. These two products
have resulted in new sales of over £900,000, which have
replaced nearly £2 million of low margin business, mainly
in workwear.
Under these circumstances, the Group has done well to
maintain sales at a similar level to last year at £45.12
million.  
A priority during the year has been the development of
our Sterilisation Services Division where we can clearly see
good prospects for profitable expansion in the future. Our
unique purpose-built sterilisation unit at Bellshill, servicing
hospitals in the Glasgow and Lanarkshire region, has now
had three years of profitable operation. We plan to build
on this success by using our skills and the experience
gained in this field to develop more units on the back of
the NHS programme for outsourcing sterilisation services
on a national basis.
Details of this programme have now been announced and
the NHS is in the process of issuing tender documents for
the first wave of contracts.   I am very pleased to report
that Shiloh Sterilisation Services has been short-listed for
some of these contracts and we are hopeful that we will
win one or more in the first wave.
The contracts will be awarded for a ten to fifteen year
term and would require us to raise additional finance.
The Directors are currently considering the best means of
securing this finance as they believe that the successful
growth of the Sterilisation Services Division is an important
way forward for the Group.
Chairman’s
“We must maximise the opportunities that the growth
in the national healthcare budget presents”
Statement
4 5
A review of the operation of the three divisions is contained in the
Chief Executive’s report. 
Results
Profit for the year before tax, exceptional items, amortisation and
interest is £428,000 (2003: £1.23 million).
Sales are £45.12 million (2003: £45.44 million).
Group profit before tax is £310,000 (2003: £490,000) after charging
amortisation of intangible assets of £290,000 and crediting an
exceptional profit on property sales of £367,000.
Earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets and
exceptional items are 2.66p per share (2003: 12.13p)
Dividend
As a reflection of our confidence in the future, the Directors believe
they are justified in maintaining the dividend at the same level as last
year and therefore recommend a final dividend of 3.85p per share
making the total dividend for the year 5.35p (2003: 5.35p).
Property
We were successful in completing the sale of our three surplus
properties during the year, namely Park Mill and the previous Head
Office in Holden Fold, both in Royton, and Swan Lane Mill in Bolton.
These properties realised £1.84 million and resulted in an exceptional
profit of £367,000.
Finance
Cash flow has been favourable during the year and net borrowings
have been reduced by £796,000 to £1.54 million.
£681,000 has been spent on new plant and equipment, mainly on
upgrading the Shiloh Connect and other IT systems, and on additional
manufacturing plant. In addition, there is a commitment of over
£400,000 to purchase a new wipes manufacturing machine which will
result in greater efficiency and significant cost savings.
It is pleasing to note that the FRS 17 valuation of our defined benefit
pension scheme has risen by £672,000 during the year due to an
increase in the value of the scheme’s investments.
Directors
The Director retiring by rotation under the Company’s Articles of
Association is Mr Dieno George. Mr George has decided not to offer
himself for re-election and will retire at the conclusion of the Annual
General Meeting on 18
th
June.
I would like to thank Dieno for the contribution he has made as a non-
executive Director since he joined the Board in 2001. His knowledge of
the healthcare industry and his contribution to the Board’s strategic
thinking has been invaluable.
Employees 
As always, we rely on the dedication and professionalism of our
employees which has been clearly demonstrated in what has been a
tough year.  My Board colleagues and I greatly appreciate the support
and commitment they have shown, particularly in accepting the
changes that have been necessary to move the Group forward.
Outlook
We expect the demand for the Group’s products and services to
continue to grow in line with the growth in the national healthcare
budget.  It is up to us to maximise the opportunities that this presents.
I believe that we can gain advantage from an environment that places
healthcare at the top of the list of national priorities and that, with the
work that has been done to re-shape the Group over the last two years,
we will move forward in the coming year.
Edmund T Gartside Chairman
