 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 5
In my interim statement I referred to the solid progress which
had been achieved in the first six months of the year and I 
am delighted to report that our operational performance in the
second half has maintained that rate of growth. Operating proﬁt,
before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill, increased
by £44 million, or 13%, to £395 million. It is particularly noteworthy
that this performance has been achieved against the background
of a global market characterised by excess capacity and declining
consumer conﬁdence.
All divisions, with the exception of Australia, achieved 
double-digit proﬁt increases maintaining the trend established 
in the first half. Primary food & agriculture again produced 
strong profit growth. Despite a smaller UK beet crop, British
Sugar achieved a satisfactory increase in profit. This could 
not have been achieved without the ongoing rationalisation 
and cost reduction programme which has been a constant focus 
in recent years. Despite an improved operational performance,
our overseas sugar business in Poland was hit by adverse 
market prices resulting in a fall in proﬁt. Although faced with 
a poor wheat harvest, Allied Mills and our arable business
achieved strong gains in proﬁtability. Here again restructuring 
and cost reduction has been a constant theme. In agriculture,
traditionally the most volatile sector of our operations, we were
able to overcome the trailing impact of disease and adverse
weather conditions to record strong gains in our animal feeds
business. Given the continuing problems of pricing, ﬁnancial
instability and over capacity in the farming industry, the
achievement of double-digit growth in a shrinking sector of 
the UK economy is a remarkable result.
With one exception, the ingredients & oils businesses put in 
an outstanding performance. ACH signiﬁcantly increased its 
proﬁt and this is particularly pleasing because it was achieved
before including any contribution from the Mazola oils
acquisition, which was only purchased towards the end of 
the ﬁnancial year. The integration of Mazola is going according 
to plan and it is expected to make a substantial contribution 
to the proﬁt growth of ACH in the coming year. SPI, our polyols
business, has made a recovery from the operational problems
experienced last year and achieved a signiﬁcantly improved
proﬁt. It is disappointing to report that our Abitec ingredients
business faced problems in reorganising and integrating its
existing and newly acquired bakery ingredients businesses 
in the UK and the US. The result was a decline in proﬁt but,
despite this setback, we are confident that growth will be
resumed in the current year.
Our grocery businesses again produced an excellent result.
Allied Bakeries continued to grow branded volume in the
multiple retail sector. With contributions from a bread price
increase, cost reductions and operational efﬁciency improvements,
Allied Bakeries achieved a signiﬁcant improvement in its results.
Twinings maintained its strong performance in worldwide sales,
market share and proﬁt growth. A strong feature in this growth
story in recent years has been the successful development of its
product range into the herbal and fruit infusion markets both 
in the UK and overseas.  
Primark has again achieved outstanding growth in both 
sales and proﬁt. We continue to acquire and develop stores 
in new city centre locations and we are confident that the
growth of this business can be maintained in an increasingly
competitive sector.
The poor performance of George Weston Foods in Australia
continued into the second half of the ﬁnancial year. Despite a highly
successful performance by the milling and baking businesses, 
our meat and biscuit operations continued to underperform. During 
the year we sold, at a proﬁt, our loss-making starch manufacturing
operation. Since the ﬁnancial year end we have completed the
buyout of the minority shareholders in the company. We are now 
in a position to take positive action to best position this business 
for growth. This will be a major focus in the coming year.
The disposal of redundant properties continued resulting in 
a proﬁt of £8 million in the year. 
Despite an increased level of expenditure on ﬁxed assets and
acquisitions at over £450 million, the strong cash ﬂow from our
operating activities ensured that at the year end our net liquid
funds were in excess of £1 billion, a level virtually unchanged 
from the previous year. Improved returns on these invested funds
in the second half of the year enabled us to restrict the decline 
in the level of investment income as a result of lower interest rates.
At £57 million this was £9 million, or 14%, below last year. 6 Associated British Foods plc
Chairman’s statement continued
Adjusting for exceptional items, proﬁts on the sale of ﬁxed assets
and amortisation of goodwill, group proﬁt before tax increased 
by 9% to £430 million. Adjusted earnings per share were 14%
ahead of last year at 38.7p.
Your company is renowned for its defensive strengths and its cash
generating capability. These results, achieved against a background
of increasing global uncertainty and decreasing investor conﬁdence,
demonstrate not only the strength and resilience inherent in our
core businesses but their capacity for producing further growth. 
Management effort continues to be focused on improving 
the efﬁciency of our businesses. This is not only a process of
reducing our cost base but of improving the level of performance
by our operating management both by developing the best 
of our existing executives and targeted recruitment of stronger
managers where required.
Spending on acquisitions in the year totalled £268 million
including £235 million for the purchase of Mazola in the US.
This bottled corn oil business is an ideal ﬁt with ACH oils and
enables us to broaden our product offering into the branded
retail segment of the market as well as to rationalise production
and distribution costs. This acquisition will have a positive impact 
on earnings in our 2003 ﬁnancial year. 
Since the end of the ﬁnancial year we completed the purchase of
the minority shareholdings in George Weston Foods in Australia at
a cost of £58 million. In early October we announced the purchase
of Ovaltine, the branded malted drinks business, from Novartis of
Switzerland for a consideration of £171 million. The acquisition
includes Ovaltine and associated brands throughout the world
except the US. The addition of this internationally known brand to
our product portfolio will enhance our presence in the international
consumer market for hot beverages. This acquisition is forecast to
be earnings enhancing in its ﬁrst year under our ownership.
In my last annual report I stated that the outlook for the year
ahead was one of escalating uncertainty and of reduction in
consumer conﬁdence. Financial markets throughout the world
over the past year have reﬂected that in moving consistently
lower. I believe that the coming months will bring little in the 
way of relief from these pressures as the global economy faces
up to the possibility of war in the Middle East, a seemingly
unending ﬁnancial crisis in Japan and low to zero growth in the 
US and Europe. No company as large and widespread in its
activities as ours can be totally immune from these inﬂuences.
Despite this gloomy outlook I believe that this company can face
the coming year with the conﬁdence that it will maintain its positive
growth in sales and operating proﬁt. In the past year, we have
invested over £450 million on acquisitions and capital expenditure
in our existing businesses. Such is the strength of our cash ﬂow
that we have ﬁnanced all this without any signiﬁcant reduction in
the level of our net liquid funds. These investments and the further
acquisitions since our year end will have a positive effect on our
operating performance in the coming year.
The growth of your company has been ﬁnanced from its own
resources. The value of this long-held and important discipline 
is clearly demonstrated in today’s hostile ﬁnancial environment
where the very existence of many companies is threatened by
their inability to service debt taken on in more expansionary times.
Our objective is to grow at a steady and sustainable pace funding
our development from cash ﬂow and a strong balance sheet. 
The base of our business has been signiﬁcantly reshaped in the
past three years. We have sought to eliminate areas of weakness
or irrelevance to our planned growth but at the same time we
have sought to strengthen and expand those sectors which can
act as the framework for our future development. I am conﬁdent
that your company can maintain its current momentum. 
Board changes
The appointment of Mike Alexander as an additional non-executive
director was announced in January this year. Mr Alexander is
executive director and chief operating officer of Centrica plc,
having previously held a number of management positions with
BP and latterly with British Gas. He brings a wealth of operational
management experience and will make a strong contribution to
our activities.
Dividends 
The directors have declared a second interim dividend of 9.00p
(2001 – 7.55p) which will be paid on 18 February 2003 to
shareholders registered at the close of business on 17 January 2003. Annual Report and Accounts 2002 7
This makes a total dividend for the year of 13.25p, an increase 
of 12% on the previous year.
Employees 
The pace of change in our organisation owes much to our 
employees around the world who have not only risen to the
challenges this poses but have made major contributions in taking 
us forward. The successes we are recording in this report are a
testament to their efforts and I take this opportunity to thank them all.
Chairman 
Your company is well placed to achieve further growth. It has an
excellent management team and a solid ﬁnancial base.
Having served as a director for the last 23 years I feel that it is the
appropriate time to step down and I have notiﬁed the board that 
I intend to retire immediately following the annual general meeting.
My successor as Chairman will be Martin Adamson, a fellow board
member who will bring to the role a wealth of business experience
and a breadth of knowledge of your company’s activities. I wish
him and my colleagues every success in the years ahead.
Harry Bailey  
Chairman
‘The growth of your company has been ﬁnanced from its own
resources... Our objective is to grow at a steady and sustainable
pace funding our development from cash ﬂow and a strong
balance sheet.’ 8 Associated British Foods plc
Chief Executive’s review
Businesses across the group again delivered excellent results,
increasing operating proﬁt, before exceptional items and
amortisation of goodwill, by 13% to £395 million and increasing
group sales by 3% to £4,545 million. Adjusted earnings per
share rose by 14% to 38.7p. 
A particularly pleasing aspect of these results is that, for the
second year running, four out of ﬁve of the business categories
outlined in our segmental analysis delivered operating proﬁt
increases in excess of 10%, a clear indication of the breadth 
of progress being made across the group.
Delivering sustained growth is however only one of our goals. 
The other major goal is the generation of strong cash ﬂow, the
means by which we will ensure our ongoing ability to invest heavily
in the capital projects and acquisitions necessary to underpin
future earnings growth. The cash ﬂow generated by the group over
the last year, after capital expenditure but before acquisitions and
disposals, was £229 million. This result demonstrates the strong
cash generating ability of the group.
Although our shareholders and our employees should take 
some satisfaction from these ﬁnancial results there have also
been other signs of progress. Good market positions have 
been strengthened, strong management teams have been
reinforced and a more international company is emerging 
with the ﬁrst rate new businesses acquired in North America,
Europe and Asia.
There is however much still to do in order to bring the company
closer to achieving its full potential. We need to do even more 
to develop our management teams and we must further increase
the focus we place on the marketing of our products. We must
also continue to review the performance and plans of all our
businesses to determine those where we can achieve the best
returns on our investment.
A key element of our future is the further development, either
organically or by acquisition, of very strong market positions 
that have the scale, cost base and breadth and depth of product
offering necessary to make a major impact on their markets. 
We still have a place for efﬁcient, smaller businesses with the
potential to grow, but the development of larger scale positions
will strengthen the base of our business and provide the platform
for signiﬁcant subsequent growth. 
One example of our ability to develop businesses is at ACH.
Here the business has moved, in a two year period, from 
being a medium size refiner, bottler and marketer of private
label cooking oils to becoming a leading player in the bottling
and marketing of oil based food products in North America. In
making this transition we outsourced the inefficient elements 
of our manufacturing operations and, with the acquisition of
strong brands in both foodservice and retailing, created strong
market positions with the scale necessary to optimise our
distribution and buying efficiencies. In time this strength will
inevitably provide further opportunities for significant growth. 
‘Good market positions have
been strengthened, strong
management teams have 
been reinforced and a more
international ABF is emerging
with the first rate new
businesses acquired in North
America, Europe and Asia.’
