 A key focus for the year has been on higher margin
activity. Gross profit as a percentage of sales increased
from 27.4% to 29.2%, reflecting the improving margins
within the business despite the adverse impact of the
strengthening of the Euro. Currency movements had a
negative impact on profitability for the year of £325,000.
During the year, we have continued to incur significant
restructuring costs and these have impacted on the
operating profit.
The surplus properties have now all been disposed of
and are no longer a distraction to the core business.
Cash flow was another focus for the Group during the
year and the operating cash inflow of £576,000 (2003:
£1.8 million before exceptional items) was encouraging,
given the profit performance.
Medical
The division is focused primarily on disposable products
for use within the NHS and the private healthcare sector.
It provides product and service solutions in the areas of
continence care, infection prevention and wound
management.
Divisional sales were £32.1 million, down from £33.3
million in 2003. Within the division, we saw another
strong performance from our Scottish distribution
business, Fast-Aid Products, whilst Macdonald & Taylor,
our cotton wool business, delivered a sound set of results
in difficult market conditions. Sales of Simply Gentle
Organic cotton wool again grew strongly, albeit from a
modest base.
Shiloh Healthcare, comprising the continence care,
infection prevention and wound management businesses
had a difficult year, facing fierce price competition as a
result of changes in purchasing strategies within the NHS.
At the half year, we said that we were reviewing strategy
as regards Home Delivery activities for continence care
products because this part of the business made losses 
in the early part of the year. We have now refined
warehousing and distribution systems to improve
profitability while maintaining service levels.
Overall, sales of continence care products were flat year
on year, although sales of product through the Home
Delivery service, where margins are lowest, increased by
more than 8%. Most of the negative currency
movements in Shiloh Healthcare were as a result of a
long-term supply agreement for sub-contracted
continence care products sold through the Home Delivery
service. We have negotiated a new arrangement with
The Group is in the process of transforming itself 
from operating in commodity healthcare sectors, which
demand high levels of overhead expenditure due to high
service levels expected by our key customers, to higher
margin branded products and services. 
Last year, I explained the restructuring of the business
into three divisions – Medical, Active Care and
Sterilisation Services. When we announced the half 
year results in October, we gave an update on trading
conditions and initiated a detailed review of costs and
sales given the poor performance in the first half of the
year, particularly in the Active Care division. As a result,
changes were implemented without delay and the cost
base reduced to reflect the sales which were lower than
we had anticipated. Although the result for the year is
disappointing, it is encouraging that it was slightly ahead
of our re-forecast following the detailed review.
Chief Executive’s
Review
6
“Our stategy remains on
course. Actions taken
during the second half of
the year have placed us in
a much stronger position
to deliver the strategy” substantially lower prices and no risk from currency movements. 
This arrangement started in the new financial year.
Sales of infection prevention products fell, as planned, by more than
25% year on year. This is consistent with our strategy allowing us to
concentrate on our own brand, Primeguard. 
Following the renewal of the NHS dry wipes contract, which we
announced at the half year, we have taken the decision to invest 
in state of the art manufacturing plant for this key product area. 
This equipment is currently being installed and we expect it to be 
in operation during the month of May. 
Sales of our new wound management products grew strongly during
the year both in the primary care (community) sector and in the acute
care (hospital) sector, where we now hold more than 12% of the
market. Following the year end, we have signed an agreement with
Pro-Tex Capillary Dressings Ltd who have appointed us as their exclusive
UK distributor for Vacutex, a novel primary wound dressing for use on
all kinds of chronic wounds. We see this as a major step in us further
developing this key market area.
Active Care
This division supplies and maintains a comprehensive range of mobility
and rehabilitation equipment across the UK. The range includes
wheelchairs, scooters, hoists, slings, stair lifts, ramps, chairs, beds and
general aids.
Division sales were £10.8 million, an increase of 8.4%. At the half year,
we said that two units had been closed and that further rationalisation
was planned. Since then we have closed three small and poorly
performing sites. Although we have lost some contract business in
Merseyside, we have been awarded two large wheelchair service and
repair contracts in Northern Ireland and Preston and accordingly have
opened two new sites. The result of this additional contract activity
means that our annual contract-oriented business has grown by more
than £0.5 million, further reducing our reliance on private sales. In line
with our stated aims, the proportion of institutional sales has increased
from 54% to 59%.
The re-branding exercise, introducing the “Shiloh Active Care” brand
across the Group, continues to progress according to our plans and we
expect the exercise to be complete early in the current financial year.
We have received a very positive response from both customers and
employees. The restructuring of our Active Care Division has been more
complex than anticipated and consolidation of computer systems in the
new financial year will enhance our ability to derive benefit from our
purchasing strength.
Our relationship with Sumed International UK Ltd and Roho Inc for
pressure care products remains very strong and much of the sales
increase in the year was as a result of these new arrangements. During
the current financial year, we will be changing the sales force structure
to ensure that even more emphasis is placed on this key area.
The new Mail Order catalogue has been well received and is already
making a good contribution to sales. We intend that private sales will
increasingly be made through this route with less dependency on the
traditional retail channel.
At the half year, we said that costs would be reduced in the second
half. This exercise was completed quickly with most of the savings
coming from the Active Care Division.
Sterilisation Services
This division was established as a new concept for the decontamination
of surgical instruments in the private sector. It operates from custom-
built sterilisation facilities at Bellshill, Lanarkshire.
The business performed well during the year with sales in line with the
previous year but with improved levels of gross profit as a result of an
increase in the focus on higher margin reprocessing work. The unit has
now established itself as a sound business with capacity to grow as new
opportunities arise.
In June 2003, the NHS announced its plans to upgrade
decontamination facilities throughout England. We have been very
active in this project and see this as a significant opportunity to expand
our division by building new facilities south of the border.
Management
It has been a difficult year for the business. The management team and
employees have worked hard in implementing the changes necessary to
rebase the business. 
During the year, Paul Davies was appointed Managing Director of Shiloh
Active Care. Paul has nearly twenty years experience of the mobility
industry having joined us in 2000 when we acquired ICR Mobility.
We also strengthened the finance team with the appointment of Marie
Greenwood as Financial Controller. Marie is a Chartered Accountant
and joined us from Northern Foods Plc.
Strategy
Our aim is to develop innovative, long-term, mutually-beneficial
partnerships with healthcare providers in the supply of continence care,
mobility and rehabilitation, prevention of infection and wound
management. These partnerships will add value through the supply,
distribution and brand development of the products and services we
provide.
Our intention is to:
  consolidate the four mobility acquisitions under the Shiloh
Active Care brand and create a market-leading company in a
fragmented market by focusing on our core strength in
contract rather than retail sales
  grow the medical business by adding complementary products
in the continence care, infection prevention and wound
management markets, either through acquisition or through
distribution arrangements
  establish new sterilisation facilities in England using experience
derived from our Bellshill unit
Our strategy remains on course although we recognise that the
transformation process has taken longer than we envisaged. We believe
that actions taken in the second half of the year have placed us in a
much stronger position to deliver the strategy.
7
Graham J Collyer Chief Executive
