 4 Shire plc Annual Report 2012
2012 highlights
We have enjoyed another strong year
We have a solid foundation for  
going forward
We are well positioned for continued  
global growth
At Shire we have always embraced 
change as an opportunity to become 
even better. Looking ahead, we are well 
prepared to enjoy the next chapter of 
growth in our ongoing story.
We have enjoyed another strong year at Shire. This is particularly 
pleasing, given the backdrop of challenges across the 
pharmaceuticals industry and the world economy. 
Over the years we have established a fantastic record of growth, 
built on the vision and leadership of successive Chief Executives 
and the talent, skills and dedication of all our employees. Our 
success is a credit to both the individuals involved and the unique 
culture of Shire.
Focusing on patients
We continue to follow our strategy of focusing on meeting the 
needs of selected groups of patients with conditions where we 
have products and expertise. We have always had this specialised 
approach and continue to believe it is the right strategy for the 
future. But around this core principle is the need to adapt and 
evolve. We are never complacent and we will continue to change, 
to keep the Company competitive, keep it growing and moving 
forward. This is everyone’s job in Shire. 
Change is our strength
The ability of the Company to change is its greatest strength. It has 
enabled Shire to progress from a small company only offering one 
treatment in one market to becoming a multifaceted specialist 
company offering patient solutions around the world. For us 
change is the responsible thing to do. By changing in the right way 
we maintain and live up to our role as an industry leader but more 
importantly offer patients medicines and hope not there before.
Chairman’s review
Matthew Emmens 
Chairman Overview
 Shire plc Annual Report 2012  5  5
Change has also been a feature of the Board in recent years. We 
now have a complex multinational business and the Board has 
evolved accordingly. We have the right balance of skill sets and 
experience to enable continued success. Membership includes 
pharmaceutical backgrounds, as well as those with depth in 
ﬁnance, international banking, private equity, medicine and science. 
Courage and wisdom
Change takes courage – it’s a key outcome of our brave culture. 
Change takes wisdom, too. You need to know what to change and 
how to change it and you need to have the right people in place, 
with the right attitude at the right time.
Speaking of the right people, we have been very fortunate to have 
had Angus Russell as Chief Executive over the last several years – 
his contributions have been many. On behalf of the Board I would 
like to thank Angus for his excellent leadership that has brought the 
Company to where it stands today and we wish him and his family 
well in his retirement.
With the retirement of Angus, I am conﬁdent that his successor,  
Dr. Flemming Ornskov, will lead us to the next level of success and 
international growth. Flemming comes with an impressive set of 
skills and considerable international experience, including working 
with both large and small companies. And his background as a 
physician will be a great asset to ensure we keep our patient focus. 
I look forward to working closely with Flemming in the months and 
years ahead. We also welcomed Dr. Steven Gillis to the Board of 
Directors this year, he brings deep technical and scientiﬁc 
knowledge as well as an entrepreneurial approach.
Continuing to grow and succeed
Looking ahead, we have a sound strategy and we are committed 
to continue to grow internationally, to increase our patient focus 
and add even greater value. For us, a changing world is a good 
thing. It’s an opportunity to see the world differently; to seize the 
initiative and ultimately strengthen the business and ensure 
continued growth and success.
We employ over 
 
5,300
people in  
29 countries
 Lead
A
m
b
in
w
t
u
c
s
S Shi Shi Shi Shi Sh re re re e e re plc plc plc plc plc plc plc lc lc lc lc lc c c c c c An An An An n n n n n An n n n n n n An n n n An n n n n n n n An n n n n n n n n n n n n nnu nua ual R l R Re ep epo epo po port rt rt rt t 201 20 20 01 01 12 2 2 2 c c c
We employ ov
people 
29 countrie Acting like a leader 
means being responsible 
by taking ownership and 
nﬂuencing in our own 
way, being prepared 
to go ﬁrst, to speak 
up and to 
challenge the 
status quo.
