 6 Shire plc Annual Report 2012
This year saw us continue to deliver on 
our growth commitments and further 
advance our pipeline. We articulated  
a 2020 vision and built on our unique 
culture of aspiring to be as brave as  
the people we help.
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review
Continuing to deliver
We achieved our target of mid-teens earnings growth again this 
year, having delivered ahead of expectations for the last couple of 
years with growth rates of over 20%. 
The business continued to perform extremely well. VYVANSE and 
INTUNIV, our treatments for attention deﬁcit hyperactivity disorder 
(“ADHD”), both increased their share of the growing US market, 
further consolidating our leading position in this area. FIRAZYR, our 
treatment for hereditary angiodema, launched strongly in the US 
and we continued robust global sales of our other rare disease 
treatments: ELAPRASE, for Hunter syndrome, VPRIV, for Gaucher 
disease, and REPLAGAL, for Fabry disease. We underlined our 
belief in our Regenerative Medicine business through announcing 
investment in a new campus in California and the rollout of a new 
commercial strategy.
Looking to extend our treatments
During the year we had continued successes in our clinical 
milestones for our program of new uses for VYVANSE. 
We are undertaking late stage studies for lisdexamfetamine 
dimesylate (“LDX”), the active ingredient in VYVANSE, as a 
treatment for major depressive disorder and recently initiated  
our Phase 3 programs for binge eating disorder and negative 
symptoms of schizophrenia. 
In addition, we have identiﬁed potential new indications for 
FIRAZYR and DERMAGRAFT. Our intrathecal trials for Hunter 
CNS, SanFilippo A and Metachromatic Leukodystrophy are also 
2012 highlights
We continued to deliver growth 
We advanced our pipeline, creating signiﬁcant 
opportunities for growth beyond 2015
We distilled and communicated where we  
want to take the company: our 2020 vision
Angus Russell 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Overview
   7
can help and add value around beyond the provision of treatments. 
Educating people so they really understand a rare disease for 
example, or helping patients treat themselves at home rather than 
having to travel long distances to specialist centers. There’s a lot 
more we can do to help patients and their physicians, building 
greater value for everyone involved along the way. And this is what 
our new 2020 vision is about. Being a responsible business goes 
to the heart of our vision and for us is distilled to a single core 
consideration: What is the right thing to do? This guides everything 
we do from day-to-day across our business.
Taking brave steps to do more for our patients
Our view of the world, with the patient at the centre, has directly 
driven our shared culture of aspiring to be as brave as the people 
we help. Our decentralised, market-driven and increasingly 
international business is united by this shared commitment to 
identify new ways to help our patients as much as we possibly can.
Transforming the business
Our shared culture will continue to be fundamental as we enter our 
next stage of global expansion. The globalisation of our business is 
one of the most exciting development opportunities since I joined 
the Company 13 years ago. When I came to the Company in 1999 
we were dependent on one product for ADHD in the US. Now we 
have a strong portfolio of products across behavioral health, gastro 
intestinal diseases, rare genetic diseases and regenerative 
medicine, which we sell in over 50 markets around the world. 
Looking ahead, we have a huge global opportunity with a very 
strong platform and a proven strategy and business model for 
future growth.
Our highly specialized, patient-focused, collaborative approach is 
increasingly seen as the way forward in our industry – we have led 
the way. As I prepare to retire from the business, I am extremely 
proud of what we have achieved together and look forward to 
seeing the continued growth and success of the Company in the 
years ahead.
progressing as anticipated. So through this year we managed  
to build a very good late stage pipeline to fuel our growth in the 
years ahead.
We also added to our expertise in hematology through our 
acquisition of Ferrokin and strengthened our regenerative medicine 
pipeline with the acquisition of Pervasis, bringing us the Phase 2 
product in development, VASCUGEL. 
Preparing to launch ELVANSE across Europe
We received approval of ELVANSE (currently marketed in the US as 
VYVANSE) and we are now preparing for launch in eight European 
markets. We already have experience of the ADHD market in 
Europe through our EQUASYM product and we know that there is 
a patient need for a product with the proﬁle of ELVANSE. The 
launch will be a signiﬁcant milestone in the globalization of our 
major ADHD franchise and the company overall. It follows our 
successful launch of VYVANSE (marketed as VENVANSE) in Brazil.
Collaborating for quicker better outcomes
Our collaborative culture is a key Shire strength. We’re moving into 
a world where more people are seeing the beneﬁts of partnerships 
and collaboration with outside agencies, companies and 
academia. It’s a much better model, because it gives you access to 
a wider range of opportunities and skill sets that can enhance the 
solutions we develop for our patients. At Shire, partnering and 
collaborating with third parties has always been a core capability 
and it ﬁts the increasingly changing and dynamic world in 
healthcare, where you have to make a lot of quick decisions and 
timeframes tend to be shorter in terms of product development 
and opportunity. We have worked with partners from day one. It’s 
just more of the same for us. We’re building our collaborations, with 
academia, with institutions, with companies that work in the areas 
of expertise that we’re focused on, such as rare genetic diseases. 
In doing this we are investing in the best ideas.
Putting patients at the heart of everything we do
Over the past few years the world of healthcare has completely 
changed – aligning with our objectives and business model. 
Markets are much more heterogeneous now, and one size does 
not ﬁt all. You have to tailor your innovation, your capabilities and 
your treatments to suit individual needs. This is where our focus of 
putting the patient at the center of everything we do and focusing 
on specialist treated and rare diseases with small patient numbers 
puts us in a strong position. It allows us to understand the needs of 
the patients and the relatively small number of physicians who help 
them. Our relationships with them provide us with real insights into 
how patients live their lives – the challenges they face and how we 
 People
Our patients’ health
needs are more tha
provision of a treatm
ﬁnding new holistic
to support patients
their needs at a cos
that society can
reasonably bear.
Our shared culture  
aspires to be as  
brave as the  
people we help 
h ‘care’ 
an the 
ment, it’s 
c solutions 
s and 
st 
aspires to be as
brave as the 
people we help 
