 02 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Susan Kilsby
Chairman
Chairman’s review
02 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
At Shire we focus on people. 
Those that work for us, partner 
with us, invest in our strategy 
and, above all, those who 
depend on the medicines we 
make every day. Our purpose is 
to help people with life-altering 
conditions lead better lives. We 
ask the questions that are raised 
by rare and specialty diseases and 
pursue new possibilities through 
thoughtful and innovative science.
Creating exceptional value
When we do what is good, we believe good follows. Value 
is created not just for the patients, but for physicians, 
caregivers, employees, communities, payers, policymakers, 
and shareholders—for anyone or any institution that our 
global company can touch. And value, we were reminded 
this year, can be created—and recognized—in so many ways.  ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 03
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Extraordinary results
We had an eventful year in 2014. We had unprecedented 
fi nancial results as you’ll see in the pages to come. We 
completed our acquisition of ViroPharma and successfully 
integrated this organization, serving new patients with the 
product CINRYZE
®
, a medicine for the infl ammatory condition 
known as Hereditary Angioedema. At the same time, we 
acquired two rare diseases entities—Lumena and Fibrotech. 
We fortifi ed our presence in established therapies and opened 
doors to new ones, including Ophthalmics. We moved into 
our new International Operational Headquarters in Zug, 
Switzerland and reinvigorated our presence in Europe, Asia 
and Latin America. We continued to streamline operations 
and to put the right people into the right jobs to complement 
the immediate impact of mergers and acquisitions with our 
focus on continuing organic growth. On behalf of adults with 
Binge Eating Disorder, we fi led in the US for a supplemental 
new drug application for VYVANSE
®
 which the Food and Drug 
Administration (“FDA”) approved on January 30, 2015 as the 
fi rst and only medication for the treatment for this disorder. 
And, most recently, we acquired NPS Pharma bringing two 
exciting rare disease therapies into our product portfolio.
We were again recognized as a constituent of the FTSE4Good 
Index Series, a leading responsibility investment index, and 
also earned the distinction from Corporate Knights in their 
ranking of the 2015 Global 100 Most Sustainable 
Corporations in the World. 
We accomplished all this while responding to AbbVie as 
it considered the role that Shire might play within its own 
strategic framework. We never lost sight of the company 
that Shire is throughout the process. 
We have a strong, independent future. And we’re passionate 
about building it.
Executing our strategy
Our plan moving forward is to emerge as a leading global 
biotech focused on rare diseases and other speciality 
conditions. To get there, we’ll continue our investment in 
our four key strategic drivers: growth, innovation, effi ciency, 
and people. Under the leadership of our Chief Executive 
Offi cer, Dr. Flemming Ornskov, we’ll strengthen—and 
sustain—our platform through our focused approach to 
mergers and acquisitions, pipeline advancement, and cash 
management. We’ll rely on the people who make Shire what 
it is—a diversifi ed team representing many skills and broad 
experiences.
Outstanding contributions
Our Board of Directors made signifi cant contributions to Shire 
throughout 2014—going far above and beyond expectations 
to render opinions and weigh choices. I have the distinct 
pleasure of working with Board members who bring the full 
complement of scientifi c, medical, fi nancial, organizational 
and commercial insights to bear on complex opportunities. 
In closing, I would like to extend my gratitude to the people 
of Shire who remained focused on what mattered most 
throughout the year—our patients. The world is a healthier 
place, thanks to Shire. Our people are the reason.
Susan Kilsby
Chairman
We have a strong, 
independent future.
And we’re passionate 
about building it.
