 Chief Executive Officer’s review
We have enjoyed a strong year 
characterized by wide‑ranging change, 
good results and the outstanding 
contributions of our people who 
continue to make all the difference 
to our patient‑focused success.
Delivering strong results
In 2013, we refined and strengthened 
our strategy and created a simpler, 
more streamlined, integrated 
organization – One Shire. We also 
established our In-line and Pipeline 
committees to further reinforce our 
focus on commercial excellence 
and innovation. This enabled 
us to significantly reset our cost 
base and accelerate our growth.
  MORE ONLINE AT : 
AR2013.SHIRE.COM
WWW.SHIRE.COM 06 In my first year as Chief Executive, 
I am pleased to say that Shire has 
made considerable progress, achieving 
a great deal. 
Resetting our strategy
The first accomplishment was to reset 
our strategy – honing in on certain high 
growth areas within specialty medicine. 
We are focusing even more than before 
on rare, specialized conditions, building 
on our strengths and on where there is the 
greatest potential to grow and make a real 
difference to patients’ lives. Our priorities 
are to drive optimum performance from 
our currently marketed In-line products 
for patients today, and to build our Pipeline 
of potential products for patients in the 
future through focused R&D and business 
development.
Reorganizing to form One Shire
To better support this strategic focus, 
we reorganized the Company to form a 
simpler, more cohesive and streamlined 
organization – One Shire. Instead of three 
separate divisions, we now have four 
business units, focused exclusively on 
the commercial execution of our In-line 
products in our specialist therapeutic 
areas: Rare Diseases, Neuroscience, 
Gastrointestinal (GI) and Internal Medicine. 
Our single R&D organization focuses 
on developing our pipeline of innovative 
treatments to address unmet patient 
needs. And we have one global business 
development team that searches for 
value-added therapeutics that fit our 
strategic focus.
The reorganization of Shire is well 
advanced, with some final internal 
systems and processes to be concluded 
over 2014. We will, however, always seek 
to adopt new approaches and structures 
in the pursuit of continuous improvement 
and delivery of growth.
Changing the way we manage 
the Company
We also changed the way we manage the 
business – reconstituting the Executive 
Committee (formerly known as the 
Leadership Team) as well as establishing 
two new management committees – the 
In-line Committee and the Pipeline 
Committee. The Executive Committee 
manages the business of the Shire group. 
The In-line Committee is responsible for 
ensuring the optimal performance of our 
current portfolio of marketed products. 
The Pipeline Committee is responsible for 
overseeing and driving the development of 
our pipeline of future products. As a result, 
we have been better able to enhance sales 
and address performance of our In-line 
products and also consider our Pipeline 
investments and business development 
strategy on a Shire-wide basis.
Reducing costs
Significant cost savings are coming from 
our much simpler, more streamlined, 
integrated organization. This has enabled 
us to direct our investment into the areas 
that we believe will provide growth for the 
Company in the future.
Delivering efficient growth
Additionally, we have been able to 
streamline decision making, so we can 
make faster decisions with a more acute 
focus on customers. In our Neuroscience 
One Shire 
reorganization
well underway
Resetting  
our cost  
base
Growth in 
the short and 
long term
In-line Pipeline
In-line: Drive optimum 
performance from our currently 
marketed products
Pipeline: Build our future 
assets through both R&D and 
Business Development
WWW.SHIRE.COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 07
Strategic report
Governance Financial statements Other information The Premacure AB (“Premacure”) 
acquisition brought us a Phase 2 protein 
replacement therapy for the prevention 
of ROP . A rare and potentially blinding eye 
disorder that primarily affects premature 
babies, ROP is one of the most common 
causes of visual loss in childhood and 
there are only symptomatic treatments 
available. 
Our move into ophthalmology was 
enhanced by the acquisition of SARcode 
Bioscience, Inc. (“SARcode”). SARcode 
brought us Lifitegrast (SHP606) in Phase 3 
development for the treatment of Dry Eye 
disease, a chronic and potentially 
debilitating ocular disease. The worldwide 
market for Dry Eye disease was worth 
$1.5 billion
1
 in 2012 and is growing. We 
announced top-line data from a Phase 3 
clinical trial and were pleased to meet the 
primary symptom endpoint, although the 
primary sign endpoint was not met. This 
is the first drug to show a statistically 
significant improvement in the prespecified 
symptoms of Dry Eye disease in a Phase 3 
clinical trial. We will be discussing these 
findings with the Food and Drug 
Administration (“FDA”) and hope in due 
course to be able to make Lifitegrast 
available to patients with this potentially 
debilitating condition.
Towards the end of the year, we 
announced a significant strategic 
acquisition of the high growth, rare 
disease biopharmaceutical company 
ViroPharma for approximately $4.2billion. 
The acquisition brought us a new growth-
driving product, CINRYZE, used for the 
prophylactic treatment for Hereditary 
Angiodema (HAE), complementing Shire’s 
FIRAZYR, which is used for the treatment 
of acute HAE attacks. The acquisition also 
brought us other In-line and Pipeline 
assets. In addition to enhancing both 
Shire’s immediate and long term growth 
prospects, the acquisition is also expected 
to bring significant cost synergies.
1 
Source: Team analysis; evaluate pharma
Making the most of existing assets
As well as focusing on finding and 
acquiring great new assets and 
opportunities for Shire, we also work 
hard to make the most of our existing 
assets, whether by taking them into new 
countries or by exploring and developing 
new uses for them. Take for example 
lisdexamfetamine dimesylate (“LDX”), 
as the active ingredient in VYVANSE, 
our treatment for ADHD in the US. We 
are exploring the very real potential for 
LDX to form the basis of treatment for 
Binge Eating Disorder (BED). Estimates 
suggest there are around three million 
patients with BED in the US. This is a 
huge unmet need with no currently 
approved pharmacologic treatment. 
Positive results in Phase 3 BED trials 
in 2013 underline the great potential of 
this new use for LDX. We are currently 
discussing the next steps with the FDA.
In line with our strategy to prioritize 
investments that have the greatest 
strategic clinical and commercial value, in 
January 2014 we sold our DERMAGRAFT 
assets to Organogenesis, Inc. Despite 
great efforts, we could not generate the 
growth in sales that we expected from 
this product. As a result of this transaction, 
we are now able to concentrate our 
investment and resources on products 
and pipeline programs that have better 
profitability and growth prospects.
Continuing to change
If you look at the history of Shire over 
the past 25 years, we have always been 
a fast growing, adaptive company. Shire 
continues to evolve, never stands still and 
we strive to surprise, positively. This ability 
to embrace and incorporate change is key 
to our success. It is in our DNA.
Chief Executive Officer’s 
review continued
business unit for example, we have 
restructured and reinvested in our sales 
force in the US to help provide better 
service to physicians. 
As a result of strong product sales 
growth and reducing costs, our bottom 
line profitability has improved, reflecting 
our focus on delivering efficient growth.
Focusing our innovation
We have restructured our R&D 
organization into one innovation-driven 
team. In our early stage research we 
have committed to focus on rare diseases, 
where there is significant unmet need 
and where we have strong expertise. 
Our current pipeline has a very promising 
range of late stage assets and we will 
seek to add to these through business 
development. By aligning our efforts and 
investments on fewer areas with greater 
potential, we aim to be more efficient 
and effective in developing our portfolio 
of distinctive and innovative products in 
our chosen areas of specialization.
Acquiring great new assets
We announced four acquisitions in 2013 to 
further strengthen our Pipeline and In-line 
portfolio. These all fit our growth strategy 
by adding to our strength in specialized 
or Rare Diseases.
With Lotus Tissue Repair, Premacure and 
SARcode Biosciences, we have exciting 
new assets in areas of unmet patient need, 
with significant growth opportunities. 
Lotus Tissue Repair, Inc. (“Lotus Tissue 
Repair”) is developing the first and 
currently only protein replacement therapy 
for the treatment of DEB, a devastating 
orphan disease for which there is no 
currently approved treatment option other 
than palliative care. The product is in late 
preclinical development and has the 
potential to be a first-in-class systemic 
therapy for the treatment of DEB. 
08 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.SHIRE.COM Putting patients at the heart of our 
business
A core aspect of Shire is our very real 
focus on patients. Like change, it has 
always been part of what makes us 
special. When we try to be great in a 
specialized area, the first thing we look at 
is the patient. Are there significant unmet 
patient needs? Do we truly understand 
these patients? Do we have the product 
or potential product to meet their needs? 
Putting patients at the heart of our 
business has always been our guiding 
principle. It is why there are pictures of 
patients around our offices everywhere 
and it is reinforced by our enduring culture 
of striving to be as brave as the patients we 
serve. Our BRAVE culture is integral to the 
way we attract and retain great people. It 
keeps the Company fresh and engaged. 
And it plays a major part in our people’s 
remarkable ability to continue to deliver 
results while also focusing on changing 
for the future.
Our people
I would like to take this opportunity 
to thank everyone in Shire for their 
tremendous contribution this year and 
for their amazing willingness to embrace 
change for the better.
After almost six years at Shire, Graham 
Hetherington is stepping down as Chief 
Financial Officer (CFO) on March 1, 2014. 
We are grateful for Graham’s many 
contributions to the Company and wish 
him all the best. Shire’s Senior Vice 
President and Group Financial Controller 
James Bowling will be interim CFO and 
we are undertaking the global search for 
Graham’s successor.
Evolving the business
This year we have undergone another 
evolution in Shire. We have increased 
our focus on developing and marketing 
innovative specialty medicines to meet 
significant unmet patient needs and we 
have simplified and streamlined to reset 
our cost base and accelerate our growth. 
We now have a sharper, stronger Shire – 
a Shire that is well set for high growth 
both in the top and bottom line. In the 
years ahead we will focus on even more 
specialty, even more rare diseases, even 
more targeted conditions where we can 
lead the way in developing and delivering 
treatments for patients.
Investors have responded well to the 
changes and we were pleased with the 
steady and significant increase in Shire’s 
share price during 2013. We are grateful 
to our shareholders for their continued 
support as we continue to do everything 
we can to build the success and grow 
the value of Shire. 
Focusing on growth
Where 2013 was essentially a year of 
evolution, we expect that 2014 will above 
all be a year of growth. We now have 
a sharper focus and a stronger more 
streamlined organization together with 
our BRAVE culture and unswerving 
commitment to patients with specialized 
conditions. 
Boosted by this firm foundation, we will 
focus on growth – through our existing 
In-line products, through our Pipeline of 
potential products and through identifying 
and maximizing all the opportunities that 
lie ahead. I look forward to another 
exciting year for Shire.
Dr. Flemming Ornskov
Chief Executive Officer
WWW.SHIRE.COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 09
Strategic report
Governance Financial statements Other information
