 04 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Heading
Sub heading
In 2014 we delivered record sales 
and proﬁ tability, and continued 
to strengthen our pipeline of 
important medicines to enable 
people with life altering conditions 
to lead better lives.
At the same time we embarked on our course with the aim of 
becoming a leading global biotech building on the foundation 
laid by our One Shire reorganization. For us, it was a year 
of delivering outstanding results and superior shareholder 
returns, setting a clear direction and gaining momentum.
Moving forward
One of the highlights of 2014 for me was the ongoing journey 
to transform Shire into a high-growth, more effi cient, more 
innovative organization with a streamlined structure.
We made great progress in this regard and our success was 
the result of a tremendous team effort to achieve a step 
change in growth, profi tability, cash generation and to 
increase the value of our pipeline.
We were also focused. A prime example was our rapid and 
effective integration of ViroPharma following completion of 
the $4 billion acquisition early in the year. We successfully 
accelerated the growth of CINRYZE which came to us 
through the ViroPharma acquisition while obtaining 
operational synergies and advancing the acquired pipeline.
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s review
4 04 4 4 0 0 S SH SH SHI SH S S S SHIRE RE RE PLC PLC PLC PLC P PL L A A AN AN NNUA NUA NUAL R L R L REPO EPO EPO PORT RT RT RT R R 201 201 201 2014 4 4 4
to s
imp
peo
to le
At the
becom
laid by
of deli
returns
Movin
One o
to tran
innova
We ma
the res
chang
increa
We we
effecti
the $4
accele
throug
operat
Dr. Flemming Ornskov
Chief Executive Offi cer
04 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 05
A clear direction
Our aspiration is to become a leading global biotech 
delivering innovative medicines to patients with rare diseases 
and other specialty conditions. We are prioritizing those areas 
that enable us to realize our purpose and maintain leading 
positions in the therapeutic areas in which we compete. 
Our commercial excellence is driving superior top-line results 
and our operational effi ciency is enabling us to reinvest for 
the future. We have highly effective business development 
capabilities and a robust and innovative pipeline. Simply put, 
we are a high-growth, highly innovative company making a 
real difference in people’s lives. 
The best of two worlds
We are uniquely placed to make a difference in people’s lives 
due to our distinctive mix of complementary business units 
and capabilities. I like to think of it as a triangle with our 
Rare Diseases business unit at the center, where we are 
increasingly focusing our R&D dollars, supported by the 
strength of the products in our specialty business units – 
Neuroscience, Gastrointestinal (GI) and Internal Medicine, 
and our recently added Ophthalmics business unit. Through 
this combination we get the best of two worlds – the future 
long-term growth and opportunities of Rare Diseases, which 
was our fastest growing business (+46%
1
) in 2014, and the 
continued foundation and growth of our cash-generating 
specialty products, which contribute signifi cantly to our 
Rare Disease R&D dollars. 
Moreover, there is an interplay between our business units 
that aids our current and future innovation and growth as we 
adapt our existing therapeutic area expertise to a rare disease 
focus. We are leveraging our domain expertise in rare 
diseases in the development of an intrathecal delivery device 
for enzyme replacement therapies and this year we partnered 
with ArmaGen to conduct research into therapies that can 
cross the blood-brain barrier for Hunter syndrome. We have 
added to our Ophthalmics pipeline with the acquisition of the 
specialist biotech company BIKAM Pharmaceuticals with its 
preclinical asset, SHP630, in development for the potential 
treatment of autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa. In 
addition, through our acquisition of Lumena we have added 
late stage pipeline assets for rare GI/hepatic conditions, and 
through our acquisition of Fibrotech we added an antifi brotic 
agent for focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. Our most 
recent acquisition of NPS Pharma further builds upon our rare 
disease expertise with therapies for Short Bowel Syndrome 
(“SBS”) and Hyperparathyroidism (“HPT”).
Our distinctive mix of complementary 
business units and capabilities
Rare
Diseases
Ophthalmics
Neuroscience
GI & Internal 
Medicine
Our domain expertise in rare diseases is a key differentiator 
for Shire. It enables us to make the most of our belief that 
those living with rare conditions are just as deserving of 
treatment as those living with more common conditions.
To build on our distinctive focus and strengths, we have four 
strategic drivers: growth, innovation, effi ciency and people. 
In 2014 we hit signifi cant milestones across all four.
Driving strong growth across all our businesses
Shire delivered growth through commercial excellence across 
all of our business units. 
In Rare Diseases, through our acquisition of ViroPharma, 
we added and accelerated the sales growth of CINRYZE 
(+30%) on a pro forma basis
2
, an innovative product for 
the prophylactic treatment of Hereditary Angiodema (HAE) 
attacks. FIRAZYR
®
, our treatment for acute HAE attacks, 
also grew strongly (+55%). In our GI business, LIALDA
®
 
has become the number one prescribed 5-ASA in the US
3
 in 
2014 and gained an additional 5% of market share in 2014. 
In Neuroscience, VYVANSE sales grew 18% as more patients 
continued to use VYVANSE to treat their Attention Defi cit 
Hyperactivity Disorder (“ADHD”). 
1
 Product sales growth including CINRYZE products sales acquired 
in January 2014 with ViroPharma. 
2
 2013 CINRYZE product sales reported by ViroPharma.
3
 IMS SFSS Attribute Ranking Table Study.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 06 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
We grew around the world too – continuing to expand our 
footprint with products available in 68 countries including 
the launch of two products, VPRIV
®
 and AGRYLIN
®
, in Japan. 
Sales outside of the US were $1.75 billion, an increase of 
11% versus 2013. 
Much of our growth outside of the US was driven by our Rare 
Diseases business unit, particularly in Europe and the Middle 
East and Africa, with these regions accounting for more than 
50% of our revenues outside the US. Despite the clinical, 
regulatory, and commercial challenges with bringing a rare 
disease treatment to market, we reached eight new 
international markets in 2014. In addition, the launch of 
ELVANSE
®
 (marketed as VYVANSE in the US) has been 
a success launching in four countries this year, making 
the product available in 12 markets outside of the US. Our 
international GI business unit has also shown strong growth 
this year, with MEZAVANT
®
 (marketed as LIALDA in the US) 
net sales growing by 12% and RESOLOR
®
 net sales 
increasing by 26%. 
Enhancing our innovation
Through 2014 we continued to concentrate our R&D on rare 
diseases – the majority of our research dollars now goes into 
this area. Overall, we invested $840 million on a Non GAAP 
basis in R&D
2
 and we hosted our fi rst R&D Day showcasing 
the innovation in our pipeline. In 2014, we have 27 programs 
in clinical development, 22 of them distinct, the balance 
relating to new markets or new indications – the most in 
Shire’s history. 
Mixing internal and external innovation, we have built a strong 
rare diseases platform in several areas, including enzyme 
replacement, plasma-derived products, kidney and fi brotic 
related conditions, and now in rare gastrointestinal/hepatic 
diseases, with the acquisition of Lumena. This enables us 
to develop products that can be brought to market in new 
areas where there is a high medical need.
Alongside our strong research capability in rare diseases, we 
made excellent progress in enhancing our specialty pipeline. 
In Neuroscience for example, we explored product 
candidates such as SHP465, a potential treatment for ADHD 
in adults. We are also entering new markets with VYVANSE, 
having received FDA approval on January 30, 2015 for the 
treatment of Binge Eating Disorder (“BED”) in adults. BED 
affects an estimated 2.8 million
1
 US patients and VYVANSE 
is the only FDA approved treatment for this condition.
Increasing efﬁ ciency throughout our organization
Our ongoing drive to increase effi ciency gained momentum 
through the year as we took advantage of the signifi cant 
reorganization undertaken in 2013 to streamline and simplify 
Shire. This was a contributor to our achievements in the year, 
notably our profi tability, which is at an all-time high with a Non 
GAAP EBITDA margin of 44%
2
 ; our ability to generate cash, 
with cash generation of $2.4 billion
2
 in 2014; and our sales 
per employee, $1.2 million. We also simplifi ed our global 
footprint by establishing our US Operational Headquarters in 
Lexington, Massachusetts and our International Operational 
 Headquarters in Zug, Switzerland.
Attracting, rewarding and retaining great people 
Throughout 2014 we continued to hire and retain excellent 
talent at all levels. Our performance in a year which included 
the uncertainty and distraction resulting from the offer from 
AbbVie, is a testament to the great commitment, skills and 
resilience of our people, who continued to focus on their work 
and delivered record revenue and Non GAAP earnings. This 
refl ects not only the dedication of our people but also the 
strength of our patient-focused culture. I’m proud that we are 
increasingly recognized as a company where great people do 
great work to help transform lives around the world.
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s review
(continued)
Product sales; Percent CAGR 
10 x 20 Details
 > In-Line: $7 billion expected 
from on-market products
3
 > Pipeline: $3 billion 
expected from existing 
pipeline
3
 > Upside: NPS Pharma, 
Lumena, Fibrotech, BIKAM, 
CINRYZE new uses, early 
stage pipeline and future 
business development 
provide additional upside 
to 10 x 20
 In-line 
 Existing Pipeline
 Upside
$5bn*
$7bn
$3bn
+10% CAGR
2013 2020
$10+bn
1
 Hudson JI, Hiripi E, Pope HG, Kessler RC. The prevalence and correlates of 
eating disorder in the National Comorbidity Survey Replication. Biol Psychiatry. 
2007;61(3):348-358. Erratum in Biol Psychiatry. 2012;72(2):164 and Howden 
LM, et al. Age and sex composition: 2010. US Census Bureau; 2011.
2
 This is a Non GAAP ﬁ nancial measure. For reconciliation to US GAAP please 
see page 166.
3
 Shire announced its 10x20 aspiration on June 23, 2014 and seeks to achieve 
2020 product sales of $10 billion from its In-line and Pipeline portfolio as at 
May 2014.
*  $5bn represents sales from 
continuing operations. ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 07
I am thankful for the leadership of our employees and their 
outstanding contributions through such a successful and 
eventful year. Shire has become a place that attracts people 
because it has the things they are looking for – low hierarchy, 
quick decision making, interesting products, and collaborative 
colleagues. As we continue to grow and pursue our goal to be 
a leader in biotech, Shire is a place which offers increasing 
opportunities and rewards for everyone involved.
I would also like to thank our investors for their continued 
loyalty. I am very pleased and proud of the fact that we attract 
investors who continue to support us on our journey. 
Aiming to lead in biotech
Our four strategic drivers – growth, effi ciency, innovation and 
people – are the engines propelling us forward on our journey 
to become a leading global biotech with a focus on rare 
diseases and specialty conditions. We have made signifi cant 
progress this year but we also recognize that we are still in the 
early stages of our journey. We remain committed to being 
a lean, streamlined, innovation-driven and growth-focused 
company. A company that is big on ideas and value, rather 
than simply big. This is as much a mentality shift as an 
operational shift – it’s about thinking differently and acting 
differently to get where we want to go.
10 x 20: a journey and a goal 
T o guide and encourage us, we have set the target of achieving 
$10 billion in product sales by 2020. Our 10 x 20 goal acts as 
our compass as we navigate excellent commercial execution 
across our business units, and strong innovation in our 
pipeline. This is the direction we have set for ourselves. 
10 x 20 is a new and galvanizing target for us, but in many 
ways it is very much in character – we are a high performance 
company setting another high bar to meet and exceed. It is 
also as much about the journey as the goal. I like both the 
ambition of 10 x 20 and the adventure of getting there.
Transforming lives 
Looking ahead, we will continue to build on our strong 
foundation and achievements. We have a clear growth 
strategy and a streamlined organization. We know where we 
are heading and, in great measure, how we are going to get 
there. But we also know that the year ahead will feature new 
opportunities and challenges that we are ready to make the 
most of so we continue to strive to strengthen and improve. 
Through all of our change and progress one thing above all 
remains constant – our patients. We’re on this journey for 
them and we are inspired to make a difference because we 
want to deliver innovative medicines that have the potential 
to transform their lives.
Flemming Ornskov, MD, MPH
Chief Executive Offi cer
$5.8bn
2014 record product sales
Sales in 68 countries
We’ve continued to expand our footprint
 
44%
Non GAAP EBITDA margin
1
$840m
Investment in Non GAAP R&D
1
 
1
 This is a Non GAAP ﬁ nancial measure. For reconciliation to US GAAP please 
see page 166.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
