 Chairman’s review
I am proud to be the Chairman of a 
company with a $28 billion
1
 market 
capitalization that focuses on developing 
and marketing innovative specialty 
medicines for patients.
If you look at the track record of Shire over 
the past 25 years you will see a theme of 
change as the Company has adapted to 
anticipate and meet patient needs and 
maximize growth opportunities. From 
acquiring new businesses, to expanding 
overseas, from developing new treatments, 
to reorganizing our Company – change 
has always been part of Shire, and 2013 
was a standout year in this respect. But at 
the core of all this change is an enduring 
commitment to meet the needs of patients 
with a range of specialized conditions. 
This has always been at Shire’s heart 
and we are determined to continue 
making the most of this strength for 
all our stakeholders.
Changing for the better
For us, 2013 was a year of further success. 
Our new Chief Executive Dr. Flemming 
Ornskov led a major reorganization, 
re-focusing our Company on our core 
strengths and on where we need to be 
to continue to grow and succeed in the 
future. Flemming has a rare combination of 
science, medical, business and commercial 
acumen and his impact on Shire has been 
2013 highlights
• We grew significantly, both 
organically and through a 
number of targeted acquisitions
• We strengthened our enduring 
focus on specialty medicines  
for patients
• We created a simpler, more 
streamlined and effective  
organization – One Shire
• We brought in new talent and 
developed existing talent
1 
Correct at February 24, 2014
WWW.SHIRE.COM 04 SHIRE PLC immediate and significant. We have reset 
Shire to create a simpler, more streamlined 
and effective organization – One Shire – 
entirely focused on developing and 
marketing innovative specialty medicines 
to meet significant unmet patient needs. 
Making big changes quickly is inevitably 
challenging, but the ones we have made 
through 2013 are making our Company 
stronger and better positioned to drive 
a new era of growth ahead as a result. 
We face the future fit and lean, more 
focused and flexible and we remain as 
motivated as ever to make the most of a 
world where medical science is getting 
more sophisticated, treatments are 
becoming more specialized and better-
informed patients are demanding access 
to new and better treatments. 
Continuing to specialize
Specializing has served us well over the 
years, particularly so in a pharmaceuticals 
industry which is not only more competitive 
but also more geared towards highly 
differentiated and effective treatments, and 
often very niche scientific developments. 
Going forward, Shire will continue to look 
for specialist areas where there is high 
unmet medical need.
Identifying and developing assets
One of our greatest strengths has been 
our ability to identify assets that address 
very specific patient needs, and to develop 
and bring these assets to market. These 
products and product candidates are 
typically either already approved and 
marketed or we assess them as having 
a high probability of being approved. 
Our skill is finding those assets to deliver 
growth and knowing how to maximize 
their commercial potential.
Over the years, we have established 
ourselves as an active dealmaker. Our 
most recent acquisition, of ViroPharma, 
Inc. (“ViroPharma”), is an excellent strategic 
fit and we are confident in our ability to 
maximize value for shareholders and, of 
course, for patients. The acquisition is 
expected to enhance Shire’s revenue and, 
earnings growth profile going forward. 
Expanding internationally
We continue to focus on expanding our 
international presence. We have developed 
a robust international strategy through the 
commercialization of our Rare Diseases 
treatments which are now sold in over  
50 countries in addition to the continued 
launch of ELVANSE in Europe. We have 
succeeded in scaling up steadily while 
building valuable understanding along 
the way of how to gain approval and 
market the same products in many 
different countries. We continue to 
expand, particularly into Asia. In 2013, 
we announced the establishment of a 
subsidiary office in Japan, the second 
largest pharmaceutical market in the 
world. We also established a presence 
in China and in South Korea.
Doing the right things
I am pleased with the composition of 
our Board. We have a good multi-national 
mix of skills and experience drawn from 
different areas including the worlds of 
pharmaceuticals, science, finance and 
banking. The atmosphere is open, 
participative and constructively challenging. 
Together, we focus on ensuring that Shire 
does the right things and does things right 
– strategically and responsibly. 
We welcomed Dominic Blakemore to 
the Board of Directors on January 1, 2014. 
Dominic is a non-executive Director and 
member of the Audit, Compliance & 
Risk Committee. He brings a wealth 
of experience and fresh perspective 
to the Board. 
Making the most of specialty
Looking ahead, we see even more 
growth potential in and around focusing 
on specialized unmet needs. With ever 
more finely-focused scientific developments 
and highly-targeted therapies for rare 
diseases, we aim to find new opportunities 
to lead the way in our core space. 
Specialized, high-value, targeted medicine 
is the future for Shire – we will continue to 
develop and market innovative treatments 
for distinct patient populations with 
specialized and often quite rare conditions 
around the world.
I’d like to thank all Shire employees for 
their immense efforts and unwavering 
commitment to meeting the needs of 
our patients and creating value for our 
shareholders during another 
successful year.
After more than ten years at Shire, at the 
Annual General Meeting on April 29, 2014, 
I will hand over the Chairmanship to Susan 
Kilsby. Having worked with Susan on the 
Board for a number of years I believe she is 
the ideal Chairman for the Company going 
forward; she has excellent commercial 
experience and will be a great new leader 
for the next era of Shire’s growth. I have 
thoroughly enjoyed my time with Shire as 
it has developed and grown and I am 
confident that its track record of success 
will continue.
Matthew Emmens
Chairman
WWW.SHIRE.COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 05
Strategic report
Governance Financial statements Other information
