 Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2010
www.silence-therapeutics.com
6
Chief Executive’s review
Philip Haworth PhD Chief	Executive	Officer
In 2010 we saw major 
advancements in the RNAi 
sector both at Silence and 
from our peers.
Overview
In	2010,	we	saw	major	advancements	in	the	
RNAi 	 sector 	 and 	 it 	 was 	 a 	 very 	 exciting 	 year 	 f o r	
Silence,	not	least	because	the	year	saw	the	
Group	successfully	complete	the	acquisition	
of 	 Intradigm. 	 Importantly , 	 Silence 	 made 	 some	
key 	 advancements 	 in 	 overcoming 	 the 	 challenge	
of	delivering	siRNA	molecules	safely	and	
effectively	to	a	variety	of	targets	and	tissue	
types 	 in 	 the 	 body 	 which 	 can 	 then 	 be 	 developed	
in 	 a 	 timely 	 and 	 cost -effective 	 manner . 	 Silence	
can	package	siRNA	molecules	in	multiple,	
distinct	delivery	systems	that	can	deliver	to	
more	target	cells	and	tissues	than	any	of	its	
competitors and can also generate multiple 
siRNA	products	rapidly	and	efficiently .	W e	
believe	that	these	advancements	support	
Silence’s 	 position 	 as 	 a 	 leader 	 in 	 the 	 discovery ,	
delivery 	 and 	 development 	 of 	 RNAi 	 therapeutics	
and	provide	benefits	not	only	to	Silence,	but	
to	the	sector	as	a	whole.
The 	 next 	 crucial 	 step 	 in 	 translating 	 the 	 science	
of 	 RNAi 	 into 	 meaningful 	 medicines 	 is 	 delivering	
positive 	 clinical 	 data 	 to 	 support 	 the 	 safety 	 and 	
efficacy 	 of 	 specific 	 RNAi 	 therapeutics 	 and 	 we 	
are	poised	to	begin	to	deliver	this	data	in	the	
coming	months.	
Before	looking	further	ahead,	I	would	like	
to	highlight	our	progress	in	2010	by	outlining	
the	key	events	that	created	value	for	our	
shareholders 	 and 	 contributed 	 to 	 our 	 leadership	
position	in	the	sector .	During	the	year ,	the	
company	made	progress	in	several	areas.	
These	included:
	 	 advancements	in	the	clinic	and	w ith	
our technologies;
	 	 the	establishment	and	expansion 	of	
valuable 	 pharmaceutical 	 partnerships; 	 and	
	 	 the	continued	strengthening	of	o ur	
intellectual	property	portfolio.
Operational
Progress with internal 
development programmes
W e	ended	2010	very	pleased	with	the	
progress	we	had	made	with	our	ongoing	
Phase	I	clinical	study	of	Atu027,	our	lead	
drug 	 candidate 	 for 	 the 	 treatment 	 of 	 advanced	
solid	tumours.	The	trial	remains	on	track	for	
completion	in	the	second	half	of	2011	and	
preliminary	findings	have	already	begun	to	
show	what	we	believe	to	be	encouraging	
human	data	that	is	consistent	with	the	
positive	preclinical	data	for	Atu027.	
In	November	2010,	we	published	a	 
peer -reviewed	paper	in	Clinical	Cancer	
Research	stating	that	Atu027	prevented	the	
spread 	 of 	 breast 	 cancer 	 to 	 the 	 lungs 	 in 	 animal	
models	of	cancer	metastases.	As	a	proven	
inhibitor	of	the	expression	of	PKN3,	a	gene	
that	is	believed	to	play	an	important	role	in	
the	progression	of	cancer	and	metastasis	
formation 	 in 	 particular , 	 Atu027 	 has 	 significant 	
promise	as	a	potential	cancer	treatment.
In 	 the 	 published 	 paper , 	 researchers 	 highlighted	
Atu027’s	inhibition	of	multiple	key	biological	
processes	that	trigger	the	formation	and	
spread	of	pulmonary	metastases	in	mice.	
W ith	metastasis	directly	linked	to	high	rates	
of	mortality	in	cancer	patients,	the	prevention	
of	metastasis	dissemination	and	formation	is	
a 	 critical 	 goal 	 of 	 cancer 	 treatment. 	 Importantly ,	
the 	 researchers 	 were 	 able 	 to 	 show 	 that 	 Atu027	
In summary
	 	 Excellent	progress	made	with	Atu027	
in	the	ongoing	Phase	I	trial	in	patients	
with	advanced	solid	tumours
	 	 Expanded	our	collaboration	w ith	
Dainippon	Sumitomo	and	extended	
our	collaboration	with	AstraZeneca
  Strengthened our intellectual property 
position	including	issuance	of	the	
Zamore	Design	Rules	patents	in	both	
the US and Europe
	 	 Secured	funding	well	into	201 2 Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2010
www.silence-therapeutics.com
7
Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
inhibited	the	formation	of	metastases	in	the	
lung.	This	is	crucial	as	breast	cancer	cells	
prefer 	 to 	 metastasise 	 through 	 the 	 bloodstream	
to	the	lung.	
These	published	findings	not	only	indicate	
the	potential	clinical	impact	of	Atu027,	but	
also	help	us	further	understand	the	manner	
in	which	this	compound	works	against	the	
formation	of	metastases.	
We are optimistic that these preclinical 
findings	will	be	confirmed	in	our	ongoing	
Phase	I	clinical	trial	with	Atu027.	As	of	
March	2011,	researchers	conducting	the	
Phase	I	study	had	administered	over	170	
doses	of	Atu027	to	23	patients	across	eight	
dose	ranges	with	dose	escalation	continuing.	
T o	date,	Atu027	has	appeared	to	be	safe	and	
generally	well	tolerated	with	no	dose-limiting	
toxicities	observed.	Additionally ,	initial	human	
pharmacokinetic	(PK)	data	appears	to	be	
similar	to	preclinical	PK	data.	T o	date	six	
patients	have	shown	stable	disease	after	
three	months	on	study .	W e	expect	to	present	
interim	data	from	this	study	at	the	American	
Society	of	Clinical	Oncology	Annual	Meeting	
in	June	2011	and	complete	the	trial	in	the	
second	half	of	2011.	Complete	data	is	
expected	to	be	available	in	early	2012.
As	we	continue	the	Phase	I	trial	of	Atu027,	
we	are	concurrently	working	on	preclinical	
development	of	other	promising	therapeutic	
candidates	including	Atu111,	Atu134	
and	Atu195:
	 	 Atu111 	is	the	most	novel	of	our	p reclinical	
programmes.	Based	on	our	proprietary	
D ACC	delivery	system,	we	are	developing	
Atu111 	 for 	 the 	 treatment 	 of 	 acute 	 lung 	 injury .	
Acute	lung	injury	is	often	fatal	and	usually	
caused 	 by 	 pneumonia. 	 Currently 	 there 	 is 	 no	
other	effective	treatment	in	this	US$8bn	
annual	market.	In	2011,	we	plan	to	explore	
opportunistic 	 licensing 	 options 	 for 	 the 	 clinical	
development	of	Atu111;	
	 	 Atu134 ,	like	Atu027,	is	based	on	 our	
proprietary	AtuPlex	delivery	system.	
Atu134	targets	CD -31,	which	is	known	
to	be	expressed	in	certain	solid	tumours,	
but	has	proved	difficult	to	target	with	
traditional	delivery	approaches.	W e	view	
Atu134	as	an	expansion	of	our	AtuPlex	
franchise 	 and 	 we 	 are 	 evaluating 	 the	
compound in preclinical testing as a 
potential 	 treatment 	 for 	 solid 	 tumours; 	 and
	 	 Atu195 	represents	the	third	prog ramme	
in 	 our 	 AtuPlex 	 franchise 	 which 	 we 	 are 	 also	
evaluating	as	a	potential	treatment	for	
solid	tumours.	
Progress with partners
Silence’s	technologies	were	further	validated	
in	2010	with	the	extension	and	expansion	of	
our 	 discovery 	 and 	 delivery 	 partnerships 	 as 	 well	
as 	 the 	 advancement 	 of 	 several 	 of 	 our 	 partnered	
development	programmes	through	the	clinic.	
In	March	2010,	we	expanded	our	siRNA	
delivery 	 collaboration 	 with 	 Dainippon 	 Sumitomo.	
Under	this	collaboration,	entered	into	in	
August	2009,	we	are	jointly	leveraging	
Silence’s	proprietary	siRNA	molecules	as	
well	as	delivery	and	targeting	technologies	
to	demonstrate	functional	delivery	of	RNAi	
therapeutics	to	specific	disease	targets	in	
the 	 body . 	 Under 	 the 	 terms 	 of 	 the 	 collaboration	
expansion	signed	in	2010,	we	will	examine	
the	efficacy	of	additional	disease	targets	
selected	by	Dainippon	Sumitomo	that	were	
not	originally	specified	under	the	initial	
collaboration	signed	in	2009.	W e	see	the	
expansion 	 of 	 this 	 agreement 	 as 	 further 	 validation	
of	the	potential	value	of	our	technologies.
In	addition	to	our	collaboration	with	
Dainippon 	 Sumitomo, 	 we 	 have 	 two 	 ongoing	
collaborations 	 with 	 AstraZeneca, 	 which	
were	initiated	in	June	2007	and	March	2008.	
Both	collaborations	were	extended	this	year .	
In	April	2010,	Silence	and	AstraZeneca	
announced	a	one-year	extension	of	our	
ongoing	siRNA	delivery	collaboration.	
The	purpose	of	this	collaboration,	which	
was	originally	established	in	March	2008,	
is	to	develop	a	range	of	novel	approaches	
for	the	delivery	of	siRNA	molecules.
In	July	2010,	we	announced	the	
continuation 	 of 	 our 	 ongoing 	 RNAi 	 research	
and 	 development 	 collaboration 	 with	
AstraZeneca. 	 The 	 collaboration 	 was 	 originally	
established	in	July	2007	for	the	purpose	of	
developing 	 and 	 optimising 	 five 	 novel 	 siRNA	
therapeutics addressing respiratory and 
oncology	indications.	 Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2010
www.silence-therapeutics.com
8
Chief Executive’s review continued
Operational continued
Progress with partners continued
The	extension	of	both	of	our	AstraZeneca	
collaborations	this	year	provides	further	
testimony 	 to 	 the 	 value 	 that 	 the 	 pharmaceutical	
industry	assigns	to	Silence	and	its	science.
In 	 August 	 2010, 	 our 	 partner , 	 Quark,	
announced 	 the 	 grant 	 of 	 an 	 option 	 to 	 Novartis	
to	obtain	an	exclusive	worldwide	licence	to	
develop	and	commercialise	QPI-1002,	which	
incorporates	Silence’s	AtuRNAi	technology .	
In 	 December 	 2010, 	 we 	 reached 	 an 	 agreement	
with	Quark	whereby	Silence	is	due	to	receive	
milestone	payments	of	up	to	US$1.5m	in	
relation to the option agreement signed 
between	Quark	and	Novartis	for	QPI-1002.	
Silence	received	US$0.63m	of	this	milestone	
in	early	2011.	F uture	milestone	payments	to	
Silence	relating	to	Quark’s	license	agreement	
with	Novartis	could	reach	US$80m.
Quark	is	developing	QPI-1002	for	the	
prevention	of	acute	kidney	injury	(AKI)	in	
patients	undergoing	major	cardiovascular	
surgery	and	for	the	prophylaxis	of	delayed	
graft	function	(DGF)	in	patients	receiving	
deceased	donor	kidney	transplants.	Phase	I	
studies 	 in 	 these 	 patient 	 populations 	 have 	 been	
successfully	completed.	In	September	2010,	
Quark	initiated	a	Phase	II	trial	of	QPI-1002	for	
the	prophylaxis	of	DGF	in	patients	receiving	
deceased	donor	kidney	transplants.	Quark	
plans	to	initiate	dosing	in	a	Phase	II	trial	in	
AKI	in	2011.
Additionally ,	in	March	2011,	Quark	
announced	Phase	II	results	of	PF -4523655	
from	the	184	patient	DEGAS	study	in	
diabetic	macular	oedema	(DME).	The	trial	
demonstrated	not	only	that	the	drug	was	
safe	and	well	tolerated	but	also	showed	
efficacy	benefits	over	laser	treatment	against	
which	PF -4523655	was	compared.	However ,	
advances 	 in 	 the 	 treatment 	 of 	 diabetic 	 macular	
oedema	means	Quark	now	plans	to	conduct	
a 	 further 	 Phase 	 IIb 	 trial 	 comparing 	 PF -4523655	
against 	 Lucentis, 	 which 	 was 	 recently 	 approved	
for	the	treatment	of	DME .	This	trial	is	due	to	
start	in	2011.	Data	from	the	DEGAS	trial	have	
not	only	confirmed	the	potential	utility	of	
RNAi	therapeutics	but,	far	more	importantly	
for	Silence,	have	reinforced	claims	about	
the	safety	of	Silence’s	AtuRNAi	technology .	
Results	from	a	further	Phase	II	study	
of	PF -4523655	in	age-related	macular	
degeneration	are	expected	during	the	
course	of	2011.
W e 	 are 	 extremely 	 pleased 	 with 	 the	
progress	we	have	made	with	our	existing	
collaborations	in	2010	from	both	business	
and	clinical	development	perspectives.	
These	collaborations,	some	of	which	focus	
on	mid	to	late-stage	clinical	development	
programmes, 	 demonstrate 	 the 	 advancements	
of	the	RNAi	sector	as	a	whole	and	ultimately	
bring	value	to	the	industry	as	well	as	our	
shareholders.	W e	are	pleased	to	be	playing	
a leadership role in the sector’s progress and 
expect	this	momentum	to	continue	into	2011	
and	beyond.
Restructuring
F ollowing	the	Intradigm	acquisition,	
Silence	announced	in	April	2010	a	major	
restructuring	to	streamline	the	business.	
This	resulted	in	a	smaller ,	more	focused	
operation	headquartered	in	London	with	
research	&	development	activities	in	Berlin	
and 	 business 	 development 	 activities 	 in	
Redwood 	 City , 	 California. 	 Over 	 the 	 last 	 twelve	
months,	it	has	become	apparent	that,	for	an	
organisation 	 of 	 approximately 	 40 	 employees,	
t h e 	 g e o g r a p h i c a l 	 diversity 	 of 	 the 	 Group 	 creates	
considerable 	 operational 	 difficulties 	 as 	 well 	 as 	
increased 	 operating 	 costs. 	 Therefore, 	 the 	 Board	
plans 	 to 	 close 	 the 	 Redwood 	 City 	 office 	 as 	 soon 	
as	practicable.	In	order	to	enable	a	smooth	
and 	 orderly 	 transition, 	 I 	 have 	 agreed 	 t o 	 r e m a i n	
in	the	role	of	Chief	Executive	Officer	until	an	
appropriate	replacement	has	been	recruited.
Strength through intellectual property
W e	continue	to	view	intellectual	property	(IP)	
as	one	of	the	cornerstones	of	our	business	
and 	 our 	 sector . 	 In 	 2010, 	 we 	 executed 	 a 	 proactive	
strategy	to	continue	to	build	and	strengthen	
a	diverse	and	competitive	IP	portfolio	
that	provides	us	with	a	strong	proprietary	
position	in	the	RNAi	therapeutics	space	
and	a	meaningful	competitive	advantage	
with	respect	to	peer	companies.	
Valuable disease targets and sequences
In	2010	and	early	2011,	we	made	progress	
in	expanding	IP	around	valuable	disease	
targets	and	sequences	that	we	believe	
will	help	drive	the	expansion	of	our	
RNAi	therapeutics	platform.
We made excellent progress 
in our Phase I clinical trial 
of Atu027 as a treatment for 
advanced solid tumours. Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2010
www.silence-therapeutics.com
9
Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
During 	 2010 	 and 	 early 	 2011, 	 the 	 United 	 States	
P atent	and	T rademark	Office	(USPTO)	issued	
Silence 	 a 	 number 	 of 	 individual 	 patents 	 directed	
to 	 double-stranded 	 siRNA 	 sequences 	 against 	
validated	cancer	targets	including:
 
	 PKN-3,	a	high-value	therapeutic	target	in	
the 	 area 	 of 	 oncology . 	 Importantly , 	 the 	 patent	
claims	related	to	PKN-3	cover	siRNA	
molecules	for	treating	cancer;
	 	 vascular	endothelial	growth	facto r	
receptor	2	(VEGFR2).	VEGFR2	has	been	
demonstrated to play an important role in 
the	vasculogenic	and	angiogenic	activities	
that	contribute	to	the	development	and	
progression	of	tumours	associated	with	
a	broad	range	of	cancers.	The	VEGFR2	
patent	also	covered	methods	for	reducing	
tumour	growth;
	 	 vascular	endothelial	growth	facto r	
receptor	1	(VEGFR1),	which	has	been	
demonstrated	to	play	a	key	role	in	the	
underlying	causes	of	various	cancers	
including	abnormal	angiogenesis	and	
uncontrolled	cell	division.	Similar	to	
VEGFR2, 	 VEGFR1 	 also 	 is 	 implicated 	 in	
the	development	and	progression	of	
age-related	macular	degeneration	(AMD)	
and other serious ocular diseases;
	 	 epidermal	growth	factor	receptor 	related	
protein	(EGFR-RP),	which	has	also	been	
demonstrated	to	play	a	key	role	in	the	
underlying	causes	of	various	cancers	
including	abnormal	angiogenesis	and	
uncontrolled	cell	division;	and
	 	 vascular	endothelial	growth	facto r	(VEGF),	
which, 	 like 	 the 	 other 	 targets 	 above, 	 has 	 also	
been	demonstrated	to	play	an	important	
role	in	the	underlying	causes	of	various	
cancers	including	abnormal	angiogenesis	
and	uncontrolled	cell	division.
By	successfully	securing	IP	around	multiple	
high-value,	validated	cancer	targets,	Silence	
has 	 taken 	 a 	 critical 	 step 	 in 	 building 	 a 	 successful	
franchise 	 in 	 cancer -focused 	 RNAi 	 therapeutics.	
Zamore Design Rules
Silence	owns	exclusive	licences	to	three	
Zamore	patent	families	from	the	University	
of	Massachusetts	Medical	School	(UMass),	
where 	 Phillip 	 D . 	 Zamore, 	 PhD , 	 Howard 	 Hughes	
Medical	Institute	Investigator ,	the	Gretchen	
Stone	Cook	Chair	of	Biomedical	Sciences,	
and	Professor	of	Biochemistry	&	Molecular	
Pharmacology 	 at 	 University 	 of 	 Massachusetts	
Medical	School,	is	the	co-director	of	the	
RNA	Therapeutics	Institute.	
These	patent	families	disclose	various	
efficacy -enhancing	methods	and	structural	
elements	for	RNAi	therapeutics,	informally	
known 	 as 	 the 	 Zamore 	 Design 	 Rules 	 and 	 based	
on	Dr	Zamore’s	work	at	UMass.	There	is	
a	growing	consensus	within	the	industry	
regarding	the	important	role	of	optimised	
siRNA 	 structures 	 for 	 developing 	 more 	 potent	
next -generation 	 RNAi 	 therapeutics.	
W ith	exclusive	access	to	the	industry	leading	
technology in this area, Silence continues 
to	position	itself	as	the	partner	of	choice	for	
pharmaceutical	companies	with	interest	in	
the	RNAi	space.	In	2010,	the	USPTO	issued	
the	following	critical	patents	related	to	the	
valuable	Zamore	Design	Rules:
  a patent that generally claims methods 
of	enhancing	the	RNA	silencing	activity	
of	RNAi	agents	through	certain	structural	
modifications.	The	issued	claims	not	only	
cover	enhancing	the	efficacy	of	silencing	
gene	expression	using	siRNA	but	also	
include	specific	claims	directed	to	micro	
RNA	(miRNA),	pre-miRNA ,	and	short	
hairpin	RNA	(shRNA);
  a patent that generally claims methods 
of 	 producing 	 double 	 stranded 	 RNAi 	 agents 	
having 	 decreased 	 off -target 	 silencing 	 activity	
through	certain	structural	modifications.	
The 	 ability 	 to 	 minimise 	 the 	 off -target	
effects	of	RNAi	therapeutics	is	critical	for	
controlling	unwanted	cellular	activity	and/
or	potential	safety	concerns.	The	issued	
claims	not	only	cover	minimising	off -target	
gene	expression	silencing	using	siRNA	
but	also	include	specific	claims	directed	
to	miRNA ;	and
  a patent that generally claims methods 
of	enhancing	RNA	silencing	with	a	double	
stranded	RNAi	agent.	The	patent’s	RNA	
silencing	method	claims	include	coverage	
for	the	administering	of	a	pharmaceutical	
composition	containing	siRNA ,	miRNA ,	
pre-miRNA 	 or 	 shRNA 	 molecules. 	 Silence	
believes 	 the 	 proprietary 	 structural	
modification	techniques	covered	in	this	
patent	will	play	a	key	role	in	increasing	
the	potential	therapeutic	efficacy	
of	RNAi	therapeutics.	
During	2010,	the	USPTO	received	four	
anonymous	requests	for	re-examination	
of	the	US	issued	Zamore	Design	Rules	
patents.	The	Company	is	working	with	
UMass	and	its	counsel	in	responding	to	
these 	 validity 	 challenges. 	 The 	 patents 	 remain	
valid	during	the	re-examination	process.
During	2010,	the	European	P atent	Office	
(EPO)	also	granted	Silence	a	new	patent	
providing	broad	protection	on	novel	aspects	
of	the	Zamore	Design	Rules.	The	European	
patent	 covers	 various	 breakthrough	 structural	
modification,	methods	and	compositions.	
This	patent	is	currently	being	opposed	
by	Alnylam. Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2010
www.silence-therapeutics.com
10
Operational continued
Zamore Design Rules continued
W e 	 strongly 	 believe 	 that 	 the 	 Zamore	
technology	is	invaluable	for	the	development	
and	commercialisation	of	RNAi	therapeutics	
with	enhanced	efficacy .	As	we	move	toward	
the 	 translation 	 of 	 RNAi 	 candidates 	 into 
medicines, 	 we 	 expect 	 that 	 our 	 exclusive	
access 	 to 	 these 	 Design 	 Rules 	 will 	 trigger 	 an	
increased	interest	in	new	partnerships	from	
a	number	of	companies	working	in	this	area.
AtuRNAi
Subsequent	to	the	year	end,	we	also	
announced	the	issuance	of	another	US	
patent	covering	chemically	modified	
RNAi	molecules	with	defined	positional	
modifications 	 including 	 siRNA 	 molecules 	 that 	
are	blunt	ended,	as	well	as	molecules	with	
one	or	more	overhangs.	This	is	a	particularly	
important	piece	of	IP	as	it	broadens	our	
protection	of	these	RNAi	molecules	to	those	
with	a	chemically	modified	core	length	
between	17	and	29	nucleotides	including	
the	company’s	portfolio	of	25mer	siRNA	
sequences.	This	patented	siRNA	technology	
forms	the	foundation	for	our	proprietary	
AtuRNAi	technology ,	which	is	the	basis	of	
five	ongoing	clinical	trials	being	conducted	
by	Silence	and	our	partners.
W e	believe	that	Silence	will	continue	to	make	
significant	progress	in	these	efforts	and	we	
expect	additional	RNAi	patents	to	be	issued	
in	Japan,	the	US	and	Europe	during	2011.	
Our	comprehensive	IP	portfolio	enables	us	
to	make	groundbreaking	advancements	
with	our	development	programmes	and	
technologies, 	 moving 	 us 	 closer 	 to 	 producing 	
treatment 	 options 	 for 	 patients 	 in 	 need. 	 At 	 the	
same 	 time, 	 this 	 growing 	 patent 	 estate 	 has	
significant	value	to	others	in	the	RNAi	
therapeutics	space	and	provides	Silence	
with	a	key	asset	for	pursuing	collaborations	
and	licensing	deals.
Summary and outlook
2010 	 was 	 a 	 year 	 of 	 great 	 progress 	 for 	 Silence	
and 	 we 	 look 	 forward 	 to 	 continuing 	 to 	 build 	 upon	
the	momentum	in	2011.
As	we	have	previously	announced,	the	value	
of	our	programmes	and	technologies	caught	
the	attention	of	key	players	in	our	industry	
in	2010	and	we	received	a	number	of	
approaches to discuss potential strategic 
combinations.	The	management	team	and	
Board	members	carefully	evaluated	each	
opportunity .	After	completing	a	period	of	
comprehensive	review ,	we	deemed	that	
these	approaches,	while	well	intentioned,	
were	not	in	the	best	interest	of	shareholders	
at 	 this 	 time. 	 W e 	 continue 	 to 	 work 	 toward 	 building	
maximum	value	for	our	shareholders	and	will	
review	all	future	opportunities	on	that	basis.
As	we	look	to	the	balance	of	2011,	we	
anticipate	the	achievement	of	multiple	
milestones,	most	notably ,	the	reporting	of	
interim	data	from	our	Phase	I	clinical	trial	of	
Atu027	throughout	the	year	and	completion	
of	the	trial	in	the	second	half	of	the	year .	
In	addition	to	Atu027,	we	will	also	continue	
to	advance	our	portfolio	of	preclinical	internal	
programmes	with	the	goal	of	moving	these	
into	clinical	trials.	At	the	same	time,	we	look	
forward	to	the	continued	advancement	of	our	
partnered programmes, including the potential 
for	some	to	advance	into	pivotal	Phase	III	
studies.	Finally ,	we	expect	to	continue	our	
successful	IP	strategy	with	the	issuance	of	
new	patents	in	the	US,	Europe	and	Japan	
that	cover	a	range	of	key	RNAi	technologies.
2011	promises	to	be	a	year	rich	in	data	from	
RNAi	clinical	trials.	At	Silence,	we	believe	that	
this	data	will	serve	as	the	primary	vehicle	for	
continuing	to	build	investor	and	industry	
confidence	in	RNAi’s	potential	to	change	the	
future	of	medicine	and	bring	much	needed	
therapeutics	to	patients	that	currently	have	
no	treatment	options.	W e	believe	that	Silence	
will 	 be 	 at 	 the 	 forefront 	 of 	 this 	 progress, 	 leading	
the	way	for	a	new	generation	of	medicine.
I	would	like	to	express	my	thanks	to	the	
employees	of	Silence	Therapeutics	and	you,	
our	shareholders,	for	your	continued	support	
and	confidence	in	our	company .
Philip Haworth PhD
Chief Executive Officer
26 April 2011
2011 promises to be a year 
rich in data from RNAi 
clinical trials including our 
own Atu027 Phase I trial.
Chief Executive’s review continued
