 Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
02
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Jerry Randall 
Chairman
“RNAi therapeutics 
are succeeding.”
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.	Helped	by	key	long‑term	
supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	to	
restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 broad applicability: the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 specificity: 	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 simplicity: 	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	phase	I	study .	Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	
lower	doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.	A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .	This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumours	
directly .	The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	
that	combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent	
in	pancreatic	cancer .	Our	preclinical	work	on	this	
combination	has	demonstrated	a	reduction	in	total	
tumour	burden,	including	visible	metastatic	spread.	
W e	were	given	ethical	committee	approval	for	this	
phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	trial,	and	dosed	the	
first	patient	in	April	2013.
W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
03
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	programme,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	to	showcase	the	strength	
of	our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programmes	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Our	partner	Quark	Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	
to	make	progress	in	the	two	projects	covered	under	
our	licence	agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	
macular	oedema	(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	
Quark	and	Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	
function	post	kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	
agreement	between	Quark	and	Novartis).	The	results	of	
these	studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
income	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.	If	these	molecules	are	
commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	income	
in	the	form	of	royalties.	
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	and	
ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focused	on	
developing	the	assets	of	the	company .	At	the	same	time,	
we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	support	our	
progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Giese,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	February	2012	Thomas	Christely	resigned	as	
chief	executive	and	left	the	company .	In	August,	
T ony	Sedgwick,	chief	executive,	Max	Herrmann,	
chief	financial	officer	and	Annette	Clancy ,	 	
non‑executive	director ,	left	the	company .
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy	in	August	2012,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	
Director	in	October	2012,	and	I	remain	Chairman.	Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	
T im	has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streamlining	of	the	
finance	function.
Mike	Khan	became	a	non‑executive	director	in	
September	and	Chief	Medical	Officer	in	January	2013.
W e	also	welcome	Annie	Cheng	to	the	board	as	
Director	of	Corporate	Development.	She	has	14	years	
of	experience	in	the	healthcare	industry ,	in	equity	
research	and	consulting.	While	in	equity	research,	
she	covered	a	wide	range	of	European	and	US	
healthcare	product	stocks.	As	a	consultant,	Annie	
advised	a	number	of	biotechnology	companies	in	
corporate	development	and	communications	with	the	
investment	community .	
Capital raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7m	before	expenses	in	July ,	and	
£5.0m	before	expenses	in	November .	In	addition,	
as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19.0m,	before	
expenses,	was	raised	post	year	end.	These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	post	year	end	of	our	existing	key	shareholders	
and	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	twelve	months	by	the	
whole	team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	
Silence	is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	
product	company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	
modifications	of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.	 	
At	the	same	time,	the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	
continues	to	see	positive	developments,	which	in	our	
view ,	validates	our	strategic	direction.	
As	a	board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products	in	
the	future.	W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	
the	development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Chairman
28	May	2013
