 Chief Executive’s Review
“A shared vision”
One of the most important aspects of leadership is to
ensure that all of the group’s employees have and
share a positive vision for the business.  Our working
environment must therefore allow us to do the things
that will deliver that shared vision. At the senior
management’s first strategic planning conference,
since the management change, in November 2002,
we debated and agreed a new vision statement for the
group, which I am pleased to be able to share with you
so quickly …
Although succinct, I believe that this is a powerful and
ambitious vision that all of the group’s employees will
be proud to aspire to. Our long-term strategies going
forward will be geared to delivering this vision so that
we maintain and build on our No. 1 position in the UK
bed and furniture market.
Overview
The last six months have seen a change of leadership
of the group, which can be disruptive. I have been very
impressed by the commitment I see within our
businesses, and the enthusiasm many of our
employees have expressed for our future plans and the
challenges ahead. How well we manage and
communicate change will determine our success.
The management team has been strengthened in a
number of our businesses. This, coupled with a more
consensual style of decision-making, has been well
received within the organisation. This is particularly
important given the challenges of a more difficult
trading climate.
Total sales in the year declined by 8% to £277.3
million and operating profits before exceptional costs
have reduced to £5.6 million from £12.5 million. The
UK Bed Division, grew sales by 4% to £168.6 million
with profits declining by 1% to £15.5 million but in an
increasingly competitive market.  In addition, a
continuing decline in the Furniture Division saw sales
in the year reduce by 22% to £97.3 million and
operating losses before exceptional costs increase to
£9.9 million from £3.2 million.
UK Bed Division
Our commissioned market statistics from GfK indicate
that the retail market for beds increased by just 1% in
2002, but which is still lower than the 2000 level. The
market grew in volume by 7%, reflecting the negative
impact of falling average selling prices caused by
pressure from a very competitive market place and a
continuing trend towards lower cost bedsteads.
Source : GfK
There are a number of new product initiatives
underway to address this static market. Silentnight
Beds has launched “My First Bed” which won the best
bed design award at the January 2003 Furniture show
and is achieving its target for retailer floor model sets.
Sealy will be introducing a new addition to its product
range in the summer of 2003, building on its
outstanding reputation for high quality beds. Layezee
is investing more in marketing to increase its retailer
profile as part of a substantial new product launch in
August 2003. Rest Assured and Pocket Spring Bed
Company continue to enjoy an increasing market
share of the pocket beds sector on the back of a high
quality product range and excellent customer service.
Nino Allenza
Chief Executive
"Silentnight Group’s bed and
furniture brands will be the
most innovative and sought-
after in the UK market"
4 SILENTNIGHT HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003
Sept
1998
Sept
1999
Sept
2000
Sept
2001
Sept
2002
UK Bed Market Volume and Value
4,500
4,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
£1,400,000
£1,200,000
£1,000,000
£800,000
£600,000
£400,000
£200,000
£0
Market Value (£’000)
Market Volume (‘000)
Volume
Value ANNUAL REPORT 2003 SILENTNIGHT HOLDINGS PLC 5
Furniture Division
The branded furniture businesses, Cornwell Parker and
Ducal, have never been properly integrated into the
group. Since their acquisition in 2000 the true cost of
this strategy has been substantial; original gross
purchase price, including debt taken over, of £45
million, operating losses of £13.1 million and
substantial exceptional operating costs as we now try
to restructure the businesses.  Asset disposals, etc
have realised £23 million.  If we couple this with their
deteriorating market position and the drain on group
management time it has been an unhappy and
demanding episode for all concerned.
I am pleased to say that new management has been
installed within both businesses. They are working hard
to try to lift morale and steer our people through a new
strategy which is aimed at putting the brands on a
stronger footing from the beginning of 2004. The plans
involve a radical restructuring which includes changes
to the product range, improved customer service and
more efficient organisational structures. Competition
from low cost imports has intensified. We are
responding to this by adapting the business model to
incorporate, where appropriate, the retention of highly
skilled assembly and finishing capability whilst putting
in place a supply chain to exploit the opportunities that
exist in low cost countries. We will not compromise on
quality or design as these are essential ingredients for
the success of our brands. 
Hence, it is with great regret that we have had to
announce a high level of redundancies as a
consequence of this restructuring. As a Group, we take
any loss of jobs extremely seriously. We are providing
outplacement counselling and working hard to help our
people back into good employment as soon as
possible.
Silentnight Furniture, in Sunderland, has successfully
incorporated the transfer of our Keighley operation
which has helped to re-align capacity with lower
demand and reduce our operational gearing. The
business however continues to suffer a reduction in
sales and operating performance.  It is trying to rebuild
confidence within its workforce and improve quality
and has agreed a three year pay deal with the unions
which is linked to more flexible working. This is an
important move forward which will provide a valuable
platform to drive through its operational improvement
program on quality, costs and delivery.
Against this background, the Furniture Division’s sales
reduced by 22% to £97.3  million and losses
increased by £6.7 million to £9.9 million. This is
clearly an unsustainable position which is now being
tackled with a high level of urgency.  The aggregate
exceptional operating costs of turning these
businesses round are expected to be, over two years,
in the order of £29 million. 6 SILENTNIGHT HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 7 ANNUAL REPORT 2003 SILENTNIGHT HOLDINGS PLC
Chief Executive’s Review
Germany
The German market remains very weak, resulting in a
further fall of 12% in sales to £11.4 million with a
resultant reduction of £0.2 million in profits to a small
loss of £2,000. The business has a high exposure to
the low cost discounting sector, which makes it
vulnerable to continuing margin pressure. A new
marketing plan is being put in place to help reposition
the business to give it a broader customer base within
higher value added sectors.
Operational Excellence
A detailed review of operations was carried out in
October 2002. This has led to the launch of
Operational Excellence, a group-wide initiative to help
bring a substantial improvement at all of our sites and
introduce a culture of continuous improvement.
This initiative is being led by Peter Marchant, Group
Operations Director, and includes the implementation
of a scorecard of key performance indicators by which
all of the businesses are now measured.
At each site, the Operational Excellence programme
will consist of a different set of projects and initiatives,
depending on the current size and situation of that
company. It has, like any other major change, to be
directed, led and controlled to assure success.
Standard project management procedures establish
the principle of a steering group to approve, monitor
and close all the various initiatives supporting the
overall programme.
An extensive program of training for first line
management has begun, to ensure that those most
affected by the new ways of working are equipped with
the necessary skills to lead and manage their teams,
and the change process. The training will include
leadership skills, communication, project management
and problem-solving techniques, as well as an
introduction to the principles of lean manufacturing.
Prospects
The current market conditions continue to be
challenging. We have seen consumer demand for our
products tailing off in all channels during February,
March and April 2003. There is usually a seasonal
decline as the January sales come to an end, but
retailers are concerned that things seem worse than
usual this year. Continued uncertainty about the Gulf
situation, a declining stock market and a stalling
house market are all mentioned as contributory
factors. Weakening consumer demand, coupled with
pressure from key customers for improved trading
terms and rising raw material prices, mean that UK
bed and furniture manufacturers are currently facing
an extremely difficult trading climate.
This trading background places even more importance
on the initiatives underway on new product
introductions, the repositioning and re-launch of our
furniture businesses and the improvement in our
operational processes. These will undoubtedly bring
improved performance in the medium term. 
Nino Allenza
Chief Executive
