 Chairman’s Statement
Since I only assumed the role of Chairman of
Silentnight Holdings Plc in January, the final month of
our financial year, this statement is necessarily brief as
regards the past and is more concerned with the
policies and actions required to return the Group to
satisfactory profitability.
As can be seen from the financial statements on page
30 the year witnessed a further 22% fall in the turnover
of the Furniture Division comprised of the Cornwell
Parker and Ducal businesses acquired in 2000 and
Silentnight Furniture. This resulted in precipitously
increased losses before exceptional operating costs of
£9.9 million, more than 10% of turnover. The bedrock
of the Company, the Bed Division, comprised of
Silentnight Beds, Sealy and other Group brands, did
well to hold its profit on marginally increased turnover
in an increasingly competitive market as reduced
consumer expenditure took hold. Overall, operating
profit before exceptional operating costs fell to £5.6
million, more than 50% down on 2001/02.
To deal with this situation, new management under
Chief Executive Nino Allenza has carried out a full
strategic review of the business and has concluded a
fundamental restructure and re-basing of the Furniture
Division is essential if current losses are to be
stemmed.  The actions necessary include the closure
of the Ducal factories in Andover, the closure and
subsequent local relocation of Cornwell Parker’s
upholstery factory in Chipping Norton and the cabinet
making facility in Edmonton.  Other options including
full closure were considered but on balance it was
concluded that the retention of the brand values
exceeded the management effort and turnaround
costs.
Roger Pedder
Chairman
Also a closure of the Group’s Keighley factory was
achieved in July 2002 and its operations transferred to
the Silentnight Furniture site in Sunderland. As a result
of these and other restructuring and re-organisational
activities, exceptional operating costs of £16.1 million
have been set against trading profit to produce an
operating loss after exceptional operating costs of
£10.9 million and a pre-tax loss of £11.2 million. The
exceptional operating costs include £7.0 million fixed
asset impairment and re-organisation and redundancy
costs of £3.7 million in the Furniture Division. At the
half year £9.2 million of these exceptional operating
costs had been taken and another £1.0 million was
indicated to fall in the second half year.
It will obviously take time and considerable
management effort to implement such a radical
programme and there will be substantial disruption to
on-going operations in the medium term.  This will
cause further operating losses and exceptional
operating costs at a similar level before control is re-
established in the Furniture Division. Trading conditions
in the Bed Division also continue to be increasingly
difficult.
In August 2002, the Board received an indicative
approach from Famco Holdings Limited, the Company’s
2 SILENTNIGHT HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 ANNUAL REPORT 2003 SILENTNIGHT HOLDINGS PLC 3
majority shareholder.  It was withdrawn due to the scale
of problems which came to light in the Furniture
Division. Since this time there has been a decline in
profitability, notably with increased losses in the
Furniture Division and exceptional operating costs
which have been incurred in rationalisation and
restructuring it.
Keith Ackroyd and Bill Simpson, respectively Chairman
and Chief Executive, resigned from the Board in
September 2002 and were succeeded by Nino Allenza
and Michelle Scott in the same month as Chief
Executive and Director of People and Communications
and myself as Chairman in January 2003. Malcolm
Little also resigned from the Board in September 2002
as a non-executive Director. David Adam, presently
Finance Director, is going to become a non-executive
Director in August 2003 and will be replaced by a new
Finance Director.
Nino, as I have already indicated, has instituted a
thorough going review of the business embracing not
only the competitiveness of our production capacity but
also the quality, specification and appeal of our
products, the competence and organisation of our
management and the segmentation of our markets and
the direction of the marketing effort within them.  Such
initiatives take time to work through and significant
risks remain to the success of the turnaround plan.
In line with many other UK companies, the Company
pension scheme is showing a deficit under FRS 17
‘Retirement Benefits’ accounting to £27 million at 1
February 2003. This is further discussed in the
Financial Review on page 9.
In such circumstances as outlined here the Board has
considered the issue of the dividend.  Given the drop
into loss at the post exceptional level and the serious
erosion of net worth, the Board would feel justified in
cancelling the final dividend. However, the Company
still has the benefit of a strong balance sheet including
net cash of £7.6 million and is also mindful of its
shareholders’ wish for dividend. It has therefore been
decided that for the current year it will pay a final
dividend of 6.0p per share, making the dividend for the
year 8.5p as against the 13.5p paid last year. However
on the basis of trading expectations for the new
financial year shareholders should not presume that a
dividend will be paid.
RA Pedder
Chairman
