 Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2010
www.silence-therapeutics.com
4
Chairman’s statement
RNAi therapeutics 
are succeeding.
Jerry Randall ACA Chairman
I	am	pleased	to	report	that	rapid	integration	
of	Silence	Therapeutics	plc	(Silence)	and	
Intradigm	Corporation	(Intradigm)	in	early	
2010	has	resulted	in	a	new	Group	with	a	
superior	scientific	platform,	robust	intellectual	
property protection and a strengthened 
management	team.	During	the	year ,	Silence,	
along	with	its	peers	and	collaborators,	made	
significant	progress	in	driving	advancements	
in	the	RNAi	sector .	W e	observed	important	
achievements	with	RNAi-based	compounds	
continuing	to	move	from	preclinical	studies	
into	development	and	through	clinical	trials.	
One 	 of 	 these 	 compounds 	 is 	 Silence’s 	 Atu027,	
which 	 has 	 produced 	 very 	 promising 	 preclinical	
data 	 in 	 the 	 area 	 of 	 cancer 	 – 	 findings 	 that 	 have 	
since	been	validated	with	encouraging	initial	
results 	 from 	 our 	 ongoing 	 Phase 	 I 	 clinical 	 trial. 	
Silence	also	published	and	presented	an	
extensive	amount	of	RNAi	data,	including	
data	on	Atu027	that	has	positioned	this	
compound	as	one	of	the	most	interesting	
and	potentially	promising	RNAi	therapeutics	
in 	 clinical 	 development. 	 Specifically 	 at 	 Silence, 	
our	technology	was	further	validated	by	the	
development,	expansion	and	extension	of	
our	agreements	with	major	pharmaceutical	
companies	including	AstraZeneca	plc	
(AstraZeneca), 	 Dainippon 	 Sumitomo 	 Co. 	 Ltd	
(Dainippon	Sumitomo)	and	Quark	
Pharmaceuticals	Inc.	(Quark)/Novartis	AG	
(Novartis).	Given	our	progress	in	the	clinic	
and	with	our	partners,	we	believe	Silence’s	
science and technology has the potential 
to play a leading role in the ultimate 
commercialisation 	 of 	 RNAi 	 into 	 next -generation	
therapeutics	for	patients	worldwide.	
The	strides	made	in	RNAi	are	in	line	with,	
or	even	superior	to,	progress	made	with	
other	new	technologies	and	therapeutics	
in	the	past,	including	the	path	travelled	by	
monoclonal	antibodies	from	concept	to	
clinic	to	market.	Silence	has	made	significant	
advances	in	addressing	the	issue	of	siRNA	
delivery	that	not	long	ago	appeared	to	be	
an	insurmountable	challenge	for	our	sector .	
W e	have	laid	the	groundwork	for	developing	
RNAi	therapeutics	by	completing	extensive	
preclinical	research	with	a	broad	range	of	
technologies	and	approaches.	W e,	with	our	
partners, 	 have 	 administered 	 RNAi 	 therapeutics	
to	hundreds	of	patients,	over	300	of	which	
have	been	dosed	with	molecules	containing	
Silence’s	proprietary	AtuRNAi	technology .	
As 	 of 	 today , 	 there 	 are 	 around 	 12 	 clinical 	 trials 	
of	RNAi	therapeutics	underway	worldwide,	
almost	half	which	are	based	on	Silence’s	
fundamental	RNAi	technology .	The	data	that	
is 	 now 	 emerging 	 is 	 a 	 testament 	 to 	 how 	 quickly	
the 	 RNAi 	 field 	has 	 advanced 	 relative 	 to 	 timelines	
that	are	typical	in	the	life	science	industry .	
The	key	advances	made	more	broadly	
in	the	RNAi	sector	in	2010	were	in	evidence	
at	Silence.	During	the	year	we	continued	to	
develop 	 and 	 advance 	 what 	 we 	 believe 	 to 	 be	
one	of	the	industry’s	most	comprehensive	
RNAi	therapeutic	platforms,	comprised	of:
	 	 proprietary	delivery	technologies;
	 	 potent	siRNA	s equences;	and
	 	 innovative	siRNA	structural	featu res.
In summary
	 	 Achieved	rapid	integration	of	
Intradigm	Corporation	following	
its	acquisition	in	January	2010
	 	 Secured	funding	for	the	busin ess	
through	to	2012
	 	 Advanced	Silence	Therapeutics	
as 	 one 	 of 	 the 	 leaders 	 in	
RNAi	therapeutics
	 	 Made	strong	 progress	on	mu ltiple	
fronts	including	clinical	development,	
intellectual property and ongoing 
pharmaceutical partnerships
Jerry Randall ACA	Chairman Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2010
www.silence-therapeutics.com
5
Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
2011 goals...
1.	 	 Complete	Phase	I	clinical	tria l	
of	Atu027
2.	 	 Present	interim	Phase	I	data	
on	Atu027
3.	 	 Advance	preclinical	programm es	
for	Atu134	and	Atu111
4.	 	 Complete	new 	corporate	allia nce
As	we	have	previously	stated,	these	are	the	
three 	 areas 	 we 	 believe 	 to 	 be 	 critical 	 for 	 building,	
protecting	and	commercialising	the	safest	
and	most	effective	RNAi	therapeutics.	T o	this	
end,	we	further	advanced	our	lead	product	
candidate, 	 Atu027, 	 through 	 its 	 Phase 	 I 	 clinical 	
trial	and,	thus	far ,	have	seen	what	we	believe	
to 	 be 	 extremely 	 encouraging 	 results, 	 including	
preliminary 	 evidence 	 of 	 remarkable 	 shrinkage	
of	target	and	non-target	lesions.	W e	also	
widely	and	actively	expanded	our	intellectual	
portfolio	estate	with	the	issuance	of	several	
key 	 patents 	 covering 	 all 	 three 	 key 	 areas 	 for 	 the	
development 	 of 	 RNAi 	 therapeutics. 	 T h i s 	 g l o b a l ,	
diverse 	 and 	 competitive 	 intellectual 	 property	
estate	further	positions	us	as	the	partner	of	
choice 	 for 	 other 	 companies 	 looking 	 to 	 develop	
RNAi	therapeutics	and	enables	us	to	further	
drive 	 therapeutic 	 advancements 	 both 	 internally	
and	with	collaborators	in	2011	and	beyond.
Shortly	after	the	merger	of	Silence	and	
Intradigm,	Dr	Phil	Haworth	assumed	the	role	
of	Chief	Executive	Officer ,	I	was	appointed	
Chairman	and	Max	Herrmann	was	appointed	
Chief 	 Financial 	 Officer 	 and 	 Company 	 Secretary 	
of	the	enlarged	Group.	On	behalf	of	the	
Board,	I	would	like	to	thank	Iain	Ross	and	
Melvyn	Davies,	who	stood	down	during	the	
period, 	 for 	 their 	 contributions 	 to 	 the 	 Company .
None	of	the	advancements	I	have	outlined	
would 	 have 	 been 	 possible 	 without 	 the 	 support	
of	our	shareholders	and	we	are	committed	to	
continuing	to	build	value	through	delivering	
meaningful	progress	in	the	future.
Thank	you	for	your	continued	support	
of	Silence	Therapeutics.
Jerry Randall ACA
Chairman
26 April 2011
During 2010, Silence 
made significant progress 
on multiple fronts driving 
advancements in the 
RNAi sector.
