 Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 201 1 Business Review · 03
Chairman’s statement
“ Our strong portfolio of intellectual property and delivery technologies 
makes us a partner of choice for companies active in RNA therapeutics.”
Silence Therapeutics is a leading RNAi 
therapeutics product and technology 
platform company with proprietary 
delivery systems. We have created two 
powerful platforms and a strong pipeline 
to exploit our impressive technological 
know‑how and IP.
Despite the difficult economic times and capital market 
turmoil, with your support, in 2011 we were able to announce 
positive progress in our internal clinical programme, refinance 
and streamline the business, as well as sign further collaborative 
agreements covering our RNAi delivery technologies. 
We believe that our achievements throughout the year 
validate the Board’s decision to focus on building an 
independent and high value RNAi therapeutics company. 
Indeed, industry commentators believe that the field of 
oligonucleotide therapeutics, of which RNAi is a part, 
may be the third major drug development platform after 
small molecules and monoclonal antibodies. 
When we reported to you in our 2010 Annual Report, 
we predicted that 2011 would be a year rich in data from 
RNAi clinical trials, both from Silence Therapeutics and 
other companies in this therapeutic area. This has proved 
to be the case, with encouraging interim Phase I data from 
our lead product, Atu027 for metastatic cancer, which we 
were pleased to be able to present at the prestigious annual 
American Society of Clinical Oncology (‘ASCO’) meeting in 
June 2011. We believe it to be one of the most interesting and 
potentially promising RNAi therapeutics in clinical development. 
During the year, our partner, Quark Pharmaceuticals, also 
presented positive Phase II data with PF‑04523655, which 
incorporates our AtuRNAi technology, in the area of diabetic 
macular oedema. 
Silence Therapeutics’ RNAi therapeutic platform, comprising 
our delivery technologies, siRNA sequences and structural 
features, has been validated by nine partnerships (some of 
these via our licensee Quark Pharmaceuticals). In 2011 alone, 
we were pleased to add three new deals, including delivery 
deals with InteRNA Technologies, miRNA Therapeutics and 
a top ten pharmaceutical company. As a result, we now have 
links to four of the world’s leading pharmaceutical firms. 
Assuming these collaborations continue to proceed successfully, 
we believe that associated milestone payments represent 
a significant potential revenue stream to Silence Therapeutics 
in the coming years. 
Other achievements for Silence Therapeutics in 2011 included 
a fundraising, which has extended existing funding until the 
end of the third quarter of 2012, streamlining of the business, 
and a significant strengthening of the business development 
and management team. The latter two, we believe, represent 
an appropriate response to our developing pipeline, expanding 
portfolio of high‑quality delivery technologies, and re‑focused 
business approach. Assuming that our pipeline continues to 
progress, Silence will be seeking deals with partners to further 
its development. In addition, we believe that our strong portfolio 
of intellectual property and delivery technologies makes us 
a partner of choice for companies active in RNA therapeutics, 
and we will continue to build this important non‑dilutive 
source of income. As with many other approaches in the 
medical field, delivery of the active RNAi therapeutic is the 
rate‑limiting step and so we consider our suite of delivery 
technologies an important asset for us and our partners. 
The evolution of the Company since the beginning of 2011 has 
resulted in some personnel changes, with Dr Tony Sedgwick 
recently appointed Chief Executive Officer and Dr Georg 
Buchner joining as Vice‑President of Business Development. 
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Dr Phil Haworth, 
Dr David U’Prichard and Dr James Topper, all of whom stood 
down during or at the end of 2011, for their contributions to 
the Company as Chief Executive Officer and Non‑executive 
Directors respectively. David U’Prichard in particular has been 
with the business for almost eight years. Our thanks are also 
due to Thomas Christély who initially replaced Dr Phil Haworth 
and has recently left the Company to be succeeded by our 
new and commercially driven Chief Executive Officer, 
Dr Tony Sedgwick. Tony comes with a strong background 
in the commercial biotech environment, and has been 
successfully involved in developing biotech businesses 
and delivering value to shareholders. 
Jerry Randall ACA Chairman www.silence-therapeutics.com 04 · Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 201 1
Clinical data emphasises potential  
of RNAi therapeutics
With five of the estimated 13 clinical programmes ongoing 
worldwide using Silence Therapeutics’ AtuRNAi technology, 
and having treated in excess of 300 patients, we believe we 
have the industry’s broadest siRNA clinical pipeline. Looking 
elsewhere in the RNAi sector in 2011, we were pleased to 
observe encouraging clinical data from other players, which 
underlines the potential of the approach. Many of those 
working in this field share our view that the range of clinical 
results announced in 2011 represent a significant derisking 
of RNAi technology and we look forward to further clinical 
advances in 2012. 
The significant progress that Silence Therapeutics made 
in 2011 was achieved against a backdrop of a restructuring 
and consolidating pharmaceutical sector, restricted access 
to capital for small and innovative companies and turbulent, 
risk‑averse financial markets. That we were able to raise 
£5.51m (net of costs) under these conditions is a testament 
to the potential of the Company and the confidence placed 
in us by our shareholders, and many thanks are due to you 
for this. I am as disappointed as you are that our increasing 
maturity is not yet reflected in Silence Therapeutics’ share 
price and believe that our new focused approach, coupled 
with the newsflow and advances we expect to announce 
in 2012, will go a considerable way to building shareholder 
value and enhancing our share price. 
At Silence Therapeutics, the Directors consider our key 
performance indicators (‘KPIs’) an important way for us and 
you to monitor our progress. Our financial and non‑financial 
KPIs are listed below, and are, we believe, appropriate for 
a biotechnology company at this stage of development. 
KPIs at Silence Therapeutics
Financial KPIs
 I Cash position in relation to cash flows
 I Expenditure on research and development activities
Non‑financial KPIs
 I Number of drugs in development by stage of development
 I Number of pharmaceutical collaborations 
 I Development milestones reached
 I Signature of research collaborations and licences to bring 
in both development partners and revenue
The performance of Silence Therapeutics versus these KPIs 
is discussed in my report as well as in the Chief Executive’s 
statement on pages 6 to 12 and the Financial Review on 
page 13. Since there are a number of potential risks and 
uncertainties that could have a material impact on the Group’s 
performance – including clinical and regulatory risk, competition 
and intellectual property risk, and economic, financial and 
counterparty risk – I should also draw your attention to the 
Directors’ statement on these matters on pages 14 to 21. 
Silence Therapeutics is proud of its RNAi therapeutic platform, 
comprising proprietary delivery technologies, potent siRNA 
sequences and innovative RNAi structural features. We believe 
that our progress in 2011 shows the synergistic value of these 
assets and we look forward to updating you on further advances 
in the clinic and other areas delivered via our new and focused 
management team throughout 2012. 
Thank you for your continued support of Silence Therapeutics.
Jerry Randall ACA
Chairman 
27 March 2012
Chairman’s statement continued
“ We believe we have the industry’s broadest siRNA clinical pipeline 
and we look forward to further clinical advances in 2012.”
