 Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
04
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“We will use our technology to 
change patient lives for the 
better, and in the process, 
build shareholder value.”
Ali Mortazavi
Chief	Executive
New	technologies	enable	the	development	of	new	
medicines	that	change	lives	dramatically	for	the	better .	
For	example,	five‑year	relative	survival	rate	for	cancer	
increased	to	69%	in	1999	to	2005,	from	50%	in	1975	to	
1977.	By	supporting	companies	that	made	a	difference	
for	patients,	investors	in	these	companies	were	
rewarded.	In	2012,	European	small‑cap	biotechnology	
stocks	were	up	over	40%,	according	to	Ernst	&	Y oung’ s	
2013	Biotechnology	Industry	Report.
Silence	Therapeutics,	as	one	of	the	few	companies	with	
intellectual	property	and	know‑how	in	the	emerging	
oligonucleotide	therapeutics	platform,	now	has	an	
opportunity	to	become	a	fully	fledged	biotechnology	
company	in	the	tradition	of	the	previous	waves	of	
biotechnology	pioneers.	
Our	team	of	scientists,	who	have	been	with	us	since	the	
inception	of	the	company ,	created	a	powerful	platform	
technology	from	which	new	drugs	can	be	developed	to	
treat	previously	unaddressable	conditions.	
The	drug	development	industry	remains	an	attractive	
investment	opportunity	due	to	demographic	trends	
although	this	path	is	not	without	challenges.	W e	
believe	our	success	is	contingent	on	developing	drugs	
that	truly	make	a	difference	to	patients.	W e	are	in	the	
process	of	acquiring	the	capabilities	to	enable	us	to	
make	appropriate	clinical	development	decisions	for	the	
benefit	of	patients	and	shareholders.
In	the	next	year ,	we	look	forward	to	sharing	with	you	
a	research	and	development	plan	and	timelines	for	
delivering	key	development	milestones.	
Leveraging the strengths of our technology
The	core	technology	of	Silence	Therapeutics	enables	the	
development	of	novel	molecular	entities	that	“silence”	or	
inactivate	genes.	It	is	inspired	by	a	naturally	occurring	
process	called	RNA	interference	(RNAi).	This	process	is	
triggered	by	a	short,	double	stranded	oligonucleotide	
known	as	short	interfering	RNA	(siRNA)	in	cells	where	
the	target	gene	is	expressed	and	when	such	expression	
is	undesirable.	
Our	scientists	improved	on	nature	by	chemically	
modifying	a	natural	siRNA,	to	create	a	proprietary	
form	of	siRNA	molecule	known	as	AtuRNAi.	These	
molecules	have	been	demonstrated	to	be	more	stable	
and	less	immunostimulatory	than	unmodified	siRNAs,	
making	AtuRNAi	desirable	as	drugs	molecules.	
Additionally ,	our	scientists	developed	technology	
that	preferentially	delivers	AtuRNAi	to	the	vascular	
endothelium	(AtuPLEX),	the	lung	endothelium	(DACC)	
and	the	liver	(DBTC).
In	contrast	to	conventional	drugs	that	can	access	a	
limited	proportion	of	disease	targets,	we	believe	our	
technology	can	be	used	to	address	the	overexpression	of	
any	gene.	As	such,	our	technology	may	be	able	to	help	
more	patients	and	treat	more	diseases.	
Given	the	properties	of	our	technology ,	we	believe	it	
would	be	most	powerful	when	used	to	address	diseases	
with	established	and	well‑studied	links	between	
the	expression	of	a	specific	gene	(or	the	production	
of	a	specific	protein)	and	a	disease.	More	of	these	
opportunities	should	come	to	light	as	gene	sequencing	
technology	advances.	
I am pleased to be appointed Chief Executive of Silence Therapeutics, 
transitioning from my prior role at the company as Director of Corporate 
Strategy. With the completion of the Atu027 phase I study and a 
strengthened cash position, Silence Therapeutics is now ready to embark 
on the next step in a road well‑trodden by the pioneers of the biotechnology 
industry such as Amgen and Biogen.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
05
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
Pursuing new clinical development projects
Our	technology	provides	many	clinical	development	
opportunities.	W e	have	a	responsibility	to	patients	
and	shareholders	to	pursue	projects	with	the	highest	
chance	of	success.	T o	do	so,	we	will	adhere	to	the	
following	simple	principles:
•	 decision enabling experiments we 	 will 	 do 	 studies 	 that	
enable 	 go/no 	 go 	 decisions, 	 where 	 the 	 benchmark 	 for	
“go” 	 is 	 prospectively 	 defined, 	 and 	 we 	 will 	 stop 	 projects 	
that 	 are 	 not 	 worth 	 doing 	 as 	 soon 	 as 	 practicable
•	 efficacy signals early we 	 will 	 target 	 conditions	
where 	 it 	 is 	 possible 	 to 	 know 	 early 	 whether 	 the 	 drug	
works. 	 For 	 example, 	 where 	 clinical 	 outcome 	 would 	 be	
obvious 	 in 	 small 	 uncontrolled 	 studies, 	 or 	 where 	 there	
are 	 well‑accepted 	 surrogate 	 endpoints 	 for 	 clinical	
outcome. 	 Importantly , 	 early 	 efficacy 	 signals 	 may 	
enable 	 accelerated 	 path 	 to 	 approval 	 for 	 the 	 benefit 	 of 	
patients 	 and 	 value 	 creation 	 for 	 shareholders
•	 found patient population we	are	better	able	to	
help	patients	if	they	are	already	known	to	treating	
physicians	because	their	diseases	are	obvious	
enough	that	they	seek	medical	help,	or	their	diseases	
are	screened	routinely
•	 in target tissues we	will	pursue	diseases	where	the	
undesirable	gene	expression	and	protein	production	
are	in	the	vascular	endothelium,	lung	endothelium,	
liver ,	or	wherever	else	our	technology	can	take	us	in	
the	future
•	 necessary before	we	embark	on	any	clinical	
development	project,	we	will	establish	the	necessary	
efficacy	and	safety	parameters	for	a	new	drug	that	
will	be	meaningful	to	patients	in	light	of	existing	
options	and	more	advanced	potential	therapies.	
The	target	profile	will	inform	our	study	design,	
so	we	can	know	as	early	as	possible	whether	our	
drug	can	make	a	difference	to	patients.	Clear	
characterisation	of	unmet	medical	needs	may	also	
allow	us	to	take	advantage	of	certain	accelerated	
regulatory	pathways
•	 elucidated biology we	plan	to	pursue	disease	where	
the	link	between	the	undesirable	gene	expression	
and	disease	is	already	well‑studied,	preferably	by	
multiple,	independent	groups
How Atu027 fits into our future portfolio
Currently , 	 we 	 have 	 one 	 clinical 	 stage 	 project, 	 Atu027, 	 an	
AtuRNAi 	 against 	 PKN3, 	 delivered 	 by 	 AtuPLEX, 	 to 	 the	
vascular 	 endothelium. 	 By 	 acting 	 against 	 PKN3 	 in 	 the	
vascular 	 endothelium, 	 it 	 is 	 hypothesised 	 that 	 metastatic	
spread 	 would 	 decrease, 	 thereby 	 slowing 	 progression 	 and	
improving 	 survival 	 rates 	 of 	 cancer 	 patients.
W e	have	demonstrated	the	safety	of	Atu027	in	
34	patients.	In	2012,	we	completed	a	phase	I,	
monotherapy ,	one‑month	safety	study	of	Atu027	in	
a	variety	of	solid	tumour	patients.	
The	phase	I	study	showed	that	none	of	the	34	patients	
experienced	a	serious	adverse	event	directly	associated	
with	Atu027.	
The	next	logical	step	in	the	development	of	Atu027	is	to	
combine	its	presumed	ability	to	stop	cancer	spread	with	
chemotherapy	agents	that	kill	tumours,	to	better	clarify	
Atu027’ s	efficacy	profile	when	used	as	intended.	In	
April	2013,	we	initiated	dosing	of	cancer	patients	with	
the	chemotherapy	agent	gemcitabine	in	combination	
with	Atu027.	As	such	further	studies	are	being	
planned,	we	will	pay	special	attention	to	cancers	where	
patients	experience	spread	of	disease	or	death	within	
a	relatively	short	period	of	time,	even	on	best	current	
available	therapy .	
If	successful,	Atu027	could	help	cancer	patients	at	
risk	from	developing	metastasis,	thereby	slowing	
progression	of	disease	and	improve	survival.	
Demonstration	of	these	effects	will	ultimately	require	
sizable	randomised	controlled	trials	using	progression	
free	survival	or	overall	survival	as	endpoints.	At	this	
time,	the	early	indicators	of	efficacy	that	are	normally	
available	to	drugs	with	tumour	killing	properties	(e.g.	
tumour	regression)	are	not	available	to	Atu027	given	
its	mechanism	of	action.	Therefore,	we	consider	Atu027	
to	be	a	high‑risk	but	high‑reward	opportunity .
W e	will	therefore	be	looking	to	balance	the	
pipeline	appropriately .
Enabling infrastructure
W ith	its	solid	scientific	foundation,	Silence	is	well	
positioned	to	develop	impactful	new	treatments	for	
patients	that	would	also	generate	shareholder	value.	
The	next	stage	of	our	development	will	require	
further	expertise.
W e	have	identified	two	near ‑term	needs	for	
the	company:
•	 run	clinical	trials	in	a	cost‑efficient	way	to	reach	
value	inflection	points	early
•	 identify	diseases	where	there	is	a	significant	medical	
need,	and	the	required	target	profile	for	new	drugs
W e	have	taken	steps	to	recruit	the	appropriate	
personnel	to	address	the	aforementioned	needs.	
Conclusion
The	next	year	will	be	critical	for	Silence	Therapeutics	
in	its	transition	to	a	drug	development	company ,	
including	an	update	on	our	clinical	development	plan.	
I	look	forward	to	providing	you	with	further	updates	
throughout	the	year .	
Ali Mortazavi
Chief	Executive	
28	May	2013
