 06
Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2009
Chief Executive’s review
Overview
In 2009, a number of pivotal events provided 
the foundation and framework that will propel 
Silence forward in 2010 and beyond. During 
the year, the Company made progress on all 
fronts – in the clinic, with partnerships, financially 
and in securing critical intellectual property (IP). 
These successes opened the door for further 
opportunity, culminating in the merger with 
Intradigm on 5 January 2010. We believe 
post‑merger Silence is a new leader in RNAi 
therapeutic development with a unique potential 
to develop delivery solutions that can be tailored 
to address various therapeutic requirements. 
With our expanded technologies and assets, 
we are aggressively executing a plan designed 
to further strengthen the business and create 
increasing value for our shareholders. 
Before looking ahead, I’d like to address each 
of the critical 2009 events that contributed to 
our new Company and our future opportunities. 
Operational
Progress in the clinic
In 2009, we made great strides in the clinic with two 
of our programmes in human trials. In January 2009, 
our licensing partner, Quark Pharmaceuticals, 
commenced a Phase I/II clinical trial with QPI‑1002, 
its RNAi drug targeting the p53 gene for the 
prevention of delayed graft function (DGF) following 
kidney transplants. QPI‑1002 incorporates Silence’s 
AtuRNAi technology and we believe this independent 
advancement of our technology represents 
a significant validation of Silence’s science and drug 
candidates. While this programme is managed 
by Quark, we believe the trial is progressing 
as planned and we look forward to the results.
In June 2009, Silence initiated a Phase I study 
of Atu027, our lead drug candidate for the treatment 
of advanced solid tumours. The trial, being 
conducted at the clinical study centre of the 
Cancer Hospital SanaFontis in Freiburg, Germany, 
is an open‑label, dose‑finding study to address 
the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics 
of Atu027. This trial has eleven dosing regimens. 
We are advancing through the dosing protocol 
as planned and we remain on target to have results 
in the second half of 2011. 
Atu027 specifically targets PKN3, a molecule 
involved in cancer growth and metastasis formation. 
Atu027 is Silence’s most advanced clinical 
candidate for a systemically delivered siRNA 
using the Company’s proprietary AtuPLEX 
delivery technology. It is our belief that Atu027 
may ultimately be a valuable treatment option 
for cancer patients that do not respond to 
standard therapy.
We are executing a plan designed 
to the business 
and create for 
our shareholders. 07
Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2009
Review
of the year
Corporate
governance
Financial
statements
Silence is also working to develop three pre‑clinical 
programmes. Atu134 is being evaluated for potential 
treatment of acute lung injury and Atu111 and 
Atu150 are both being evaluated for the potential 
treatment of solid tumours.
Expanding our collaborations
In August 2009, Silence expanded its partnerships 
with the addition of a new collaboration with 
Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd of Japan. 
The purpose of the collaboration is to demonstrate 
the functional delivery of Silence’s proprietary 
siRNA molecules to specific targets. The ongoing 
collaboration is currently evaluating Silence’s 
proprietary AtuRNAi molecule that is chemically 
modified to improve safety, reduce manufacturing 
costs and increase stability. The collaboration 
is also making use of Silence’s AtuPLEX delivery 
technology, which has been shown to improve 
functional intracellular uptake.
Though this collaboration is currently only 
seven months old, we were pleased to announce 
in March 2010 that Dainippon Sumitomo has 
elected to expand this collaboration by examining 
delivery to additional disease targets that were not 
originally specified under the initial collaboration. 
As a company focused on addressing the challenges 
of RNAi delivery, we are very pleased that Dainippon 
Sumitomo has elected to expand our collaboration 
so quickly. We believe this is a strong testimony 
to the potential of our delivery technology as well 
as the value we bring our partners. 
In addition to our partnership with Dainippon 
Sumitomo, we currently have two ongoing 
collaborations with AstraZeneca, which were initiated 
in June 2007 and March 2008. The June 2007 
collaboration was established for the purpose 
of developing novel siRNA therapeutics against 
specific targets exclusive to AstraZeneca, and 
the March 2008 collaboration seeks to develop 
a range of novel approaches for the delivery of 
siRNA molecules. These collaborations continue 
to advance as planned and we, together with 
our partners, are very pleased with the progress 
to date. We look forward to providing updates 
on these collaborations in the near future.
Building financial strength
In January 2009, Silence raised £2.65m net 
of expenses through the issue of 15m shares 
at a price of 18p per share. Concurrent with 
our merger with Intradigm in January 2010, 
we raised an additional £15m (gross) at a price 
of 23p per share. Such funds are intended 
to support the Company’s ongoing development 
efforts and provide a position of strength as 
we work to pursue additional partnerships 
and development deals.
Beyond the funding itself, it is important to note 
who invested in each of these rounds. We are 
fortunate to have the support of several pre‑eminent 
institutions in the UK, as well as several leading 
US institutions. We are also very fortunate to have 
the financial backing of a number of strategic 
pharmaceutical venture groups including Lilly 
Ventures, Roche Finance and Astellas Venture, 
who were investors in Intradigm.
Enhancing our intellectual property estate
The importance of intellectual property to success 
in the RNAi therapeutic field cannot be overstated. 
Yet, we argue that the true value of IP lies in 
the specific claims as opposed to the number 
of patents. During 2009 and continuing in 2010, 
both Silence and the former Intradigm secured 
a number of pivotal patents that are all now 
owned by post‑merger Silence. The following 
events contributed significantly to the strength 
of Silence’s IP estate:
  the European Patent Office (EPO) granted 
a patent on protein kinase N3 (PKN3), the target 
gene for Silence’s lead compound Atu027;
  the Technical Board of Appeal of the European 
Patent Office revoked in its entirety European 
patent EP1 214 945, which is a fundamental 
competitor patent owned by Alnylam Europe AG; 
  the Opposition Division of the EPO upheld 
Silence’s core AtuRNAi patent EP 1 527 176 
(’176) in amended form. The amended form 
of patent ’176 covers Silence’s proprietary 
blunt‑ended siRNA molecules containing 
alternating 2’‑O‑Methyl modifications; and
“ In August 2009, 
Silence expanded 
its partnerships with 
the addition of a new 
collaboration with 
Dainippon Sumitomo 
Pharma Co., Ltd 
of Japan.” Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2009
08
Chief Executive’s review continued
Operational continued
Enhancing our intellectual property estate 
continued
  the United States Patent and Trademark 
Office (USPTO) issued a notice of allowance 
on a patent application directed to methods 
of treatment using PKN‑3, a high‑value 
therapeutic target in the area of oncology. 
The allowed subject matter is directed to, 
among other things, methods of treating 
cancer with siRNA or antisense molecules 
that target the PKN‑3 messenger RNA (mRNA). 
The claims cover the siRNA molecule in 
Silence’s lead clinical compound, Atu027, 
an RNAi therapeutic that targets PKN‑3 for 
the treatment of advanced solid tumours.
In addition to these events, Silence also now 
owns key intellectual property rights previously 
secured by Intradigm as follows:
  issued and pending patents on multiple 
high‑value siRNA sequences of varying 
structure;
  issued and pending patents directed to 
one of the industry’s most advanced siRNA 
chemical modification technologies optimised 
for improved stability, yield and safety; and
  three exclusive licences from the University 
of Massachusetts to the issued and pending 
patents associated with the Zamore “Design 
Rules” including methods for increased 
potency and reduced off‑target effects.
With these combined assets, we believe our patent 
estate today is one of the most useful, most 
functional portfolios in the RNAi field and we believe 
it will provide us with the opportunity to actively 
pursue all our areas of interest.
Financial
Silence successfully strengthened its financial 
position through the completion of two financings 
in 2009 and early 2010 that generated proceeds 
of approximately £17.7m (gross). This funding 
provided cash resources that will support the 
Company’s operations into the second quarter 
of 2011. This is without taking into account any 
milestone or other receipts that the Company 
believes it could receive in 2010.
Revenue
Revenue generated in the year declined to £1.72m 
in 2009 from £2.21m in 2008. The decrease 
in revenue was primarily attributable to receiving 
milestone income from previous deals in 2008 
which did not arise in 2009.
Administrative expenses
Administrative expenses during the year increased 
to £4.20m in 2009 from £3.29m in 2008. 
The increase in administrative expenses is 
primarily attributed to costs incurred in respect 
of the acquisition of Intradigm subsequent 
to the year end.
Research and development expenses
Research and development expenses during 
the year decreased to £5.07m in 2009 from 
£6.71m in 2008. The decrease in research 
and development expense is primarily attributed 
to the Group having incurred substantial 
pre‑clinical development costs in 2008 prior 
to the commencement of its clinical trials 
of Atu027 which commenced in 2009.
Interest
Interest income fell from £0.25m in 2008 to 
less than £0.1m in 2009 due to lower average 
balances on deposit and the marked fall 
in interest rates during 2008 and 2009.
 in the 
enablement of clinical development 
of RNAi therapeutic candidates.
“ Silence successfully 
strengthened its 
financial position 
through the 
completion of two 
financings in 2009 
and early 2010 that 
generated proceeds 
of approximately 
£17.7m (gross). ”  09
Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2009
Review
of the year
Corporate
governance
Financial
statements
Taxation
The taxation credit arises through the availability 
of UK R&D tax credits in respect of some of 
the Group’s research and development costs.
Liquidity, cash, cash equivalents and money 
market investments
The Group’s cash position at year‑end was £1.13m. 
A further £15.0m (gross) was raised shortly after 
the year‑end through an institutional placing that 
closed in January 2010. At the end of 2008, 
Silence had cash of £3.35m. 
The net cash outflow from operating activities was 
£4.65m against an operating loss of £7.55m 
primarily reflecting the impact of changes in 
other working capital of £1.6m and of non‑cash 
items such as depreciation, amortisation and 
share option charges of £1.0m.
Summary and outlook
I’d like to conclude by reviewing the rationale 
for the recent merger and the subsequent goals 
we aim to achieve.
In setting out to combine these two companies, 
our objective was to dramatically change the 
competitive landscape in the field of RNAi 
therapeutics. While other companies in the 
sector may claim leadership, this merger created 
one of the most sophisticated platforms in RNAi 
therapeutic development. As a result of this merger, 
Silence now holds a powerful and strategic position 
in the three areas we believe are critical to building, 
protecting and commercialising RNAi therapeutics: 
proprietary delivery technologies, potent siRNA 
sequences and innovative siRNA structural features.
This unique combination of technology has created 
an unparalleled technology platform that we believe 
will drive many of the most critical advances in 
the field. Perhaps most exciting about the merger 
is the powerful range of RNAi delivery technology 
solutions possessed by the new Company. The most 
significant hurdle to overcome in realisation of the 
vast potential of RNAi therapeutics is that of enabling 
safe and effective delivery of siRNA payloads. 
By combining the expertise of both Intradigm 
and Silence, we now have one of the industry’s 
most comprehensive and versatile delivery 
technology platforms, providing Silence with 
unmatched potential to develop delivery 
solutions that can be tailored to address 
various therapeutic requirements.
Beyond our technology platform, Silence is 
a clear leader in the enablement of clinical 
development of RNAi therapeutic candidates. 
At present, we believe that at least half of the 
siRNA programmes currently in clinical trials 
worldwide are based on Silence’s technology, 
representing the significant impact that our 
technology platform has within the sector. 
This impressive pipeline of products not only 
validates the strength of Silence’s technology, 
it also validates the team of researchers that has 
guided the development path. 
In summary, the rationale driving this merger 
was to combine the strength of two innovative 
entities to create a new leadership in RNAi 
therapeutic development. With the transaction 
complete, it is now our task to establish a path 
that allows us to optimise our resources and 
efficiently advance our development programmes 
and clinical efforts. To this end, we recently 
announced a restructuring of the Company 
to focus research in Berlin, and business 
operations in Palo Alto. We will continue 
to evaluate the most beneficial strategies 
to address the challenges ahead.
In closing, I wish to express my sincere appreciation 
to our dedicated employees and the shareholders 
who support our Company. In the coming year, 
we will continue to work diligently to advance 
our groundbreaking science and to continue 
to build shareholder value.
Thank you for your continued support 
of Silence Therapeutics. 
Philip Haworth PhD
Chief Executive Officer
