 06 · Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 201 1 www.silence-therapeutics.com
Overview
Since joining Silence Therapeutics in September 2011, 
I have been excited by the Company and the opportunities 
that lie ahead. As a consequence, I was pleased to take over 
as Chief Executive Officer in February 2012, as I believe 
we have a unique proprietary position in RNAi therapeutics 
and their delivery. Over the next few years, I intend to increase 
the commercial focus of the Company, harness the RNAi 
therapeutics opportunity and, as a result, create substantial 
shareholder value.
2011 has been an exciting year for Silence Therapeutics, 
with progress across all areas of the business. We started 
this year looking forward to clinical data to validate both 
the therapeutic benefit to be obtained by RNA interference 
(RNAi or siRNA), as well as our proprietary delivery 
technologies. I am pleased to report that our Company 
has delivered on this expectation, in both our proprietary 
and partnered programmes. 
We have also worked hard on building the financial future 
of the business, improving its efficiency and strengthening 
its commercial activities, all of which is discussed below. 
Silence Therapeutics is proud of its RNAi therapeutic 
platform, comprising proprietary delivery technologies, 
potent siRNA sequences and innovative RNAi structural 
features. We believe that our progress in 2011 shows the 
synergistic value of these propositions. 
Encouraging clinical data
Silence Therapeutics is prominent in an exciting new sector 
in the drug development arena, the translation of RNA blocking 
(RNAi) technology into therapies. Since we, and others active 
in this area, believe that the technology has potential in a broad 
range of clinical indications – including oncology, vascular, 
metabolic and ophthalmic diseases – it brings the potential 
for better patient outcomes in these major therapeutic areas. 
One of the first steps in demonstrating this potential is the 
generation of data from clinical studies conducted with 
RNAi therapeutics.
In June 2011, Silence presented encouraging interim data 
from its ongoing Phase I trial of proprietary product Atu027 
in patients with solid tumours at the prestigious annual meeting 
of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO). 
We believe that these important findings serve as valuable 
validation for Silence’s RNAi technology platform, as well 
as its AtuPLEX™ delivery technology. This should stand the 
Company, with its increased business development focus, 
in good stead as we work on partnering our programmes 
and exploiting our valuable RNAi delivery intellectual 
property estate. 
To summarise, Silence Therapeutics made progress in several 
key areas in 2011, which we discuss in more detail below. 
These include:
 I clinical trial progress for both our proprietary and 
partnered programmes;
 I three new delivery deals, with further progress 
in established programmes;
 I sharpening of our business development focus 
with important new top‑level hires;
 I refinancing and restructuring of the organisation; and
 I further development and recognition of Silence’s 
intellectual property portfolio, particularly in the area 
of RNAi delivery.
Operational
Clinical trial progress for both our proprietary 
and partnered programmes
Clinical trial data is key to establishing the potential of RNAi 
therapeutics and we are pleased that it generated significant 
excitement this year both for Silence and its partners. 
Proprietary programmes
Atu027, Silence Therapeutics’ lead programme for cancer
In 2011, we were able to report impressive interim results 
from the Phase I ascending dose clinical trial of our lead 
programme, cancer treatment Atu027 for solid tumours. 
Atu027 incorporates our AtuPLEX delivery system with 
AtuRNAi, our proprietary RNAi chemistry, and specifically 
targets PKN3, a protein implicated in cancer growth 
and metastases.
These results were presented at ASCO and showed stabilisation 
of the disease in 38% of the cases (9 of 24 patients), as well 
Tony Sedgwick Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive’s review
“ Wehaveworkedhardonbuildingthefinancialfutureofthebusiness,
improvingitsefficiencyandstrengtheningitscommercialactivities.” Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 201 1 Business Review · 07
as other indications of potential efficacy. Importantly, on 
the safety side, the trial data obtained so far have indicated 
that AtuPLEX is safe in humans at dose levels above those 
that have shown effectiveness in preclinical studies. Among 
the patients who achieved stable disease, one individual with 
neuroendocrine cancer achieved disease stabilisation for 
nine months with a second neuroendocrine cancer patient 
showing partial regression of pulmonary metastases. 
An additional patient with breast cancer experienced 
some regression in liver metastases. 
32 patients have been treated so far and enrolment of all 
33–36 patients is expected to be completed in the first half 
of 2012 with results announced in the middle of the year. 
The Company believes that the encouraging data 
received to date represents an important step along the 
path towards realising value for shareholders. Assuming 
successful completion of the Phase I study, we expect to initiate 
a Phase Ib/IIa clinical study of Atu027 in the second half of 
2012. The Company will also continue licensing discussions 
regarding Atu027 with potential pharmaceutical partners. 
Atu111, our most advanced product outside oncology
Atu111, for the treatment of acute lung injury, is our most 
advanced drug development candidate outside oncology. 
It combines our DACC drug delivery system with AtuRNAi 
and its target is undisclosed. We have recently completed 
proof of concept studies in a preclinical model of acute lung 
injury, demonstrating very impressive results using Atu111. 
Further studies are ongoing in a variety of other preclinical 
models of the disease. 
Earlier preclinical work using Atu111 has shown sustained 
gene knockdown of up to three weeks in the lung endothelium, 
suggesting the drug could be used with a single dose. 
Atu134
Following the encouraging data generated from the ongoing 
Phase I trial of Atu027 and additional data from preclinical 
models of Atu134, Silence has concluded that the potential 
clinical profiles of these two products are too similar to 
warrant further development of both programmes. We 
therefore decided in November to divert the resources for 
Atu134 to other areas, specifically potential targets in the liver 
that could be inhibited by using Silence’s novel liver‑focused 
DBTC delivery system. 
Partnered programmes
Silence Therapeutics has two licence agreements with partner 
Quark Pharmaceuticals, for products PF‑04523655 and 
QPI‑1002, both of which are in development in two different 
therapeutic indications. Quark has licensed these to Pfizer 
and Novartis, respectively. The positive data received from 
the programmes in 2011 further highlights both the potential 
of RNAi therapeutics and of Silence’s AtuRNAi technology, 
which is incorporated into these products.
Q u a r k / P fi z e rp r o g r a m m e s
In March 2011, Quark announced the completion of the DEGAS 
study, a Phase II clinical trial of PF‑04523655 for the treatment 
of the ophthalmic indication of diabetic macular oedema. 
The product, which incorporates Silence’s AtuRNAi technology, 
was shown to be more effective than laser therapy. Quark 
has now initiated a Phase IIb study comparing PF‑04523655 
to Lucentis (Roche/Novartis), the new standard of care in the 
treatment of diabetic macular oedema. 
In addition, PF‑04523655 recently completed a Phase II trial 
in the second ophthalmic indication of age related macular 
degeneration. The trial demonstrated a dose‑dependent increase 
in benefit of PF‑04523655. Quark is now awaiting results from 
the Phase IIb trial in diabetic macular oedema before deciding 
on plans for the drug in age‑related macular degeneration.
Quark/Novartis programmes
In August 2010, Quark signed an option and licence agreement 
with Novartis for QPI‑1002 as mentioned previously. In September 
of that year, Quark initiated a Phase II study in prevention 
of delayed graft function in patients undergoing kidney 
transplantation. Recruitment into this trial has progressed 
well and we expect the trial to be completed in the middle 
of 2012. A Phase I study has been successfully completed 
in the second indication of acute kidney injury. Quark plans 
to initiate a Phase II trial depending on the results of the 
ongoing trial in the prevention of delayed graft function. 
Summary
 I Silence Therapeutics is a leader in an exciting new drug 
development arena known as RNAi.
 I Silence made significant progress in 201 1 with its internal pipeline. 
In particular, interim Phase I data of lead programme Atu027 was 
presented in June at the prestigious annual meeting of the 
American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO). 
 I Silence’s partnered programmes made significant advances during 
2011 with PF-04523655 (Quark/Pfizer) successfully completing a 
Phase II trial in diabetic macular oedema and QPI-1002 progressing 
well in a Phase II trial in prevention of delayed graft function.
 I The value of this portfolio of delivery technologies was underlined 
in 201 1 with the signature of three agreements with new partners, 
InteRNA Technologies B.V., miRNA Therapeutics Inc and a top ten 
pharmaceutical company.
 I Silence Therapeutics has two licence agreements with 
partner Quark Pharmaceuticals, for products PF 04523655 
and QPI 1002, both of which are in development in two 
different therapeutic indications.
 I Efficient and safe delivery of RNAi therapeutics is key to the 
success of the field and Silence now has three such delivery 
systems (AtuPLEX, DACC and DBTC). 08 · Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 201 1 www.silence-therapeutics.com
Operational continued
Progress in research collaborations
Silence is pleased to have been working with AstraZeneca 
in the area of RNAi since 2007 , in the form of two collaborations, 
both of which were extended in 2010. AstraZeneca has now 
completed the research phase of the first of these collaborations, 
a research and development collaboration focused on five 
respiratory and oncology targets, and nominated three of 
the five targets as “Accepted Programmes”. 
The second collaboration, for the development of novel 
approaches for the delivery of siRNA molecules, was 
entered into in March 2008. The research phase of this 
collaboration has also been completed and AstraZeneca 
retains the right to use the DACC delivery system developed 
for their “Accepted Programmes”.
Valuable portfolio of delivery technologies
Efficient and safe delivery of RNAi therapeutics is key to the 
success of the field and Silence Therapeutics’ programmes, 
as well as those of other companies active in this area. 
The Company possesses three proprietary siRNA delivery 
technology platforms, AtuPLEX, DACC (lung) and DBTC (liver), 
two of which are already being used in the programmes of 
partners. This comprehensive delivery platform allows our RNAi 
therapeutics to reach many different organs, with the liver and 
lungs increasingly becoming targets of interest in the RNAi field 
and the pharmaceutical industry generally. 
Because of the importance of appropriate delivery in 
this therapeutic area, we believe our delivery platform will 
deliver significant value to the Company via non‑exclusive 
partnership deals: 
 I AtuPLEX enables the delivery of siRNA molecules to targeted 
diseased tissues and cells in the vascular endothelium (blood 
vessels), while increasing their bioavailability and intracellular 
uptake. It incorporates Silence’s proprietary lipid AtuFect and 
is used to embed siRNAs into a multiple lipid bi‑layer 
structure. It is incorporated in Atu027 .
 I The DACC novel lipid delivery system enables functional, 
highly specific and efficient delivery of siRNA molecules 
selectively to the lung endothelium with a long duration of 
action (over three weeks). Like AtuPLEX, it also incorporates 
Silence’s proprietary lipid AtuFect and is used to embed 
siRNAs into a multiple lipid bi‑layer structure. The DACC 
delivery system is incorporated in Atu111, Silence’s preclinical 
development candidate for the treatment of acute lung injury.
 I The DBTC delivery system is lipid‑based and targets the 
liver. Studies have shown it to be well tolerated and have 
a significant duration of action. It therefore has therapeutic 
potential in areas such as heptatocellular carcinoma, liver 
fibrosis and acute liver failure. 
Chief Executive’s review continued
“ The value of our portfolio of delivery technologies was underlined 
in 2011 with the signature of three agreements with new partners.”
Goal review
Last year we set ourselves some goals for completion 
at the end of 2011.
1.  Complete Phase I clinical 
trial of Atu027
Completion is now expected in the middle of 2012.
2.  Present interim Phase I 
data on Atu027
Data was presented at the American Society 
of Clinical Oncology (ASCO).
3 .  Ad v a n c e p r e c li n i c a l 
programmes for Atu134 
and Atu111
Atu111 continues to progress through preclinical 
development. However, in November 2011, the 
decision was taken to refocus resources away 
from Atu134.
4 .  C o m p l et e n e w 
corporate alliances
During 2011, Silence signed three new collaborations 
relating to its RNAi delivery technologies.
Our goals for 2012
1. Complete Phase I clinical trial of Atu027
2. Announce results of Atu027
3. Advance Atu111 and establish new preclinical programmes
4. Complete new corporate alliance Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 201 1 Business Review · 09
Three new delivery deals
The value of this portfolio of delivery technologies was 
underlined in 2011 with the signature of three agreements 
with new partners, InteRNA Technologies B.V., miRNA 
Therapeutics Inc and a top ten pharmaceutical company. 
Interestingly, two of these three agreements were for a 
different form of RNA therapeutic to the siRNA approach 
being used by Silence Therapeutics, i.e. microRNA. This 
emphasises the value of our delivery platform. 
In September, we established an agreement with 
InteRNA Technologies B.V., which is developing microRNA 
(miRNA)‑based therapeutics for cancer. MicroRNA 
intervention is an exciting new therapeutic area for which 
the Silence technology platform is well suited and the 
deal was our first in this area. We are looking forward to 
the results from this collaboration, which we believe will 
demonstrate the potential of AtuPLEX for the delivery 
of RNA‑based therapeutics outside of the siRNA arena. 
Under the agreement, we will combine Silence’s proprietary 
AtuPLEX delivery system with InteRNA’s novel microRNAs 
to develop multiple novel candidate drugs. The two companies 
will then undertake in vitro and in vivo studies of the candidate 
drugs and select lead candidates for further evaluation. 
Silence is eligible to receive up‑front fees as well as staged 
research payments if the collaboration progresses. 
The potential of Silence Therapeutics’ delivery technologies 
in this new area was further underlined in October 2011 with our 
second miRNA deal. The collaboration, with miRNA Therapeutics , 
is to investigate the potential of both AtuPLEX and our DBTC 
delivery system with our partner’s novel microRNAs for the 
treatment of cancer. We are pleased that our first deal on 
DBTC is in this exciting new therapeutic area. Silence 
Therapeutics will formulate selected miRNA sequences into 
AtuPLEX and DBTC in order to generate candidate drugs, 
which will then undergo in vitro and in vivo testing at miRNA 
in order to select those to take forward for further evaluation. 
In October 2011 we also signed an siRNA delivery 
collaboration for DACC with a top ten pharmaceutical 
company – our first deal covering this technology for delivery 
to the lung. Under the terms of the agreement, our partner 
will provide us with specific siRNAs, which we will formulate 
into the DACC delivery system. Silence and its partner will 
undertake in vitro and in vivo studies of the DACC‑formulated 
siRNAs developed under the agreement and select lead 
candidates for further evaluation. 
Silence’s impressive pipeline of products not only validates the strength 
of the company’s technology but also the depth of knowledge that has 
guided the development path.
Products Partners Target  
Tissue/Organ
Delivery  
Method
Market size Discovery Pre‑clinical Phase I Phase II Phase IIb
PF‑4523655
Diabetic Macular  
Edema
Pfizer/Quark RTP801 – Local delivery  
to the eye
Naked siRNA $1bn+  
(potential)
PF‑4523655
Age-related Macular 
Degeneration
Pfizer/Quark RTP801 – Local delivery  
to the eye
Naked siRNA $3.1bn  
(2010)
QPI‑1002
Prevention of Delayed 
Graft Function
Novartis/Quark P53 – Systemic delivery  
to the kidney
Naked siRNA $4.4bn  
(2010)
QPI‑1002
Acute Kidney Injury 
Novartis/Quark P53 – Systemic delivery  
to the kidney
Naked siRNA $1bn+  
(potential)
Aut027
Solid Tumours 
Silence PKN3 – Systemic delivery  
to Tumour endothelium
AtuPLEX $8.2bn+  
(angiogenesis  
mkt 2010)
Atu111
Acute Lung Injury
Silence Systemic delivery  
to Lung endothelium
DACC $1bn+  
potential
Liver Diseases
(DBTC programs)
Silence Systemic delivery  
to liver hepatocytes  
and endothelium
DBTC Undisclosed
Lung Diseases
(DACC system) 
Silence Systemic delivery  
to Lung endothelium
DACC Undisclosed 10 · Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 201 1 www.silence-therapeutics.com
Operational continued
Ongoing delivery collaborations progress
In addition to these exciting new deals, we have an ongoing 
siRNA delivery collaboration with Dainippon Sumitomo 
signed in 2008. Under this collaboration, we are jointly 
leveraging Silence’s proprietary siRNA molecules and 
delivery technologies to demonstrate delivery of RNAi 
therapeutics to specific disease targets. This agreement, 
which originally included two drug targets, was expanded 
in 2010 to include two more. 
Securing our financial position
Silence Therapeutics ended 2010 with cash reserves of 
£3.57m and we indicated in the first quarter of 2011 that 
we would be seeking additional funding to drive continued 
development of the Company. Accordingly, in May 2011, 
Silence successfully raised £5.51m net of expenses through 
a placing and open offer. 
Given the substantial financial and economic volatility 
experienced globally over the last few years, particularly 
in the biotechnology sector, we were extremely pleased with 
this result, which gave us a substantially improved financial 
footing and extended the cash runway to the end of the 
third quarter of 2012 from existing cash resources alone. 
The fundraising was supported by both existing and new 
shareholders, whom we thank for their support and welcome 
to Silence Therapeutics. 
Part of the proceeds are to be used to, among other things, 
complete the ongoing Phase I trial and initiate a Phase Ib 
trial of Atu027, and advance preclinical development of the 
Atu111 programme for lung disease. As shareholders can 
see, we have made progress in these areas and expect to 
continue to do so.
A streamlined business focused 
on business development
Increased financial efficiency
As 2011 progressed it became clear to Silence Therapeutics 
that, in order to create a more streamlined and efficient business, 
some streamlining and consolidation of operating sites was 
needed. Following the 2010 acquisition of Intradigm Inc, 
managing and working across our three sites in the UK, 
Germany and the US had generated considerable operational 
difficulties as well as increased costs. 
In April 2011, we announced plans to close our Redwood 
City office in California. This was completed in August. 
As a consequence, our US‑based Chief Executive Officer, 
Dr Phil Haworth, stepped down. I joined the business in 
September initially as Chief Business Officer, but was 
delighted to be able to accept the appointment as Chief 
Executive Officer in February 2012 following the departure 
of Thomas Christély, who took on the role of Chief Executive 
Officer briefly after the departure of Dr Haworth.
With the US‑based business development and legal functions 
absorbed elsewhere in the Group, its operations are now 
based in Berlin, where our research and development 
facilities have always been located. In addition there 
is a small management presence in London. 
In addition to the closure of the US facility, we were able 
to further streamline the business by reducing headcount 
in Berlin from 32 to 27, via the loss of some non‑critical 
roles and by reducing the size of our Board. The latter had 
become too large following the acquisition of Intradigm 
Corporation and, as a consequence, Dr James Topper 
and Dr David U’Prichard resigned from the Board of Directors 
effective 29 July 2011 and 31 December 2011, respectively. 
We thank both Dr Topper and Dr U’Prichard for their valuable 
contribution to Silence Therapeutics. 
These measures helped us to increase our cash runway and, 
combined with our fundraising, mean that we have sufficient 
funding to last us until Q3 2012. 
Significantly strengthened business 
development focus
With encouraging data so far from the Phase I trial 
of Atu027, and the level of interest in Silence Therapeutics’ 
RNAi delivery technologies in 2011, it was clearly time 
to invest more significantly in our business development 
activities. An important part of this will be the partnering 
with and generation of value from these assets. In addition, 
with the availability of finance significantly reduced in the 
current economic crisis, the global biotechnology sector 
has increasingly accessed non‑dilutive financing from 
sources such as public sector organisations (for example, 
research councils and leading charities). We consider 
this to be a major objective in our enhanced business 
development activity. 
Strong business development team
Our business development activity was further enhanced 
in November 2011 with the appointment of Dr Georg Buchner, 
as Vice president of Business Development. Georg was 
formerly Vice‑president of Corporate and Business Development 
at Novacta Biosystems Ltd (Novacta). Prior to joining Novacta, 
Georg was Business Development Director at Haptogen Ltd 
where he was instrumental in the sale of the business to Wyeth 
(now part of Pfizer) in 2007. He has a PhD in Molecular Genetics 
from King’s College London and an MBA from the University 
of Cambridge’s Judge Institute of Management and will be 
working with myself to continue to broaden our collaborations 
with global pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.
Chief Executive’s review continued
“ In  2011,  we  achieved  signifi cant  success  in  obtaining  new  issued  patents 
further strengthening protection of our innovative technologies.” Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 201 1 Business Review · 11
Strength through intellectual property
Our broad and diverse intellectual property portfolio 
continues to provide us with a competitive advantage 
and a strong proprietary position in the RNAi therapeutics 
space. We believe that we have been successful in aggressively 
building one of the world’s most comprehensive RNAi patent 
estates and expect that this asset will continue to offer 
significant support for our ongoing partnering activities. 
Our patent estate covers the areas which we believe to be 
pivotal to the successful development of RNAi therapeutics, 
from the structure of the molecules themselves to how they 
are delivered. In addition, we have achieved significant 
successes in establishing key levels of patent protection 
for our technologies in Europe, the US and Japan, offering 
opportunities in these important healthcare markets. Silence 
remains committed to the expansion and strengthening of 
its intellectual property portfolio in target markets around the 
globe. In 2011 we made progress in both the US and Japan, 
covering RNAi structures and delivery, as well as receiving 
further confirmation of the strength of the Zamore Design 
Rules patents, as discussed below. 
Patent issuance and success versus challenges
In the US, a new patent that broadens Silence Therapeutics’ 
existing protection of optimised RNAi molecules, including 
our proprietary AtuRNAi platform, was issued. Also in that 
territory, we received a notice of allowance of a new patent 
that provides protection for a core component of our 
proprietary AtuPLEX delivery platform. 
Protection in Japan was enhanced by issuance of a patent 
covering novel AtuRNAi molecules, which will support 
our efforts to establish partnerships with leaders in the 
pharmaceutical industry there. In addition, we received 
news of issuance of a Japanese patent covering methods 
for screening a therapeutic agent for the treatment and/or 
prevention of any disease that involves elevated activity 
within the PI3‑kinase pathway. This new intellectual property 
includes coverage for the use of the gene target protein 
kinase N beta (‘PKN3’) for screening of therapeutic agents 
and is important to us as PKN3 is the target of our leading 
therapeutic programme Atu027. 
Our patents in this area were further supported in December 2011 
with a positive outcome from an oral hearing at the European 
Patent Office (EPO) over the opposition to Silence’s granted 
European Patent EP 1 536 827 “Further use of protein kinase 
N beta”. The Opposition division of the EPO decided to uphold 
the patent in amended form, now restricted to metastatic cancers. 
This is the focus of Silence’s ongoing Atu027 Phase I study 
and we are pleased that the product continues to be protected 
by this intellectual property and other patents, for example, 
those around AtuPLEX and the AtuRNAi sequence used 
in the product. 
Looking at Atu027
Silence’s lead internal RNAi therapeutic candidate, 
Atu027, is currently in a Phase I clinical trial. Atu027 has 
demonstrated anticancer activity against a broad range 
of tumour types including gastrointestinal, non-small 
cell lung, prostate, melanoma, breast and others.
Top-line data presented at ASCO in June 2011 included 
results for 24 patients who received the study’s first eight 
doses of Atu027.
 I Six of these patients experienced stable disease after 
three months.
 I One patient with neuroendocrine cancer had disease 
stabilization for nine months.
 I A second neuroendocrince cancer patient experienced 
partial regression of pulmonary metastases
 I A patient with breast cancer demonstrated regression 
of liver metastases.
“ This positive data is very encouraging 
and we believe the disease stabilization 
and antitumor activity, in particular, 
are suggestive of a potential therapeutic 
be n e fi t  f o r  e x tr e m e l y  ill  p a ti e n ts  w h o 
have no other treatment options.” 12 · Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 201 1 www.silence-therapeutics.com
Operational continued
Patent issuance and success versus challenges 
continued
Silence has exclusive licences covering three patent families 
from the University of Massachusetts Medical School 
collectively known as the “Zamore Design Rules”. In 2011, 
following an anonymous request, four of the US patents 
covering the Zamore Design Rules successfully completed 
re‑examination by the US Patent and Trademark Office 
(USPTO) and in December 2011, we were able to report 
that the USPTO had issued “Notices of Intent to Issue 
Re‑examination Certificates”. In Europe, the patent is 
currently being opposed by Alnylam and other parties.
Investor relations (IR) strategy 
Silence Therapeutics maintains active communications 
and an investor relations strategy to provide transparency 
and maximise dialogue with its stakeholders.
As part of its 2011 IR strategy, Silence has held investor 
meetings across Europe and attends investor conferences 
internationally throughout the year, full details of which 
can be found on the Company’s website 
(http://silence‑therapeutics.com). 
In line with the London Stock Exchange’s AIM requirements, 
Silence discloses its investor news on a frequent basis via 
its Regulatory Information Service provider and the Company 
holds a number of conference calls and meetings throughout 
the year in order to reach investors effectively. In addition, 
the Company’s website serves as an effective tool for 
investor communications. 
Silence also participates in the evolving social media scene 
and communicated digitally online with frequency through 
LinkedIn, Facebook,YouTube and recently Twitter. In February 
2012, Silence launched its new website, designed with a range 
of interactive features and online social media tools, to reflect 
the new direction and more commercial focus of the Company. 
These included twitter feeds, company news flashes and 
regular industry updates from its real‑time RNAi Hub. 
Summary and outlook
During 2011, Silence Therapeutics has built a significantly 
stronger business, more able to deal with the rigours of 
today’s financial climate and better placed to exploit our 
wealth of assets. By restructuring the business, strengthening 
the management team and raising a significant amount of 
financing in challenging economic conditions, we believe we 
have more than justified the decision made at the beginning 
of the year to remain an independent business. 
Exciting year ahead
2012 will be an important and exciting year for Silence 
Therapeutics. With a new and commercially focused 
management team, the Company is set to achieve 
shareholder value uplift. Importantly, there will be clinical 
data from us, both for Atu027 and our partnered products, 
as well as other companies in the sector. 2012 clinical news 
flow expected from us and our partners includes the anticipated 
start of Phase Ib/IIa clinical trials with Atu027. This will be 
an important milestone for Silence Therapeutics. 
As well as continuing to develop our pipeline, key priorities 
for Silence this year are to secure the Company’s financial 
future and to continue to generate value through partnering. 
Our fundraising and moves to reduce cash burn this year 
have extended our cash runway to the end of the third quarter 
of 2012, not taking into account potential milestones from 
our collaboration partners. 
With our enhanced business development function, we will 
be looking at building value and generating income through 
our partnering activities. One of our priorities in this area is 
the signature of out‑licensing or co‑development agreements 
for Atu027 or other internal candidates such as Atu111, 
assuming they continue to generate encouraging data. 
Silence also believes that the quality of its RNAi therapeutic 
platform – including AtuRNAi and our portfolio of delivery 
technologies – will continue to be recognised by partners in 
licensing deals and research collaborations. We are proud of 
our list of partners – which includes four of the top ten global 
pharmaceutical companies – and expect to add to it in 2012. 
Silence plans to attend scientific and medical conferences 
throughout the year in order to undertake a structured 
outreach to our key audiences. We are pleased to confirm 
that during 2012, Dr Klaus Giese, Silence’s Chief Scientific 
Officer, plans to present at a number of world‑leading 
biopharmaceutical events.
Another area of focus for the business development team 
will be looking at accessing non‑dilutive forms of financing, 
such as grants from the large research charities. In recent 
years this type of funding has grown in importance to the 
global biopharmaceutical sector, partly driven by financial 
and economic conditions. Silence Therapeutics considers 
it an important option for the Company to develop our 
pipeline of therapeutics and build shareholder value. 
Providing as it does the foundation of our business, 
we will continue to prosecute, defend and grow our 
intellectual property portfolio. Areas of focus for additional 
patent protection include all essential components of RNAi 
therapeutic development, including multiple proprietary 
siRNA delivery technologies, potent siRNA sequences 
and key siRNA sequence and chemical modifications, 
as well as specific high‑value disease targets.
2012 looks to be an exciting year for us. In concluding my 
comments, it is important for me to note that the achievements 
we made in 2011 were only possible through the hard work 
and dedication of our staff and the support of our shareholders. 
My thanks are due to all of you, as we work together to bring 
much‑needed RNAi therapeutics to patients. 
Tony Sedgwick, PhD
Chief Executive Officer
27 March 2012
Chief Executive’s review continued
