 02
Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2009
Post year-end highlights
By combining the expertise 
of both Intradigm and Silence, 
we now have 
delivery technology platforms.
PF-4523655 Diabetic macular oedema Pfizer/Quark     Local delivery to the eye 
(AtuRNAi)
PF-4523655 Age‑related macular degen Pfizer/Quark    Local delivery to the eye 
(AtuRNAi)
QPI‑1002 Acute kidney injury Quark    Systemic delivery to the kidney 
(AtuRNAi)
QPI‑1002 Prevention of delayed graft function Quark    Systemic delivery to the kidney 
(AtuRNAi)
Atu027 GI & lung and other cancers  Internal    Systemic delivery to tumour 
(AtuRNAi)      endothelium
Atu134 Acute lung injury  Internal    Systemic delivery to lung 
(AtuRNAi)      endothelium
Atu111 Solid tumours  Internal    Systemic delivery to tumour  
(AtuRNAi)      endothelium
Atu150 Solid tumours Internal    Systemic delivery to tumour 
(AtuRNAi)      endothelium
At least half of the siRNA therapeutics currently in clinical trials are based on Silence technology.
Product Indications Partners Preclinical Phase I Phase II Status
Our product pipeline
Naked siRNA
Naked siRNA
Naked siRNA
Naked siRNA
DACC8
AtuPlex
AtuPlex
AtuPlex 03
Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2009
Review
of the year
Corporate
governance
Financial
statements
Post year-end operations
  Silence merged with US-based RNAi therapeutic company Intradigm Corporation 
(Intradigm) on 5 January 2010 to form a leading company in the field of RNA 
interference. The merger was effected by the issue of Silence shares to the shareholders of 
Intradigm such that the Intradigm shareholders at the time of the merger owned approximately 
36% of the issued share capital of Silence. The merger offers a number of strategic benefits 
including multiple RNAi discovery, development and delivery technologies, a broad internal 
and partnered product pipeline and a strong portfolio of intellectual property. 
  In parallel with the merger, Silence Therapeutics raised £15m (gross) through an 
institutional placing and a subscription of shares at a price of 23p per share. The funds 
raised will support the Company’s ongoing development efforts and provide the strength 
from which to pursue additional partnerships and development deals.
  Upon completion of the merger, Philip Haworth, J.D. PhD, former chief executive officer of 
Intradigm, assumed the role of Chief Executive Officer of the enlarged Group.
  The United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) issued the Company a notice 
of allowance on a patent application directed to methods of treatment using PKN-3, 
a high-value therapeutic target in the area of oncology. 
  Silence and Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd agreed to expand their ongoing 
siRNA delivery collaboration to examine delivery of RNAi therapeutics to additional disease 
targets selected by Dainippon Sumitomo. 
  Silence announced a strategic plan designed to optimally organise its resources 
following its recent merger with Intradigm. Moving forward, all research activities related to 
Silence’s novel RNAi therapeutic platforms, including technologies that have emerged from 
both Silence and Intradigm, will take place at the Company’s Berlin location. Other functions 
including operations, business development, legal and certain drug development activities 
will be conducted in Palo Alto. Silence expects this move to result in a significant reduction 
in the Company’s operating costs moving forward. 
  Silence and AstraZeneca agreed to an extension of their ongoing siRNA delivery 
collaboration to examine new and enhanced delivery approaches for RNAi therapeutics. 
Post year-end Board and management changes
  Silence announced a Board change with the resignation of Iain Ross as Chairman.  
Jerry Randall, who was appointed to the Silence Board in 2008, was appointed 
Non‑executive Chairman.
  Silence announced a management and Board change with the resignation of Melvyn Davies 
as Chief Financial Officer. Silence also announced the appointment of Max Herrmann as the 
Company’s Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary with effect from 4 May 2010.
