 Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2009
04
Chairman’s statement
2009 was a defining year for Silence Therapeutics. 
Each of the Company’s internal programmes 
advanced steadily – we entered into a new 
collaboration with Dainippon Sumitomo and 
made excellent progress with each of our 
pharma partnerships, and we strengthened 
our intellectual property position by expanding 
our portfolio of filed and issued patents.
Despite our many internal successes, the 
turbulence of the world’s financial markets created 
a significant degree of uncertainty that required 
the Company’s attention and decisive action. 
In an effort to address the declining opportunity 
for financing and the erosion of our share value, 
we began to evaluate our options, with the goal 
of achieving the following objectives:
  establish Silence as a partner‑of‑choice 
for the world’s leading pharmaceutical 
companies; 
  expand our technology base to allow us 
to best address the challenges of RNAi 
delivery; and
  secure additional financing for 
the Company.
The merger with Intradigm Corporation, which 
was completed in January 2010, took Silence 
Therapeutics a long way to achieving these goals 
including a concurrent financing of £15.0m (gross). 
As a result, Silence is now better funded and holds 
a strong strategic position in the three areas 
we believe are critical to building, protecting 
and commercialising RNAi therapeutics: 
  Proprietary delivery technologies 
  Silence’s delivery platform is one of the 
industry’s broadest, including both lipid 
and polymer technologies, offering drug 
developers an increased opportunity for 
successful delivery to specific tissues 
to cause specific therapeutic benefits. 
  Potent siRNA sequences 
  Silence has issued and pending patents 
on multiple high‑value siRNA sequences 
of varying structure. 
  Innovative siRNA structural features 
  Silence has issued and pending patents directed 
to one of the industry’s most advanced siRNA 
chemical modification technologies optimised 
for improved stability, yield and safety.
  Silence’s exclusive licences from the University 
of Massachusetts provide access to issued and 
pending patents associated with the Zamore 
“Design Rules” including methods for increased 
potency and reduced off‑target effects. 
A key factor in establishing Silence as a 
partner‑of‑choice for pharmaceutical companies 
is our ability to provide novel and effective siRNA 
delivery solutions. As it is not likely that the vast 
range of siRNA delivery challenges will be addressed 
by a single platform, we believe it’s critical to build 
a broad toolbox of solutions and technologies. 
By combining the impressive expertise of both 
Silence and Intradigm, we now have one of the 
industry’s most comprehensive and versatile 
delivery technology platforms, providing Silence 
with unmatched potential to develop solutions 
for successful siRNA delivery to particular tissues 
to cause specific therapeutic benefits. The combined 
assets of the new Company have drawn the attention 
of a number of leading pharmaceutical companies 
worldwide and we are actively engaged in partnering 
discussions spanning a range of new and 
exciting development opportunities. 
In summary, the merger combined the strength 
of two innovative entities and created a new 
leadership in RNAi therapeutic development. 
“ A key factor in 
establishing Silence 
as a partner-of-choice 
for pharmaceutical 
companies is our 
ability to provide 
novel and effective 
siRNA delivery 
solutions.”  05
Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2009
Review
of the year
Corporate
governance
Financial
statements
As a result, we have succeeded in establishing 
a new company with the following strengths 
and advantages: 
  Comprehensive platform of technologies 
capable of addressing the discovery, 
development and delivery of RNAi 
therapeutics. Capabilities extend to all essential 
areas for successful product development 
including formulation and drug delivery, 
siRNA structure and chemistry and a diverse 
library of therapeutic siRNA sequences. 
  Advancing pipeline of internal and partnered 
product candidates. At least half of the siRNA 
programmes currently in clinical development 
globally incorporate Silence’s technology. 
These include product candidates that are 
being advanced by partners such as Pfizer 
and Quark Pharma.
  Broad and diverse intellectual property 
portfolio. IP protection covering essential 
areas of RNAi therapeutic development 
(target sequences, delivery and siRNA 
structural features).
  Validating partnerships with global 
pharmaceutical companies. The multiple 
major partnerships with companies such 
as AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Quark Pharma 
and Dainippon Sumitomo demonstrate 
the credibility of Silence’s technologies. 
  Experienced management team and 
Board of Directors. Our new management 
team, Board and recent reorganisation 
provide the expertise and focused skills 
required to advance Silence’s discovery 
and development activities.
  Expanded financial support and stability 
to facilitate new growth opportunities. 
International shareholder base offers broader 
access to capital, which should ultimately 
provide additional strength to negotiate 
favourable strategic transactions. 
We believe the merger produced a stronger, 
more stable and technologically sophisticated 
Company that is well positioned as a new leader 
in RNAi therapeutic development. We are actively 
developing our strategic plan for the near term, 
and we will continue to take all steps required 
to advance our internal and partnership programmes, 
as well as establish new collaborations to fuel 
our pipeline in the future.
We are grateful for the support of our shareholders 
and new investors alike and we wish to assure 
them both that we are committed to building 
corporate value through meaningful scientific 
progress and additional high‑value partnerships 
with the pharmaceutical industry. 
Thank you for your continued support 
of Silence Therapeutics. 
Jerry Randall ACA
Chairman 
The merger 
 of two innovative 
companies and created a 
 in RNAi 
therapeutic development.
