 This is the first full year’s trading of Silverdell Plc after its
admission to AIM as Bow Lane Capital Plc in April 2006
and the acquisition of Silverdell (UK) Limited in July 2006.
It has been a year of substantial development in line
with our stated strategy of providing a nationwide 
“one-stop-shop” for asbestos services.
At 30 September 2006, the group comprised Silverdell
(UK) Limited (“Silverdell (UK)”), one of the largest and
best known asbestos remediation businesses, with a
relatively small consulting division. Based in the South
East, but with offices in the Midlands, Yorkshire and
South Wales, Silverdell (UK) provided the platform for
future expansion.
Silverdell (UK) has had another record year in its first
year as part of the quoted group. Turnover increased 
by 42% to £30.5m and operating profit by 369% to
£4.6m, before a share of central costs. This was an
excellent performance, well ahead of expectations and
reflects the professionalism and dynamism of the people
in the business. Silverdell (UK) won the Construction
News Award for Asbestos Contractor of the Year for the
second year running in May 2007 and the Contract
Journal Award for SME Contractor of the Year in
October 2007, demonstrating the high regard in which
the company is held amongst its customers and peers.
Silverdell (UK) continues to develop long-term
relationships with its customer base. It has built an
enviable record of professionalism and service that 
is second to none in the industry and continues to 
win business from new customers such as Marks 
& Spencer and Shell.
Silverdell (UK) devotes significant time and resource
to health and safety and training. The company has
an exemplary record in respect of Health & Safety
Executive (“HSE”) inspections and Silverdell (UK)’s
Health & Safety Director has recently been appointed to
a group role in order to extend best practice to all group
companies. During the year, we introduced an industry
first – a fully equipped mobile training suite that can be
taken to customers’ sites to provide training with
minimum disruption.
Redhill Analysts Limited (“Redhill Analysts”) was
acquired by Silverdell Plc in December 2006. Redhill
Analysts is an asbestos and environmental consultancy
business whose turnover principally arises from
asbestos surveys, on-site air monitoring of remediation
activities and the provision of asbestos management
plans. In the nine month period since its acquisition
Redhill Analysts turnover was £4.5m and its operating
profit was £0.7m before a share of central costs. This
was slightly behind expectations, caused by the market
being somewhat slower in the summer months and the
requirement to add resource in anticipation of growth in
2007/08, which is underpinned by the very recent client
win of Thames Water.
Redhill Analysts is a very well known and respected
name in asbestos consultancy and has been a
prominent member of the Asbestos Removal
Contractors Association for a number of years. 
It has UKAS and ISO accreditation. 
Since the acquisition, there has been an increasing
trend towards joint tendering and sharing of information
between the group companies. Redhill Analysts is
benefiting from such opportunities and some large
contracts started in the autumn.
On 31 July 2007, Silverdell Plc acquired Kitsons Group
Limited, the ultimate owner of Kitsons Environmental
Europe Limited (“Kitsons”). Kitsons specialises in
asbestos remediation in the nuclear, industrial and
petrochemical sectors; with a head office in the North
West and branch offices in the Midlands, the North
East, and Scotland, it complements the group offering
well. The group now has branch representation
throughout the UK. 
Kitsons has some very long standing customer
relationships, built on reliable and high quality service
delivery, as well as significant visibility of income by
virtue of several long-term preferred supplier
relationships. The company has been successful in
recent asbestos remediation related tenders for nuclear
power station decommissioning and has recently
commenced work at Chapelcross; it is well positioned
to win further tenders due within the next twelve
14
Chief Executive’s Review
Extra tower – Houses of
Parliament surveyed by
Redhill Analysts.
73888 PRE  9/1/08  12:00  Page 14 15
months. Additionally, Kitsons carries out
corrosion remediation for large blue-chip
clients and has a scaffolding business,
principally for in-house purposes.
Trading in the two months that Kitsons has
been in the group has been very satisfactory
and in line with expectations, with turnover
of £3.7m and operating profit of £0.3m
before a share of central costs.
Kitsons has full ISO accreditation (ISO 9001,
ISO 14001 and ISO 18001) and an excellent
track record with the HSE.
On 1 October 2007, Silverdell (UK) acquired
Swift Asbestos (Holdings) Limited (“Swift”),
in line with our strategy of acquiring
earnings enhancing businesses that
complement our existing offering. Based 
in Southampton, where Silverdell (UK) had
no market presence, Swift specialises in
asbestos remediation in the hotel sector.
Swift has been rebranded “Silverdell” and
has been successfully integrated into
Silverdell (UK).
There are substantial opportunities to
leverage the benefits of the new group
structure over the forthcoming months. We
have already submitted tenders for work on
a group basis and this approach has been
well received in the market place. Work is
underway on cost synergies with some early
gains already in the areas of equipment hire
and insurance.
The asbestos services market continues 
to look favourable and the group is uniquely
placed to take advantage of this in terms 
of both organic growth and further
acquisitions, if and when the right
opportunities arise.
Danny T Spicer
Chief Executive Officer
73888 PRE  9/1/08  12:00  Page 15
