 Chairman’s statement
3 Report and Accounts 2008
Trading in the first two months of the current
financial year has been satisfactory and we
are confident of our prospects and see
plenty of potential ahead for the further
development of our company.
Results
For the year ended 30 September 2008, our Company
achieved turnover of £61.4m compared with £38.5m in
the previous year. Pre tax profits reduced from £1.4m in
the previous year to a loss of £16.8m and basic loss per
share was (37.2)p compared with 2.1p of earnings in
the previous year. Adjusted earnings per share, stripping
out amortisation of intangible assets, intangibles
impairment, share-based payment charges, finance
charges on deferred consideration and non-recurring
expenses, was 0.6p (2007: 7.7p). 
As with last year your Directors do not recommend the
payment of a dividend. 
The loss is mainly caused by a material impairment of
the goodwill value of acquisitions. In light of the current
economic environment, where acquisition multiples have
diminished, it was deemed prudent to reduce the
carrying value of these acquisitions. This has no cash
impact on the Group; it merely places a more prudent
valuation on its subsidiaries. The performance of the
acquisitions has in fact been good; it has been Silverdell
(UK), the original business, where results have
disappointed.
The Board and management
Following a disappointing first half, your Directors made
a number of changes to ensure that the prospects for
the business can be maximised. Management changes
have included Danny Spicer moving from the lc board
to become Chairman of Silverdell (UK), where we retain
the benefit of Danny’s customer relations and experience. 
Chris Sims also stood down as Finance Director with
effect from 22 October 2008. Sean Nutley was
promoted to the Chief Executive role on the 22 October
2008 and an interim Group Finance Director recruited.
In addition, the Group’s subsidiary management
structure was strengthened with several new
appointments and the benefits of these changes 
should be evident in due course. 
During the year a number of acquisition opportunities
were reviewed. We were close to making a substantial
acquisition but market conditions deteriorated causing
the Directors to reconsider its merits. Our profits have
been affected by the costs incurred, although our
decision not to proceed proved to be prudent. 
Given all these changes, I particularly wish to thank our
staff for all their efforts during this period. It goes without
saying that we also appreciate the loyalty and support of
our customers.
P
Financing
As at 30 September 2008, debt of £11.2m (2007:
£7.4m) is long term and is expected to mature in 2011.
In addition the Group has short term borrowings of
£3.2m comprising primarily of bank overdrafts and 
loans of £2.8m. Subsequent to the year end, the 
Group concluded its discussions with Barclays Bank to
restructure its existing facilities, which includes a short
term loan of £3.25m due for repayment at 30 June
2009. These restructured facilities combined with the
planned intention to raise additional finance by way 
of equity placing, which certain shareholder’s have led
the Group to believe will be achievable, will provide
sufficient resources, based on projected trading, to allow
the Group to meet is liabilities as they fall due (please
refer to Note 2).   
The Directors, in their consideration of going concern,
have reviewed the Group’s revenue and cash
projections, which they believe are based on prudent
market data and past experience and believe, based on
those forecasts and projections, that it is appropriate to
prepare the financial statements of the Group on the
going concern basis. 
David Williams
Non-Executive Chairman
81733 PRE:81733 PRE  28/3/09  11:57  Page 3
