 Silverdell Plc  
 
 
11 
 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT  
Overview 
A Strong Foundation For Profitable Growth 
Silverdell operates in two distinct markets in the UK: the general domestic refurbishment and construction related 
market and the larger industrial support services market predominantly involved in the petrochemical and nuclear 
sectors, both of which require a high degree of regulatory control. The skills, processes and, importantly, the culture 
that our operating teams have developed in providing asbestos services lend themselves to the handling and 
management of all hazardous materials in a safe and compliant manner, where incidents could have dramatic 
repercussions on the operating efficiency of clients’ establishments and damage to their reputations. To these 
customers we provide reassurance and peace of mind. 
The Group is the largest quoted specialist supplier of asbestos support services in the UK but, despite that, has only a 
small proportion of the wider industrial support services sector; this is where we believe the next step in our growth 
strategy to be. However, because of our proven and well-regarded track record of delivering services in hazardous 
conditions, we are a trusted and long-standing supplier to major companies in the nuclear, defence, petrochemical and 
energy sectors. We are now actively building on this position to create new opportunities for growth in these sectors, 
both in the UK and abroad. We believe that the successful implementation of this strategy will help fulfil our 
ambition to increase the critical mass of the business and secure annual turnover in excess of £100m. 
Strategic review 
Introduction 
We are in the second year of the strategy, building the Group up from the parlous financial state which existed in 
2009. The change in culture which has resulted from our pursuit of our “Protecting Lives, Creating Value” strategy is 
providing improved cohesion, better delivery of client services and positioning the Group well for further growth.  
Increasingly, our key customers are seeking to appoint partners that are capable of offering a single source solution to 
their service needs. In a highly regulated market, they are seeking to achieve long-term certainty and peace of mind 
by appointing reliable, proven supply chain partners, on a framework contract basis. We operate in markets where 
there are very high barriers to entry and which therefore favour long-established, reputable companies such as 
Silverdell Plc.  
Furthermore, we differentiate ourselves from our competitors by striving to provide a premium service across a 
spectrum of complementary services, from on-site Consulting through to remediation, serving all sectors and public 
and private customers. 
‘Protecting Lives, Creating Value’ is a four-pronged strategy that is designed to enable our Group to consolidate   its 
position as the UK’s leading provider of specialist environmental support services and take a larger share of the UK 
industrial support services market but with the capacity to follow our customers overseas or pursue opportunities in 
potentially attractive territories worldwide, where similar legislation is in place. 
Objectives 
For the year ahead, we plan to further strengthen the Silverdell Group and create shareholder value through: 
 Clearly demonstrating our position as a leading provider of  services in high-hazard regulated environments 
through our competence and track record; to customers, suppliers, employees and investors in order to 
differentiate ourselves from the competition and make Silverdell their services partner of choice 
 Developing our product and geographic capability through new service offerings through acquisition and by 
organic growth 
 
 Improving existing client relationships by offering bundled services with unmatched quality 
 
 Continuing to improve systems, cost efficiencies and cash management across the Group. 
 
 
  Silverdell Plc  
 
 
12 
 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
Objectives (continued) 
In order to achieve this we continue our strategic approach to drive improving performance through: 
 
 Further development of our capabilities in regulated environmental and compliance markets other than 
asbestos management 
 Development of our position in the industrial and power generation markets through securing longer-term      
framework contracts 
 Development of our existing customer relationships to generate new business in areas such as specialist 
scaffolding, insulation and specialist coatings, training, consulting and compliance.  
 Increasing our capability in hazardous materials consulting. 
 
Back in June 2010, our Board set the Group a number of challenging targets for the medium-term: 
 
 To grow our order book ahead of organic revenue growth  
 To drive revenue growth year on year ahead of market growth 
 To grow the EBITDA margin to 10%  
 To maintain working capital at not more than one month’s revenue 
 To grow the Consulting business to 15% of Group revenues 
 
I am pleased to report that we are making considerable progress in most of these areas. In particular, recent months 
have seen our order book increase by over 70% against last year while revenues are 6% higher year-on-year. EBITDA 
margins year on year continue to improve, although the step to 10% will require a step change in our volumes to 
reduce the dilutive effect of our fixed overhead. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Silverdell Plc  
 
 
13 
 
 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
What we said What we’ve done The future 
Grow our order book ahead of organic 
revenue growth  
Achieved. Order book has risen 73% 
to £107m (2010: £62m) 
Continue focus on winning high 
margin Consulting and high value 
framework contracts, increasing our 
penetration of the wider Industrial 
Support Services market  
Drive revenue growth year on year 
ahead of market growth 
Achieved. Group turnover increased 
by 5% to £59.7m (2010: £56.7m) 
Accelerate revenue growth to meet 
ambition of £100m within two years 
through organic growth, acquisition 
and international expansion 
Grow the EBITDA* margin to 10% Progress. While EBITDA* increased 
5% to £4.1m (2010: £3.9m) the 
margin remains at 7%  
Continue to focus on order book and 
revenue growth while bearing down on 
costs and seeking cost synergies 
throughout the business 
Maintain working capital at not more 
than one month’s revenue 
This has been challenged by the 
growth that has been experienced. As 
a direct labour employer, anything 
above modest growth requires 
additional working capital. 
We will strive to optimise cash through 
improving terms wherever possible. 
Grow the Consulting business to 15% 
of Group revenues 
Achieved. Consulting now accounts 
for 18% of revenues on a running rate 
basis 
Continue the assimilation of AH Allen 
and RDS into the business and pursuit 
of framework opportunities 
 
*Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation and also before non-recurring costs and share-based payments 
 
Most importantly, Silverdell is a very different Group today than it was two years ago. Then, despite having excellent 
site operations, the Group had considerable debt and profits were at an all-time low. Despite extremely difficult 
market conditions, the Group has been strengthened financially and operationally, renegotiating its facilities and 
securing more funds from the market, completely restructuring its senior management team and driving cultural and 
financial disciplines into the three core divisions whilst ensuring cooperation and cohesion with no loss of 
accountability.  
Two years on, the decisive management actions we have taken have transformed Silverdell into a robust, growing 
business, with stable and flexible financing.  
We have done all this while maintaining our best-in-class operational reputation. Our credibility is now such that we 
increasingly find ourselves competing on a ‘Tier 1’ basis for contracts, in which we contract directly with the end 
customer, where before we might only have been considered as a sub-contractor. 
The successful £2.3m fundraising we undertook in August to fund the acquisition of RDS is testimony to our 
transformation.  
 
 
  Silverdell Plc  
 
 
14 
 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
Acquisitions 
During the year we completed two acquisitions to strengthen our Environmental Consulting offering and, having 
completed the acquisitions, the key to success has been the smooth integration of the businesses into the Group. In 
April we purchased A H Allen Limited (“A H Allen”), based in the North East. The integration plan is going well and 
is on plan. At the end of August 2011 we purchased RDS Asbestos Management Consultants [UK] Limited (“RDS”) 
which will strengthen our presence in the retail sector.  The management teams are working together to ensure its 
smooth integration.  
Both AH Allen and RDS bring additional capacity and considerable expertise to the Group’s Consulting offering. 
Our Consulting team is now over 180 strong, compared to around 100 this time last year, and so we expect both 
acquisitions to be earnings accretive with immediate effect.  
 
Summary and Outlook 
Our “Protecting Lives, Creating Value” strategy has effectively prepared our Group for the next stage of growth. The 
Board is currently developing the plan for the next phase of our Group’s development, which will be unveiled within 
the next six months.  
The last two years has seen the Group recover from a low point to build a stable foundation for growth and start to 
deliver that growth through some significant business wins. The next phase of growth will see the Group increase in 
reputation, revenues and profits to become an established and high quality provider of hazardous industrial services 
with a truly international capability. 
 
Operational Review 
 
  Remediation  Consulting 
  2011  2010  2011  2010 
Public Sector      
 Local Authorities & Housing 12%  11%  14%  20% 
 Defence 21%  17%  9%  11% 
 Health & Education 11%  11%  15%  21% 
  44%  39%  38%  52% 
         
Private Sector        
 Utilities, Power & Industrial 27%  28%  18%  10% 
 Construction 8%  15%  1%  5% 
 Retail, Commercial & Rail 21%  18%  43%  33% 
  56%  61%  62%  48% 
  100%  100%  100%  100% 
 
In 2011 external Remediation revenues rose by 2% to £51.5 m (2010: £50.5m). The revenue base is now increasingly 
made up of long-term framework contracts with resilient repeatable revenues. In particular, in 2010 Remediation 
benefitted from a £3.5m fixed price contract, the loss of which has been more than compensated for by repeatable  
 
 
  Silverdell Plc  
 
 
15 
 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
Operational Review (continued) 
revenues in 2011. Operating margins in this segment were 6.9% in 2011, up from 6.2% in 2010, driven by operating 
cost efficiencies. 
Consulting has had a strong year, boosted in the second half by two acquisitions which have improved both our 
capability and capacity. External Consulting revenues rose by 32% to £8.2m (2010: £6.2m), nearly all of which is 
generated through framework contracts. Profitability also improved as a result of better overhead efficiency, with the 
operating profit* margin increasing by 0.9 ppts to 15.3% (2010: 14.4%). The acquisitions will drive further 
improvements in revenue and profitability in 2012. 
* Excluding amortisation, share-based payments and non-recurring items. 
 
Public Sector 
There is a substantial asbestos legacy across the whole range of public sector property, including local government 
buildings and social housing, schools, colleges and hospitals as well as defence establishments. The public sector 
spend on maintenance and refurbishment projects exceeds £20bn per year and this is driven by regulatory 
requirements.  
Notwithstanding the Coalition Government’s Comprehensive Spending Review in October 2010 and the associated 
freezes or reductions in a number of capital projects, Silverdell has seen public sector revenues rise by 13% during the 
year. The share of total remediation revenues generated by public sector work increased to 44% in 2011 (2010: 39%) 
whilst the share of consulting revenues was 38% (2010: 52%).  
Underlying public sector revenues in Consulting were flat year on year, with the principal elements of organic and 
acquisition growth in Consulting delivering revenues predominantly in the private sectors.    
 
Local Authority and Housing  
2011 has been another year of success in winning local authority and housing framework contracts with the share of 
total Remediation revenues rising to 12% (2010:11%). Towards the end of the year we won a contract to survey and 
remediate 30,000 homes over three years working for a consortium of Registered Social Landlords.  
We continued to win new contracts with social landlords, such as Peabody, as well as several local housing 
authorities. However, with more significant revenue growth in other areas, local authority revenues fell to 14% of our 
total Consulting revenues (2010: 21%).  
Health and Education 
Health and Education comprised 11% (2010: 11%) of our Remediation revenues. Particular success has been 
achieved in working with a major NHS Trust in South Wales. The strength of this relationship, driven by our 
understanding of the customer’s needs, has opened the door to further opportunities with NHS Trusts elsewhere in 
Wales. We are also the incumbent asbestos services provider for a number of Russell Group universities which have 
diverse property portfolios across a wide regional spread. 
Health and Education work made up 15% of Consulting revenues (2010: 21%), with notable work wins with a 
number of Russell Group universities providing survey and management services across their entire university 
estates. 
 
Defence 
The Defence share of revenues for Remediation was 21% (2010:17%). During 2011 we developed excellent 
relationships with the Atomic Weapons Establishment which has seen our work with this customer increase threefold 
in less than two years. Our work with AWE has developed well beyond our traditional asbestos offering and we now 
offer a number of additional services. We have also extended the Regional Prime Contracts relationship for a further 
six years, which is a fantastic success for the Group.  Silverdell Plc  
 
 
16 
 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
Operational Review (continued) 
Consulting defence revenues represented 9% (2010: 11%) of the total, although this represents a slight increase in 
absolute terms. A significant defence customer during the year has been AWE with whom we have successfully 
developed new Consulting opportunities out of the long-standing relationship with the customer. 
 
Private Sector 
Power Generation, Utilities and Industrial 
Power Generation, Utilities and Industrial customers totalled 27% of Remediation segment revenues in 2011 (2010: 
29%). We have leveraged our strong relationship with Magnox to win a share of a £304m framework contract for 
asbestos removal, deplanting and decommissioning at their first generation nuclear power stations, which will serve 
to replace current work at the Chapelcross site as it scales down in 2013.  
In addition to the Magnox framework contract win, we have won a nationwide scaffolding framework contract with 
National Grid which will provide the basis for increased penetration in this attractive sector. We have also completed 
thermal insulation works on a major new-build power station in South Wales during the year and, whilst the final 
account is still under negotiation, management remains confident of a successful outcome. In our Consulting 
business, Power Generation, Utilities and Industrial customers rose to 18% (2010:10%) of total revenues. We 
acquired A H Allen in April 2011 which has a long-standing framework contract with a large water utility in the 
North East. More importantly, however, we have won a significant amount of new business from Remediation 
customers in this sector, such as National Grid and Magnox. 
Construction 
Construction’s share of total Remediation revenues fell in 2011 to 7% (2010:15%). Hard hit by the economic 
downturn, there has been an absence of property development opportunities, especially outside London and the South 
East. The outlook for the Construction sector remains poor, with industry forecasts anticipating no upturn before 
2014.   
Consulting’s construction share of total revenues also fell to 1% (2010: 5%). 
Retail, Commercial and Rail 
This segment comprised 21% (2010:18%) of Remediation revenues and 43% of Consulting revenues (2010: 33%).  
As anticipated, we have seen a number of retail refurbishment projects being undertaken this year and we have 
worked for a number of major high street brands as they have sought to refresh their stores after a two-year period of 
underinvestment. During the year we also won a national framework with Crawfords, a leading loss adjuster, to 
provide insurance-related remediation works and this relationship is responsible for the majority of the increase in this 
work. We operate a nationwide network that offers a 24/7 emergency call-out to both residential and commercial 
properties and combine this responsiveness with a high quality service under a demanding service level agreement.  
During the year we completed works under a Crossrail contract in Central London, with this client also providing 
work for the Consulting division. 
The bulk of the Consulting work in this segment is the provision of survey and management services to a nationwide 
broadcaster. We continue to provide Consulting services to a number of major insurance companies throughout the 
UK and trade strongly with many national well established retailers including opticians, chemists, supermarkets and 
banks. The acquisition of RDS will increase activity in this segment in the future, thanks to its particular focus on the 
retail high street, pubs and clubs. 
 
 
 
 
  Silverdell Plc  
 
 
17 
 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
 
During the past two years Silverdell Plc has been successfully refocused and stabilised; we are now standing on a 
strong platform and are poised for future growth.  
I am very encouraged by recent progress made, winning significant new business, while making two successful 
acquisitions and we look forward to the future with confidence. 
Sean Nutley 
Chief Executive 
