 4 Silverdell Plc
My appointment as Chief Executive Officer has come 
at a time when market conditions have become
increasingly challenging and competitive, which have
impacted this year’s trading performance. I concur with
the Chairman’s comments that 2008 was a difficult year
and re-iterate the belief that the changes made put the
Company in a much stronger position.
Despite this, the Group has an excellent track record
working with a wide range of clients in diverse markets.
These range from construction, rail, public sector, retail,
industrial, nuclear, defence, health and education.
We are committed to developing our strategic focus 
to embrace the growth opportunities within the
environmental sector (both the consultancy and
contracting), to develop our presence in the industrial
sector and to penetrate waste and remediation 
markets further.
Silverdell (UK), Redhill Analysts and Kitsons all have 
a strong presence in their respective markets and
locations. We have continued to develop the number 
of framework contracts we manage to improve the
forward order book. In addition, we remain committed 
to excellence on site to reinforce our status as preferred
contractor among existing clients. New service offerings
have been identified as part of our market and product
development strategies which will further improve the
positioning of the Group.
We will continue to develop each of the businesses
organically. This will be achieved through a balanced
exposure to both public sector and commercial markets
designed to respond to both changing markets and the
economic environment. To deliver this strategy, we will:
■ ensure we work collaboratively with our clients 
so that the quality of service delivery always 
meets expectations
■ develop each business through profitable and
secure income streams;
■ attract, develop and retain employees who add
value to our skills base and service offering; and
■ generate cash to develop our business and improve
gearing levels.
The role of the Board will be to implement our strategy,
ensure the right leadership is in place to deliver agreed
business plans and monitor performance against set
targets. Certain functions will be co-ordinated centrally
including finance, information systems, health and
safety and sales and marketing as we continue to evolve
as a Group in the forthcoming year. We have further
strengthened our management team in respect of
environmental and remediation expertise to realise 
new opportunities through vertical market integration. 
The Chairman’s statement refers to the current financing
position of the Group. From an operational perspective,
the aim for the forthcoming year is to build on the
healthy forward order book, despite an environment 
of economic uncertainty. We have started the new
trading year with confidence and, operationally, are 
well positioned to take advantage of the challenges 
and opportunities during the year.
Sean Nutley
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive’s statement
We will work to develop each of the businesses
through organic growth.
We will generate cash resources to
develop our business and improve
gearing levels.
81733 PRE:81733 PRE  30/3/09  14:19  Page 4
