 Silverdell Plc  
 
 
5 
 
 
 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
Overview 
I am pleased to report encouraging results for the year ended 30 September 2011, especially considering the adverse 
weather earlier in the year and indeed the apprehension surrounding the Government’s expenditure programmes. The 
Group continues to prove its resilience to fluctuating market conditions by maintaining its focus in the regulated 
environment where legislation is a key driver. 
We have successfully achieved our objectives in the year in terms of organic growth and in terms of acquisitions 
achieving market expectations on margin and turnover. Both of the acquisitions, A H Allen and RDS, are being 
successfully integrated into the Consulting business and are already producing positive results. The Group 
successfully raised £2.3m in a share placing during the year, predominantly to fund these acquisitions. 
 
Strategy 
This is the second year of the ‘Protecting Lives, Creating Value’ strategy which aims to deliver shareholder value by 
broadening our service offer and sustaining high quality, repeatable revenues from large, blue-chip customers in the 
regulated and high-hazard service sectors. The Group’s customer base now consists predominantly of large private 
and public sector organisations which place a high value on protecting the health of their customers, staff and 
reputation. While conditions in the wider economy are expected to remain difficult, your Board believes that the 
increasingly stringent regulation surrounding hazardous waste management will require customers to continue to 
prioritise non-discretionary expenditure on facilities maintenance and regulatory compliance. 
Our ambition is to grow revenues to more than £100m per year within two years. It is management’s view that, whilst 
this could possibly be achieved organically, it is most likely to come about through acquisitions and the Board is 
actively exploring some options. Silverdell will only consider acquisitions which meet strict criteria: they will be 
limited to organisations providing services which complement our Group’s current service offer to highly regulated 
industrial sectors such as nuclear, oil, gas and energy, as well as niche bolt-on consulting businesses, and must be 
earnings enhancing within the first year. 
Silverdell has developed into a stable and resilient business. In recognition of this fact, and as a mark of our 
confidence in the future of the Group, we carried out a capital reduction exercise during the year, which enables a 
dividend to be paid for the first time. The Board has determined that it will have a cautious but progressive dividend 
policy and it is our intention to pay our maiden dividend during 2012. 
 
Results 
Revenues for the year ended 30 September 2011 were £59.7m (2010: £56.7m) with adjusted EBITDA* of £4.1m 
(2010: £3.9m) and adjusted pre-tax profit** of £3.0m (2010: £2.5m). The order book at 31 October 2011 remains 
strong at £107m (2010: £62m at 31 October 2010), with £36m secured for 2012. At the year end, the Company’s net 
debt was £5.3m (2010:£4.3m) as the Group required additional capital to support its growth, particularly during the 
second half of the year. 
 
 
Board & People 
We now have a dynamic, cohesive and committed management team, led by our CEO Sean Nutley, who have worked 
extremely hard over the last two years in revitalising the group and ensuring strong ties across each of the three 
principal divisions, whilst maintaining their individual accountability and strict control disciplines. I believe we are 
now in a strong position to take the group forward to its next stage of development. 
In June Matt Griggs took over as MD of the Consulting business Redhills and is successfully overseeing the 
integration of the two new acquisitions. In November 2011, John Potts joined the Group from Hertel to lead our 
industrial services division.  Silverdell Plc  
 
 
6 
 
 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 
 
Board & People (continued) 
We remain a direct employer of our workforce such that their inherent skills are maintained and developed in the 
business providing an excellent basis for the training and development of future management, coupled with the ease 
with which we maintain our licences to operate.  
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express our gratitude and thank the management team and everyone in the 
Group for their hard work, dedication and commitment to our strategy. During during the past year, we have 
continued to deliver a good set of results despite the challenging economic climate around us.  
 
Summary 
Silverdell performed robustly in the year ended 30 September 2011. The Group has delivered significant growth, both 
organically and by acquisition during the year, and particularly during the last six months. We believe that we now 
have a stable, dynamic and flexible business which is very well positioned to deliver further growth and value to our 
shareholders as well as giving us confidence in our ability to pay a dividend during 2012.  
 
Stuart Doughty 
Non-Executive Chairman 
 
 
*Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and also before goodwill impairment, share-based 
payments and non-recurring items 
** Adjusted to exclude intangibles amortisation, impairment charges, non-recurring items and share-based payments
