 18 Silverdell Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
CHIEF ExECUtIvE’S StAt EMEnt
“ We are building a business 
that should be resilient to 
the challenging economic 
conditions but will also be 
well placed to benefit from 
the economic upturn when 
it arrives.” 
 
Sean nutley 
Chief Executive
Overview
Our markets remain competitive, particularly in 
terms of the public sector, but we are confident  
that we are well placed to benefit from ongoing 
changes in the industry with regards to legislation 
surrounding asbestos, and expect growth in the 
private sector to counteract any drop in activity  
in the public sector.
The UK asbestos removal industry is fragmented 
and competition comes from a number of smaller 
licensed operators looking to undercut on price. 
However, Silverdell’s competitive advantage has 
been built on our ability to understand the business 
needs of our customers who are increasingly looking 
for delivery partners with a high level of expertise 
and technical know-how to complete the job safely, 
quickly and effectively.
8981_Silverdell_AR10_Frt_TP 2.indd   18 10/12/10   10:53:02 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
19 Silverdell Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Silverdell’s competitive advantage has been 
developed over many years and is predicated on  
our ability to understand the complex business 
needs of our customers and to develop safe, cost 
effective and innovative solutions to meet their 
business requirements. Our commitment to 
delivering a full-service offering, from premium 
consulting through to construction services and 
remediation, reinforces Silverdell’s position as the 
number one choice for the removal of asbestos  
and other hazardous or notifiable material. 
As a consequence, we typically now contract 
directly with a greater proportion of our blue-chip 
client base. 
There are fewer and fewer companies with the size 
and scale to be able to take on the major jobs and 
which also meet the exacting standards and 
demands of our customers.
We have delivered a good performance, 
consolidating our position as the UK’s pre-eminent 
remover of asbestos and other notifiable waste 
material. We have also continued to build on our 
excellent track record of delivering environmental 
services solutions across a diverse number of 
markets.
Strategic review
We have made significant progress in consolidating 
our position as one of the UK’s leading specialist 
environmental support service companies, by 
building market share and extending our range  
of services and capabilities.
Building on that success, we unveiled in June an 
updated strategy, ‘Protecting Lives, Creating Value’, 
that has been designed for the next stage of our 
corporate development. 
Customers are very often looking for a one-stop 
service partner when it comes to procuring services. 
We therefore differentiate ourselves from the 
competition by striving to provide a premium 
service across a spectrum of complementary 
services, from on site consultancy through to 
construction and remediation.
The split between the public and private sector  
is currently 35% and 65% respectively, which is in 
line with our strategy. Our long list of blue-chip 
customers includes oil majors, a large broadcasting 
organisation as well as large high street retailers  
and banks. 
We will also seek further penetration and 
opportunities in the public sector, which has an 
enormous portfolio of properties to service. While 
we expect the public sector to be affected by the 
recent spending cuts, the detection of asbestos falls 
under non-discretionary spending which means  
it has to be treated with the upmost care. 
‘Protecting Lives, Creating value’
Protecting lives and creating value is central to  
what we are striving to achieve as a Group, with the 
cost of asbestos-related claims expected to exceed 
£11 billion over the next 40 years, providing us  
with considerable opportunities over the long-term. 
Our strategy is to move the business from being  
a leading asbestos removal contractor and 
remediation business to provide high quality 
specialist environmental support services and 
regeneration, and delivering innovative solutions 
which meet our clients’ requirements safely and  
cost effectively.
Back in June the Board set the Group a number  
of challenging targets for the medium-term:
•  To grow our order book ahead of organic  
revenue growth;
•  To drive revenue growth year on year ahead  
of market growth;
•  To grow the EBITDA margin to 10%;
•  To maintain working capital at not more  
than one month’s revenue; and
•  To grow the Consulting business to 15% of  
Group revenues.
About Silverdell
Redhills opens new offices  
in Glasgow and Reading
About asbestos...
Experts predict that we will face  
a mesothelioma epidemic 
between 2011 and 2015 as the 
death toll rises over the next 
decade
8981_Silverdell_AR10_Frt_TP 2.indd   19 10/12/10   10:53:03 20 Silverdell Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
I am pleased to report that we are making 
considerable progress in all of these areas. The 
strategy has been designed to deliver long-term 
profitable growth and build market share in our  
core markets while developing our Consulting and 
Remediation brands in the regulatory, compliance 
and environmental markets, as a premium service. 
This also ensures that our customers, service 
partners, staff, suppliers and investors have peace  
of mind when choosing Silverdell.
In order to achieve this, our strategic approach has 
been to drive performance through:
•  Further development of our capabilities in other 
regulated environmental and compliance markets;
•  Development of our position in industrial and 
power generation markets through longer-term 
framework contracts;
•  Development of our existing customer 
relationships to generate new business, 
particularly in Consulting; and
•  Leveraging of our capabilities in consultancy  
to other areas of the business.
w hy a ‘Duty of Care’?
The ‘Duty of Care’ ethos permeates everything we 
do as a business, from the products and services  
we offer to our clients, right through to the attention 
to detail our dedicated team of operatives give to 
the contracts we undertake.
The ‘Protecting Lives, Creating Value’ strategy  
has been designed to empower and retain the best 
people under a common purpose. By better 
engagement with our employees and customers  
we can create a culture that will bring long-term 
rewards for all of our stakeholders. 
In most cases we are protecting the lives of those 
people that are working within a particular property 
or asset, but importantly we are also working to 
protect the reputation of our customers. 
CHIEF ExECUtIvE’S StAt EMEnt continued
Objectives
For the year ahead, we plan to further strengthen 
the Silverdell business and create shareholder 
value through:
The continued rollout of our ‘Protecting Lives, • 
Creating Value’ strategy internally and externally; 
Developing our product and geographic • 
capability through new service offerings and, 
possibly, through bolt-on acquisitions;
Improving existing client relationships by offering • 
bundled services with unmatched quality; and
Continuing to improve cost efficiencies and  • 
cash management across the Group.
Summary
Our ‘Protecting Lives, Creating Value’ strategy is 
designed to take the company on to the next stage 
of its development. We are building a business that 
should be resilient to the challenging economic 
conditions but will also be well placed to benefit 
from the economic upturn when it arrives.
The economic environment remains challenging  
but, with a strong operational business, a much 
reduced cost base and a strategy for the ongoing 
development of the Group, we are looking to the 
future with confidence.
Strategy
8981_Silverdell_AR10_Frt_TP 2.indd   20 10/12/10   10:53:03 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
21 Silverdell Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
What we said
To grow the order book ahead • 
of organic revenue growth. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To drive revenue growth year • 
on year ahead of market 
growth. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grow EBITDA margins to 10%. • 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maintain working capital  • 
at one month’s revenue. 
 
Grow Consulting revenues  • 
to 15% of Group revenues.
What we’ve done
On track. Despite the • 
economic environment we 
have improved our order book 
since last year. More than 90% 
of our future order book is 
comprised of framework, or 
cost-plus, type relationships 
backed by contracts normally 
between three and five years 
in length. This provides 
greater visibility for the future. 
On track. The UK specialist • 
asbestos market has seen 
further contraction this year 
to approximately £250m  
(from last year’s estimate of 
£300m) primarily as a result  
of retrenchment in property 
development and retail 
refurbishment as well as some 
nervousness within the public 
sector to commit maintenance 
expenditure prior to the 
Spending Review. 
We made good progress here • 
during 2010 with the Group 
EBITDA margin increasing  
to 6.9% (2009: 3.9%). 
 
 
 
We continued to achieve this • 
in 2010. Our focus on cash  
is relentless. 
The Consulting business has • 
been re-shaped and is now 
delivering greater profitability 
with excellent growth 
opportunities. Consulting is 
about 11% of Group revenues.
The future
We retain the capability to • 
carry out large fixed price 
project work. Our strategy  
is to win work in the UK and 
overseas that will underpin 
our long-term growth. This is 
our most challenging strategic 
objective and we remain 
committed to its delivery. 
 
 
The Board believes that the • 
Group is well placed to take 
advantage of a recovery in  
the market and in its ability  
to grow both organically  
and by acquisition. In the 
immediate term, the organic 
growth opportunities within 
the specialist asbestos market 
appear strongest outside  
the UK. 
 
 
In the medium term, Silverdell • 
considers that its current 
overhead structure can 
support a bigger business  
such that improvements at  
the gross profit level will fall 
through to EBITDA. 
Management of cash and • 
working capital will remain  
a strategic priority. 
Our plan for the medium term • 
remains to grow the Consulting 
division both organically and 
by acquisition. 
About Silverdell
Redhills exceed environmental 
targets in 2009
About asbestos...
30,000 people are thought to 
have died of mesothelioma 
already; a further 90,000 are 
expected to die of the disease  
by 2050
8981_Silverdell_AR10_Frt_TP 2.indd   21 10/12/10   10:53:03 22 Silverdell Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Public sector
The public sector is a key part of our portfolio of 
work. There is a substantial asbestos legacy across 
the whole range of public sector property, including 
local government buildings and social housing, 
schools, colleges and hospitals as well as defence 
establishments. The public sector spend on 
maintenance and refurbishment projects exceeds 
£20 billion per year in addition to specific new build 
projects such as ‘Building Schools for the Future’. 
For Silverdell Plc, the share of total remediation 
revenues generated by public sector work increased 
39% in 2010 (2009: 28%) while the share of 
consulting revenues was 52% (2009: 60%).
Local government 
We have been successful in winning a number of 
local government framework contracts although the 
local government and housing share of remediation 
revenues was flat at 11% (2009: 11%). We have 
retained a number of existing contracts and won 
new ones, specifically in Greater Manchester  
where we now work for the central procurement 
consortium. Significant contract works are also 
carried out in North Wales, London, West Midlands 
and Scotland. Our unique offering, which focuses  
on the needs of the customer and the welfare  
of its workforce, has been key to our success in 
winning a 4 year contract with one of the UK’s 
leading procurement consortiums providing housing 
remediation services across the North West. 
With regard to Consulting we have had an excellent 
year winning contracts with a number of social 
landlords as well as local and central government 
agencies, providing annual and bespoke surveys, 
project management as well as analytical services. 
Local government revenues represented 21% of  
our total Consulting revenues in 2010 (2009: 15%). 
Government spending pressure on Registered Social 
Landlords is likely to result in increased spending on 
maintenance and refurbishment, which represent  
a revenue opportunity for both the Remediation 
and Consulting divisions.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CHIEF ExECUtIvE’S StAt EMEnt continued
Consulting 2010
2010 2009
1 Local Government 11% 11%
2 Defence 17% 13%
3 Health & Education 11% 4%
4 Power, Utilities, Industrial 29% 34%
5 Construction 15% 12%
6 Retail, Rail, Commercial 18% 26%
Remediation 2010
1
2
3
4
5
6
1
2
3
4
5
6
2010 2009
1 Local Government 21% 15%
2 Defence 11% 22%
3 Health & Education 21% 23%
4 Power, Utilities, Industrial 10% 6%
5 Construction 5% 4%
6 Retail, Rail, Commercial 33% 30%
8981_Silverdell_AR10_Frt_TP 2.indd   22 10/12/10   10:53:03 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
23 Silverdell Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Health and Education
The share of total remediation revenues from 
Health and Education rose to 11% (2009: 4%). While 
the ‘Building Schools for the Future’ programme has 
been reined in during the year, we anticipate that 
the need to refurbish older school buildings will now 
be required to keep them habitable. Similarly, we 
are working with a number of universities across  
the UK to ensure that their property estate is fit for 
purpose. Our approach, which is focused around 
providing a value-added service that is structured 
directly according to the customer’s needs, means 
that we have continued to develop our customer 
base with a number of new contract wins. We  
have also been involved in significant investments  
to upgrade ageing health facilities, such as the 
Manchester Joint Hospitals project as well as 
winning a 3 year maintenance term contract with  
an NHS Trust in the West of Scotland. We continue 
to work with NHS Trusts across the United Kingdom 
to ensure a safer environment for workers and 
patients. 
For Consulting, Health and Education work made  
up 21% of its revenues (2009: 23%), with key work 
wins in the South, South East and Western regions 
which all secured new healthcare customers.
Defence
The Defence share of revenues for Remediation  
was 17% (2009: 13%) and for Consulting it was  
11% (2009: 22%). The main element of our defence 
operations is the Regional Prime Contracts 
relationship, which is a 7 year framework 
arrangement. Silverdell plc is working with Aspire 
Defence as part of a 35 year plan to develop and 
refurbish much of the MoD estate. Also, under our 
Kitsons brand, we offer specialist environmental 
support to a major nuclear research establishment 
as it seeks to modernise its technical facilities. 
The Consulting segment has also carried out works 
within several key locations for the defence sector 
including its ongoing works on Salisbury Plain and 
also with garrisons in Kent.
Private Sector
Power Generation, Utilities and Industrial
In 2010, 29% (2009: 34%) of Silverdell Plc’s 
Remediation revenues were derived from Power 
Generation, Utilities and Industrial customers.  
Key to this was Kitsons’ role in the construction  
and commissioning of a new power station in the 
South West as well as remediation works at a power 
generation site in Kent as part of a number of 
long-standing relationships within the power, oil  
and gas sector. We have also continued to build on 
our reputation as a key industrial services provider 
to the oil, gas and nuclear industries. During the  
year we have won a prestigious industrial services 
contract at a strategic gas terminal in Wales as  
well as the contract to provide thermal insulation 
services to a palm oil refinery in the North West.
Silverdell Plc is the incumbent provider of asbestos 
removals and industrial scaffolding services at 
Chapelcross Power Station in a collaborative 
decommissioning solution with Magnox North to 
remove more than 3,300 tonnes of asbestos hazard.
With regard to Utilities, the nationwide programme 
to upgrade the utilities infrastructure presents an 
opportunity for Silverdell Plc to develop its service 
offering both through standalone projects and  
as a part of a number of ongoing maintenance 
frameworks with water and gas providers across  
the United Kingdom.
Key industrial clients include manufacturing 
businesses where we have a number of framework 
relationships, including a strategic investment for  
a major pharmaceuticals company in Scotland.
In our Consulting business, Power Generation, 
Utilities and Industrial customers comprised 10% 
(2009: 6%) of revenues. Redhills commenced a new 
2 year framework contract at a nuclear power 
facility in Scotland and continues to work within 
Power Stations across the West. Several national 
utilities contracts are serviced as well as Electricity 
and Water suppliers across the South of England.
About Silverdell
15% of the workforce of Kitsons  
have served over 15 years
About asbestos...
There are 33%  
more deaths from 
mesothelioma than 
from cervical cancer
8981_Silverdell_AR10_Frt_TP 2.indd   23 10/12/10   10:53:03 24 Silverdell Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
BUSINESS REVIEW continued
CHIEF ExECUtIvE’S StAt EMEnt continued
Construction
Construction’s share of total Remediation revenues 
rose in 2010 to 15% (2009: 12%). While the 
Construction sector generally has seen a continued 
slow-down during 2010, Silverdell Plc benefitted 
from a small number of major contracts. A 
significant contribution to this performance was 
works carried out for Shell UK at a landmark building 
in London. We have also carried out fixed price 
works for a major West London hotel during the 
year. Both of these contracts saw the recognition  
by our customers of the benefits of the single source 
solution that Silverdell Plc provides. As a result of 
this, Consulting’s Construction share of revenues 
rose to 5% (2009: 4%).
Retail, Rail, Commercial, Other
For 2010, this sector made up 18% (2009: 26%)  
of Remediation segment revenues and 33%  
(2009: 30%) of the Consulting segment revenues.
Retail store refurbishment forms a key part of our 
Remediation strategy and Silverdell Plc is well 
positioned for a recovery in this market. Similarly, 
we have developed our Consulting offering to our 
Retail customers, winning works with a major 
supermarket retailer during the year. We are 
increasingly working with outsourced Facilities 
Maintenance providers such as Carillion and  
Telereal Trillium to provide a seamless service that 
ensures the customer’s property is maintained to 
the highest standards of asbestos safety with the 
minimum of disruption to their own business.
Our work with key rail operators is a small, but 
highly specialised part of our service offering and 
the commitment of the new Coalition government 
to the delivery of a number of key rail infrastructure 
projects present Silverdell Plc with excellent 
opportunities in both Remediation and Consulting. 
Within Consulting, we have opened a new office  
in Newcastle to support the local rail contract.
Silverdell UK has continued to provide services to  
a number of major insurance companies, conducting 
remediation and Consulting operations following 
accidental damage. Silverdell UK provides a network 
that gives nationwide coverage and offers a 24/7 
emergency call-out to both residential and 
commercial properties. The key to the success of 
this relationship has been excellent responsiveness 
without compromise to our high quality service 
provision.
Within our Consulting business we provide a robust 
consultancy service to a rail system within the  
North East as well as a national contract with a rail 
FM company. We provide consultancy services to  
a number of major insurance companies throughout 
the UK and trade strongly with many national well 
established retailers including opticians, chemists, 
supermarkets and banks.
Sean nutley
Chief Executive
8981_Silverdell_AR10_Frt_TP 2.indd   24 10/12/10   10:53:03
