 Our Business
www.silverdell.plc.uk
Stock code: SID
05
17094 07/12/2009 Proof 6
Chairman’s Statement | Chief Executive’s Business Review
Chief Executive’s Business Review
Strategic Review
During the last 12 months we have seen substantial changes in an 
increasingly challenging and competitive market place. During this 
time, I am pleased to report that the Group’s trading and financial 
performance has continued to improve. We have built on an 
excellent track record in a diverse range of markets by continuing 
to extend our capabilities.
Our strategy in the next year is designed to deliver growth and 
develop market share. This will be achieved by developing our 
capabilities and profile as a Group through our premium Consulting 
and Remediation brands in the regulatory, compliance and 
environmental markets. We will be addressing the contamination 
legacies of the past, particularly in respect of land and buildings, 
providing a clean foundation for future use. The skills, passion and 
expertise of our staff will be key to delivering the ongoing growth of 
our business. 
Our strategic approach will comprise:
n Further development of our capabilities in other regulated 
environmental and compliance markets;
n Development of our position in industrial and power generation 
markets through winning new frameworks and contracts;
n Development of our existing UK office network to improve 
market share;
n Further development of our existing customer relationships to 
generate new business; and 
n Driving more synergies through better internal collaboration.
The Group will seek to increase penetration in the public sector. 
Maintenance and compliance solutions will continue to be required 
for existing property portfolios despite the current economic 
climate. Whilst we expect the public sector to spend less in the 
short term, we will seek to exploit our wider geographic coverage 
to best commercial advantage. 
We are developing stronger links with many trading partners 
based on providing a wider service offering. Our scaffolding 
solutions have the opportunity to expand through the contracting 
arms in particular, and our consulting division broadens trading 
opportunities to include other hazardous materials solutions. Our 
training division, SAFE, is unique in our industry and we are looking 
to create a separate trading entity to maximise this commercial 
opportunity. Deconstruction, demolition and remediation are other 
areas we will seek to develop during the next two years. Land 
remediation and waste stream management capabilities have 
continued to evolve with numerous projects won this year which 
we expect will further evolve in 2009/10.
Our reputation overseas has been enhanced in the last 12 
months with the successful conclusion of our car plant contract 
in Romania and environmental clean up operations for the MoD in 
the Falkland Islands. We have a client list of blue-chip customers 
in the UK and will continue to explore opportunities to sell our 
services overseas, subject to the right risk-return profile.
We have built on an excellent track 
record in a diverse range of markets 
building primarily through organic 
growth. Our strategy in the next year 
is designed to deliver growth and 
develop market share.
17094SILVERDE.indd   05 17094SILVERDE.indd   05 07/12/2009   16:59 07/12/2009   16:59 SILVERDELL PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2009
06
17094 07/12/2009 Proof 6
Chief Executive’s Business Review
Operational Review
Public sector works
The public sector remains a significant part of our portfolio of 
works, recognising that the public sector property portfolio 
will cost the taxpayer some £20bn in 2009. Under the existing 
government’s policies, construction plays a significant role as an 
economic stimulus. For Silverdell Plc, the public sector comprises 
28% (2008: 20%) of our Remediation revenues and 60% 
(2008: 52%) of our Consulting revenues.
Our relationships with local councils continue to develop: the Local 
Government share of our Remediation revenues grew from 9% 
in 2008 to 11% in 2009. Significant framework contracts have 
been retained in Scotland based on technical capability, quality 
assurance, safety and environmental commitment, while new 
contract wins have been recorded in the South East, Midlands, 
North West, Wales and North East. The largest contracts were 
secured through our ability to offer a local value-added service 
complemented by a commitment to quality and safety. These 
contracts provide a continuous requirement for clients with a larger 
property portfolio as part of wider maintenance and refurbishment 
needs. The Billingham Forum refurbishment project was secured 
in the year. We are working alongside the Principal Contractors, 
where the scope of works includes asbestos removal and 
scaffolding. 
The Government’s Decent Homes initiative seeks to ensure social 
housing stock meets a reasonable degree of thermal comfort, is in 
a reasonable state of repair and has reasonably modern facilities. 
Our Asbestos in 
Schools support 
documentation 
was recognised as 
one of the leading 
campaigns in 2008 
by Construction 
News.
REMEDIATION
Turnover by Sector (2009) %
11%
13%
4%
34%
2%
4%
12%
20%
Local Government (inc Housing)
Defence
Health & Education
Power Generation, 
Utilities, Industrial
Retail
Rail
Other Commercial (inc FM)
Construction
Turnover by Sector (2008) %
9%
7%
4%
27%
1%
4%
23%
25%
Local Government (inc Housing)
Defence
Health & Education
Power Generation, 
Utilities, Industrial
Retail
Rail
Other Commercial (inc FM)
Construction
17094SILVERDE.indd   06 17094SILVERDE.indd   06 07/12/2009   16:59 07/12/2009   16:59 Our Business
www.silverdell.plc.uk
Stock code: SID
07
17094 07/12/2009 Proof 6
Chief Executive’s Business Review
The Group has made continued progress in this market as part of 
development requirements from Social Landlords, authorities and 
arm’s-length management organisations. 
With regard to Consulting we are providing solutions for a major 
social housing provider where surveys, project management 
and analytical services are part of an extension to the existing 
framework agreement.
Education
The Building Schools for the Future programme will see every state 
secondary school in England — around 3,500 in total — rebuilt 
or remodelled over the lifetime of the programme. Our Asbestos 
in Schools support documentation was recognised as one of 
the leading campaigns in 2008 by Construction News under the 
Redhills brand. 
Deconstruction, dismantling and asbestos removal solutions have 
been provided to educational establishments and this has been 
widened to include universities throughout the UK. Major works 
have been undertaken in Scotland addressing redundant clasp 
buildings and augmented by ongoing works in the North West. An 
additional framework agreement was secured at Nottingham Trent 
University in the Midlands for a three-year term contract.  
Health
Procure 21 and the Private Finance Initiative (“PFI”) are two 
development schemes used by the NHS for updating existing 
infrastructure and building new facilities. The Procure 21 
Picture : Development works at Manchester Joint Hospitals.
framework has had over £3.6bn of work registered, while 
PFI provides a capital efficient way of funding major capital 
investments. During the year, the Group has been working 
extensively on the Manchester Joint Hospitals, the single largest 
healthcare investment in Manchester. The main building will be 
the central hub of the new development containing the main 
clinical facilities for the Children’s Hospital together with the new 
infrastructure for the Manchester Royal Eye Hospital, St Mary’s 
Hospital and Manchester Royal Infirmary. 
The Group has contributed to numerous Procure 21 projects 
nationally. The Oxford Radcliffe Hospital project with a value of 
£1.6m has been delivered as part of the wider demolition package 
solution. Prince Charles Hospital is another project we have 
been involved in. This project has a value of around £1.6m over 
the six phases. The works will improve and decontaminate the 
buildings whilst the hospital remains operational. Redhills provided 
consultancy services to various NHS Trusts. 
CONSULTING
Turnover by Sector (2009) %
15%
22%
23%
6%
0%
12%
4%
18%
Local Government (inc Housing)
Defence
Health & Education
Power Generation, 
Utilities, Industrial
Retail 
Rail
Other Commercial (inc FM)
Construction
Turnover by Sector (2008) %
19%
9%
24%
11%
0%
4%
11%
22%
Local Government (inc Housing)
Defence
Health & Education
Power Generation, 
Utilities, Industrial
Retail
Rail
Other Commercial (inc FM)
Construction
17094SILVERDE.indd   07 17094SILVERDE.indd   07 07/12/2009   16:59 07/12/2009   16:59 SILVERDELL PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2009
08
17094 07/12/2009 Proof 6
Chief Executive’s Business Review
Operational Review
Regional Prime Contracting in Defence
Project Allenby/Connaught, the largest infrastructure Private 
Finance Initiative project ever let by the Ministry of Defence, 
has one simple mission – to make life better for nearly 19,000 
soldiers by providing modern, high quality, fully serviced, 
purpose-built living and working accommodation. Aspire 
Defence, a Joint Venture between Carillion and Kelly Brown 
Root (“KBR”), was awarded the contract and is working 
in partnership with the MoD. The £12bn, 35 year contract 
encompasses an eight year construction programme and 
involves the new build or refurbishment of 541 buildings and 
the demolition of 447 buildings. 11,500 refurbished and new 
accommodation units will be complemented by shops, cafes, 
bars and sports facilities.
Silverdell is the appointed supply chain partner to Aspire 
Defence to meet their service delivery specification. Silverdell 
has been undertaking asbestos removal works located in a 
number of buildings. All staff are appropriately security cleared 
to work on such sites. The detailed method statements not 
only have to address the issues of asbestos and Construction 
Design Management, but other implications such as transit 
routes for waste materials affected by occupied buildings and 
protecting wildlife habitats.
The client has high expectations in terms of service 
delivery, efficiency, price, innovation and to the meeting of 
agreed timescales. Performance is rewarded and quality of 
communication has been critical to success to date. The 
works are carried out by a core team which is increased 
according to planned work schedules to respond to the 
exact requirements of the client. 
Aspire Defence hold annual ‘Safety First Always’ awards 
and during the summer Silverdell was awarded the quarterly 
Trade Contractor Award. Michael Ward, Works Director at 
Aspire Defence, said: “Silverdell’s contribution to safety and 
the environment is invaluable to our ‘Safety First Always’ 
campaign and all it sets out to achieve. Silverdell has 
achieved a consistently high performance throughout the 
second quarter as Trade Contractor Winners.” Consulting 
support has been provided through Redhills also. 
Case Study
Defence
Silverdell has been appointed for additional capital works 
programmes as our defence works continue to go from strength 
to strength, with Remediation revenues from this sector rising from 
7% in 2008 to 13% this year. The Regional Prime contracts within 
which we operate are essentially seven year frameworks, providing 
a consistent link for specialist contractors to work within on a 
collaborative basis.
Our nuclear expertise within Kitsons has assisted in adding value 
to our safety case and operational credentials as we continue 
to raise our profile in this sector. Within the Nuclear sector, we 
have been supporting our client’s successful implementation 
of modernisation and development at a major research 
establishment which will provide specialist research in laser 
physics, hydrodynamics, materials science and high performance 
computing.
We have delivered environmental cleans and remediation works on 
a number of military ships during the year as part of their ongoing 
refurbishments or decommissioning. Consulting services to the 
Defence sector have generated over £1m in consulting services 
this year as the Defence share of Consulting revenues rose to 22% 
(2008: 19%).
Power Generation, Utilities and Industrial
Power generation
Ensuring the future energy supply is one of the key issues facing 
the UK today, with a forecasted “energy gap” likely to materialise 
between 2016 and 2022. Langage Power station is a new £400m 
power plant being constructed, consisting of both gas and steam 
turbines. Through our Kitsons brand, we have been a major 
contractor in providing insulation to the pipework within the plant, 
employing an estimated 70 personnel with a value of works in 
excess of £2.0m. The Power Generation, Utilities and Industrial 
sector share of Remediation revenues rose to 34% in 2009 (2008: 
27%) becoming the most significant part of our Remediation 
business. For Consulting, this Sector’s share of revenues fell from 
11% in 2008 to 6% in 2009 as the Public sector share increased.
Nuclear decommissioning
Nuclear waste has been managed safely in this country for over 
60 years. The UK will need a diverse energy supply in the future 
that includes nuclear as well as renewable energy, necessitating 
effective management of nuclear waste. 
Asbestos removal and scaffolding solutions on the world’s second 
largest asbestos project at Chapelcross Power Station continue 
as part of a wider decommissioning project. Scaffolding services 
to the nuclear sector have developed this year using a complex 
engineered design of supports and fixings. Asbestos removal 
works are continuing as part of this major decommissioning 
project. 
Picture: Courtesy of the MoD.
17094SILVERDE.indd   08 17094SILVERDE.indd   08 07/12/2009   16:59 07/12/2009   16:59 Our Business
www.silverdell.plc.uk
Stock code: SID
09
17094 07/12/2009 Proof 6
Chief Executive’s Business Review
Chapelcross
The Chapelcross asbestos projects are a seven year 
programme of works designed to protect the workforce 
from potential asbestos exposure and ultimately, to remove 
the 3,300 tonnes of asbestos hazard in and around 
numerous plant areas on site, a major step towards the 
final decommissioning of the site as part of the Nuclear 
Decommissioning Authority’s long term agenda. Magnox 
commissioned two elements of work following a lengthy 
and detailed procurement process – weather containment 
and asbestos removal. The Chapelcross asbestos removal 
contract is the largest in Europe, and the second largest in 
the world.
These projects have required a close partnership between 
Magnox North, which leads the decommissioning activities 
on site, and Kitsons. Working together over the last two 
years and utilising the NEC 3 contract philosophy of 
collaboration, Magnox and Kitsons have developed the 
most time and cost efficient solution to remove this major 
hazard from the site. Effective communication between 
partner contractors and stakeholders has been critical to 
stimulate innovation and trust whilst achieving maximum 
value for money. 
A single design team was formed, combining forward-
thinking and expertise from both companies to turn the 
conceptual design into a workable reality. This approach 
worked extremely well, with the final design acting as the 
basis for both long-term weather containment and asbestos 
removal contracts. It was, in effect, a dual design, reducing 
re-works and allowing asbestos to be stripped from an 
active nuclear safety circuit with zero impact on the plant. 
This culture of innovation continues to be encouraged 
within the project, with all ideas considered from Magnox 
or Kitsons in an open forum. This is managed on the 
site with daily, weekly and monthly meetings involving 
all levels of the project delivery team. We recognise the 
need for consistency in information flow, the importance 
of accountability, and the customer’s desire for responsive 
services. 
Case Study
Utilities
An ageing infrastructure, more stringent regulations, increasing 
energy costs and a growing population mean that the utilities 
market has many challenges in the provision of electricity, water 
and gas. We support works under the Asset Management 
programmes delivered throughout the UK on both a standalone 
project basis and as part of ongoing maintenance frameworks. 
We have been working at one sub-station providing solutions for 
remediation and cleaning contaminated waste as enabling works. 
Working for the Principal Contractor, the removal of contaminated 
soil as part of a large ground-works exercise is being undertaken, 
which can then be clean backfilled with hardcore to enable the 
erection of the GIS Building. A separate contract involves the 
excavation and removal of asbestos contaminated soil to facilitate 
the cable runs for the sub-station. Excavators and 20 yard open 
skips are being used as part of a wide portfolio of plant in-works 
that are likely to run until late 2009 with an estimated value of 
£1.8m in total.
Industrial
Remediation spend in the industrial sector remains relatively 
consistent due to the ongoing maintenance requirements 
of infrastructure. A three-year framework for scaffolding, 
thermal insulation and painting has been secured at a major 
pharmaceutical production facility in Scotland where maintenance 
requirements are increasing as our client has committed further 
investment into a site that forms a key part of its global supply 
network strategy. 
Pictured: Paul John receiving the trade contractor award 
at Aspire Defence.
17094SILVERDE.indd   09 17094SILVERDE.indd   09 07/12/2009   16:59 07/12/2009   16:59 SILVERDELL PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2009
10
17094 07/12/2009 Proof 6
Chief Executive’s Business Review
Operational Review
Major financial services Plc
In the past financial year and after completing a detailed due 
diligence exercise, Redhills has successfully commenced 
an asbestos consultancy framework contract with a major 
financial services group, which has one of the largest 
banking property portfolios in the UK. 
Our client’s work streams, like its property portfolio, are 
varied and provide the business with a diverse range 
of projects driven by capital expenditure and planned 
maintenance requirements. Whilst the financial services 
sector in the current macro-economic climate faces its 
challenges, our client continues to upgrade its facilities 
and property infrastructure. Redhills has been successfully 
integrating with the client’s own project teams working 
on both the corporate estate and branch network, 
demonstrating a high level of service, quality and bespoke 
project expertise that has enabled projects to run smoothly, 
on time and to budget. 
During 2009, our client has undertaken a significant 
refurbishment project at the headquarters of a key 
subsidiary where Redhills successfully managed the unique 
risks of the site, making a real difference to the operational 
delivery for the rest of the project. Driven by the will to 
succeed, Redhills is entirely focused on exceeding the 
project requirements.
Through our commitment to higher standards and delivery 
in line with agreed Key Performance Indicators, Redhills is 
becoming a key facilities management partner and asbestos 
consultant of choice. 
Case Study
Construction
The construction industry has seen challenging times in recent 
months and this is reflected in this sector’s declining share of 
revenues, comprising 12% (2008: 23%) of Remediation revenues 
and 4% of Consulting (2008: 11%). A prestigious Central London 
Hotel project has been successfully completed where asbestos 
removal works were key elements to the enabling works at this 
hotel which is currently undergoing a major refurbishment. The 
contract was worth £4.5m over 2 years and has led to Silverdell’s 
successful appointment at a neighbouring prestigious London 
landmark venue to a contract worth more than £1m.
Retail
Despite the recent economic downturn, we have maintained a 
strong position in the market to secure projects with the leading 
high street brands, the largest being a major store refurbishment 
in Liverpool which has a value in excess of £1m with works 
undertaken whilst the premises remained open for trade. The 
demise of a number of significant retail chains has provided 
new opportunities in the high street as sites are acquired and 
refurbished.
From a consulting perspective, ongoing trading relationships within 
the traditional high street brands continue to flourish. Consultancy 
works for a major supermarket retailer were commissioned with a 
value of more than £0.1m.
Insurance
We have been working to support insurance providers in removing 
asbestos from properties following accidental damage. Silverdell 
provides a network of national coverage providing consultancy 
services 24 hours a day for residential and commercial properties. 
Consistency of high quality service provision and the ability to react 
has been the key to our success. 
Rail
During the year we have contracted with both the London 
Underground and Network Rail, working on trackside 
environments and station refurbishment programmes. Our 
Consulting division achieved successful entry to this market, and 
secured a four-year analytical framework contract in Tyneside.
Overseas
In addition to our clean-up work in the Falklands Islands, Silverdell 
(UK) completed works in Romania on a major manufacturing 
plant during its redevelopment to build new vehicles for UK and 
European markets. In line with our strategy, we will continue to bid 
for significant contracts in Continental Europe.
Sean Nutley
Chief Executive
30 November 2009
17094SILVERDE.indd   10 17094SILVERDE.indd   10 07/12/2009   16:59 07/12/2009   16:59
