 I am pleased to report the results for the year 
ended 30 September 2007.
In a year of highly satisfactory progress, the group
recorded a profit before tax of £2.2m on turnover 
of £38.5m. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation,
amortisation and share based payment charge 
were £5.1m.
Basic earnings per ordinary share were 2.4 pence and
adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share (based on
profit after tax adjusted for goodwill amortisation, share
based payments and finance charges on deferred
consideration) were 7.9 pence per ordinary share.
The directors do not recommend the payment 
of a dividend.
Following the acquisition of Redhill Analysts Limited,
Kitsons Group Limited and Swift (Asbestos) Holdings
Limited, the Company has achieved its initial strategic
goal: the nationwide provision of the full range of
asbestos services under three leading brands.
We are indebted to each and every group employee, 
all of whom have worked incredibly hard during our first
full year as a listed company. The work ethic instilled by
the senior management has been a major factor in our
success, aided by our ability to grant share options to
key staff as an additional incentive.
We have also strengthened the board during the year
and welcomed Chris Sims as Group Finance Director.
Chris was previously Finance Director of Brandon Hire
PLC and brings valuable experience in group reporting
and integration, investor relations, and mergers and
acquisitions. We are very appreciative of the efforts of
Simon Gunn who had been handling the group finance
function until Chris’s appointment; Simon continues as
Finance Director of Silverdell (UK) Limited.
We also appreciate the support shown by our
shareholders who have seen our share price double
since the original acquisition, Silverdell (UK) Limited, 
in July 2006.
12
Chairman’s Statement
73888 PRE  9/1/08  12:00  Page 12 13
Outlook
Trading in the first two months of the current
financial year has been satisfactory and are
confident of our prospects and see plenty of
potential ahead for the further development
of our company.
David Williams
Non-Executive Chairman
73888 PRE  9/1/08  16:46  Page 13
