 4
OVERVIEW
Sinclair has made major progress in the last year
in its mission to become a leading specialty
pharmaceutical company. The six regulatory
approvals in the period and 34 licence deals
confirm Sinclair’s regulatory and commercial
expertise. Sinclair’s risk averse strategy,
implemented at the time of the management
buy-in, in 2000, has proved to be successful. In
only five years Sinclair has rapidly acquired and
integrated four acquisitions and obtained the
approval for 13 new products in the EU and 9 in
the US. It has licensing agreements in place for
ten of these products. As these partners have
commenced launching in their territories, our
revenues from sales have increased accordingly.
In short, Sinclair has achieved a solid platform of
approved products, licensing partners and a
pipeline of interesting future products which
enable it to anticipate future sustainable growth
and profitability with confidence.
Strategy
Sinclair is a rapidly growing specialty
pharmaceutical business developing a strong
portfolio of niche pharmaceutical products in
dermatology and oral health. We manage risk by
avoiding the heavy cost and long time frames
associated with traditional R&D. Instead, we
deploy our expertise in identifying and acquiring
those products that have hit hurdles
(developmental or regulatory) in the latter stages
of their development. We have a proven ability to
overcome such hurdles and are achieving strong
regulatory success. We now have 13 products
approved in the EU and 9 in the US. The next
step in our strategy is to acquire our own
marketing infrastructure in selected markets,
enabling us to retain greater control over our
products and higher margins. The first such step
in this strategy was the acquisition of Euroderm
in Italy in January 2005.
Regulatory Progress for Financial Year
30 June 2005
Regulatory progress in the past year has
continued to be strong. Since July 2004, we
have achieved three new US registrations and
three in the EU. This year both Aloclair® Gel and
Aloclair® Spray, for the treatment of mouth
ulcers and oral lesions, received US Food & Drug
Administration (FDA) approval as medical
devices. These were followed by FDA approval
for our novel mouth rinse Decapinol® for the
treatment of gingivitis. In the EU we received
regulatory approval (as medical devices) for,
Decapinol®, Alogon™ our Aloclair® line
extension for the relief of pharyngitis (sore throat)
and lastly for Sebclair™ our product for
seborrheic dermatitis.
Licensing Progress for Financial Year
30 June 2005
Early product approval has facilitated the
establishment of numerous licensing
agreements. Since we operate in niche markets,
it is our strategy to look for the most suitable
licensing partners who we believe will expedite
the launch of our products. Over the last year we
have concluded thirty-four agreements covering
eight products. The most significant of these
products include Atopiclair™, our treatment for
atopic and contact dermatitis, and Decapinol®
as well as the three Aloclair® presentations.
Aloclair® is presently Sinclair’s largest selling
product and is now licensed to partners covering
more than 50 countries.
Chief Executive’s Review
“In only five years
Sinclair has rapidly
acquired and
integrated four
acquisitions and
obtained the approval
for 13 new products in
the EU and 9 in the US.
It has licensing
agreements in place
for ten of these
products. In short,
Sinclair has achieved a
solid platform of
approved products,
licensing partners and
a pipeline of
interesting future
products which enable
it to anticipate future
sustainable growth and
profitability with
confidence.” 5
PRODUCT AREAS
Oral Health
Aloclair® Rinse, Gel & Spray & Gelclair™ for
mouth ulcers and oral lesions
Aloclair® is currently Sinclair’s largest product in
terms of sales and distribution. Sales of Aloclair®
to distributors were slightly lower than last year
due to scheduling of purchase orders in the
previous year. However, retail sales continue to
increase and with the growing geographical
spread of markets covered, Aloclair® will
continue to be an important revenue contributor.
Aloclair® has three presentations (an oral rinse
solution, an oral gel and an oral spray). With the
Gel and Spray US approvals this year, all three
Aloclair® presentations now have regulatory
approval in the US allowing them to be sold over
the counter (OTC). TNS market research
conducted for Sinclair indicates that 16% of the
adult population get an oral ulcer over a 12
month period and 64% of that population seek
pain relief with a medication. That research
translates to a user base of over 100 million
adults in both the EU and US where all three
Aloclair® delivery systems are now approved.
The global mouth ulcers market is estimated to
be worth more than $1 billion per annum.
Fifteen distribution agreements for Aloclair®
products (including extensions of existing
agreements) were signed in the past fiscal year.
The Sunstar Butler Group in particular has
significantly increased its Aloclair® (Rincinol® in
the US) distribution agreements over the past
four years and they now cover 23 countries in the
EU and North America.
This year, our Italian distributor Recordati
confirmed that it will be selling all three Aloclair®
products in Italy under the trade name of
‘Alovex’. Also, our licensee in Hungary, Vicis
Pharma Co, extended their existing agreement
for Aloclair® Rinse and Gel to include Spray.
Further afield we have signed up three more
licensees for Aloclair® Rinse. We licensed the
Turkish company SSM for the distribution of
Aloclair® Rinse in that country and have also
signed up Pharmbio Korea and Meditech Int. Pty
of Australia for distribution of Aloclair® Rinse in
those countries.
This year the EU patent for Aloclair® Rinse and
Gelclair™ was granted. Gelclair™ is Sinclair’s
product for the relief of severe oral ulceration and
inflammation from various causes (mucositis).
Sinclair was also advised this year that the US
patent for Aloclair® Rinse and Gelclair™ had been
granted. This triggered a US$500,000 milestone
payment under our existing worldwide distribution
agreement with Helsinn Healthcare S.A.
A further testimony to the effectiveness of
Aloclair® was the news that our UK licensee,
Forest Labs, had secured accreditation for
Aloclair® Rinse from the UK Dental Health
Foundation. Aloclair® Rinse is the first product to
receive such accreditation for the pain relief of
mouth ulcers in the UK and the accreditation
provides a significant independent validation of
Aloclair® Rinse’s efficacy.
Alogon™ for painful throat conditions such
as pharyngitis
Based on the same technology as Aloclair® and
Gelclair™, Alogon™ is Sinclair’s new product for
painful throat conditions such as pharyngitis. In
Q2 it received EU approval as an OTC medical
device.
The product is presented in the form of a liquid
gargle but is also being developed as a tablet and
spray. The registration of Alogon™ as a medical
device in the EU was achieved significantly earlier 6
than anticipated and Sinclair has now also filed
for US 510(k) registration for the product.
Decapinol® for gingivitis
Decapinol® is a new oral rinse product for the
treatment of gingivitis which we believe to have
significant potential. Decapinol® received
regulatory approval as a medical device in both
the US and the EU during the financial year.
License agreements were put in place in three
markets. Following EU approval for Decapinol®
at the commencement of the financial year we
appointed Dompé International S.A as our
distributor in Italy and they launched Decapinol®
in June 2005 utilising their 228 strong sales force.
In March 2005 Laboratorios Inibsa SA was
appointed as our distributor in Spain. Inibsa
promotes the Oralex brand of toothbrush,
toothpaste and mouthwash products to dentists
in Spain and has a staff of 300, 42% of whom are
employed in sales and marketing. Inibsa expect
to launch Decapinol® in Spain in the coming
months.
Decapinol® has been clinically proven in tests
with over 2,000 patients. Decapinol® acts by
interfering with the attachment of bacteria to the
teeth and gum surfaces, in contrast to
antiseptics and antibiotics such as chlorhexidine,
which tend to kill all oral bacteria and adversely
affect the natural balance of oral bacteria. Sinclair
believes that Decapinol® is the first new
chemical entity for gingivitis for the past 30 years
and that it has the potential to grow the existing
market since it is well tolerated compared to
existing treatments. We are developing a range
of new Decapinol® products such as toothpaste
as announced at our R&D presentation to
analysts and investors. The combined market for
all mouthwashes and toothpastes is estimated to
be worth $12.5 billion of which $10.5 billion is
toothpastes. The market for specific gingivitis
products is currently estimated to be worth
£1.5 billion.
Sinclair is actively engaged in licensing
discussions for Decapinol® in the US and the
remainder of Europe and hopes to reach
agreement in the major territories over the course
of this financial year.
SST™ & Salinum™ for dry mouth syndrome
(“xerostomia”)
Sales for our dry mouth products at £153k
(2003/4 £175k) were down 13% on last year. We
expect growth again in this financial year with the
anticipated US launch but, as our revenues
increase, these products are likely to represent a
decreasing proportion of our future revenues.
Both products already have regulatory approval
in the EU and the US. Just before the year-end
Salinum™ and SST™ agreements were signed
for the US with Align Pharmaceuticals and with
Bio Pharma for Colombia. During the year
distribution agreements for Salinum™ were also
signed in the UK with JJS Pharma Ltd, in
Germany with ORCA Pharm and in Austria with
Novopharm Bio. In addition at the end of May an
agreement for SST™ was concluded with
Medifocus Co. Ltd. of Korea.
Xerostomia occurs when the salivary glands’
functions are partially or in extreme cases totally
impaired. This may occur in a variety of
circumstances including, old age, auto immune
disease, a large number of drugs, and surgery or
radiation therapy to the head and neck.
Xclair™ for radiation dermatitis
Xclair™ is at the start of its commercial life and
was introduced in the first markets during the
year and achieved sales of £208k. Based on the
same technology as Atopiclair™, this product is
for the treatment of radiation dermatitis which is
an inflammatory condition of the skin afflicting
patients receiving radiotherapy for cancer. 7
Xclair™ has previously received regulatory
approval in both the EU and US. Progress on this
product was evidenced by five new distribution
agreements for Xclair™ over the year, in the US,
UK, Germany, South Korea and Colombia.
Dermatology
Atopiclair™ for atopic and contact
dermatitis
Atopiclair™, the first prescription medical device
authorised by the US FDA to relieve the symptoms
of atopic dermatitis and allergic contact dermatitis,
was launched in the US in June.
An important treatment aim in atopic dermatitis is
to reduce and control the itch associated with the
disease. Proof of its efficacy was reinforced by
the announcement in June of a positive US
multicentre double blind trial in atopic dermatitis
showing very rapid and highly significant clinical
improvement.
During the year, Atopiclair™ was licensed in the
US to Chester Valley Pharmaceuticals Inc (CVP).
CVP is a well financed specialty dermatology
company, headed by two highly experienced and
respected pharma executives each with a
significant track record in commercialising
dermatology products. The dramatic reductions
in itch, as well as other results from the recent US
study, lead to CVP’s belief that Atopiclair™ will be
welcomed by physicians and patients in the US.
Although only launched by CVP in June in the
US, Atopiclair™ sales have got off to an
encouraging start. The launch of this key product
also triggered a £1.6 million license fee and
milestone payment.
In the second half, a further three distribution
agreements were put in place for Atopiclair™ in
Portugal, Indonesia and Israel.
Sebclair™ for seborrheic dermatitis
Sebclair™ received EU regulatory approval as a
Class 2a medical device for prescription or OTC
distribution in April 2005. Discussions continue
with the FDA and a response is expected in the
current financial year.
Post period we appointed Chester Valley
Pharmaceuticals Inc as our US licensee. We are
actively seeking distribution partners for this
promising product in other territories and we
anticipate the first sales of Sebclair™ during the
current financial year.
Seborrheic dermatitis is a common skin condition
characterised by red, flaky skin. It is estimated to
occur in 3-5% of the general population. It is
common in young adult men, and in the under-
5s, where it may manifest as ‘cradle cap’.
Sebclair™ addresses a market worth more than
$500 million.
Product Pipeline
As revealed in our R&D day in June, Sinclair has
a growing product pipeline behind the portfolio of
approved drugs and devices. Of these, the most
exciting compounds include Decapinol®
Toothpaste. Decapinol® Gel (both now approved
in the EU). Decapinol® Toothpaste has the
potential to take the Decapinol® range of
products beyond the US $2 billion mouthwash
market into the US$10 billion toothpaste
marketplace. The introduction of our pipeline
products for psoriasis and acne represent a step
into this further multi-billion dollar market.
Acquisition of Euroderm
On 31 January we completed the acquisition of
Euroderm, a privately-owned dermatology
business. This deal increases Sinclair’s product
portfolio and during the last 5 months of the
financial year Euroderm contributed £1.07m to
overall revenues. Euroderm has its own sales
“Our experience, from
clinical  trials and from
anecdotal reports
evidencing that
Atopiclair™ is effective
in reducing the itch,
the severity and the
extent of eczema
lesions and the rapid
onset of action and
very good tolerance
seen in this trial, has
us very optimistic
about the success of
the product as soon as
it hits the market.”
(Dr. William Abramovits, independent principal investigator,
multicenter Atopiclair
TM
study performed in the US.) 8
force in Italy giving us greater control over our
products and improved margins. Following
completion, the company was renamed Sinclair
Srl.
Our success in registering new products ahead
of expectations has meant that we have been
able to accelerate our strategy to move down the
distribution chain and gain higher margins for our
products. We will now be able to market our
growing portfolio of approved products directly in
Italy. In addition, by acquiring a cash generative
company that has capacity for further products
we will not incur cash costs in setting up our own
sales force in Italy. We intend to continue this
strategy across the major territories in Europe.
Management
We strengthened our senior management this
year with the appointment of Derek Williams as
COO of our main operating company and Mario
di Majo as head of our newly acquired company
Sinclair Srl. Derek joined Sinclair from Celltech
where he was most recently European
Commercial Director, overseeing the
restructuring of commercial operations and the
establishment of a Europe-wide secondary care
capability. Derek’s primary role will be to lead
Sinclair’s expansion of its own sales and
marketing capability across Europe and into
North America as more of the products in the
company’s pipeline come to market. Mario was
for the past ten years with Teva Pharma Italia,
latterly as Hospital Business Unit Director. Paul
Phull, previously Vice-President of Business
Development was appointed as Business
Development director of the operating company.
At the beginning of the year the Board was
strengthened by the appointment of Grahame
Cook as non-executive director. Grahame, aged
47, has over 18 years experience in investment
banking advising on a wide range of M&A and
Capital Market transactions in the US and
Europe.
Post Period
Since the year end, Sinclair has received two EU
regulatory approvals, struck seven new licensing
deals covering six products and launched
Atopiclair™ in the EU.
In early July both our Decapinol® line extensions
Decapinol® Toothpaste (a toothpaste for treating
gingivitis) and Decapinol® Gel (a product for the
intensive professional treatment of gum
infections) had obtained EU registration approval.
These products are based on the technology
behind Decapinol® and the registrations
significantly increase the addressable market for
Decapinol®. Licensing agreements signed post
period include agreements with Anabiosis
Limited in Greece for the distribution of
Salinum™ and Xclair™. Our US distributor for
Atopiclair™ has also taken Sebclair™ in the US.
Adding to their existing agreements, Sunstar
Butler’s Mexican company John O. Butler
(Mexico) has signed distribution agreements for
all three Aloclair® presentations while Pharmbio
Korea Ltd has become our distributor for
Decapinol® in South Korea. We have also
launched Atopiclair™ in Italy through Sinclair Srl
(formerly Euroderm). This is Sinclair’s first product
launch through our own sales force and
represents a significant step in the evolution of
the Company’s distribution strategy which, up to
now, has been to appoint licensing partners to
commercialise its products.
In early September, the Company announced the
appointment of Piper Jaffray Ltd. as nominated
adviser in place of Roberts Baird Limited and as
joint broker. In addition, the Company
announced the appointment of Nomura
International plc as joint broker. Piper Jaffray Ltd.
and Nomura International plc will act alongside
“Our ongoing
programme is to find
and develop new
products via
acquisitions and from
technology platforms
already acquired and
to strengthen our
product portfolio with
patented products
backed by clinical trial
programmes.” 9
Robert W. Baird Ltd who will remain in their
existing role as broker.
Atopiclair™
Sinclair announced in October that it’s wholly
owned Italian subsidiary Sinclair Srl (formerly
Euroderm) has signed a one year co-promotion
deal in Italy for Atopiclair™ with the Madaus
Group’s Italian subsidiary, Madaus Srl (Madaus).
The Madaus Group focuses on development,
marketing and sales of pharmaceutical products.
Madaus will promote the product to the Italian
paediatric market.
Decapinol®
Sinclair also announced that it signed an
agreement with Pharmbio Korea Co Ltd in South
Korea for the distribution of Decapinol®, its novel
oral rinse for the treatment of gingivitis (gum
inflammation).
In the US, the Food & Drug Administration (FDA)
approved Decapinol® earlier this year as a
medical device which may be sold on prescription.
Following further discussions, the FDA have
agreed to an important change to the labelling of
the product to include prevention of plaque.
Sinclair sees the revised labelling as an important
advance and one that will assist in establishing the
platform for Decapinol®. In the US approximately
80 per cent of the adult population are estimated
to have some degree of gum inflammation,
resulting in a US prescription market for
mouthwashes that may exceed US$100 million
1
.
OTC mouthwash brands contribute to a several
fold larger total market. We believe that
Decapinol® has the potential to become a viable
contender in this market since clinical trials have
proved Decapinol® to be well tolerated and
effective with clear unique advantages.
Outlook
Since our flotation in December 2003, we have
successfully advanced our business model. The
acquisition of Euroderm allows us to sell a
number of our registered products directly in Italy
and is the first step in Sinclair building a
European direct sales force for its expanding
derma portfolio. Through this we intend to share
in the much larger margins available to
distributors. It should be recalled that since our
original management buy-in in 2000, we have
successfully integrated three other acquisitions
which have helped us to grow our product
portfolio and technology platforms. We plan to
make similar acquisitions in other key markets as
the Company grows.
Our ongoing programme therefore is to find and
develop new products via acquisitions and from
technology platforms already acquired and to
strengthen our product portfolio with patented
products backed by clinical trial programmes.
We also expect to see further clinical trial results
together with product registrations, licensing
deals and launches over the next twelve months.
We now have behind us very significant
regulatory successes with 13 product
registrations in the EU and 9 in the US. We have
established sales and marketing agreements in
more than 50 countries which have resulted in a
growing number of international distributors now
beginning to launch our products in key markets.
After a year when the Company met or exceeded
the market expectations we believe we have
established a solid base from which we can
confidently anticipate increasing revenue growth
through product sales and increased momentum
towards profitability.
Dr MJ Flynn
Chief Executive Officer
1“Anti-gingivitis markets”, a summary of the gingivitis market.
Datamonitor, October 2004
