 3
With the regulatory and commercial progress
made this year, Sinclair is a materially stronger
business than it was last year. 3 EU and 3 US
product approvals and 34 licensing deals were
struck during the financial year. Revenues
increased by 174% to £7.0m (2004: £2.5m) on
continuing operations.
In the last five years, Sinclair has obtained
regulatory approval in the EU for thirteen of its
products (two post period) and for nine of these
in the US. It has furthermore achieved the
licensing of a total of 10 of these approved
products to partners in the US, EU and other
countries. In the context of normal pharma
industry time-frames, this is a remarkable
achievement and lays the groundwork for
substantial future revenue growth and
sustainable profitability.
The Company has also taken an important step
in the evolution of its strategy this year when it
acquired Sinclair Srl (formerly Euroderm) and with
it, it’s Italian sales force. This important step gives
us greater control over the marketing of our
products and will lead to substantially improved
margins for those sold by our Italian sales force.
The establishment of our own sales and
marketing capability in other major markets is an
important future part of our strategy. With our
clear success in gaining regulatory approvals, we
now have a large portfolio of approved products
which we will be able to market ourselves in
selected countries as well as through licensing
partners.
As indicated in our market update in June,
Sinclair has a robust near term pipeline of future
potential products. These include five new derma
products, five oral care products including two
Decapinol® line extensions for which, post
period, we already have EU regulatory approval
and two products for the treatment of eye
conditions.
We are now seeing increasing revenues from our
main products as our licensing partners start to
market them. Our Atopiclair™ agreement with
Chester Valley Pharmaceuticals Inc. last
December has resulted in the product’s US
launch in June this year. Similarly, Decapinol®,
our novel oral rinse product for gingivitis, has
now been launched in Italy by Dompé. Our other
key oral health, and currently largest product,
Aloclair®, is now being sold by the international
group Sunstar Butler in 24 countries in the EU
and North America. The US based retailing giant
Wal-Mart is now selling Aloclair® Rinse
(marketed in the US as Rincinol®) in its US stores
and superstores. Aloclair® is now Sinclair’s most
widely available product with a total of 34
licensing agreements covering over 50 countries,
including the Far East, the USA, Canada, South
America, Australia, Europe and the Middle East.
Steve Harris
Non-Executive Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
“In the last five years,
the remarkably repaid
achievement of
regulatory approvals
and licensing deals for
Sinclair products has
laid the groundwork for
substantial future
revenue growth and
sustainable
profitability.”
