 Sinclair IS Pharma plc Annual report and accounts 2014
06
Strategic report
1
To focus the business on 
commercialising
fewer, larger assets and developing single brand  
names globally, whilst reducing the number of  
non-core products
2
To push aggressively into  
emerging markets
with global partners who can provide muscle to help  
us achieve rapid growth
3
To reduce spend on general overheads 
and in-house product development and to increase 
expenditure on commercialising and developing our global 
brands, supported by line extensions, to increase the 
breadth and penetration of these brands
4
To drive profits from the operating 
leverage 
provided by our high quality sales platform by increasing 
sales volumes and identifying compatible product 
acquisitions and licensing opportunities
Chairman’s statement
This was achieved despite currency 
headwinds and the hesitant post economic 
crisis recovery within our core European 
markets which restricted LFL growth to 
4%.
We continue to pursue the core elements of 
a strategy outlined upon the arrival of Chris 
Spooner as Chief Executive Officer four 
years ago:
The consistent prioritisation of these 
strategic goals has resulted in steadily 
increasing profitability in recent years. In 
particular, improving operating leverage has 
resulted in a strong increase in our adjusted 
EBITDA margin, up to 16% from 13% last 
year and 1 1% in 201 1/12. We expect to 
continue to improve margins in the current 
year and beyond. The fixed costs of a high 
quality, fully integrated pan European sales 
force are significant, but as major new 
products are added to the platform a 
significant part of the incremental gross 
margin falls to the bottom line. In 2013/14 
the most important contributor to our 
improved EBITDA margin was the first full 
year of Sculptra
®
.
During the year the Board reviewed a 
number of opportunities to exploit our 
platform further. We concluded that the 
fastest growing part of our business is 
aesthetics, where we came into the last 
financial year with a capable well trained 
sales force but lacking critical mass in 
product offering. Aesthetics is a higher 
growth segment than our traditional derma 
markets and minimally invasive, medicinal 
quality aesthetics is a natural adjunct to our 
existing high quality derma franchise.
Your Company again delivered a result in line with 
Board and City expectations, albeit with a slightly 
greater than expected second half weighting, with 
sales up by 15% to £63.6m and adjusted EBITDA 
up by 39% to £10.0m.
Grahame Cook
Chairman Sinclair IS Pharma plc Annual report and accounts 2014
07
We decided during the year to seize this 
opportunity and we were delighted to  
be able to persuade the owners and 
management of three very exciting and 
innovative aesthetics companies that 
Sinclair’s distribution platform would 
provide the most effective and dynamic 
way for their products rapidly to reach a 
global market. 
In January 2014 we completed the 
acquisition of Obvieline SAS (Perfectha
®
); 
followed in March 2014 by AQTIS Medical 
BV (Ellansé™); and in May 2014 by 
Silhouette Lift SL. Three differentiated, fast 
growing aesthetics companies which now 
give us the ability to create a unique and 
compelling patent lifecycle approach to 
non-invasive facial rejuvenation. The 
majority of dermal filler procedures in our 
key territories involve the use of hyaluronic 
acid (‘HA’) gel, and as a differentiated 
biphasic HA the Perfectha
®
 range 
addresses this demand. Ellansé™ 
(resorbable PCL microspheres) is a unique 
next-generation collagen stimulator and 
Silhouette
®
 is the only cone-on-suture lift/
volumiser in the industry.
All three acquired companies have now 
been integrated into the global operations 
of Sinclair. They contributed an aggregate 
of nearly £6.0m of sales in their  
respective post acquisition periods and  
we expect them to be significant profit 
contributors in the coming year. Ellansé™ 
and Perfectha
®
 use a distributor-only 
model with 90% of sales in emerging 
markets; we expect to capture higher 
margins on higher sales using our direct 
sales forces in Europe.
We believe in a ‘mixed’ dermatology 
model; in our view, Sinclair’s heritage and 
pharmaceutical standards in medicinal 
dermatology have been a key success 
factor in quickly creating a trusted 
reputation in a less-regulated aesthetics 
industry. Commercially however, a higher 
proportion of aesthetics sales have 
buoyed Sinclair’s move into higher 
growth, non-reimbursable products 
where we and our distribution partners 
can be price-setters with beneficial 
effects on our gross margin. 
We paid particular care to the structuring 
and financing of these transactions to limit 
dilution and manage risk. We raised 
£59.5m of debt through a new five year 
debt facility and £20.0m of equity during 
the year in order to finance the acquisitions. 
Sinclair ended the year with net debt of 
£40.2m – a multiple of 2.8x pro-forma 
EBITDA, and below expectations set at the 
time of the placing. A significant part of the 
consideration for each acquisition will only 
be paid upon the achievement of specific 
milestones. This will make the majority of 
stage payments self-financing and means 
that each acquisition has been earnings 
accretive from the date of acquisition.
The Company’s move to focus our portfolio 
has continued with the disposals of 
Effederm, Xclair, Salinum and SST. 
Subsequently, Cryogesic has been sold for 
£1.1m and further disposals are anticipated 
in FY15. We also remain alert for partnering 
and co-marketing opportunities, 
increasingly with fewer, larger partners and 
we are in particular, currently focusing on 
developing an appropriate strategy for the 
US, where opportunities for a number of 
our products are significant. We have 
announced the appointment to the Board of 
Jeff Thompson as a Non-executive Director 
who has many years’ experience of US 
dermatology markets gained through his 
time at Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. where he 
was Chief Operating Officer at the time  
it was acquired by GlaxoSmithKline plc  
for $2.9 billion. 
Your Company is now better placed than at 
any time in its history to increase revenues 
and profits substantially and we are 
confident about the current year. We have 
made three highly promising acquisitions 
during the year and now have six global 
brands with significant potential. We remain 
in the early stages of a comprehensive 
multi-country, multi-product strategy which 
we believe will deliver significant value  
for shareholders. I would like to thank 
shareholders for their continued support.
Grahame Cook
Chairman
