 Chairman’s Statement
In 2002, Sirius’ confidence was confirmed
and translated into an outstanding 30.6%
increase in turnover, driven by market-
leading products and a loyal and growing 
customer base.
The Group continued to grow well in the second half 
of the year, when it delivered performance which the 
directors consider to be strong in its own right and
especially pleasing when measured against that of 
the Group’s competitors and the IT sector in general.
Strong operating cash inflows of £2.6m (2001: £0.5m)
were generated during the year. Consequently, by 
mid-year the Group had reduced gearing from the 31
December 2001 level of 28.1% to zero. It remains
ungeared.
REVIEW OF RESULTS
Sirius Financial Solutions embarked upon 2002 with a
vision that was scaled up radically from that of 2001
and a determination to realise the rewards of its 
significant investment in product development. 
Against the backdrop of increasingly difficult trading
conditions in both the technology and financial services
markets, your Board was nevertheless confident that
Sirius would succeed on the global stage. The Group
saw strong signals of business to come from all of its 
product sectors and it set its operational and financial
targets commensurately high.
I am pleased to report that this confidence was justified
and was translated into a 30.6% increase in Group
turnover and significantly improved operating profits
before goodwill amortisation of £2.8m (2001: £0.7m).
After charging goodwill, operating profit was £1.9m
(2001: operating loss of £0.2m).   
Sirius entered 2002 with a strong order book and 
visibility of £14.5m of revenues, which represented
approximately two-thirds of the market consensus 
forecast. As a result of deferring a sizeable contract from
2001 into 2002, higher than normal first half revenues
and profits were anticipated. This contributed to the
Group achieving record H1 performance with a 17.7%
increase in turnover relative to the same period
in 2001.
04
Ian Yeoman, 
Chairman Chairman’s Statement
at the year end a major order had been secured with 
wealth management group St. James’s Place which will
see the future roll-out of Swift to 1,600 users including
its extensive network of partners.
PARTNERSHIPS
For some time, Sirius has felt that in order to scale the
organisation successfully and to achieve its ambitions
for global growth, partnerships would need to play an 
important role. In 2002, the Group executed a partner
strategy which produced the desired results in terms of
business generation, ability to scale our operations and
systems implementation.   
Joint bids in partnership with CMG resulted in two sales
to UK customers and this relationship is now opening
doors to European opportunities. A partnership focusing
on the financial services sector was established with
Logica (now Logica-CMG) and, in the USA the Group’s
partnership with Align360 increased market presence
and sales opportunity and expanded our deployment
capability. The Group is pleased to have retained its
Microsoft Gold Certified Partner status and during the
year it embraced Microsoft’s .NET programme.
EMPLOYEES
In 2002 the Group continued to grow its headcount
which was in marked contrast to some of its direct 
competitors where continued retrenchment was a 
feature. This recruitment has equipped Sirius with a 
balanced and skilled employee base.
In light of the Group’s strong financial performance, but
whilst mindful of the difficult trading backdrop in the IT
sector, the directors consider that 2001 dividend levels
should be increased slightly. Accordingly they propose 
payment of a final dividend for 2002 of 1.7p per share. 
PRODUCT
As anticipated, the early 2002 sale to the New Zealand
subsidiary of Insurance Australia Group positioned
Sirius to market its underwriting product more assertively
on a global basis. This major project has progressed
well and has put Sirius in a good position to develop
further business in this region. Deployments against the
order book were executed, and in November 2002 a
strategically important sale of Sirius for Underwriting
was secured in the North American market.
Market reaction to Sirius for Broking confirmed that 
the product continues to have a clear lead over our 
competition. The Group built on earlier successes and 
established itself as the supplier of choice to some of
the UK’s largest insurance intermediaries such as
Alexander Forbes, The Beckett Group and Country
Mutual Insurance Brokers. Contract signing with Aon
was a major landmark. Sirius for Broking has now been
sold to over 150 organisations.
We believe that in 2002, our Swift application 
established a lead in software provision to the UK’s
larger Independent Financial Advisers. Major 
deployments were undertaken at the Royal Bank of
Scotland and the Co-operative Bank. Significantly,  
05 Chairman’s Statement (continued)
I should like to thank all employees for their efforts and
demonstrable commitment to the Group’s vision for
high growth and market leadership, and to commend
them for the significant performance they achieved in
2002.
CORPORATE CHANGES
2003 will see a number of changes for the Group as a
corporate entity. Firstly, it has decided to return to the
Alternative Investment Market (AIM). The Board feel that
AIM represents a more appropriate and cost effective
market for a Group of our size.
After the forthcoming Annual General Meeting two new
appointments to the Board will be made. Mike Dodd,
the Chief Executive of our UK Systems business unit, will
join the Board as an executive director. Mike has a
wealth of experience in the insurance sector, where he
has held senior positions for 20 years, and has been a
key member of Sirius’ senior management team over
the past five years. Also, we will welcome back Michael
Anstee as a non-executive director, a position he 
previously held until September 2001 when he left us
briefly to focus on other business and leisure interests.
Michael is a recognised figure in the UK general 
insurance market, and held business and IT board 
positions with London and Edinburgh Insurance
Company for 10 years. 
Finally, I am retiring as non-executive Chairman, a post
I have held for two years. I leave a Group with market-
leading products and a loyal and growing customer
base. Stephen Verrall, the current Group Chief
Executive, will take on the role of Chairman and 
Group Chief Executive from the date of my retirement. 
Ian Yeoman
Chairman
10 April 2003
06
