 Sirius at a Glance
Sirius Financial Solutions is headquartered in the UK and has subsidiary
operations in the US, the Caribbean and Africa employing 270 staff. 
Sirius has built a customer base of over 900 insurance organisations in 50
countries worldwide. 
It provides both packaged software and bespoke software solutions 
development for national and international insurance companies, 
intermediaries, independent financial advisers and pension trustees. 
The company’s flagship software is Sirius, a contemporary Windows®-
based technology architecture and family of software components
launched in 2000 that are the result of five years’ research and 
development. Swift is our product specifically addressing the 
financial adviser market. All products are internet enabled.
The contemporary nature of our software allows us to demonstrate 
considerable business benefit to the customer through cost effective and
short term deployment. Customers realise a short term return on their
investment which increasingly is a pre-requisite of software selection by
large corporates. Sirius products are combined to create software 
packages for pre-defined operations, such as those performed by a 
general insurance broker, and can also be extended or combined to suit
the needs of the larger intermediary or insurance company. Using our
new technology, we have built three market-leading products, supported
by a range of subsidiary operations which enhance the capability of the
Group to create leading edge solutions.
02
intelligence
innovation
information
integration 03
Sirius for Underwriting
A complete solution to the front-office and back-office requirements of multi-line,
multi-national general insurance underwriters, driving all elements of customer relationship
management and policy administration. Sirius for Underwriting is fully web-enabled and 
provides the back-office capability to integrate with the Group’s e-commerce rating and
transaction engine. Delivers comparative quotations, policy issuance, re-insurance, claims
management, customer management and full accounting functionality for a range of 
personal and commercial lines insurance.
The Sirius for Underwriting technology provides for rapid systems development and 
deployment, providing rich functionality at a fraction of the cost of legacy software systems,
offering system scalability whilst delivering a high level of self-sufficiency.
Sirius for Broking
A complete computing environment for the UK’s provincial and national brokers. In the 
front-office it supports comparative quotation and electronic business transmission for Private
Motor, Household, Commercial Vehicle and Commercial Package insurance. In the back-office,
it manages multi-ledger accounting, customer and policy management, claim processing,
bespoke reporting and marketing. Fully internet-enabled, it offers document and image 
management, plus support for specialist insurance schemes, and functionality to ease 
compliance with forthcoming FSA regulations.  
Based on the principles of intelligent workflow and task management, Sirius for Broking 
automates the client-facing and administrative processes resulting in measurable gains in 
time, productivity and cost savings.
Swift for Financial Services
A complete workflow driven front-office and back-office system for independent financial
advisers and pension trustees. Swift offers sophisticated fact-find, planning and valuation 
tools that support client and portfolio data capture. Client investments are managed with
Swift, as are all types of pension funds. The system supports individual (including stakeholder)
and group pension management, and also provides specialist software for SIPP and SSAS
fund providers. Swift offers full accounting, including IFA commission and fees processing. 
It automates compliance tracking for the IFA and when used by a composite brokerage, 
can be integrated with Sirius for Broking.
MEDIAmaker
An Established Media and New Media communications business, providing blue-chip clients
with a full conference and communications service. This integrated approach sets it apart
from other media providers and enables MEDIAmaker to greatly enhance communications
events by providing full in-house services that include on line registration and surveys, SMS
messaging and electronic delegate management. 
New Media skills extend to developing online communications tools, intranets, e-learning 
systems and interactive internet sites. Through its division Sirius Interactive, it delivers
expertise specific to the provision of web based communication and e-commerce 
technologies for the insurance sector.
Key initiatives
Stargate: Changes the way in which brokers and IFAs can transact with insurers, by 
providing direct access to insurer’s e-enablement facilities for quotations, placement and
product information. Stargate’s ground breaking process provides genuine end-to-end 
connectivity for the first time, delivering rapid, streamlined business placement at the touch 
of a button. 
MediQuote: The UK’s first and only internet delivered private medical insurance rates and
benefits comparisons program for individual and group schemes.
