 Group Chief Executive’s Statement
for our customers: value for money, the ability to
deploy rapidly and the opportunity to get an early
return on their investment.
Our sales success was well balanced across all of our
key products as we made further global sales of
Sirius for Underwriting, saw Sirius for Broking outsell
all its direct competitors and established Swift as a
market leading software package for larger financial
advisers.
2002 - REMARKABLE PERFORMANCE IN A 
CHALLENGING MARKET
In my statement this time last year, I said we were
‘looking forward to a rewarding year in 2002’. And
with that in mind we embarked upon 2002 with an
ambitious vision to achieve exceptional performance
in what was already a challenging market. 
Our confidence was based upon the strength and
superiority of our new products, which were 
generating run-rate sales and being widely used by
intermediaries and insurance companies globally. 
In addition we believed we had an exceptional and
dedicated team of employees and a substantial and
loyal customer base built up over the previous 18
years.
Whilst 2002 turned out to be a far more difficult year
than many predicted for both the insurance and IT
sectors, I am delighted to report that our confidence
was well founded and that the Group was able to
make significant progress towards its aim of 
becoming a leading global supplier of insurance 
software.
In 2002 we grew our sales by over 30% on the 
previous year. This growth was all organic and driven
by the growing success of our products in our chosen
markets. While there is clear evidence of a slow
down in IT procurement, both generally and 
specifically in the insurance sector, Sirius is 
developing an enviable success rate on the deals 
we bid for. I believe this is due to our ability to
demonstrate a functionally rich package, providing
08
“We have never had better technology 
to take to market. Sirius can offer 
prospective customers the reassurance 
of modern, scaleable and proven 
products with high market acceptance.
Importantly, we can demonstrate that 
Sirius continues to be a knowledgeable,
market aligned, mature and financially 
resilient organisation.”
Stephen Verrall,
Group Chief Executive Group and New India; and significantly in the US to
Professional Risk Underwriters, a specialist medical
liability underwriter.  
We have made good progress with our major
deployment of Sirius for Underwriting to IAG 
(formerly NRMA) in New Zealand, with the system
due to go live this autumn. We are optimistic about
further business opportunity with IAG and the other
opportunities around the world that this scalable,
high-end version of our underwriting product 
presents.
North America 
An integral part of our Solutions business is our
North American operation which provides sales and
support of our underwriting and agent products in
the US and Caribbean. We started 2002 with the
belief that our financial performance would improve
in this strategically important region. Unfortunately
the US market showed few signs of recovery during
the year, which was reflected in continued low buyer
confidence. The Group therefore decided to contain
costs and to realign itself against a limited sales 
strategy focused on existing customers and on 
securing recurring revenues. I am pleased to report
that this strategy has resulted in an improvement in
financial performance over the previous year with a
small operating profit before goodwill amortisation 
of £59,911 (2001: loss of £556,675). 
There are signs that the market may be set to
improve and we enter 2003 with a new, recently
appointed US Manager, a former member of my UK
management team.
BUSINESS REVIEW
In the latter part of the year, the Group was 
restructured from five to four business units, which
has resulted in better alignment with our target 
business segments.  
Solutions
The Solutions business unit is responsible for the sale
and delivery of our Sirius and Swift products as 
larger, higher value ‘enterprise’ systems, often with a
high degree of systems integration. This is the fastest
growing business within the Group, having been
launched in 1999 to capitalise on the arrival of our
then new Sirius products. In 2002 revenue nearly
doubled to £8.9m (2001: £4.9m).  
Notable Swift wins included sales to Royal Bank 
of Scotland, Co-operative Bank and the wealth 
management group St. James’s Place. The latter will
be our largest deployment of Swift, with 1,600 users
located throughout the UK.  
Sirius for Broking was sold to NFU’s expanding 
broker business, Country Mutual Insurance Brokers.
Further business was generated by Folgate’s 
continued expansion and our deployment at AON.
We believe that the market sees our insurance 
knowledge and its application to the delivery of 
comprehensive and flexible software products as 
our strongest asset.
We consolidated our market position with Sirius for
Underwriting. Sales were made in the Caribbean
including those to RSA Curacao and Harmony; in
Africa to Standard Fire; in South America to
Insurance Corporation of Belize; in the UK to Primary 
09 Group Chief Executive’s Statement (continued)
Stargate
An important milestone for the Group during 2002
was the success of our Stargate connectivity initiative.
It became a reality with the delivery of the first phase
with AXA; followed with adoption by other leading
insurers Zurich, Allianz Cornhill, Norwich Union and
Groupama.  
Stargate is a compelling proposition, allowing real
time connectivity between broker and insurer for the
placing of commercial lines insurance. Policies can
be quoted and issued in minutes as opposed to
weeks. It will take significant cost out of the insurance
market, is likely to change the commercial lines 
trading model, and represents an excellent 
opportunity for Sirius to remain ahead of its 
competitors.  
In addition to the commitment of the UK’s leading
general insurers, we are also working with a number
of other organisations such as St. James’s Place,
Prudential and Selestia to deliver the much-needed
electronic integration between financial advisers and
product providers in the areas of policy selection,
quotation and servicing. 
MediQuote
In the past year, we continued to work towards our
goal of increasing efficiency and reducing the cost of
product distribution through use of our private 
medical insurance portal, MediQuote. Standard Life
maintained its support and Norwich Union and
Universal Provident came on board, moves which
should increase usage. Medicash brought cash plan
support to the provider panel, BWCA joined for
group SME business and Swiss Life now offers group
protection policies.  
The number of networks now using MediQuote
increased to 12, the number of users grew during 
the year by 56%, and the number of quotations
processed each month grew by 68%.
Support Services
Our Support Services business unit handles our 
customer support operations including our help desk.
Its revenues comprise maintenance contracts, service
management and service level agreements, and
added value services such as virus protection.
During 2002 we implemented a new service 
management structure with improved focus on 
customer needs and segmentation, as well as 
revenue generation. New service level agreements
that were introduced helped to facilitate 
improvements in service delivery and customer 
perception. 
Partnerships
A key part of our Solutions business unit strategy for
2002 was the establishment of an effective 
partnership programme. This we considered vital to
enable us to more quickly scale our business and
capitalise on the opportunity our products present.
During the year we built on our partnership with
Logica CMG and together we secured two new
important customers. We have strengthened our 
relationship with US based systems integrators Align
360 who are now working with us on most of our
North American deployments. In New Zealand we
continue to work with CGEY, and our Partner
Development Director has initiated a number of 
new partnership opportunities.
We continue to enjoy a strong relationship with
Microsoft, with whom we worked during the year to
successfully demonstrate the scalability of our 
applications. 
UK Systems
In the autumn of 2002 we merged two of the
Group’s business units - Systems (responsible for the
sale of our Sirius for Broking and Swift applications
as turnkey systems to the UK’s insurance brokers and
IFAs), and Insurer (responsible for the development
and distribution of insurer products to the broker
channel). This created UK Systems, a single, larger
business unit focused on delivery to brokers, IFAs 
and their insurer product providers. The combined
business unit grew 15% during the year to a turnover
of £7.0m (2001: £6.1m).
Throughout 2002 the broking market continued to
consolidate. A number of strong, dynamic and
acquisitive brokers became even more influential.
Others came together to form informal networks
through which they aim to secure a greater market
share. The market is set to undergo further 
consolidation stimulated largely by the proposed FSA
regulation. This consolidation is being driven by a
number of ‘movers and shakers’; entrepreneurial
organisations such as The Folgate Partnership and
Country Mutual Insurance Brokers whom I am
delighted to say are using our Sirius for Broking 
software to underpin their growing businesses.
Other noteworthy sales included those to well-
regarded, provincial insurance brokers such as
Hanover Park, Waveney, Charcol and Griffiths &
Armour. It is pleasing to report that we are rapidly
approaching our 200th sale of Sirius for Broking.
10 The business unit performed in line with budget with
turnover for the year of £4.2m (2001: £3.9m).
MEDIAmaker
MEDIAmaker provides new media design and build
services such as internet, intranet and e-commerce
development for the Group’s larger insurance 
customers, as well as for a range of other companies
in a variety of sectors. 2003 sees the launch of 
Sirius Interactive, a portfolio of specialist internet-
based software and services for the insurance 
sector. The business also provides established 
media services such as event and conference 
planning and execution. 
During the year, turnover increased by 6% to £2.6m
(2001: £2.5m), assisted by sales to new blue-chip 
clients such as Shell, Cadburys and Barclays. 
MEDIAmaker also successfully delivered its 
largest conference ever, for Coors Brewery. 
The emerging markets in new media, such as 
e-learning, did not grow as quickly as predicted,
but there were encouraging breakthroughs 
with customers such as Crookes Healthcare.  
The business completed its move to larger, 
much improved premises in October of 2002.
Towards the end of 2002, MEDIAmaker 
secured a three year outsourcing contract 
with Boots for the provision of media services.  
These two developments should allow the 
business to accelerate its growth rate 
during 2003 and beyond.
EMPLOYEES
During the year we saw the number of 
employees in the Group grow from 230 
to 270. This was largely in the area of 
professional services to resource the many 
new projects initiated by the growth in 
solution sales.
As a Group, we put increased emphasis 
on human resources in the past year, 
particularly on knowledge sharing, training 
and communication. The opportunity to 
learn by experience was also increased 
including, for some, the opportunity to work 
in our overseas offices.
Last year I shared our plans to move our 
head office operation in Sutton Coldfield to 
larger, more appropriate premises. 
This proved to be more challenging than was 
first envisaged. However, we have now identified 
suitable accommodation which reflects our 
status as a global supplier and provides a 
modern and effective working environment 
for our employees. We plan to relocate during 
the first half of 2004.
11 Group Chief Executive’s Statement (continued)
Managed Service Provision (MSP)
The Group has identified a significant opportunity to
grow its business in the area of managed services.
This will facilitate the outsourcing to a Sirius 
managed service of all, or part, of our larger 
customers’ Sirius applications, third party applications
and IT infrastructure. MSP is a configurable offering
that frees our customers to focus on their principal
business activity whilst Sirius manages their IT needs.
Our MSP service optionally provides hosting at a data
centre, or at the customer’s own hosting centre.  
I can report considerable interest in this new 
proposition. In addition, this will allow us to more
widely offer an Application Service Provider (ASP)
deployment model.  
The first half of 2003 will see a period of investment
in our MSP offering, as we put in place the necessary
infrastructure and resources. This may result in the
Group incurring some one-off set up costs. An MSP
capability will strengthen the Group by allowing us to
sell additional services into our customer base, tender
for new contracts and importantly build on our 
recurring revenue base by creating long term added
value contracts.
Acquisitions
Throughout 2002 we identified and evaluated a
number of acquisition opportunities. Whilst we are
confident of the Group’s ability to generate organic
growth, there will undoubtedly be further 
consolidation in our sector. We will continue to assess
acquisition opportunities, and our move back to the
AIM market will allow the Group to complete suitable
acquisitions on a more cost effective basis.
SUMMARY
The technology and insurance sectors continue to
experience challenging times. Although we have 
confidence in our ability to build on our recent 
successes, we consider it prudent to set conservative
growth expectations for the coming year. Nevertheless,
we aim to achieve increased sales for each of our
three products, and to retain our focus on building a
profitable, cash generative business.
Stephen J Verrall
10 April 2003
STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK FOR 2003
2002 was undoubtedly an exceptional year for the
Group. To a certain extent this was anticipated with
the roll-over of some business from 2001.
Nevertheless, against the backdrop of a difficult 
market we produced our best ever results. The Group
we are today represents a significant uplift on our
2002 starting position. I would like to take this
opportunity to thank all of Sirius’ employees, and of
course our customers, for making this possible.
2003
In 2003 we intend to build on our success.
Specifically we will:
= maintain our primary aim to become a global 
leader in the provision of insurance software;
= raise our profile with the larger players in the 
insurance underwriting market, with the assistance
of our partners;
= aim to retain and strengthen our position as a 
leading supplier to the UK’s insurance brokers, 
backed by our biggest marketing campaign to 
date;
= further develop and exploit our Stargate 
technology for both commercial lines insurance 
and the financial services sector;
= evaluate the opportunity to open a new office in 
either Australia or New Zealand, to coincide with 
the implementation of our IAG system, thus 
providing local sales resource and support to 
prospective customers in this region;  
= continue with our commitment to research and 
development activity, much of which will be 
sponsored by specific customer projects.
12
