 Sirius Minerals Plc Report and Consolidated Accounts 2011 4
Strategic Overview
Sirius’s goal is to become a significant 
potash producer. It will build several projects 
utilising the latest construction and operating 
technology to build economically competitive, 
sustainable mines.
With the acquisition of the York Potash Project 
in	January	2011	the	Company	acquired	a	project	
with enormous potential to become one of 
the world’s most significant potash producers. 
Sirius will focus its efforts to add shareholder 
value by concentrating on advancing York 
Potash to production as quickly as possible. 
Consistent with its stated strategy, the 
Company’s other projects will continue to be 
moved forward in parallel, but on a balanced 
risk reward basis. In addition the Company 
will continue to seek out and review other 
potash opportunities that can add value for its 
shareholders and that align with its diversified 
geographical strategy.
The Company has embarked on a programme 
of recruitment of experienced and motivated 
employees to bring York Potash into 
production. A team is being built globally to 
deliver the Company’s goal of becoming the 
NEW POTASH POWERHOUSE.
Sustainable Development
Sirius is committed to sustainable development. 
At the same time as progressing its core 
projects, the Company is also investing in 
research and development to improve the 
long-term economic returns of its potash 
projects through sustainable innovations while 
reducing their carbon footprint. As part of this 
commitment to sustainable development Sirius 
has adopted the ten sustainable development 
principles issued by the International Council 
of	Metals	and	Mining	(“ICMM”)	in	2003.	The	
following summarises those principles:
1.  Implement and maintain ethical business 
practices and sound systems of corporate 
governance.
2.  Integrate sustainable development 
considerations within the corporate 
decision making process.
3.	 	 Uphold	fundamental	human	rights	and	
respect cultures, customs and values in 
dealing with employees and others who are 
affected by our activities.
4.  Implement risk management strategies 
based on valid data and sound science.
“York Potash holds 
options on mineral 
rights over a substantial 
portion of the largest 
known polyhalite 
deposit at mineable 
depths in the world”
Chief Executive 
Officer’s Report
Chris Fraser
Managing Director and CEO Sirius Minerals Plc Report and Consolidated Accounts 2011 5
CEO's report
5.  Seek continual improvement of our health and 
safety performance.
6.  Seek continual improvement of our environmental 
performance.
7.  Contribute to conservation of biodiversity and 
integrated approaches to land use planning.
8.	 	 Facilitate	and	encourage	responsible	product	
design, use, re-use, recycling and disposal of our 
products.
9.  Contribute to the social, economic and 
institutional development of the communities in 
which we operate.
10.  Implement effective and transparent engagement, 
communication and independently verified 
reporting arrangements with our stakeholders.
York Potash Project
The Company acquired the entire share capital of York 
Potash	in	January	2011	for	the	issue	of	150	million	
new ordinary shares, which together with an acquired 
outstanding	loan,	valued	the	company	at	£25.3	million,	
including	£6.6m	of	goodwill.	York	Potash	has	
options over a substantial mineral rights portfolio 
both onshore in North Yorkshire and in the adjacent 
offshore area underneath the North Sea.
Based	on	a	significant	amount	of	historical	information	
including over 97,000 metres of historic drilling 
and extensive 2D seismic work in the project 
area, completed in previous potash and oil and 
gas exploration, the Company and its advisers are 
targeting three separate known seams of potash in the 
following order of priority:
•	 Fordon Seam: the very large and potentially high 
grade polyhalite (potassium sulphate or K
2
SO
4
) 
target;
•	 Boulby Seam: a high grade sylvite (potassium 
chloride or KCl) target with known significant 
localised variability in thickness and grade; and
•	 Sneaton Seam: a thicker, but lower grade sylvite 
target.
 Conceptual geological stratigraphy at York Potash
To	the	north	of	the	York	Potash	Project,	ICL	Fertilizers,	
through its subsidiary Cleveland Potash Ltd, has 
historically	focused	its	mining	on	the	Boulby	Seam	at	
the	Boulby	mine	to	produce	MOP.	Recently,	however,	
they have commenced mining polyhalite from the 
Fordon	Seam	more	than	1.5	kilometres	offshore	under	
the North Sea. In addition, in April 2011 Cleveland 
was	successfully	awarded	a	£15	million	grant	from	
HM	Government’s	Regional	Growth	Fund.	This	grant	
was awarded to secure a positive decision from ICL 
to begin the world’s first commercial production 
of polyhalite from a plant in the Tees Valley. Sirius 
believes these are all positive endorsements of its 
strategy to focus on polyhalite as its priority target.
Polyhalite is a complex hydrated sulphate mineral 
(K
2
SO
4
.MgSO
4
.2CaSO
4
.2H
2
O), which can be 
processed into various potassium based fertilisers 
as well as being a valuable source of magnesium 
minerals. Although there are currently no commercial 
scale operations based on polyhalite, extensive 
research was done into various process routes in the 
1930s	and	1940s.	In	addition,	ICL	has	recently	made	 Sirius Minerals Plc Report and Consolidated Accounts 2011 6
Chief Executive Officer’s Report continued
patent applications on further process routes focused 
on the production of potassium nitrate.
Polyhalite is potentially a valuable source of minerals 
including:
•	 Raw polyhalite: can be simply crushed for use as a 
direct application organic fertiliser;
•	 Sulphate of Potash (SOP): there are several 
known routes to produce commercial quantities of 
SOP from polyhalite. As part of its Concept Study 
announced	in	July	2011,	Sirius	will	be	working	to	
decide which process route is the most attractive 
economically and environmentally. More about 
the benefits of SOP is set out below in the Potash 
Market section;
•	 NOP: Potassium nitrate is a high value fertiliser 
product trading at prices above SOP due to its 
excellent solubility and lack of chloride ions. It also 
has industrial applications;
•	 Various potassium and magnesium fertiliser 
compounds: these combine the potassium 
sulphate with the important micro-nutrient 
magnesium and are typically used where soils are 
magnesium deficient;
•	 Magnesium hydroxide (Mg(OH)
2
): a compound 
that is increasingly seen as an environmentally 
sustainable and safer alternative to caustic soda in 
the water treatment and paper milling industries. 
In addition, it is a valuable feedstock for the 
production of other magnesium compounds; and
•	 Magnesium oxide (MgO): is used in global steel 
and other industries for refractory bricks in kilns 
and furnaces.
In	January	2011,	based	on	the	available	information	
on	the	then	mineral	rights	position	of	608km
2
 (now 
over 621km
2
),	FWS	Consultants,	a	Competent	Person	
under	JORC,	established	in-situ	JORC	Exploration	
Targets
1
 at the York Potash Project of between 3.3 and 
6.0 billion tonnes of 67% to 94% polyhalite (19% 
to 27% K
2
SO
4
) and of between 330 million and 400 
million tonnes of 35% to 40% KCl.
These estimates have been adjusted to exclude ore 
under urban areas and for known faults and dykes. In 
the case of the polyhalite the estimate assumes only 
a five metre extraction thickness out of an apparent 
higher	grade	zone	of	between	ten	and	fifteen	metres.	
In addition, the Company has increased and continues 
to increase its mineral rights position by entering into 
option agreements with additional landowners in the 
project area. As a result the Company believes that 
this is potentially a conservative Exploration Target for 
the polyhalite.
The Company plans to drill up to ten holes in the first 
phase of the exploration programme and expects 
to release a resource statement in the first quarter 
of 2012. The geological model of the deposit will be 
constantly updated as new data are generated and if 
necessary the drill programme will be adjusted based 
on this data.
The leading industrial potash and mineral salts 
focussed engineering firm Ercosplan was appointed in 
June	2011	to	conduct	a	Concept	Study	on	the	project.	
The	Company	also	appointed	Hatch	and	Murphy	
Pipelines to assist on certain aspects of the Concept 
Study. Murphy Pipelines will specifically focus on the 
slurry	pipeline	transport	options	for	the	project.	Hatch	
has provided some highly experienced individuals 
to support the Sirius team to analyse and consider 
the various options for the project, but specifically to 
evaluate the project’s polyhalite processing options. 
The Concept Study, integrating the work of all three 
consultants, is due to be completed before the end of 
the year. 
The Concept Study will also consider shaft sinking, 
mining and by-product processing and will provide 
estimates of capital and operating costs, project 
implementation schedules and timelines. Assuming a 
positive outcome of this study the Company plans to 
immediately advance onto further studies to refine the 
estimates and develop detailed project designs.
Sirius is committed to pursuing innovation. Innovation 
in all phases of the project will be embraced to ensure 
the latest technologies are reviewed, tested and if 
1  These estimates of quantity and grade are conceptual in nature and there has been insufficient exploration to define a Mineral Resource on 
the property, and it is uncertain if further exploration will result in the discovery of a Mineral Resource on the property reportable to an AIM 
standard.
Drilling at York Potash Sirius Minerals Plc Report and Consolidated Accounts 2011 7
CEO's report
appropriate incorporated into the project designs 
and implementation plans. This will ensure the mine 
that the Company builds will be as sustainable and as 
efficient as possible while ensuring that in the decades 
to come it is seen as a leading example in the global 
mining industry.
Dakota Salts
Having	acquired	the	outstanding	balance	of	Dakota	
Salts in 2009 the Company continued to increase 
its	land	position	in	Burke	County	in	North	Dakota.	
Following	extensive	geological	studies	during	2010	
a drill site location was identified, based on the 
historical data available. In August 2010 Dakota Salts 
was granted an Exploration Permit to drill a hole to a 
depth of over 2,700 metres and in November drilling 
commenced	on	the	hole	EBY-1.
Drilling was carried out by Schlumberger Water 
Services USA Inc (SWS) and the Company’s North 
American geological consultants North Rim Exploration 
Limited (North Rim), with Saxon Energy Services as 
t h e 	 d r i l l 	 c o n t r a c t o r . 	 F o l l o w i n g 	 c o m p l e t i o n 	 o f 	 t h e 	 h o l e 	 t o	
a depth of 2,794 metres the core was analysed at the 
Saskatchewan Research Council laboratory. North Rim 
reviewed the results and determined that the hole had 
i n t e r s e c t e d 	 8 . 5 	 m e t r e s 	 o f 	 t h e 	 E s t e r h a z y 	 m e m b e r 	 f r o m	
2,702 metres with a weighted average K
2
O grade of 
1 1 . 8 % 	 a n d 	 8 . 6 % 	 c a r n a l l i t e .
In light of the Company’s intense focus on the York 
Potash	Project	and	the	nature	of	the	result	of	EBY-1,	
Sirius is continuing to consider its options on how best 
to add value for its shareholders from its investment 
in North Dakota. The Company believes the potash 
potential of the Prairie Evaporites in North Dakota 
remain a promising exploration target in the global 
search for potash.
Adavale
The Company currently holds exploration permits 
covering over 600km
2
 of land overlying the prospective 
B o r e e 	 S a l t 	 M e m b e r , 	 a 	 f o r m a t i o n 	 w i t h 	 s i g n i f i c a n t 	 s a l t	
and potash potential. These properties lie some 50km 
s o u t h 	 o f 	 t h e 	 t o w n 	 o f 	 B l a c k a l l 	 i n 	 c e n t r a l 	 Q u e e n s l a n d .
R P S 	 B o y d 	 P e t r o S e a r c h 	 ( B o y d ) 	 h a s 	 c o n d u c t e d 	 a 	 f u l l	
interpretation of the existing seismic and petroleum 
drilling data for the permit land on behalf of the 
Company. This work was carried out in two phases 
and has now been completed. Phase I involved the 
interpretation of publicly available 2D seismic data and 
Phase II involved digitising the available raster data of 
seismic lines within the project area and integrating 
these with the initial interpretation to produce a new 
r o b u s t 	 i n t e r p r e t a t i o n 	 o f 	 t h e 	 B o r e e 	 S a l t 	 M e m b e r .
Boyd	calculated	that	approximately	100	billion	
tonnes of salts exist within the Company’s northern 
exploration permits, which is approximately 
100% more than the Company’s original estimate. 
Furthermore,	Boyd	did	not	identify	any	fatal	flaws	
in the current programme to explore for potash and 
following this work a site has been identified that is 
considered very prospective for potash formation.
The key challenges in the area are the availability of 
water in sufficient quantities and securing access to 
infrastructure. One potential source of water is from 
the waste water of coal seam gas producers in the 
area, if a process can be developed to clean their 
water sufficiently for use in the project’s processing 
plant. This would be a symbiotic solution as it would 
also solve a serious problem for the coal seam gas 
producers.	Furthermore	it	may	be	possible	to	share	
infrastructure links with the coal seam gas and coal 
mining industry, and this will be investigated.
In August 2010 the Company entered into a 
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Sino-
Agri Mining Industry Co. Ltd (Sino-Agri), a division 
of China’s second largest fertiliser distributor, to 
develop the Adavale project. The MOU contained 
a n 	 e x c l u s i v i t y 	 p e r i o d 	 o f 	 1 8 0 	 d a y s 	 t o 	 c o n c l u d e 	 a 	 f u l l	
a g r e e m e n t . 	 T h i s 	 e x p i r e d 	 i n 	 F e b r u a r y 	 2 0 1 1 . 	 I n 	 l i g h t 	 o f 	 t h e	
transformational acquisition of York Potash earlier in 
the year the Company is now taking the opportunity to 
consider its overall strategic approach to China as the 
world’s largest consumer of potash and the source of 
substantial amounts of investment funds.
Canning Basin
In	October	2010	the	Company	instructed	Boyd	to	
conduct a full review of existing and newly acquired 
2D seismic data, together with the exploration data 
gathered	by	Rio	Tinto	Exploration	during	2008	and	
2009 for its Derby Salts tenements in Western 
Australia. Derby Salts’s five exploration licences cover 
some	1,236km
2
 of claims in the Kimberley region of 
Western	Australia	overlying	the	Canning	Basin.
The	Company	announced	Boyd’s	summary	findings	in	
May	 2011.	 Boyd	 had	 established	 that	 the	 Mallowa	 Salts	
are continuous with minimal disturbance, with salt 
mineralisation	ranging	from	approximately	179	to	630	
metres in thickness over a number of representative 
lines at a depth ranging from approximately 500 to 
1,300	metres.	There	was	no	evidence	of	major	faulting	
within the licence areas and five potential drill targets 
were identified.
These results warrant further study and the Company 
is now working with its consultants to plan the next 
phase of exploration work.
Research and Development
Research and development on several environmental 
technologies	provides	a	useful	second	horizon	of	value	 Sirius Minerals Plc Report and Consolidated Accounts 2011 8
Chief Executive Officer’s Report continued
for the Company’s activities. The nature of the studies 
are intended to provide direct potential economic 
benefits to the Company and with the acquisition 
of York Potash the Company is considering further 
research programmes suited for application at this 
project.
In April 2010 Dakota Salts was awarded a grant 
by the Industrial Commission of North Dakota 
of US$225,000 (payable in 2011/12) to carry 
out feasibility studies on using salt caverns for 
compressed air energy storage (CAES) from wind 
energy in North Dakota, one of the windiest states 
in the United States. The project seeks to determine 
whether specifically created caverns in the salt and 
potash seams are viable or whether legacy caverns 
from previous mining operations need to be used. 
Other factors such as the proximity of the caverns to 
key infrastructure are also being considered. 
The Company is working on the project with Electric 
Power and Research Institute (EPRI), Schlumberger 
Ltd and Tetra Tech Inc. Schlumberger is currently 
developing a model to determine the sustainability 
of the CAES concept under the parameters that have 
been determined by EPRI.
In September 2010 the Company and the University 
of Queensland completed a nine month proof-of-
concept study exploring an innovative approach to 
carbon sequestration using salt solutions. This newly 
developed method converts salt and CO
2
 into sodium 
carbonates (e.g. bicarbonate of soda), which can be 
safely stored in empty underground mine caverns 
preventing that CO
2
 from entering the atmosphere.
Sirius and the University of Queensland designed this 
technology to work in conjunction with potash solution 
mining.	Besides	providing	a	long-term	storage	solution	
for CO
2
, another attractive feature of this process is 
that it uses the sodium rich salt solution generated 
from the solution mining of potash, providing both a 
storage solution for sodium and clean water that can 
be pumped back down into the cavern. The Company 
and University of Queensland are applying for patents 
and have also applied for a grant from the Australian 
Research Council to continue the programme.
Funding activity
During	the	year	the	Company	raised	£24.3	million	
in three separate placings. The first of these was in 
September	2010	when	£3.0	million	was	raised	from	
international investors and existing shareholders 
at	6.0	pence	per	share.	A	further	£1.3	million	was	
injected into the Company by Mr Russell Scrimshaw 
who was appointed as non-executive director in 
December 2010.
Following	the	acquisition	of	York	Potash	the	
Company’s	new	management	raised	£20	million	
through	a	placing	of	153.8	million	new	ordinary	shares	
at	13	pence	per	share	in	March	2011	to	institutional	
investors in the United Kingdom, the United States and 
Australia. This placing brought onto the Company’s 
share register the Company’s first substantial 
institutional shareholders. The intention is to increase 
the proportion of the Company’s issued share capital 
held by institutions so as to provide the Company with 
a stable shareholder base with the capacity to fund the 
Company through to production.
Of	the	£20	 million	 raised	 in	the	last	placing	some	 £13.5	
million was planned to be expended on York Potash, 
with a substantial majority of the funds being used 
to fund the exploration programme that is currently 
underway.	Of	the	balance	some	£1.5	million	is	for	
expenditure on the Company’s other projects and the 
rest is to cover the issue costs and for working capital 
and corporate expenditure.
The year ahead
The next twelve months in the life of Sirius will be 
transformational. The Company is growing and 
undertaking activities on a scale it has never done 
before. This work is planned to deliver significant 
shareholder value as quickly as possible. Sirius is 
now well set on its strategy to be the NEW POTASH 
POWERHOUSE.
Chris Fraser 
Managing Director and CEO
Preparing the drill bit
