 Dear Shareholder,
When I wrote to you last year in my first 
Chairman’s Statement, I set out the case for 
the Company’s decision to focus on developing 
into a New Potash Powerhouse based upon 
multiple projects in OECD countries. A year on, 
with increasing global potash consumption and 
accelerating food price inflation becoming an 
international issue, I am convinced we have set 
the correct strategic direction and I am pleased 
to report that we are now making good progress 
down that path.
Increased pressure continues to be placed on 
a diminishing arable land bank as a result of 
population growth, rapid urbanisation in the 
developing nations and the transition to higher 
protein and higher value diets around the globe. 
These, amongst other factors, are contributing to 
the increasing long-term demand for potassium 
enriched fertilisers to improve the productivity 
of farmland in both developing and developed 
nations alike.  
Of late the investment community has deepened 
its understanding of the fertiliser sector and 
potash in particular, not least as a result of 
the	unsuccessful	BHP	Billiton	bid	for	Potash	
Corporation of Saskatchewan in August 2010 
and the subsequent acquisition of PotashOne 
by K+S AG. This improved understanding is 
leading investors to better appreciate the range 
of potassium based fertilisers that are required in 
the market. A new lexicon of terms has become 
common place such as polyhalite, muriate of 
potash (MOP) and sulphate of potash (SOP). 
The debates are now no longer based simply on 
the scale and risks associated with any potential 
project, but on the likely make-up and related 
value of the contained potash.
How	has	all	this	impacted	our	Company	in	the	
year under review?
Quite	simply,	it	led	the	Board	to	better	rank	and	
prioritise the Company’s portfolio of assets. It also 
helped us recognise the value of securing projects 
focused on premium potash products such as SOP 
given that they can trade at up to a 50% premium 
to the more common MOP products. 
“I am pleased 
to report your 
Company is 
now well funded 
and is on the 
way towards 
achieving its 
goal of becoming 
the New Potash 
Powerhouse”
Chairman’s
Statement
Christopher Catlow
Chairman
Sirius Minerals Plc Report and Consolidated Accounts 2011 2 Sirius Minerals Plc Report and Consolidated Accounts 2011 3
Chairman's Statement
We were delighted to finalise negotiations to 
acquire	York	Potash	Ltd	in	January	2011.	The	
York Potash Project in the UK undoubtedly has 
the potential to rapidly become  a “tier one” 
company-making asset.  It provides Sirius with 
a world-class project that has every chance of 
becoming a major potash production centre and a 
significant contributor to both the North Yorkshire 
and United Kingdom economies. The product 
suite from the sylvite and polyhalite is extensive 
and potentially includes SOP, MOP, magnesium 
hydroxide, magnesium oxide and gypsum.
Upon the acquisition of York Potash, its founder 
and	major	shareholder	Chris	Fraser	agreed	
to become our Managing Director and CEO. 
He	brings	to	Sirius	considerable	resource	
development and capital raising experience, is 
an excellent team builder with boundless energy 
and leads by example. Chris is already building a 
talented management team around him that will 
stand Sirius in good stead in the years to come. 
Your Company has a suite of other assets that 
also have considerable promise. Whilst we did 
not hit the jackpot in drilling our first hole in North 
Dakota, we confirmed the presence of potash 
and have established a new mineral province. In 
Australia we have conducted extensive analysis 
of existing data and are confident that we will 
achieve exploration success. Our innovative 
technological initiatives are beginning to show 
promise in synergistic ways and we anticipate a 
rewarding future in this area too.
I believe that the success of an organisation 
depends on its culture, which comes from the 
top. We will build Sirius from the outset on a 
strong culture of innovation, can-do approach and 
urgency to ensure that our projects are developed 
quickly and in the most effective manner.
To that end, we significantly strengthened our 
Board	during	the	year	with	the	appointments	of	
Russell Scrimshaw in December 2010, Andrew 
Lindsay	in	January	2011	and	Peter	Woods	in	May	
2011. Russell was until recently Deputy Chief 
Executive	of	Fortescue	Metals	Group	Ltd	and	
brings a wealth of relevant experience to the 
table, particularly with his marketing experience 
and his knowledge of China.  Meanwhile Andrew  
joined	us	as	Finance	Director	and	CFO	having	
had the same role at European Nickel for the 
last	seven	years.	Before	that	he	was	at	Anglo	
American.	Finally	we	were	delighted	to	welcome	
Peter	Woods	to	the	Board	as	a	non-executive	
director.  Peter brings immense local and industry 
knowledge in relation to our York Potash Project 
having been Chief Geologist at the neighbouring 
Boulby	mine	and	a	prominent	citizen	in	North	
Yorkshire for many years. 
I	would	also	like	to	thank	Jonathan	Harrison,	who	
stepped	down	from	the	Board	in	January	2011,	for	
his tireless efforts on behalf of the Company in its 
formative	years	in	his	role	as	Finance	Director.	
For	the	year	to	31	March	2011	the	Company	
generated	a	consolidated	loss	of	£7.1	million,	
some	£3.3	million	larger	than	last	year,	which	
reflects the increased level of activity in the 
Company	this	year	and	a	£4.8	million	charge	
for share based payments.  As at the end of 
the	year	the	group	held	£21.0	million	in	cash	
having	completed	a	£20.0	million	placing,	before	
expenses in March 2011.
Following	this	successful	placing,	which	saw	
some 15% of the Company’s shares placed with 
institutional shareholders, I am pleased to report 
your Company is now well funded and on the way 
towards achieving its goal of becoming the New 
Potash Powerhouse. 
Since the financial year end we have 
commissioned a Concept Study for York Potash, 
which is planned to be completed by the end 
of the year, and have also started our drill 
programme with the intention of announcing a 
resource in the first quarter of 2012. 
The coming year promises to be an exciting one 
for all of us at Sirius.
Chris Catlow 
Chairman
“The integration of the York Potash Project following 
the	acquisition	announced	on	17	January	2011	is	
proceeding well. The project is being moved forward 
on many fronts”
