 The delivery of an adjusted operating 
profit for the group in line with last 
year reflects the considerable 
achievement of all of our businesses 
in a year when EU sugar prices 
declined substantially.
This financial year saw sterling strengthen 
against all of our major trading currencies 
and particularly those in emerging 
markets. Group revenue declined by  
3% to £12.9bn but, at constant currency, 
actually increased by 1%. Adjusted 
operating profit was 1% lower at £1,163m 
but increased by 2% at constant currency. 
Currency movements have had a 
significant impact on our business 
segments this year and in order to 
understand the underlying operating 
performance of each of them, we have 
referred to the year-on-year changes at 
constant currency. 
A key influence on this year’s 
performance has been the impact on  
our food businesses of price deflation  
in some of our major commodities.  
The prices of wheat, barley, corn oil and 
rice all fell during the year. World sugar 
prices have also fallen and, as discussed 
elsewhere in this report, we are in the 
midst of a structural change in EU sugar 
prices. As a consequence the growth  
in revenues achieved by our food 
businesses in recent years has not been 
sustained this year. It is against this 
background that I am pleased with the 
profit and margin improvements delivered 
by Agriculture, Grocery and Ingredients.
Operationally, AB Sugar had an excellent 
year with good factory performances  
and further substantial cost reductions 
from the performance improvement 
programmes which are well embedded  
in each of the businesses. We expect  
EU prices to fall further during the  
coming year, but remain confident that 
our well invested sugar assets position  
us amongst the world’s lowest-cost  
sugar producers. 
At Primark, a strong store opening 
programme, excellent buying, and higher 
sales densities in our new stores, all  
came together to drive revenues to  
within a fraction of £5bn with a further 
improvement in margin. As well as 
expanding in our more established UK 
market we also opened large stores in a 
number of major cities across Europe, 
including Lisbon, Madrid, Berlin, Cologne, 
Dusseldorf and Vienna. This year saw the 
opening of our first stores in France, firstly 
in Marseille quickly followed by Dijon and 
then three stores in the suburbs of Paris. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
STATEMENT
The delivery of an adjusted operating profit  
for the group in line with last year reflects  
the considerable achievement of all of our 
businesses in a year when EU sugar prices 
declined substantially.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014
6
Introduction
Chief Executive’s statement We were delighted by the success of 
these French stores, both for the size of 
the crowds on opening days, which were 
overwhelming, but more importantly for 
the tremendous customer enthusiasm for 
Primark, in very different cities, which was 
sustained throughout the rest of the year.
Primark’s response to the Rana Plaza 
disaster in Bangladesh in 2013 has been 
extensive. In addition to the payment of 
compensation to the victims and their 
families, Primark was a founding signatory 
to the Accord on Fire and Building Safety 
in Bangladesh. This Accord is a contract 
between over 150 apparel brands and 
retailers, international and local trade 
unions and NGOs, which are committed  
to carrying out factory inspections  
and improving working conditions in  
the Bangladesh garment industry.  
Primark carried out building surveys  
in Bangladesh to assess the structural 
integrity of all of the 80 factories from 
which we source garments. These 
structural assessments will be extended 
to other countries shortly. 
Grocery made very good progress with 
profit and margin well ahead of last year. 
Twinings Ovaltine had another excellent 
year, both in the UK and overseas, and 
trading was much improved at ACH Foods 
in the US and Mexico. The recovery in 
profitability at George Weston Foods in 
Australia was well established this year. 
AB Agri deserves credit for the further 
development of the business, particularly 
for the strides made by AB Vista as it 
extends its global customer reach.  
Profit in Ingredients recovered strongly 
this year as the new management team  
at AB Mauri, our yeast and bakery 
ingredients business, made significant 
progress in reducing the cost base, 
restructuring operations and integrating 
the newly acquired European bakery 
ingredients business. 
Our businesses are encouraged to  
take advantage of the technical skills, 
geographical presence, capabilities and 
experience that are available elsewhere  
in the group, in the development of their 
own operations. The Operating Review 
showcases some examples of our 
success in leveraging the benefits of 
being part of a larger group, an illustration 
of which was the collaboration between 
our enzymes, cereal extrusion and  
Agri businesses to deliver the new  
cereal extrusions factory at Evansville  
in the US which would not have been 
achieved by any of the individual 
businesses on their own.
Summary
Looking ahead to the next few years  
we see excellent prospects for Primark 
and further development of Grocery, 
Ingredients and Agriculture. We expect  
a further large reduction in profit for AB 
Sugar during 2014/15 and some volatility 
in the medium term with the reduction of 
excess stocks and as the sugar industry 
restructures. By the end of our 2015 
financial year much of the structural 
change in EU prices will be behind us and 
we have every reason to be confident of 
further progress for the group thereafter.
George Weston 
Chief Executive
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014
