 I am pleased to report growth of  
6% in adjusted earnings per share  
for the financial year.
CHAIRMAN’S  
STATEMENT
has confirmed the abolition of sugar 
quotas from October 2017, and world 
sugar prices have declined dramatically. 
We have seen increased competition as 
European producers position themselves 
for a post-quota market. This has driven a 
fall in prices which we expect to continue 
in 2015. We anticipate restructuring in  
the European sugar industry and, as the 
high stock levels are liquidated, we expect 
to see volatility in market prices. This 
structural change is painful, but AB Sugar 
has risen to challenges of this nature 
before, and does so this time with a 
programme of continuous performance 
improvement. We are one of the most 
efficient producers in the EU and will 
continue to take the neccessary action to 
ensure that we are well placed to operate 
in the post-quota environment.
We have a good track record of investing 
for the long term and this year was no 
exception with net capital investment of 
£691m, up from £600m last year. The 
higher level of capital expenditure was 
driven by a larger number of new Primark 
stores opened, or still to open but in the 
process of fit-out, during the year. The 
five-year investment programme at Allied 
Bakeries to create a state-of-the-art 
baking capability across the UK is now 
substantially complete and ensures the 
reliable supply of high quality bread to our 
customers. This programme also sets a 
new benchmark for standards of food 
safety in the bakery sector and has 
enhanced safety in our workplace. 
Cash flow was again stronger than the 
previous year driven by a working capital 
inflow more than offsetting the increase 
in net capital investment. Net debt at the 
year end was £358m lower than last  
year at £446m. With the group’s cash 
generating ability, the lower net debt  
and the committed borrowing facilities 
available, we have the capacity to  
meet our growth ambitions for the 
foreseeable future.
I am pleased to report growth of  
6% in adjusted earnings per share  
for the financial year. Significant 
progress was achieved in operating 
profit by Grocery, Agriculture, 
Ingredients and Primark, all of  
which substantially outperformed 
last year. Much lower sugar prices  
in the EU held back the group’s  
profit growth, although operationally  
Sugar performed well. Earnings  
also benefited from the strength  
of the group’s balance sheet and 
effective cash management which 
resulted in a much lower interest 
charge than last year.
The financial year was characterised by 
price deflation in many food commodities 
and a strengthening of sterling against our 
major trading currencies. The impact of 
this is evident in the lower revenues of our 
food businesses and, in this context, the 
profit growth in Grocery, Agriculture and 
Ingredients is all the more impressive. 
Grocery margin advanced with strong 
performances from Twinings Ovaltine  
and ACH Foods in the US and Mexico, 
and a further recovery in the bakery and 
meat businesses of George Weston 
Foods in Australia. Our yeast and bakery 
ingredients business, AB Mauri, is 
achieving a strong turnaround from 
the challenges of recent years with the 
promise of further improvement to come. 
AB Agri achieved another record result.
Primark had another magnificent year, 
increasing profit by 30% at constant 
currency and adding a net 1.2 million sq ft 
of selling space taking our total estate to 
over 10 million sq ft at the financial year 
end. Our highly successful entry into 
France this year brings the number of 
countries in which Primark operates  
to nine. Primark has now developed 
experience in establishing the brand  
in new markets and has achieved 
considerable trading success in each  
of them. We recently announced that  
the next new market would be in the 
north-east of the US, with the first stores 
expected to open late in 2015 and with  
up to ten stores by the end of 2016.
The results of our sugar operations reflect 
a major fall in EU sugar prices and a very 
low world sugar price. Looking back to 
2011/12, a shortage of sugar available for 
sale in the EU and relatively high world 
prices at the time drove EU prices to  
very high levels which clearly benefited 
our Sugar profit in that year. This was 
exceptional. Since then more sugar has 
become available, sugar stocks in the EU 
have risen, the European Commission  
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014
4
Introduction
Chairman’s statement Corporate responsibility
Last year we published a comprehensive 
Corporate Responsibility Report which 
outlined the close alignment between  
our values and good business practice, 
and highlighted our commitment to 
improving productivity and reducing 
waste. This report was well received by 
all of our stakeholders and updates are 
now available to reflect the achievements 
of the last 12 months. The report is 
available online at www.abf.co.uk/
responsibility. Of particular note is the 
further progress Primark has made in its 
ethical trade programme with an enlarged 
team of specialists, now located in seven 
countries, which is critical to supporting 
sustainable improvements within supplier 
factories. As a responsible business,  
AB Sugar is actively contributing to the 
debate about the role that sugar can play 
as part of a healthy, balanced diet, with  
its Making Sense of Sugar campaign.  
The board remains committed to the 
highest ethical standards across  
the group.
The board
The Senior Independent Director, 
Tim Clarke, was appointed to the board 
in 2004 and, in accordance with the  
UK Corporate Governance Code,  
having completed nine years’ service,  
his independence must be confirmed 
annually by the rest of the board.  
This having been done, we are delighted 
that Tim has agreed to continue as a 
member of the board and as the Senior 
Independent Director. 
Three other independent directors will 
complete nine years on the board in 2015 
and 2016. To avoid the possibility of a 
significant loss of experience in a short 
period we have temporarily expanded  
the board. Ruth Cairnie was appointed  
as an independent non-executive director 
with effect from 1 May 2014. Ruth was 
recently Executive Vice President Strategy 
& Planning at Royal Dutch Shell plc where 
she had also held a number of senior 
commercial roles gaining experience  
in European and emerging markets.  
We very much look forward to Ruth’s 
participation in the board’s deliberations.
Employees
I would like to thank all our employees  
for their contribution to the group’s 
success in the past year. Operational 
improvements have underpinned the 
increased profitability in Grocery and 
Ingredients, and have become part  
of everyday business at AB Sugar. 
Together with the excellent performances 
from Agriculture and Primark these 
results are a tribute to the dedication  
and commitment of our employees.
Dividends
I am pleased to report that a final dividend 
of 24.3p is proposed, to be paid on 
9 January 2015 to shareholders on the 
register on 12 December 2014. Together 
with the interim dividend of 9.7p paid on 
4 July 2014, this will make a total of 34.0p 
for the year, an increase of 6%.
Outlook
In the coming year, we expect Primark’s 
expansion to continue and Grocery, 
Ingredients and Agriculture to make 
further progress. With the continuing  
fall in EU sugar prices and volatility in the 
world sugar price we expect a further 
large reduction in profit from AB Sugar  
but this will put much of the effect of the 
structural changes in EU prices behind us. 
At this early stage we expect a marginal  
decline in adjusted operating profit for the 
group but the impact on earnings will be 
mitigated by much lower tax and interest 
charges. We therefore see limited 
opportunity to grow adjusted earnings per 
share in the new financial year. With the 
strength of the group’s balance sheet and 
strong cash generation, we have every 
reason to be confident of further progress 
for the group thereafter.
Charles Sinclair 
Chairman
5
Introduction
Chairman’s statement
