 12 Associated British Ports Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Group Chief Executive’s review
01
“Developments
announced during
2002 are consistent
with the group’s
strategy.”  13
Ports & transport – UK
Developments announced during 2002 are
consistent with the group’s strategy of growing
existing business and developing new business
through rigorously-targeted investment.
The group continues to focus on its core ports
and transport activities. The group’s main business
of operating its UK ports grew by 3 per cent in
2002, maintaining the positive momentum generated
over the previous two years.
The group intends to continue to concentrate
its capital investment programme on commercially-
attractive projects generating internal rates of
return of at least 15 per cent, supported by long-
term contracts with quality customers. This strategy
has ensured that over 50 per cent of the UK ports’
business over the next year is underpinned by
customer contracts. This stable revenue profile has
helped the group withstand the effects of the current
economic slowdown on trade volumes. Non-
revenue-earning or maintenance capital expenditure
continues to be monitored closely and contained
below the group’s annual rate of depreciation.
The locations of the group’ s UK ports constitute
a good geographical spread of risk. In addition,
no single type of cargo accounts for more than 10
per cent of the group’s UK ports turnover. 
This carefully-focused strategy has delivered
strong growth in underlying earnings per share
and an increase in the group’s return on capital
employed over the last three years.
Dibden Terminal, the group’s proposed deep-
sea container port development at Southampton,
supported by the substantial growth projected in
deep-sea container traffic, offers further
opportunities for growth. Container volumes through
the Southampton container terminal grew by 10
per cent in 2002. The public inquiry into the group’ s
application to develop Dibden T erminal commenced
in November 2001 and was completed on schedule
in December 2002. The government’s decision is
now expected either late this year or next year.
To accommodate increasing volumes of roll-
on/roll-off traffic, imports of coal and shortsea
container traffic, the group is looking to construct
further riverside terminals on the Humber Estuary,
where ABP owns and operates four ports – Grimsby ,
Immingham, Hull and Goole. These planned
facilities will remove the need for vessels to lock in
and out of ports, enabling quicker turnaround and
the accommodation of larger ships.
The major growth projects at Dibden Terminal 
and on the Humber will only be developed once
the group has secured customer contracts that
meet its investment criteria.
ABP Connect, which focuses on developing 
the value-added services that the group can offer
customers, has now been operating for
approximately 18 months. This division is an
extension of the ports and transport-related activities
in which the group already has considerable
expertise. ABP Connect has firmly established
itself in the market by operating and managing
Hams Hall Railfreight Terminal, Birmingham, and
by securing a major contract with HM Customs &
Excise for the storage of seized goods. The
group’s strategy is to consolidate the value-added
services that are provided in order to give them
greater focus and to realise their full potential.
ABP Connect has performed well, in line with
expectations.
The group continues to take a cautious view in
respect of strategic acquisitions. Activities closely
aligned with the group’s core business will be
considered, provided they meet the prescribed 
hurdle rate of return of 15 per cent for new capital
investment.
ABP is continuing to work with the UK
government with regard to anti-terrorism measures
in the wake of 11 September 2001. For security
legislation to be successful in the ports industry, 
it needs to be well focused on the immediate ship
and port interface and pay particular attention to
cargoes and facilities of strategic importance to
national security.
As part of the group’s ongoing programme of
managing its cost base, a further cost review was
undertaken towards the end of the year with the
intention of reducing future operating expenditure.
This resulted in a pre-tax exceptional restructuring
charge to the profit and loss account of £5.5 million
in 2002. It is estimated that the review will realise
savings of at least £3.0 million per year once the
programme of cost savings is fully implemented.
Ports & transport – USA
In September 2001, the group announced the
result of a review which it undertook in order to
determine whether the group’ s USA operations were
in line with its core business objectives. 
As a result of this review, the group decided
to retain AMPORTS USA’s Seaport division, which
is more closely aligned with the group’s UK port
operations, and to sell AMPORTS USA’s Aviation
division, subject to receipt of a satisfactory offer.
Following the terrorist attacks in the USA on
11 September 2001, the group deferred this
process until 2002. In July 2002, the group
announced that it had reached agreement for the
sale of this operation to subsidiaries of Macquarie
Global Infrastructure Funds for a cash
consideration of US$50.0 million. AMPORTS
USA’s Aviation division comprised 11 airport
operations and the sale of each was conditional
upon obtaining consents from the relevant airport
and regulatory authorities. The sale was fully
completed in December 2002. 
Developing AMPORTS USA’s Seaport division 
is part of the group’s growth strategy. New vehicle
-processing accounts won in 2002, combined with
new accounts won in the previous year, contributed
to vehicle-volume growth of 48 per cent year-on-year .
Disposal of non-core assets
The group will continue to sell non-operational
property and exploit the potential of its property
portfolio. However, those assets essential to
support the growth strategy in the main ports and
transport business will be retained.
As a result of property sales both income and
profit from investment property rentals fell.
However, the growth generated by the strategic
reinvestment of proceeds from non-core property
and land sales into the core ports and transport
business should compensate for this.
During 2002, the group sold a further £31.0
million of non-core property and land assets. This
brings the total amount of non-core property and 
land sold since 1 January 2000 to £169.0 million. 
The group remains on track to achieve its target
of £200.0 million for total non-core property and
land sales set at the beginning of 2000. The
group also received £71.0 million from the sale of
Red Funnel Group in 2000. Together with the
£32.0 million from the sale of AMPORTS USA’s
Aviation division, this brings the total amount of
non-core asset sales since 1 January 2000 to
£272.0 million.
02 03
01 The group’s main business – its UK ports
and transport operations – grew by 3 per cent
in 2002.
02 Investment at the Port of Grimsby included
the provision of additional car-storage facilities
for the Volkswagen Group.
03 The group is looking to develop further
riverside terminals on the Humber. 14 Associated British Ports Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Group Chief Executive’s review continued
Operational management
In April 2002, ABP’s operational-management
team was strengthened by the appointment of
Stephen Walsh as General Counsel. Stephen
was formerly Legal Director of British Airways plc.
Following the sale of the Aviation division,
Doug Tipton, Chief Executive Officer of
AMPORTS USA, agreed to step down from 
his post having spent three successful years
improving the performance of the group’s US
operations. He was succeeded at the beginning
of 2003 by Jim Davis, who has been at
AMPORTS for three years in senior sales 
and marketing and operating roles. Jim has
considerable experience in transport-related
businesses through his previous work for
Sealand, Mitsui OSK American Inc. and
Contship.
Mike Fell, OBE, ABP’s Port Director for 
Hull & Goole, will be retiring at the end of March
2003 after 32 years’ service in a distinguished
career that has seen the fortunes of the Port 
of Hull improve to become one of the UK’s
major ports. Douglas Morrison, currently Hull 
& Goole’s Deputy Port Manager, will succeed
Mike Fell, effective 1 April 2003.
Employees
The interests of the group’s employees
continue to be aligned to those of the group
through opportunities to acquire company
shares by way of share schemes and through
the payment of bonuses. In some areas,
notably those where individual performance 
can affect the group’s results significantly,
performance-linked bonus incentives are used
to reward achievement of specified targets. 
The group’s success is clearly dependent 
upon the continuing effort and ingenuity of 
our staff, who work hard to achieve the 
group’s aims.
The health and safety at work of the 
group’s employees and others affected by 
its activities is of paramount importance to 
the group. The group’s corporate policy on
health and safety is backed by strong
commitment from the board of directors and 
is based on the firmly-held view that injuries 
and cases of ill health, suffered at work, 
are preventable.
Corporate social responsibility
The group takes its corporate social
responsibility (CSR) seriously. We intend to
publish, for the first time, a separate CSR 
report later this year.
Future growth
Three major strengths of the group’s UK
ports business support its growth strategy. 
First, the geographic spread of its 21 ports
throughout the UK reduces the business’s
reliance on any one trade route. Second, 
as the group’s UK ports business handles a 
wide variety of trades, it is not dependent upon
any one type of cargo. Third, over 50 per cent
of the group’s UK ports business for the next 12
months is already under contract. These factors
lead to the belief that the group is well placed 
to make further progress during the course of
this year.
In the medium term, the opportunities to
invest in additional riverside terminals on the
Humber and at Dibden Terminal – the proposed
deep-sea container port development at
Southampton – together with regular expansion
at the UK ports, will provide a solid platform 
for future growth.
Bo Lerenius
Group Chief Executive
19 February 2003
