 06
Smart Metering Systems plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Thisisthefirstsetoff ul ly earr esul tssincethe
Compan y ’ sadmissiontotr adingonAIMon8July2011
raising £10m of gross proceeds. 
The  proceeds  of  the  float  have  strengthened  our
financial  r esour ces  enabli ng  the  Compan y  to  ac cel er ate
the organic growth of the business mainly based on 
connecting, owning, operating and maintaining gas 
meters and their associated databases on behalf of 
gas suppliers. 
I am pleased to report a solid set of results for the year 
ended 31 December 2011 and a positive outlook for 2012.
Financial highlights
The results for the year have been strong, with revenues 
incr easingb y29%to£16m,pr ofitf r omoper ations
bef or eex ceptionalitemsandfinancecostsincr easing
b y119%to£4 .5m,andpr ofitf r omoper ationsafter
ex ceptionalitemsandfinancecostsincr easingf r om
£0.9m to £3.3m.
I nadditiontothepr oceedsf r omtheIPOandcashflow
from operations of £4.9m (2010: £3.6m), the Company 
also secured additional bank borrowing to support 
further capital investment in meters which amounted 
to £9.2m in the year compared to £5.2m in 2010. 
At the year end our available resources including 
cashandborr owingf aci li tiesamountedto£14 .8m.
I am also pleased to announce that all major KPIs across 
our three business divisions were met and are detailed 
in the Chief Executive’s Review.
People
The move from a private to publicly listed company has 
involved a number of changes for SMS. I was delighted 
to accept the invitation to be Chairman in advance of 
the IPO. In addition, Nigel Christie has also joined the 
Board as a Non‑executive Director, bringing with him a 
weal thoffinancialandseniormanagementexperience.
We will keep the composition of the Board, including the 
possibility of appointing a further Non‑executive Director, 
u n d e r  r e v i e w duringthecurr entfinan cialy ear .
Chairman’s statement
Highlights
  The Company’s admission to trading 
on AIM raised £10m of gross proceeds.
  C a s h fl o wf r o mop e r a t i o n so f£ 4 . 9m
(2010: £3.6m).
  The Company also secured additional bank 
borrowing which amounted to £7.5m.
  Our available resources including 
cash and borrowing facilities amounted 
t o£ 1 4 . 8 m .
  All major KPIs across our three business 
segments were met.
  The Directors intend to declare a maiden 
dividend which we anticipate will be paid 
in November 2012 subject to performance.
Kevin Lyon
Chairman and Non‑executive Director
“ 2011 was an important year for 
SMSwi thi tsflotationonthe
London Stock Exchange.” 07
Smart Metering Systems plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Overview Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
A critical part of our operations is our people. We have 
an exceptional team and I would like to take this opportunity 
to thank them all for their efforts during the year. In the 
year of IPO, I would also like to thank the advisers that 
worked hard alongside the Company’s executive team 
to make it happen, in what can best be described 
as challenging markets. 
Strategy
The business activities are focused on managing the 
installation and registration of new meter assets onto 
our systems each year. Full revenue from the installed 
meters is realised the following year, installation and 
registration of new meter installations from the same 
overhead annually leads to compounding of recurring 
rental s  and  i ncreasi ng  of  r evenues  and  pr ofits, 
as  demonstr ated  i n  our  financi al  performance.
Annualised recurring rental is now £7.6m, Group net 
debt is £3.4m and we have £16m current available facility 
including £5.2m cash from operations to invest in 
meter assets. 
During 2012 the Company expects to increase banking 
facilities for the purpose of continuing to accumulate meter 
assets in the domestic market and, with the objective 
of establishing the ADM smart metering solution as the 
market standard in the I&C market, leading to further 
accumulation of meters.
No major investment in operations infrastructure is 
currently foreseen with systems operating at 5% capacity. 
The Company owns all intellectual property rights to 
its developed and fully deployed IT systems and new 
ADM smart metering solution focused on the I&C 
metering market.
Dividend
At the time of our admission to AIM, we stated that 
we intended to adopt a dividend policy that will take 
ac count  of  the  Compan y’ s  pr ofitabili t y ,  underl yi ng  gr owth
prospects and availability of cash and distributable 
reserves, while maintaining an appropriate level of 
dividend cover. 
Subject  to  the  Compan y’ s  conti nui ng  financial  perf ormance,
the Directors intend to declare a maiden dividend as a 
publi c  compan y  as  an  i nterim  divi dend  f or  the  financi al
year ending 31 December 2012, which we anticipate 
will be paid in November 2012. 
Outlook
SMS has a robust business model, a strong management 
team and leading smart meter technology which has 
been underlined by the strong set of results announced 
in this annual report.
2011w asanimportanty earf orSMSwi thi tsflotationon
the London Stock Exchange. This milestone has allowed 
the Board to support an ambitious strategy for growth 
in our core areas, in developing new and exciting 
markets by product and geography and by providing 
thefinancialstr engthandflexibi li t ytotak eadv antage
of new opportunities as they arise. 
2012 has, to date, delivered on that strategy through 
the ongoing accumulation of meter assets installed 
on request of the Company’s existing gas supply 
clients, and very positive conclusion on the trialling of the 
Company’s smart meter technology. This has allowed 
the Company to further strengthen the quality of the 
management team in key areas. I look forward to 
a successful year ahead with a strong performance 
against challenging KPIs, a dedicated and motivated 
teamand,mostimportantly ,asatisfied,lo y aland
expanding client base.
Kevin Lyon
Chairman and  
Non-executive Director
“ 2012 has, to date, seen increasing meter 
installation run rates, new clients, and 
very positive progress on the trialling of 
the Company’s smart meter technology.” 
