 08
Smart Metering Systems plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Chief Executive’s review
Highlights
  We managed the installation of over 
39,000 meters on request of the 
Company’s 15 gas supplier clients.
  Domestic meters increased by over 19% 
and I&C meters by over 14%.
  In 2012 we aim to accelerate growth in 
domestic meters and focus on becoming 
the preferred partner to our 15 existing 
gas supplier contracted clients in the 
I&C market through our ADM smart 
metering solution.
  We are currently seeing increased meter 
installation run rates in the domestic market.
  Our ADM smart metering solution has 
successfully trialled over the last two 
years with our gas supplier clients and is 
now a proven robust solution for the I&C 
metering market.
I am pleased to report that SMS has made a strong 
start as a listed company. These results are testament 
to the quality of our clients, our people and our ability 
to deliver relevant and valuable solutions to support 
our clients’ businesses. 
Our business
Our business operation is based on connecting, 
owning, operating and maintaining metering systems 
and databases on behalf of major energy companies. 
Our core focus is on gas meters in the UK, where we 
aim to:
 — be the market leader in the independent ownership 
of industrial and commercial meters;
 — establish ADM as the industry standard smart 
metering solution for industrial and commercial 
(I&C) clients; and
 — grow our domestic meters business organically 
and potentially through new contracts. 
We will also seek out new domestic and international 
markets for our products and services to widen our footprint 
in the UK and establish an international presence.
Business performance
Gas connections 
Our Gas Connections business is a transactional support 
services business which manages new gas connections 
and meter installations for our clients. The business acts 
both as a steady and consistent revenue stream in its 
own right and as an important feed into our Meter Asset 
Management business. 
In 2011, we continued to support both contracted and 
non‑contracted energy clients by undertaking over 
1,333 connections, a similar level to the year before.
Meter asset management
Our Meter Asset Management business works across 
both the domestic and I&C gas markets working on 
perpetuity, index linked contracts. We own, operate 
and manage meter assets on behalf of our clients, 
securing revenue through a rental of the meter asset 
to gas suppliers. 
For more information visit 
www.sms-plc.com
Alan Foy
ChiefEx ecutiv eOfficer
“ Activities are focused on accumulation 
of recurring annual rental from gas 
meters. This activity is automated 
and currently operating at 5% system 
capacity with 254,000 meter assets.” 09
Smart Metering Systems plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Overview Business review
In 2011, our total meter portfolio increased by 
19% to 254,000. At 31 March 2012 the portfolio was 
265,000. This was achieved by an increase in capital 
investment in meter assets of 77% to £9.2m, delivering 
a recurring rental income increase of 51% to £6.6m. 
At 31 December the annual equivalent recurring rental 
income was £7.6m.
Asset accumulation
In 2011 the Company was delighted to welcome new 
gas supplier clients, increasing our base of major clients 
to15r epr esentingo v er80%oftheI&Cmetersmark et.
In 2012 we will continue to focus on accumulation of 
meter assets organically and potentially through new 
contract wins.
TheCompan yhasseenasignificantincr easethusf arin
2012 in our domestic meter installation run rate secured 
from existing gas supplier clients.
The ADM smart metering solution has been designed to 
the exacting requirements as requested by the Company’s 
existing client base for the I&C market and, following trials, 
is now an established proven solution. 
The objective is to add a further recurring meter rental 
income to the Company from the provision of data 
services, generated by the installation of the ADM device 
to I&C meters by gas supplier customers. Additionally 
however, a new meter is intended to be installed at the 
same time as an ADM device installation, thereby further 
increasing the Company’s meter asset portfolio in this 
market segment.
Data management – ADM
SMS has developed a cost effective and reliable data 
collection solution incorporating a smart meter device 
called ADM, principally aimed at the I&C market. The 
device has been granted preliminary European patent 
appr o v alandsaf et ycertificationf oroper ationinthe
most hazardous environments and has been trialled 
by three major energy suppliers in the UK during the 
course of 2011. 
Our approach
We have a strategy to deliver 
strong growth.
1
Increase growth rate
Increase our penetration in ownership 
and management of gas meters in both 
residential and I&C metering markets.
Grow domestic gas market in the UK. 
Increase growth rates in meter asset 
ownership with gas supplier clients.
 —  Ov er  80 %  o f  t h e  I & C  m e ter i n g  m a rk e t  is
potentially available through contracted 
arrangements with our 15 existing gas 
supplier clients
 — Current IT platform operates at less 
than 5% capacity
2
Upsell the ADM smart 
metering solution
Establish ADM as the industry standard 
smart metering solution for the I&C 
metering market.
Upsell the ADM smart metering solution 
to existing contracted gas suppliers to 
accelerate meter asset ownership.
3
Explore new opportunities
Explore future prospects to expand the 
range of solutions and services to all utility 
markets within the UK and internationally. 10
Smart Metering Systems plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Chief Executive’s review continued
Business performance continued
Data management – ADM continued
A key advantage of ADM is that it does not require 
pre‑installation programming and is very much ‘plug 
and play’. Supported by a comprehensive IT solution, 
the ADM device will provide an important source of 
new income and act as a feeder into the meter asset 
management business, in a similar way to our gas 
connections business.
Following extensive trials we can now provide clients 
with a proven full service offering incorporating installation 
of gas meters through to advanced metering services 
providing many opportunities for the Company to build 
further value from its existing client base.
The market for I&C meters which represents an estimated 
1.6m clients has two distinct options with respect to 
advanced or smart metering. Up to 2014 small I&C 
meter clients have the opportunity to opt for an 
advanced metering solution such as the ADM device 
or alternatively be included in the proposed domestic 
roll out of smart meters. The Company believes that this 
market segment is attractive for implementing the ADM 
solution and will increase marketing efforts in this area 
throughout 2012.
Gas suppliers have already got a licence condition 
to install advanced meters, such as the ADM device 
to large meters, combined with large consumer group 
portfolios the Company estimates these immediately 
addr essablemark etstobear ound378,000meters.
Further expansion to new areas 
During 2011 we established that the ADM device was 
a suitable technology for other market sectors such 
as water meter data collection. We have had early 
success and are currently trialling the ADM device 
in the I&C sector. 
The addressable market is large and estimated 
at 1.6m units.
People
Asignificantpartofourbusinesspr oposi tionhasalw a ys
focused on how we interact with our clients through 
attention to detail and excellent customer service. 
These core values have underpinned our business 
since its inception in 1995. 
Our team
It is the dedication and professional work ethic of our 
team that has provided the strongest of foundations 
for the successful growth of our business and I wish 
to thank all those individuals that have fostered our 
key relationships with clients over the years.
Several of our clients are now celebrating ten years 
working with SMS. The trust developed over such long 
periods has helped us accumulate our meter portfolio 
to date. This strong growth is anticipated to continue 
through 2012 and beyond. Throughout the course 
of this review, I have highlighted areas where we will 
focus our efforts and, as always, keeping true to our 
core values within a dedicated and professional team 
will be important in the delivery of targeted growth. 
We look forward to many more milestones achieved 
throughout 2012.
Alan Foy
Chief Executive Officer
“ The Company has built a strong 
track record of identifying business 
opportunities, nurturing them and 
creating results.” 11
Smart Metering Systems plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Corporate governance Financial statements Overview Business review
1
Easily installed by 
non-technical operators
No on site programming, just activate with 
a ‘fob’, this eliminates human error in data 
entry during commissioning and training 
of workforces to perform installations.
2
Fits directly to 
any pulse enabled
 — Standard U6 to U160 gas meter
 — Rotary or turbine gas meter
 — Water meter
 — Electricity pulse output meters
4
Low cost
Installed easily in around 30 seconds with no 
requirement for programming components 
increases reliability and lowers cost.
3
Integrated into BMS 
and in-home displays
Output can be repeated to other 
appliances and to mobile devices seamlessly.
5
Web delivered 
communication 
of meter reads
Delivers half hourly usage information 
daily, weekly or monthly.
ADM smart metering solution
ADM is a bespoke metering solution tailored 
to the I&C gas and water meter markets 
that dovetails with our clients’ systems.
The inventive steps are ‘plug and play’ and ‘no manual 
commissioning’ enabling installation anywhere within 
around 30 seconds and thereafter delivering low‑cost, 
reliable half hourly meter reads and consumption alerts. Patent pending WO 2010041062
