 STRATEGIC REPORT
Smart Metering Systems plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 08
REVIEW OF THE YEAR
2014 has been a year of expansion and firsts for SMS, 
putting the business in good stead as we now enter our 
20th anniversary year. In the first half of the year, SMS 
established its electricity service offerings within both 
segments and welcomed 168 new colleagues through the 
acquisition of UPL on 14 April 2014. During the second half 
of the year, SMS appointed Rhys Wynne as Chief Operating 
Officer (COO) of the Company, a new role created following 
the UPL acquisition. SMS is delighted with the success of the 
UPL integration, which has helped secure contract extensions 
or additions from a number of major customers, including 
BES Utilities (BES), British Gas Business (BGB), DONG 
Energy Services Limited (DONG), Opus Energy (Opus) 
and Total Gas & Power Ltd (TGP). SMS and our customers 
are already clearly benefiting from the Company’s full 
end-to-end dual fuel service. 
OUR BUSINESS
I am pleased to confirm SMS has continued to make 
considerable progress in 2014 across all segments 
of the business.
Through the establishment of SMS’ Electricity, SMS has a 
clearly defined growth strategy in the gas and electricity 
supplier markets, positioning the business to fulfil our vision 
of becoming the leading independent provider of metering 
services to the utility sector with the highest level of 
customer service. Together with the potential to establish 
ADM™ as the industry standard smart metering device, 
the Group has a very promising outlook. 
SMS has consistently demonstrated year-on-year growth 
and has an established and growing market position in the 
UK smart metering market. The business strategy in the 
medium term is to maintain high levels of service to customers 
in the gas and electricity supplier markets, increase the run 
rate with these customers and continue to grow the meter 
asset portfolio.
The UK meter assets business presents a large market 
opportunity with a substantial proportion of an estimated 
1.6 million I&C meters in the UK to be exchanged for a smart 
metering solution by 2020 with the added potential of a 
domestic market roll out of some 22 million gas meters, 
and in the electricity market this is estimated to be 2.1 million 
I&C meters and 27 million domestic meters. 
The order book for the ADM™ device has continued to grow 
and our current gas and electricity supplier contracts provide 
potential access to over 80% of UK I&C gas meters and 40% 
of residential gas meters. International trials of ADM™ overseas 
in gas, electricity, water and LPG markets continue, where 
we remain encouraged by the progress.
Chairman’s statement
HIGHLIGHTS
 › Considerable progress 
across all segments
 › Established electricity 
service offering 
 › Expanding order book with 
key gas suppliers in the I&C 
market for meter assets 
and ADM device
Paul Dollman
Non-executive Chairman Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Smart Metering Systems plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 09
Our priority in 2015 and beyond is to focus on our three 
strategic areas:
 › grow our domestic meters business organically and 
through new contracts with an emphasis on driving 
recurring income;
 › establish our ADM™ technology as the industry standard 
smart metering solution for I&C clients; and
 › increase levels of business with, and services provided to, 
key gas and electricity suppliers, with a focus on cross-selling 
between the Gas and Electricity across our horizontal 
suite of services.
SMS has developed a strong and evolving business model 
and strategy that provides the most effective scope for 
continued expansion of the business to reward our customers 
and shareholders. 
PEOPLE AND CORPORATE CULTURE 
The acquisition of UPL this year marked SMS’ first-ever 
acquisition. It also marked the coming together of two 
companies that have very similar histories and share the 
same values, culture and approach to customer service. 
It was paramount that for any sort of acquisition to take 
place it needed to be one that maintained SMS’ culture 
based on a commitment by its employees to know and 
serve their customers. 
This has been instrumental in developing, building and 
maintaining trusted relationships with our customers, the 
gas and now also electricity suppliers, who have responded 
positively to the acquisition of UPL. Our core values around 
good counsel, prudence and wisdom have ensured we 
continue to maintain these strong relationships.
Equally important in terms of operational performance is how 
our IT systems and compliance management work with the 
gas and electricity suppliers. These are integral to how we 
achieve customer satisfaction and the building of a trusted 
relationship. We are excited to be driving forward our strategic 
vision, values and culture through our enlarged team 
and strengthened senior management.
BOARD COMPOSITION
The Board comprises five directors, of whom three are 
Non-executive with me as your Non-executive Chairman. 
We have sought to build our Board structure to ensure 
we have a balanced Board and in the first half of 2014 we 
welcomed two new Non-executive Directors, Miriam Greenwood 
and Willie MacDiarmid, while Nigel Christie retired from the 
Board as a Non-executive Director. The Board would like to 
thank Nigel for his very significant contribution to the Company. 
Energy and corporate finance expert Miriam Greenwood 
is Chair of SMS’ Audit Committee and energy sector 
expert Willie MacDiarmid is Chair of the Company’s 
Remuneration Committee.
Miriam is a qualified barrister and has spent much of her 
career in corporate finance working for a number of leading 
investment banks and other financial institutions. She is a 
Non-executive Director of a number of companies and was, 
for nine years until 2013, a Non-executive Director of the Gas 
and Electricity Markets Authority (OFgem), for whom she is 
currently Chair of the Gas Network Innovation Expert Panel. 
A Deputy Lieutenant of the City of Edinburgh, Miriam was 
awarded an OBE for services to corporate finance in 2000. 
Willie is a reputed senior executive in the energy sector, 
with experience at the highest level with the last two UK 
governments on a variety of strategic and operating 
working groups. As a member of the Scottish Power 
executive team, he successfully led Scottish Power through 
the deregulation of the UK energy market and served 
on their investment committee, and was involved in various 
mergers and acquisitions. Scottish Power’s successful 
metering business was part of his portfolio.
OUTLOOK
Under Alan Foy’s leadership, the expanded dual fuel offer, 
our strengthened senior management and the expertise 
of our Non-executive Directors, alongside our robust IT 
infrastructure, SMS is ideally positioned to maintain our 
competitive advantage and continue to make progress on our 
strategic priorities. 
As we continue to invest in providing the highest levels of 
service to the gas and electricity supplier markets we remain 
confident on the outlook for the business and we view the 
outlook for the market in 2015 as highly promising for our 
business model.
Paul Dollman
Non-executive Chairman
