 STRATEGIC REPORT
Smart Metering Systems plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 10
We are delighted with the continued strong performance 
of the business for the year ended 31 December 2014. 
Recurring income now represents 53% of our total revenue 
compared to 49% of total income in 2013, as we see the 
benefits of our business model of building up the recurring 
income streams. The recurring revenues are as a result of 
the long-term nature of our contracts, which provide an 
index-linked revenue stream. 
ACQUISITION OF UPL
On 14 April 2014, SMS acquired the entire issued share 
capital of UPL. With this acquisition SMS has doubled the 
number of recurring income streams and we are growing 
the electricity meter portfolio, further increasing our 
recurring rental revenue. 
The acquisition is in line with the strategic vision of SMS to 
become the leading independent supplier of smart metering 
solutions to suppliers in the utility sector with the highest 
levels of customer service. 
UPL is now operationally fully integrated into SMS resulting 
in additional income streams across both segments and is 
driving acceleration of the overall strategic vision of SMS’ 
enlarged business in three key areas:
 › drive growth opportunities through connections, metering 
and data management services to an expanded gas and 
electricity customer base;
 › position our business as a dual gas and electricity 
meter provider for the UK’s future smart meter roll out 
programme; and
 › provide further opportunities to expand internationally.
In the first year of acquisition SMS has already added clients, 
including DONG Limited and TGP, to our Electricity division 
and extended existing contracts. UPL’s existing portfolio 
included customers such as Centrica, SSE and EDF, as well 
as Network Rail, Vodafone, Santander, Sainsbury’s, O2 UK 
and Cable & Wireless.
In addition to contract wins and extensions already 
secured through the dual fuel gas and electricity service 
offering, there is the further potential to work with new 
water industry customers. 
SMS also believes there is scope to expand internationally 
through UPL’s energy management propositions already 
established in Italy and the Caribbean and SMS’ ADM™ device, 
which is currently undergoing trials across three continents. 
Chief Executive Officer’s statement 
HIGHLIGHTS
 › Increase in recurring revenues
 › 29% increase in meter portfolio
 › Contract additions and extensions:
 › I&C
 › Domestic
 › Contracts in place with companies 
representing over 80% of the 
total I&C market and over 40% 
of the Domestic market 
 › Underlying earnings per share* 
increased by 77%
 › Final dividend of 1.88p per 
ordinary share
*  Underlying earnings per share is profit after taxation 
but before exceptional items and intangible amortisation, 
divided by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares in issue.
Alan Foy
Chief Executive Officer Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Smart Metering Systems plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 11
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
During 2014 we made substantial progress across all 
segments of the business. Following a strong first half where 
we saw our gas meter portfolio break the half-million mark with 
an increase of 65,000, growth accelerated in the second half 
to reach a total of 607,000 gas meters, with a further 73,000 
added or a 29% increase year on year. The number of electricity 
meters more than doubled to 12,000 from 5,000 in 2013, bringing 
our overall gas and electricity meter portfolio to 619,000. 
The progress we have made in establishing long-term recurring 
revenue was underlined by an increase in year-end annualised 
recurring meter rental revenue of 41% to £21.9m and data 
provision sales from our ADM™ device more than trebled 
to reach the £1m level. Through the establishment of our 
Electricity services we have added an additional two recurring 
revenue streams, where meter recurring rent doubled to 
£567,000 and data recurring income grew 29% to £2.7m. 
For the first time, recurring income now makes up the 
majority of our total revenue.
INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL METERS
We were delighted to announce a number of new contracts 
or contract extensions with major customers during 2014. 
We more than doubled our I&C gas meter portfolio to 65,000 
meters from 27,000 meters in 2013. In the gas market we 
secured a significant contract with BGB, while in the electricity 
market we won contracts with Opus and DONG Limited, 
both existing customers of SMS. More recently, in the first 
quarter of 2015 in the Electricity market, we were awarded 
contracts with BES Utilities and with TPG, part of Total S.A., 
which is a current client of our Gas services. 
The increase in customer base during 2014 now means that 
SMS has contracts in place with over 80% of the total I&C 
meter market.
Once installed, these meters will be on SMS’ long-term 
index linked contracts and will provide recurring revenue 
for the lifetime of the assets (expected to be 25 years).
The size of I&C meters is typically much greater than that 
of domestic meters and therefore the revenue per meter 
is substantially higher: the equivalent number of domestic 
meters for these 22,000 contracts would be in the order 
of 300,000.
ADM™
The ADM™ device is SMS’ advanced metering solution which 
allows for remote meter reading on a half-hourly basis and has 
been designed in line with our own customer requirements. 
SMS has deployed more than 2.5 times the number of ADM™ 
devices in the UK in 2014, up to 41,000 from 16,000 in 2013. 
The Company remains confident that its ADM™ device technology 
has a broad range of potential applications in gas, electricity, 
water and LPG markets and has been continuing with trials 
of the device internationally.
The ability of remote reading alongside SMS’ full service 
capability in the I&C market provides a major opportunity 
for the Company in extending the service we offer and the 
ability to seek out further markets for our overall service. 
As over the last two years, all new contracts announced in 
2014 allow for the introduction of the ADM™ device into I&C 
premises during meter replacement programmes.
DOMESTIC METERS
We grew our domestic gas meter portfolio by 24% 
from 437,000 in 2013 to 542,000 by 31 December 2014. 
Our combined gas and electricity full service offering has 
strengthened our position and SMS’ opportunity in the 
domestic meter market, ideally positioning the business for 
the current UK domestic smart meter roll out programme. 
While we are well placed to capitalise on this roll out of smart 
meters in the UK domestic market, our future strategic growth 
is not reliant on this taking place, either in terms of capturing 
market share or in terms of increasing revenue growth.
OTHER MARKETS
We were very pleased to announce during 2014 that 
following an extensive accreditation process the products 
SMS has developed for the UK water market have passed 
all tests and received full accreditation.
Alan Foy
Chief Executive Officer
