 STRATEGIC REPORT
Smart Metering Systems plc
Annual report and accounts 2013 08
REVIEW OF THE YEAR
Firstly, as the new chairman of SMS, I would like to thank my 
predecessor, Kevin Lyon, for his considerable contribution to the 
growth and development of the Group and on the successful 
flotation of the business on AIM. 
I am pleased to confirm SMS has continued to make considerable 
progress in 2013 in all three business areas.
Since SMS floated on AIM in 2011, the Company has continued to 
demonstrate year-on-year growth and has an established and growing 
market position in the UK smart metering market. The business strategy 
in the medium term is to maintain high levels of service to customers 
in the gas supplier market, increase the run rate with these customers, 
and continue to grow the meter asset portfolio. 
SMS has consolidated this position and invested heavily over the years 
in IT infrastructure to provide a strong foundation for growth with the 
gas suppliers in the market and has established long-term relationships 
based on the high levels of service it provides to its customers. This is 
reflective of the standards set by the management and employees 
with key gas suppliers.
SMS has a clearly defined growth strategy in the gas supplier market, 
and together with the potential to establish ADM™ as the industry 
standard smart metering device, the Group has a very promising outlook. 
During 2013, the Group continued to increase its recurring meter rental 
and expand the portfolio of gas meter assets in the face of competition 
from the market leader National Grid. The order book also continues 
to expand with key gas suppliers in the I&C market, with potential to 
grow this substantially further to increase SMS’ position in the market. 
The UK meter assets business presents a large market opportunity with 
a substantial proportion of an estimated 1.6m I&C meters in the UK to 
be exchanged for a smart metering solution by 2020 with the added 
potential of a domestic market rollout. 
The order book for ADM™ continued to grow and our current gas 
supplier contracts provide potential access to over 80% of UK I&C 
gas meters and 40% of residential gas meters. 
Our strategic vision is to be the leading independent provider of smart 
metering and data management solutions to suppliers in the gas sector 
with the highest levels of service. The way we achieve this must reflect 
the evolution in domestic and international markets as well as a 
prudent approach to our growth and return to shareholders. 
Our aim in 2014 and in future years is to focus on our three strategic 
priorities: grow our domestic meters business organically and through 
new contracts; establish our ADM™ technology as the industry standard 
smart metering solution for I&C clients; and increase levels of business 
with, and services provided to, key gas suppliers.
Paul Dollman
Non-executive Chairman
HIGHLIGHTS
 › Increase in recurring meter rental 
and expansion of portfolio of 
gas meter assets 
 › Expanding order book with key gas 
suppliers in the I&C market 
 › Continued growth in order book 
for ADM device 
Chairman’s statement Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Smart Metering Systems plc
Annual report and accounts 2013 09
We will also continue to trial ADM data services internationally in gas, 
electricity, water and LPG markets. 
We will achieve these goals by continuing to invest in providing the 
highest levels of service to the gas supplier market and investing in 
our research and development capability to ensure we maintain our 
competitive advantage. 
We also believe that during Alan Foy’s continuing leadership the Group 
has developed a strong and evolving business model and strategy that 
is well positioned to expand the business to reward our customers 
and shareholders. 
CORPORATE CULTURE 
SMS’ culture is based on a commitment by its employees to know their 
customers. This has been instrumental in developing, building and 
maintaining trusted relationships with our customers – the gas suppliers. 
Our core values around good counsel, prudence and wisdom have 
ensured we continue to maintain these strong relationships.
Equally important in terms of operational performance is how our IT 
systems and compliance management work with the gas suppliers. 
These are integral to how we achieve customer satisfaction and the 
building of a trusted relationship.
BOARD COMPOSITION
The Board comprises myself as Non-executive Chairman, and four other 
Directors, of which two are Non-executive. We have sought to evolve 
our Board structure to ensure we have a balanced board and welcome 
Miriam Greenwood who has recently joined us as a Non-executive 
Director of the Company. She is a qualified barrister and has spent 
much of her career in corporate finance working for a number of 
leading investment banks and other financial institutions. 
Miriam is a Non-executive Director of a number of companies including 
Henderson Global Trust plc, Mithras Investment Trust plc and the 
Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult Limited. She was, for nine years 
until 2013, a Non-executive Director of the Gas and Electricity Markets 
Authority (OFGEM) for whom she is currently Chair of the Gas Network 
Innovation Expert Panel. A Deputy Lieutenant of the City of Edinburgh, 
Miriam was awarded an OBE for services to corporate finance in 2000.
Miriam will bring considerable experience and knowledge to the 
management team and in particular will help with our work in 
corporate governance. 
OUTLOOK
The Group continues to make progress based on our strategic priorities 
and we view the outlook for the market in 2014 as very promising for 
our business model. 
Paul Dollman
Non‑executive Chairman
“ Our strategic vision is to be 
the leading independent 
provider of smart metering 
solutions to suppliers in the 
utility sector with the highest 
levels of service.”
