 04 Smith & Nephew 2002
Advanced wound 
management 30%
Orthopaedics 43%
Endoscopy 27%
Africa, Asia & 
Australasia 14%
America 56%
UK 8%
Continental 
Europe 22%
Our new products are driving our growth and 
setting new standards of care.
Chief Executive’s
statement
Market growth remains buoyant and
demographics and lifestyle trends remain positive.
Healthcare expenditure continues to grow in all 
our major markets. Technology is expanding the
marketplace through the growth of less invasive
and longer lasting surgical techniques and
implants. With the introduction of new orthopaedic
bearing materials, led by Oxinium from Smith &
Nephew, surgeons are increasingly treating
younger patient groups. New techniques
continue to simplify and make procedures faster,
and less invasive techniques in orthopaedics and
endoscopy are taking hold as patients increasingly
drive demand. Technology advancements in
treating hard-to-heal wounds are driving strong
growth in the active healing sector of the
advanced wound management market.
We aim to raise operating margins before
goodwill amortisation from 18% in 2002 to 21%
in 2005, moving half a percentage point closer 
to that goal in 2003 through improvements in
operational performance and product mix. At the
same time we will continue to invest in product
innovation, and in growing our sales teams by 
at least 10% a year for the foreseeable future.
Orthopaedics
Orthopaedics sales rose by an underlying 20%
and its performance continued to outpace the
market. Reconstructive implant sales grew 
by an impressive 20%, boosted by continued
Delivering sustainable growth
In 2002 our markets grew strongly – and once
again Smith & Nephew outpaced the industry. 
I am pleased to report excellent growth in our
Orthopaedics, Endoscopy and Advanced Wound
Management businesses.
We now have formidable teams in place and 
we are focused on three high-growth markets.
We bring truly innovative and differentiating
technologies that meet the needs of physicians,
patients and healthcare systems. We are
marketing our products ever more effectively
through expanded and specialised global 
sales forces.
Our underlying group sales increase was 14% in
2002. Sales in North America grew 15% and the
region now represents some 56% of the group’s
business. Sales growth in Europe was 12%,
reflecting increased healthcare spending and
ageing populations. Sales in the rest of the world 
grew 16%.
Product markets %
sales from ongoing operations
Geographic markets %
sales from ongoing operations Smith & Nephew 2002 05
Oxinium knee implants
His dream of early
retirement and new life 
of golf and sailing went
on hold as osteoarthritis
crippled his plans.
Frustrated by increasing
pain and lack of mobility,
he consulted his surgeon
for a solution. Thanks 
to bilateral Oxinium 
knee implants, this 
retired banker is back 
on course.
Our operational performance and product mix 
is constantly being refined to improve margins.
surgeon response to the additional Oxinium 
knee products launched in 2002. We once again
recorded industry-leading growth in this sector,
led by knee growth of 33%, 10% of which was
contributed by the introduction of our joint fluid
therapy product, Supartz. Hip sales grew by
17% led by continued growth in revision
procedures, increased penetration of our highly
cross linked polyethylene liners and continued
strength in our platform hip systems including
Synergy and Echelon. Trauma grew at 10%.
Sales pricing in Orthopaedics remained positive
by 2%. 
The Oxinium knee has been an outstanding
success since its launch in 2001. We have
continued to invest in the Oxinium programme
and Computer Assisted Surgery throughout the
year where we have received US regulatory
approval for hip, knee and trauma applications.
We have developed an Oxinium femoral head 
for hips and have already launched the product 
in 2003.
We are creating two divisions within our
orthopaedic business, Reconstruction and
Trauma. This initiative is aimed at sustaining 
our industry leading performance by improving
the focus on these separate market sectors. 
This structure will enable us to bring technology
to market faster and increase our customer
responsiveness and satisfaction. Each division
will have responsibility for developing global
strategy and its own product development,
marketing and sales functions. They will share
common manufacturing and support
organisations. The sales forces in major 
US cities will be specialised into separate
reconstructive and trauma units on a phased
basis beginning in the first quarter of 2003. 
Endoscopy
Endoscopy sales grew at an underlying 10% 
with strong growth coming from outside the US.
The company acquired the ORATEC minimally
invasive joint and spine business in the year,
which added 9% to sales growth and has given
us a leading position in radio frequency
technology in arthroscopy. 
Knee and shoulder ligament repair products
grew particularly strongly at 21% making the
group the market leader in arthroscopic repair.
New repair products were launched during the
year to strengthen our position in the arthroscopy
market, including TwinFix, a specialised shoulder
repair device. New bioresorbable screws for
ligament fixation performed well. ElectroBlade
has brought us a unique product that combines
simultaneous resection with coagulation of soft
tissue. We also introduced a bipolar cutting 
and ablation system for the Vulcan generator 
ElectroBlade Resector
From twenty years
experience as an
aerobics instructor, 
she understands the
importance of fitness in 
a well-balanced lifestyle.
That’s why, when she
suffered a torn ligament
in her right knee a year
ago, she wasted no time
agreeing to her doctor’s
recommendation for
minimally invasive
surgery. Due to reduced
pain and recovery time,
she was back at the gym
soon after the procedure
and enjoying the benefits
of a healthy lifestyle. 
