 02 Smith & Nephew 2002
TriGen
A summer time car crash
landed this university-
bound student on a
surgeon’s operating table
with a femoral fracture.
The less-invasive TriGen
femoral nailing system
helped to mend her
broken bone and
restored her to walking
so she could start the
autumn term in time.
Financial performance and dividend 
Group sales grew strongly, led by the
Orthopaedics business. Underlying growth of
14% was augmented by acquisitions, which
added a further 4%. Our drive to deliver innovative
products across all our businesses is paying off
and we are also benefiting from the past two
years’ sales force expansions. 
We achieved an ongoing operating margin 
before exceptional items of 16.5%, despite the
dissynergies of the restructuring divestments 
of this and last year. The underlying margin
increased by 0.7%. Before goodwill amortisation,
the margin was 18.1%. 
Investors continue to recognise the company’s
strength and share price growth potential. Smith
& Nephew was one of the UK’s best-performing
stocks in 2002, outperforming the FTSE 100 by
more than 20%.The recommended final dividend
is increased to 3.00p, making a total dividend 
for the year of 4.80p (4.65p in 2001).
People
Our people take pride in our products which
enable patients to regain their lives. They are an
extremely talented group of individuals and we
thank them for their commitment, creativity and
energy in serving the company and the medical
community.
In 2002 we achieved our targets within the
Orthopaedics, Endoscopy and Advanced 
Wound Management markets. Each of Smith 
& Nephew’s businesses strengthened its
positions in the markets in which it operates
through a combination of sales growth, new
products and technology acquisition. 
In March 2002 we acquired and have since
successfully integrated ORATEC Interventions,
Inc., establishing our Endoscopy business as 
a leader in radiofrequency technology and
minimally invasive spinal surgery. We also
acquired the remaining half of the Dermagraft
and TransCyte joint arrangements from
Advanced Tissue Sciences, Inc., gaining full
strategic control of those products. 
We disposed of our Rehabilitation business 
to AbilityOne Corporation also in March 2002,
retaining a 21.5% interest in the expanded
business. This focused the group on our three
chosen areas of expertise.
Chairman’s
statement
We have had another excellent year of growth
within each of our three businesses. Smith & Nephew 2002 03
TriVex procedure
She faces the same
problems every mother
does: dressing the kids,
making lunches, finding
time for herself. Faced
with an uphill battle of
another type – one
against unsightly, painful
varicose veins, she
received treatment with
the TriVex procedure.
She can now handle 
the challenges of
motherhood without the
added difficulty of leg
pain, which allows her
more time to concentrate
on what matters most –
her family.
We pay particular tribute to Larry Papasan 
for his valued contribution as President of the
Orthopaedics business. He retired at the end 
of 2002 and we welcome David Illingworth, 
who has joined us to lead the division to 
further success.
Board
Tim Lankester has chosen not to stand again 
for re-election to the Board and will be standing
down at the AGM in April. We thank him for 
his contribution over the last seven years. 
Corporate governance has been a priority 
over the past year – particularly as we are listed
on both the London and New York Stock
Exchanges. Smith & Nephew is committed to 
an open and constructive relationship with our
shareholders and the overall investment
community. We are working to comply with the
new US Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the ongoing
detailed guidelines being supplied by the 
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Outlook
The markets on which we focus continue to
demonstrate robust growth. Smith & Nephew 
is achieving sales growth that outpaces the
industry, and is demonstrating its ability to grow
share and position within the Orthopaedics,
Endoscopy and Advanced Wound Management
markets. In 2003, we will see the impact of 
our strong ongoing sales and profit growth
on our reported results without the impact 
of divestments. 
We have a leading range of technology and
products that repair and heal the human body.
We will maintain our progress by investing in 
new and differentiated technologies which bring
benefits to patients, and in the specialist sales
forces to bring these products to the medical
community. We will continue to invest in our
businesses by increasing sales force strength,
adding manufacturing capacity and enhancing
new product development to generate vigorous
growth. We will also acquire businesses or
technologies that strengthen our long term
prospects. 
We remain confident of delivering sustainable
growth and believe we are well placed to 
achieve our mid-teens underlying pre-goodwill
amortisation EPS growth target going forward.
Dudley Eustace
Chairman
We remain confident in our ability to deliver
sustainable growth for the future.
Dermagraft
A keen golfer, he has
suffered from diabetes 
all his life. He ignored 
a wound on his foot,
thinking it would clear 
up, but when he lost
sensation in his lower 
leg he finally went to see
his doctor. The foot ulcer
was so serious he was 
in real danger of having
the limb amputated. 
After 12 weeks of being
treated with Dermagraft,
a bio-engineered human
dermal replacement, 
he was out of the danger
zone and looking forward
to resuming his golf.
