 STRATEGIC REPORT
Smart Metering Systems plc
Annual report and accounts 2013 10
Chief Executive Officer’s statement 
We are pleased to announce another strong set of results for the year 
ended 31 December 2013. The results reflect the cumulative effect of 
the increase in meters and the increasing number of contracts signed 
during 2013. 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
During 2013 we made substantial progress in all three areas of our 
business. Following a strong first half where we saw our meter portfolio 
increase by 60,000 and break the 400,000 level, growth accelerated in the 
second half with a further 69,000 added leading to a 38% increase 
year-on-year in our gas meter portfolio. The progress we have made in 
establishing long-term recurring revenue was evidenced by an increase 
in year-end annualised recurring meter rental revenue of 44% to £15.5m 
and £300k data provision sales from our ADM™ device.
INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL METERS
During 2013 we were delighted to announce a number of major 
new contracts for the provision of gas meters within DONG Energy, 
Opus Gas Supply, Flow Energy, Daligas, and Crown Gas and Power. The 
current estimates are for a total programme in excess of 22,000 meters 
to the end of 2014, of which over 2,000 had already been delivered by 
31 December 2013.
In addition, SMS has also signed contracts with five energy brokers who 
provide brokerage and energy management services to small, medium 
and large group consumers for the provision of the ADM™ device and 
gas meters. The broker business is at present a small but growing part 
of our portfolio. The increase in customer base during 2013 now 
means that SMS has contracts in place with over 80% of the total 
I&C meter market.
Once installed, these meters will be on SMS’ long-term index linked 
contracts and provide recurring revenue for the lifetime of the assets 
(expected to be 25 years).
The size of I&C meters is typically much greater than that of domestic 
meters and therefore the revenue per meter is substantially higher: 
the equivalent number of domestic meters for these 22,000 contracts 
would be in the order of 300,000.
Our transactional gas connections business continues to be cash 
generative and to secure gas meter ownership for the Group; it has 
performed in line with management expectations.
ADM™
The ADM™ device is SMS’ advanced metering solution which allows 
for remote meter reading on a half-hourly basis and has been designed 
in line with our own customer requirements. 
SMS has now installed over 16,000 ADM™ devices and feedback 
continues to be very positive. The ability of remote reading alongside 
SMS’ full service capability in the I&C market provides a major opportunity 
for the Company in extending the service we offer and the ability to 
seek out further markets for our overall service. 
Alan Foy
Chief Executive Officer
HIGHLIGHTS
 › Substantial progress across all 
strategic areas
 › 38% increase in meter portfolio
 › Major new contracts signed:
 › I&C
 › Domestic 
 › Energy brokers 
 › Contracts in place with companies 
representing over 80% of the total 
I&C market and over 40% of the 
Domestic market 
 › Basic earnings per share increased 
by 52%
 › Final dividend of 1.61p per 
ordinary share Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Smart Metering Systems plc
Annual report and accounts 2013 11
As in 2012, all new contracts announced in 2013 allow for the 
introduction of the ADM™ device into I&C premises during meter 
replacement programmes.
The Department of Energy & Climate Change (DECC) has recently 
announced a delay in the start of the UK domestic smart metering 
programme. The Company believes, however, that the small I&C market 
will be largely unaffected by this delay as suppliers are already rolling 
out advanced solutions for commercial reasons to allow their customers 
to benefit from being able to manage their energy bills at the earliest 
practicable date rather than waiting until they are mandated to install 
smart meters. Based on the ADM’s competitive price and ease of 
installation and the ongoing increase in the Company’s meter portfolio, 
SMS expects to benefit from this delay and also to be well placed when 
the mandated smart metering programme occurs.
The large I&C market, estimated by SMS to be over 600,000 meters, has 
to move to an advanced metering solution, with around 60,000 of the 
very large category having to be completed or contracted by 2014.
The small I&C market, estimated by SMS at over 1.1m meters, has until 
2014 to either opt for an advanced metering solution such as the ADM™ 
device or, alternatively, to be included in the government’s proposed 
domestic roll out of smart meters.
SMS believes that both market segments will find the ADM™ device an 
attractive solution, based on its competitive price and ease of installation.
The Company received full European Patent Approval for ADM™ in 
2012 and continues to progress the potential use of the ADM™ device 
in other sectors such as the UK’s water and LPG industries and 
internationally where trials have commenced.
DOMESTIC METERS
SMS was successful during 2013 in obtaining 2 further contracts in the 
domestic market. As previously announced SMS has been contracted 
by SSE to provide Meter Operations Services in all regions outside 
Scotland and the South-East of England up to April 2014, and is on 
track to complete the original 180,000 meter programme.
SMS will continue to support its existing and potential new customers 
in the domestic market for gas meter services, leaving the business well 
placed to support our customers in the domestic smart programme, 
now expected to commence in the autumn 2015. 
We are well placed to capitalise on the this potential roll out of smart 
meters in the domestic market, though our future strategic growth is 
not reliant on this taking place, either in terms of capturing market 
share or in terms of increasing revenue growth.
Alan Foy
Chief Executive Officer
“ In 2013, we announced major 
new contracts to provide gas 
meters with DONG Energy, 
Opus Gas Supply, Flow Energy, 
Daligas and Crown Gas and 
Power. The overall increase 
in the customer base means 
we have contracts in place 
with over 80% of the I&C 
meter market.”
38%
increase year-on-year in our gas meter portfolio
52%
increase of basic earnings per share
