 overview strategy and performance
mark etplace and 
business segment re view
susta inability 
review
f inancial review  
and prin cipal risk s
c orp orate  
g ove rnance
accou nts and  
other information
section 1 o verview 5
Chairman’s statement
Dear shareholder ,
Smith & Nephew made good progress in 2012, both 
financially and strategically, as we delivered on our 
commitments to reshape the Company. 
Our underlying revenues were up 2% to $4,137m, with 
reported revenue reflecting the successful transaction 
to create Bioventus. Trading profit was up 6% underlying 
at $965m, giving an 80 basis points increase in trading 
profit margin, which was up at 23.3%. Free cash flow, at 
$637m, was again healthy, demonstrating the vitality of 
our business.
This performance shows the effects of the major strategic 
programme announced last year to make Smith & 
Nephew fit and effective for the future. Throughout the 
year we made great progress driving efficiencies and 
liberating resources. This has allowed us to invest to 
realise the opportunities we see in our higher growth 
markets and sectors. 
We have achieved all this and maintained our commitment 
to health and safety, ethics and the environment. 
Enhanced returns for shareholders
Our financial strength – and confidence in continued 
strategic progress – enabled the Board to review the 
dividend policy during the year. 
As a result, we increased the level of the Interim Dividend 
payment by 50% to 9.9¢ per share. The Board is pleased 
to propose a Final Dividend for the year of 16.2¢ per share, 
also up 50% on 2011. We intend to pursue a progressive 
dividend policy going forward.
Board changes
We were very pleased that Julie Brown joined us as Chief 
Financial Officer in February 2013. She brings top-level 
financial expertise, commercial experience and a deep 
knowledge of the healthcare sector. Julie replaces Adrian 
Hennah who left with our very best wishes and thanks for 
his significant contribution to Smith & Nephew. 
We have also welcomed two new Non-Executive Directors 
during 2012. Ajay Piramal is one of India’s most impressive 
businessmen and Baroness Bottomley brings a wealth of 
experience from her successful career across both private 
and public sectors. We said farewell to Rolf Stomberg and 
Geneviève Berger, who we also thank for their valuable 
input.
In April, we shall welcome Michael Friedman to our 
Board who is renowned for his US healthcare expertise, 
in particular gained leading the prestigious City of Hope 
cancer institution in California. 
Thank you
My Board colleagues and I visited a number of our global 
sites during the year. We welcome these opportunities to 
meet our employees, and would like to thank everyone at 
Smith & Nephew for their continued dedication to serving 
our customers.
We are also fortunate to meet and hear from shareholders 
regularly, both institutional and private. Your support and 
feedback are both appreciated, and continue to inform 
our thinking. 
Smith & Nephew is evolving. We are already seeing the 
material benefits of our choices and actions. There is 
much more to come and we look forward to continuing 
to build ever more value for you into the future.
Sir John Buchanan
Chairman
“ Our financial strength – and confidence in continued  
strategic progress – enabled the Board to review the  
dividend policy during the year.”
015914_Smith&Nephew_AR12_p1-09 (Working Copy).indd   5 26/02/2013   09:26 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 6
Strategy and performance 
This section outlines the Group’s 
growth strategy, and what has been 
done to deliver against this strategy.
2
Creating sustainable value 7
Chief Executive Officer’s review of strategy 8
How the Group measures its strategic performance 16
015914_Smith&Nephew_AR12_p1-09 (Working Copy).indd   6 26/02/2013   09:26
