 Chairman’s statement
“Smith & Nephew made 
good progress last year , 
delivering strong earnings 
growth and enhanced  
value to shareholders. ”
Dear Shareholder ,
I joined Smith & Nephew in December 
2013, and succeeded Sir John Buchanan as 
Chairman	in	April	2014.	In	my	first	letter	to	you	
I am pleased to report that Smith & Nephew 
made good progress last year, delivering 
strong earnings growth and enhanced value 
for shareholders. We did this whilst making 
major investments to reshape the Group for 
future success such as the acquisition of 
ArthroCare Corporation for $1.5 billion net. 
Revenue was $4,617 million, up 2% on an 
underlying basis or 6% on a reported basis. 
Trading	profit	was	$1,055	million,	up	3% on an 
underlying basis or 7% on a reported basis. 
The	trading	profit	margin	of	22. 9% was 20bps 
up on the previous year. The Board is pleased 
to propose a Final Dividend for the year just 
gone	of	18.6¢	per	share,	giving	a	total	dividend	
for 2014 of 29.6¢,	up	8% year-on-year.
Board changes
Sir John Buchanan retired as Chairman in 
April at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, 
after nine years of outstanding service. On 
behalf of the Board and the whole of Smith  
& Nephew I thank him for his leadership. 
Richard (‘Dick’) de Shutter also retired at the 
Annual General Meeting. In his role as Senior 
Independent Director, Dick provided wise 
counsel	through	a	period	of	significant	growth	
and change. Ajay Piramal retired in March, 
having provided valuable insight into the 
emerging markets as we built our presence 
there. Pamela Kirby retired from the Board 
in July. She also made a major contribution 
– particularly as Chairman of the Ethics & 
Compliance Committee. I thank Dick, Ajay  
and Pamela for their service.
It is a credit to the growing strength and 
reputation of the Company that we have 
attracted top global talent to succeed these 
individuals. Vinita Bali joined the Board in 
December following an impressive career at 
blue-chip global corporations such as The 
Coca-Cola Company in multiple geographies 
including India, Africa, South America, the US 
and UK. Her strong appreciation of customer 
service and marketing will bring deep insight 
to Smith & Nephew as we continue to develop 
innovative ways to serve our markets. Erik 
Engstrom, the CEO of Reed Elsevier , joined the 
Board in January 2015. His understanding of 
how technology can be used to transform a 
business will be invaluable.
First impressions
My	first	impression	of	Smith	&	Nephew	was	
of a Company with strong leadership, a clear 
strategy	and	sound	financial	platform.	The	
open communication between the Board and 
the executive team is a real strength of the 
business. I was particularly impressed with 
the execution of the ArthroCare acquisition, 
especially the thoroughness of our due 
diligence and how well the team is managing 
the integration.
I have also been able to spend time visiting 
our sites and meeting employees, including 
attending a Sports Medicine procedure to 
witness how our highly-skilled reps assist 
surgeons in improving outcomes. I have 
consistently found a business with a strong 
culture, particularly in areas of ethics and 
compliance, and people who are proud of their 
work supporting healthcare professionals. 
Looking ahead I see many exciting 
opportunities – in the Established Markets 
where we are challenging the status quo 
through new commercial models, in the 
Emerging & International Markets where 
we have a leadership platform – and from 
recent acquisitions. In 2015, I believe we 
will	begin	to	see	more	clearly	the	benefits	
of the transformational work that has been 
undertaken at Smith & Nephew, and I look 
forward to sharing more news of these 
achievements next year . 
Yours sincerely,
 
Roberto Quarta
Chairman
5 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION
