 STRATEGIC REPORT
Chief Executive Officer’s review
A	good	financial	performance	while	
strengthening the business
Dear Shareholder
Smith & Nephew proudly supports healthcare 
professionals in their daily efforts to improve 
the lives of their patients. We do this by taking 
a pioneering approach to the design of our 
products and services, by striving to ensure 
wider access to our advanced technologies, 
and by enabling better outcomes for patients 
and healthcare systems. In doing so, we drive 
growth and create value for our stakeholders.
In 2014, we made great progress. We drove 
a much improved performance in US Hip 
and Knee Implants and maintained our 
momentum in Sports Medicine Joint Repair 
and Trauma & Extremities. Advanced Wound 
Bioactives, acquired at the end of 2012, again 
produced double-digit growth. Our continued 
investment in Emerging & International 
Markets drove revenues up 17%. 
Performance in Europe was weaker and 
Advanced Wound Management was held 
back by a distribution hold on RENASYS
◊
 
in	the	US,	and	I	am	confident	that	we	have	
taken actions that will deliver a better 
2015 across these areas. Additionally, 
the Phase 3 trial results for HP802 were a 
disappointment, but we remain committed 
to developing pioneering Advanced Wound 
Bioactives treatments.
The Group generated a good increase in 
revenues	and	trading	profit,	and	an	8% uplift 
in EPSA. I am pleased by the changing mix of 
the business, as we successfully rebalance 
by strengthening our higher growth platforms. 
These now represent more than half of our 
revenue, up from just 35% three years ago. 
Pioneering design
Smith & Nephew has a long history of 
pioneering design, dating back to our 
foundations	in	the	19th	century.	In	2014,	we	
launched many exciting products, including 
a cruciate retaining version of our JOURNEY
◊
II 
natural-motion	knee,	a	first-of-its-kind	
DYONICS
◊
 PLAN surgical planning tool for hip 
arthroscopy, and the HAT-TRICK Lesser Toe 
Repair System. We continued to invest more 
in R&D, over 5% of revenue, and have a strong 
pipeline for 2015 and beyond. 
“The journey to reshape  
Smith & Nephew continues  
and I am excited by our  
prospects for accelerating  
growth in 2015 and beyond. ”
6 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 For us, innovation is not just about products. 
It is also about how we do business. We seek 
new ways to serve our customers. In 2014, 
we pioneered a new commercial solution for 
Orthopaedic	Reconstruction	that	fulfils	the	
unmet needs of customers searching for a 
different value proposition. Called Syncera
◊
, 
this offers clinically proven primary hip and 
knee implants combined with cutting-edge 
technology to streamline the extensive 
support process. Syncera has the potential to 
generate	significant	savings	for	the	customer.	
We are encouraged by the contracts signed 
and prospective customers. 
Widening access
In the Emerging & International Markets 
we have built an entrepreneurial business 
resourced	to	maximise	the	significant	
opportunities we see. In 2014, it generated 
more	than	$600	million	revenue,	with	China,	
our largest market, growing revenue at over 
30%. 15% of Group revenue came from these 
markets	in 2014,	up	from	8%	in	2010.	
In 2014, we established a new commercial 
structure to market and expand our mid-
tier value product ranges. This will provide 
wider access to our advanced technologies, 
helping us support an ever greater number of 
customers in delivering affordable healthcare. 
Enabling better outcomes
We provide high quality products and 
medical education to help drive better clinical 
outcomes. During 2014, we saw strong and 
rising demand for unique products such as 
our hard-wearing VERILAST
◊
 Hips and Knees, 
VISIONAIRE
◊
 patient-matched instrumentation 
and the PICO
◊
 portable disposable 
Negative Pressure Wound Therapy system. 
These, and many other advanced Smith & 
Nephew products, also enable healthcare 
professionals to treat more patients faster, 
improving the economic outcome for the 
healthcare system payers. 
Strengthening our platform
In recent years, we have successfully 
supplemented our organic growth through 
acquisitions. Healthpoint Biotherapeutics  
gave us a leading position in Advanced 
Wound Bioactives, the fastest growing 
segment of Advanced Wound Management. 
We have also completed a number of 
acquisitions in the Emerging & International 
Markets, strengthening our platform by adding 
products, manufacturing, distribution  
and sales teams. 
ArthroCare, completed in May 2014, has 
strengthened our Sports Medicine business. 
Its	technology	and	products	significantly	
enhance our portfolio, and we will use our 
global presence to drive substantial new 
growth. The integration is progressing well.
Enhanced	efficiency	
By simplifying and improving our operating 
model we are increasing our agility and 
efficiency.	In	2011,	we	announced	a	
programme to generate annual savings of 
$150 million. By 31 December 2014, we had 
achieved annualised savings of $146 million, 
enabling investment in the Emerging & 
International Markets, R&D and other 
growth opportunities.
In 2014, we announced a further programme 
to realise at least another $120 million of 
annual savings. This work is progressing well. 
For instance, we are rationalising our global 
property portfolio and found major savings 
through better procurement processes.  
These	savings	will	more	directly	benefit	the	
bottom line. 
Great Place to Work
Achieving recognition as a Great Place to 
Work is important to me. It means having 
a workplace where employees are proud 
and excited to come each day because they 
are doing work that makes a difference for 
customers and patients. During 2014,  
I was proud to congratulate our colleagues 
in	Spain	for	being	the	first	country	to	achieve	
this distinction from the Great Place to Work 
Institute – and it will not be the last. Also, our 
sustainability performance was recognised 
again as we retained our rankings in both the 
FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability 
indices. Acting sustainably and responsibly 
to	deliver	long-term	benefits	to	society	is	
important. It is our employees who earn these 
awards, and I thank them for their efforts.
I am pleased with our momentum in 2014 as 
we	delivered	a	good	financial	performance	
while strengthening the business, and you will 
find	more	details	on	our	successful	actions	on	
pages 42 to 53. Whilst the journey to reshape 
Smith & Nephew continues, we enter 2015 
stronger	and	more	efficient	and	I	am	excited	
by our prospects for accelerating growth in 
2015 and beyond.
Sincerely,
Olivier Bohuon
Chief	Executive	Officer
Our results
22.9%
Trading margin
1
 up 20bps 
83.2¢
EPSA
1
 up 8% 
1	 Explanations	of	these	non-GAAP	financial	measures	 
are	provided	on	pages	176	to	179.
7 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION
