 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 8
Chief Executive Officer’s review of strategy
Our strategy
Smith & Nephew’s strategic priorities are about making 
choices for the long term benefit of the Group, delivering 
higher returns to shareholders than its peer group.
1
Established markets
In Established markets (US, Europe, Japan, Australia, New Zealand 
and Canada), Smith & Nephew sees opportunities to build upon 
existing strong positions, to win market share through greater 
innovation and drive efficiencies to liberate resources. Through 
these actions the Group seeks to meet the challenges of subdued 
markets and maximise both revenue growth and profit margins.
2
Emerging and 
International markets
Smith & Nephew believes it can secure market leadership 
in the Emerging markets, building upon its initial success in 
China and expanding to create sustainable businesses in 
India, Brazil and Russia. In particular, the Group sees significant 
opportunities to build value through augmenting its existing portfolio 
with new products specifically designed for, and manufactured in, 
these markets.
3
Innovate for value
The Group’s future success depends upon continuing to offer 
new technologies and innovative business models to customers 
around the world. Smith & Nephew is accelerating its rate of 
innovation by increasing the research & development budget 
and identifying and investing in the projects that will deliver 
maximum value.
4
Simplify and improve 
our operating model
Smith & Nephew will work to ensure the business structure and 
processes support our innovation agenda, and the Group seeks  
to maximise efficiency in everything it does. There are opportunities 
to streamline the Group’s operations and manufacturing processes 
and to remove duplication. Smith & Nephew is building strong 
global functions – human capital, regulatory, quality, compliance, 
sustainability, finance and legal affairs – to support its 
management teams in their quest to serve the Group’s markets 
and customers better.
5
Supplement organic 
growth through 
acquisitions
The Group aims to augment its organic growth through acquisitions. 
Smith & Nephew will continue with its successful strategy of 
acquiring complementary technologies, seek to support our 
Emerging markets ambitions by acquiring local manufacturing  
and distribution businesses and remain alert to larger opportunities 
to support expansion in attractive sectors, such as advanced 
woundcare, extremities or minimally invasive surgery.
015914_Smith&Nephew_AR12_p1-09 (Working Copy).indd   8 26/02/2013   09:26 overview strategy and performance
mar ketplace and 
business segment r eview
sust ainability 
review
f inancial review  
and pr incipal risk s
c or porate  
g o vernance
acco unts and  
other information
9 Section 2 Strategy and performance
Dear Shareholder ,
In August 2011, we announced an ambitious set of 
Strategic Priorities to make Smith & Nephew stronger, 
faster growing, better balanced and fit and effective for 
the future. Across the Group we are implementing this 
programme. We are investing in higher-growth products, 
franchises and geographies and adapting our commercial 
models and cost structure.
Emerging markets
In the Emerging markets we are delivering strong revenue 
growth, benefitting from our investments to strengthen the 
management team and sales force, and the successful 
registration of more of our existing products for sale. 
Our strategy is to build upon this platform by expanding 
our distribution capability and delivering portfolios for the 
mid-tier segments. We will develop these through our own 
R&D, and by acquisition, and we expect to bring our first 
products to market in 2013. 
We are also investing to ensure that all employees and 
third party representatives follow our Code of Conduct and 
local requirements. We have, what I believe to be, a world-
class compliance programme. Sharing this expertise is 
integral to building a sustainable business everywhere we 
operate. 
Investing for growth
In the Established markets we continue to successfully 
deliver a high rate of innovation. In 2012 we launched 
new hip, knee and trauma systems and more than 30 
advanced wound management products.  We increased 
our R&D budget, and expect to do so again in 2013. 
We are also putting more resources into our higher-growth 
franchises and geographies. In trauma and extremities 
our actions to refine the commercial model and build the 
sales force is delivering good results. In Japan we are 
strengthening our leadership position in advanced wound 
management following the launch of Negative Pressure 
Wound Therapy.  
These, and other investments like them, are possible 
because we are making Smith & Nephew more efficient. 
We generated annualised savings of around $100 million 
by the end of 2012 and are continuing to implement 
further improvements.  
Healthpoint Biotherapeutics
The acquisition of Healthpoint Biotherapeutics 
expands our platform by giving us a strong position in 
bioactives, the fastest growing area of advanced wound 
management. This perfectly complements our exudate 
and infection management and negative pressure 
expertise. The integration is proceeding to plan. 
Corporate social responsibility
Whilst working to transform Smith & Nephew, we have 
not lost sight of the importance of our social, ethical and 
environmental obligations. Our commitment to customers, 
patients, employees, shareholders and communities 
remains strong. In 2012 we again earned the distinction of 
being featured in both the FTSE4Good Index and the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Index. 
Delivering value 
In 2013 we are continuing to build, delivering efficiency 
improvements and accelerating investment – in our 
higher-growth portfolios, in geographic expansion, in 
more R&D and in further acquisitions. I am pleased at the 
progress we have made, excited about the opportunities 
that we see, and confident we will continue to deliver 
greater value for our company and stakeholders.
Olivier Bohuon
Chief Executive Officer
“ We are investing in higher-growth products, franchises and geographies 
and adapting our commercial models and cost structure.” 
015914_Smith&Nephew_AR12_p1-09 (Working Copy).indd   9 26/02/2013   09:26 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 10
1
Established  
markets
Focused on success
Within the Established markets we have dedicated 
management teams in Advanced Surgical Devices and 
Advanced Wound Management who are focused on 
meeting the needs of our customers. 
The formation of the Advanced Surgical Devices division 
– created through the combination of our endoscopy 
and orthopaedics businesses – delivered benefits at a 
slightly faster rate than expected. This new structure has 
allowed us to better share the benefits of our experience 
and scale, whilst supporting the sales force in utilising 
their local market knowledge and relationships to secure 
and service customers in each and every market. 
Chief Executive Officer’s review of strategy 
continued
015914_Smith&Nephew_AR12_p10-15 (Working Copy).indd   10 26/02/2013   09:27 overview strategy and performance
marke tplace and 
business segment rev iew
sustai nability 
review
f ina ncial review  
and princ ipal risk s
c orpor ate  
g over nance
accoun ts and  
other information
11 Section 2 Strategy and performance 11
2
Emerging  
markets
New markets, new products
We have recruited experienced leadership to drive 
us into the Emerging markets and invested in new 
headquarters and infrastructure. 
Throughout 2012 we made progress registering and 
selling more of our existing products in our Emerging 
markets – with many new introductions across our 
franchises. 
We are also developing specific products for the 
middle tier in these countries, investing in determining 
both the right product categories, and the right 
business model, to serve these customers effectively.
015914_Smith&Nephew_AR12_p10-15 (Working Copy).indd   11 26/02/2013   09:27 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 12
Chief Executive Officer’s review of strategy continued
015914_Smith&Nephew_AR12_p10-15 (Working Copy).indd   12 26/02/2013   09:27 overview strategy and performance
13 Section 2 Strategy and performance
Accou NTS AND  
o Th Er i NFor MATio N
c orp or ATE  
Go v Er NANc E
FiNANci Al r Evi EW  
AND pri NcipAl r iSkS
SuSTAiNAbili Ty 
r Evi EW
MAr k ETpl Ac E AND 
buSiNESS SEGMENT r Evi EW
3
innovate  
for value
c entre of innovation
in April, we opened a new innovation c entre in 
Memphis, which we are using to deliver best-in-class 
surgeon training programmes. 
This is a world-class, multi-disciplinary facility (joint 
reconstruction, sports medicine and trauma) that 
allows surgeons from different specialties and 
locations to share learning and innovation. its 140-seat 
auditorium, five conference rooms, two classrooms 
and 17 labs have already hosted multiple groups of 
surgeons from around the world keen to experience 
the latest products and surgical techniques. 
Designed for r eal l ife
in June, we launched All Evy N l ife, a unique new 
foam dressing that extends our All Evy N family of 
foam products. This product innovation addresses the 
findings of new Smith & Nephew research into the real 
life concerns of patients living with wounds. 
ALLEVYN Life offers multiple benefits for the patient and 
clinician. These innovative features include: a change 
indicator to avoid unnecessary dressing changes; a 
hyper-absorbent core to prevent leakage of exudate; 
and masking to prevent patient embarrassment caused 
by visible exudate through the dressing. This is all 
combined with unique shapes to ensure better 
dressing retention and our ‘Gentle Border’ silicone 
adhesive to minimise pain at dressing change.
015914_Smith&Nephew_AR12_p10-15 (Working Copy).indd   13 26/02/2013   09:27 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 14
Chief Executive Officer’s review of strategy continued
4
Efficient manufacturing
We have been successful in reducing our cost of goods 
to combat the effects of continued price pressure. in 
manufacturing, we have refined our footprint, especially 
in c hina. During 2012, the Group closed the old l inhe 
orthopaedic plant, moving it to our new facility in beijing 
ahead of schedule. We completed the extension to our 
Wound factory in Suzhou – on time and on budget – 
and have started equipping the plant.
The European process o ptimisation programme 
will rationalise and upgrade our commercial and 
IT platforms allowing us to drive efficiencies while 
better serving our customers.
Simplify and improve 
our operating model
015914_Smith&Nephew_AR12_p10-15 (Working Copy).indd   14 26/02/2013   09:27 overview strategy and performance
marke tplace and 
business segment rev iew
sustai nability 
review
f ina ncial review  
and princ ipal risk s
c orpor ate  
g over nance
accoun ts and  
other information
15 Section 2 Strategy and performance
5
Growth through 
acquisitions
Augment organic growth  
through acquisitions 
In December 2012 Smith & Nephew completed 
the acquisition of Healthpoint Biotherapeutics, 
a leader in bioactive debridement, dermal repair and 
regeneration wound care treatments, for $782m 
in cash. 
This acquisition had compelling strategic and financial 
rationale for Smith & Nephew. 
it gives us a strong position in bioactives, the fastest 
growing area of advanced wound management. it 
brought a complementary range of bioactive 
debridement, dermal repair and regeneration products 
led by c ollagenase SANTyl Ointment (‘SANTYL’), an 
enzymatic debrider for dermal ulcers and burns. it 
added an established R&D capability in next-generation 
bioactive therapies for the treatment of chronic wounds 
and will double our uS AWM sales and strengthen our 
commercial scale and capabilities. 
The combination creates a wound business which is 
unique – having leadership positions across exudate 
and infection management, negative pressure and 
bioactive wound care.
015914_Smith&Nephew_AR12_p10-15 (Working Copy).indd   15 26/02/2013   09:27
