 9 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Chairman’s statement
As I indicated in last year’s report, the Board appointed Philip Bowman
as Chief Executive of the Group in December 2007. Philip brings a new
energy to the Group and already some significant changes to the
operation of the Group have been announced following his initial review
at all levels. All businesses benefit from fresh eyes and the Board has
been delighted by the way in which Philip has further energised the
management team.
Each of the Group’s businesses brings technology based products and
solutions to a range of highly sophisticated customers. The Board has
continued to ensure that these customers are to be found in areas of
significant and profitable growth opportunity including security, oil & gas,
medical devices and wir eless communications. These opportunities have
to be turned into value for our shareholders and to this end the Chief
Executive has instigated major changes that are aimed at substantially
increasing value creation across the Group’s portfolio of businesses. 
The programme of changes set out in the Chief Executive’s statement
and the other narrative in this report explain these opportunities and
how they will be exploited. The Board has encouraged the new approach
to ensure that operationally the Group develops its potential to the full.
At the forefront of this structure is clear delegated accountability for
achievement in each of our businesses with executive reward clearly
linked to value creating performance. 
The smaller corporate centre of the Group guides the strategy and
leverages benefits of scale across the Group. It retains the task, on behalf
of the Board, of ensuring that the divisions comply with all of the systems
and processes that protect shareholders’ interests. Each division will
now hold monthly Divisional Board Meetings: included on these boards
will be an Investor Director from one of the Chief Executive’s direct
reports who will have a mandate that includes monitoring compliance
with Group policies.
The business leadership teams deliver the operational performance
which translates into improved shareholder returns. This clarity is
important in developing a more performance-driven culture in Smiths.
There is a corresponding increase in the demands made of all
management to perform.
On 28 July, an Extraordinary General Meeting of shareholders adopted
proposals that substantially change how the senior teams both at the
centre and in each of the divisions are rewarded. These changes place
a premium on the creation of shareholder value. They strengthen the link
between pay and performance, they link remuneration to long-term
value creation at divisional level and they provide exceptional reward only
if there is exceptional performance.
In the past year there have been notable operational projects across the
business as a whole addressing new customers and generating new
products. Examples from across the businesses of these are to be found
in this report; but it would be wrong at this time, when everyone is
focused on safety, not to mention the major breakthrough achieved by
our Detection business with its new aTix system security machines
which are now being rolled out from Heathrow Airport in the UK to
airports all around the world. It is a relief not to have to take out laptops
where these machines are installed!
I have said in past reports that the Board is mindful of its role as guardian
of shareholders’ money. As well as ensuring operating excellence the
Board remains restless in its hunt for shareholder value and will
continue to monitor each of our businesses to ensure that the Group is
their most appropriate owner .
The past year has seen a number of changes to the composition of the
Board. On the executive side, the arrival of Philip Bowman in December
2007 was preceded by the retirement of Keith Butler-Wheelhouse, as I
discussed last year . In addition, David Lillycrop resigned from the Board
in June 2008, standing down from his role as General Counsel and
Company Secretary. David had been a member of the Board since the
merger with TI Group and I would like to thank him for his major
contribution to Smiths Group and for the help he has given me.
On the non-executive side, in April 2008 Peter Loescher resigned as a
non-executive director at his own request so that he could concentrate
on his responsibilities as Chief Executive of Siemens AG. The Board
benefitted from his wisdom and wish him well in his executive role.
At the half year we explained that in light of the prevailing market
conditions and the scope for investment in organic growth and
acquisitions, the Board intends to grow dividends consistent with
increasing cover to around 2.5 times in the medium term. As a result the
interim dividend was unchanged year-on-year . 
The Board has considered the final dividend in the light of this policy and
has decided to propose a dividend of 23.5p, making a total of 34.0p for
the year, unchanged from last year .
The final dividend will be paid on 21 November to shareholders
registered at the close of business on 24 October . The ex-dividend date
is 22 October .
This report is being published at a time of turmoil in financial markets
and anxieties for world growth. This is putting pressure on sales and
margins for many businesses. It is not by chance that Smiths Group is
positioned in markets that the Board believes are better equipped to
resist the pressures of a global downturn. Neither the Board nor
management are complacent and the businesses have embarked on
an extensive programme of self-help that aims over the course of the
next 24 months not only to withstand any effects from the downturn but
also to deliver increased value to shareholders. The Group remains
therefore both strong and dynamic.
Donald Brydon
Chairman
