 10 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Chief Executive’s statement
We have delivered strong sales and profit
growth driven by good performances from
John Crane, Smiths Detection and Smiths
Interconnect. A performance improvement
programme is underway to address the
operational issues that have held back
Smiths Medical over the past two years.
The portfolio has been strengthened this
year through one divestment and seven
acquisitions which bring new technologies
and extend Smiths geographic footprint –
particularly in developing markets.
Our focus is on top-line growth and margin
enhancement while there are significant
opportunities to improve performance and
generate value across the Group. We have 
begun a substantial restructuring
programme that will deliver operating
efficiencies and improve customer service.
The scale of the opportunities is
demonstrated by the new divisional targets
set out here for the first time.
The sustained upheaval in the world
economy is creating uncertainty in many
markets and may disrupt government
spending patterns – particularly in the 
US and India where there are forthcoming
elections. However, Smiths Group is well
placed among global businesses to meet 
these challenges.
Looking at this year’ s results, sales rose by 7% and the headline pre-tax
profit increased by 10%; after adjusting for currency translation and
acquisitions and disposals the underlying improvement was 6% and 8%
respectively. The headline numbers exclude various exceptional items
which are detailed in the Business Review; one of these is a charge of
£40m in respect of John Crane, Inc. litigation, a full explanation of which
is on page 29.
Since joining Smiths some nine months ago, I have undertaken a
thorough review of operations. It is a Group with a strong set of
technology-based businesses applying some of the world’s most
advanced industrial sciences – from airport X-ray scanning machines to
mechanical seals for the oil industry . In addition, the businesses operate
in markets sustained by long-term secular growth: Smiths Medical’s
market is growing as populations age and increase in prosperity, John
Crane by energy consumption, and Interconnect by the need for
increased bandwidth and upgraded wireless infrastructure. Smiths
Detection is driven by demand for increased security and protection.
Although Flex-Tek is exposed to more cyclical markets such as US
housing, it has a portfolio of high-performance products that supply the
aerospace market.
My review of operations identified significant opportunities to improve
performance progressively over a two-year period and maximise value
for shareholders. T o deliver these benefits, the Board has already taken
some key decisions:
• manage the Group as five divisions from 1 August 2008 and restructure
each to improve customer service and deliver efficiencies;
• restructure and reduce the corporate centre to cut cost and focus it on
delivering returns from the business;
• improve business systems and data-flow which, over time, will support
data-driven decision-making and enable the Group to be more
responsive to changing market conditions and opportunities;
• build the business through acquisitions which will add complementary
technologies, expand the geographic footprint or leverage existing
scale;
• increase investment in research and development and focus it more
intensely on higher growth areas that will deliver greater returns; and
• introduce an incentive scheme for senior management that reinforces
our new culture of performance improvement and delivery against
recently established divisional targets.
In June, we announced that the Specialty Engineering division would be
disbanded so that its three constituent businesses – John Crane,
Interconnect and Flex-T ek – report directly to me. This reduces cost and
gives greater accountability to each of the businesses. In addition, all
Smiths divisions will now be managed from divisional headquarters that
are closer to their operations, key markets and customers.
We also aim to realise value by restructuring the divisions themselves.
For example, John Crane which had historically been managed as two
separate operations from the UK and US, is now combined under the
leadership of Paul Cox and headquartered at Morton Grove, near
Chicago. In Medical, the management structure in the US will be
simplified and we will introduce a global approach to R&D. There are
also further opportunities to re-organise Flex-Tek’s portfolio of
businesses to drive efficiencies and improve operational effectiveness.
At the same time, we have defined more clearly the roles of the divisions
and their interface with the corporate centre. These changes will reduce
substantially the size of the corporate office and improve the way we
work by introducing better defined governance and decision-making.
The small head office will concentrate on three areas: setting the
Group’ s strategic direction and capital allocation; leveraging the Group’ s
scale where appropriate; and ensuring compliance as a UK-listed
company . In future, we will report the corporate centre costs separately
which will give greater clarity to the underlying margins of the divisions
and provide a clear incentive to minimise corporate costs. 11 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Philip Bowman
Chief Executive
T aken together, these restructuring programmes are expected to deliver
annual cost savings of £47m once they are complete in three years 
time. The cost of delivering these programmes will be £48m which will 
be treated as an exceptional item. Further details are given in the
divisional reviews.
We are also investing more to improve data-flow and speed up decision-
making through the implementation of better information systems. For
example, ERP systems are currently being deployed in Detection, John
Crane and Medical. At a Group level, a new information platform is being
introduced which will help capture operational data from the divisions.
This creates opportunities to leverage the scale of the Group for the first
time by group-wide procurement of travel, IT, and other services. We
have already launched a programme to consolidate IT service delivery
across the Group, improving service quality and cutting costs. We have
also signed a deal with AT&T to supply a range of communication
services such as mobile telephones, remote access, etc. which will
deliver annual savings of at least $5m.
Our management team has also been strengthened. Reflecting the
importance of the IT investment, Brian Jones has joined us as Chief
Information Officer . He brings many years’ experience in implementing
ERP systems and improving information flow within large organisations.
Michael Herlihy has been appointed General Counsel and is also a
member of the Executive Committee and Peter Durman has joined to
lead an invigorated investor relations programme. The mix of talent at
Smiths will continue to be refreshed and reinforced with external
appointments bringing different competencies and innovative ideas to
the Group.
There are valuable opportunities to build Smiths through bolt-on
acquisitions – particularly in John Crane, Interconnect and Detection.
Such acquisitions bring complementary technologies, support
geographic expansion or leverage existing infrastructure. John Crane
acquired Indufil, a specialist in filtration systems, and Sartorius Bearing
T echnology, a leading provider of high performance rotating equipment
for the oil and gas industry; both have added valuable new technologies
that can be leveraged through John Crane’ s global network of more than
220 sales and service centres. John Crane also acquired Fiberod which
further extends our upstream energy services capability and
complements the CDI acquisition made last year . In addition, John Crane
expanded its presence in Japan, the world’s second largest market for
OEM pump manufacturers, by increasing its ownership share of John
Crane Japan from 49% to 70%. In Interconnect, the acquisitions of
Shanghai-based Allrizon T ongguang and Brisbane-based T riasx Pty Ltd
have strengthened its position in the growing Asian market. Flex-T ek’s
acquisition of Fast Heat has extended its range of specialty heating
solutions.
We are also driving higher levels of revenue growth organically through
an increase in research and development (R&D) investment focused
more tightly on growth areas that can deliver the most attractive returns.
R&D investment for the Group increased by 8%, or £7m, to £86m. In
Detection, our spend has been focused on X-ray detection systems for
both airports and cargo screening, while we have extended our portfolio
of chemical and trace detectors. We are at the cutting edge of a number
of technologies – X-ray screening, millimetre wave imaging and
biological detection. In Medical, we have launched a number of new
products during the year as we begin to benefit from the introduction of
a streamlined product development process. It has resulted in a 50%
increase in the number of product launches this year .
To reinforce our new culture of performance improvement, we have
established tar gets for sales gr owth and mar gins for each of the divisions.
These are the ranges we anticipate the divisions will operate within over
the next three years, based on organic growth at constant currency and
assume a financial and macro-economic environment consistent with
that of recent years. Alongside this, we have introduced a new incentive
plan for senior management and divisional leadership. It more closely
links remuneration with performance and, ultimately, value creation and
places much greater accountability on the divisional leadership for the
performance of their businesses. The new incentive plan means that
each division will have its own targets to meet, reward will be bound
together by one common currency, the Smiths share price. In that way
we will reflect the value-creating performance of each division.
Sales
2008* 2008 T arget
£m growth
#
growth range
#
Detection 509 12% 10-12%
John Crane 626 8% 6-8%
Medical 703 0% 3-5%
Interconnect 261 13% 6-10%
Flex-T ek 206 (4%) 0-7%
Total 2,305
Headline operating profit
2008* 2008 T arget
£m margin margin range
Detection 93 18% 17-20%
John Crane 104 17% 17-22%
Medical 140 20% 20-24%
Interconnect 54 21% 21-23%
Flex-T ek 24 12% 11-16%
Corporate centre (35)
Total 380
*The above analysis reflects the revised operating structure for 2008/09, see page 72, and
excludes three months of trading for Marine Systems which was sold in November 2007.
#
Organic growth at constant currency 
Delivering these returns will be a team effort and I would like to thank
our 22,000 employees around the world for their hard work and support
during a time of very real change both within Smiths Group and the wider
economy .
In summary, I believe that most divisions have the opportunity to improve
margins significantly. The greater responsibility, accountability and
incentivisation of the divisional management teams, combined with the
availability of better data to underpin management decisions, should
progressively unlock value for the benefit of shareholders.
