  2010 was a year
in which AstraZeneca 
maintained its strong 
ﬁ nancial performance
Louis Schweitzer
Chairman
Dividend information
$2.55
Dividend per Ordinary Share 2010
Dividend for 2010 $ Pence SEK Payment date
First interim dividend 0.70 44.9 5.12 13 September 2010
Second interim dividend 1.85 116.7 11.99 14 March 2011
Total 2.55 161.6 17.11
Distributions to shareholders $m 2010 2009 2008
Dividends 3,361 2,977 2,739
Share repurchases 2,604
1
–610
1
 Share repurchases in 2010, net of proceeds from the issue of share capital equal to $494 million, were $2,110 million.
6 Chairman’s Statement Chairman’s Statement
In the face of sustained pressures on the 
business, 2010 was a year in which AstraZeneca 
maintained its strong ﬁnancial performance.  
We also made good progress in implementing  
our strategy to be a focused, integrated, 
innovation-driven, global, prescription-based 
biopharmaceutical business.
Group sales in 2010 were unchanged at $33,269 million. Reported 
operating proﬁt was $11,494 million, down 1%. Reported earnings 
per share for the full year were up 7% at $5.60 (2009: $5.19). Within 
the unchanged revenue total there was strong sales growth for 
medicines such as Crestor, Symbicort and Seroquel XR, and 
revenue outside the US increased by 7%, including a 16% increase 
in Emerging Markets. On the other hand US revenue was down  
by 7%. As expected, revenue in the US was affected by generic 
competition for Arimidex, Pulmicort Respules and Toprol-XL, as 
well as the absence of the H1N1 inﬂuenza (swine ﬂu) vaccine 
revenue that beneﬁted 2009 revenues.
Pharmaceutical sector
Our performance in 2010 took place against a background of 
continued world pharmaceutical market growth. This growth is 
being driven by increasing and ageing populations, as well as 
expanding numbers of patients in emerging markets who can 
beneﬁt from our medicines, together with the increasing prevalence 
of chronic diseases and advances in science and technology. On 
the other hand, the pharmaceutical sector, including AstraZeneca, 
faces a number of challenges in the form of competition, particularly 
from generic versions of medicines, and declining R&D productivity. 
In addition, most of our sales take place in highly regulated markets 
where cost containment by governments and other payers for 
healthcare is a priority, especially in the wake of the economic 
downturn. We expect this pressure to continue, most notably in the 
US and European markets and the Board will keep its plans under 
continuous review to ensure we are able to respond to changes. 
AstraZeneca fully recognises the importance of its reputation.  
We are committed to doing business in an ethical and proper 
manner and take compliance with all laws seriously. Oversight of  
the pharmaceutical sector by regulators and competition authorities 
has intensiﬁed in recent years. The Board, assisted by the Audit 
Committee, plays an active role in monitoring performance.
Our strategy
Against this outlook, the Board believes its focused strategy is  
the most value-creating path for AstraZeneca. Our business model 
is based on using the best science and technology to invent and 
acquire, develop, produce and distribute innovative medicines that 
make a meaningful difference to patient health around the world. 
Underpinning this model is the creation, protection and subsequent 
sharing of intellectual property. It is on this basis that we continue  
to invest in new medicines and work to protect and optimise our 
investments by rigorously defending our patent rights. We were 
therefore pleased with the court decision upholding the validity and 
enforceability of the Crestor US substance patent.
The focus of our efforts to implement our strategy in 2010 was  
on making the transformational changes to the business needed  
to generate sustainable long-term value. At the heart of these 
changes was the creation of a single R&D organisation which we 
are reshaping and in which we are investing to improve productivity 
and secure targeted levels of return. Complementing this is a single 
Commercial organisation which not only ensures that our medicines 
reach the doctors and patients who need them, but also works 
closely with R&D to ensure that our pipeline delivers the medicines 
most likely to deliver technical and commercial success. That 
includes working with payers to ensure that they value and are 
willing to purchase our medicines. 
Also central to our strategy is a ﬁrm belief in external collaboration. 
We have a desire to access the best science, whatever its origins, 
and to act as a valued and trusted partner.
We have undertaken signiﬁcant restructuring initiatives in furtherance 
of our strategy. The ﬁrst phase of the restructuring programme is 
now complete, resulting in the realisation of annual beneﬁts of  
$2.4 billion achieved to date at a cumulative cost of around $2.5 billion.
Outlook and cash returns to shareholders
We continue to plan on the basis that revenue will be in the range of 
$28-$34 billion a year over the 2010-14 period, as revenue growth 
from key franchises that retain exclusivity and continued growth in 
Emerging Markets are pressured by the loss of market exclusivity  
on a number of products. 
In recognition of the Group’s strong balance sheet and sustainable 
signiﬁcant cash ﬂow, and the Board’s conﬁdence in the strategic 
direction and long-term prospects for the business, we announced, 
in conjunction with the full year 2009 results, the adoption of a 
progressive dividend policy, intending to maintain or grow the 
dividend each year. After providing for business investment, funding 
the progressive dividend policy and meeting our debt service 
obligations, the Board will also keep under review the opportunity  
to return cash in excess of these requirements to shareholders 
through periodic share repurchases.
The Board has recommended a second interim dividend of  
$1.85, an 8% increase over the second interim dividend awarded  
in 2009. This brings the dividend for the full year to $2.55  
(161.6 pence, SEK 17 .11), an increase of 11% from 2009. In 2010,  
cash distributions to shareholders through dividends totalled  
$3,361 million and net share repurchases totalled $2,110 million.
Board changes
There were a number of Board changes during the year. John 
Buchanan and Bo Angelin both left the Board immediately after the 
2010 AGM. John had been a Director for eight years and had also 
chaired the Audit Committee. His contribution to the work of the 
Board and the Audit Committee over those years was signiﬁcant 
and we beneﬁted greatly from his skills, experience and thoughtful 
approach. Bo was appointed as a Director in 2007 and stepped 
down in order to concentrate on his scientiﬁc work. He provided 
valuable insight to the Board and the Science Committee during  
his time as a Director. On behalf of their fellow Directors, I would  
like to thank both for their excellent service to AstraZeneca.
Bruce Burlington joined the Board in August. He brings with him  
a wealth of pharmaceutical industry experience following a career  
at the FDA and subsequently at Wyeth, now part of Pﬁzer Inc. In 
January 2011, Shriti Vadera joined the Board. Her experience of 
emerging markets, and knowledge of global ﬁnance and public 
policy, will be invaluable. I would like to welcome both Bruce and  
Shriti to the Board.
Appreciation
2010 was a successful and challenging year for AstraZeneca.  
We maintained our strong ﬁnancial performance and took and 
implemented difﬁcult decisions to ensure the future success  
of the Group. None of this would have been possible without  
the leadership of David Brennan and the other members of his 
executive team. My thanks, and those of the whole Board, go  
to them and all our employees who did so much in 2010 for the 
long-term success of AstraZeneca.
Louis Schweitzer
Chairman
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Chairman’s Statement 7
Overview Overview Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review
