 The world pharmaceutical market grew by 
5.2% in 2010 and more people than ever 
around the world had access to modern 
medicines, including more patients in emerging 
markets. Indeed, as the World pharmaceutical 
markets ﬁgure below shows, average revenue 
growth in Emerging Markets was, at nearly 
14%, more than three times the rate in 
Established Markets.  
While demand for medicines and world pharmaceutical markets, 
especially Emerging Markets, continued to grow in 2010, research-
based pharmaceutical companies faced a challenging marketplace. 
Pricing pressures intensiﬁed in most Established Markets with 
increased competition from generic medicines and greater 
constraints being placed on our business by payers. In addition, 
industry-wide R&D productivity continued to decline.
In 2010, the top ﬁve pharmaceutical markets in the world remained 
the US, Japan, Germany, France and China, with the US representing 
40.9% of global prescription pharmaceutical sales (2009: 41.2%). 
Growth drivers
Expanding patient populations
The world population has doubled in the last 50 years from three 
billion to over six billion and is expected to reach nine billion by 
2050. In addition, the number of people who can access modern 
standards of healthcare continues to increase, particularly among 
the elderly, who represent a rising proportion of populations in 
developed nations.
Furthermore, faster-developing economies, such as China, India 
and Brazil, offer new opportunities for the industry to help an 
expanding number of patients who can beneﬁt from medicines. 
Emerging Markets now represent approximately 85% of the world 
population. In addition, their pharmaceutical revenues grew 
signiﬁcantly faster than those in Established Markets in 2010 and,  
as the Estimated pharmaceutical market growth 2009-2014 ﬁgure 
opposite shows, it is estimated that this trend will continue.
Data based on world market sales using AstraZeneca’s market deﬁnitions as set out in the 
Market deﬁnitions table on page 217. Source: IMS Health.
World Sales ($bn)
2010 754
2009 717
2008 677
Western Europe Sales ($bn)
2010 183
2009 179
2008 173
Established ROW Sales ($bn)
2010 120
2009 117
2008 111
Emerging Markets Sales ($bn)
2010 143
2009 125
2008 108
Growth in 2010
5.2%
Growth in 2010
4.1%
Growth in 2010
2.7%
Growth in 2010
2.8%
Growth in 2010
13.8%
Market value in 2010
100%
Market value in 2010
40.9%
Market value in 2010
24.3%
Market value in 2010
15.9%
Market value in 2010
18.9%
US Sales ($bn)
2010 308
2009 296
2008 285
World pharmaceutical markets
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Our Strategy and Performance
10 Our Strategy and Performance Our marketplace
Our marketplace Unmet medical need
In most established markets, ageing populations and certain 
lifestyle choices such as smoking, a poor diet and lack of exercise 
drive an increased incidence of chronic diseases such as cancer, 
cardiovascular/metabolic and respiratory diseases which require 
long-term management. The prevalence of chronic disease is 
increasing in middle-income countries and is now beginning to  
have an impact in the least developed countries. For example,  
WHO research shows that about 90% of the premature deaths  
from non-communicable diseases are in developing countries, 
amounting to more than eight million deaths annually. WHO 
estimates that, if nothing is done, deaths from these diseases  
will increase by a further 17% before 2015, with Africa seeing the 
greatest increase of 27%, compared with 6% in Europe.
Advances in science and technology
Innovation leading to new drugs is critical to meeting unmet  
medical need. Existing drugs will continue to be important in 
meeting the growing demand for healthcare, particularly as the 
increasing use of generic medication improves access and frees  
up total healthcare funds. At the same time, advances in disease 
understanding and the application of new technologies will be 
required to ensure the delivery of new medicines. Such approaches 
include personalised healthcare and predictive science as well as 
other new therapeutic modalities. 
The use of large molecules, or biologics, is becoming an 
increasingly important source of innovation. Forecasts for 2016 
predict that of the world’s top 100 pharmaceutical products, 48%  
of sales will come from biologics. This compares with only 31% in 
2009 and 15% in 2000. With advances in the technologies for the 
design and testing of novel compounds, new opportunities also 
exist for the use of innovative small molecules as new medicines. 
Most pharmaceutical companies now pursue both small molecules 
and biologics R&D.
The challenges
Pricing pressure
Most of our sales continue to be generated in highly regulated 
markets where governments exert various levels of control on 
pricing and reimbursement. Cost containment in healthcare, 
including containment of pharmaceutical spending, continues to  
be a focus. The global economic downturn has enhanced this  
focus and the pricing and reimbursement environments in many 
markets continue to be highly dynamic.
In March 2010, President Barack Obama signed into law the 
Affordable Care Act. It is intended to expand healthcare coverage 
and improve healthcare delivery while reducing the federal budget 
deﬁcit and sets in motion signiﬁcant changes to the US healthcare 
system, the world’s largest. Healthcare reform implementation 
impacts the pharmaceutical industry signiﬁcantly, with some 
provisions directly targeting the sector. Expansion of healthcare 
coverage to an estimated 32 million uninsured people and the 
enhanced focus on ensuring quality healthcare will potentially 
increase patient access to appropriate treatments, including 
prescription medicines. Efforts to expand access to government 
healthcare programmes require additional sources of funding.  
The pharmaceutical industry, including AstraZeneca, has shown  
its commitment to these efforts through its agreement, among  
other things, to help close the coverage gap in the Medicare Part D 
prescription drug programme and by paying an annual industry fee.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Our Strategy and Performance Our marketplace 11
Estimated pharmaceutical market growth 2009-2014
 Key
Estimated sales – 2014* 
Estimated growth – 2009-2014  
(compound annual growth rate)
 North America Sales $398.1bn Growth 4.4%
 Europe (EU countries) Sales $261.7bn Growth 3.0%
 South East & East Asia Sales $132.0bn Growth 17.7%
 Japan Sales $115.5bn Growth 4.0%
 Latin America Sales $94.4bn Growth 13.4%
Source: IMS Health. 
* Ex-manufacturer prices at CER.
 CIS Sales $26.6bn Growth 10.5%
 Europe (Non EU countries) Sales $26.3bn Growth 4.8%
 South Asia Sales $26.1bn Growth 14.2%
 Africa Sales $20.9bn Growth 8.6%
 Oceania Sales $15.0bn Growth 4.6%
 Middle East Sales $13.3bn Growth 8.6%
Overview Overview Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review While many of the coverage expansion provisions do not take effect 
until 2014, the legislation will have an immediate and direct impact 
on healthcare activities across stakeholders in the US healthcare 
system. More generally, it will have broad implications for how 
healthcare is delivered, covered and reimbursed. The pharmaceutical 
industry is working with policymakers and regulators during the 
implementation phases of healthcare reform with a view to ensuring 
that they strike a balance between containing costs, while also 
promoting an environment that fosters medical innovation.
In Germany, Europe’s largest pharmaceutical market, healthcare 
reforms brought into force this year are set to have a signiﬁcant 
long-term impact on the demands being placed on pharmaceutical 
manufacturers to produce information and evidence from clinical 
trials. In addition, these reforms include a number of short-term 
measures to lower Germany’s healthcare spending, including 
provisions that allow for an increase in mandatory rebates and  
a freeze on drug prices. Similar short-term measures have been 
implemented as a direct response to economic challenges in 
several other European markets in 2010, including Spain, Portugal 
and Greece. Each of these markets has either imposed price  
cuts, or increased mandatory rebates on pharmaceutical  
products. These actions present a considerable challenge for  
the research-based pharmaceutical industry.
Nevertheless, pricing remains one of the principal levers that 
countries can use to stimulate pharmaceutical innovation and 
investment. Recognition of this has led to a number of positive 
developments, such as exemptions in Japan, the world’s second 
largest pharmaceutical market for certain innovative medicines  
from the country’s biennial price cuts.
More information regarding the impact of price controls and 
reductions, as well as the impact of healthcare reform in the US, can 
be found in the Principal risks and uncertainties section from page 
96. The principal aspects of price regulation in our major markets 
are described further in the Geographical Review from page 70.
R&D productivity 
Over the last 30 years, investment in R&D in the US has increased 
from $2 billion to $45 billion a year, whereas approvals by the FDA 
have generally remained at 25-30 a year. Against this background, 
the research-based pharmaceutical industry is pursuing increased 
productivity to ensure a strong pipeline of commercially viable 
medicines for launch. The challenge now is greater than ever with 
the pursuit of newer, more challenging biological targets. In an 
attempt to increase the quality of candidates progressed through 
development, novel paradigms are being employed for less 
well-validated targets, while clinical ‘proof of concept’ is now  
the deﬁning measure of success.
Organisationally, companies are addressing this challenge in a 
variety of ways. Some companies are employing Lean business 
improvement tools and/or shared risk operating models to bring 
potential drug candidates to the proof of concept milestone.  
Others have sought to increase output with limited incremental  
cost or restructured R&D functions to promote innovation and 
entrepreneurship. Some companies have acquired others with 
synergistic development pipelines.
Regulatory requirements
Pharmaceuticals is one of the most regulated industries. This 
reﬂects the public interest in safeguarding patients. While efforts  
to harmonise these regulations globally are increasing, their  
number and impact continue to grow, thereby raising the cost  
of doing business. Given the nature and geographic scope of our 
business, we maintain important interactions with many health 
authority regulatory bodies in numerous countries. In our largest 
markets, these bodies include the FDA in the US, and the European 
Commission and the EMA in the EU. Regulators are also continuing 
to apply a more systematic approach to safety assessment and  
to the management of known and emerging risks, both before  
and after a medicine is approved. At the same time, there is growing 
public demand for access to and transparency of data, especially 
clinical data, to understand the overall risk and beneﬁt and the 
rationale for a health authority’s decisions. While transparency  
and co-operation between health authorities today is becoming 
routine, this co-operation does not always lead to identical 
regulatory outcomes. 
Clinical trials are being conducted across a number of countries  
and regions. This requires a comprehensive understanding of  
the differing regional determinants of safety, efﬁcacy and clinical 
practice, as well as knowledge of local ethics, human subject 
protection and good clinical practice requirements. In order to 
support the registration of our products in a given regulatory 
jurisdiction, programmes providing foreign clinical trial data must 
meet the requirements of local health authorities to ensure 
relevance to their speciﬁc population. 
Health authorities are also increasingly interested in the efﬁcacy  
of pharmaceuticals after they have been approved, which can also 
result in additional regulations. This trend reﬂects the increasing 
pressures from both health technology assessors and payers to 
assess not only the safety of our products but also their relative 
effectiveness in the healthcare system. 
Competition
Our main competitors are other research-based pharmaceutical 
companies that develop and sell innovative, patent-protected 
prescription medicines and vaccines, as well as smaller 
biotechnology and vaccine companies.
Generic versions of drugs are very competitive because 
manufacturers of generic drugs price them at a signiﬁcantly lower 
level than the innovator equivalents. This is partly because generic 
manufacturers do not invest the same amounts in R&D or market 
development as research-based pharmaceutical companies and 
therefore do not need to recoup that investment. Such competition 
has traditionally occurred when patents expire, but can also  
occur where the validity of patents is being disputed or has been 
successfully challenged before expiry. Such early challenges by 
generics to patents on innovative products have increased and 
generic companies are increasingly willing to launch generic 
products ‘at risk’, in other words, prior to resolution of the relevant 
patent litigation. This can result in signiﬁcant market presence for 
the generic equivalent of an innovative product during the period  
in which such patent litigation remains unresolved, even though  
the courts may subsequently rule that such product is properly 
protected by a valid patent. The unpredictable nature of such patent 
litigation has led innovators to seek to settle such challenges on 
terms acceptable to both innovator and generic manufacturer. 
However, some competition authorities have sought to challenge 
the scope or even availability of settlement agreements of this type.
To date, biologics have sustained longer life-cycles than traditional 
pharmaceuticals and have faced less generic competition. This is 
because the manufacturing process for biologics is generally more 
complex than it is for small molecule medicines, and it is signiﬁcantly 
harder to produce an identical copy of a biologic than it is a small 
molecule medicine. However, some biologics are, or will become, 
subject to competition from ‘biosimilars’ as regulatory authorities in 
Europe and the US continue implementing abbreviated approvals 
processes for biosimilars.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 12 Our Strategy and Performance Our marketplace
Our Strategy and Performance AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Acute coronary syndromes – or ACS –  
is a term used to describe sudden chest 
pain and other symptoms caused by an 
insufﬁcient blood supply to the heart. They 
are the most common manifestation of 
coronary heart disease (CHD) with over  
2.5 million occurrences in the developed 
world each year. Despite the availability of 
current treatment options, data suggests 
that up to 15% of patients die within one 
year of their cardiovascular event. 
Brilinta/Brilique (ticagrelor tablets) is an oral antiplatelet 
treatment we have developed for ACS. The clinical 
development for Brilinta/Brilique included the PLATO study, 
one of the largest clinical trials we have ever undertaken, 
involving 18,624 patients in 43 countries. PLATO was 
designed to reﬂect current clinical management of ACS 
patients and to establish whether Brilinta/Brilique could 
improve cardiovascular outcomes beyond those afforded by 
clopidogrel (Plavix™/Iscover™). The overall PLATO results 
demonstrated the superiority of ticagrelor in reducing heart 
attacks and cardiovascular death in patients with ACS. The 
data has provided the basis for regulatory ﬁlings worldwide.
For more than half a century, AstraZeneca has been at the 
forefront of R&D in cardiovascular diseases. Brilinta/Brilique 
was discovered at our laboratories in the UK and represents 
another example of our commitment to developing and 
delivering innovative medicines that make a meaningful 
difference to patient health.
      Who 
can help 
me survive 
a heart 
attack?
Because health connects us all
For more information go to the Therapy Area Review 
from page 50.
