        It is the manner in 
which we do business 
as much as what we do 
that will determine our 
long-term success
David R Brennan
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
Operational highlights
1 
Single R&D organisation in place
Achieved major market approvals for Vimovo 
and Brilique/Brilinta; made submissions for 
dapagliﬂ ozin and Zinforo, but disappointments 
on other pipeline products
$5bn
Annual Crestor and Seroquel sales exceeded 
$5 billion each
8%
Ranked in the top 8% in the sector in the 
Dow Jones Sustainability World and 
European Indexes
$5.1bn 
Revenue in Emerging Markets grew to over 
$5.1 billion, a 16% increase
8 Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s Review AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
2010 emphasised that it is the manner in which 
we do business as much as what we do that 
will determine our long-term success. It told us 
that, if we are to deliver our strategy and make  
a meaningful difference to the health of patients 
through great medicines, then we need to act 
with integrity and remain true to our values. We 
need to behave as an integrated organisation 
and work in collaboration with patients, doctors, 
payers and our many other stakeholders.
Transforming R&D
That journey starts with an R&D organisation that delivers world-
class performance and where increased externalisation means  
we can access diverse sources of innovation. We made signiﬁcant 
progress in 2010 with the creation of a single R&D organisation  
and of a leadership team comprising the best internal and external 
leaders. This includes the appointment of Martin Mackay as 
President, Global R&D. We have also put in place a new global 
organisation structure and governance framework. We are 
consolidating our site footprint and have refocused our resources 
on a smaller number of high-potential activities.
The need for change is undiminished. Our R&D record over the  
past few years is disappointing and our results in 2010 were mixed. 
On the positive side, Vimovo, our medicine for arthritic pain, which 
we developed with Pozen Inc. was approved and launched in the 
EU and the US. Brilique/Brilinta, our treatment for acute coronary 
syndromes, has also been approved in the EU. Kombiglyze™ XR,  
a ﬁxed dose combination of Onglyza™ and metformin, a further 
product in our BMS diabetes collaboration, was approved in  
the US.
In 2010, we made major regulatory submissions for vandetanib  
(for thyroid cancer), Zinforo (an anti-bacterial medicine), dapagliﬂozin 
(for diabetes) and Axanum (a cardiovascular medicine). We completed 
a deal with Rigel for the Phase III development of fostamatinib (for 
rheumatoid arthritis), and TC-5214, our neuroscience collaboration 
with Targacept, also entered Phase III development.
However, both Brilinta and Axanum received Complete Response 
Letters from the FDA during the year. We responded to the  
Brilinta letter in January 201 1 and remain conﬁdent in our submission. 
Complete Response Letters were also received for motavizumab 
(for treating serious respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) disease) and 
Certriad (for the treatment of lipid abnormalities). Following these 
letters, we have withdrawn the biological license application  
relating to motavizumab and recorded an impairment charge of 
$445 million. In addition, we have ended our licence agreement  
with Abbott for the development of Certriad. 
Leveraging our commercial assets
Hand in hand with transforming R&D is the need to leverage our 
commercial assets. Our key medicines, such as Crestor, Symbicort 
and Seroquel XR, achieved double digit growth in 2010. Both 
Crestor and Seroquel XR were helped by US and EU approvals for 
additional indications. Nexium is already approved in 120 countries 
and in 2010 we signed an agreement with Daiichi Sankyo for its 
co-promotion and supply in Japan after it is approved for use.
We are also focusing our efforts on ensuring that we have the right 
capabilities to successfully launch and commercialise the next wave 
of medicines from our pipeline, as well as to deliver our expansion 
plans in Emerging Markets, both through organic growth of 
products from our current portfolio and pipeline and also through 
selective additions of AstraZeneca branded generics. In 2010,  
we identiﬁed a portfolio of more than 100 generic products which 
we are currently licensing across 30 Emerging Markets. To help  
us license these dossiers and source the molecules, we are  
working with a number of companies in India, and have signed an 
agreement with Torrent to supply us with a portfolio of branded  
generic medicines.
We are creating a much stronger focus on those who pay for  
our medicines to help us ensure that our medicines get to the  
right patients, at the right time and at a price they can afford,  
while reﬂecting our investment. As part of this, we have signed  
a collaboration agreement with HealthCore, which maintains the 
largest commercially insured population data environment in the 
US. This will enable us to carry out ‘real world’ studies of health 
outcomes, which is of increasing importance to payers around  
the world. 
In April 2010, we signed an agreement with the US Department of 
Justice to settle an investigation relating to the sales and marketing 
of Seroquel. The requirements of the associated Corporate Integrity 
Agreement include a number of active monitoring and self-reporting 
obligations which we have put in place.
Efﬁciency across the value chain
To be successful we need to be a lean and agile organisation.  
We continue to drive our operations strategy, simplifying and 
streamlining our infrastructure and reducing costs. Making changes 
to reshape the business and make it ﬁt for purpose going forward 
affects a large number of people. In many parts of the business that 
has resulted in further reductions in our workforce. The executive 
team and I remain committed to ensuring that we manage these 
changes in the right way. This means dealing responsibly and 
sympathetically with affected individuals and the communities in 
which they live.
People acting with integrity
A good reputation is critical to our business success. We need to 
earn and maintain the trust of our customers, collaborators and all 
those with whom we do business. That means each of us needs to 
act with integrity and in accordance with our values. It explains why 
we set such great store by compliance with our Code of Conduct. 
During 2010, we reviewed our existing sales and marketing policies 
and standards and created a single new Global Policy on External 
Interactions which we aim to launch in the ﬁrst quarter of 2011.
A good reputation also requires a commitment to acting responsibly 
and to the sustainable development of our business. To that end, 
our responsible business objectives are closely aligned to our 
business strategy and, in 2010, we reviewed and reshaped our 
corporate responsibility priority action plan.
Finally, I am grateful for the dedication and hard work of all  
our employees. The pace of change will not let up in 2011 but  
I remain conﬁdent that together we have the talent, motivation  
and commitment needed to improve patient health through  
great medicines.
David R Brennan
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Overview
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review 9
Overview Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review
