 South Staffordshire Group Plc Report & Accounts 2003
4 – Chief Executive’s Review
Our partners include the majority of the UK water
and power utilities, leading furniture retailers,
appliance manufacturers and household insurers.
HomeServe has combined significant organic profit
growth with two major acquisitions, Regency and
Highway. In addition, we made a smaller acquisition
in March 2003, Servowarm, enhancing the delivery
of our gas boiler warranty and emergency repair
business. In total this year we have invested £70m
in cash with estimated deferred consideration of
£26m based on future profitability.
Home Service is the market leader in the provision
of plumbing and drainage and electrical wiring cover
to the domestic market. Our customers include the
majority of UK water, gas and electricity companies.
Home Service had a record year for policy growth,
with the number of policies increasing by 30% to
2.4 million; 1.73 million plumbing policies, 0.55
million electrical and 0.12 million other policies
including domestic heating. This is the largest
increase in the number of policies since the
business started and policy growth rates in excess
of 25% have now been maintained for the ninth
successive year. Further growth will come from
increasing our market penetration with the existing
plumbing product together with cross selling other
domestic products.
Home Service has increased its outbound telesales
capability to over 140 full time staff. This has been a
significant contributor to our record policy growth at
acquisition costs lower than those for direct mail
marketing. Home Service launched a new product
in the year ‘Water Supply Pipe Cover’, and sold
157,000 policies, highlighting the success of cross
selling to existing members.
Home Service is successfully developing its
manufacturer warranty operation, increasing
warranty card return rates and take up of extended
warranties. In addition to Ideal Boilers, Home
Service is now also working for Mira, one of the
largest UK shower manufacturers.
Home Hotline continues to operate claims handling
and job deployment on behalf of Direct Line for its
‘Home Response 24’ product and this year was
appointed to run the helpline for 1.6 million Direct
Line household insurance policyholders.
Growth in our joint venture business with Generale
des Eaux, based in France, is encouraging, with
over 60,000 plumbing policies. We have achieved
good take up rates, particularly for the supply pipe
product, at acquisition costs which are now
comparable with the UK.
HomeServe plc, the new name for our Home
Service businesses, is one of the UK’s largest
providers of home warranties and assistance
services to major business partners, with a total of
over 9.5 million policies.
Chief Executive’s Review South Staffordshire Group Plc Report & Accounts 2003
<Section Title> – 5
Far Left: Brian Whitty - Chief Executive, South Staffordshire Group Plc
Left: Home Service head office in Walsall
Above: Highway plumber unblocking a drain for a Home Service customer Above: Regency, deploying work to their national employed cleaning network
Right: Servowarm engineer repairing a policyholder’s boiler
Far right: Highway, the UK’s leading provider of emergency repair services to household insurers South Staffordshire Group Plc Report & Accounts 2003
Chief Executive’s Review – 7
Regency is the market leader in the provision of
underwritten furniture warranty and repair services
on behalf of retailers and manufacturers, and now
has over 7 million policies in issue. Since acquisition
in May 2002, Regency has performed well,
achieving an operating profit of £4.0m. In January
2003, Harveys announced that they were
discontinuing their structural warranty product,
which Regency have now replaced with an
alternative extended warranty product. Regency has
also increased its base of directly employed
upholstery repair and cleaning operatives to over
100 enabling it to deliver the high quality service
that warranty buyers expect.
In July 2002, we completed the acquisition of
Highway, the UK’s leading provider of emergency
glass, frame, lock and garage door repair and
replacement services to household insurers. The
acquisition of Highway provides HomeServe with a
market leading position with household insurers and
widens the range of domestic emergency services
we provide. 
Highway achieved a profit of £0.7m in the nine
months to 31 March 2003, compared to £2.4m
over the equivalent period last year. The reduced
profit reflects an increase in costs and a reduction in
average job values. The cost base has increased by
£0.7m which increased our operational capacity in
anticipation of new insurance customers. Whilst
slow to develop, we have now won important new
customers, including Prudential, McDonalds and
Marks and Spencer. Prudential is now one of
Highway’s ten largest customers. There has also
been a 5% fall in average job values, with an impact
of £0.6m. Highway has seen a reduction in higher
value storm damage related work following the
milder weather this year compared to normal.
In order to ensure that we can better meet these
peaks and troughs in demand, we are reorganising
elements of the business and taking steps to
reduce the operating cost base. We are
reorganising the national branch network to reduce
cost and improve efficiency. In addition, we have
strengthened the existing management team,
appointing a Chief Executive, with a proven track
record in this industry, who will join in June 2003.
Highway has continued to develop its employed
plumbing and drainage network and a number of
insurance customers are currently trialling this
service. If successful, this service will represent a
significant new market for Highway.
In March 2003, we acquired Servowarm, which
provides home assistance policies for domestic
boiler breakdowns, supported by a service and
repair operation. Servowarm complements Home
Service’s existing gas heating policy business and
provides a high quality network of 115 employed
domestic gas engineers. Servowarm’s engineers are
trained to repair a wide range of manufacturers’
boilers and will work alongside our existing
subcontract network. 
We are confident that our HomeServe businesses
are well positioned to achieve further significant
growth. We will continue to add new customers and
affinity partners and develop new products and
services. Our UK markets still have significant
potential and we will continue to develop our
international presence in a low risk and cost
effective manner. South Staffordshire Group Plc Report & Accounts 2003
8 – Chief Executive’s Review
OnSite has again seen a doubling in business with
Thames Water from £3.6m to £8m, for whom we
provide a range of planned and reactive drainage
services on the sewerage networks that serve
London and the home counties. This growth follows
a substantial investment last year by OnSite in a
dedicated call centre, operating equipment and
employee training to support the Thames contract. 
The division has also seen a significant increase in
the provision of planned and reactive drainage
services for the London Underground rail network
with turnover increasing from £4.6m to £6.4m.
Following the restructuring of the London
Underground, we are now working closely with both
Tubelines and Metronet, the new PPP consortia. 
We added specialist water treatment to the
division’s offering following the transfer of the water
testing and dosing operations from South
Staffordshire Water into OnSite. This business has
performed well during the year, winning work from
other Water Companies, the Coal Authority and the
Environment Agency.
In order to broaden our already established
industrial and commercial client base and to
increase our service offering, we acquired Middleton
Doorman in August 2002. The Company provides
specialist maintenance, mechanical and electrical
services and automatic door and access
maintenance to commercial and public sector
clients.
Middleton is contracted to provide specialist
maintenance services to the London Underground
rail network, thereby increasing the range of
services we provide to this client. Middleton also
has an established and strong relationship with the
City of Birmingham, where we provide significant
M&E services for their public buildings. Since
acquisition, Middleton has successfully won a
number of important new clients, including Argos,
Nationwide Building Society and The Big Food
Group, whilst continuing to provide a
comprehensive service to Tesco Stores.
We continue to see growth opportunities for OnSite.
We have strengthened our senior management
team and we are confident that we have the skills
and resources which will enable us to continue to
build upon our success in the utility and commercial
outsourcing market.
OnSite provides a comprehensive range of
infrastructure maintenance services to major utilities,
public authorities and a wide commercial and
industrial client base, through long term partnerships
and contractual relationships with its customers.  South Staffordshire Group Plc Report & Accounts 2003
<Section Title> – 9
Far left: OnSite provide specialist services including CCTV surveys of drains
Left and above: Middleton provide specialist maintenance services to commercial
and public sector clients South Staffordshire Group Plc Report & Accounts 2003
10 – Chief Executive’s Review
The Customer Solutions division provides a range of
services to companies to assist them in managing
their customer contact.
Echo
Echo Managed Services specialises in the provision
of customer management services such as billing,
debt collection and contact management. Echo was
established in 2001 to provide services to its initial
customers, South Staffordshire Water and Severn
Trent. Echo South West, our joint venture with
South West Water to provide customer contact and
billing, has performed well during the year. During
this first full year of trading the joint venture has
delivered efficiency savings and maintained high
levels of customer service.
Last year we added Green Flag and Britannic
Assurance as customers and we have continued to
develop these relationships. New clients won during
the year include Spring Recruitment and East
Devon District Council in addition to a number of
short term contracts. 
Echo has focused on developing niche offerings,
including recruitment screening, customer
satisfaction surveys and outbound telemarketing,
where we can add specialist skills and value. We
have consistently demonstrated to our customers
that we can achieve high service levels as well as
cost reductions for these outsourced services. 
Rapid
During the year South West Water completed the
implementation of our Rapid software product. The
software was used successfully in the annual billing
of South West Water’s unmeasured customer base
during the year.
Our support to Bristol and Wessex Billing Services
continued with the completion of the second phase
of software implementation, now extended to
include the measured customer base. The system is
now used by the joint billing venture to bill the full
customer base of Bristol Water and Wessex Water.
Rapid software is now used to bill over 3 million UK
utility customers. We will continue to develop the
product during the coming year to meet the
requirements of our existing clients. The sales and
implementation cycle for Rapid’s products is
typically over 12 months and we do not expect any
significant licence fee revenue in the coming year. 
Mail Solutions
Our mailing services business has improved its
margins despite operating in a highly competitive
market. We have achieved this through our
continued focus on efficiency and quality.
We provide services to high profile customers
including HSBC, Barclaycard, Lloyds Bank and
Npower and we have supplied tickets for major
sporting events such as the Champions League
final and the FA Cup final. 
This market will continue to be highly competitive.
However, we are confident that we are well
positioned to continue to improve our overall trading
performance. Far left: Mail Solutions specialises in an efficient and quality service
Left: Echo, providing customer management services from its Walsall call centre
Above: Rapid software is now used to bill over 3 million UK utility customers Above: Using remote meter reading technology to improve service standards and achieve efficiency savings
Right and far right: Detecting leaks to ensure demanding leakage targets are met South Staffordshire Group Plc Report & Accounts 2003
Chief Executive’s Review – 13
South Staffordshire Water continues to be at the
forefront of the Water Industry, delivering exceptional
value for money through a combination of low bills
and high levels of service.
The last few years have seen significant change,
including outsourcing of customer services to Echo
and laboratory analysis to Severn Trent, together
with the consolidation of our divisional offices. Each
of these initiatives has been successful, both in
improving service standards to customers and
achieving cost reductions. We are continuing to
make excellent progress towards Ofwat’s efficiency
targets to reduce operating costs in the year and
are on track to meet Ofwat’s target reduction in
operating expenditure for the period 2000 to 2005.
Our domestic customers continue to pay the
second lowest charge in England and Wales with
annual bills of £86, which when combined with
Severn Trent’s sewerage charge, which we collect
on their behalf through our contract with Echo,
means that our domestic customers benefit from
the lowest overall charge in England and Wales. In
addition, our large industrial clients enjoy the lowest
volumetric rates in the country. We achieved water
quality compliance levels of 99.9%, amongst the
very highest in the Industry. Our demanding leakage
targets were also achieved. 
Ofwat’s latest annual review of customer service
again reported that all of the company’s service
levels were in the highest category and the Water
Company was ranked second highest in overall
performance assessment for the industry for
2001/02. Levels of service for 2002/03 have seen
further improvement.
The Water Company raised £85m through the issue
of an unsecured index linked bond. This has
enabled the business to improve its capital structure
by funding the repurchase of Water Company
shares from the Group. Gearing within the Water
Company has now increased to 65% of Regulated
Asset Value.
The Company has seen another substantial year of
capital investment, primarily on the extensive
programme of water treatment upgrades agreed
with the Drinking Water Inspectorate together with
increasing capacity at its second largest treatment
works.
2003 will be an important year as we move towards
the setting of prices for the period 2005 to 2010.
We will submit the Company’s draft Business Plan
to the Regulator in August 2003 in anticipation of a
final determination in November 2004.
Brian Whitty
Group Chief Executive
3 June 2003
