 Chief Executive 
Officer’s Review
Dear shareholder
At our Investor Day in March 
2013, we set out our strategy  
to Achieve Scientific Leadership, 
Return to Growth and ensure 
AstraZeneca is a Great Place  
to Work. A year on, we’ve built 
momentum behind our strategic 
priorities, in particular our 
objective of achieving scientific 
leadership, and started to deliver 
on some of the targets we have 
set ourselves. You can find more 
detail about the progress being 
made throughout this Annual 
Report, together with some  
case studies indicating how  
our pioneering science has  
the potential to transform lives.
Achieving scientific leadership
Accelerating and replenishing our portfolio 
in our three core therapy areas is central to 
our mission and vital to our success. I’m 
really pleased by the progress made during 
2013. At the end of the year, we had 99 
projects in our pipeline, of which 85 were  
in the clinical phase of development and 14 
were approved, launched or filed. That total 
included 11 new molecular entities, or 
NMEs, in Phase III of development or  
under regulatory review, almost double  
the number we had at the end of 2012. 
Four NMEs that progressed to Phase III 
came from our existing pipeline: olaparib, 
selumetinib and moxetumomab pasudotox 
are potential cancer treatments, while 
benralizumab is for severe asthma. A 
further two NMEs came from transactions 
we undertook during the year: PT003, for 
the treatment of COPD, came to us from 
the acquisition of Pearl Therapeutics and 
Epanova, a novel treatment for dyslipidaemia, 
came from the acquisition of Omthera.
Alongside this, we submitted regulatory 
filings for naloxegol, for opioid-induced 
constipation, in the EU and US, and 
olaparib in the EU. Our diabetes treatment, 
Farxiga, was approved in the US in January 
2014, having been approved in the EU in 
2012 under the name Forxiga. Xigduo, also 
for diabetes, was approved in the EU in 
January 2014.
I am particularly excited about the  
progress we made with our early-stage 
pipeline in 2013, including the multiple  
trials that are now under way in our cancer 
immunotherapy portfolio. Collaborations 
and acquisitions further strengthened the 
progress being made, including AlphaCore 
in cardiovascular and metabolic disease  
as well as Amplimmune and Spirogen  
in oncology. 
Of course, there is no innovation without risk 
and we discontinued 15 projects during the 
year. This included fostamatinib where the 
results of clinical trials meant we decided 
not to proceed with regulatory filings.
We continue to redeploy resources to 
convert our promising late-stage pipeline 
into medicines that will transform patients’ 
lives and fund our growth platforms. Our 
productivity and efficiency programmes  
are providing some of the headroom to 
make those investments possible. 
Platforms for growth 
As the Chairman noted, our five growth 
platforms delivered an incremental  
$1.2 billion of revenue in 2013. While  
our focus on these platforms is beginning  
to bear fruit, we have more work to do if 
they are to deliver to their full potential.
Brilinta/Brilique is a key product for  
us and it continues to grow globally. 
However, despite encouraging progress  
in the US, there are challenges that are  
still to be overcome.
Our long-term commitment to diabetes  
was reinforced with the acquisition of 
BMS’s 50% interest in our joint diabetes 
business. The acquisition, which was 
completed in February 2014, included the 
rights for the development, manufacture 
and commercialisation of the business’s 
global diabetes assets. We believe that 
consolidating ownership of this portfolio  
will allow us to serve the needs of people 
with diabetes better. As a result of  
sales below expectations, we incurred  
an impairment charge for Bydureon, 
acquired as part of the BMS acquisition  
of Amylin. Nevertheless, we continue  
to have confidence in the commercial  
future of the product. 
Overall, diabetes revenues grew globally 
last year and we are stepping up our 
investment and improving execution of  
our plans to take full advantage of our 
unique portfolio.
In our respiratory franchise, Symbicort 
drove growth with a strong performance 
in the US, Japan and Emerging Markets. 
In Japan, our second largest market, 
growth was also helped by the performance 
of Nexium. Emerging Markets revenue 
growth of 8% meant we met our target 
of high single digit growth (at CER), with 
growth in China of 19% over the year.
While our revenue continues to be 
impacted by the loss of exclusivity for key 
brands, reducing by $2.2 billion in 2013, 
the progress being made provides us with 
the confidence that our 2017 revenues 
will be broadly in line with what we achieved 
in 2013.
8 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013
Strategic Report In Simon’s place I am pleased to be able 
to welcome Marc Dunoyer who joined us in 
June 2013 and took over as Chief Financial 
Officer in November 2013. While we look 
for permanent successors, I am grateful to 
Ruud Dobber, who assumed the portfolio 
strategy role, and Caroline Hempstead  
who took over Lynn’s role. They are part  
of a strong SET team that continues to 
provide inspirational leadership as we focus 
the organisation on the continued delivery 
of our goals.
Looking ahead
As I commented at the start of my Review, 
I am pleased with the momentum we built 
in 2013 against our strategic priorities, 
particularly our objective of achieving 
scientific leadership. I look forward to 
reporting on how our journey progresses in 
2014 as we seek to build on our successes 
and realise our ambition for AstraZeneca.
Pascal Soriot 
Chief Executive Officer
helping improve collaboration, as well  
as reducing complexity and eradicating 
unnecessary cost. 
Overall progress is reflected in surveys that 
have shown an increasing employee belief 
in our strategic course. This is heartening, 
not least because implementation of our 
strategic priorities has created uncertainty 
for many. For my part, I will continue to 
work to ensure that we undertake the 
necessary changes with respect for the 
individuals concerned.
A great place to work needs great  
leaders and we welcomed many talented 
individuals at all levels in 2013. The year 
also saw two of our SET members leave. 
Simon Lowth left us at the end of October 
after nearly six years at AstraZeneca. He 
made a significant and lasting contribution 
to the business. I will miss him and would 
like to wish him well in the next chapter  
of his career. Also stepping down during 
the year was Lynn Tetrault, who did so  
on health grounds. I wish her a speedy 
recovery to full health. Lynn also made  
a significant contribution throughout her 
long career.
Great place to work
Our achievements are, of course, down 
to the people who work at AstraZeneca, 
as well as our partners and collaborators. 
However, I firmly believe that these efforts 
are more productive when we all share  
a common purpose. That is why I attach 
such great importance to the work we did 
during the year both to define our purpose 
as a Group – who we are and the unique 
contribution we make – as well as to define 
the values that describe our fundamental 
beliefs and bring our purpose to life.
Over 30,000 employees registered for our 
‘culture jam’, an online conversation about 
what it means to push the boundaries of 
science to deliver life-changing medicines, 
and about what our values mean in 
practice. It was a defining moment for 
AstraZeneca that demonstrated the 
passion our employees have for the work  
they do. 
Alongside this, I am pleased with the 
progress made following our decision 
to invest in three strategic R&D centres, 
including the creation of a new UK-based 
centre in Cambridge. This will bring teams 
together and closer to scientific partners, 
“ I am pleased with the momentum  
we built in 2013 against our strategic 
priorities, particularly our objective of 
achieving scientific leadership.”
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report
9 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013
