 Chairman’s  
Statement
“ As expected, our financial 
performance in 2013 reflected 
the ongoing impact of the loss 
of exclusivity for several key 
brands, with revenue down  
6% to $25,71 1 million.”
Dear shareholder
One of the key responsibilities 
of a board of directors is to set  
a company’s strategy. As the 
CEO outlines in his Review on 
the following pages, and as we 
seek to demonstrate throughout 
this Annual Report, your Board 
has chosen a very clear strategic 
route to follow. It is rooted in our 
heritage as a company focused 
on innovative science to deliver 
great medicines and sets out our 
ambition to lead in science and 
return to growth.
Good governance
As your Directors review our strategy and 
carry out their other duties, it is my role  
as Chairman to lead the Board effectively. 
To my mind, good governance is at the 
heart of that. So that you can easily see 
how we are governed, we have provided 
a corporate governance overview on page 
26 of this Annual Report. We also briefly 
describe how our governance structure 
supports the delivery of our business 
strategy. You can find more detail in my 
full Corporate Governance Report from 
page 88. On page 24, we have also 
provided an overview of the risks that 
might prevent us from achieving the full 
potential of our strategy.
Transparent reporting
Hand in hand with good governance goes 
transparent reporting and this year we have 
made a number of other changes in the 
Annual Report intended to promote this. 
Some have been caused by changes in UK 
reporting regulations, others by changes to 
the Corporate Governance Code and some 
by ever-evolving reporting best practice. 
Significant changes include the introduction 
of a Strategic Report, which starts by 
explaining our business model and goes 
on to describe how each element helps 
deliver our strategic goals. The Strategic 
Report is introduced in more detail  
on page 1.
This year, the Annual Report also includes 
a revised Directors’ Remuneration Report 
from page 102, which is introduced by the 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, 
John Varley. A separate Audit Committee 
Report is introduced by the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee, Rudy Markham.
All the changes we have made are also 
intended to reflect our greater than ever 
efforts to make this Annual Report fair, 
balanced and understandable.
Challenging environment
Any balanced review of AstraZeneca 
needs to reflect the environment in which 
we operate. The challenging conditions 
which I touched on last year continue. 
The world pharmaceutical market is still 
growing and underlying demographic 
trends remain favourable to long-term 
industry growth. However, many of the 
drivers of demand and supply in the 
industry are under pressure.
6 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013
Strategic Report  Outlook 
As we look to the future, we expect a 
low-to-mid single digit percentage decline 
in revenue at CER for 2014. In percentage 
terms, Core EPS for 2014 is expected to 
decline in the teens at CER. Following the 
acquisition of BMS’s 50% interest in our 
joint diabetes business, and as the diabetes 
business’s pipeline of new products is 
progressively launched, we expect 2017 
revenues will be broadly in line with 2013 
revenues. This expectation involves a 
number of assumptions, including, among 
other things, Nexium US generic launch  
in May 2014.
Appreciation
Before closing, and on behalf of the  
Board, I want to thank the employees 
of AstraZeneca whose efforts helped  
us achieve so much in 2013 as we lay  
the foundations for leading in science  
and returning to growth. In particular,  
I want to express my appreciation to  
Pascal and all the members of the SET  
for the leadership they have shown  
and the inspiration they have provided  
to the organisation.
Finally, I would like to thank all my fellow 
Directors for the contribution they have 
made to our discussions throughout a 
busy 2013. We look forward to welcoming 
as many of you as possible to our Annual 
General Meeting in April.
Leif Johansson 
Chairman
Core EPS for 2013 were $5.05, down  
23% on 2012. This decline was greater  
than the decline in revenue primarily  
due to our investment in our key growth 
platforms and strengthened pipeline. 
Reported EPS for the year was down  
55% to $2.04. The impairment of Bydureon 
in the fourth quarter reduced Reported  
EPS by $1.10, resulting in a Reported loss 
per share for the quarter of $0.42.
A responsible company
I firmly believe that our commitment to 
good financial performance needs to be 
matched by a continued focus on being 
a responsible company, by working with 
integrity and delivering sustainable business 
development. I therefore fully support the 
decision we have made to focus our 
responsible business activities on access 
to healthcare, diversity and reducing our 
environmental impact. It is where I believe 
we are able to implement standards that 
will accelerate our business strategy and 
deliver wider benefits to society.
It is also gratifying to see our current efforts 
recognised by again being listed in the Dow 
Jones Sustainability World Index in 2013, 
with a record-equalling score, and retaining 
our listing on the European Index for the 
sixth year running.
Return to shareholders 
Consistent with our progressive dividend 
policy to maintain or grow the dividend 
each year, the Board has recommended  
a second interim dividend of $1.90. This 
brings the dividend for the full year to 
$2.80 (176.0 pence, SEK 18.33). 
The Board regularly reviews our distribution 
policy and overall financial strategy to 
continue to strike a balance between the 
interests of the business, our financial 
creditors and our shareholders. Having 
regard for business investment, funding the 
progressive dividend policy and meeting 
our debt service obligations, we currently 
believe it is appropriate to continue the 
suspension of the share repurchase 
programme which was announced in 
October 2012. We continue to target a 
strong, investment grade credit rating.
On the demand side, we face increased 
competition from generic drugs as some  
of the world’s most successful medicines 
come off patent. In addition, securing 
recognition (through reimbursement 
approval) and reward for innovation 
(through favourable pricing and sales) 
is becoming more difficult in the face of 
intense pricing pressures, particularly 
in Established Markets facing rising 
healthcare costs. On the supply side, the 
industry faces an ongoing R&D productivity 
challenge. R&D costs have risen significantly 
over the past decade, while industry-wide 
probability of success of new medicines, 
though showing some recent signs of 
improvement, has not kept pace.
Loss of exclusivity
Loss of exclusivity has had, and continues 
to have, a significant impact on AstraZeneca. 
In 2013, loss of exclusivity on brands such 
as Arimidex, Atacand, Crestor, Nexium 
and Seroquel IR in a number of markets 
accounted for a revenue decline of some 
$2.2 billion. Over the coming years, this 
trend will continue as medicines such as 
Crestor, Nexium and Seroquel XR continue 
to lose exclusivity in markets such as the 
US and Europe.
Of course, loss of exclusivity is a normal 
part of an innovative medicine’s life-cycle. 
It comes at the end of the period when a 
new medicine is safeguarded from being 
copied so that we can generate returns  
on the investment we have made, both to 
reinvest in the business and provide an 
appropriate return to you, our owners. A 
well-functioning intellectual property system 
of this type, which rewards innovation, is 
the principal economic safeguard in our 
industry. It underpins our business model, 
which we explore in more detail in the 
Business model section from page 10.
Our performance in 2013 
As expected, our financial performance in 
2013 reflected the ongoing impact of the 
loss of exclusivity for several key brands, 
with revenue down 6% to $25,711 million 
(2012: $27 ,973 million). Core operating 
profit fell by 22% to $8,390 million (2012: 
$11,159 million). The decline in revenue was, 
in part, offset by our key growth platforms: 
Brilinta, our diabetes franchise, respiratory, 
Emerging Markets and Japan, which 
delivered an incremental $1.2 billion of 
revenue in 2013. 
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report
7 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013
