 Chairman’s Statement
Introduction
It is with great pleasure that I welcome all new Southern Cross
Healthcare (“Southern Cross”) shareholders following the Initial
Public Offering (“IPO”) of shares earlier this year. The last 
12 months have seen the Company grow significantly to a position
where it is now the UK’s leading provider of care home services 
for the elderly and also a major provider of specialist services for
people with physical and/or learning-disabilities.
As the market leader, and primary consolidator in the UK care 
home services sector, Southern Cross has benefited from the
growing demand for high-quality, value-for-money, long-term care
services across the UK. The success of our strategy of acquiring 
and developing modern, purpose-built care homes in areas of high
demand is reflected in the financial results for the 52 weeks to 
1 October 2006.
Results and Dividends 
Turnover for the 52 weeks ended 1 October 2006 increased by 
75%, on an annualised basis, to £610.9m, primarily as a result of
the acquisition of Ashbourne Healthcare completed in November
2005. Average fees per occupied bed also increased during the year
by 8.0% and a number of individual new homes were acquired and
developed from the Company’s pipeline of growth opportunities.
Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, exceptional
charges and charges for future minimum rental increases (“Adjusted
EBITDA”) was £48.8m representing an increase of 67.1% compared
to the prior year on an annualised basis. The loss before taxation
was £17.4m, reflecting the impact of the IFRS adjustment for
charges for future minimum rental increases of £30.7m, exceptional
charges relating to the IPO which amounted to £3.1m, and the
financing costs of the capital structure pre-IPO.
Basic loss per ordinary share was 9.4p after a UK Corporation 
tax credit of £5.3m. Adjusted earnings per share before charges 
for future minimum rental increases and exceptional charges and
the taxation impact thereof were 10.0p.
Had the Company been listed for the whole of the 52 weeks ended
1 October 2006, the Board considers that it would have recommended
a dividend of 4.8p per ordinary share. Taking into account the 
82 days for which the Company was listed prior to the financial year
end, the Board is recommending a pro rata dividend of 1.1p per
ordinary share. Going forward the Company expects to grow
dividends from this level to reflect the growth prospects and cashflow
generation of the business, while maintaining an appropriate level
of dividend cover.
4 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC   Annual Report and Accounts 2006
It is with great pleasure that I welcome all new
Southern Cross Healthcare shareholders following
the Initial Public Offering of shares earlier this year.
William Colvin Chairman Management and Staff
The Board, on behalf of all shareholders, would like to thank all 
the dedicated staff working in our homes and also those supporting
the homes, as well as the management team who oversee the
entire national operation. Their hard work and commitment have
enabled us to build Southern Cross to become market leader 
in the sector.
Outlook
Care home services are playing an increasingly important role in
the overall healthcare provision across the UK. The combination 
of an ageing population and the reduction in overall bed numbers
within the NHS and the long-term care sector have resulted in the
growing demand for quality care services.
Looking ahead to the next 12 months, we believe Southern Cross is 
well placed to achieve further progress in both revenue growth and
profitability. We have secured £300m of landlord funds to enable 
us to continue our acquisition plans and we have a significantly
expanded development pipeline which will add a further 1,000 beds
to our portfolio by December 2007. At the same time, we shall
continue our drive for growth in fee and occupancy rates, as well 
as maintaining tight cost control.
The Board remains confident that there will be a growing demand
for our services and remains firmly committed to ensuring that all
our homes provide the best possible levels of care for all of our
valued clients.
William Colvin
Chairman
Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC   Annual Report and Accounts 2006 5
