 02 / Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Overview
Chairman’s  
Statement
Ray Miles
Non-Executive Director and Chairman
Strategic Focus
During the period, we maintained a clear strategic focus on the 
Group’s New Horizons change programme the aim of which is  
to create an organisation capable of providing universally trusted 
levels of care based on the respect and dignity of the individual 
and delivered in modern, high quality accommodation. To some 
extent, the operational imperatives underlying this programme  
– improving the quality of our service delivery, investing in the 
development of our people and management systems, and 
capturing efficiency savings – have been given more immediacy  
by the need to meet the challenges posed by the macro-economic 
factors impacting the Group.
In common with other sectors, economic uncertainty was 
prevalent during the period under review. The period started 
positively before conditions became more difficult as concerns 
grew about the public deficit and future government policy, 
including the significant impact of likely cuts in public spending  
to be announced in the autumn Comprehensive Spending Review. 
This was always likely to have a substantial impact on a business 
so reliant on Local Authority funding.
Against this backdrop, the Group experienced lower admissions 
than seen for some time, resulting in a fall in occupancy rates.  
In addition, fee negotiations with Local Authorities became more 
difficult. At the same time, cost pressures continued unabated 
including the negative effects of rent escalation, rising minimum 
wage and higher utility costs.
Against this background, the need for delivering the New Horizons 
programme is clearer than ever. Its main objectives are to:
Enhance care delivery so that we are ultimately recognised  •	
as the most trusted care home group in the UK.
Increase the number of self-funding residents, thus reducing •	
our dependence on public funding and improving margins.
Improve efficiency so that everything is done in a better,  •	
more effective and lower cost manner.
Reorganise our management structure to create a flatter,  •	
more responsive and accountable management team. 
In all of these we have made substantial progress during the 
period but there is still much to be done.
As announced on 25 November 2010, the Board has been 
approached by other parties expressing potential interest in the 
Group. The approaches are still preliminary in nature, and the 
Board continues to believe it to be in shareholders’ interests to 
continue to hold exploratory discussions.
In common with other sectors, 
economic uncertainty was 
prevalent during the period  
under review. The period started 
positively before conditions became 
more difficult as concerns grew 
about the public deficit and future 
government policy, including the 
significant impact of likely cuts in 
public spending to be announced 
in the autumn Comprehensive 
Spending Review. This was always 
likely to have a substantial impact 
on a business so reliant on Local 
Authority funding. 03 / Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Overview
Overview
Financials 
The macro-economic factors described above combined to 
negatively impact Group results and in March we lowered market 
expectations for the full year outturn. An adjusted EBITDA of £53.4m 
was achieved compared with £72.5m in 2009 and £78.1m in 2008. 
Revenue grew by 2.3% to £958.6m from last year’s £937.1m. Home 
EBITDAR margin before central costs has fallen by 1.7% to 29.3%. 
Occupancy in our mature homes fell from 88.4% to 86.1%.
Net debt fell further by £25.8m to £7.3m, a significant achievement 
given the underlying trading environment. The Group continues to 
pursue its policy of further reducing debt and, therefore, the Board 
has decided not to propose a final dividend for FY2010. 
On 19 May, we announced we had consolidated the Group’s 
banking arrangements into a revised amortising £50m revolving 
credit facility (RCF). This facility replaced all the Group’s existing 
bank facilities and reduced the number of Syndicate lenders  
from eight banks to two. I am pleased to report that following 
recent discussions with the Group’s lenders, revisions to the 
existing banking arrangements were agreed on 6 December 2010. 
The facility now comprises an amortising £45m RCF repayable in 
September 2012, with the fixed charge covenant relaxed from 
1.23x to 1.1x. 
Industry Developments
In July 2010, the Government launched its Commission on the 
Funding of Care and Support (known as the Dilnot Commission)  
to examine the future provision and funding of care in the UK. 
Southern Cross fully supports the work of this important body  
and made an early initial submission to it. 
We look forward to working with the Commission to help it reach  
a balanced view of how our society can provide affordable and 
sustainable care capable of meeting the long-term needs of an 
ageing population. In particular, we believe the Commission should 
play a critical role in encouraging Local Authorities, the NHS and 
care providers such as ourselves to work together in developing  
the services required to meet the future needs of an ageing 
population. Such collaboration should enhance the care delivered 
to our elderly population, whilst generating better value for all 
those who commission care and moving us towards a system 
which pays providers the true cost of care and alleviates current 
imbalances in fee rates around the country.
The NHS is changing, with GP consortia about to assume 
responsibility for commissioning replacing PCTs in this regard.  
They will be responsible for organising healthcare and deciding 
which services to buy and from whom. While remaining focused 
on our core elderly care services, we will continue to respond 
flexibly to changing market demands and take advantage of the 
opportunities presented. This will include offering more specialised 
care – for example, in dementia, palliative and step down care. As 
people’s perception of appropriate personalised care for individuals 
evolves, this will also involve greater levels of day care provision, 
outreach care in the community and short-term and respite care 
as Local Authorities seek to encourage and support people to stay 
in their own homes, with support, for as long as practicable. 
At the Heart of the 
Local Community
At Southern Cross, we encourage our residents to enjoy 
as active and independent a lifestyle as possible. Our 
approach to care is based on treating every resident as an 
individual, not only with regard to their specific care and 
nursing requirements, but also with an eye to enabling 
them to pursue the interests, hobbies and activities they 
have always enjoyed and gained so much from. 
One area where this strategy is particularly appreciated 
by residents is relations with the local community in which 
they live. There is no reason why they should not continue 
to play a valuable role in the life of their local community 
– just as they have always done. That’s why we encourage 
residents and their families to get involved with a wide 
number of community related activities. These may 
include, for example, raising money for the special baby 
unit at the local hospital, or making a contribution to a 
local youth sports group or fundraising for local or national 
charities. The choice is endless – and any funds raised  
by our individual homes are topped up or matched by  
a central donation from Southern Cross itself. 
We are proud of our residents’ record for helping a wide 
range of deserving causes and see it as a vital part of them 
remaining an active, motivated and appreciated section  
of society. 
Of course, community engagement is a two-way process. 
As well as reaching out into local communities, we also 
encourage others to see our care homes for what they are 
– vitally important local amenities and vibrant communities 
in themselves. Residents can benefit enormously from 
regular visits from, for example, local school children and 
theatre groups or others such as crafts and pet therapy 
specialists. In this way, as wide a range of people as 
possible can see that they have a role to play in the  
well-being of elderly people in our communities.  05 / Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Overview
Overview
Chairman’s Statement 
(continued)
Landlords
During the period, the Group engaged Morgan Stanley to review  
its lease arrangements with landlords. All leases are subject to 
escalation clauses. Whilst many are fixed, a significant number  
of rents are tied to RPI, resulting in rents currently rising faster  
than the fees we charge. This work is ongoing and the Group has 
entered into a dialogue with some of its landlords to explore ways 
in which rents might be restructured to provide greater stability 
and a stronger covenant.
People
The Group remains a significant employer with a dedicated team 
of over 43,000 people working in homes across the UK. I never  
fail to be impressed by the commitment and expertise of our  
staff, so often displayed in testing circumstances. For most,  
their job is more than a way of earning a living – it is a vocation. 
Increasingly, we seek to recognise this in our comprehensive 
training programmes and remuneration packages. Our people  
are one of the reasons that I am optimistic about the future.  
On behalf of the Board, I thank colleagues throughout the  
business for their outstanding contribution in a difficult year. 
In August, Irene Gray joined the company as Director of Care.  
This is an important milestone. Her appointment is a clear 
demonstration of the Group’s commitment to take the lead  
in clinical governance and deliver dependable high quality  
services which are respected by those who commission care  
as well as by residents and their families.
Notwithstanding, we see difficult trading conditions in the short 
term, we remain as determined as ever to forge ahead with  
our change programme which we confidently expect to deliver 
long-term, industry-leading levels of quality and service. This will 
put Southern Cross in a strong position to take advantage of the 
demographic trends that continue to indicate a longer-term 
increase in average age and demand for elderly care services.
Ray Miles 
Chairman
Name: Tom Spence 
Job title: Activities Co-ordinator 
Enabling our residents to be as physically  
and mentally active as they want to be is a 
cornerstone of our holistic approach to care.  
In each of our regions, we have members of 
staff, such as Tom, whose role is to ensure  
that residents have access to a wide range  
of activities catering to as many tastes,  
abilities and hobbies as possible. These can 
range from gardening to fundraising for  
worthy local causes, from craftwork to  
musical and theatrical performances,  
from games such as carpet bowls to  
outings to local places of interest.
Notwithstanding, we see difficult 
trading conditions in the short 
term, we remain as determined 
as ever to forge ahead with  
our change programme which 
we confidently expect to deliver 
long-term, industry-leading 
levels of quality and service.
