 08 / Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Business Review
Chief Executive’s 
Statement
Jamie Buchan 
Chief Executive
Overview
During the period, we have made significant progress towards 
transforming the business such that, by 2015, we become 
recognised as providing the most trusted and sought after care 
experience in the UK. In pursuit of this aim we successfully 
completed the first phase of our internal change programme,  
New Horizons, which I introduced in last year’s report and for 
which the following objectives (end calendar year 2011) have  
been communicated:
Improving service quality such that at least 85% of our  •	
homes are externally judged good or excellent.
Adding 1,200 self funding residents, thereby raising their •	
proportion of total residents to 22%.
Reducing Home Manager turnover to 22% per annum. •	
Re-engineering the Group’s cost structure to achieve savings  •	
of at least 1% of revenue.
Overall we believe that the New Horizons programme will generate 
between £15-£20m of annualised value to the business by the end 
of 2011 together with a transformed operational capability. 
My priorities for the business  
are as follows: 
• 	 	 I m p r o v e 	 c a r e 	 d e l i v e r y 	 t o 	 o u r	
residents in a measurable  
and sustainable way. 
• 	 	 G r o w 	 o u r 	 s h a r e 	 o f 	 d e m e n t i a ,	 
end of life and ‘step down’  
care markets. 
• 	 	 I n c r e a s e 	 t h e 	 n u m b e r 	 o f 	 s e l f	
funding and co-paying residents. 
• 	 	 A c h i e v e 	 r e a l 	 r e d u c t i o n s 	 i n 	 c o s t	 
to serve. 
• 	 	 I n v e s t 	 i n 	 o u r 	 c a r e 	 h o m e s 	 a n d	 
in the staff who deliver care.
Name: Harry Carson 
Job title: Catering Manager
If an army marches on its stomach, then the 
same can be said of residents in care homes!  
A balanced, healthy diet is absolutely vital for 
people who are perhaps no longer as active as 
they once were. Behind the scenes, an army of 
catering managers such as Harry ensure that 
our residents up and down the country receive 
three good square meals every day. Catering  
as far as possible to individual preferences and 
requirements, Harry works closely with Southern 
Cross’ dedicated experts to ensure that the 
meals we serve are nutritious, appetising and 
well cooked. Business Review 10 / Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Statement 
(continued)
New Horizons
1. Organisation Structure
In order to enable the business to meet its objectives,  
between February and July of this year, we undertook a major 
re-organisation of our field operations and central functions.  
We de-layered our operations function from seven to four 
management levels, exiting 38% of operations staff above  
Home Manager level and invested the savings in:
Decentralising operations to four P&L accountable regions. •	
Establishing a care function. •	
Establishing a full human resources function. •	
Establishing a sales capability. •	
Whilst the reorganisation has not been without its challenges,  
it is already clear that the new structure has led to improved care 
quality (lower number of embargoed homes) and a better sales 
mix (more self funders) whilst empowering Home Managers to 
develop their businesses for the benefit of the communities which 
they serve. 
Regional Business Units
Our four new Regional Directors have fully established their 
regional teams in which 33 Area Managers, each with a team  
of c21 Home Managers, play the central role. Within each area, 
Home Managers are further supported by a local team of subject 
matter experts covering people management, training, sales 
development and business analysis. In addition, each Area 
Manager team is supported by a dedicated Care Quality Advisor 
responsible for raising standards of care. 
Care Function
Our overriding obligation and commitment is to deliver excellent, 
affordable, personalised care to our residents and we have made 
strong progress in the creation of a care function within the Group. 
In February we created over sixty new, field-based, roles including 
a national team of Service Quality Inspectors who inspect every 
one of the Group’s homes on a risk-assessed frequency against  
a set of demanding standards based on individual resident 
outcomes. In August, the Group announced the appointment  
of Professor Irene Gray to lead the function as Director of Care. 
Irene’s job is to raise standards of care and clinical governance 
across the portfolio and to act as a champion for the development 
of the nursing and care profession within Southern Cross. 
A revised Clinical Governance system has also been introduced  
to provide assurance over standards. New systems are being 
deployed to analyse key care data with the objective of 
establishing a set of indicators which will allow the Group to  
predict homes which are failing and, consequently, to adopt  
an early intervention approach.
We have continued to make good progress against our target  
for improving the quality of care delivered in our homes. The table 
below shows that the number of homes in England judged by  
the external regulator as Good or Excellent had risen 5% to 82%  
by Q3 of 2010. Full year figures are not available as the Care Quality 
Commission discontinued their star rating system in June. The 
Group is confident however that its internal quality inspection 
process will continue to drive standards up whilst reducing the 
number of poor and adequate homes.
 SCH SCH  
 2010 2009 
 Q3 Full 
CQC Scoring*
1
 (Actual) (Actual)
Good/Excellent 82% 77%
Poor/Adequate 18% 23%
* 
1
  CQC no longer update their quality scores following the implementation of the 
new standards under the Health and Social Care Act 2008.
People Management
Ours is a people business and I am very pleased indeed with  
the progress which has been made in delivering a comprehensive 
set of people management services to our care homes.
During the period, the Group introduced a full suite of processes 
covering staff recruitment, induction, performance appraisal and 
training. A national HR support hub was created to act as a one 
stop shop for all internal people processes and enquiries covering 
our 43,000 staff. In addition, a national training organisation, 
embedded within our Regional Business Units, has been created  
to act as the delivery vehicle for statutory, clinical and management 
training across all staff groups. In particular, our Home Managers 
have received training in business management and finance, 
people management and sales which has already paid dividends 
in reducing staff turnover by 3% and in increasing the numbers  
of self funding residents within our homes. Overall I am confident 
that an improved level of staff engagement has been achieved.
We are committed to further developing and refining training 
opportunities for everybody in the business. Having the best trained 
staff in the sector is not only the right and responsible thing to do 
for our people, it is absolutely central to our business model: high job 
satisfaction and motivation levels will lead directly to better quality 
service delivery which will enhance our reputation.  11 / Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Business Review
Business Review
During the period the Group invested in the creation of a human 
resources database which will go live in early 2011 and which will 
capture all staff records, thereby enabling a wide range of people 
management and efficiency programmes to be undertaken.
A Time and Attendance rostering system is being rolled out across 
all homes. Indications from the first 60 homes to use this system 
are that labour costs are reduced by more than 1% as a result  
of greater control and accuracy of rostering. The system will also 
enable the set up of internal staff bank groups which the Group 
believes will lead to a reduction in agency costs.
Sales 
One of the priorities we have set ourselves is to improve the 
Group’s penetration of the self funding market. During the period, 
the average weekly fee for self funding residents was £668 versus 
£534 for residents whose care was funded by Local Authorities. 
The Group has developed a new sales process supported by an 
on-line enquiry management system and a small national sales 
call centre. Following a successful pilot in the South of England, 
which showed an increase in self funder admissions of up to  
50%, 250 Home Managers across the UK have been fully trained  
in our new sales process. In order to support Home Managers  
in achieving sales targets we recruited experienced sales 
development professionals within each Regional Business Unit.  
In addition, the Group’s website has been updated with improved 
functionality and an enhanced ability to drive sales enquiries. 
2. Segmentation and Cost Management 
During the period we introduced an internal business segmentation 
model in order to help drive performance, simplify management 
communication and inform capital investment decisions.
Each home has been classified within one of five segments 
according to its sales opportunity and cost structure. Each segment 
has distinct operating characteristics and margin potential: 
‘Premium’: •	 capable of over 60% of self funder penetration  
at premium prices.
‘Plus’: •	 capable of over 30% self funder penetration.
‘LA Major’: •	 large, cost efficient homes focused on local  
authority provision.
‘LA Minor’: •	 less efficient homes focused on local  
authority provision.
‘Cosy’: •	 small (less than 35 bed) homes.
In turn, homes are also accorded the following status:
‘Mover’: capable of moving into a more attractive segment. •	
‘Improver’: capable of improvement within the  •	
existing segment.
‘Trend’: operating at an acceptable level within the  •	
existing segment. 
The Group believes that approximately 200 homes can be 
positioned in the ‘premium’ and ‘plus’ segments and that  
over 300 homes have ‘mover’ or ‘improver’ potential. 
In May of this year, each Area Manager used the segmentation 
model in preparing area business plans collaboratively with Home 
Managers. This process has further enabled the development of 
simple, focused plans for each home and improved stewardship.
During the period the Group invested £30.3m in maintaining  
and improving the portfolio, more than meeting its commitment 
from last year. A Director of Property Services was hired to lead  
the investment programme and to ensure that its execution 
optimised returns according to the segmentation methodology. 
Progress has been made in re-engineering the cost base. The 
Group began a comprehensive review of central procurement  
and this work is two thirds complete with approximately £2m  
of annualised savings already captured in telecommunications, 
utility supply and food. A review has also been undertaken in 
repairs, renewals and improvements where the group spends 
approximately £70m per annum (labour and materials). As a result 
I am very pleased to announce the appointment of Bovis Lend 
Lease as our strategic partner for the provision of maintenance 
and refurbishment services across our national network of 752 
homes. We believe the partnership with Bovis Lend Lease will  
lead to improved standards of service to our home management 
teams and therefore our residents, greater operational integrity 
and a more efficient use of the Group’s cash resources. The Group  
is also in the process of reviewing its catering arrangements where it 
spends c£80m per annum (labour and materials) in order to improve 
both the quality and cost effectiveness of this important service.
Industry 
During the period, the increase in fees paid by local authority 
commissioners fell materially below the rate of inflation. In addition, 
older people placed into the Group’s care are increasingly frail  
on admission and have increasingly acute needs, often involving 
dementia, which require higher levels of personal attention by  
our nurses and carers. 
The care industry is largely dependent on state funding through 
either Local Authorities or the National Health Service. It is our  
view that this funding model is not sustainable in the future as  
the proportion of elderly people with acute care needs continues 
to increase. The Group has recognised this in its twin objectives of 
improving standards of care and in attracting a higher proportion 
of self-funding and co-paying residents. That said, the provision  
of services to public commissioners will remain our key market  
for some considerable time and consequently we have actively 
raised our industry profile during the lead in to the Government’s 
Comprehensive Spending Review (CSR).  13 / Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Business Review
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Statement 
(continued)
Our objective in engaging with government was to gain 
recognition of the proper economic and social value of care 
services, such as those delivered by the Group. To that end,  
the Group highlighted:
The value for money provided by residential care versus  •	
the true cost of providing other forms of care, for example  
‘extra care’ and domiciliary care.
Continued inefficient local authority provision and •	
commissioning conflict.
The opportunity for care homes to provide a wider range  •	
of services to the NHS at significantly lower cost.
The outcome of the CSR was disappointing. Local Authorities  
face reductions in their budgets of 26% over the four years 
commencing April 2011 and Social Care is not ring fenced. We remain 
deeply concerned that Local Authorities will reduce expenditure  
on care for older people by increasing eligibility criteria, thereby 
leaving vulnerable people without the access to appropriate forms 
of care, and by depressing fees to increasingly unsustainable levels.
The Group welcomes the setting up of the Dilnot Commission  
into the funding of long term care. This development gives  
the industry in general the opportunity to influence the future 
funding of appropriate elderly care provision in the UK and to 
debate the benefits of different models of care provision with  
a clear understanding of the true costs of each model. We will 
continue to work closely with the Commission which will report  
next summer.
Portfolio
Southern Cross operates 752 homes across the UK. During the period 
the Group added 479 new beds. At the beginning of FY2011, the 
Group took the decision to re-categorise 1,303 rooms, previously 
marketed as twin bedded rooms, for single occupancy at premium 
rates. This will reduce the number of available beds being marketed 
across the Group to 37,300, representing a 10.2% share of the UK 
market for independently provided residential care. (Source: Laing 
& Buisson).
Caring for Older People 
Historically, the Group has operated under two brands, Southern 
Cross Healthcare and Ashbourne. Following the work done on 
internal business segmentation and the classification of homes 
into five segments (Premium, Plus, LA Major, LA Minor, and Cosy) 
the historical classification under Southern Cross and Ashbourne 
has been discontinued.
The Group is currently undertaking a major review of its elderly 
care marketing proposition and branding.
Specialist Services 
Active Care
Active Care is one of the country’s largest independent mental 
health and learning disability care providers, operating 49 homes 
and 930 beds. In the period under review, Active Care generated 
revenue of £41.9m (2009: £43.8m) a decrease of 4.3%, due primarily 
to the closure of Abbeydale. It attracted average weekly fees of 
£1,086 (2009: £1,097).
Name: Clare Macpherson 
Job title: Dining Room Assistant
For people of all ages, a good meal can  
often be the highlight of the day. Clare and  
her colleagues know this and aim to ensure  
that for the residents in their care, meal times 
are something to be looked forward to. Whether 
it’s assisting people in need of a helping hand or 
just making sure that meals are well presented 
and nicely served, our dining room assistants 
play a vital role in the happiness of our homes  
and in the health of all of our residents.
The Group welcomes the  
setting up of the Dilnot 
Commission into the  
funding of long-term care.  14 / Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Business Review
Operating Performance
During the period, the macro-economic climate has materially 
worsened leading directly to a like for like decline in mature 
occupancy of 2.3%. In particular, the Group experienced  
a reduction in Local Authority admissions in the second half  
of the period in contrast to the recovery normally seen over  
the summer months. 
The average Local Authority settlement during the period  
was 1.3% versus RPI of 4.4%. We continued to see restrictions  
on eligibility criteria and movement towards the provision  
of domiciliary care to elderly people with acute social needs.
Overall average weekly fees increased by a net 2.2%, while  
home payroll costs increased by 3.4% (excluding the additional  
4 days in the current period of account) and home running costs 
increased by 5.2%. The results were negatively impacted by falling 
occupancy. Average occupancy in mature homes fell by 2.3%  
to 86.1%, although the market generally also fell. The net effect 
was that operating margin reduced by 1.7% to 29.3%.
The operating performance is summarised below.
    
 H1 H2 Total 
 2010 2010 2010 
 £’m £’m £’m
Revenue 480.7 477.9 958.6 
Home EBITDAR before central costs 140.6 140.3 280.9 
Margin % 29.2% 29.4% 29.3% 
Rent – charge for amounts currently payable 97.7 99.3 197.0 
Rent cover – times 1.44 1.41 1.43 
Adjusted EBITDA 28.0 25.4 53.4 
Adjusted EBITDA profile 52.4% 47.6% 100% 
Average mature occupancy % 86.9% 85.3% 86.1%
Fee Rates
In the period under review, the Group achieved a net increase  
in average weekly fee rates of 2.2% to £558 (2009: £546). Fees 
charged to private clients were reviewed and an overall increase  
of 3.7% was agreed, effective from February 2010. Over the period, 
Local Authority fee rate increases differed from Authority to 
Authority. In England, an average increase of 1.0% was achieved, 
while in Scotland and Northern Ireland the increase was 2% while 
for Wales it was 1.6%, resulting in an overall average increase  
of 1.3%. 
People
As I wrote last year in my first report as Chief Executive,  
I am constantly struck as I go round the business by the 
professionalism, enthusiasm and dedication of colleagues 
throughout the country. Our people – Home Managers, Carers, 
Nurses, Chefs, Housekeepers, Administrators and Maintenance 
Staff – take the lead in fostering relationships with our residents, 
their families and the local community. Along with regional and 
head office staff, they are our route to achieving our ambition  
to deliver the highest levels of care in the UK. They are vital to  
our success. Once again, I am delighted to express my thanks  
to all of them for the contribution they make to the business.
Outlook 
The long term demographics for our business remain positive and 
we are clear that significant opportunities exist for the Group in the 
provision of dementia and end of life services. In addition we are 
developing a range of step down and re-ablement services which 
we believe will be attractive to NHS commissioners.
In the short term however, we will face continued pressure on 
occupancy levels and on margin as a direct consequence of Local 
Authority budget reductions and the lack of current definition  
from central government on long term funding for the care of  
older people.
Despite these challenges, the Group enters 2011 with a very clear 
sense of purpose. In its first year, the achievement of the New 
Horizons Programme has been to lay the foundations for turning 
Southern Cross into a significantly improved national operator of 
care homes. As we enter the second year of the programme we 
now have the management capability to create benefit in the 
following three areas: 
Further improvement in care standards. •	
Capture of a higher margin resident mix. •	
Achievement of further cost efficiencies. •	
To that extent I believe that we are creating a valuable operating 
brand which will stand the company in very good stead for the future.
Jamie Buchan 
Chief Executive
Name: Betty Hannah 
Job title: Domestic Supervisor
More often than not it’s the front line nursing 
staff who steal the limelight in care homes.  
But without the behind-the-scenes work carried 
out by dedicated staff like Betty, every care 
home in the country would very soon grind  
to a halt. We have them to thank for the 
cleanliness and hygiene of residents’ private 
rooms as well as all the public spaces inside  
our homes. And with almost 33,000 residents  
in 752 homes the length and breadth of the 
country, it is impossible to overstate the scale  
of the daily laundry operation needed to keep 
things going smoothly. 
Chief Executive’s Statement 
(continued) Business Review
