 Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
Dear shareholder
As 2014 finished, it brought to a close  
an exceptional year for AstraZeneca.  
We ended it fully focused on the  
delivery of our strategy as an 
independent company. This means 
turning our attractive growth prospects 
and a rapidly progressing pipeline  
into life-changing medicines and  
value for shareholders.
In his Review on the following pages,  
your Chief Executive Officer outlines the 
progress we made during the year in 
delivering our strategic priorities. I would  
like to concentrate on the context in  
which that progress was made and the 
implications for you, our owners.
Clear decisions, responsibly made
When Pfizer approached AstraZeneca 
during 2014, our responsibilities as Directors 
were clear: to act in a way that promoted 
the success of the Company for the benefit 
of its shareholders. In addition to assessing 
the value and deliverability of Pfizer’s 
proposals, we had to have regard  
to the long-term consequences of our 
decisions, the interests of employees, 
relationships with customers, our impact  
on the wider community, including patients, 
and the reputation of the Company. At each 
stage of the process, it was my duty as 
Chairman to ensure we carried out our 
deliberations responsibly, with those duties 
in mind. After extensive review and 
discussions, your Board rejected Pfizer’s 
various proposals. We did so because
 > the proposals fell short of AstraZeneca’s 
value as an independent, science-led 
company
 > AstraZeneca had excellent momentum in 
the delivery of our clearly defined strategy, 
underpinning the Board’s confidence in 
our long-term revenue targets and 
profitability
 > Pfizer’s proposals brought uncertainty 
and risks for AstraZeneca shareholders.
In the wake of that decision, I believe  
we have taken full advantage of the 
opportunity to galvanise employees and 
build on our demonstrable progress as  
an independent company. 
A responsible business
Of course, acting responsibly is not 
restricted to the AstraZeneca boardroom. 
It applies to all our activities. External 
recognition is particularly helpful in providing 
independent validation of our performance. 
I was therefore pleased that we were once 
again listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability 
World Index in 2014. We also retained our 
listing on the European Index for the seventh 
year running.
In the biennial Access to Medicines Index, 
we were disappointed to find ourselves in 
15th position. We remain determined to find 
new ways to improve access to healthcare. 
I am confident that our Healthy Heart Africa 
programme, which aims to improve the lives 
of hypertensive patients across Africa 
through increased education, screening, 
diagnosis and treatment, will make an 
important contribution.
Improved access matters because our 
innovative medicines can make a global 
contribution to better health. They help 
increase survival rates and improve quality 
of life for patients in important areas of 
medical need.
$3.2bn
 
Net cash shareholder distributions 
increased by 9% (Actual growth) to  
$3,242 million (2013: $2,979 million;  
2012: $5,871 million)
4 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Revenue … was in line 
with our upgraded 
guidance and reflected the 
fact that the accelerating 
performance of our 
growth platforms more 
than offset the impact of 
loss of exclusivity.”
Loss of exclusivity
The loss of exclusivity referred to above, and 
its timing, has had, and continues to have, 
an impact on AstraZeneca. Over the coming 
years, this trend will continue as medicines 
such as Nexium and Crestor continue to 
lose exclusivity in key markets, including the 
US and Europe.
Of course, loss of exclusivity is a normal 
part of an innovative medicine’s life-cycle. 
It comes at the end of the period when a 
new medicine is safeguarded from being 
copied so that we can generate returns 
on the investment we have made. A 
well-functioning intellectual property system 
of this type, which rewards innovation, is 
the principal economic safeguard in our 
industry. It is why we commit significant 
resources to establishing and defending 
our patent protections. 
The challenging environment 
continues
More generally, we continue to face 
challenging market conditions. While the 
world pharmaceutical market is growing 
and underlying demographic trends remain 
favourable to long-term growth, many of the 
drivers of demand and supply in the sector 
are under pressure.
On the demand side, we face increased 
competition from generic drugs as some 
of the world’s most successful medicines 
come off patent. In addition, securing an 
appropriate level of reward for our medicines 
is becoming more difficult in the face of 
intense pricing pressures, particularly in 
Financial performance in 2014
Revenue was up 3% to $26,095 million, 
which was in line with our upgraded 
guidance. On an actual basis, revenue  
was up 1% as a result of the negative 
impact of exchange rate movements.  
Core operating profit in 2014 was down 
13% to $6,937 million while Core EPS  
were $4.28, down 8%.
Our performance reflected the delayed 
launch of generic Nexium (esomeprazole)  
in the US as well as the accelerating 
performance of our growth platforms, which 
now contribute over half of our revenues. 
Taken together, they more than offset the 
impact of loss of exclusivity. Our strong 
performance in Emerging Markets was a 
particular highlight, with China becoming 
our second largest market.
Established Markets facing rising healthcare 
costs. On the supply side, the industry faces 
an ongoing R&D productivity challenge. 
Costs have risen significantly and, while in 
2014 the FDA approved the highest number 
of new medicines for 18 years, there is still 
some way to go in improving the probability 
of success of our projects.
Return to shareholders
Consistent with our progressive dividend 
policy to maintain or grow the dividend 
each year, the Board has recommended 
a second interim dividend of $1.90 per 
Ordinary Share. This brings the dividend for 
the full year to $2.80 per Ordinary Share.
The Board regularly reviews its distribution 
policy and its overall financial strategy to 
strike a balance between the interests 
of the business, financial creditors and 
shareholders. We continue to target a 
strong, investment grade credit rating. 
Outlook
As we look to the future, we expect sales 
revenue to decline by mid single-digit 
percent at CER in 2015. Consistent with  
our business model, we will continue to 
seek externalisation revenue from 
collaborations and licensing select products 
and technologies. Core EPS is expected  
to increase by low single-digit percent at 
CER. This expectation involves a number of 
assumptions, including the imminent launch 
of a Nexium generic in the US market.
Appreciation
Before closing, and on behalf of the  
Board, I want to thank the employees  
of AstraZeneca. Their outstanding efforts 
helped us achieve so much in 2014  
towards leading in science and returning to 
growth. In particular, I want to express my 
appreciation to Pascal and all the members 
of the Senior Executive Team for showing 
such inspirational leadership throughout  
a challenging year.
Finally, I would like to thank all my fellow 
Directors for the quality of their contributions 
and conscientiousness they brought to our 
discussions throughout an exceptionally 
busy 2014.
Leif Johansson 
Chairman
Distributions to shareholders $m 
2014 2013 2012
Dividends 3,521 3,461 3,665
Proceeds from issue of shares (279) (482) (429)
Share repurchases
1
– – 2,635
Total 3,242 2,979 5,871
Dividend per Ordinary Share $ 
2014 2013 2012
Dividend per Ordinary Share 2.80 2.80 2.80
Dividend for 2014
$ Pence SEK Payment date
First interim dividend 0.90 53.1 6.20 15 September 2014
Second interim dividend 1.90 125.0 15.62 23 March 2015
Total 2.80 178.1 21.82
1
 The share repurchase programme was suspended effective 1 October 2012.
5 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014
Strategic Report
