 Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Respiratory, Inflammation and 
Autoimmunity
The American College of Rheumatology 
annual meeting in Boston, MA  
accepted more than 15 abstracts of 
AstraZeneca work.
We are making significant progress in the 
RIA therapy area. Eight projects are in 
Phase III or registration. In particular, we are 
leveraging biologics in severe asthma and 
COPD, and developing several promising 
assets in inflammation and autoimmune 
disease areas. These include dermatology, 
gout, systemic lupus and rheumatoid 
arthritis. In November, we strengthened our 
own capabilities by acquiring the rights to 
Almirall’s respiratory business, and inhalation 
device subsidiary, which will help us develop 
the next generation of devices that meet 
patient needs. We further strengthened our 
respiratory portfolio through our agreement 
– announced in February 2015 – to acquire 
the rights to Actavis’s branded respiratory 
business in the US and Canada.*
Phase III studies began in 2014 for 
tralokinumab for the treatment of severe, 
inadequately controlled asthma. 
Furthermore, we decided to progress 
benralizumab to Phase III in COPD based 
on the finding that patients with elevated 
eosinophils seem to benefit from the drug.
Highlighting the potential of our inflammation 
and autoimmunity biologics portfolio, two 
Phase IIb studies for mavrilimumab and 
sifalimumab both met their primary 
endpoints. Results from Phase III trials for 
brodalumab also met all primary endpoints 
treatment of women with BRCA-mutated 
(BRCAm) ovarian cancer who have had  
very limited treatment options to date.  
The story of Lynparza shows what 
AstraZeneca can achieve by following  
the science. Less than three years ago, 
Lynparza development was discontinued 
following Phase II study results. These 
indicated that the progression-free survival 
(PFS) benefit seen in the overall ovarian 
cancer population was unlikely to translate 
into an overall survival benefit. Attempts to 
identify a suitable dose of the new tablet 
formulation also proved challenging. 
Our teams were undeterred. They saw  
an opportunity to explore why the data 
showed better efficacy in patients with 
BRCAm ovarian cancer and sought to 
re-analyse the Phase II data. This included 
obtaining the BRCAm status for almost  
all patients – itself a great achievement. 
Looking at the data again made it clear that 
the team was right – Lynparza significantly 
prolonged PFS compared with placebo in 
patients with BRCAm ovarian cancer. In 
parallel, the team also identified a suitable 
dose and tablet formulation.
This really does exemplify our values in 
action and demonstrates our determination 
to push the boundaries of science to deliver 
life-changing medicines. We continue to 
explore the potential of this exciting new 
medicine, and additional late-stage clinical 
studies are underway to explore Lynparza’s 
benefit for a variety of other cancers.
AstraZeneca has completed the first phase 
in its strategic journey. We have rebuilt 
strong foundations for sustainable delivery 
and are on track to return to growth by 2017 . 
Fuelled by an exciting portfolio, oncology 
has become AstraZeneca’s sixth growth 
platform and will deliver life-changing 
medicines to patients and long-term growth. 
Achieve scientific leadership
The changes we have made in the last  
two years have transformed AstraZeneca’s 
pipeline and accelerated clinical 
programmes. For example, we have already 
achieved our 2016 target for the number of 
potential medicines in Phase III – three years 
ahead of schedule. The changes have also 
helped towards our goal of achieving 
scientific leadership in our three main 
therapy areas: Respiratory, Inflammation 
and Autoimmunity (RIA); Cardiovascular and 
Metabolic diseases (CVMD); and Oncology.
We achieved a record 12 approvals in 2014 
and, while we must expect occasional 
setbacks, such as the discontinuation of  
a few early-stage projects, we have every 
reason to be confident in our pipeline. In 
addition to launching new medicines, such 
as Lynparza and Movantik/Moventig, by the 
end of 2016, we anticipate
 > 12 to 16 Phase II starts
 > 14 to 16 NME and major line extension 
regulatory submissions
 > 8 to 10 NME and major line extension 
approvals.
A highlight of the year came in December 
when Lynparza was approved in the US  
and EU as the first PARP inhibitor for the 
Dear shareholder
2014 was a remarkable year that shows 
what AstraZeneca can achieve by 
following the science.
We strengthened and accelerated our 
pipeline, and increased the momentum 
behind our growth platforms. Our efforts 
are creating significant value for patients 
and shareholders.
*   Transaction subject to competition law clearances as well as 
other customary terms and conditions.
6 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 for the treatment of moderate to severe 
psoriasis, with two of these trials showing 
superior efficacy compared to the current 
standard of care. Following top-line results 
from the Phase III programme for lesinurad 
in combination with xanthine oxidase 
inhibitors in gout patients, our regulatory 
filing in the EU has been accepted.
Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases
The 74th Scientific Sessions of the 
American Diabetes Association in San 
Francisco, CA accepted for presentation 
43 abstracts reporting results of our R&D 
in diabetes. The Annual Meeting of the 
European Association for the Study of 
Diabetes in Vienna, Austria accepted 29 
abstracts for presentation. 
A record total of six major market approvals 
in 2014 for medicines that treat Type 2 
diabetes further demonstrates how we are 
achieving scientific leadership. We also had 
positive results from a Phase III study of 
saxagliptin/dapagliflozin combination in 
patients with Type 2 diabetes and are 
progressing a regulatory filing in the US.
The acquisition in February 2014 of BMS’s 
share of the diabetes alliance was a 
significant event for AstraZeneca and we 
now have one of the broadest non-insulin 
anti-diabetic portfolios in the industry. Our 
diabetes strategy is to shift the treatment 
paradigm towards early use of combination 
therapies, help accelerate the achievement 
of patients’ treatment goals and potentially 
delay disease progression.
2014 was a strong year for our growth 
platform, Brilinta/Brilique, both in terms of 
revenue growth and news flow. The US 
Strategic priorities overview
Achieve scientific leadership
 > 12 approvals of NMEs or major LCM projects in major markets 
 − CVMD: Bydureon Pen (US and EU), Farxiga/Forxiga (US and Japan), Xigduo 
XR (US) and Xigduo (EU) for Type 2 diabetes; Myalept (US) for generalised 
lipodystrophy; Epanova (US) for dyslipidaemia
 − Oncology: Lynparza (US and EU) for BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer 
 − Neuroscience: Movantik/Moventig (US and EU) for opioid-induced  
constipation
 > 1 1 Phase III starts, including 5 NMEs: MEDI4736 and AZD9291 for non-small  
cell lung cancer; tremelimumab for mesothelioma; roxadustat for chronic kidney 
disease and end-stage renal disease; and tralokinumab for severe asthma 
 > 6 NME or major LCM regulatory submissions in major markets
 − CVMD: Bydureon Pen (Japan) and saxagliptin/dapagliflozin FDC (US)
 − Oncology: Iressa (US) and Lynparza (US)
 − Inflammation: lesinurad (US and EU)
 > 9 projects discontinued
 > 3 acquisitions: the rights to Almirall’s respiratory franchise and inhalation  
device subsidiary; Definiens; and completion of the acquisition of BMS’s share  
of the diabetes alliance
Return to growth
 > 3% increase in revenue to $26,095 million
 − Accelerating performance of growth platforms more than offset impact  
of loss of exclusivity
 > 15% increase in growth platforms revenue contributing 53% of total revenue
 − Brilinta/Brilique +70%; continued global progress
 − Diabetes + 139%; successful Farxiga/Forxiga launch and good uptake  
of Bydureon Pen in the US
 − Respiratory + 10%; Emerging Markets growth of 27% and decelerating  
US growth of 15%
 − Emerging Markets + 12% to $5,827 million
 − Japan revenue -3%; due to mandated biennial price cuts, increased use  
of generics and Nexium recall in the fourth quarter
 > US revenue was up 4% to $10,120 million, with Europe down 1% at 
$6,638 million; Established ROW revenue was down 4% to $3,510 million 
 > 22% growth in China, making it our second largest market
Great place to work
 > Our 2014 employee survey showed understanding of our strategy up by  
14 percentage points, to 88%, compared with the previous survey in 2012 –  
4 points above the global high performing company norm. Belief in  
our direction rose by 18 points, to 86%
 > Following transactions, some 4, 100 BMS and Almirall employees were 
integrated into AstraZeneca
 > Simplified organisation with 75% of employees now within six management 
steps of the CEO (40% in 2012)
Do business responsibly
 > AstraZeneca launched the Healthy Heart Africa programme to address 
hypertension in Africa for some of the poorest people in the community
…our business shape  
is changing to become 
more sustainable, durable 
and profitable.”
7 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014
Strategic Report Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
Focus on…personalised 
healthcare
By developing diagnostic-led, targeted 
therapies, personalised healthcare 
improves our ability to identify patients 
most likely to benefit from our 
medicines. In 2014, we entered into 
collaborations with diagnostic and 
biomarker companies, including 
Illumina Inc., Qiagen and Roche,  
to support the development of 
companion diagnostics for our 
investigational oncology medicines. 
We also acquired Definiens, a pioneer 
of a technology that improves the 
identification of biomarkers in tumour 
tissue. Through these transactions, 
we hope to reduce clinical trial time 
and cost, and improve response rates 
and the delivery of the right medicines 
to the right patients.
investigational non-small cell lung  
cancer (NSCLC) compound, AZD9291. 
AZD9291 is a highly selective, irreversible 
inhibitor of both the activating sensitising 
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) 
mutation and the resistance mutation 
T790M. The FDA has granted it 
breakthrough therapy designation as  
well as orphan drug and fast track status.  
This will allow us to speed the medicine’s 
development and we are planning to file  
for approval in the US in the second  
quarter of 2015. At just over two years  
after the compound entered clinical  
testing, this would represent a tremendous 
achievement.
In a development that enhances its value to 
patients and demonstrates our commitment 
to personalised healthcare, Iressa now 
includes blood-based diagnostic testing in 
its European label for patients unable to 
provide a suitable tumour sample. In the US, 
the FDA has accepted a filing for Iressa as  
a targeted monotherapy for the 1st line 
treatment of patients with advanced or 
metastatic EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC.
Immuno-oncology has the potential to 
transform the way cancer patients are 
treated by harnessing the body’s own 
immune system. Our broad portfolio 
includes almost 30 combination trials, either 
underway or planned. In a crowded field,  
we are particularly well positioned to explore 
synergistic combinations of immunotherapies, 
both with each other and with our own 
highly targeted small molecules. In 2014,  
we initiated a Phase III immunotherapy study 
for MEDI4736 in patients with NSCLC. 
Collaborations, such as those made in 2014 
with Incyte, Advaxis, Kyowa Hakko Kirin, 
Department of Justice’s closure of its 
investigation into the PLATO clinical trial  
in August reaffirmed our confidence in 
Brilinta/Brilique and the PLATO trial. In 
September, new data indicated that the 
profile of Brilinta/Brilique was comparable 
whether administered pre-hospital or 
in-hospital in ST segment elevation 
myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients.  
Most recently, in January 2015, we 
announced that the PEGASUS-TIMI 54 
study, a large-scale outcomes trial involving 
over 21,000 patients, had met its primary 
endpoint in both 60mg and 90mg doses. 
The study demonstrated that, when taken  
in combination with aspirin, Brilinta/Brilique 
reduced more major cardiovascular 
thrombotic events in patients with a history 
of heart attack than using aspirin alone.
Oncology
We presented over 40 scientific abstracts 
related to our investigational medicines to 
the American Society of Clinical Oncology 
meeting in Chicago, IL and the European 
Society of Medical Oncology 2014 
Congress in Madrid, Spain. 
AstraZeneca has a deep-rooted heritage  
in oncology. Our vision is to help patients  
by redefining the cancer treatment 
paradigm. Our broad pipeline of next-
generation medicines is focused on four 
main disease areas: breast, ovarian, lung 
and haematological cancers. For these, we  
are targeting immunotherapy; the genetic 
drivers of cancer and resistance; DNA 
damage repair; and antibody-drug 
conjugates (ADCs).
The potential of our oncology pipeline is 
highlighted by our small molecule, 
 Research and Development from  
page 52
Focus on…our pipeline
At 31 December 2014, our pipeline 
comprised 133 projects, including 1 18 in 
clinical development and 16 approved or 
launched. Our late-stage pipeline has 
transformed faster than we anticipated, with 
13 NMEs in Phase III/pivotal Phase II, or 
under regulatory review compared with the 
original target of eight set in March 2013. 
Our early-stage pipeline has also grown 
rapidly through a sharp focus on novel 
science and technologies, providing a 
sustainable discovery engine behind our 
main therapy areas.
 Therapy Area Review from page 32
Development projects 
1
  Includes eight projects that are either approved or launched in at least one market. Includes one project that is filed in at least one market.
2
  Includes eight projects that are either approved or launched in at least one market. Includes one project that is filed in at least one market.
3
  Included four projects that were either approved or launched in at least one market. Included four projects that were filed in at least one market.
4
  Included five projects that were either approved or launched in at least one market. Included one project that was filed in at least one market.
5
  Included five projects that were either approved or launched in at least one market.
6
 Included eight projects that were filed, approved or launched in at least one market. 
7
  Phase III/pivotal Phase II, or under regulatory review.
2014
2013
2012
40
33
29 24
35 32
1
26
2
27
7
5
23
6
19
3
20
4
  P h a s e I  Phase II  Late-stage 
development
7
 LCM projects
8 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Pharmacyclics and Janssen are accelerating 
our own R&D efforts. The acquisition of 
Definiens further strengthened our 
immuno-oncology capabilities, as described 
in the panel on the left. 
Return to growth
The steps we took to achieve scientific 
leadership in 2014 were complemented by 
our progress towards returning to growth. 
We are doing this through maximising the 
potential of our existing medicines, 
leveraging our global scale and investing in 
our growth platforms and key geographies.
Our commercial expertise and global scale, 
including a strong presence in Emerging 
Markets, helped maximise the value of our 
marketed brands in our main therapy areas, 
which delivered over two-thirds of total 
revenues in 2014.
Our five growth platforms – Brilinta/Brilique, 
diabetes, respiratory, Emerging Markets and 
Japan – are sustaining near-term growth  
as we progress towards our long-term 
ambitions. These platforms accounted for 
more than half our revenues in 2014. We will 
continue to focus on driving growth in these 
areas, with the addition of oncology as a 
growth platform in 2015 as we navigate a 
period that will see some of our established 
products losing their exclusivity.
As already indicated, targeted business 
development reinforces our main therapy 
areas. A focus on early-stage academic  
and biotech alliances supports our 
long-term pipeline aspirations. At the same 
time, strategic transactions, such as those 
with BMS and Almirall, support the 
late-stage and marketed portfolio.
In parallel with the pipeline transformation, 
and leveraging our global scale and 
commercial expertise, our business shape 
is changing to become more sustainable, 
durable and profitable. Biologics now 
account for nearly half our pipeline.  
This increases the probability of success  
of our projects and potentially enhances  
the longevity of our assets. A greater focus 
on innovative delivery devices can offer 
choice to patients while also ensuring  
the durability of our products. Overall,  
we believe the growing proportion of 
specialty care products in our portfolio  
will boost profitability.
Great place to work
We continue to drive our cultural 
transformation and operational simplification 
to support our strategic goals. Our efforts to 
nurture an enhanced culture of innovation 
and enterprise are having a positive impact 
across the organisation. Results from our 
2014 employee survey reflect the progress 
we have made. Employee understanding  
of our strategy was up 14 percentage points 
to 88% over the 2012 survey, and belief in 
our direction was up 18 points to 86%. A 
simpler management structure is helping 
sharpen our focus and remove barriers, 
further accelerating decision making and 
increasing productivity.
Our activities in Cambridge, shown on the 
right, highlight the benefit of co-locating our 
R&D around three strategic bioscience 
clusters in the US, Sweden and the UK. 
These moves are making it easier for our 
researchers to collaborate with external 
partners – and with each other – to leverage 
our small and large molecule capabilities, 
and our innovative technology to maintain 
the pace of pipeline development.
Appreciation
The year 2014 was remarkable for 
AstraZeneca. A period that might easily 
have distracted us with external events 
instead proved to be a time that 
strengthened the case for our future as an 
independent company. All of this was due  
to the achievements of our employees, 
partners and collaborators. I would like to 
pay tribute to every one of them. In doing 
so, I would particularly like to welcome all 
those who have joined AstraZeneca and 
share our passion for working in a company 
that follows the science. That welcome 
includes Fiona Cicconi and Luke Miels, who 
both joined in 2014 and became members 
of the Senior Executive Team.
All of us should be proud of what 
AstraZeneca achieved in 2014. Together,  
we can be confident that, by leading in 
science, we will transform the lives of 
patients around the world. In doing so,  
we will return to growth and deliver value  
to our shareholders.
Pascal Soriot 
Chief Executive Officer
Focus on…value creation
To ensure the full potential of our 
science-led strategy is realised, our 
business model is evolving to include 
value creation through collaboration, 
out-licensing and divestments. In 2014, 
we established an alliance with Lilly to 
co-develop and commercialise our 
BACE inhibitor, AZD3293, for 
Alzheimer’s disease. As part of the 
European Commission’s Innovative 
Medicines Initiative, we also secured 
partial funding for MEDI4893, a 
potential infection medicine. In January 
2015, we completed the divestment of 
the rare-disease drug Myalept to 
Aegerion. This provides another 
example of additional value creation.
 Business model from page 10
Focus on…Cambridge
In 2014, we shared proposed  
designs for our Global R&D Centre 
and Corporate Headquarters in 
Cambridge, UK as part of our plan to 
increase our proximity to world-class 
bioscience clusters. We also 
strengthened our partnership with  
the University of Cambridge with four 
new collaborations and announced a 
collaboration with Cancer Research 
UK to establish a joint laboratory in the 
city focused on novel, biologic cancer 
treatments. Of two collaborations with 
the UK Medical Research Council,  
one will create a joint facility for early 
drug discovery in our new R&D 
Centre, and the second will fund 
projects aimed at better understanding 
the biology of disease.
 Research and Development from  
page 52; Employees from page 62
9 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014
Strategic Report
