 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2005   9
The following paragraphs describe the operational performance
of the group’s business segments.
Sector performance
Electronic controls achieved sales growth of 3% from 
£139.7 million in 2004 to £143.5 million, with profit up 6%
from £17.2 million to £18.2 million. Operating margins
improved from 12.3% to 12.7%. Microscan launched two new
bar code readers during the year which made a positive
contribution to a good growth performance. Red Lion Controls
enjoyed particular success, with human/machine interface
products increasing sales in the US by more than 40% compared
with the prior year. At HBM, sales in the second half were
attenuated both by a lack of large projects and the elimination
of some low margin business, largely for Chinese customers,
however profitability improved. A conditional agreement for
the disposal of Arcom was signed in February 2006 for a total
consideration of US$26 million. This business is being divested
as it is not core to Spectris’ strategy and will have greater
opportunities as part of a specialist embedded computer
technology company.
In-line instrumentation achieved sales growth of 2% from
£198.4 million to £202.3 million with profit growing by 11%
from £20.6 million to £22.9 million. Operating margins
improved from 10.4% to 11.3%. Sales of BTG’s Duroblade
product recovered in the second half with the ending of the
lock-out at paper mills in Finland. However, delayed capital
spending by paper manufacturers in the light of increases in
energy and transport costs, caused sales at the instrumentation
side of BTG’s business to be subdued. Servomex reported
record sales and operating profits, with strong demand in the
second half for gas analysis systems on the back of increased
spending by companies in the hydrocarbon industries.
Operating profits were up at Brüel & Kjær Vibro on
relatively flat sales due primarily to an improved product mix.
Electronic controls
Sales
£m
Profit
£m
04
139.7
143.5
05 04 05
17.2
18.2
04
198.4
202.3
05 04 05
20.6
22.9
Sales
£m
Profit
£m
In-line instrumentation
04
276.0
 310.1
05 04 05
26.8
32.4
Sales
£m
Profit
£m
Process technology
“Our priority going forward is to continue to pursue the
strategy of managing cost, pricing and overheads tightly.
Actions such as transferring component sourcing,
manufacturing and assembly to lower-cost regions,
productivity and process improvements, and a maintained
focus on cash generation, reinforce our ability to deliver
improved profitability and operating margins. ”
Chairman’s and Chief Executive’s review 
SPECTRIS 01-17  5/4/06  4:26 pm  Page 9 Outlook
Levels of demand in the first two months of the year provide
encouragement that the company will show further good
progress in 2006. Spectris has a strong business portfolio, with
market-leading brands and good technology positions, exposure
to a number of attractive end-user industries, and high calibre
people. Continued focus on the emerging markets of Asia
Pacific, Eastern Europe and Latin America, together with
growing emphasis by customers on the value of after-sales
service, present good opportunities for the company. Several 
of our operations are well positioned to take advantage of
increasing investment in petrochemical, mining and metals
industries as a consequence of high oil and commodity demand.
Our priority going forward is to continue to pursue the
strategy of managing cost, pricing and overheads tightly.
Actions such as transferring component sourcing,
manufacturing and assembly to lower-cost regions,
productivity and process improvements, and a maintained
focus on cash generation, reinforce our ability to deliver
improved profitability and operating margins. In addition we
will continue to drive organic sales growth and to strengthen
our portfolio of businesses by considering external
opportunities for growth where appropriate.
John Poulter John O’Higgins
Chairman Chief Executive
10 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2005
Chairman’s and Chief Executive’s review continued
The company is expected to benefit as oil refiners invest in
new capacity, with increased demand for safety and condition
monitoring systems. At Ircon trading margins and profits
moved ahead. NDC made good progress, particularly with the
sales of sensors for measuring equipment, with strong growth
in Asia. Although the Chinese plastics market suffered from
the high oil price and overcapacity, greater penetration of
other industries, such as non-wovens, compensated. Beta
LaserMike made good progress with its restructuring and
returned to trading profitability in the year. The restructuring
at Loma and Cintex returned the business to profitability in
the second half, as management focused on product margins
and the benefits of the move to a manufacturing unit in the
Czech Republic were realised. The company has been renamed
Spectrum Inspection Systems.
Process technology achieved sales growth of 12% from 
£276.0 million to £310.1 million with profit growing by 21%
from £26.8 million to £32.4 million. Operating margins
improved from 9.7% to 10.4%. In a year in which
semiconductor equipment investment was flat, Particle
Measuring Systems did well, primarily due to market share
gains in the flat panel display, optical display and
pharmaceutical industries. Continued investment by the
automotive and electronics industries in Japan benefited
Fusion UV Systems, particularly in flat panel displays, where
demand for UV-coated functionalised film products is strong,
with Asia expected to satisfy around 90% of world demand.
Malvern produced a good performance both from the
laboratory business, where nanomaterial and biotechnology
research markets are attractive, and in the process business
globally. Malvern’s newly-opened applications laboratory in
China underpinned a strong Asian performance.
Sales at Brüel & Kjær Sound & Vibration increased.
The company won strategic environmental contracts in China
for both Beijing city and airport, giving Brüel & Kjær a strong
position in the growing Chinese environmental noise
management market. Underlying profits increased but were
impacted by a one-off cost for centralising back-office
functions. PANalytical enjoyed double-digit growth in both
sales and operating profit, with particular success in Asia.
The European directives on restricting hazardous substances
and waste electrical and electronic equipment have already
been beneficial. The measurement of traces of heavy metals 
in foods and asbestos in waste presents good opportunities.
PANalytical also entered into an agreement with Lafarge,
making it the preferred supplier of X-ray analysis systems for
the entire cement division, comprising 150 plants worldwide.
SPECTRIS 01-17  3/4/06  8:56 pm  Page 10
