 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 3
Spectris delivered a strong performance in 2007, with sales,
profits, operating margins and cash flow from continuing
businesses all improving compared with the prior year.
At constant currencies, sales increased by 6.5%, including 
1% from acquisitions, and operating profit increased by 35%.
The major geographic regions again showed growth during
2007. The strongest growth was seen in Asia, where sales
increased by 7% at constant currencies, led by China. Sales in
Europe increased by over 3% at constant currencies. Sales in
North America increased by 6%, helped by the acquisition of
the IPI business acquired in 2006. Sales in the rest of the world
increased by 32%, reflecting the growing importance of
industrialising markets such as Russia, South America and Africa.
Operating margins improved to 15.8% (2006: 12.9%), as the
restructuring and other business improvement actions taken in
prior years continued to deliver results.
Strategy
Our objective is to deliver shareholder value over the long term
by supplying productivity-enhancing solutions for our
customers. Our strategy is based on five elements: strengthening
market positions through innovation; increasing regional
expansion with the focus on emerging markets; growing existing
businesses through acquisition; focusing on operational
excellence; building our presence in key strategic growth areas.
In order to give better clarity to our operations, we have 
re-aligned the activities of our business segments to reflect 
more closely the applications and end user industries we serve.
Going forward, our businesses will be reported in four segments.
These are: Materials Analysis, T est and Measurement, In-line
Instrumentation and Industrial Controls. Figures for prior 
years have been restated accordingly. Figures at group level
and key performance indicators are not affected by these
changes. For comparative purposes, the key results for 
the group based upon the prior segmentation are shown 
in Note 3. The segments are described in detail in the 
Business review.
Two acquisitions were made during the second half of
the year. On 2 July, Particle Measuring Systems acquired the
distribution activities of Quest T echnologies in Singapore, giving
it an increased presence in Asia. On 1 November, Servomex
acquired Contrôle Analytique, a leading provider of specialist 
gas analysis products based in Canada. The acquisition enables
Servomex to increase its product offering in the global industrial
gas market and also provides opportunities for the company 
to meet the needs of customers in the semiconductor market.
Research and development expenditure increased to
£45.2 million, which represents 7% of group sales, enabling the
businesses to maintain their leading market positions and
continue to meet the productivity challenges their customers face.
Looking ahead
Over the longer term we are well positioned, both in terms 
of geographic exposure and end user markets. We have a 
clearly defined strategy which will deliver both top-line and
bottom-line performance.
John O’Higgins 
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s statement
“Over the longer term we are well
positioned, both in terms of geographic
exposure and end user markets”
