 04
Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Chief Executive’s Statement
“ We are pleased with the strategic and 
operational progress we made in 2008.  
We have grown sales and profits and  
have made good progress on delivering  
against our strategy.”
John O’Higgins, Chief Executive
Introduction
Spectris delivered a good performance in 2008, with sales and 
profits from continuing businesses improving compared with  
the prior year. At constant currencies, sales increased by 7% and 
operating profit increased by 2%. Sales growth in the second  
half of the year was slower than in the first half as tougher 
economic conditions led to demand reducing in some of our 
markets. However, this weakening was offset to some extent  
by the contribution from acquisitions made in the year and  
by continuing good demand in markets such as energy and 
pharmaceuticals.
Strategy
We continued to deliver against our strategy:
Strengthening market positions through innovation •	
 Increasing regional expansion with a focus on  •	
emerging markets
Growing existing businesses through acquisition •	
Focusing on operational excellence •	
 Building our presence in key strategic growth areas,  •	
both organically and through acquisition.
Strengthening market positions through innovation
In late 2007, we took the decision to make strategic growth 
investments in research and development and during 2008 we 
increased expenditure on R&D by over £12 million to £57 million, 
or 7.2% of sales (2007: 6.8%). The increased investment was 
targeted primarily at speeding up time to market for selective 
product development programmes, particularly in the Materials 
Analysis segment. Examples of the new products and applications 
launched during the year are described in the Operating Review 
which follows. 
Increasing regional expansion with a focus on emerging 
markets
Total group sales at constant currencies increased in all major 
regions. Sales in Asia grew by 8%, with China continuing to see 
good growth of 14%, however, sales in Japan declined by 7% due  
to a slowdown in the electronics, automotive and semiconductor 
industries. Sales in North America increased by 8%. In Europe, 
sales increased by 3%, with Germany up 10%. Sales in industrialising 
markets such as Latin America, Russia, the Middle East and Africa 
increased by 24%, reflecting the continuing growth in these regions. 
Asia and the other industrialising countries now comprise 35% of 
total group sales.
We continued to invest in initiatives to expand our direct sales 
presence in key markets. In January 2008, HBM acquired its 
distributors in the Nordic countries. In May, PANalytical and 
Malvern Instruments opened a new joint headquarters in North 
America, extending their applications laboratories and training 
facilities. In August, Particle Measuring Systems acquired its 
distributor in China, increasing its direct sales presence in the key 
market of electronics in Asia. Service and consumables account for 
around 24% of sales, reflecting the importance of the aftermarket 
business, particularly as customers look to outsource this area of 
their business in order to reduce their own costs.  05
Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Overview
Growing existing businesses through acquisition
During the year, we invested a total of £88.8 million in acquisitions 
to strengthen our existing businesses. In addition to the 
distributors described above, we acquired Viscotek Corporation,  
a leading provider of chromatography solutions, during the first 
quarter. During the third quarter, we acquired nCode, a leading 
supplier of durability test and analysis software and data 
acquisition instruments, and the Siemens Machine Vision 
Business, an industry leader in automatic identification and  
data capture. In December, the acquisition of LDS Test and 
Measurement was completed. LDS is a leading provider of data 
acquisition and instrumentation products and vibration test 
systems and is an excellent fit with the existing businesses in the 
Test and Measurement segment. Since the year end, we have 
completed a further acquisition for the Test and Measurement 
segment to strengthen our position in the global noise 
management market. The companies acquired and their strategic 
fit to our businesses are described in more detail in the Operating 
Review which follows. 
Focusing on operational excellence
The emphasis on operational excellence continued. Our focus on 
improving purchasing efficiency resulted in growth of 22% in the 
volume of components purchased in Asia and Eastern Europe.  
Our gas analysis business completed the relocation of its system 
build activities to Shanghai, China, in order to be closer to its key 
customers in Asia and develop a more competitive cost base in this 
region. Many of our operating companies are investing in lean 
manufacturing initiatives aimed at increasing quality, reducing 
inventories and improving supply chain efficiencies.
Conclusion
In summary, we are pleased with the strategic and operational 
progress we made in 2008. We have grown sales and profits and 
have made good progress on delivering against our strategy, as 
evidenced by the increased investment in both acquisitions  
and research and development to accelerate our new product 
development programmes, which lay the foundations for future 
growth. The current market conditions continue to be challenging 
and offer very limited visibility. We consider that the actions we  
are taking to reduce operating costs are appropriate in the near 
term whilst retaining in our businesses the resources to support 
growth as market demand recovers.
John O’Higgins
Chief Executive
£57m
Expenditure on R&D
35%
Of group sales are to Asia and other 
expanding regions
24%
Of group sales are from service and 
consumables
LDS Test and Measurement
In December, we completed the acquisition of the LDS Test 
and Measurement business. LDS is a market leader in vibration 
testing equipment for applications in the aerospace, defence, 
automotive, machinery, electrical and electronics markets.  
The business is an excellent fit with our Test and Measurement 
segment, adding capability in complete excitation systems and 
enabling customers to purchase the complete test system for 
both structural analysis and vibration testing from a single 
source to enhance productivity in their research and 
development cycles. 
