 12 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s Review   
John O’Higgins
Chief Executive
£62.4m
Expenditure on R&D up 7%
26%
Increase in sales to Asia Pacific
Growth returned during 2010 and all business segments saw higher sales than in 2009. 
Overall, sales growth was strongest in the In-line Instrumentation and Industrial Controls 
segments as the general economic recovery resulted in production levels and customer 
expenditure returning to more usual rates. The Test and Measurement segment saw a 
strong recovery in the second half of the year, as the number of automotive customer 
projects increased, and the Materials Analysis segment also grew strongly in the  
second half.
Strategy
We made significant progress on all elements of our strategy during the year, as set  
out below.
Strengthening market positions through innovation
Expenditure on research and development grew by 7% to £62.4 million (7% of sales). 
Following the sustained investment during the downturn of 2009, we launched a range 
of new products, technologies and applications during the year across the group. One of 
the most exciting of these was Empyrean, our new X-ray diffraction platform for materials 
research. Empyrean is unique in its ability to measure all sample types, from powders to 
thin films, nanomaterials and 3D objects, on a single instrument. We also launched a new 
version of the Morphologi automated image analysis system, the G3ID, developed as 
part of our collaboration with Kaiser Optical Systems. This product, which adds chemical 
identification to the existing size and shape analysis in one system for the first time, 
enables customers in the pharmaceutical industry to distinguish between materials  
that appear identical in traditional particle sizing systems and has been well received 
in the industry.
Increasing regional expansion with a focus on emerging markets
Asia Pacific continued to see strong growth, with group sales up by 26% on a reported 
basis. This remains our second-largest regional market, and is now just 4pp behind 
Europe, compared with 12pp in 2009. Two of the acquisitions made in the year are 
based in Asia and, together with N-Tron and Delta F, increase our presence in the 
region. We have also increased the number of staff employed in sales, marketing and 
support functions in our existing businesses in China by 25% (increase of 46% including 
acquisitions), bringing the total number of people employed in China to around 1,000. 
We continued to invest in infrastructure and service channels globally, opening new 
customer business centres in São Paulo, Brazil, and Mumbai, India. 
Growing existing businesses through acquisition
During the year, we made five bolt-on acquisitions for a total consideration of 
£63.0 million. The total annualised pro-forma revenues of the businesses acquired would 
have been approximately £36 million. In April, we acquired the assets of Reologica 
Instruments AB, a Swedish company specialising in the design and manufacture of 
rheometers. In July, we acquired Zhuhai Omec Instruments Co Ltd, a Chinese company 
specialising in particle characterisation, which has extended our product range in the 
Materials Analysis segment. In October, we acquired the industrial business of Sysmex, 
a Japanese company. This has increased our product offering in the industrial particle 
characterisation area and enables us to provide technical and applications support 
from laboratories and offices in Kobe and Tokyo. These three acquisitions form part of 
the Materials Analysis segment. In October, we acquired the business of N-Tron Corp, 
a leading US-based manufacturer of rugged industrial networking components. This 
business has been incorporated into the Industrial Controls segment. Finally, in November, 
we acquired Delta F Corporation, a manufacturer of process analyser technologies 
based in the US. Delta F’s products and technologies complement our range of process 
We will continue to pursue our strategy of investing 
in new products and applications, seeking acquisition 
opportunities and expanding our market positions and 
regional presence. 13 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
gas analysis solutions, further extending our measurement capabilities in the In-line 
Instrumentation segment. 
 
Focusing on operational excellence
We continued to focus on improving operational efficiency with a number of on-going 
initiatives during the year. Despite the general increases in material costs as the global 
economy recovered, our China-based strategic sourcing team, together with operating 
company purchasing managers, continued to accelerate the pace of sourcing from 
lower-cost countries, and we now have a well-established supply chain of partners in 
China, south-east Asia and eastern Europe. The value of items sourced or manufactured 
in lower-cost countries now accounts for approximately 11% of our total cost of goods 
sold. It is also worth noting that we have limited exposure to energy and commodity 
input prices. Lean manufacturing programmes have been introduced across the group. 
An example is at NDC Infrared Engineering’s facility in the USA, as described in the case 
study below.
Building our presence in key strategic growth areas, both organically and 
through acquisition
The acquisitions we have made during the year have improved our positions in key 
strategic markets. In addition, we are placing increasing focus on the more resilient areas 
of our business, for example customer support, service and consumables, which now 
represent 29% of sales. We continue to look for suitable acquisition opportunities to build 
our strategic business segments.
John O’Higgins
Chief Executive
Focusing on operational 
excellence
At NDC Infrared Engineering, lean 
manufacturing initiatives have been 
introduced including outsourcing, 
supply chain realignment and extensive 
use of organisational techniques such as 
5S and visual management. These focus 
the company on critical value-added 
processes and tangible productivity 
improvements. Supply chain initiatives 
include realignment with suppliers 
whose business models and processes 
more closely fit with NDC’s in order 
to establish a global supply chain 
that provides NDC with a sustainable 
competitive advantage.
