 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 18
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Chief Executive’s Review
Trading in 2011 was strong across all business 
segments, regions and most end markets, resulting in 
record sales and operating profit. On a reported basis, 
sales for the year were 23% higher than in 2010. 
Acquisitions contributed 7% and currency 1%, 
resulting in constant currency organic (like-for-like) 
sales growth of 15%.
Regionally, sales in Asia Pacific in the year grew by 
17% on a like-for-like basis, with continued strength 
in China, where sales increased by 27%. North 
America grew by 14% and Europe was up by 13%. 
Aftersales, service and consumables, which are an 
important part of our business and provide a large 
degree of resilience, represented 26% of total  
group sales.
Adjusted operating margin, at 18.2%, is 2.4pp higher 
than in 2010, as a result of the growth in sales and 
continuing good cost control across our businesses, 
with gross margins increasing by 0.2pp to 58.6%.
Cash conversion was in line with our expectations, 
with 89% of operating profit converted into 
operating cash. Capital expenditure increased  
during the year, mainly due to an investment in  
The Netherlands, where we opened a new state- 
of-the-art manufacturing facility. 
Strategy
We made significant progress on our strategy during 
the year. Some of the highlights are illustrated below:
Strengthening market positions through 
innovation
We maintained our investment in research and 
development, with expenditure at £75.8 million, or 
7% of sales, and we launched a number of new 
products, technologies and applications across  
the group, which are described in more detail in  
the Operating Review which follows. Notable 
amongst these was the Mastersizer 3000 particle 
characterisation system from our Materials Analysis 
segment, launched in September. This combines the 
highest optical performance with intelligent software, 
providing greater analysis capabilities in a compact, 
sleekly-designed benchtop instrument. The system 
has been received enthusiastically by customers and 
has already won a major design award. 
Increasing regional expansion with a focus on 
emerging markets
Sales to Asia increased by 17% compared with the 
prior year on a like-for-like basis. At 33% of total 
group sales, this region is now a similar size to 
Europe. In response to the continued growth in 
demand, during the year Malvern Instruments 
opened an additional regional sales office in central 
Shandong province, China, and Beta LaserMike 
established a direct sales operation in south-east Asia. 
The acquisition of the industrial business of Sysmex in 
the fourth quarter of 2010 has provided us with a 
direct sales presence for materials analysis systems in 
Japan and improved our market position there. 
Building our presence in key strategic growth 
areas, both organically and through acquisition
The acquisition of Omega Engineering at the end of 
September 2011 represents a strategic platform for 
growth within the Industrial Controls segment, which 
now represents around 18% of total group sales on a 
pro-forma basis. Integration of the business into the 
Industrial Controls segment is proceeding well and 
results for the first three months of ownership have 
exceeded our expectations. 
John O’Higgins
Chief Executive
We maintained our investment in research and development, with 
expenditure at 7% of sales, and launched a number of new products, 
technologies and applications across the group.
27%
Increase in sales  
to China
£75.8m
Expenditure on  
R&D up 17% Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Growing existing businesses through acquisition
We made three bolt-on acquisitions during 2011. The 
acquisition of IRM in August extends our gauging 
product capabilities in the metals processing market 
and the acquisition of Sixnet in October expands our 
position in the industrial networking market. We also 
acquired key intellectual property and other assets 
relating to a line of benchtop X-ray analysers for the 
Materials Analysis segment in October. The bolt-on 
acquisitions made in 2010 have been successfully 
integrated into the business and made a good 
contribution in 2011. 
In the Test and Measurement segment, the acquisitions 
of nCode, LDS and Lochard, completed in 2008 and 
2009, have accelerated sales in the automotive, 
aerospace and environmental monitoring markets. 
Together with the efficiencies achieved following the 
integration of these businesses, this has resulted in a 
return on sales for the segment of 15.8%.
Focusing on operational excellence
Initiatives to improve operational efficiency across  
the group continued to deliver benefits. Our strategic 
sourcing teams made excellent progress in the year 
and the value of items sourced or manufactured in 
lower-cost countries, principally Asia and Eastern 
Europe, has now increased to approximately 14%  
of the total spend on materials in cost of goods  
sold (2010: 11%). We completed two significant 
investments in 2011 to improve operational 
efficiency: the first phase of a new enterprise resource 
planning (ERP) system at our BTG business, which will 
bring greater integration of all operational aspects  
of the business into a single management system, 
and a state-of-the-art manufacturing facility for our 
PANalytical business in Eindhoven, The Netherlands, 
which will bring greater efficiency to the production 
of X-ray tubes. These investments, together with 
many smaller projects across all of our operations, 
ensure that our focus on the manufacture and supply 
of critical components and products is done to the 
highest levels of quality and efficiency. 
John O’Higgins
Chief Executive
