 20 Business review / Chairman’s statement
Chairman’s 
statement
“ We have established a solid 
platform from which to build 
and, whilst we remain alert 
to the continuing uncertainty 
in the economy, we expect 
to make further progress 
in 2011/12.” 
 
Ishbel Macpherson 
Non-Executive Chairman
Overview
Whilst it has been another challenging year for our sector,  
I am pleased to report that the business has been stabilised 
through continued cost management, improvement in pricing 
and an ongoing investment programme in our depot network, 
IT trading platform, hire fleet and services. Each of these has 
contributed to the establishment of a solid base from which  
to return the business to growth.
Notwithstanding exceptional costs of £20.8m, which contributed 
to an overall loss before tax of £27.0m, we saw the benefits of these 
actions in 2010/11 in the reversal of the first half losses to end the 
year at a broadly breakeven position (profit before tax, amortisation 
and exceptional items). The year on year revenue comparatives 
improved throughout the course of the year, with particular progress 
made in recovering UK hire rates following the declines over the last 
few years. Our loss before tax (pre-amortisation and exceptional 
items) was £0.7m, compared to a loss of £6.2m in 2009/10 and 
a loss of £9.9m in the first half of 2010/11. Our ongoing drive to keep 
tight control over costs, whilst working to improve revenues, has 
resulted in a further reduction in like-for-like operating costs of 2.9% 
year on year. Our EBITDA margin (pre-amortisation and exceptional 
items) improved during the course of the year, having been 14.0% 
in the first half and 21.7% in the second half. We also managed the 
business so as to maximise cash generation, with the result that 
year end net debt was £5.4m lower than at the previous year end, 
despite a 52% increase in net capex to £31.7m. 
The sale of our loss-making Accommodation Hire operation for 
£34.9m in cash and the unwinding of its retained working capital, 
estimated to be approximately £3.6m, will also serve to reduce  
debt further. Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review / Chairman’s statement 21 
Strategic progress
These results, and particularly the recovery in the second half, 
where the EBITA margin (pre-exceptional items) increased by 
9.9 percentage points compared to the first half, are a reflection 
of the successful implementation of the Group’s strategy of 
developing close, long-term strategic partnerships with major 
customers and industrial groups. This has allowed us to gain access 
to their supply chains at low cost, and offer broader complementary 
activities in testing, inspection, repair, maintenance, asset 
management, training and advisory services, both in the UK 
and increasingly, internationally. 
Having taken decisive action in 2009 in response to the global 
financial crisis and realigned the cost base, the focus in 2010/11 has 
been on strengthening the balance sheet to prepare the business 
for growth in line with this strategy as the economy recovers. 
During 2010/11 we continued to invest in our network, our IT 
infrastructure, our assets and in our complementary non-hire 
services (e.g. testing, training and sales) which differentiate the 
business and thereby provides it with a platform to broaden its 
offerings to a wider range of customer segments. Our strategy will 
continue to underpin the Group throughout 2011/12 as we maintain 
our focus on cash, costs and customers, whilst recovering growth 
in our business.
Our priority remains to restore our UK business to full health, 
investing to refresh the fleet and in the improvement of the  
efficiency of our property portfolio. We will also continue to 
develop our fledgling businesses, principally International 
and Training & Advisory Services, at a measured pace.
Funding
The Group’s bank facility, which is a revolving credit facility  
of £210m, matures in June 2012. In preparation for this, the Group  
is in advanced discussions with its existing bank group, along with 
other lenders, regarding its refinancing requirements and expects  
to secure replacement funding in the near future. 
Dividend
The Company paid an interim dividend of 0.2p per ordinary 
share on 28 January 2011, consistent with the interim dividend  
paid in 2009/10.
We remain committed to a progressive dividend policy as markets 
recover, but remain cautious in our approach to cash in the interim. 
The Board is therefore recommending an unchanged final dividend 
of 0.2 pence per share. This represents a cash cost of c.£1m. 
If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM, this will 
bring the total for the year to 0.4 pence per share. 
Governance and board changes
Since the Company listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1993, our 
Board and executive governance structures have developed and 
improved. We are fully compliant with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and firmly believe that good governance reduces risk and 
adds value to the business.
The Board has undergone a number of changes in the past year 
and further changes will take place in the forthcoming year. 
Justin Read, the Group Finance Director, has resigned to join the 
Board of SEGRO plc, as its Group Finance Director. Justin will be 
leaving on 26 August 2011. A recruitment process for a new Group 
Finance Director will commence immediately and an announcement 
will be made once this process has been concluded. 
The Board would like to express its gratitude to Justin for his 
invaluable contribution to the Group over the last three years  
and to wish Justin every success in his future career.
David Wallis retired at the end of December 2010, having served 
as Chairman of the Company for over 10 years. Claudio Veritiero, 
MD of Asset Services, left the Group in October 2010 as part of our 
cost reduction programme. Michael Averill was appointed as Senior 
Independent Director on 1 January 2011, at the same time as I 
became Chairman. Further changes amongst the Non-Executive 
Directors will take place this year as Peter Atkinson will retire at the 
forthcoming AGM, having served six years on the Board. The Board 
has commenced a search for a new Non-Executive Director.
We are most grateful to David, Claudio and Peter for their invaluable 
contributions and wish them well for the future. 
Employees
2010/11 saw another year of tremendous commitment from our 
people. The quality of our people continues to be a core strength 
of our business. Our recovery through this year is down to the 
performance of Steve Corcoran, his team and all the employees 
who continue to build the business. I would like to thank them  
all, on behalf of the Board, for their skill, dedication, hard work 
and loyalty throughout this period of upheaval and difficult 
economic conditions. 
Outlook
In conclusion, whilst we acknowledge that our business has 
been through a very difficult and unrewarding period for our 
shareholders, management has aggressively taken action with 
regard to cash, costs and capex to ensure that the Group has not 
only survived the short term challenges to its future, but that it is 
now far stronger as a business and is very well placed for the future. 
Whilst April’s trading was affected by the impact of the late Easter 
and the subsequent Royal Wedding public holiday, the new financial 
year has begun satisfactorily. Although we remain alert to the 
continuing uncertainty in the economy, which we believe will 
continue for some time to come in the construction sector in 
particular, we are confident that the actions we have taken give  
us a solid platform from which to build and that we will continue 
to make progress in 2011/12. Our leading market position, our 
advanced systems, our strong cash flow and our clear market 
approach, position the Group strongly to take full advantage of  
the market upturn when economic conditions eventually improve.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held at 11.00am on 13 July 2011 at Mere Court Hotel 
& Conference Centre, Knutsford, Cheshire. I look forward to seeing 
you there.
Ishbel Macpherson
Non-Executive Chairman
Business review
