 22 Business review / Chief Executive’s review
Chief Executive’s 
review
“ With revenues up, rates and 
margins improving and costs 
down, we are well set to deliver 
sustainable growth.” 
 
Steve Corcoran 
Chief Executive
Overview
The financial year which closed 31 March 2011 signalled the 
end of the most tumultuous period in the Group’s history, with the 
business recording a profit before tax, amortisation and exceptional 
items of £9.2m in the second half, reversing a £9.9m loss in the first 
half. When the financial crisis broke in September 2008 our business 
was on a significant growth curve, having reported 22.3% revenue 
growth in the first half of 2008/09, and was still in the process of 
integrating Hewden Tools which we had acquired in the prior year. 
The subsequent sharp contraction in construction activity left us with 
effectively two businesses to restructure as well as an integration 
to complete. Since that time through aggressive and determined 
action we have reduced our headcount by 29%, our vehicle fleet 
by a similar amount and removed 33% of our operational sites. 
It was this determined action that gave us the confidence to 
announce at this year’s interims that, after a two year period 
of disappointing results, we were confident that the business 
had turned the corner. Our second half performance has 
supported that claim. Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review / Chief Executive’s review 23 
Our performance in 2010/11
I am pleased to report that we have reversed our first half losses 
in the second half of the year, to end the year at a broadly break 
even position (profit before tax, amortisation and exceptional items), 
in line with our expectations. Whilst it was a challenging target 
to turn around a £9.9m first half loss (loss before tax, amortisation 
and exceptional items), it was satisfying to have delivered on that 
expectation with a second half performance which delivered  
a 9.9 percentage point improvement in operating margin (pre-
amortisation and exceptional items) and a 54.6% increase in our 
EBITDA performance (pre-exceptional items) over the six months, 
at a time when our principal market, construction, continued  
to be in decline. The achievement is even more encouraging 
when considering that the performance of our Accommodation 
Hire operation continued to decline year on year and one of our 
principal clients, Connaught Plc, fell into administration. It is 
pleasing to note that after a period of eighteen months of 
aggressive self-help, in which we merged eleven trading entities 
into one, established a single UK based Shared Services Centre, 
completed the move of the entire Group onto a single IT platform 
and took the robust action against costs as outlined above 
(which have collectively contributed to an annualised reduction 
in our operating costs of approximately £110m since June 2008), 
that we saw the benefits of those initiatives come through in the 
second half. 
Looking ahead into the current year and beyond, in the UK we are 
benefitting from improving hire rates (closing the year up 10% year 
on year), increasing demand and a more efficient cost base. 
Having sold the loss making Accommodation Hire operation, 
we are confident that we have secured a strong platform that will 
provide for a sustainable recovery. In addition, we have diversified 
our business with the continued development of the new 
International operation, based in the UAE, the specialist Engineering 
operation to target activity in the Industrial and Rail markets and the 
Training & Advisory operation to assist clients with their risk 
management, especially in the use and application of rented plant 
and machinery. Whilst these operations are at an early stage in 
their development, we are encouraged by their progress and are 
confident that they will provide a meaningful contribution and 
differentiation in the future.
Operating network
Our strategy provides for a reduction in the number of operational 
outlets as we consolidate a number of operations that exist in the 
same or adjacent towns and cities into fewer, larger sites. This will 
support us in the development of a three tier operating model of:
regional Multi Service Centre’s (MSC’s), which will act as regional > >
distribution centres as well as hosting our main workshop 
services and specialist hire facilities (light plant, fencing & safety 
decking); 
Superstores, which will provide a tools, lifting and survey > >
capability under one roof to serve the major conurbations; we 
will retain the integrity of independent specialist skills but realise 
greater efficiency from our transport, administration and 
maintenance capabilities; and
Local Tool Hire, where customer needs tend to be more > >
unplanned and reactive. In order to support our local, regional 
and national customers, and those more transient customers 
engaged in service, maintenance and FM activities, it is 
important that we offer full geographic coverage and be close 
to their operations, especially in areas of specific industrial 
or economic activity e.g. Grangemouth, Sellafield, Scunthorpe 
and Fawley. 
In pursuit of this strategy, during the year we reduced the overall 
number of outlets from which we operate from 363 to 327, and 
opened our ninth Superstore. We have a further eight Superstores 
in various stages of internal planning or development.
IT trading platform
We have rigorously maintained our commitment to increasing both 
our investment in, and use of, technology. After a year of further IT 
investment (£2.6m), 2010/11 was the first full year in which we 
benefitted from the transfer of all business activities onto a single IT 
trading platform. When combined with the consolidation of the UK 
Hire operations into one trading entity, we now have full 
transparency of all our assets, customers and trading activities. 
The benefits from this investment are already evident, with greater 
visibility over our hire fleet availability, its location and operational 
status helping to drive improvements in utilisation (Q4 utilisation in 
the UK was up 12% year on year) and thereby reduce capex needs. 
With the availability of improved information and reporting, we are 
able to analyse better our performance, as well as to identify older 
or under-utilised assets. These can then be disposed of and the 
cash proceeds (£16.2m in 2010/11) made available to be re-cycled 
for re-investment into new assets in areas of greater demand. This 
capability has enabled us to replenish the fleet, whilst reducing the 
need for traditional levels of additional debt or capital. 
We are confident that our extensive investment in IT, which  
was maintained throughout the downturn, will provide the platform 
to drive margin growth, improve return on capital employed and 
enhance our overall customer service (which already enjoys a 92.7% 
recommendation score). The advancements in our systems also 
provide flexibility to adopt new services and activities in support 
of our clients’ risk management, as well as enhancing our 
international growth capability. 
Disposal of Accommodation Hire operation
Since the year end, we have announced the disposal of our 
Accommodation Hire operation for £34.9m (retaining the working 
capital estimated to be £3.6m) to Elliott Group, a wholly owned 
subsidiary of Algeco Scotsman which is the world’s leading provider 
of rented, temporary accommodation. As a part of the disposal both 
parties have entered into a three year exclusive partnering 
agreement which will see us support each other in the provision 
of our respective fleet services. Elliott will become the provider 
of accommodation services and toilet hire to Speedy throughout 
the UK, with Speedy supporting Elliott’s requirements in the 
provision of tools and equipment, such as power generation, 
lighting and compaction equipment. In addition, we will also 
further expand our service based revenues through the provision 
of engineering support to maintain Elliott’s c.1,650 strong generator 
fleet for an initial period of three years from May 2011. The disposal 
is a sensible move with clear commercial benefit to the Group  
as it removes our only established, non market leading and loss 
making operation from the business, whilst enabling two market 
leaders to offer their respective customers access to a more 
comprehensive offering. 
Business review Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
24 Business review / Chief Executive’s review
Chief Executive’s review  
continued
Contractual revenue stream with major businesses  
and their downstream contractors
Despite the challenging market conditions that have persisted, the 
business has continued in its objective to secure closer relationships 
with the UK’s major construction, engineering and infrastructure 
groups. We are convinced that this has proven to be the right 
strategy evidenced by the fact that:
we have broadened our customer base into non-construction > >
markets such that non-construction now accounts for around 
53% of Group revenue. In construction, 58.5% of our revenues 
are secured with the major contractors directly;
at a time of heightened financial uncertainty, larger clients offer > >
far greater debt security and, more importantly, workload 
security; 
with the conditions facing UK construction forecast to remain > >
difficult, spending on infrastructure, especially in markets 
associated with water, waste, energy and transport, are 
expected to be more resilient and these activities tend to be the 
domain of the major contractors and specialist trades; 
work in these markets is more visible, sustainable and securely > >
funded; 
the trust of major clients gives access to and influence over their > >
sub-contractor base; and
forecasts suggest there will be further consolidation in our end > >
markets, with the major contractors taking more market share. 
Stronger relationships with them ensure that we are able to gain 
market share from this consolidation process.
Our improved knowledge and understanding of end markets  
has also enabled us to secure work directly with the end users 
themselves. For example, in the water sector we have won hire 
contracts with Thames Water and Wessex Water and services 
contracts from United Utilities and Severn Trent Water. In the energy 
sector, we have also secured significant new business awards from 
Murco, Chevron and Exxon for integrated site based supply. 
Outside of infrastructure we have also successfully targeted large 
capital projects. These projects are subject to extensive financial 
and commercial due diligence, which provides us with confidence 
that the funding structures are secure and the projects themselves 
more sustainable. With large capital commitments in highly 
complex engineering and construction programmes, these projects 
require careful planning and highly skilled project management. 
They therefore also tend to be the domain of the major contractors. 
Our success in understanding these issues is evidenced by our 
award this month of the integrated on-site facilities with Brookfield 
Multiplex at the new £750m Glasgow South hospital. 
Cash and finance
Our business is a strong generator of cash and the capacity to use 
this to pay down debt has been one of the great achievements 
during the recent difficult years. 
We entered the downturn with peak net debt at July 2008 of 
£303.2m and we finished the 2010/11 year with net debt of £113.9m 
(before receipts from the disposal of the Accommodation Hire 
operation). Since the start of the recession we have reduced debt 
by almost £190m. Whilst approximately £100m of this was with the 
support of our shareholders through a Rights Issue in July 2009, 
we have paid off a further £90m through funds internally 
generated, despite total cash costs of £26.8m associated with 
bank facility amendment fees, property closures, redundancy costs 
and other activities associated with our restructuring programme. 
This equates to a total cash generation through the period 
of £116.8m. 
At the end of the financial year we have net debt to EBITDA at less 
than two times and net debt to net tangible fixed assets at only 
0.52x. We have a strong balance sheet, which leaves us well placed 
as we move forward to capitalise on the strength of our cash 
generation to fund further capital investment as trading conditions 
continue to improve.
Strategy
Our strategy is to develop a service led capability; one that is built 
around customer intimacy by gaining a real understanding of our 
customers and their markets. As we know them better, we are more 
able to develop services that are specifically designed for them and 
support the requirements they have to maintain their own 
differentiation to their clients. Success is evident in that for the year 
ended 31 March 2011 over 28% of our revenues have been derived 
from non-rental services. These activities are less dependent upon 
capital and provide far greater engagement with our customers, 
whilst providing clear differentiation from those peers who continue 
to operate a vanilla hire offering. It is our firm view that, without the 
addition of value added service capabilities, hire in isolation will 
continue to see price erosion and eventually become a commodity 
based activity. Service is valued, the provision of a product  
or an asset is not!
To not have a value added offering also fails to understand why 
customers have turned to hire in the first place. Our customers 
hire to mitigate three risks:
capital risk: the capital cost to purchase equipment and to > >
replace equipment, together with the balance sheet impact 
of owning the equipment;
operating risk: the risk associated with the costs involved > >
in financing land/property rental to operate a plant fleet,  
the cost of spares and parts in maintaining equipment and the 
logistics costs associated with transporting, storing and moving 
equipment; all of these are costs that have to be recovered 
in customers’ tendering/bidding processes but yet are not 
core activities; and
legislative risk: the increasing risks associated with legislative > >
compliance, especially in areas of Health and Safety and, 
increasingly, environmental management and sustainability.  Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review / Chief Executive’s review 25 
However, hiring alone will not remove these risks. For example, 
if hired equipment is given to someone who is inadequately trained 
or who uses it in an inappropriate manner then the customer runs 
the risk of injury to people or damage to the machinery or property 
exposing the customer to additional compliance or financial risk. 
Equally, legislative risk resides if the wrong equipment is specified  
or is hired where it is not suitable for use in an activity exposed  
to safety or environmental risk. Customers take more comfort from 
having access to the experts. We can give guidance on the most 
suitable product applicable, mitigating risks to the company, 
individuals and the brand. 
It is an appreciation and understanding of issues like these and the 
drivers for hire, that has led us to establish our Training & Advisory 
service, our test, repair, inspection and maintenance capability and 
our consumable and equipment sales offering. This ensures that 
our customers have access to the support mechanisms and the 
range of service requirements to enable them better to manage 
the risks associated with plant and machinery in their own 
operations. By developing these services we also enhance 
the capability to shift our business from a rented asset provider  
to a plant services outsourcer.
This move is not a radical shift from what we do, but an evolutionary 
extension of what we have traditionally provided, both in support 
of our own business and also in an ad-hoc way to our clients. Now 
encompassed in our service business, they are being increasingly 
recognised by customers as a real value add extension in our 
offering and, as such, a clear business differentiation. When 
accompanied with the benefits afforded from our industry leading 
IT capability, we are increasingly able to offer our clients 
a compelling proposition. It is of particular relevance to those  
clients who are large, regular users of hired equipment and they 
therefore value what we do. 
Our business is now in a strong position, although it has 
been through a very difficult period which has not provided our 
shareholders a satisfactory return in recent times. We are confident 
that the aggressive action taken to right-size the business has 
provided us with a secure platform from which to rebuild. Our 
decisions, whilst having to be appropriate for the environment in 
which we found ourselves, have always been accompanied with 
a clear view for the needs of the business over the longer term. 
Our prime focus has been on ensuring that we had a strong and 
healthy balance sheet throughout the downturn, even if that was 
at the expense of short term profitability. This action was driven  
by a clear focus on the 3 C’s of cash, costs and customers. This has 
ensured that the Group has not only survived the severe short term 
challenges to its future, but has emerged far stronger and is now 
very positively positioned for future growth. 
Current trading and prospects
As a result of the aggressive and determined action taken by 
management in pursuit of our strategy, Group revenue (excluding 
fleet equipment sales) has improved year on year by 3.6% after 
adjusting for the drag effect of the Accommodation Hire operation. 
The improvement was 3.2% for the core UK Tools, Lifting and Survey 
operations. Our Power business, which was loss making in the 
earlier part of 2010/11, traded profitably in the second half and, with 
the fledgling operations in International, Engineering (a part of UK 
Asset Services) and Training & Advisory also progressively moving 
towards profitability, we are confident that our recovery is well under 
way. However, we are not complacent since 2011/12 will not be 
without its challenges:
the construction market is forecast to remain difficult, with output > >
expected to fall a further 0.8% this year;
the 1% increase in National Insurance contributions which came > >
into effect in April 2011 will add to our operating cost as we 
remain very much a people business, employing almost 3,800 
people in the UK;
fuel costs remain persistently high and are forecast to remain > >
so for the foreseeable future; every penny increase in fuel per 
litre increases our costs by c.£80,000 annually;
local authorities are expected to increase the business rates > >
to offset spending cuts and other financial challenges; with 
over 300 outlets in the UK, business rates cost us £4.0m 
in 2010/11; and
the April period was down year on year (as expected) as a result > >
of a late Easter, followed by an additional public holiday for the 
Royal Wedding leading into the May Day bank holiday; these 
combined to reduce the number of charging days in the period 
and resulted in many customers taking an extended break. 
We are confident in our ability to deal with these issues with  
a renewed vigour in the Group. Having successfully restructured  
the business we are now very firmly focussed on looking forward, 
whilst maintaining a tight control over the 3 C’s of Cash, Costs and 
Customers. Capex investment will be progressively increased and 
will continue to be supported through the disposal of underutilised 
or older assets such that net investment will remain lower than that 
traditionally seen. 
Finally, it is important to recognise the continued commitment  
of the dedicated people throughout the business. Our people  
have responded magnificently throughout these difficult times  
and I am pleased to acknowledge their hard work. With trading 
improving, rates recovering and return on capital increasing, 
we look forward with increasing confidence. However, this more 
positive outlook is tempered with an acknowledgement that in the 
short term there will continue to be challenges as our business and 
the country as a whole emerge from recession. 
Steve Corcoran 
Chief Executive
Business review
