 18  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Business review
CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT
DAVID WALLIS
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
OVERVIEW
It has been another diffi  cult and challenging year for your company, 
as evidenced by the unsatisfactory fi nancial result achieved. 
However, it is important to put this into context. A year ago I set 
out our strategy for the coming 12 months: to maximise revenues, 
optimise costs, generate cash and reduce bank debt. I am pleased 
to report that each objective has successfully been achieved. 
Despite revenues declining in the year by 27%, market share has been 
maintained, albeit at a slight cost to margins. Since July 2008, costs 
have been reduced by over £80m, or 18%, and during the past year 
the business has generated £52m of operating cash fl ow. As a result of 
this strong cash generation and the successful rights issue in July 2009, 
together with tight control of capital expenditure, net bank debt 
reduced from £248.4m to £1 19.3m, leaving gearing as at 31 March 2010 
at 48%, the lowest in the Group’s history, which illustrates our progress 
in strengthening the balance sheet. 
 
We remain committed to paying a dividend when prudent to do 
so and the Board is therefore recommending a fi nal dividend of 
0.2 pence per share. If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming 
AGM, this will bring the total for the year to 0.4 pence per share. The 
fi nal dividend will be paid on 18 August 2010 to all shareholders on 
the register on 18 June 2010.
STRATEGY
Although we have seen a more stable trading environment over the 
last six months, levels of activity in the construction and industrial 
markets remain subdued and uncertainty over the number and size 
of public sector projects will persist until the Government is able to 
give clear guidance. As a result, we will continue to run the business 
cautiously. Our short-term focus will remain on cash and costs, whilst 
ensuring that we do not compromise our ability to service our hard-won 
customer base. Over the last year, our business with the UK’s top 50 
construction companies has continued to increase and now makes 
up 27% of revenues. These companies operate extensively in both 
the public and private sectors. As a result of the supply arrangements 
which we have with them, the future fl ow of work to Speedy mirrors 
their order books and improves the future visibility of our earnings.
We will focus on growing the existing business organically, with 
the immediate objective of improving margins in a move towards 
generating appropriate returns. Additionally, we will nurture our 
fl edgling business in the Middle East, which is already showing 
extremely positive signs of growth, as well as our Branded and 
Advisory business. 
Business review ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  19
As the business and its back offi  ce functions have been restructured 
over the last year, we are now beginning to see the benefi ts of those 
actions. The setting up of a Shared Services Centre, replacing a 
network of regional offi  ces, and the successful implementation of the 
‘One Speedy’ programme are producing benefi ts for both customers 
and the business. There is now greater visibility of our assets, their 
location and their utilisation, which will ultimately enhance returns 
and enable us to provide higher service levels.
Over the longer term, we are seeking to evolve Speedy’s strategy 
to become a service provider to our clients wherever they have 
operations, building on the relationships we have already established 
with them. To achieve this we must off er the best quality fl eet 
and operational network, as well as testing, repair, maintenance 
and training facilities, all provided by well-trained, skilled and 
knowledgeable people.
OUR PEOPLE
It has been a year of tremendous upheaval and uncertainty for our 
people, who have responded magnifi cently to the challenges. There 
will undoubtedly be many more in the year ahead, but it is at times 
like these that a strong culture and team spirit win the day. I would like 
to extend the thanks of the Board and shareholders to all of them.
LOOKING FORWARD
The more stable levels of recent trading are encouraging, which may 
indicate that economic activity in our markets is bottoming out, but 
we are under no illusions that there remain many diffi  cult months 
ahead. Until there are clear indications that recovery is established, we 
will invest in new fl eet behind the demand curve, rather than ahead 
of it, but equally will ensure that we maintain service levels to our 
existing clients. We will also prudently invest behind our Middle East 
operation in support of our strategic services agreement with Al 
Futtaim Carillion.
The short-term focus will remain on cash generation, whilst running 
the business as effi  ciently as possible in a demanding market. I am 
confi dent that we have adopted a strategy which will serve our 
shareholders well in both the short and longer term. As activity levels 
improve, your business is in good shape to capitalise on the recovery.
DAVID WALLIS
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
IT HAS BEEN A YEAR OF 
TREMENDOUS UPHEAVAL 
AND UNCERT AINTY FOR 
OUR PEOPLE, WHO HAVE 
RESPONDED MAGNIFICENTL Y 
TO THE CHALLENGES 
Business review
