 20  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Business review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
STEVE CORCORAN
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OVERVIEW
Throughout the past fi nancial year we have consolidated our 
market-leading position with clients in the UK (both construction and 
non-construction) whom we saw as being the principal benefi ciaries 
of a polarising market in the short term and a consolidating one over 
the longer term. This has been accompanied with an unstinting focus 
on delivering the objectives we outlined last year, namely to maximise 
revenues, optimise costs, generate cash and reduce bank debt. 
In the fi rst half we concentrated on restructuring our business and 
whilst it has been a diffi  cult year it is pleasing to report that we have 
delivered on our objectives. The cost base has been reduced from 
a £464m run rate at July 2008, when we fi rst initiated our cost 
reduction programmes. It now stands at £348.6m and whilst some 
of this reduction can be explained by lower revenue, £80m+ has been 
achieved as a result of specifi c management actions. Net bank debt 
at the year end was less than £120m, down from a peak of £301.8m in 
August 2008 and £129.1m below the March 2009 fi gure, underpinned 
by a hire fl eet with a net book value of £246.9m. Additionally, we 
realised £2.7m of profi ts from asset sales which confi rms the 
appropriateness of the Group’s balance sheet valuations. Tight control 
was also maintained over capital expenditure, down 41.7% on the 
prior year.
 
Having completed the closure of 37 depots and 14 workshops, the 
removal of 322 vehicles and a 317 reduction in employee headcount 
over a 12 month period, the business was able, in the second half, 
to concentrate on reinforcing its market leading position. In the year 
we have secured over 212 new or renewed awards, with a projected 
value of £170m; including recent contract wins with Costain Plc, 
Galliford Try Plc and Willmott Dixon Ltd, together with secured 
agreements with Connaught Plc and Spice Plc in the UK and Al 
Futtaim Carillion in the UAE. These have been complemented 
with signifi cant awards in non-construction activities, including a 
£7 .5m award from ExxonMobil and a £4m award from Welsh Water Plc. 
Revenues from non-construction activities now account for 35% 
of our turnover. 
 
We will continue to keep a tight rein on costs, diligently control 
capital expenditure and manage our cash prudently. Whilst sensitivity 
remains in respect of the future outlook for some of the markets 
that we serve, the early and determined action undertaken by 
management has ensured that the business is now very strongly 
placed to benefi t from the eventual upturn. 
STRATEGY
In the short-term whilst economic uncertainty prevails, we will 
continue to manage our business very conservatively, maintaining 
a tight control over costs and cash management. In parallel we will 
continue to consolidate our market leading position with those best 
placed to support the regulated/privately fi nanced markets in energy, 
Business review ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  21
transport, waste and water and also with the key operators involved 
in the supply of services to food retailing, the communications sector 
and essential repair and maintenance. Many of these activities require 
equity investment, generally through PFI/PPP or are undertaken 
through joint ventures or framework agreements which typically lend 
themselves to the larger construction and engineering groups where 
Speedy enjoys a market leading position, with the top 50 construction 
companies accounting for 27% of our turnover. 
Over the longer term our strategy is to position Speedy as an 
international service provider. This will be achieved by building 
upon the trusted relationships established over 33 years serving 
construction and industry. Our clients hire to mitigate the risks that 
they associate with the fi nancial liability, operational management 
and compliance risk of ownership. They choose Speedy because we 
have the fl eet quality, the operational network and the product range, 
together with a commitment to health and safety, sustainability and 
quality, that best supports their objectives. However, in isolation hiring 
does not remove all risk. If hired equipment is given to someone 
inadequately trained in its use they could break it, fail in their task 
or cause injury to themselves or others; eff ectively exchanging 
one risk for another. Speedy has instigated the off er of training and 
consultancy services to complement the use of the hired asset. We 
will also use our purchasing power to provide clients with consumable 
products, e.g. drill bits, saw blades and personal protection 
equipment or safety wear, to operate equipment safely, each of 
which is integral to the use of an asset but which are typically ordered 
separately, incurring additional cost and disruption to our client.
This more integrated solution will also be enhanced with the provision 
of test and inspection services to provide for the planned service and 
maintenance needs of both owned and hired equipment. Our goal is 
a full service based off ering built around the provision of the hired 
asset and delivered by leveraging the strength of the Speedy brand 
whilst at the same time extending the size of the market in which 
Speedy operates. This more integrated off ering clearly diff erentiates 
Speedy from its peers.
FUNDING PLAN
Our business is a strong generator of cash, with net operating cash 
fl ow of £52.4m for the year to 31 March 2010. Our fi nancial model 
provides for the utilisation of operating cash fl ows to self fi nance new 
fl eet requirements in a period of non growth. This has enabled new 
fl eet investment during the year and yet still allowed us to reduce 
debt by £5m more than anticipated in November 2009. 
At our interim presentation in November 2009 we advised the market 
that to support our long-term objective of establishing Speedy as an 
international service provider we would adopt a three stage approach 
to funding requirements. 
REDUCTION IN LIABILITY
OPERATING LIABILITY
COMPLIANCE LIABILITY
FINANCIAL LIABILITY
DE-RISKING: 
WHY CUSTOMERS HIRE
Supply chain
Quality control
Price control
Management costs
Availability
Consistency
Balance sheet
Capital outlay 
Depreciation
Availability
Operating costs
Purchase costs
Health and safety
Environmental
Testing
Regulatory
Hire/Purchase
WE WILL CONTINUE TO 
MANAGE OUR BUSINESS VERY 
CONSERVA TIVEL Y , MAINT AINING 
A TIGHT CONTROL OVER COSTS 
AND CASH MANAGEMENT
Business review Business review
22 SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW C ONTINUED
In the short term, and until there is clear evidence that a  >
sustainable recovery is underway in UK construction, we will 
continue to manage our cash conservatively, funding UK capex 
to support our service level requirements from the cash generated 
by operations. The balance will continue to be used to pay 
down debt or to fund our fledgling operation in the Middle East. 
In the last financial year the business invested £7 .7m in this 
operation which generated £2.4m in revenues and achieved a 
turnover run rate of c.£10m per annum at the period end.
Investment in the hire fleet for growth is not planned until we see  >
a more sustainable recovery in UK construction activity, which 
we forecast will not occur until at least the 201 1/12 financial year 
Over the longer term (2015+), we would expect to have  >
secured sufficient future contracts, with longer term visible 
revenues, that enjoy a transparency in earnings that will support 
additional funding. 
In the meantime, we will continue to concentrate on generating 
strong cash fl ow and maintaining the strength of the balance sheet 
whilst we develop our long-term plans to build the business into a 
fully recognised outsource service provider and establish appropriate 
long-term fi nances to support such plans.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
The safety and well being of our employees, our clients, stakeholders 
and the communities in which we operate continues to be at the 
forefront of what we do. Our values, the ‘Speedy Spirit’, embody 
the way that we want to do business and be seen to do business. 
We believe that good corporate responsibility can be measured by 
a company’s commitment to its values even when economically 
pressed. We are pleased to be able to stand up to this test. In 2009 
we set ourselves four primary objectives for the year; by design these 
were intended to be three year stretching targets; our performance 
to target is as follows:
customer retention: 100% achieved (100% retained); >
emissions per vehicle: 100% achieved (reduced by 6%); >
accident loss frequency rate: 4.3% achieved (reduced by 27%); and >
rehabilitation agenda: 100% achieved (training provided for  >
200 prisoners).
We acknowledge that work still remains to be done. Our 2010 
Corporate Responsibility report will be available in July 2010 and will 
provide greater detail on these achievements and also outlines our 
objectives for the coming year. You will be able to view this report 
at www.speedyhire.plc.uk. 
Speedy is also the acknowledged leader in its fi eld for the provision 
of health and safety guidance and innovation in safety design, as 
evidenced by our award winning ‘Safety from the Ground Up’ 
campaign. An example of this is our initiative in response to site 
related hand-arm vibration risks where Speedy sourced and assisted 
with the design of an innovative meter which records and registers 
vibration whilst machinery is in use, helping to protect the user 
from excessive exposure and the employer with improved safety 
management and risk control measures. We now have over 285 of 
these on hire and they are specifi ed by clients such as Balfour Beatty, 
Bam Nuttall and Carillion. 
Our own safety record continues to improve with our All Major 
Accident Frequency Rate reducing from 5.9 to 4.3, a reduction of 
27% positioning Speedy at the forefront of our industry. 
We remain resolute in our determination to provide solutions to 
support sustainability initiatives. In conjunction with ERM Ltd, the 
world leading environmental and sustainable development 
consulting service in the supply of data relating to carbon reduction 
and sustainability, we launched our new ‘Go’ initiative. This industry 
fi rst provides our clients with a monthly carbon statement detailing 
the carbon usage of the equipment that they have hired and 
provides them with ‘Go’ credits which they can use to set targets for 
further reductions if they choose more energy effi  cient, less carbon 
emitting products.
We also continue to support the organisation ‘Business In The 
Community’ at a number of levels and continue to be members 
of the FTSE4Good index.
LOOKING AHEAD
Having taken the early and aggressive action to reduce our cost base 
by over £80m from its high of £464m, something that we started to 
instigate as early as July 2008, we developed a cost base which has 
enabled us to trade through the substantial diffi  culties that befell our 
industry post the economic and fi nancial turmoil in September 2008. 
As the benefi ts of the actions on costs fed through, we were able 
to concentrate on consolidating our clear market leading position. 
As a result, and despite trading off  substantially lower volumes, the 
Group has been able to deliver a progressive improvement in trading 
throughout the second half of the year ended 31 March 2010 and built 
a much more stable platform from which to move into the current 
calendar year.
It is encouraging to note that this stability has continued into this 
fi nancial year and that volumes on hire at the end of April 2010 were 
broadly in line with those of April 2009. Whilst we expect to see 
a further slight reduction in overall construction volumes this year, 
we expect to see our trading position maintained. This will be 
underpinned by private and regulated industry spending on 
infrastructure. Orders from this sector continue to show growth out 
to 2014 and, whilst there will be a signifi cant reduction in public sector 
spending from current levels, we do not anticipate the impact of this 
action will be felt until 201 1 as ongoing contracts will continue to 
Business review ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  23
As the year progresses and should the economic outlook 
continue to improve, we expect new opportunities to emerge 
from outsourcing. We will also maintain the development of our 
fl edgling activities in Branded & Advisory Services and gradually 
progress our business in the Middle East, which is underpinned by 
the fi ve year exclusive strategic services agreement with Al Futtaim 
Carillion. In summary, whilst the short-term outlook is not without 
its challenges, we are confi dent that we will continue to develop 
our overall strategic objectives and position our business as a full 
outsourcing partner, building upon our UK market leading 
position for asset services in rental. 
STEVE CORCORAN
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
UK & IRELAND
provide solid levels of activity until then. At that point, all market 
forecasters predict that the private sector will have re-established 
its traditional position as the construction industry’s principal client 
sector. As a sector agnostic business, Speedy will follow this transition 
as our clients move towards contracts in support of private clients. 
We expect this to manifest itself fi rst in spending associated with the 
energy, water, waste and transport (especially rail) sectors, followed 
by the major food retailers.
Given our key relationships with those clients that continue to increase 
market share in their particular markets and given the progressive 
improvement in trading in H2 2010 which has continued into 201 1, our 
current expectation is that the business will maintain this momentum 
in the current fi nancial year, notwithstanding uncertainty in respect 
of the short-term economic outlook. As ever, we will continue to 
concentrate closely on keeping a tight control over costs and will 
retain a clear focus on generating cash.
SPEEDY’S
STRATEGY
OPTIMISE CAPITAL 
STRUCTURE
LONGER TERM 
STRATEGIC GOALS
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015+
Focus on cash, manage costs, 
contain capital expenditure 
and improve margins
Work with and plan future 
requirements of current 
revolving credit facilities
Recognition as a service business
Reduce capital intensity/ Further improve return on capital expenditure
SHORT-TERM
Existing facility 
maturity date
Review overall capital structure 
to align funding strategy with 
business priorities 
Timeline and Strategic Goals
OUR STRATEGY – THE BUILDING BLOCKS
MID TO LONGER TERM
June 2012
TARGETED
REVENUE
MIX
BRANDED 
& ADVISORY 
SERVICES
REST OF 
WORLD
MENA
Consider stand alone 
MENA fi nancing
Geographic diversifi cation, product development and enhanced service provision
Drive customer intimacy – establish longer term outsourcing agreements
>  Focus on cash
> Communication of strategy
>  Self fi nance Middle East and North 
Africa (MENA) operations and 
establish Branded & Advisory Services
An international organisation providing multiple services. 
We understand our customers in depth and are ready to adapt to their 
changing needs and markets at any time through superior knowledge, 
integrated systems and operational eff ectiveness
Business review
