 04
SPI Lasers plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 
OvERvIEw
i am pleased to report that the group has made 
considerable strides in its development during 
2007 and i believe is now well placed to meet 
the challenges of the rapidly changing 
market environment.
Fibre laser revenue is growing at a rate several 
times greater than the general laser market by 
both an increasing range of applications which 
exploit the inherent capability of the technology 
and also by the replacement of more 
mature technologies.
the attractiveness of the market has led to several 
companies declaring an intention to join the existing 
industrial scale players where spi is now established 
as the clear number two. the companies seeking 
to join the market are, however, potentially a long 
way from achieving the delivery of an effective 
product based on sound innovative technology 
that does not infringe the intellectual property 
of the more established players. 
In contrast, SPI has made significant technological 
progress during the year culminating in the successful 
launch of its g3 and r4 product ranges ahead 
of schedule. these platforms have addressed the 
previously reported quality issues that slowed our 
progress in the middle of the year, and are beginning 
to deliver a marked improvement in gross margin 
which should allow the group to make continued 
progress in 2008.
SPI’S PERFORMANCE duRING 2007
In spite of the difficulties encountered in the 
middle of 2007, revenue continued to almost 
double again this year and perhaps more 
importantly we continued to expand our share 
of each of our three main market areas, namely 
micro , medical and marking . the rate 
of new account wins and repeat business from 
established customers was encouraging, particularly 
at the end of the year based on acceptance 
of the new platforms. the market dynamics led 
to significant and deliberate competitive pricing 
pressure during the first half of the year. Whilst this 
has had the positive effect of reducing the price 
premium hurdle of fibre lasers compared with 
more traditional technologies, so increasing the 
accessible market, the effect in the short term on 
SPI’s profitability was sufficient spur to accelerate 
our planned investment to develop and deliver 
our new lower cost product platform, which in 
turn led to the Group’s refinancing in October 2007.
i am pleased to report that the new product 
platforms are being delivered ahead of schedule 
and also at cost and performance levels which 
are consistent with the plan to transform the 
profitability of the business during 2008.
FINANCING
as referred to in last year’s annual r eport, during 
February 2007 SPI completed a £10 million net 
equity fundraising from existing shareholders and 
a number of new supporters.
cHairman’s statement
SuMMARY OF ChAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
	 	 TuRNOvER ALMOST dOubLEd FOR ThIRd SuCCESSIvE YEAR
	 	 ExPANSION IN ALL SECTORS
	 	 LAuNCh OF NEw PROduCTS G3 ANd R4 AhEAd OF SChEduLE
“ ThE bOARd ExPECTS STRONG REvENuE GROwTh IN 2008, 
ANd REMAINS COMMITTEd TO AChIEvING PROFITAbILITY 
IN Q4 ThIS YEAR.” 05
SPI Lasers plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 
during october 2007, however, the changes 
in the competitive market environment, the cost 
of developing a lower cost platform and resolving 
the quality issues necessitated the Group raising 
a further £10.5 million (net) in equity. The fundraising 
comprised not only the placing of new shares with 
institutional investors, but also a strategic investment 
by The Furukawa Electric Co., Ltd of £2.0 million. 
ThE bOARd
t he composition of spi’s Board has changed 
during the year. david c heesman, on his retirement 
from advent Venture partners, is reducing his 
commitments and has retired from the Board. 
david had served spi since 2003, when advent 
became one of the group’s leading investors 
prior to flotation. We thank him for his wise 
counsel over the past five years.
after the interim results, steve Berg, our 
Chief Financial Officer, also left the Group in 
order to concentrate on his family interests in 
Nottinghamshire. Steve was appointed CFO 
in February 2003 and in over five years made 
a considerable contribution to the development 
of spi.
in o ctober 2007, we welcomed d avid Holloway 
as our new Chief Financial Officer. He has already 
made a significant impact both to the Board and 
to the financial and operational efficiency of 
the business.
EMPLOYEES
The design and production of fibre lasers is not 
a trivial engineering challenge, as new entrants 
to this market may now be discovering. 
the combined and successful achievements of 
our workforce in 2007 should be seen against 
that demanding background. the Board wishes 
to extend its thanks for the immense effort and 
dedication shown by the worldwide team.
PROSPECTS
as well as prospective new entrants into the market, 
last year also saw new alliances being forged 
in the fibre laser technology world. For example, 
t rumpf and Jenoptik announced a joint venture 
in mid-year; Rofin acquired a leading merchant 
supplier of specialist optical fibre (Nufern) in 
December, while Furukawa became a small, but 
strategic, shareholder in spi in october. the pace 
of change in the market place is increasing. it seems 
unlikely that the manoeuvring for advantage 
amongst the players is yet complete.
spi has begun the current year with renewed 
confidence in our ability to produce competitive 
products. o ur new product platforms are 
transforming margins and are attracting increasing 
customer interest. Field reliability and functional 
performance have been most encouraging. 
activity in the area of development contracts 
tends to be cyclical and driven by investment 
programmes. after a low ebb in 2007, the 
outlook for 2008 looks more promising with at 
least one major award close to final adjudication.
The worldwide fibre laser market continues to grow 
rapidly, despite the well-publicised softness in the 
us economy, which has had an effect on our micro 
business in the first quarter. Nevertheless our overall 
order pipeline remains strong. our new platforms 
are demonstrating good performance and high 
reliability with a widening group of repeat customers. 
margins have begun to improve with further gains 
expected through 2008. action is being taken 
to control overheads. t he Board expects strong 
revenue growth in 2008 and remains committed 
to achieving profitability in Q4 this year.
GRAhAM MEEK
cHairman
1 april 2008
cutting
with a strong ethos of product innovation, technology leadership 
and customer focus, SPI Lasers is enabling the resolution of 
some of today’s most challenging and commercially sensitive 
manufacturing issues. 
where existing technology has previously limited the precision 
cutting of miniature parts, the fibre laser has enabled manufacturers 
to produce ground breaking microscopic cut detail in some of the 
world’s smallest coronary stents.
The highly competitive electronics sector continues to leverage the 
enormous benefits of SPI’s technology, for example, superior cut 
quality of solder mask stencils for circuit boards. 
welding
Most people, when they think lasers, think welding. And this is true of 
the fibre laser from SPI. However, due to SPI’s innovative approach, 
it is now possible to weld various materials, including ones that are 
dissimilar to one another, at incredibly small dimensions.
Previous welding tools, including traditional lasers simply could 
not achieve the diminutive yet robust bond that the fibre laser 
produces. Not only is the fibre laser playing an integral part in the 
miniaturisation of consumer products, the technology is making a 
massive contribution to the quest for sustainable energy sources.
