 06
SPI Lasers plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 
OvERvIEw
2007 was a year of considerable challenge for 
the business and i am pleased to report that the 
organisation in surmounting these challenges is, 
i believe, in a much stronger position than last 
year to exploit the current opportunities in the 
market place.
Revenue of £13 million was broadly in line with 
latest market expectations, almost continuing the 
historic pattern we have established of doubling 
year on year, which we believe is an indicator that 
we have now reached critical market share in our 
selected sectors such that future growth can be 
directed to those areas producing the best return. 
the ability to make these choices, predicated on 
the new product platforms introduced towards the 
end of 2007, will be crucial if we are to navigate 
through the uncertain global market environment 
of 2008, and secure our primary objective of 
transforming the group from an investment 
phase company to a profitable enterprise.
Having secured a number of significant contract 
wins in d ecember 2007 with a combined revenue 
potential of over us$10 million, and a rapid 
acquisition of new customers based on our new 
product platforms, we finished the year with cash 
resources at £11.3 million, ahead of expectation. 
continued focus on cash management remains 
a fundamental objective of the business.
The first half of the year experienced strong 
volume growth in line with market expectations. 
the industry market leader, however, introduced 
a radical, competitive pricing strategy in mid-year. 
This had the benefit of widening the accessible 
market through the removal of the fibre laser price 
premium compared with the more established 
technology alternatives. However, it also had the 
downside of eroding the economic return of our 
then product offering. this was compounded by 
the previously reported quality issues. This resulted 
in spi’s management team focusing on accelerating 
the development of new product platforms, which 
could not only offer enhanced performance and 
reliability, but should also positively transform 
margin performance.
the new product platforms have been launched 
ahead of schedule, have been well received by 
customers and should lead to strong growth again 
in 2008. the ‘once-off’ competitive pricing action 
in the first half of the year has created a new price 
reference level in the market which has remained 
relatively stable and it appears to have achieved 
its objective of widening the accessible market. 
the price of surmounting the above challenges 
was a further equity fundraising in October 2007 
which raised £10.5 million (net), including 
a £2.0 million strategic investment by Furukawa. 
Furukawa’s investment was particularly significant 
for spi, both in terms of spi’s technological 
credentials and also its commercial standing 
within the fast developing Far Eastern markets.
PROduCTS ANd MARKETS
in previous years, spi’s business was dominated 
by one area: micro . as we have grown this is 
no longer the case and therefore we will treat 
each sector in turn.
medical : our revenue has been historically 
dominated by oem module supply to leading 
machine integrators operating in the aesthetic 
and cosmetic arena. w e expect to build on this 
success but also to add more diversification in the 
future. the spi product is a module operating at 
a wavelength of 1550nm and leverages our core 
competencies in special fibre design and production. 
w e began the year with two customers who had 
high initial demand which then reached a plateau. 
w e ended the year with increased demand, 
potential for significant contract wins, a new 
higher-power product, business spread across 
four key accounts and the ability to migrate this 
product to our new lower cost standard platform.
micro : this market is a diverse set of cutting 
and welding applications in industries such as 
medical component manufacture, automotive, 
consumer electronics and semiconductors. 
this has been the longest-standing market sector 
for spi. during the year the product line continued 
to grow steadily but suffered the most price erosion 
in 2007. w e responded with dramatic improvements 
in our costs, which were achieved by completely 
redesigning the product with much improved 
active fibre. Not only do these new platforms have 
lower material costs but they allow significant 
consolidation of historic platforms which yields 
a paradigm shift in business simplification and 
therefore fixed costs.
CHIEF ExECuTIvE’S REvIEW
SuMMARY OF ChIEF ExECuTIvE’S REvIEw
	MARKET ShARE GROwING IN EACh SECTOR, MICRO , MEdICAL ANd MARKING
	50 NEw CuSTOMERS AddEd IN ThE LAST SIx MONThS
	NEw PROduCT PLATFORMS RECEIvEd wELL b Y CuSTOMERS
	GROwTh IN ASIA ALMOST 400%
“ SPI AChIEvEd MANY OF ITS GOALS IN 2007 ANd 
PARTICuLARLY AT ThE ENd OF ThE YEAR FuRThER 
CONTRACT wINS SuCCESSFuLLY CREATEd POSITIvE 
buSINESS MOMENTuM ON whICh TO buILd.” 07
SPI Lasers plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 
marking : spi has developed a leading 
pulsed laser product based on a different 
architecture to its leading competitor. whilst the 
issues encountered during 2007 delayed its general 
availability in the market, i am pleased to report 
a successful new platform introduction took place 
towards the end of the year, again ahead of schedule. 
this new platform introduction not only addressed 
the quality issues but significantly lowered the cost 
of production. in d ecember we announced 
several large contract wins for this product family. 
success in marking has been allied with the 
penetration of new and diverse markets, such 
as solar cell production, utilising the advanced 
performance attributes of the standard product. 
some of these sectors will take time to develop 
into volume, and may require some modest product 
customisation to secure significant design wins for 
the second half of 2008.
A NOTE ON TEChNOLOGY
at the heart of our products, and indeed our 
business, lie our core competencies of optical 
fibre production and laser engineering. A highlight 
of 2007 was the improvement in the raw efficiency 
of our fibre and associated optical sub-assemblies. 
t his has enabled novel architectures and 
end product designs to be deployed. it is these 
improvements, along with the support of our 
strategic suppliers, which have enabled such 
dramatic shifts in the production costs of our 
whole portfolio. in developing the new building 
blocks, we have also kept an eye to the future, 
ensuring that the new platforms are fully scalable 
to higher powers which will enable future entry 
into new markets.
LOOKING AhEAd
w e see opportunities for improved top line 
performance across our sectors and geographic 
markets. the rate of new customer wins 
in marking is particularly pleasing with over 
50 new customers added in the last six months 
and we have already announced the continued 
expansion of existing verticals for example 
securing a further contract win in the medical 
sector. like many other companies in our sector, 
however, the uncertain capital equipment market, 
notably in the us , could disproportionately affect 
our micro business. 
t he fundamental objective for the g roup 
in the year ahead is to achieve profitability before 
we exit the year and to maintain a positive cash 
position. in order to underpin this we will 
concentrate on three fundamentals:
  prioritising new business consistent with 
our margin objectives;
  continued variable cost reductions enabled 
by our new platforms; and
  reducing our infrastructure costs consistent 
with the demands of the business.
spi achieved many of its goals in 2007 and 
particularly at the end of the year further contract 
wins successfully created positive business momentum 
on which we continue to build. the whole group 
has developed considerably and i am looking 
forward, with renewed confidence, to dealing 
with the future challenges of growth and business 
maturity and to achieving our objective of profitability 
in the last quarter.
dR. dA vId P ARKER
CHIEF ExECuTIvE OFFICER
1 april 2008
medical aestHetics
Fibre laser technology from SPI has more to offer than just  
industrial applications. 
There has been significant growth in the use of lasers in the area 
of medical aesthetics: techniques such as thermal skin rejuvenation 
and wrinkle removal are becoming widely available, enabled in 
part by fibre lasers.
where previous technologies were limited by cost, unpleasant side 
effects and long recovery times, the SPI laser when incorporated 
into our customers’ systems, revolutionises the way we think about, 
and deal with, scarring and facial skin ageing.
marking
SPI Lasers’ technology leadership is helping to transform the way 
companies identify and track their products. Previously, placing 
unique marks on products or components was greatly limited by 
the type of marks and a potential for a lack of permanence. In a 
world where counterfeit products could endanger the commercial 
viability of an organisation, the ability to cost-effectively make 
unique, complex, permanent and inert identification marks is, 
quite literally, changing the face of products.
The fibre laser from SPI is also playing a key role in the development 
of many consumer products. w here complex layer combinations such 
as metal and plastic require material removal in order, for example, 
to produced keypads – the unique properties of SPI’s technology 
enables increased processing accuracy, precision and speed. 
