 04
SPI Lasers plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 
PERFORMANCE DURING 2006
The twelve months ended 31 December 2006 
was SPI’s ﬁrst full ﬁnancial year as an AIM quoted 
company. It was another period of signiﬁcant 
progress, with turnover doubling for the second 
successive year. Whilst the business advanced 
broadly to plan in the ﬁrst half of the year, the 
Group confronted process related issues during 
the middle of the year that slowed its momentum.
The difﬁculties encountered in power-scaling the 
GTWave ﬁbre resulted in a delay of around three 
months and in additional costs. Nevertheless, at 
the end of year 2006 the Group is back on track 
and turnover is in line with market expectations. 
Fourth quarter product revenues exceeded those 
for the whole of 2005, and the business entered 
2007 with a record order book.
FINANCING
During the ﬁnancial year, the Group raised a total 
of £6.6 million in equity and debt after expenses. 
A placing in August 2006 raised £4.8 million 
(net) and was supported by a wide range of our 
existing investors, as well as some new shareholders. 
In December 2006 ETV Capital S.A. (Luxembourg) 
provided the Company with £1.8 million through 
a convertible loan. Further details are provided in 
the Financial Review and will be covered in the 
Report and Accounts.
In addition, SPI has completed a further equity 
fundraising in February 2007 of £10 million 
(net). This again was well supported by existing 
shareholders and a number of new investors.
THE BOARD
In November 2006 it was announced that 
David Shrigley was stepping down as 
non-executive Director to pursue other interests. 
Dave initially represented one of our venture 
capital investors, but since flotation he 
demonstrated the value of his wide experience in 
a truly independent manner. I would like to thank 
Dave for his guidance and contribution at an 
important stage of the Group’s development.
Equally, I am grateful to the continuing six members 
of the Board for their valuable insights and 
unfailing support over the past twelve months.
EMPLOYEES
As already discussed, 2006 was not without its 
challenges for the business. SPI has managed 
successfully to overcome these issues and ﬁnish 
the year in a strong position. This is due principally 
to the unstinting efforts of management and staff.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
SUMMARY OF CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
  TURNOVER DOUBLED FOR THE SECOND SUCCESSIVE YEAR 
  FOURTH QUARTER PRODUCT REVENUES EXCEEDED THOSE FOR THE WHOLE OF 2005 
  TECHNICAL PROBLEMS RESOLVED
  FIBRE LASER MARKET CONTINUES TO DEVELOP RAPIDLY
  BALANCE SHEET STRENGTHENED
“ CUSTOMER INTEREST IN OUR PRODUCTS REMAINS STRONG. 
THE CORE TASK FOR 2007 IS TO ACHIEVE THE EFFECTIVE 
SCALING UP OF OUR PRODUCTION AT LOWER COSTS.” 05
SPI Lasers plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 
PROSPECTS
The ﬁbre laser market continues to develop rapidly, 
attracting both new customers and displacing 
longer-established laser technologies in an ever 
wider range of applications. The competition to 
share in this opportunity is certain to intensify, 
but the technical barriers to successful market 
entry are signiﬁcant and SPI remains well 
positioned with its product offering.
As promised last year, SPI managed to sustain 
its earlier momentum with a broader range of 
products and across a greater number of market 
verticals. Customer interest in our products 
remains strong. The core task for 2007 is to 
achieve the effective scaling up of our production 
at lower costs.
GRAHAM MEEK
CHAIRMAN
8 MARCH 2007
CUTTING
With a strong ethos of product innovation, technology leadership 
and customer focus, SPI Lasers is enabling the resolution of 
some of today’s most challenging and commercially sensitive 
manufacturing issues. 
Where existing technology has previously limited the precision 
cutting of miniature parts, the ﬁbre laser has enabled manufacturers 
to produce ground breaking microscopic cut detail in some of the 
world’s smallest coronary stents.
The highly competitive electronics sector continues to leverage the 
enormous beneﬁts of SPI’s technology, for example, superior cut 
quality of solder mask stencils for circuit boards. 
WELDING
Most people, when they think lasers, think welding. And this is true of 
the ﬁbre laser from SPI. However, due to SPI’s innovative approach, 
it is now possible to weld various materials, including ones that are 
dissimilar to one another, at incredibly small dimensions.
Previous welding tools, including traditional lasers simply could 
not achieve the diminutive yet robust bond that the ﬁbre laser 
produces. Not only is the ﬁbre laser playing an integral part in the 
miniaturisation of consumer products, the technology is making a 
massive contribution to the quest for sustainable energy sources.
