 06
SPI Lasers plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 
INTRODUCTION
I am pleased to report that the end of 2006 saw 
the Group executing well on the commercial 
front. The year ﬁnished with a signiﬁcant 
improvement in the sales run-rate, a strong order 
book and a record level of forward visibility. This 
return of momentum was particularly pleasing 
given the process related issues encountered 
in the middle of the year and sets the scene for 
signiﬁcant growth expectations in 2007. The 
post-interims revision of market expectations of 
full year 2006 sales of £7 million still represented 
a top line growth of 100% over 2005. Meeting 
this was a key objective for the second half, on 
which the Group delivered. After resolving the 
technical problems, the next key objective was to 
bring to market the new products that underpin 
the growth potential of 2007 and beyond. This 
was also achieved towards the end of 2006.
In summary, 2006 was a year of meeting and 
tackling challenges head on to ensure that the 
momentum required for sustained growth was 
generated. We believe that we achieved this and 
in doing so there are a number of signiﬁcant 
areas to highlight:
MARKETS, CUSTOMERS AND CHANNEL
The laser industry is a large and established 
market. During 2006, ﬁbre lasers continued to be 
more widely recognised as tools that deliver real 
advantages for a range of applications and many 
end-users. I believe that SPI’s successes to date 
as a supplier of industrial grade products is proof 
of this maturing process.
SPI’s customers are mainly system integrators 
building end-user systems that incorporate our 
lasers as the optical source. In some cases these 
integrators are part of the end-user entity, but in 
the majority of cases they are an intermediary. 
Consequently, we have invested heavily in creating 
awareness of the many advantages of ﬁbre lasers 
in the end-user community to create “pull through” 
in the sales channel. I am pleased to report that 
this strategy is continuing to be successful.
In 2006 the Group continued to gain momentum 
in the MICRO sector. Of note within this sector 
was the further progress we made in penetrating 
the medical device manufacturing market, where 
the ﬁbre laser’s ability to cut and weld ﬁne feature 
size items rapidly and with high quality has been 
a differentiator against traditional lasers. Initial 
successes were gained in stent cutting (a stent is a 
spring-like structure that is expanded within veins 
and arteries) leading to a number of stent industry 
leaders now deploying SPI products and with 
our largest single deployment being in excess of 70 
lasers. Having established ourselves in this sub-sector, 
we are now engaged with a number of other 
customers and working on new applications.
This reﬂects our distinct market approach: excel 
at an application and then drive penetration. 
Corresponding with SPI’s growth, we have 
succeeded in adding further market verticals 
in automotive, consumer electronics and 
semi-conductors. To support this, we have 
invested in our channel resources, both direct 
and through specialist distribution partners, and 
established applications and support capabilities 
in the UK, the USA and, more recently, China.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
SUMMARY OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
   STRONG FINISH TO THE YEAR AND MOMENTUM RESTORED
  SUSTAINED PROGRESS IN THE MICRO SECTOR
  RAPID TAKE UP OF NEW PRODUCTS IN THE MARKING SECTOR
  NEW GROWTH SECTOR ESTABLISHED IN MEDICAL AESTHETICS
  GROUP ENTERED 2007 WITH STRONG ORDER BOOK
“ THE EXCITING CHALLENGE FOR 2007 AND BEYOND IS 
THEREFORE TO DELIVER ON THE INCREASING NUMBER 
OF OPPORTUNITIES BY DEVELOPING NEW PRODUCTS 
AND ACCELERATING THOSE ALREADY INTRODUCED.” 07
SPI Lasers plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 
Towards the end of 2006, we began shipping our 
pulsed laser products for the MARKING sector 
securing several supply contracts, and establishing 
a strong order book with a number of customers.
We identiﬁed and established ourselves within 
a new sector, namely MEDICAL AESTHETICS, 
wherein the ﬁbre laser is used as a direct tool 
for cosmetic enhancement and correction. The 
majority of our 2006 sales growth in Asia came 
from this new sector.
All of these activities are consistent with our 
strategy of utilising our specialised optical ﬁbre 
capability to establish a technology platform that 
can be sold into multiple markets. We continue 
to strive for products that deliver the end-user 
beneﬁts in performance and cost of ownership 
that industry watchers believe will fuel the rapid 
growth of ﬁbre lasers.
OPERATIONAL
The 2006 year started well with sales of the 
products introduced in 2005 meeting the ﬁrst 
half market expectations of £3 million which 
was almost 90% of the full year 2005 result. 
As previously reported, towards the end of the 
ﬁrst half the Group experienced several process 
related technical issues in relation to power-scaling 
the GTWave ﬁbre. The equipment modiﬁcations 
that were required to resolve the underlying 
problems were completed during the second half 
and have since proved themselves to be reliable.
The cumulative effect of these issues resulted in a 
delay in completion of the development, market 
introduction and production ramp up of both 
higher power and pulsed lasers for the MICRO 
and MARKING sectors respectively. It was the 
resolution of these issues, and the subsequent 
progress towards completion of the associated 
product developments that enabled the strong 
sales performance in the ﬁnal quarter of the year.
In particular we achieved volume shipments of 
our novel pulsed laser for the MARKING sector, 
which is designed to operate faster than the 
competitive offering and the new 200W laser 
for the MICRO sector, which is facilitating several 
new applications in both small feature welding 
as well as cutting.
The Group also made progress in developing the 
basic technology required to allow scale up of 
power in a reliable manner. This was not only 
essential for the products released in 2006, but 
the developments carried out will allow future 
product lines to be released, for example,  
into the MACRO sector.
During 2006 there were a number of other 
initiatives designed to manage the growth of the 
Group in a more reliable and predictable manner. 
These included both human resource and 
infrastructure projects.
OUTLOOK AND KEY EVENTS
In 2007 we expect to sustain the momentum built 
towards the end of 2006. We intend to expand 
our sales channel and manufacturing resources 
to enable us to increase output of the established 
products and address multiple new market verticals. 
The new 200W product will broaden our offering 
in the MICRO sector. This, combined with the 
general release of our MARKING laser and the 
addition of products for MEDICAL AESTHETICS, 
should more than double the size of the market 
available to the Group. We also expect that by 
leveraging our customer funded R&D and through 
organic investment we will make strides towards 
the commercialisation of our technology in the 
MACRO sector for later years.
At the time of the placing in January 2007, our 
order book (including sales made) for the ﬁrst half 
of 2007 stood at £5.0 million and was £0.5 million 
for the second half of the year. I am pleased to 
report that we have continued to make progress 
on this front and now have secured orders 
(including sales made) of nearly £7 million over 
the year. What is particularly pleasing is that most 
of the increase has come from new business wins 
rather than the conversion of framework agreements. 
Given this progress, we remain conﬁdent in 
delivering on market expectations for the year.
The exciting challenge for 2007 and beyond is 
therefore to deliver on the increasing number of 
opportunities by developing new products and 
accelerating those already introduced, to take 
advantage of the expanding market and to do so 
whilst improving the cost structure of the business, 
as we move towards proﬁtability.
DR. DAVID PARKER
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
8 MARCH 2007
MEDICAL AESTHETICS
Fibre laser technology from SPI has more to offer than just  
industrial applications. 
There has been signiﬁcant growth in the use of lasers in the area 
of medical aesthetics: techniques such as thermal skin rejuvenation 
and wrinkle removal are becoming widely available, enabled in 
part by ﬁbre lasers.
Where previous technologies were limited by cost, unpleasant side 
effects and long recovery times, the SPI laser when incorporated 
into our customers’ systems revolutionises the way we think about, 
and deal with, scarring and facial skin ageing.
MARKING
SPI Lasers technology leadership is helping to transform the way 
companies identify and track their products. Previously, placing 
unique marks on products or components was greatly limited by 
the type of marks and a potential for a lack of permanence. In a 
world where counterfeit products could endanger the commercial 
viability of an organisation, the ability to cost-effectively make 
unique, complex, permanent and inert identiﬁcation marks is, 
quite literally, changing the face of products.
The ﬁbre laser from SPI is also playing a key role in the development 
of many consumer products. Where complex layer combinations such 
as metal and plastic require material removal in order, for example, 
to produced keypads – the unique properties of SPI’s technology 
enables increased processing accuracy, precision and speed. 
