 4 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009
An interview with  
Mark Vernon
Chief Executive Officer
Sharpening  
our edge
What makes Spirax Sarco different?
We are a niche industrial engineering group that supplies  
a very broad base of customers around the world in a  
wide range of industries. We concentrate on assisting our 
customers achieve process efficiency, increased production 
output, energy savings and regulatory compliance. We go to 
market through an extensive network of outstanding local 
sales and service engineers that are highly trained and 
singularly focused on providing the knowledge and expertise 
to understand the challenges facing steam and pump users. 
Our application and systems knowledge, breadth of products 
and services, experience and global presence all enable us 
to offer the most extensive range of engineered solutions to 
our customers. The position of Spirax Sarco and  
Watson-Marlow as world leaders is founded on our  
long-held strategy of investing for growth both organically 
and by complementary acquisitions.
The Group is very international. We have 49 operating 
companies in 34 countries around the world. Our 
headquarters are based in the UK and we have sizeable 
manufacturing and selling operations on nearly every 
continent. Our manufacturing operations are strategically 
located in all key market regions with major facilities in the 
UK, France, Italy, USA, Brazil, Argentina, and China. We  
also manufacture in South Africa, Mexico, Netherlands,  
India, Germany, Sweden, Korea and Denmark. Amongst  
our competitors, we have generally been first to build a  
direct selling and trading organisation in new markets and, 
within the past year, we acquired our Turkish distributor, 
giving us a direct presence in this important country that 
boasts the world’s 16th largest economy.
The resilience of our business was readily visible in the past 
year, as our total sales at constant currency declined less 
than 7%, as compared to falls of typically 15% to 20% or 
more for many other international industrial engineering 
businesses. This resilience stems from a large portion of 
our revenues being derived from product replacements and 
spares, the diverse range of industries served, the breadth 
of product solutions we bring to our customers and good 
geographic distribution of sales, well spread between 
developing and developed markets.
We serve a very broad range of industries including: foods, 
brewing & distilling, dairies, oil refining & petrochemicals, 
chemicals, pharmaceuticals, textiles, fine chemicals, mining, 
printing, water & wastewater treatment and many other 
general process industries. We also work with hospitals and 
commercial buildings by supplying solutions for sterilisation, 
space heating, hot water generation and laundering. It is 
important to note that no single industry represents more 
than 10% of sales and no single customer accounts for more 
than 1% of sales – in short, our sales are very well spread.
We have remained focused on our niche businesses and 
their development through geographic expansion, new 
product developments, acquisitions and expanding our 
range of products and service solutions. This has enabled us 
to increase market share and to generate steady, profitable 
growth for a long period of time, evidenced by our excellent 
42 year dividend record. Although we are the market 
leader in both our businesses, there remain considerable 
opportunities available to us in our fragmented markets.
How does Spirax Sarco create value? 
The Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow businesses are 
anchored on the philosophy of understanding the detail 
of the customers’ processes and the ability to apply the 
properly engineered solutions. T o do this we go to market 
using mostly direct sales people – about 70% of our sales 
are generated through our direct selling approach. In doing 
so we form strong, long-term customer relationships. The 
Group employs nearly 1,200 direct sales and service people 
working in 56 countries in the world. 
Our sales people are highly skilled in both product 
applications and, perhaps even more importantly, in system 
understanding and troubleshooting for unique customer 
applications and industrial processes. We train our sales 
engineers in our 38 training centres located around the world,  Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 5
Sharpening our edge  
through research and 
development
We are increasing our investment in 
research and development.
Our new R&D Centre being created in 
Cheltenham, will enhance our capability 
to offer customers innovative solutions 
for controlling and conditioning steam. 6 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009
An interview with  
Mark Vernon continued
Chief Executive Officer
Sharpening our edge  
through being the best in  
our field
Spirax Sarco beat international 
competition to win the 2009 IChemE 
Innovation and Excellence Award in 
Energy, with a Flash Recovery Energy 
Management Equipment (FREME) 
system that enables customers to 
recover waste heat. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 7
most of which are equipped with live steam that facilitates 
hands-on training. These centres are also used to train our 
customers’ technical staff. 
This product and systems application knowledge, combined 
with local availability of products, engineered packages 
and on-site services, enables our customers to achieve 
meaningful energy savings, comply with increasingly 
stringent health, safety and environmental regulations,  
reduce emissions and achieve more efficient processes. 
It is not our products alone that provide the value to our 
customers; it is the application of our extensive knowledge.
How is Spirax Sarco managing the business through this 
difficult economic period?
Like other industrial businesses, we took early action and 
made the appropriate decisions to reduce our operating 
costs. Whilst needing to address the abrupt decline in 
economic activity, we largely protected our global network  
of highly skilled and trained sales engineers. 
As a result, we reduced our workforce by 7% through  
the year, most of which came as part of an announced  
5% headcount reduction in early 2009, with the balance  
coming from natural attrition throughout the year. Most of the 
headcount reductions were in back-office support functions 
and manufacturing. Additionally, our local operating company 
management teams were vigilant in controlling other operating 
costs. The announced general headcount reduction was the 
first ever for Spirax Sarco – indicative of the unprecedented 
global economic downturn – but it was managed effectively 
by our management teams around the world. 
We took steps to size our manufacturing operation in 
Cheltenham, not only for the decline in volume resulting  
from the global economic recession but also in anticipation  
of the volume transfer to our new manufacturing plant in 
China. Additionally, we recently announced a reduction in  
our manufacturing footprint at Châtellerault, France, also in  
line with our global manufacturing strategy.
We continued to invest in key growth programmes for the 
future. In China, we selectively added sales people for the 
steam business. We also invested in our Watson-Marlow 
business to continue developing new markets, adding  
sales people in Russia and Mexico. We believe that our  
sales teams are well positioned to handle the eventual 
rebound in our end markets. Also, we increased the  
amount of direct R&D investment, virtually the only area  
of the business that was allowed increased expenditure.  
New product development is a key activity that will drive 
longer-term growth and therefore we have continued to 
invest through the downturn. We have also sustained  
capital expenditure at a high level in the year as we  
invest in delivering our manufacturing strategy.
What are the key business drivers and trends?
Our business is well spread geographically, across the 
product range and over a diverse range of industries.  
The following key factors have the primary influence  
on the underlying demand in our markets:
Global economic growth. • 
Industrial production and investment. • 
Capacity utilisation. • 
Energy costs. • 
Increasing customer outsourcing of design  • 
and maintenance.
Regulatory legislation (eg, emissions, hygienic  • 
standards, plant safety).
Looking ahead how do you plan to take the business 
forward?
Our business strategy remains focused on achieving  
long-term, steady and profitable sales growth. The industrial 
and commercial steam-using market is highly fragmented 
and although Spirax Sarco is the market leader, we still have 
significant growth opportunities. 
“ It is not our products alone that provide the 
value to our customers; it is the application 
of our extensive knowledge.” 8 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009
“ Increasing Watson-Marlow’s capability 
in offering high purity... particularly in the 
biopharm sector.”
An interview with  
Mark Vernon continued
Chief Executive Officer
Sharpening our edge  
by investing in our  
manufacturing processes
We completed the construction of a 
completely sterile £6.3 million silicone 
tubing extrusion plant in Falmouth, 
enabling Watson-Marlow to offer 
high purity pumping solutions to its 
customers in the biopharm sector. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 9
We believe the underlying industry drivers are favourable for 
long-term growth. For the steam business, energy prices are 
at historic highs and the emphasis on reducing emissions 
is becoming increasingly important; these factors provide 
a nice tailwind. We are reaping the benefits of our solutions 
approach to problem solving as customers increase the 
outsourcing of design and maintenance; customers are 
looking for simple, single-source transactions to solve their 
local maintenance, operations, product quality and capacity 
expansion issues. Our ability to effectively bundle a wide 
range of products and pre-fabricated engineered packages 
backed up by our installation and commissioning services,  
is simply the best and is unmatched by any competitor.  
We increasingly expand on a simple troubleshooting sales 
call, to audit an entire steam system and provide a range  
of engineered solutions in a single transaction that  
customers value. 
We are widening our range of products and site services  
to expand our market reach. Our technically expert direct 
sales force allows us to leverage our brands into new 
products and applications. This increases the amount  
of plant spend that we can capture in small-scale capital 
projects and maintenance activities that are at the heart of 
our business. There remains good growth potential, whether 
in the developing economies of Asia and South America or  
in the large and more mature markets of western Europe  
and North America, as we apply tailored market  
development strategies.
One of our major tasks at our Watson-Marlow business 
is to educate customers about the intrinsic advantages 
of peristaltic pumps so that they will increasingly be used 
to solve difficult pumping problems. The product range 
is being progressively widened and developed, making 
use of improved electronics and materials to broaden the 
addressable market by taking business from other pump 
types. All these factors make peristaltics one of the fastest 
growing sectors of the global positive displacement pump 
market. As we widen the possible applications for our 
pumps, we see increasing opportunities, including hygienic 
applications in pharmaceuticals, biotechnology and the  
food industries. 
We continue to make complementary bolt-on acquisitions 
to build our product portfolio, introduce new technologies 
and speed access to geographic markets. During 2009 
we acquired MasoSine, a supplier of unique sinusoidal 
pumps that extends the application range of our existing 
line of Watson-Marlow hygienic pumps. We also acquired 
the business of our Turkish distributor, Inter Valf Sanaya 
ve Ticaret, to build a direct presence in this important and 
developing market.
How is Spirax Sarco sharpening its edge?
The Group is making a significant investment in 
modernising its manufacturing processes and facilities 
to improve efficiency and reduce operating costs. We 
are midway through a four-year £50 million capital 
investment programme, having recently completed the 
new tube extrusion facility in Falmouth, England. The new 
manufacturing plant in China will begin production late 
Q2 2010. The consolidation of the three manufacturing 
facilities onto one site at our major manufacturing location in 
Cheltenham, England will be mostly completed by year-end 
2010. Some production has already been transferred into 
the first refurbished buildings and we should see the cost 
reduction, efficiency and stock reduction benefits from this 
site consolidation starting in 2011.
Despite the challenging market environment in 2009, we 
increased our investment in R&D by over 20% and have 
begun to generate a stronger flow of new products whilst 
shortening the time to market. There are a number of  
exciting new product development programmes underway  
in both the steam business and Watson-Marlow, and we 
expect new products to make an increasing contribution to 
sales growth. We were particularly pleased to win the UK’s 
IChemE 2009 ‘Innovation and Excellence Award in Energy’ 
with a packaged Flash Recovery Energy Management 
Equipment system. The Board has approved the creation of 
a new R&D development and test centre at our Cheltenham 
manufacturing site that will increase our testing capability to 
much higher live steam temperatures, pressures and flow 
rates – we believe this new test centre will be the world’s 
largest and most advanced facility of its type.
We are taking advantage of our global purchasing power  
to consolidate purchasing volumes with fewer key suppliers 
of our cast, wrought and forged metals. This has resulted in 
material cost benefits in the past several years, and we expect 
further benefit in 2010 to our materials and freight costs.
We have developed online based tools to improve the 
technical training of our sales engineers around the world 
and speed up their development process. Additionally, we 
are implementing information collection and sharing software 
to improve our ability to utilise application knowledge and 
provide a forum to accommodate greater knowledge sharing 
amongst work groups across our global sales network.
People lie at the core of every business and we have high 
expectations of performance from our people. We have 
taken steps to upgrade the quality of professional human 
resource leadership in guiding our progression to a more 
performance-based culture throughout the organisation. We 
have articulated a concise set of core values and leadership 
competencies that are being implemented worldwide.
 
Mark Vernon Chief Executive Officer
