 Dear Shareholder
2004 was a year of considerable progress across a broad front for Spirent. The return to growth of the
Performance Analysis division of Spirent Communications is an important milestone and is a result of our
long term strategy of focusing on next-generation telecoms technologies. The Service Assurance division
still faces challenges as it undergoes a reinvigoration of its activities and we have taken actions to position
it for future growth. Our Network Products group had another good year while the Systems group’s results
reﬂect the difﬁcult nature of its market at present. In addition, having restructured the balance sheet and
met certain ﬁnancial requirements in relation to our borrowing terms, we have restored strategic ﬂexibility
to the Company.
I am delighted that Anders Gustafsson joined us as Chief Executive after the retirement of Nicholas Brookes.
His exceptional skill set is ideally suited to the challenges ahead as we work to grow our communications
activities. We have been fortunate in adding as a non-executive director Kurt Hellström who brings great
strengths in the critical telecoms area. I believe we now have a Board that is well aligned with our strategic
priorities. I am immensely grateful to My Chung, who resigned from the Board during the year, and to
Richard Moley, who is retiring from the Board at the 2005 Annual General Meeting, for their dedicated
service to the Company.
We are fully compliant with the requirements under the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance and
considerable efforts have been expended in respect of compliance with the applicable provisions of the US
Sarbanes-Oxley Act and in keeping the Company in line with good practice in corporate governance and
social responsibility issues. We continue to give a high priority to maintaining high standards in these areas.
The achievements of 2004 have made your Company stronger and well poised to make further progress.
Yours faithfully
John Weston CBE
Chairman
2 Spirent plc Annual Report 2004
Chairman’s letter
