 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 04
Welcome to our 
2013 report
Our
marketplace
Our business
model
Our business
model in action
Our
strategy
Our
KPIs
Our
structure
Chairman’s  
statement
About us
Strategic report continued
Chairman’s statement
Performance and dividend
Sales increased by over 4% to £689.4 million 
(2012: £661.7 million). Organic sales growth 
was 4%, continuing the trend reported in the 
first half year. Sales growth was strongest 
in Asia Pacific, followed by Watson-Marlow 
and EMEA; sales in the Americas were 
marginally lower. Overall currency effects 
were negligible.
Operating profit increased by 1 1% to 
£151.6 million (2012: £136.2 million), with 
an outstanding improvement in EMEA. 
The operating profit margin rose from 
20.6% to a record 22.0%. Net finance 
costs reduced and pre-tax profit was 12% 
higher at £151. 1 million (2012: £134.9 million). 
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 
14% to 138.8p (2012: 122.2p).
Cash generation was once again very 
strong with good cash conversion and we 
finished the year with a net cash balance 
of £16 million, which was after payment 
of the 100p per share special dividend of 
£78 million.
The interim dividend was raised by 13% to 
18.0p per share, which was paid in November 
2013. The Board is recommending an 
increase in the final dividend of 1 1 % to 41.0p 
per share payable on 30th May 2014 to 
shareholders on the register at 2nd May 
2014. The total ordinary dividend for the year 
is therefore increased by 1 1 % to 59.0p per 
share (2012: 53.0p per share).
A full review of our financial performance 
commences on page 28. 
The Board recognises the contribution made 
by our many exceptional people around the 
world who exemplify the Company’s core 
values. On behalf of the Board, I would like 
to express our gratitude to all our employees 
worldwide for their hard work and 
commitment throughout the year and for 
their individual contributions, which together 
culminated in the good results achieved 
in 2013.
Prospects
We have a robust and resilient business 
model built around our direct sales 
approach, delivering solutions to meet 
our customers’ energy saving, process 
efficiency and sustainability challenges, 
with a high proportion of sales coming from 
customers’ operating and maintenance 
budgets. Steam is universal as an energy 
source, used in processes in a diverse 
range of industries across the world, and our 
markets therefore reflect general economic 
activity and rates of industrial production.
Our assumption is that markets will continue 
to exhibit low levels of growth but with 
modest overall improvement through 2014. 
We remain focused on our strategic priorities 
to generate our own growth, through 
broadening our global presence, capitalising 
on our investment in new products and 
innovation, increasing market share and 
delivering application specific solutions 
through our teams of highly trained sales 
and service engineers. Our fundamental 
strengths and growth strategies give the 
Board confidence that the Group will make 
further progress in 2014, although stronger 
sterling and currency weakness in a number 
of emerging markets has provided a strong 
headwind in the early months of this year.
Governance and Board changes
The Board is ultimately responsible for 
ensuring that the Group successfully 
implements its strategies and achieves its 
objectives of generating shareholder value 
through consistent and sustainable growth 
in earnings and dividends. The Board and 
its Committees operate to the highest 
ethical standards and corporate governance 
practices, and demonstrates transparency 
through fair, balanced and understandable 
reporting. Our full governance review 
commences on page 56. 
During 2013, Mark Vernon announced his 
intention to retire as Group Chief Executive 
on 15th January 2014. On behalf of the 
Board and shareholders, I would like to 
convey our sincere thanks to Mark for 
his significant contribution in guiding the 
Company through a challenging economic 
period and meaningfully improving on the 
Group’s record of strong and consistent 
growth, and we wish him well on his 
retirement back home in his native America.
The Board was delighted to appoint Nick 
Anderson as Group Chief Executive in 
January 2014. Nick joined the Company 
in September 201 1, bringing his broad 
experience in the industrial engineering 
industry to the Group, with an emphasis 
on international business operations and 
sales management.
Structure of the Annual Report 
and Accounts
The Board welcomes the move to improve 
corporate reporting and the 2013 Annual 
Report and Accounts fully embraces the 
new regulatory and disclosure requirements. 
The Annual Report and Accounts now leads 
with a Strategic report explaining our market 
place, our business model, our strategy and 
our performance in a clear and integrated 
way. The Governance section explains 
the detailed work of the Board and its 
Committees, and presents a Remuneration 
policy report for consideration by 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 
on 20th May 2014. We hope that you enjoy 
reading this Annual Report and Accounts 
and that it is helpful to your understanding 
of our business.
“ I am pleased to report further good 
progress in 2013, achieving record 
sales and profit.”
Bill Whiteley 
Chairman
