 In 2005 Spirent was transformed into a focused communications
business. In the first half of the year, we carried out major
restructuring within the Service Assurance division. In December
we announced the proposed disposal of the HellermannTyton
Division and our share of its associated companies to funds
controlled by Doughty Hanson & Co Limited. We believe the
consideration of approximately £288.9 million, at a cash
free/debt free equivalent value represents fair value for the
business and reflects its strong performance under our
management. As a result of this sale, the Group’s financial
position has been signiﬁcantly strengthened.
Following approval by shareholders at an Extraordinary General
Meeting held on 24 January 2006, the disposal was completed
on 15 February 2006.As previously indicated, the proceeds have
been used to repay the outstanding loan notes of £71.5 million
together with the make whole amount of £7.4 million and
associated swap break fees of £2.3 million. In addition, a special
contribution of £47.0 million has been made to substantially
fund the UK ﬁnal salary pension scheme and the Board intends
to return up to £50 million to shareholders through an on-
market share repurchase programme over the coming year.
To reﬂect the transformation of the Group, a proposal will be
made at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to rename
Spirent plc as Spirent Communications plc.
James Wyness will retire from the Board with effect from the
date of the 2006 Annual General Meeting and we would like to
thank him for his valuable contribution during his long service
as a non-executive director. Marcus Beresford will assume the
responsibilities of the senior independent director on Mr Wyness’
retirement.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our employees
for their contribution during this year of transformation.We wish
the employees of HellermannTyton success under their new
ownership and thank them for their contribution over many years.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 3
Chairman’s statement
In 2005 Spirent was transformed into a 
focused communications business.
John Weston CBE
Chairman
Operating profit/(loss) and return on sales are used by the Group as key measures of
operating performance and are stated in the text before the effect of material one-time
items, goodwill impairment and share-based payment so that period-on-period comparisons
are not distorted.
The HellermannTyton Division for the purposes of these results has been presented as a
discontinued operation and our financial results are presented and discussed for the
continuing Spirent Group, unless otherwise stated.
