 4
Spirent Communications plc
Annual Report 2008
Chief Executive Officer’s review
“Our role as leaders in test and measurement 
is to enable our customers to develop and 
validate their most successful products 
and services, not just from a technological 
perspective but also to ensure the greatest 
return on their investment.”
As we look back over the past year, customers in most 
segments of the telecommunications industry spent more 
cautiously as 2008 progressed. This was particularly true 
as the end of the fourth quarter approached. Network 
equipment manufacturers remained focused on 
profitability and growth as competition intensified. 
Restructuring across the telecommunications industry had 
an impact not only on major wireline network equipment 
manufacturers, but also mobile equipment suppliers and 
service providers. These factors are contributing to an 
uncertain outlook in 2009, although it is expected that 
research and development investments are unlikely to be 
reduced to the same levels as other areas of spending. 
While network operator’s wireless and Ethernet based 
broadband services experienced strong year-on-year 
growth, revenues for traditional wireline services declined. 
Service providers and network equipment manufacturers 
continue to invest in areas of growth aimed at ensuring 
their future. Test requirements in these growth areas have 
become even more critical as service providers are driven 
to deploy highly complex converged networks delivering 
differentiated voice, video, data and next-generation 
mobile networks, that include an array of GPS and location 
based services. The need for testing today’s, as well as 
tomorrow’s, equipment and networks is driven by the 
requirement to achieve uncompromised performance and 
scalability while delivering superior Quality of Service and 
Experience across the telecommunication infrastructure. 
Our global reach and world-class sales and service 
organisations allow Spirent to partner closely with our 
customers, enabling research and development 
efficiencies through leadership in test methodologies and 
automation. Spirent’s products and services serve a wide 
range of technologies, from wired to wireless, from 
development laboratories to live networks, from chip 
manufacturers to enterprise customers. Our strong 
customer relationships and broad solutions portfolio 
brings value to our customers and represent a distinct 
strategic advantage for Spirent. 
The financial performance of the Company reflects 
operational improvements undertaken through outsourced 
manufacturing, design improvements and focus on driving 
efficiency throughout all aspects of our business. Our cash 
generation and profitability allows us to invest in the areas 
most critical to the success of our customers. At the same 
time, we have an agile business which is able to react 
quickly to developments in our markets. In addition, we 
have already taken action in the first quarter of 2009 to 
reduce Spirent’s cost base by an annualised £8.2 million.
Major customers view 2009 as a year of decreased 
activity, with few seeing upside before 2010. Service 
providers and network equipment manufacturers will 
prioritise their overall spending but will invest in key 
technology development areas to ensure their future 
success. This will drive demand for our test solutions 
despite the challenging economic environment. 
Our role as leaders in test and measurement is to enable 
our customers to develop and validate their most 
successful products and services, not just from a 
technological perspective but also to ensure the greatest 
return on their investment. Spirent’s financial strength and 
diversified solutions portfolio will be key to defending and 
expanding our market share as well as developing new 
opportunities. We remain realistic in facing the challenges 
resulting from the current worldwide economic downturn 
and we believe that Spirent enters this year well placed to 
face the market uncertainties ahead.
Bill Burns
Chief Executive Officer
Bill Burns
Chief Executive Officer
Business review
