 2014 was a remarkable year for Spire 
Healthcare. Not only did we become 
a public company, but we also bought a 
hospital in Cheam (Greater London), opened 
our first cancer treatment centre in Bristol, 
finalised a new agreement with Bupa and 
reached the end of the two year industry-
wide investigation with the Competition 
and Markets Authority (CMA) – all while 
providing high-quality care to more patients 
than ever and achieving our highest patient 
and consultant satisfaction scores.
Chairman’s statement 
A remarkable year
T
his is Spire Healthcare’s first Annual 
Report following our successful 
Initial Public Offering (IPO) in July 
2014. We have been well received 
as a public company; the combination of a 
growing market and award-winning clinical 
outcomes, coupled with our diversified payor 
mix and strong investment strategy, has led 
to a high and sustained degree of interest 
from UK and international investors.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Our financial performance in 2014 was 
strong. Our seventh full successive year  
of growth resulted in total revenue of  
£856.0 million and an operating profit 
of £114.1 million*. We continue to invest 
significantly in new services, treatments, 
hospitals and equipment. In the last year, 
we have invested £105.1 million across 
these areas, developing further our key 
role in the UK healthcare economy.
Garry Watts
Chairman
* Operating profit, adjusted to add back exceptional items.
04
Strategic Report
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 GOVERNANCE
As part of the IPO, we appointed four 
experienced non-executive directors to our 
Board in June 2014. They have significantly 
strengthened the range of skills and 
expertise in the Boardroom and are helping 
to guide the Company through its inaugural 
phase as a public entity and into the future. 
John Gildersleeve, our Deputy Chairman, 
has extensive retail and plc experience, 
having served on the Boards of Lloyds 
TSB Bank plc, Vodafone Group plc and 
as a director of Tesco plc for 20 years 
until he retired in 2004. He is the current 
Chairman of The British Land Company plc. 
John chairs our Nomination Committee.
Dame Janet Husband brings with her 
a vast range of clinical expertise. She is 
Emeritus Professor of Radiology at the 
Institute of Cancer Research and currently 
serves on the Boards of Royal Marsden 
NHS Foundation Trust and Nuada Medical 
Group. Janet chairs our Clinical Governance 
and Safety Committee.
Robert Lerwill, an experienced finance 
director, currently serves as a non-executive 
director of ITC Limited, a large Indian 
conglomerate, and DJI (Holdings) plc.  
His depth of experience across health  
and telecommunications means he brings  
a unique perspective on our business.  
Robert chairs our Audit and Risk Committee.
Tony Bourne is familiar with the healthcare 
sector, having served as CEO at the British 
Medical Association for nine years. He 
is currently a non-executive director at 
various companies, including Barchester 
Healthcare and Bioquell Plc. Tony chairs 
the Remuneration Committee.
Further information on our governance 
can be found on pages 56 to 92.
DIVIDEND
As indicated in our IPO prospectus, we intend 
to adopt a progressive dividend policy based 
on a payout ratio of around 20% of profit 
after taxation each financial year, in the 
approximate proportions of one-third 
interim and two-thirds final, respectively, 
of the total annual dividend.
Subject to shareholder approval, the 
Company will pay a final dividend in respect 
of the current financial year of 1.8 pence per 
ordinary share. 
PEOPLE
I would like, on behalf of the Board, to  
extend a heartfelt thank you to everyone  
at Spire Healthcare for their extraordinary 
performance during 2014. Of particular  
note was the role of the management  
team during the flotation process. The  
float was achieved during tricky market 
conditions, and under strict timeframes. 
Their dedication reflects the distinct  
culture at Spire and supports our value  
of driving excellence.
Our hospital staff continued to deliver 
excellent care throughout the year, 
illustrated by further improvement in our 
patient satisfaction scores. It is our culture, 
supported by our values, that enables us 
to continue to deliver to those that matter 
most – our patients.
THE FUTURE
Our results this year have been strong. We 
have further developed and strengthened 
our relationships with insurers and the NHS, 
and we are confident of continued growth 
across all our payors. The success of the IPO 
has been pleasing; there will be challenges 
ahead, but I know, with the great team we 
have in place, we can look forward to the 
future with confidence.
Garry Watts
Chairman
With the great 
team we have 
in place, we can 
look forward 
to the future 
with confidence.
93%
Patient satisfaction (2013: 92%)
92%
of staff believe what they do makes 
a positive difference (2013: 91%) 
£105.1m
invested in 2014 (including St Anthony’s 
acquisition) (2013: £53.7 million) 
05
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014
