 Communications
Spirent Communications is a global provider of performance analysis
and service assurance solutions that enable the development and
deployment of next-generation networking technologies.
The Performance Analysis division develops testing solutions 
for a broad range of communications technologies critical to the
development of equipment and deployment of next-generation
networks. Our systems test wireline and wireless equipment,
including core and metro terabit routers, broadband access devices,
local area network switches and routers, 3G wireless handsets,
Internet telephony and web applications and security. Our systems
enable customers to emulate large-scale networks, introduce
impairments and stress test equipment to ensure maximum
performance and conformance to industry standards. We also provide
a range of professional support services to assist customers with their
testing needs.
The Service Assurance division provides network monitoring and
management systems for telecoms service providers to assure 
the quality of their high bandwidth services. Our systems enable 
the efﬁcient delivery of leased line, DSL and IP services. The division
provides operations support systems software, remote test probes,
network test access systems and support and maintenance services.
Network Products
We are a developer and manufacturer of innovative solutions for
fastening, identiﬁcation, protection and connectivity in electrical 
and communications networks marketed under the global brand
HellermannTyton.
HellermannTyton designs and manufactures a broad range of 
high-grade nylon ties, clips, channels and ﬁxings for fastening 
cables and wires in a broad range of applications. We also produce
products with value added identiﬁcation and security features.
Our heatshrink insulation, convoluted tubing and cable covering
products provide insulation and physical protection for wires 
and cables. We are a market leader in systems for the automated
application of cable ﬁxings and identiﬁcation printing and 
application systems.
We also produce a range of products used in the installation of 
local area and wide area communications networks such as raceways,
ducting, racks, patch panels and modular jacks.
Systems
Our Systems group comprises PG Drives Technology, a leading
supplier of sophisticated electronic control systems for specialist
electrical vehicles in the mobility and industrial markets.
PG Drives Technology develops power control systems for use in 
a variety of specialist electrically powered vehicles. These include
medical vehicles such as powered wheelchairs and mobility scooters 
as well as small industrial vehicles such as ﬂoor cleaning vehicles 
and aerial access platforms. Our systems allow the user to control
the direction and speed of the vehicle as well as controlling other
aspects of the vehicle’s functions, including seating or platform
position, lights, turn indicators and vehicle diagnostics.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 1
Our business at a glance
