 Overview 
Turnover of £558.9 million and operating proﬁt
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
of £50.5 million were 30 per cent and 55 per cent
below our results for 2001, respectively, but all 
our operating groups generated operating proﬁt 
and cash in 2002. In the ﬁrst half of the year we
delivered a resilient performance despite generally
depressed market conditions and continuing
declines in spending by our major telecoms
customers. However a drop in capital expenditure
by US network service providers (NSPs) in the 
third quarter reduced the performance of our
Communications group for the second half of 
the year. As a result Group operating proﬁt was
signiﬁcantly lower in the second half of 2002
compared with the ﬁrst half.
We are pleased to announce the divestment of our interests in WAGO 
to our joint venture partners for net cash proceeds of approximately
£58.2 million. The divestment is subject to shareholder approval which 
is being sought at an Extraordinary General Meeting to be convened for 
31 March 2003. WAGO is not considered to be a core business of the
Group and does not materially contribute to the Group’s cash ﬂow.
We continue to be in compliance with our existing borrowing covenants.
However in order to increase the level of headroom available under certain
of our ﬁnancial covenants we have renegotiated our borrowing terms. The
new borrowing terms are conditional on the completion of the divestment
of WAGO and the use of the net proceeds to pay down debt. Further
details of the new borrowing terms are set out in the Financial Review.
The fall in revenues in our Communications group led us to realign 
our cost base. This involved an 11 per cent reduction in workforce,
reorganisation of our operations and reductions in discretionary spending
within the Communications group. These actions are expected to result 
in annualised cost savings of £33.5 million. In accordance with accounting
standards and due to the fall in trading we were required to take a non-
cash goodwill impairment charge of £923.3 million in the year. Operating
exceptional items totalling £41.6 million have also been charged in 2002
primarily relating to the reorganisation of our operations.
In difﬁcult conditions our Communications group was able to maintain its
position as a market leader due to our portfolio of leading-edge products,
technologies and services, our expertise in network operations and our
ability to provide integrated performance analysis and service assurance
solutions. The Performance Analysis division achieved a stable order intake
rate of some £50 million per quarter in the ﬁrst half of 2002 but this
dropped to £42 million in the third quarter. Order intake recovered in the
fourth quarter to £50 million. The Service Assurance division’s order book
closed the year at £37 million compared with £31 million at the end of the
third quarter and £73 million at the end of last year, reﬂecting customers’
changing order patterns and reduction in capital expenditure over the year.
Our Network Products and Systems groups delivered sound performances
in the year. These businesses supply a broad range of industries and
therefore have provided some protection from the current volatile
conditions in the telecoms market.
During the year we expanded the technological capabilities of the Group
through organic development and strategic investments. The Performance
Analysis division expanded its Internet infrastructure testing capabilities
through the acquisition of Caw Networks, Inc. (Caw). The purchase of a
wideband CDMA (W-CDMA) product line has brought us expertise in this
important third generation (3G) wireless technology and the purchase of
a remote special services test product line further strengthened our
Service Assurance product portfolio.
We made progress in the divestment of non-core businesses during 
the year with the sale of our aerospace component businesses and the
divestments of Switching Systems International Inc (SSI) and Monitor
Labs Incorporated (MLI) from our Systems group.
Financial Summary
Reported turnover was £558.9 million and operating proﬁt was £50.5
million in 2002. Turnover from ongoing businesses was £533.9 million
and operating proﬁt was £49.2 million, down 18 per cent and 50 per
cent, respectively, compared with 2001. As a result of the drop in
turnover and with the cost-saving actions only becoming effective in the
fourth quarter, return on sales for ongoing businesses declined to 9.2 per
cent (2001 15.3 per cent). The reduced trading levels in the third quarter
led to a weak second half, down 16 per cent on turnover and 57 per cent
on operating proﬁt from ongoing businesses compared with the ﬁrst half
of 2002. Our Communications group reported a small operating loss for
the third quarter but returned to proﬁtability in the fourth quarter as the
cost savings started to take effect.
In accordance with accounting standards and due to the deterioration 
in trading we were required to reassess the carrying value of certain of
our businesses at the year end. This has resulted in a non-cash goodwill
impairment charge of £923.3 million of which £330.7 million relates to
4 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Chief Executive’s Review the Performance Analysis division and £530.4 million is in respect of the
Service Assurance division.
Reported loss before taxation was £1,053.1 million (2001 loss 
£730.7 million). Before charging goodwill amortisation of £56.1 million
and exceptional items of £1,043.4 million, proﬁt before taxation was
£46.4 million for the year.
Headline earnings per share were 3.40 pence (2001 7.76 pence).
Operating cash generation for the year was £76.9 million compared with
£141.2 million in 2001. Despite the lower levels of trading we were able
to generate £36.4 million of free cash ﬂow compared with £40.4 million
in 2001. This was achieved after investing £77.7 million (2001 £95.9
million) in product development representing 14 per cent of turnover,
up from 12 per cent in 2001. Free cash ﬂow was down by only £4.0 million
despite a fall of £64.3 million in cash ﬂow from operating activities.
Net borrowings reduced to £161.8 million (2001 £179.1 million) at 
the year end. The net proceeds from the divestment of WAGO will reduce
net borrowings in 2003.
Operating Summary
Communications 
Spirent’s Communications group achieved operational successes in a
number of key strategic areas including wireless, metro and broadband
access networks and Internet infrastructure testing together with
geographic expansion during the year.
Our Performance Analysis division competes in the research and
development segment of the test and measurement market and so was
directly affected by the reduction in capital spending by its main chipset and
network equipment manufacturer (NEM) customers. However due to our
broad spread of technologies and the cost efﬁciencies our products deliver,
the division was able to increase its share of customers’ capital budgets.
We continue to focus our product development efforts in those areas
where we believe there are near term opportunities as well as longer
term potential. Our drive for innovation delivered several new product
launches and ‘industry ﬁrsts’ during the year. The quality of our products
continued to be recognised worldwide with the WebAvalanche™ 4.2
Internet testing solution winning ‘Best of Show’ awards at Networld™ +
Interop® in Atlanta and Tokyo and our Abacus2 voice-over-IP (VoIP)
product winning Internet Telephony® magazine’s 2002 Product of 
the Year award. Spirent Communications was also proud to be named 
by industry analyst Frost & Sullivan as the 2002 Market Engineering
Company of the Year in the category of communications test.
Spirent is a market leader in the US broadband service assurance market
where our systems are deployed to assure some of the largest residential
digital subscriber line (DSL) and high-capacity business leased line
networks in the country. However customers of our Service Assurance
division came under ﬁnancial pressure during the year and as a result the
roll-outs of monitoring systems for DSL and leased line services were
slowed such that our order book dropped substantially over the year.
Nevertheless progress was made by the division with initial deployment
of its CenterOp™ platforms for fault and performance management 
and the introduction of new systems for the assurance of optical and
packet networks.
A key strategy for our Communications group is to expand its geographic
reach and we made progress in increasing our global presence during the
year. Customers outside North America accounted for 25 per cent of
Communications group sales in 2002 (2001 20 per cent).
Network Products 
The results of our Network Products group for 2002 remained in line 
with 2001 despite a depressed result in South America due to the severe
recession in the region. Overall performance from our activities in the US,
Europe and Japan were broadly ﬂat during the year.
Due to the fall-off in the telecoms market, total sales of our local area
network (LAN) and broadband wide area network connectivity products
declined in the year and now represent only 13 per cent of Network
Products group turnover (2001 17 per cent). This decline was largely
off-set by sales to the automotive sector where our products were
accepted onto a number of new car and heavy vehicle platforms at
manufacturers in the US and Europe. Sales of our automated cable
bundling and tying, labelling and printing systems continued to be 
strong during the year.
Against a competitive background characterised by downward pricing
pressure, our ability and commitment to working closely with customers
to deliver products that meet their needs enabled us to penetrate new
markets and increase market share during the year.
Systems 
The ongoing businesses within our Systems group delivered growth 
in both turnover and operating proﬁt due to improved performance 
in the aerospace business and continuing growth in the power controls
business through increased penetration of the mobility and small industrial
vehicle markets.
5 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes
Operating proﬁt (EBITA) and return on sales as referred to in the text are stated
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Free cash ﬂow as referred to in the text is cash ﬂow before acquisitions and disposals,
equity dividends and ﬁnancing. Dividend
An interim dividend of 1.35 pence per share was paid to shareholders in
November 2002. A ﬁnal dividend will not be paid in respect of the year 
to 31 December 2002 nor will a dividend be paid in respect of the year
ending 31 December 2003. The Board intends to keep future dividend
policy under review but any future dividend payments will be dependent
on trading outlook and the availability of cash and distributable reserves.
Board and Senior Management
We were saddened to report the deaths of Dr George Sarney, non-
executive Chairman, and Mr Ray Parsons CBE, Life President, during 
the year. They each made signiﬁcant contributions to the Group and 
will be missed.
We would like to thank Mr James Wyness, the senior independent
non-executive director, who took on the role of acting non-executive
Chairman. On 31 October 2002 the Board announced the appointment
of John Weston CBE as non-executive Chairman. He brings substantial
public company experience, strategic insight and a strong understanding
of international business and technology to the Group.
Jim Schleckser, President, Service Assurance – Broadband, Spirent
Communications, has been appointed to the Operations Management
Team with effect from 1 January 2003.
Our People 
We appreciate that the uncertainties in the marketplace during the year
have been unsettling for our employees. Our results for the full year are
testament to their ability to respond positively to the demands made of
them to ensure we continue to deliver the cutting-edge technological
innovations and dedicated support and services that our customers have
come to expect. We would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge
the contributions made by our employees in this challenging year and
thank them for their continued dedication and commitment.
Corporate Social Responsibility
We recognise our corporate social, environmental and ethical impact and
responsibilities and are committed to advancing our policies and systems
across the Group to ensure we address, control and monitor all aspects of
corporate responsibility. We strive to maintain an open dialogue with our
stakeholders and welcome contact from all our interested groups.
Outlook
We have planned our business assuming the challenging conditions in 
the telecoms market will continue throughout 2003 and trading so far
this year has been in line with our expectations. As growth in data trafﬁc
creates opportunities for Spirent, we remain committed to investing 
in our leading-edge products, technologies and services to enhance our
market positions and grow market share.
6 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Nicholas K Brookes
Chief Executive
