 Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 3
Chief Executive’s letter
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to be reporting an overall improvement in the performance of your Company in 2004 
as a result of our investment in and focus on growth markets.
Overall turnover increased by 9 per cent in constant currencies to £475.0 million, with strong results
reported by our Performance Analysis division which achieved a substantial rise in turnover, up 31 per cent 
in constant currencies. Our Service Assurance division had a difﬁcult year and we are working to
reinvigorate this business. Operating proﬁt for the Group as a whole was up materially by 28 per cent 
in constant currencies to £42.8 million. Earnings per share increased by 29 per cent to 2.99 pence.
Strong cash generation enabled us to reduce debt to £26.4 million at the year end from £57.5 million.
Spirent is well positioned to build on its strengths, including its leading position in next-generation
technologies, broad product portfolio, depth of expertise and our strong commitment to innovation and
product development. Going forward, we will continue to leverage our expertise across our Communications
group to deliver testing solutions for new and evolving telecoms technologies. We have sharpened our
focus on our customers’ needs and have established strong positions in virtually all next-generation
technologies that are critical to our customers’ migration to packet-based networks and services. I believe
the organisational changes and improvements we have implemented have laid a solid foundation from
which we can progress.
In my ﬁrst year as Chief Executive I am very excited about our accomplishments and our future. I would
like to acknowledge and applaud the hard work and dedication of our employees around the world who
make our successes possible and who are vital to our future growth.
As we look ahead, our strategy to focus on and grow our Communications group provides us with exciting
opportunities and challenges. I am conﬁdent we are on the right course to achieve our objectives.
Yours faithfully
Anders Gustafsson
Chief Executive
