 4 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Chief Executive’s overview
Introduction and strategy
Since joining Spirent as Chief Executive I have set out to transform
the Group into a focused communications company. During 2005
we have been busy reshaping and restructuring the business
culminating in the disposal of HellermannTyton, as well as starting
in 2006 to make selective acquisitions.
The decision to focus on communications reﬂects our view that
the sector offers Spirent the best top and bottom line growth
opportunities in the mid and long term, leveraging our leading
market positions in our key product segments.
We are therefore continuing to invest in organic growth
opportunities through research and development and sales and
marketing activities and the launch of new products such as the
Spirent TestCenter™.
We will also continue to make selective acquisitions. These
acquisitions will be a good strategic ﬁt with our existing activities
as well as expanding our customer base, broadening our
geographic coverage or enabling entry into new markets. The
principal strategic drivers for acquisition are to expand our market
position and our competitive offering into markets where we
see strong growth opportunities.This will ensure that we remain
a core supplier to our customers, whilst at the same time
accelerating our development plans to keep ahead of competition.
We will shortly establish our operational headquarters in Sunnyvale,
California, in the centre of Silicon Valley where we have the
highest concentration of customers. I will relocate in the spring,
but we will maintain a small corporate headquarters in the UK.
Results overview
The Group’s 2005 results were principally affected by the
operating losses incurred by the Service Assurance division,
which were described in detail at the time of the interim results
in August 2005. These losses were substantially reduced in the
second half as a result of the actions we took in the ﬁrst half.
Material one-time items of £8.4 million have been expensed in
the year. Of this, £3.9 million is in relation to restructuring
actions in the Service Assurance division and £1.4 million for
inventory write-downs again in this division. Other material one-
time items of £3.1 million have been taken in relation to supply
chain initiatives and other restructuring actions within the
Group. This was reported in our interim results.
In the first half we took a goodwill impairment charge of 
£37.0 million due to the drop in activity in the Service Assurance
division.
Performance Analysis
Revenue and operating proﬁt in the Performance Analysis division
for 2005 were slightly up on 2004. In this division several of our
end markets were weaker than had been anticipated earlier in
the year, particularly so in the third quarter, although activity in
the fourth quarter did recover somewhat. In addition, we are in
a product transition phase as we progressively introduce new and
improved products and solutions. Encouragingly, sales to some
of our largest customers in the equipment manufacturing sector
grew by more than 30 per cent and the division’s wireless and
position location test activities experienced their best year ever.
Service Assurance
Revenue in the Service Assurance division was down 43 per cent
compared with 2004 and as a result the division reported an
operating loss of £9.6 million of which £9.0 million was incurred
in the ﬁrst half. In the ﬁrst quarter of 2005 our major customers,
the US service providers, had delayed the release of their full
Since joining Spirent as Chief Executive I have set out to transform the Group
into a focused communications company. During 2005 we have been busy
reshaping and restructuring the business culminating in the disposal of
HellermannTyton, as well as starting in 2006 to make selective acquisitions.
Anders Gustafsson
Chief Executive capital spending budgets partly due to merger activity, with a larger
proportion of these budgets shifting towards next-generation
rather than existing networks.As these trends became apparent
we undertook signiﬁcant restructuring actions in the division,
including changing senior management, reducing headcount by
around 260 (approximately 40 per cent of the total workforce),
which resulted in a much reduced loss for the second half of
£0.6 million. During 2005 we have refocused our product
development efforts to generate new solutions for triple play
and advanced business services; this will continue through 2006.
Systems
Our Systems group grew revenue and operating profit by 
20 per cent and 29 per cent respectively, beneﬁting from the
launch of two new wheelchair control systems.
Acquisitions in 2006
On 23 January 2006, we announced the acquisition of 
SwissQual Holding AG (“SwissQual”) for an initial consideration
of £27.7 million paid in cash, with up to a further £12.4 million
payable depending on revenue growth and various technical and
ﬁnancial milestones. SwissQual provides world class products
and talent in the development of voice and video solutions that
analyse, recognise and improve the quality of experience for
users of wireless applications and services.
We also announced on 13 February 2006 the acquisition of
QuadTex Systems, Inc (“QuadTex”) for an initial consideration of
£4.2 million with a further consideration of up to £0.9 million.
QuadTex is a fast growing US based provider of innovative and
leading test tools for internet protocol multimedia subsystems
(“IMS”) and voice over IP (“VoIP”) testing.
SwissQual and QuadTex will enhance Spirent’s product offerings,
capabilities and customer base in the wireless, triple play (voice,
video, data) and IMS markets.
Outlook
The disposal of the HellermannTyton Division has transformed
Spirent into a focused communications company, as well as
having signiﬁcantly improved our ﬁnancial position. Spirent is well
placed to grow organically from its established market-leading
positions.We also have the potential to expand through selective
acquisitions, such as SwissQual and QuadTex, announced in 2006.
The variable market conditions seen in 2005 have continued
through the beginning of the ﬁrst quarter, which is usually our
quietest.As 2006 progresses, the year will be a period of product
transition as the increased capability of our new products and
solutions will enable us to gain market share. As a result, we
anticipate that the Group’s performance for 2006 will show
recovery over last year, with a more pronounced seasonal increase
in activity in the second half.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 5
Operating profit/(loss) and return on sales are used by the Group as key measures of
operating performance and are stated in the text before the effect of material one-time
items, goodwill impairment and share-based payment so that period-on-period comparisons
are not distorted.
The HellermannTyton Division for the purposes of these results has been presented as a
discontinued operation and our financial results are presented and discussed for the
continuing Spirent Group, unless otherwise stated.
