 Spire has again delivered excellent results 
for its patients, consultants and, with 
its strong financial performance in 2014,  
its investors. With our dedicated staff,  
and experienced management team, 
a  track record of investment discipline 
and  a focus on increasing productivity, 
we are well placed to build on our 
position as a market leader. 
Chief Executive Officer’s statement 
A key part of the UK’s healthcare system
S
pire Healthcare aims to be the UK’s 
leading independent hospital group. 
In 2014, we delivered tailored, 
personalised care to over 260,000 
in-patient and daycase patients, an increase 
of 10.2% on the prior year. In total, including 
out-patient visits, we saw over 700,000 
patients. In June, our outstanding performance 
was recognised when Spire Healthcare was 
named Private Hospital Group of the Year at 
the 2014 HealthInvestor awards, the main 
awards for our industry.
PATIENT CARE – THE HEART  
OF OUR BUSINESS
We aim to deliver care and clinical outcomes 
of the highest quality for our patients. They 
are our first priority.
We had no incidents of MRSA and our  
MSSA and c.difficile infection rates, both  
at 0.30 per 10,000 bed days, were lower  
than the equivalent NHS rates of 0.79  
and 1.47 respectively. 
Rob Roger
Chief Executive Officer
06
Strategic Report
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Across all our hospitals, our Care Quality 
Commission (CQC) compliance rate was 
99.5%, compared to an independent health 
sector average of 90% and a national average 
of 85%.
The outstanding quality of our care is 
reflected in our patient surveys, where 
93% of patients rated Spire as ‘Excellent’ or 
‘Very good’, and in our survey of Consultant 
satisfaction, where 79% rated us as 
‘Excellent’ or ‘Very good’ and 97% would 
recommend us to their friends and family. 
Our reputation is built on our clinical 
performance and these results are a 
testament to the leadership of our clinical 
team and the work of our staff. It is their 
skills, care and commitment, delivered day 
and night, that makes Spire what it is today.
Further details of our clinical performance 
can be found in the Clinical and Operating 
Reviews on pages 38 to 41, and a review of 
the Board’s Clinical Governance and Safety 
Committee’s oversight can be found on 
pages 70 to 71. 
STRONG PERFORMANCE
Overall revenue for the year grew 12.0% 
to £856.0 million (2013: £764.5 million), 
with positive contributions from all three of 
our major payor groups – PMI, self-pay and 
NHS. Even though we had a higher NHS mix, 
which traditionally has a lower margin, with 
continued productivity and cost-efficiency 
improvements, this growth generated 
an increase of 6.1% in Adjusted EBITDA 
to £159.2 million (2013: £150.0 million). 
Operating profit before exceptional 
items increased 2.7% to £114.1 million 
(2013: £111.1 million) and cash conversion 
reached 103.1%.
While we invested £105.1 million during 
the year across the business, including the 
acquisition of St Anthony’s Hospital, capital 
restructuring at the time of the IPO reduced 
net debt to £424.3 million at year end, with 
a further £100 million committed, undrawn 
loan facility, we are well positioned to invest 
in the next phase of our development.
Further details of our financial performance 
can be found in Simon Gordon’s financial 
review on pages 28 to 35. 
OUR YEAR IN BRIEF
Spire’s IPO in July 2014 marked a significant 
step forward in our corporate development. 
While the IPO involved considerable 
management time, the strength in depth of 
our team meant that the business continued 
to develop positively across all our areas of 
strategic focus. 
INVESTING IN OUR CORE BUSINESSES
Investment in increased capacity continued 
throughout the year.
Most significantly, in May, we completed 
the acquisition of St Anthony’s, a 92-bed, 
four theatre private hospital, located in 
Cheam. With room for further expansion, 
St Anthony’s will be a central platform 
for Spire’s continued growth in cardiology 
and other areas of acute care and is another 
step in our strategy to build services in and 
around Greater London. The acquisition 
received CMA approval in September. 
Spire Southampton Hospital’s new £2 million 
Perform sports medicine centre opened  
in June. Including the flagship facility at  
St George’s Park, we now have 10 Perform 
centres nationwide.
Also in June, Spire Cheshire Hospital opened 
a new Orthopaedic Centre, including 
on-site MRI and CT scanning and upgraded 
out-patient waiting areas, while Spire 
Cambridge Lea Hospital opened a new 
£1.4 million state-of-the-art reception 
and out-patient suite.
New operating theatres were opened at 
Spire Cardiff, Harpenden and South Bank 
hospitals in the year, significantly increasing 
our capacity in these hospitals.
2014 highlights:
ST ANTHONY’S – OUR LATEST HOSPITAL
Acquired in 2014, St Anthony’s is the 
next step in extending our coverage 
in and around London
 See pages 10 and 11 
BRISTOL – OUR FIRST STANDALONE 
RADIOTHERAPY CENTRE
Our Bristol radiotherapy Specialist  
Care Centre is Spire’s first end-to-end 
cancer pathway facility 
 See pages 22 and 23
HARPENDEN – INVESTING IN NEW 
CAPACITY TO MEET DEMAND
New theatre and out-patient  
areas opened in 2014 in 
response to local demand 
 See pages 36 and 37
HULL AND EAST RIDING –  
WORKING WITH THE NHS
A chronic pain infusion service and 
a specialist team of pain consultant 
anaesthetists built up to meet 
specific NHS requirements
 See pages 46 and 47
07
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 FOCUS ON KEY PAYOR GROUPS
PMI 
• Deepen our relationships with 
key insurers
• Increase and deepen our relationships 
with GPs as referrers
• Continue to expand our higher acuity 
healthcare offer 
SELF-PAY 
• Continue to engage with GPs, 
particularly regarding areas 
of NHS service constraint
• Extend transparent pricing 
and quality reporting
• Increase brand awareness
NHS 
• Continue to build key 
NHS relationships
• Expand our service offering 
• Invest to meet specific NHS needs
Chief Executive Officer’s statement 
continued
DEVELOPING OUR SERVICE OFFERING
We continued to develop our higher 
acuity services, particularly in oncology 
and cardiology. 
Our first dedicated radiotherapy centre, the 
£13.1 million Specialist Care Centre in Bristol, 
opened in April and our £2.9 million cardiac 
catheterisation lab in Cardiff was completed 
in May. 
The launch of a new cataracts pathway 
enabled us to reduce the cost of treatment, 
with the result that 9.3% more patients were 
attracted to our facilities during the year.
We continue to offer fertility treatment at 
some of our hospitals, but in line with our 
strategic focus, we sold our interest in the 
standalone London Fertility Clinic in August.
We have taken steps to further strengthen 
our operational management, with the 
appointment of four Operations Directors, 
Rob Anderson, Karen Newton, Paul O’Conor 
and Nicola Amery, to replace the single role 
of Chief Operations Officer, formerly held 
by Andrew Gore. Further details of our 
operating performance can be found in 
my Operating Review on pages 40 and 41.
DEVELOPING RELATIONSHIPS WITH KEY 
STAKEHOLDERS
In November, we concluded a new,  
long-term agreement with Bupa, the UK’s 
leading private medical insurer. Following 
the conclusion of the CMA review of the 
independent healthcare sector, this 
represents a decisive shift to a more 
partnership-style approach, aiming to  
build on our current, excellent working 
relationship in order to drive volume  
growth in independent patient numbers, 
based on affordable healthcare, particularly 
for out-patients, and outstanding clinical 
outcomes. The agreement runs from  
1 April 2015 for a minimum of four years, 
with prices agreed for up to six years.
We are pursuing a range of development 
and engagement activities with our PMI 
and other stakeholders, more details of 
which can be found under Our Strategy 
on pages 18 to 21.
REGULATION AND GOVERNANCE
In October 2014, the CMA published its Final 
Order for measures to increase competition 
in the independent healthcare market after 
its inquiry. We welcomed the recognition 
that there needs to be transparency of 
arrangements between hospitals and 
consultants, and support the drive to 
establish an industry-wide information 
organisation to be the repository for quality 
indicators and measures. We fully support 
initiatives that help patients and GPs feel 
confident when choosing their healthcare 
provider and we continue to work with our 
consultants to implement the Final Order.
In March 2014, we published the findings of 
a report by independent consultancy Verita 
into the work of consultant surgeon Mr Ian 
Paterson at our Spire Little Aston and 
Parkway Hospitals. We commissioned the 
report in April 2013 following a separate 
NHS review into Mr Paterson’s work on 
breast cancer patients. 
The report criticised us for failing to monitor 
Mr Paterson’s work properly and for our 
handling of subsequent complaints. 
I immediately gave a full and unreserved 
apology to all of the patients and their 
families for any distress they suffered as 
a result of their treatment by Mr Paterson 
while he was a surgeon at our hospitals, and 
committed Spire to reviewing our processes 
in order to ensure that such a situation could 
never happen again.
08
Strategic Report
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 OPEN TO EVERYONE
The overall UK healthcare market is subject 
to three major trends – our growing and 
ageing population, the increasing incidence 
of acute and chronic long-term conditions, 
and the continued development of new, 
often expensive, technologies and treatments. 
These factors contribute to independent 
forecasts of growth in healthcare demand 
exceeding 5% a year over the next five years. 
Set against realistic forecasts of GDP and 
public funding growth, the NHS projects a 
growing supply and funding gap that could 
reach approximately £35bn per annum 
by 2020-2021. 
We cannot provide the whole answer, but 
the independent healthcare sector is in a 
position to help meet this demand, working 
with the NHS, as part of the overall UK 
healthcare system.
STRATEGY 
Our strategy is based on four pillars. 
First, we will continue to focus on our 
relationships with each of our three major 
payor groups – PMI, self-pay and the NHS 
– developing targeted responses to their 
individual requirements. 
Second, we will leverage and develop our 
existing well-invested and scalable hospitals, 
maximising existing capacity and opening 
new theatres to meet growing demand. 
We will continue to build relationships 
with our patients, their referring GPs and 
the consultants who provide treatment 
in our hospitals. 
Third, we will develop new sites and services, 
targeting identified growth areas such 
as radiotherapy and cancer care, but also 
orthopaedics, cardiac and general surgery, 
and acquiring or building new hospitals 
in areas where Spire is underrepresented, 
including London.
Fourth, we will continue to drive productivity 
improvement and cost management, both 
centrally and locally.
Our strategy is already delivering across all 
these pillars. In line with best practice for 
public company strategic reporting, further 
details follow my review. We include an 
analysis of our market, our business model, 
more detail of our strategy in action and 
the key performance indicators (KPIs) 
we use to judge our progress. 
OUTLOOK – A PICTURE OF HEALTH
As I said at the time of our IPO and in 
subsequent meetings with shareholders 
and potential investors, I believe that Spire 
is ideally positioned for its next phase of 
development, ready to capture a growing 
share of the UK’s expanding independent 
healthcare market and provide much 
needed additional capacity in areas 
such as radiotherapy and cancer care. 
We have a strong track record of investment 
and growth, based on a culture of clinical 
excellence and care that is highly valued 
by consultants, GPs, payors and patients. 
We are well capitalised and able to fund 
further service and geographical growth. 
And we have a clear strategy in place, 
focused on meeting the requirements 
of all of our stakeholders.
Supported by Spire’s outstanding team, 
I look forward to an exciting future.
Rob Roger
Chief Executive Officer 
Overall revenue 
for the year grew 
12.0%, with positive 
contributions from 
all three of our major 
payor groups.
REVENUE (+12.0%)
£856.0m
2013: £764.5 million 
ADJUSTED EBITDA (+6.1%) 
£159.2m
2013: £150.0 million
Continued productivity and  
cost-efficiency improvements 
help generate an increase of 6.1% 
OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE  
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS (+2.7%)
£114.1m
2013: £111.1 million
Operating profit before exceptional  
items increased 2.7% and cash conversion 
reached 103.1%
Rob Roger and the IPO team proudly 
launches Spire’s first day of trading 
09
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 BUILDING OUR NETWORK 
THROUGH ACQUISITION
At St Anthony’s, we have inherited a uniquely caring  
ethos from the Daughters of the Cross. Our challenge  
is to develop the hospital, and treat more patients,  
without losing any of that spirit.
 WHERE ARE WE? 
St Anthony’s in Cheam, Surrey
Open to everyone
Strategic Report £27m
Investment plan for Spire  
St Anthony’s Hospital
Located in Cheam, only seven miles  
from London Bridge, the acquisition  
of Spire St Anthony’s Hospital is 
part of our strategy to extend Spire’s 
coverage in and around London.
Founded in 1904 by the Daughters 
of the Cross of Liege, St Anthony’s is 
a 92-bed, four theatre hospital, with an 
eight bed ITU. Skilled and dedicated staff 
are able to deliver high-quality healthcare 
in a calm and peaceful environment.
We acquired St Anthony’s in 2014 
as part of our London development 
strategy and, following CMA approval, 
have commenced an integration and 
development programme. Spire protocols, 
administration and procurement are 
already improving efficiency.
A £27 million investment plan, including 
six new state-of-the-art theatres, will 
provide additional facilities for complex 
surgery and high acuity treatments.
 London Bridge Station
 St Anthony’s Hospital
 Spire Hospitals
7 miles
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
