 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 30
Welcome to our 
2013 report
Chairman’s  
statement
Our
structure
Our
marketplace
Our business
model
Our business
model in action
Our
strategy
Our
KPIs
About us
Strategic report continued
Group Chief Executive’s report
“ Group sales increased to £689.4 million, 
with organic sales growth of nearly 
4%. Our focus remains on creating our 
own growth opportunities through the 
implementation of our growth strategy.”
Nick Anderson 
Group Chief Executive
Key highlights
•	Organic sales grew by nearly 3.5% 
in the steam specialties business 
and by 4% for the Watson-Marlow 
pumps business
•	Operating profit increased by 11% 
to £151.6 million and at constant 
exchange rates, operating profit 
was ahead 10%
•	Sales in emerging markets 
expanded to 42% of Group 
revenue and emerging markets 
accounted for 45% of Group 
operating profit in 2013
•	Group operating profit margin 
reached a record 22.0%
Introduction
This is a truly exceptional Company, with 
many fundamental strengths. The success 
and strong performance during recent 
years, despite a challenging global 
economic environment, demonstrates that 
our strategy, robust business model and 
talented organisation delivers superior value 
to our shareholders. As I take over as Group 
Chief Executive, my priority is to continue 
to leverage our strengths and build on this 
solid base.
The skills and applications knowledge of 
our people, especially our direct sales and 
service engineers, is central to our ability 
to provide customers with solutions to 
their energy efficiency, productivity, quality 
and sustainability issues. We manage the 
business for the long term and continually 
invest in widening our addressable markets, 
expanding our market penetration and 
extending our geographic presence, 
especially into newly emerging markets. 
Our focus on solution selling underpins 
our growth in both emerging and 
developed markets.
In recent years we have improved processes 
and significantly increased our investment in 
research and development resources, which 
is central to our ability to expand the size of 
our addressable market. I would expect new 
products to make an increasing contribution 
to sales growth in the future.
We have increased regional manufacturing 
to enhance local availability of an unrivalled 
range of products, improving customer 
service and supporting sales growth. We will 
look to increase supply chain effectiveness, 
by optimising our global distribution network 
and leveraging manufacturing efficiencies.
Global environment
Global industrial production provides a 
reasonable indicator for the conditions in 
our markets. We entered 2013 with very low 
rates of industrial production growth that 
had been progressively slowing through 
the previous year. The first half of 2013 
saw a continuation of this trend but with 
some acceleration in growth through the 
second half of the year. For the full year, 
growth in industrial production was, overall, 
broadly the same as the prior year’s growth. 
The outlook for 2014, however, is a little 
more positive. We have a robust and resilient 
business model but we are not immune 
from economic swings, which our markets 
can lag by up to nine months, although our 
focus remains on creating our own growth 
opportunities through the implementation of 
our growth strategy.
Market conditions remained weak across 
most of Europe, with overall industrial 
production flat year-on-year, although 
with recent indications of improvement in 
market conditions towards the end of the 
year. Markets in North America remained 
challenging and in developed markets 
generally, project activity was slow with lower 
demand for higher value, energy saving and 
process efficiency improvement projects; 
routine maintenance spending by customers 
was modestly higher.
Emerging market conditions were 
mixed, with stable growth in China and 
improvement in parts of Southeast Asia and 
Eastern Europe. In Latin America, there was 
an improving trend in economic conditions 
entering 2013, which flattened in the second 
half. Currency pressures in Argentina 
erupted in early 2014, with a knock-on 
effect in a number of other emerging 
market currencies, creating a degree of 
market uncertainty.
Progress in 2013
Group sales increased by over 4% from 
£661.7 million to £689.4 million. Organic 
sales growth was nearly 4% for the year, 
repeating the growth achieved in the first 
half year. Growth was led by Asia Pacific,  31 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements
Our  
risks
EMEA Asia  
Pacific
Americas Watson-Marlow Financial  
review
Sustainability 
report
Group Chief 
Executive’s report
Group performance  
at a glance
with China continuing its strong progress, 
followed by Watson-Marlow. Modest sales 
growth was achieved in EMEA, despite the 
difficult economic background, and sales 
in the Americas were marginally lower due 
to North America, mitigated by growth in 
Latin America. Overall, sales in emerging 
markets expanded to 42% of Group revenue 
from 40% in 2012. Favourable currency 
movements at the half year were steadily 
eroded by the strengthening of sterling and 
weakness in a number of emerging market 
currencies, particularly in the fourth quarter 
of 2013. If current exchange rates prevail 
through 2014, sales would be reduced 
by around 5% on translation into sterling 
versus 2013.
In the steam specialties business, organic 
sales grew by nearly 3.5%. Sales of our 
traditional condensate management 
products were higher with increased sales 
of traps and valves, which reflected the 
solid underlying demand from the core 
maintenance and operating expenditures 
of our customers. In general, demand 
for higher value energy saving and plant 
improvement projects has been soft. 
Metering sales increased nicely, driven 
by the introduction of innovative and 
technologically advanced products over the 
past two years, with particular success in 
EMEA and Asia Pacific. Sales of controls 
products grew well, with progress in all 
regions, and energy services also did well. 
Following the exceptionally strong growth 
in heat exchange packages in 2012, the non-
repeat of several large projects meant that 
heat exchange package sales were down 
in 2013.
R&D in the steam specialties business 
continued to benefit from the higher level 
of investment and resource in recent years, 
which was maintained through 2013, as 
well as the improvement in processes and 
techniques. Focus was directed onto fewer, 
higher incremental sales value opportunities 
where we can best leverage new product 
sales. We expect that the investment and 
improvements will generate an increasing 
contribution to future sales growth from 
new products.
In the Watson-Marlow pumps business, 
organic sales grew 4% with a particularly 
tough second half comparison due to 
several large non-repeating wastewater 
treatment and mining projects shipped in 
the second half of the prior year. There was 
particularly good progress in Europe where 
an increase in the direct sales channel and 
greater focus through further sectorisation 
of the sales teams, delivered solid growth. 
New products contributed strongly, with 
the new Qdos pump making a particular 
impact. The higher level of R&D resource 
in Watson-Marlow has been maintained, 
with innovative new products that continue 
to expand the performance envelope 
that increases the addressable market, 
displacing other pump types.
The Group has added resource and 
intensified the search for suitable acquisition 
candidates, focusing on expanding our 
addressable markets through new products 
and technologies, direct market access and 
complementary businesses. Our strong 
balance sheet and debt capacity provides 
us with considerable flexibility.
We achieved a good increase in operating 
profit of 1 1% from £136.2 million to 
£151.6 million. Using constant exchange 
rates, operating profit was ahead 10%. 
Following the exaggerated seasonal bias 
in 2012 of profits to the second half year 
of 43:57 , 2013 returned to a more normal 
pattern of 45:55. Emerging markets 
accounted for 45% of Group operating 
profit in 2013, in line with the prior 
year. This reflects the significant profit 
improvement achieved in the developed 
markets of Europe.
The Group operating profit margin jumped 
from 20.6% to a record 22.0%. The cost 
of raw materials and components was 
broadly flat, reflecting subdued world 
metals prices plus our on-going initiatives 
to improve the operation of our supply 
chain. We fully realised the benefits from the 
greater focus on price management and 
margin, as well as from the restructuring 
of our European sales companies that 
delivered a year-on-year cost reduction of 
£3.5 million. Profits rebounded from the 
low levels in the prior year in our European 
steam specialties manufacturing operations 
in Europe, particularly in the UK where we 
achieved further efficiency improvements 
from the consolidated site. We continue to 
invest in geographic expansion and market 
penetration in emerging markets, which 
remains a strategic priority.
Market outlook
We have an outstanding business 
model and over recent years have made 
significant and far-reaching improvements 
to our performance through a time of 
great economic uncertainty. This has been 
achieved whilst at the same time investing 
heavily in our manufacturing capability 
and capacity, in our R&D resources and 
processes, in our people development and 
in our expanding network of direct sales and 
service engineers.
Our markets are heavily influenced by 
the level of industrial production. We are 
not immune from economic tides but 
our business is resilient, having a high 
proportion of sales drawn from customers’ 
maintenance and operating budgets and 
with less exposure to the capital cycle. 
Our focus is on our strategic actions to 
out-perform our markets and we are well 
positioned to leverage the investments 
we have made to achieve growth and 
improvements in our business.
