 Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to be writing to you for the ﬁrst time
having been appointed non-executive Chairman 
of Spirent in November 2002.
2002 was a challenging year but we adapted to 
the volatile conditions and maintained our leading
positions in the markets in which we operate. Our
focus on innovation, customer care and increasing
global presence has enabled all our businesses to
make progress during this difﬁcult year. We were
cash generative and continued to deliver operating
proﬁt. Following a tough third quarter management
moved quickly to cut costs. We also agreed to 
sell our interests in the WAGO joint venture and
renegotiated our borrowing covenants to give us
increased headroom. We remain committed to
investing in the future through focused product
development spending.
We have written off substantial goodwill this year
giving us a balance sheet with which to look
forward. I am conﬁdent that the Group has strong
technological leadership in its key markets, and it
will be well positioned as the telecommunications
market recovers.
The reduction in operating costs unfortunately
involved cutting our workforce. We have also
imposed tight controls on spending. To this end you
will notice that we have not produced an Annual
Review this year, rather just this Annual Report.
I hope you will ﬁnd it interesting reading and 
hope it will help you to understand the underlying
strengths of the business as well as the challenges
that we face.
We fully recognise our responsibilities in relation to
our employees, the communities in which they live,
the environment and other stakeholders and have
made progress in the management, monitoring and
reporting of corporate social responsibility issues
during the year.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank James
Wyness for his willingness to take on the role of
acting non-executive Chairman after the death of
Dr George Sarney. James was an able steward and
remains the senior independent non-executive
director on the Board. The Board and management
have worked hard to steer the Company through
these difﬁcult times and these results reﬂect the
efforts of every one of Spirent’s employees to
deliver their very best.
With ﬁnancing terms now agreed, our task is 
to manage the business to drive organic growth 
and generate cash going forwards.
Yours faithfully
3 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Chairman’s Letter
John P Weston CBE
Chairman
Notes
Operating proﬁt (EBITA) and return on sales as referred to in the text are stated
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Free cash ﬂow as referred to in the text is cash ﬂow before acquisitions and disposals,
equity dividends and ﬁnancing.
