 3
Spirent Communications plc
Annual Report 2008
Chairman’s statement
“During 2008, Spirent introduced new, 
innovative products and lowered its 
cost base, resulting in a stronger 
financial position overall.”
Spirent’s financial performance improved in each 
quarter throughout 2008 as a result of the programmes 
put in place to increase manufacturing efficiency and to 
deliver new innovative products. In addition, the 
Company benefited from favourable exchange rates and 
a reduced number of issued shares. These factors, with 
annualised cost reductions of a further £8.2 million 
implemented in the first quarter of 2009 and the strong 
financial position of the Company, mean that Spirent is 
well placed to face the challenges of an uncertain market 
in the coming year.
Group revenue increased by £20.9 million, some 9 per 
cent over that for 2007 and the resulting gross profit 
increased by £18.8 million, with the gross profit margin 
increasing by 2.2 percentage points year-on-year. 
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 75 per cent to 
6.24 pence from 3.57 pence in 2007. This was after 
charging 0.30 pence for share-based payment and 
intangible amortisation, down from 0.38 pence in 2007. 
Cash generation was robust with free cash flow of 
£42.2 million in the year.
The Company paid its first dividend since the first half 
of 2002 and proposes a final dividend of 0.6 pence per 
share. This will result in a total dividend for the year of 
1.1 pence per share. It is the Board’s policy to maintain 
a high dividend cover and to pursue a sustainable 
distribution policy consistent with the development of 
earnings over time.
The cash generation of the Group allowed the funding of 
share repurchases through on-market repurchase and by 
way of a tender offer. £67.0 million was used to 
repurchase and cancel 125.8 million shares, some 16 
per cent of the shares in issue. The total cash returned 
to shareholders since 1 January 2007 is £133.8 million. 
To ensure flexibility, further authority will be sought at the 
Annual General Meeting for share repurchases of up to 
15 per cent of issued share capital, depending on market 
conditions and other factors.
Total order intake in January 2009 for the Group is level 
with that for the same period in the prior year in constant 
currency terms, with Performance Analysis being down 
by 10 per cent. In sterling total order intake in January 
2009 increased 27 per cent year-on-year. The 
restructuring of the business over the past two years has 
resulted in a material reduction in the break-even point 
for sales. At current exchange rates the Company will 
benefit both as an exporter of products and services 
from the UK and in the translation of the Group’s 
substantial dollar earnings. These factors, combined with 
the reduction in the number of shares in issue, will result 
in a greater resilience to the impact of any reduction in 
sales levels on the earnings per share and the cash 
generation of the Group.
Edward Bramson
Chairman
Edward Bramson
Chairman
Overview
