 Our Communications group is a worldwide provider of integrated
performance analysis and service assurance systems for next-generation
network technologies. Spirent’s solutions accelerate the development and
deployment of network equipment and services by emulating real-world
conditions and assuring end-to-end performance of large-scale networks.
The Performance Analysis division develops testing solutions for a broad
range of communications technologies critical to the deployment of
next-generation networks. Our systems test a full range of wireless 
and wireline networks and equipment, including core terabit routers,
broadband access devices, next-generation wireless handsets, Internet
infrastructure and storage area networks. Our systems enable customers
to emulate large-scale networks, introduce impairments and stress test
equipment to ensure maximum performance and conformance to
industry standards.
The Service Assurance division provides network monitoring and
management systems for service providers to assure the quality of their
high bandwidth voice and data services. Our systems enable efﬁcient
delivery and maintenance of leased line voice and data, digital subscriber
line, wireless, optical and converged packet networks. The division
provides operations support systems, remote test probes, network test
access systems and the expertise to implement solutions over a national
or global scale.
Our Network Products group provides innovative solutions for fastening,
identifying, insulating, organising, routing and connectivity that add value
to electrical and communication networks in a wide range of applications
marketed under the HellermannTyton name worldwide.
Network Products designs and manufactures a broad range of high-grade
nylon ties, clips, channels and ﬁxings for fastening cables and wires in
electrical, communications, automotive, industrial equipment, aerospace
and construction applications. We also produce products with value-
added identiﬁcation and security features such as standard cable markers,
application tailored labels, printed customised markers and tags, tamper-
evident ﬁxings, security seals and printed ties for clinical waste. Our
heatshrink insulation, convoluted tubing and cable covering products
provide insulation and physical protection for wires and cables.
We also produce a range of products used in the installation of local area
and wide area communications networks such as raceways, ducting,
racks, patch panels and modular jacks. Our ‘Network Sciences’ structured
cabling system includes GigaBand Category 6 and MegaBand Category 5e
systems with performance which far exceeds the required standards.
We are a market leader in systems for the automated application 
of cable ﬁxings and identiﬁcation printing and application systems.
Our Systems group offers integrated product solutions for the aerospace
and power controls markets.
We are a leading developer and supplier of ground-based maintenance,
repair and overhaul (MRO) software systems, brand named GOLD™ and
AuRA™, that manage aerospace customers’ MRO processes by providing
maintenance workﬂow management, inventory control, repair order
management, recording and forecasting capabilities. Aviation Information
Solutions (AIS) designs, manufactures and integrates hardware and
software solutions that enable customers to operate their aircraft more
efﬁciently, safely and effectively, and assist in pilot training. The AIS
product range includes airborne ﬁle servers, the AvVantage™ electronic
ﬂight bag, and ﬂight deck and cabin instruments and displays as well as
software applications for use by ﬂight crew and ground-based personnel.
The power controls business is a leading supplier of sophisticated
electronic control systems for use in specialised electrically powered
vehicles. These include medical vehicles such as powered wheelchairs 
and mobility scooters as well as small industrial vehicles such as ﬂoor
cleaning vehicles and aerial access platforms. These systems allow 
the user to control the direction and speed of the vehicle as well as
controlling other aspects of the vehicles’ functions, including seating 
or platform position, lights, turn indicators and vehicle diagnostics.
2 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Our Business at a Glance
Communications
Network Products
Systems
