 Positioning the Group for growth
Last year, we set out our strategy to restore revenue to growth 
in 2014 which would fund the necessary investment in product 
development and expansion of sales and marketing activities 
for the long term growth of the business. We highlighted that we 
had undertaken a radical reorganisation of the activities within 
Spirent with the key strategic objective of creating long term 
value by harnessing Spirent’s leading capabilities and talent 
and that this would take time to be fully reflected in the financial 
performance of the Company. 2014 was Eric Hutchinson’s first full 
year as Chief Executive. He and his new team have re-energised 
the Company and laid the foundations for future growth. 
It is pleasing to report that Group revenue increased by 11 per 
cent to $457.2 million (2013 $413.5 million) of which $18.6 million 
came from acquisitions made during the year. Revenue grew 
in all divisions and in all regions. This achievement was against 
a backdrop of some strong headwinds and changes in the 
markets that we serve, particularly in the third quarter. After 
achieving 16 per cent growth in revenue in the first half of 2014, 
we saw a significant slowdown in the second half in our service 
provider ecosystem in North America as a major customer 
reorganised and paused in its investment cycle. 
Chairman’s statement
Alex Walker
Chairman
In 2014 we have laid  
the foundations for 
returning the Group 
to growth
Spirent Communications plc
Annual Report 2014
6 Employees
Spirent is its employees. We have highly skilled and creative 
employees and as a communications technology company, 
our employees and their capabilities hold the key to the long 
term prosperity of the Company. I would like to thank all our 
employees for their hard work and commitment to the future 
success of the Group.
Dividends
The final dividend recommended is 2.21 cents per share 
compared with 2.01 cents per share in 2013. This brings the 
total dividend for 2014 to 3.89 cents per share compared with 
3.54 cents for 2013. The increase in total dividend per share is 
10 per cent. In sterling terms this also represents an increase 
in the distribution to our shareholders of 10 per cent.
Board changes
In February 2014, we welcomed Rachel Whiting to the Board 
as Chief Financial Officer. Ian Brindle, our Senior Independent 
Director, and Chair of the Audit Committee, was appointed to the 
Board in December 2006 and has signalled his intention to step 
down from the Board. We are in the process of recruiting his 
replacement and we are delighted to report that Sue Swenson 
has agreed to succeed Ian as Senior Independent Director. 
Outlook
Following the sharp slowdown in the United States at some of our 
customers in the third quarter of 2014, we saw a marked uplift in 
business at the end of the year. 
Whilst there continue to be near term uncertainties and volatility 
we expect to see an increased level of demand for our solutions 
and services as the year unfolds, which will result in a greater than 
usual second half weighting. This will be exacerbated by the later 
timing of the shipment of a major contract for hand-held test tools 
of $16 million in the second half of 2015 compared with $12 million 
shipped in the first quarter of 2014. 
The Board remains confident that further progress will be achieved 
during 2015 and that the Group will benefit from continued 
investment to create long term strategic value. We have a number 
of major new solutions that will be delivered to the market in the 
second half of 2015 and we will continue to pursue areas of 
opportunity to expand the markets we serve.
Alex Walker
Chairman
We also saw structural changes in the smartphone market and 
intense competition over a lower level of demand. Whilst the 
year-on-year increase in the second half slowed to 6 per cent, 
the fourth quarter saw strong demand with revenue up 9 per 
cent over the same period in 2013.
The growth in revenue has enabled us to fund the planned 
additional investment in product development and in sales 
and marketing that we highlighted in last year’s Annual Report. 
Innovation is at the heart of any technology company and 
Spirent invested $115.4 million in product development in 2014, 
an organic increase of 8 per cent over 2013. During the year, as 
part of Spirent’s continuing strategic investment programme, we 
released 85 new solutions and functionality which enhance our 
competitive advantage and spearhead future sales growth.
Additional investment of $12.9 million in sales and marketing, 
excluding the effect of acquisitions during the year, has enabled 
us to build on our customer relationships, drive development 
of and access to markets, and to gain market share.
Return on sales based on adjusted operating profit was 10 per 
cent for the Group, down from 12 per cent last year, reflecting the 
impact of the investment in the business to drive recovery and 
long term growth.
Basic earnings per share for the Group decreased in 2014 to 
3.35 cents per share (2013 5.10 cents). Adjusted basic earnings 
per share was 5.82 cents (2013 5.71 cents); this is before charging 
exceptional items, acquisition related costs, acquired intangible 
asset amortisation and impairment and share-based payment.
The Group’s free cash flow generation was $10.7 million in 2014 
(2013 $43.9 million), a cash conversion ratio of 0.5 times reported 
earnings (2013 1.3 times). The Company has no debt and cash 
balances were $99.8 million at 31 December 2014.
Acquisitions
Spirent made good progress in its strategy of acquiring new 
capabilities and technologies, completing a number of focused 
acquisitions during 2014 for a total consideration of $85.9 million 
funded out of Spirent’s existing cash resources. As a Board we 
evaluate each acquisition opportunity to ensure that it meets 
our strategic objectives as well as the financial hurdles set for 
investment. 
In February 2014 Spirent acquired DAX Technologies Corp. and 
also a majority stake of 58 per cent of Testing Technologies IST 
GmbH. In July, we acquired the assets of the Radvision Technology 
Business Unit and then finally in September Mobilethink A/S and 
its wholly owned subsidiary, Tweakker ApS. These acquisitions are 
discussed in the Financial review. All of our 2014 acquisitions are 
on track to deliver revenue and profit growth.
We very much welcome the employees of all these companies 
into the Spirent Group.
Spirent Communications plc
Annual Report 2014
7
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
