 We saw many fundamental changes in the data communications 
industry in 2014, which in turn caused uncertainty and volatility in 
demand across all sectors, customer types and regions. Changes 
in technologies and deployment of virtual networks challenge 
established products and business models, but change also 
creates opportunity, driving new business for Spirent. Constantly 
evolving and developing data technologies demand new test 
methodologies and solutions, the lifeblood of Spirent’s business. 
There are a number of major themes which are driving these 
changes, and it is in these areas that we see significant 
opportunities for our business. We have divided these 
opportunities into six specific growth categories, as follows:
High speed Ethernet
One of the major themes for fundamental change in our industry 
is the continued exponential growth in network bandwidth. 
In particular, the transport of video across our networks has 
continued to create the need for faster networks. In 2015, 
we will see widespread deployment of 100G networks by 
the service providers and the trialling of 400G. 
Maintaining performance at these speeds requires precise 
equipment and sophisticated testing techniques. Spirent will 
continue to invest in its core products to help its customers 
meet these rapidly growing bandwidth demands. 
Chief Executive Officer’s strategic review
Eric Hutchinson
Chief Executive Officer
Our vision
To be recognised as the 
leading experts in test 
methodologies and 
solutions for data 
communications.
How we will achieve our vision
— pages 14 and 15
Spirent Communications plc
Annual Report 2014
10 Analytics
There is more data than ever being generated on the network, 
at the cell site and on user equipment. Service providers are keen 
to analyse this data as it helps them improve customer retention, 
increase revenue and strengthen market share. Data analytics also 
improve information accuracy and increases operational efficiency, 
all of which leads to an enhanced experience for the service 
providers’ customers.
For customers trying to analyse the experience across their 
network, disparate data silos make it hard to get a complete view. 
Spirent’s Customer Experience Management (“CEM”) solutions 
bring together data from different silos, helping our customers 
to pinpoint and resolve problems fast. Additionally, our device 
analytics offerings improve decision making in all areas of the 
operator’s business, including marketing, sales, customer care 
and network infrastructure, and as input for targeted campaigns.
Adjacent markets
The acquisition of key protocols and test tools and solutions have 
reinforced our capabilities to assure the testing of the provision 
of connectivity for machine-to-machine, the internet of things, 
indeed, the internet of everything. 
Spirent has made inroads into providing new capabilities  
in automotive data and connected cars, again acquiring 
technologies during the year. These are laying the foundations 
for long term market expansion and diversification.
Our approach
The vision for Spirent is to be recognised as the leading expert 
in test methodologies for data communications. Spirent has the 
technical capabilities to satisfy the needs created by all of the 
above opportunities and is differentiated compared with other 
test and measurement suppliers in having such a wide portfolio of 
capabilities. Spirent exists to create solutions to solve customers’ 
problems, to reduce time to market, to ensure quality of service 
and of experience, to create value through more efficient and 
effective development engineering and operations and to optimise 
our customers’ capital expenditure and ensure their customers’ 
brand reputation is protected. The implementation of Agile 
software development, continuous integrated test optimization 
and automation by our customers is transitioning Spirent’s 
business to be consultative, to focus on the business case for the 
customer and to create test solutions and methodologies utilising 
all the capabilities across the Spirent portfolio and the integration 
of third party products and services. Nowhere is this more 
pertinent than in the move to NFV and SDN. The implementation 
of these technologies enables far more rapid system provisioning, 
to turn up new services, more effective utilisation of resources and 
lower costs to operators. Spirent has leading capabilities in virtual 
test methodologies, working closely with the innovators in this 
industry to develop test standards.
The dynamic nature of the markets which Spirent serves can be 
seen in this review. We are making investment decisions to target 
those areas which offer the most value to our existing and future 
customers. This in turn will deliver the best return on investment 
for the Company. Uncertainty and volatility are expected to 
continue through the near term followed by a renewed level of 
demand for services and solutions as the industry invests in the 
next wave of deployment.
Eric Hutchinson
Chief Executive Officer
Cloud and virtualization
Many parts of the service providers’ networks are being virtualized. 
This virtualization is causing the established ways of deployment 
of data technologies (through ever-increasing capital investment 
in complex hardware) to become a commoditised market. This, 
in turn, means that service providers, multiple service operators 
and internet service suppliers are significantly reorganising their 
business processes and seeking new ways to provide content to 
subscribers, beyond traditional data networks. The virtualization of 
networks, also referred to as software-defined networking (“SDN”) 
or network functions virtualization (“NFV”), is aimed at increasing 
the elasticity of network provisioning to provide on-demand 
service creation through a dynamic programmable network. 
It is blurring the boundaries that exist in current legacy networks. 
Spirent’s test solutions ensure that the performance of the virtual 
network can be assessed, the availability of the services can be 
ascertained, that the provision is secure and scalability can be 
measured. The emerging virtual network will need to coexist with the 
legacy network for an extended period of time. Here Spirent enables 
the emulation in laboratory modelling to be taken into the live network 
to provide continuous assurance in the hybrid virtual/physical world. 
Security
The concern over cyber security is ever present and becoming 
more challenging. The interconnection of devices, systems and 
networks that were never originally intended to be connected 
is creating new vulnerabilities for enterprise, government and in 
critical infrastructures. The constant availability of network services 
is the over-arching concern and cyber security threats, intrusion 
and denial of service attacks all impact on network availability. 
In this area, Spirent’s ability to provide realism in test traffic 
enables our customers to optimise the balance between defence 
and the continued service provision. Spirent has invested in the 
development of more realistic emulation of real-world traffic to 
test applications and security and will add more capabilities 
through 2015. 
In addition, Spirent has the technology to test satellite navigation 
vulnerability, not only to allow the strengthening of defences in 
navigation but also to test the resilience of systems that utilise 
satellite navigation time signals in critical systems. Security will 
be a major line of business for Spirent in the near future.
Mobility
Mobile communications continues to see rapid deployment of 
new high speed high density data communications. Existing 
revenue streams from telephony are altering with the deployment 
of digital technologies across all networks, wireline or wireless. 
The polarisation of the smartphone market is well documented 
as is the rise of new manufacturers challenging the position of 
newly dominant suppliers. Wireless carriers need to optimise their 
investment in the deployment of 4G LTE, Wi-Fi offload and small 
cell. They are also deploying digital voice through VoLTE, which 
in turn enables the provision of rich communication services. 
Interoperability challenges are now the main theme in this industry 
and Spirent has developed the world’s first test platform to enable 
interoperability test on device-to-device systems and on emulated 
network domains. Our leading capabilities in mobile infrastructure 
test are facilitating the rapid deployment of 4G LTE networks which 
allows wireless carriers to model traffic patterns in advance of 
significant capital expenditure, meaning they optimise their 
investment and provide the best quality of service to subscribers. 
Spirent Communications plc
Annual Report 2014
11
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
