 02 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Chairman’s statement
Underlying pre-tax profits rose by 11% to £60m against 
a backdrop of a continuing difficult, although recovering, 
consumer environment. Strong cash generation during the 
year has further strengthened our balance sheet. As a result, 
the Board recommends an increase in the final dividend to 
1.50 pence per share, bringing the total dividend for the full 
year to 2.22 pence per share, an increase of 8%.
We continue to execute our established strategy underpinned 
by continued focus on maximising long term value for all 
stakeholders through our ‘Best for Team’, ‘Best for Guest’ and 
‘Best for Investor’ model. We have continued to invest in pubs, 
brands and people, and have retained our focus on delivering 
a great guest experience whilst further refining our stable of 
brands. Our Managed brands are seeing market leading growth, 
and in our Leased estate it is pleasing to report growth in like 
for like net income. We also continue to trial innovation models. 
We have made further progress in our corporate social 
responsibility programmes, which has been recognised with 
a variety of awards in this area during the year. Our intention 
is to be a responsible retailer in the communities in which we 
operate, and to have appropriate regard to, and to minimise 
our impact on, the environment in which we operate.
I am pleased to report on a strong 
performance in the third full year 
for Spirit as an independent public 
company. We have seen further 
significant progress both in the 
financial performance of the 
business, and execution of our 
established strategy, which has 
left us in an extremely strong 
position for future growth.  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 03
In November 2013, Spirit was ranked 16th in the Sunday 
Times Top 25 Best Big Companies to work for and this award 
demonstrates our commitment to our people and our focus 
on being an employer of choice. The success of our company 
is of course driven by the devotion of our employees, in pub, 
field and Support Centre, and I would like to sincerely thank all 
of them for their impact during the year. 
Although there are some encouraging lead indicators regarding 
the consumer environment, we expect it to remain challenging. 
Despite these challenges, we believe that the continued 
execution of our strategy to deliver hospitality excellence and the 
opportunity to expand our estate through further acquisitions 
will allow us to make further progress in the year ahead.
Walker Boyd
Chairman
“ The success of our company is of course driven 
by the devotion of our employees, in pub, field and 
Support Centre, and I would like to sincerely thank 
all of them for their impact during the year.”
 11 %
Pre-tax profits
Underlying pre-tax profits rose  
by 11% to £60m against a backdrop  
of a continuing difficult, although  
recovering, consumer environment.
