 12 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report on a strong 
performance in Spirit’s first full year as  
a standalone company. The Managed division 
has continued to outperform the sector  
as the rollout of brands across the estate  
has continued. Following a transitional period, 
the Group took full control of the Leased 
division in March 2012 and we have now 
developed plans to stabilise the performance 
of these pubs. 
The wider economic backdrop continues  
to present challenges but in our mix of brands 
and operating models, geographic spread 
across the UK and the talented team that  
we have in place, I believe that we are well 
placed to continue to deliver sustainable 
growth and value for all our stakeholders.
I said last year that we had a strong and 
experienced executive management team  
and a Board with a wealth of experience.  
To further supplement the team I was 
delighted to announce, in January 2012,  
that Julie Chakraverty joined the Board.  
Julie brings invaluable financial experience 
and insight, having previously spent 13 years 
at UBS Investment Bank, where she was a 
board member and held a number of senior 
global leadership positions with a specialist 
background in risk management and  
fixed income. 
Chris Welham and Debbie Moore also joined 
Spirit’s Executive Committee during the year. 
Chris Welham, as Managing Director of our 
Leased estate, brings extensive industry 
experience and has set out a clear strategy  
for our Leased pubs to stabilise performance 
and then further improve it by ensuring that 
our licensees are well placed to deliver an 
enhanced retail experience. As Group HR 
Director, Debbie Moore is instrumental in 
ensuring that we deliver on our ‘Best for team’ 
objective. In addition, Ian Powell joined the 
Company in June as General Counsel and 
Company Secretary.
I am confident that as a result of these 
changes we have further strengthened the 
Group’s ability to deliver on Spirit’s strategic 
aims to maximise long term value for all 
stakeholders through continued focus  
on ‘Best for team’, ‘Best for guest’ and  
‘Best for investor’. Through continued focus 
on our corporate responsibility strategy  
we also ensure that the interests of all 
stakeholders, such as our suppliers and  
the wider communities in which we operate, 
are appropriately considered.
Continued focus has enabled the Group  
to deliver another year of growth and I am 
delighted that this has enabled us to be able  
to start to return value to our shareholders 
through the payment of our first dividend.  
An interim dividend of 0.65 pence per share 
was paid to shareholders in June 2012  
and this will be followed by a proposed  
final dividend of 1.30 pence per share in 
February 2013.
I also want to take this opportunity to thank  
all of our employees for their continued hard 
work and commitment during the last year. 
Their talent and enthusiasm has enabled Spirit 
to continue to grow despite the challenging 
economic conditions. 
Walker Boyd
Chairman
Continued focus has enabled the  
Group to deliver another year of growth.
