 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
8
Chief Executive’s review
The key objectives in reorganising 
the Group are to enable agile decision 
making, to unleash the creativity and 
innovation of Spirent’s expert and 
talented people and to devolve 
responsibility and accountability to 
customer facing management teams. 
The result will be an organisation that 
is more effective in delivering expert 
solutions that are easy-to-use by 
customers to manage and deploy 
their complex systems.
Product development
$100.5M
+17 %
Eric Hutchinson
Chief Executive Officer 9
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wireless & Service Experience and Service Assurance. Each segment 
is comprised of business units focused on delivery of particular 
technology solutions. Each of these business units are led by a 
management team under a general manager responsible for all the 
activities required to serve customers.
Networks & Applications
The businesses in Networks & Applications specialise in Ethernet 
test, applications test and network performance, cyber security, 
Wi-Fi offload and mobile packet core. The development of virtual 
test solutions to address the emerging needs of software-defined 
networks (“SDN”) and network functions virtualization (“NFV”) are 
a key part of the division’s product portfolio. In addition, a new 
Infrastructure Test Optimization (“ITO”) & Solutions business unit 
has been created to deliver test automation and professional 
services. This business unit will address the demands by customers 
for greater efficiency and effectiveness through providing lab 
management tools, expert analysis of data from test and 
measurement systems and testing services. Another new business 
unit has been established to apply our test technology expertise, 
including cloud based testing-as-a-service, to enterprise customers.
Wireless & Service Experience
Within this division the wireless business unit serves the test needs of 
the wireless device ecosystem. This business unit is in transition as the 
key served market centred on carrier acceptance test for mobile 
devices, 3G CDMA and UMTS mobile test requirements, has moved into 
long term decline, being replaced by the development and deployment 
of 4G/LTE technologies. Solutions now under development in the 
wireless business unit address the needs of those developing and 
deploying the next-generation of services enabled by 4G/LTE 
technologies and which provide for the evaluation of the mobile user’s 
service level of experience. The positioning test business unit designs 
the world’s leading satellite navigation simulation systems for use by 
equipment manufacturers and system developers that utilise the 
various different global and regional satellite navigation and 
positioning technologies. The service experience business unit’s focus 
is on the performance of devices in the live carrier network, providing 
detailed analysis of the subscriber experience that allows wireless 
service providers and their suppliers to successfully roll out new 
devices and services. A new business unit has also been set up to 
develop solutions for emerging needs in the automotive technology 
market, including related connectivity challenges.
Service Assurance
For Service Assurance the primary business is the provision of live 
network monitoring systems for diagnostics and assurance of service 
levels for wireline, wireless service providers and multi-service 
cable operators. 
The key objectives in reorganising the Group are to enable agile 
decision making, to unleash the creativity and innovation of Spirent’s 
expert and talented people and to devolve responsibility and 
accountability to customer facing management teams. The result 
will be an organisation that is more effective in delivering expert 
solutions that are easy-to-use by customers to manage and deploy 
their complex systems. This will enable the Group to return to growth 
and to enhance the long term value of its business.
Market conditions
It has been a challenging year for Spirent; revenues have decreased 
and profit has been impacted significantly. The Company has lost 
some market share in its core markets. Technologies have been in a 
rapid transition and some customers have faced great difficulties, 
with the business performance of a number of major customers 
declining markedly, reducing demand for our test systems. There has 
been a structural change in the shape of the wireless mobile device 
industry, resulting in a market characterised by a very small number 
of profitable manufacturers. The rapid shift to deployment of a single 
global standard for wireless technologies, 4G/LTE, while continuing 
to represent an opportunity for Spirent, has also eroded the 3G 
technology niches where Spirent had a high market share. Regionally 
demand has been weak in Europe, China and in some market 
segments in North America. The impact of the market challenges 
described above was exacerbated by historical under investment 
by Spirent in the development of core technologies, in channels 
to market and in customer support. 
Strategy and organisational structure
The vision for Spirent is to consolidate its position as the leading 
expert in test and measurement for information technology 
communications worldwide. In order to achieve this aim, a number 
of areas are an important focus of Spirent’s future investment. 
These include: the development of new product solutions in its 
core businesses in Networks & Applications, Wireless & Service 
Experience and Service Assurance; establishment of an enterprise 
sales channel; enhancements to Spirent’s cyber security test 
offering; and new solutions directed towards automotive 
technologies and related connectivity testing.
Furthermore, better alignment of the business internally will allow 
Spirent to maximise the growth areas that offer the most significant 
future opportunities. To this end, a number of management changes 
have been completed to provide a streamlined, decentralised and 
simplified organisational structure. These internal changes have 
been made to create a more agile and responsive business that better 
serves customer needs as well as to sharpen the business’ focus 
on anticipating customers’ requirements for the future. The Group 
is managed as three operating segments: Networks & Applications, 
Cloud data center traffic will grow at a faster rate 
than traditional data center traffic (zettabytes per year)
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.0
8.0
9.0
69%
31%
54%
46%
14 16 15 13 17 12
+25%
CAGR 2012-17
 
 
Traditional data center  
(12% CAGR)
Cloud data center  
(35% CAGR)
Source: Cisco Global Cloud Index.
