 06 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Together, these factors have contributed to a significantly 
stronger balance sheet. Whilst we have benefitted from a  
milder winter and a 53rd week of trading, both divisions have 
outperformed their respective peers. Profit before tax and 
exceptional items increased by 11% to £60m and earnings 
per share excluding exceptional items was up 13% to 7.1 pence.
Our performance in 2013/14 has given us a solid platform to 
build upon. Our strengthened financial position means that we 
are now ready to capitalise on the progress made to date and 
continue growing the business both organically and through 
acquisitions. Our existing estate continues to offer opportunities 
to optimise our assets and grow investment returns and we are 
now actively acquiring pubs into our Managed division, where 
we see the opportunity to grow our existing brand portfolio from 
c750 to c1,200 sites.
The year ended 23 August 2014 
was a very successful year for 
Spirit, with both our Managed 
and Leased divisions delivering 
a strong financial performance, 
reflecting robust organic growth, 
rigorous cost control and 
productivity improvements, 
further development of our 
brand portfolio, as well as the 
disciplined use of cash and 
pragmatic realisation of assets. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 07
Managed pubs 
Our Managed pubs have delivered strong results throughout 
the year with continued outperformance of the industry 
benchmark, the Coffer Peach Business Tracker. Like for like 
sales were up 4.4% (for the 52 week period) which represents 
an improvement of 10.8% over a three year period. While we 
benefitted from better weather in the first half of the year, we 
faced tougher weather comparatives over the summer months 
and the underlying health of our brands and the strength of our 
estate helped increase our average weekly sales by a further 
5% to £18,100.
Driven by strong sales growth, EBITDA
2
 increased by 8% and 
EBITDAR
2
 margin improved by 30 basis points, giving a total 
EBITDAR
2
 margin improvement of 160 basis points over a three 
year period. Some of the efficiency gains have been partially 
offset by increases in the carbon reduction tax and the cost of 
introducing BT Sport into the estate. The strong performance 
has also resulted in higher bonus costs than in the prior year, 
with the majority of these bonuses being paid to pub employees.
Our focus remains on disciplined capital investment to drive 
returns and innovation to ensure that we have compelling 
brands and pubs which appeal to our guests. In the first half 
of the year we focused on trialling schemes to determine if we 
could identify more effective brands for our uninvested local 
pubs. As a result of these pilots we have identified opportunities 
for a further roll-out of our Flaming Grill brand and have 
developed a new quality local offer, Golden Oak Inns,  
which we have successfully trialled in seven pubs in the year. 
Golden Oak Inns is well suited to smaller but demographically 
well sited pubs and offers excellent food, drink and service  
in a contemporary environment. We see a significant roll-out 
opportunity for this concept across our Locals estate.
We completed 24 Flaming Grill investments in the year with an 
average spend of £140,000 per pub, with five of these pubs 
being transferred from our Leased estate. A further two pubs 
from the Leased estate have been converted to our Fayre & 
Square brand and we commenced our expansion programme 
with the acquisition and conversion of two freehold pubs into 
our Flaming Grill brand. A third pub was acquired in the year 
and opened for trading as a Flaming Grill in September 2014, 
shortly after the year end. We also completed 13 major Taylor 
Walker investments, including the conversion of four unbranded 
pubs and optimising the use of previously redundant space, 
such as installing cellar bars and function rooms.
We continue to seek opportunities to expand our Wacky 
Warehouse brand by investing in under-utilised space. Our 
ambition is to have a Wacky Warehouse play area associated 
with all of our Fayre & Square pubs.
In the early part of the year we repositioned our Chef & Brewer 
offer to a much more premium offer. Indications were that 
this repositioning was not as successful as was expected, 
and as such the offer was once again adjusted closer to the 
mid-market – with focus on delivering a consistently excellent 
guest experience. Results to date are encouraging.
The proportion of our estate invested and branded is now 89% 
and we continue to achieve an average return on investment 
in excess of 25%. 
We have now commenced the refreshment phase of our capital 
investment programme for pubs that had major investment 
spend between three and five years ago. We have completed 
37 of these ‘sparkle spends’ in the year, at an average cost 
of £37 ,000, predominantly in the Taylor Walker estate.
2.8%
Like for like
1
The Leased estate is firmly  
in growth, with like for like sales  
growth of 2.8%.
4.4%
Like for like
1
Managed brands continued  
to achieve further growth  
with like for like sales up 4.4%.
“ Our focus on value for money and delivering a great 
experience for every guest, irrespective of demography 
or occasion, underpins this positive momentum.”
1  Growth rates are shown on a 52 week vs 52 week basis to exclude the benefit 
of an extra week trading in the financial year to 23 August 2014.
2 Excluding exceptional items. 08 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Chief Executive Officer’s review
continued
During the year we have further strengthened our digital 
and customer relationship management (CRM) capability, 
enabling us to better understand and communicate with 
our guests using a combination of both digital and traditional 
marketing. The launch of our loyalty scheme in our Fayre & 
Square estate has enabled us to increase both the frequency 
and the value of visits by appropriately incentivising guests 
with tailored rewards. 
Our acquisition programme commenced in the second half of 
the year with the purchase of three freehold pubs for conversion 
into our Flaming Grill brand, two of which were open for trading 
at the year end with the third opened in September 2014. 
We also acquired 19 leasehold pubs from the Orchid estate 
which as a package are profitable post rent despite being 
uninvested. These pubs are an excellent fit for our existing 
brands and we look forward to rapidly investing in and branding 
these pubs in order to generate good returns. 
We intend to add further pubs to our estate in order to 
supplement organic growth and leverage our highly scalable 
overheads, and we have made £75m available to fund 
acquisitions. Our preference is for freehold assets that will 
be suitable for our strong food-led value brands, with a target 
return of 20%, although we will also acquire leasehold sites 
if these can deliver a target return of 25%.
Since the year end, we have completed the acquisition of 
a further three leasehold pubs from the Orchid estate which 
will be invested and branded in the first quarter of 2014/15. 
In October 2014, we sold a London Pub, the Prince of Wales, 
for proceeds of £15m (approximately 50x EBITDA), reflecting 
the development potential of this site in Earls Court.
Leased pubs 
The Leased estate is firmly in growth, with like for like sales 
growth of 2.8%
1
 and like for like net income increasing by 4.2%
1
. 
Average net income per pub of £104,000 (2013: £96,000) 
demonstrates the high quality of our Leased estate, which 
delivered total operating profit growth of 2% (on a 52 week 
basis), despite having 6% fewer pubs. 
Like for like beer volumes are in growth and have been 
consistently ahead of the market throughout the year 
(source: BBPA). Like for like rent is also in growth and the 
percentage of pubs on substantive leases has increased 
from 94% to 96% at the year end.
Our focus has remained on improving the quality of the estate 
through investment, innovation and selective disposals and we 
have continued to generate returns from investment in excess 
of our 25% hurdle rate. 
We have continued our Leased innovation trials during the year 
and these have evolved from the more restrictive franchise type 
agreements towards more flexible, fixed and variable turnover 
based rent. This is a natural evolution of our approach in 
providing targeted support to our licensees to share with them 
the skills, experience and insight which our Managed estate 
provides us with.
Summary
Looking forward, our strategy remains clear, relevant and 
consistent: firstly, further organic growth from our existing sites, 
and secondly a new strand of growth through acquisition. 
In order to successfully deliver this second leg of growth we will 
need to continue to build our current pipeline of acquisition sites.
We expect both macro and micro economic trends to gradually 
improve over the next year but we expect volatility to remain. 
Our focus on value for money and delivering a great experience 
for every guest, irrespective of demography or occasion, 
underpins this positive momentum. We remain confident in the 
long-term business outlook, based on further organic growth 
from our existing assets and new growth through acquisitions.
Mike Tye
Chief Executive Officer
1  Growth rates are shown on a 52 week vs 52 week basis to exclude the benefit 
of an extra week trading in the financial year to 23 August 2014.
