 13 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Business review
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Transformation through retail 
excellence
Our business has been on a transformational 
journey over the past three years towards  
a position of retail excellence.
I am delighted with the progress we have 
made during our first year as an independent 
business. Profit before tax is up 16%,  
earnings per share are up 21%, and we  
have commenced the payment of dividends.  
We have delivered further strong growth in 
Managed sales through continued investment 
in our brands, estate, infrastructure and 
people, while cost control has been robust  
in the face of inflationary pressures, enabling 
continued expansion of Managed margin.  
Our Leased pubs have performed in line  
with our expectations this year and we have 
now laid the foundations from which to drive 
performance improvement. The consumer 
environment remains tough but we are  
well placed to make further progress in  
the year ahead.
In our Managed pubs, the performance 
improvement has been driven by our  
well established strategy, which remains 
unchanged. Over the last two years we have 
increased like for like sales by 10% and 
improved EBITDAR margin by 2.5 percentage 
points, which demonstrates an increasingly 
efficient and productive business. It is also 
very encouraging to see the initial benefits 
coming from our new drinks category 
management programme, following  
the renegotiation of all key contracts  
on demerger. 
We have continued to invest in our brands, 
ensuring that we build on our philosophy  
of putting the guest at the heart of all major 
decisions. We understand that consumer 
trends and preferences evolve quickly, and 
therefore we must keep refining the relevance 
of each of our brands through guest research 
and insight which will ensure we pull the right 
levers in each brand. We are investing heavily 
in our social and digital communication 
capability and state of the art customer 
relationship management tools for our brands 
– to work alongside our new in-pub EPOS  
and data capture systems. We are only just 
starting to fully understand the potential 
transformation this could make in the way  
we relate to our guests.
We said last year that we had made  
great progress. We have continued to  
do so this year and we are in the process  
of transforming the Group through  
a continuation of investment and an 
unrelenting focus on retail excellence.
With regard to our Leased pubs, we have 
established some firm foundations in the  
year: we have refined our strategic focus to 
maximise value. We expect the next financial 
year to show an improved performance and 
considerable innovation, as well as leveraging 
the areas of Managed expertise within the 
Leased business.
During the first half of the year the Leased 
estate was operated on a transitional basis 
under a management services arrangement 
with Punch Taverns plc. In March 2012, we 
brought the operation of this estate in-house 
with our own lower cost infrastructure 
including a new, high calibre team to lead this 
division. Our primary focus is on transferring 
our retail expertise to our licensees, whilst 
innovating and evolving the traditional Leased 
model, to drive sales and income growth for 
both Spirit and our licensees.
Overall, during the year we have made  
strong progress on strategy, execution and 
performance. For our Managed pubs, this  
has meant considerable further improvement 
on all key metrics in the year. With regard  
to our Leased pubs, we have built solid 
foundations and have a clear future strategy 
for this part of our business.
I am confident we are on track to achieve  
our vision of being the best pub company  
in the UK.
Mike Tye
Chief Executive Officer
