 Spirent Communications plc
Annual Report 2009
5
OVERVIEW
chairman’s 
statement
I am pleased to report that Spirent’s adjusted earnings per share increased by 11 per 
cent in 2009 to 6.91 pence, which excludes a non-recurring net tax benefit of 1.80 
pence per share and is after charging 0.20 pence in respect of share-based payment 
and acquired intangible amortisation. Earnings benefited from an increase in operating 
profit of £6.6 million, an improvement of 14 per cent, but this was partially offset by  
an increase in the rate of tax charged for the year.
These results reflect the trend of improvement seen in the past several years as  
the Company’s management team implements its strategic plan and effectively  
deploys resources. An increase in gross profit margin and careful cost control improved 
the operating profit margin to 20 per cent for the Group as a whole. In our largest 
business, Performance Analysis, the operating profit margin increased to 25 per cent, 
market share increased, and our new product portfolio is well aligned with the 
segments of the market that we expect will exhibit the fastest growth.
In the fourth quarter of 2009 market conditions improved noticeably, resulting in 
bookings exceeding sales by 29 per cent for the period, whereas bookings were 
somewhat lower than sales for the first three quarters of the year. Accordingly, we 
expect a positive start to 2010.
The Group’s financial position remains strong with cash generation for 2009 that 
exceeded earnings excluding the effect of the non-recurring tax benefit. In these 
circumstances the Board is recommending a final dividend of 0.66 pence per share 
compared with 0.60 pence per share in 2008.
Gerard Eastman who joined the Board in 2006 is retiring at the Annual General 
Meeting and the Board would like to express its thanks for his many thoughtful 
contributions. I will also retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting and  
I am resigning as Chairman with effect from 4 March 2010.
The Board has appointed Alex Walker, who has been a director since 2006, to be 
Chairman. With the continuing participation of Alex, the other non-executive board 
members, and the management team led by Bill Burns I have every confidence that the 
Company is in the best possible hands. I would like to express my sincere thanks to all 
of my colleagues at Spirent, with whom it is a great privilege to have been associated.
“In the fourth quarter of 
2009 market conditions 
improved noticeably.”
Edward Bramson
Chairman
