  13
overview business review governance financial statements chief executive 
officer ’s review o ur pace of innovation 
leads our industry
bill burns
Chief Executive Officer
The fundamental drivers of Spirent’s 
business remain positive, despite the 
macro‑economic uncertainty in many 
parts of the world during 2012. Investment 
in the telecom and IT industries is being 
made on a large scale to meet the demand 
of consumers and enterprises for anytime, 
anywhere access to data, applications and 
services with the highest quality of 
experience. We executed on our strategy 
in 2012 to increase the breadth of our 
test solutions portfolio, organically and 
through acquisition, to address growing 
and emerging opportunities, laying the 
groundwork for profitable growth in 
2013 and beyond.
Mobility – anywhere, anytime, with 
any device, was a major driver of demand 
for our solutions, as mobile broadband 
growth results in ever‑increasing volumes 
of data traffic. This led service providers 
to focus on fixed and mobile network 
convergence and on the rollout of 4G/LTE 
networks, along with the services and 
devices that take advantage of this 
technology. Spending on cloud services 
grew rapidly, driving data centers to 
ever‑increasing scale. The migration 
to high speed Ethernet in data centers 
and core networks accelerated, while 
awareness of the critical importance of 
network and application security grew 
as a result of multiple high profile 
attacks during 2012.  14
spirent COMMU ni CAti Ons pl C Ann UAl rep Ort 2012
Global LTE subscribers
number million
12 13 14 15 16
118.4
210.1
327.6
427.2
Source: Infonetics Research, 2012
The 4G/LTE subscriber compound annual growth rate over the period 2012 to 2016 is forecast to be 70%.
51.2
chief executive officer ’s review CONTINuED
The impact of macro‑economic conditions 
on our served markets, particularly in the 
second half of the year, led to flat revenues 
and profit performance in 2012. In 
Performance Analysis, we saw a fall 
in demand for our positioning solutions 
on the back of caution in government 
spending and the delay in the rollout of the 
commercial specifications for the Chinese 
BeiDou‑2 (formerly Compass) satellite 
navigation system. In addition, some of 
our large customers significantly reduced 
their spending as a result of the decline 
in demand in their end markets due to 
Eurozone and Middle East conditions, 
slowing growth in China and a reduction 
in government spending, or due to their 
loss of market share, with some customers 
exiting certain market segments entirely. 
We experienced challenges in our Service 
Assurance division as service providers 
sharply reduced investment in assuring 
their legacy wireline networks. Despite 
these headwinds, Spirent delivered 
a financial performance that remains 
one of the best amongst its peers. 
We again expanded our global reach 
in 2012 to further strengthen our close 
cooperation with our customers including 
network equipment manufacturers, mobile 
device manufacturers, service providers, 
enterprise, technology providers 
and governments.
Our pace of innovation leads our industry, 
enabling us to deliver on our strategy of 
bringing the right solutions to the global 
market at the right time. To increase focus 
on innovation in our faster growing core 
communications test and measurement 
market, we disposed of the Systems 
division in November for $63.2 million.
Our strategic objectives continue to 
be furthered through the hard work, 
dedication and enthusiasm of our 
employees, and it is key to Spirent’s 
success that we develop and nurture 
our people, recognising their 
critical contribution.
Spirent’s solutions span all important 
technologies and serve all major customer 
segments across the telecommunications 
and IT industries. We increased our 
development spend on areas that matter 
most to our customers, including the 
evolution of wireless networks and 
services to 4G/LTE, high speed Ethernet 
and next‑generation data centers, as well 
as network and application security and the 
development of a new approach to testing 
IT networks by enterprise customers. We 
strengthened our solutions portfolio by 
acquiring and integrating two strategically 
important businesses during the year: 
Mu Dynamics and Metrico Wireless. Both 
acquisitions aligned well with our strategy 
of delivering profitable growth through 
expanding our capabilities in growing 
and emerging technology markets. 
Mu added market leading expertise in 
cyber security, usability and application 
emulation to our solutions portfolio. 
Combining Mu’s software‑based 
applications and security testing 
capabilities with Spirent’s market leading 
performance test platforms has enabled 
us to rapidly create best‑in‑class security 
test solutions with higher performance 
and greater scale than any other provider.   15
overview business review governance financial statements Investment in product development
$ million
70.8
09 10 11 12
75.8
83.3
86.1
increase 
of 3%
In acquiring Metrico, Spirent has 
responded to the needs of carriers and 
device vendors to minimise time to market, 
improve subscriber quality of experience 
and reduce device return rates, while 
also contending with new and emerging 
technologies including 4G data, VoLTE 
and the cloud. Bringing together Metrico’s 
field‑based, subscriber‑level focus with 
Spirent’s device performance test strength 
in the lab has resulted in an unparalleled 
end‑to‑end test portfolio. The combination 
enables our customers to increase 
subscriber satisfaction and loyalty 
while reducing time to market, as 
well as their operational costs. 
We have the industry’s broadest and 
most innovative test solution portfolio. 
Given our confidence in the medium 
term outlook, we plan to increase our 
investment in new test solutions and in 
enhancing our current capabilities in the 
areas that matter most to our customers, 
as they look to drive innovation and bring 
their industry leading products and 
services to market faster and with better 
quality. This, coupled with a relentless 
focus on executing our strategy, 
will enable Spirent to best leverage 
opportunities throughout 2013 
and beyond.
Outlook
The difficult economic conditions that 
characterised market dynamics in the 
second half of 2012 are unlikely to change 
markedly during the first half of 2013, 
although there are some signs that 
confidence is returning with a few major 
service providers increasing capital 
spending plans for the year ahead. 
The rapid pace of innovation in mobile 
and data technologies continues. 
In 2013 Spirent’s revenue will be driven 
by macro demand in the Group’s major 
regions, on‑going industry trends, the 
full year effect of revenues from acquired 
businesses, and revenues attributable 
to new product introductions.
The Group is increasing its organic 
investment for future growth, in particular 
focusing on expanding Spirent’s position 
in the 4G/LTE market and entering into new 
served markets. For 2013 as a whole, we 
anticipate modest revenue growth. Given 
current trading conditions and a lower 
order book at the start of the year, the 
performance in the first quarter will be 
lower compared to the strong period last 
year. The Board remains confident that 
the Group is well placed to capitalise 
on significant medium and longer 
term opportunities.
