 Spirent Communications plc
Annual Report 2009
6
chief e xecutive 
officer’s review
Over the last several years, we have seen significant change across the communications 
industry. Large and small enterprises, as well as consumers, are now demanding 
anytime, anywhere, always-on internet access with increased levels of quality of 
experience from the numerous applications they use everyday. New mobile devices 
are driving the need for faster wireless networks such as LTE, while downloadable 
applications are increasing both revenue and customer loyalty. Examples include the 
extraordinary growth in smartphone usage, the introduction of affordable netbook and 
tablet devices and the download of billions of applications from online stores. 
Service providers have shifted their focus to address the ever increasing demand  
for wireless access, applications delivery and new enterprise offerings such as cloud 
computing. To meet these growing demands, service providers must manage an 
increased level of complexity driven by the integration of legacy wireline, next-
generation wireless and outsourced Content Delivery Networks. Equipment 
manufacturers have responded by moving resources to growth markets such as 
smartphones, higher speed wireless networks and the evolution of enterprise data 
centers with Ethernet as the transport technology of choice. As a market leader in 
communications test and measurement, all of these areas represent significant 
opportunities for Spirent. 
We have transformed the business in a number of key areas to capitalise on  
these changing market conditions. We have rationalised the organisational structure, 
consolidated the supply chain and concentrated on driving cost out of all aspects of  
the business. We closely monitor the trends in our industry, strategically reallocating 
our resources to address growing and emerging markets. Currently, Spirent is delivering 
the industry’s most innovative solutions in Ethernet, wireless, applications and  
security testing — the areas that matter most to service providers and equipment 
manufacturers. The breadth and depth of our solutions portfolio, combined with our 
global reach, make Spirent uniquely positioned to address the changing needs of the 
communications test and measurement market. 
Through this transformation, we have revitalised Spirent’s strategy prioritising 
innovation, time to market and, most importantly, profitable growth. In 2009, we 
released more new and innovative solutions to the market than at any time in our 
history. Examples include the introduction of test solutions for 10/40/100 Gigabit 
Ethernet, virtualization inside the data center, and LTE devices and infrastructure,  
that have expanded our market leadership within test and measurement. 
Our customers along with several of the industry’s largest publications, conferences 
and research firms, Frost & Sullivan, Interop and Fortune among others, have 
recognised our accomplishments with a variety of awards. Our market leadership, new 
product innovation, commitment to excellence and service to customers has resulted in 
a strong 2009 financial performance. Throughout the year, we gained market share and 
outperformed our competitors in revenue and profitability. 
Despite the challenging macro economic environment in 2009, as the year 
progressed operating conditions improved noticeably, and customers began to move 
from cost saving to investing for the future. The alignment of our solutions portfolio 
with customers’ areas of investment drove increased order activity in the second half 
of the year. These improved conditions meant that the fourth quarter saw bookings 
exceeding sales by 29 per cent.
This recovery makes us optimistic for the coming year. We will continue to manage 
costs thoughtfully as the economy recovers. Our goal is to outpace the market recovery 
and grow market share with the key objective of top-line growth that will drive 
increased profitability. We have seen a solid start to 2010 and we aim to continue this 
positive momentum as the year progresses.
“The breadth and depth of 
our solutions portfolio, 
combined with our global 
reach, make Spirent uniquely 
positioned to address the 
changing needs of the 
communications test and 
measurement market.”
Bill Burns 
Chief Executive Officer
