 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
2
Chairman’s statement
The changes made in 2013 will take 
time to be fully reflected in the 
financial performance of the Company, 
but it is planned to restore revenue to 
growth in 2014 which will fund the 
necessary investment in product 
development and in the expansion of 
the sales and marketing activities for 
the long term growth of the business.
Total dividend
3.54¢
+10%
Alex Walker
Chairman 3
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2013 is a year that marks a turning point for the Company. The impact 
on the business due to the significant changes in our markets and 
accelerating shifts in the structure of the industry we serve has 
been marked. These trends manifested themselves through intense 
competition in the data center market, wireless device vendors 
seeing lower profitability combined with a lull in new technology and 
service launches. In addition, under investment in development of 
new test systems in some parts of the business in previous years 
and the lack of expansion of our products into new markets has 
had a negative impact. In response, we have undertaken a radical 
reorganisation of the activities within Spirent with the key strategic 
objective to create long term value by harnessing Spirent’s leading 
capabilities and talent. It will take time to be fully reflected in the 
financial performance of the Company, but it is planned to restore 
revenue to growth in 2014 which will fund the necessary investment 
in product development and in the expansion of the sales and 
marketing activities for the long term growth of the business.
Group revenue reduced to $413.5 million (2012 $472.4 million). This 
resulted in a considerable fall in reported profit before tax to $39.1 
million (2012 $108.4 million). The first half-year saw revenue fall by 
19 per cent, but the rate of decline slowed in the second half-year with 
revenues down by 6 per cent and underlying stability in order intake. The 
order book increased by $21.4 million in 2013 (2012 a reduction of $14.5 
million). Operational highlights included the release of next-generation 
products for Ethernet test, the launch of our advanced applications and 
security test system Avalanche NEXT and the delivery of test solutions 
for China’s regional satellite navigation system, BeiDou.
Return on sales based on adjusted operating profit was 12 per cent for 
the Group, down from 25 per cent last year, reflecting the impact of the 
fall in revenues and the investment in the business to drive recovery 
and long term growth. This investment was in the expansion of our 
operating capabilities: product development expenditure has been 
increased by $14.4 million and sales and marketing by $4.9 million. 
Basic earnings per share for the continuing Group decreased in 2013 
to 5.10 cents per share (2012 12.11 cents). Adjusted basic earnings 
per share was 5.71 cents (2012 13.02 cents); this is before charging 
exceptional items, acquisition related costs, acquired intangible 
asset amortisation and share-based payment. 
The Group’s free cash flow generation was $43.9 million in 2013, 
(2012 $84.0 million); this is a cash conversion ratio of 1.3 times 
reported earnings (2012 1.1 times continuing operations). The 
Company has no debt and cash balances were $216.2 million at 
31 December 2013.
The Board aims to achieve a high return on capital employed in the 
business. The operating return on capital employed in the continuing 
Group in 2013 was 16 per cent, excluding cash balances. The target 
set for return on investment in acquired businesses is 16 per cent. 
Returns are low to negligible on cash balances, which are retained to 
allow surety of completion for acquisition negotiations. Whilst the 
Company continues to expect to invest in acquisitions which are in line 
with the strategy, it is also committed to returning surplus capital as 
appropriate. To that end, during 2013 the balance of the proceeds of 
the divestment of the Systems business, approximately $33 million, 
was applied to the repurchase of Spirent shares in the market for 
cancellation and the programme extended beyond this. In total 
29.2 million shares were repurchased for $55.5 million in 2013. 
No further buybacks are currently planned.
I am delighted to report the completion of the acquisition of the 
business of DAX Technologies Corp. (“DAX”) for a cash consideration 
of $37.0 million. The acquisition of DAX will enable Spirent to combine 
measurements and data from its solutions in the lab and in live 
networks, delivering high value solutions and expertise that help 
customers deploy and manage complex new networks and services 
faster and more effectively. 
In addition, today we are announcing the completion of the acquisition 
of a majority stake of 58 per cent of Testing Technologies IST GmbH 
(“Testing Tech”) for a cash consideration of Euro 2.0 million. This 
acquisition, although small in size, is an important step in the 
progression of Spirent’s strategy to enter the automotive market.
We very much welcome the employees of both these companies into 
the Spirent Group.
The final dividend recommended is 2.01 cents per share compared with 
1.83 cents per share in 2012. This brings the total dividend for 2013 to 
3.54 cents per share compared with 3.22 cents for 2012. The increase in 
total dividend per share is 10 per cent. In sterling terms this represents 
an increase in the distribution to our shareholders of 5 per cent.
Board changes
September 2013 saw a change in senior management with Bill Burns 
stepping down as Chief Executive Officer and replaced in the role by 
Eric Hutchinson. Rachel Whiting, who has extensive financial 
experience and long service with Spirent, was welcomed to the 
Board in February 2014 as Chief Financial Officer.
Outlook
The disruption and structural changes experienced in our markets 
in the first half of 2013 stabilised during the second half-year. 
The reorganisation of the Group in the fourth quarter of 2013 has 
released creativity and energy, which is driving a dynamic change 
in the responsiveness and agility of our businesses. We continue to 
see opportunities arising through infrastructure investment in the 
wireless networks worldwide and in the development and rollout 
of virtual and cloud based services. 
In 2014, we anticipate that Spirent’s revenue will be linked to recovery in 
China, growth in the Americas and expected stability in the European 
market and we look to achieve high single digit organic growth.
This year the Group intends to make an additional investment of 
around $33.0 million in future growth, in particular through a 15 per 
cent increase in product development, extending the sales channel 
to break into new areas, expanding Spirent’s capabilities in the 
core markets that it serves and by entering new markets including 
automotive and enterprise. Whilst there continue to be near term 
uncertainties, activity levels at the beginning of 2014 are in line with 
our expectations. The Board remain confident that progress will be 
achieved and that the Group will benefit from the investment to 
create long term strategic value.
