 10
SpiriTel plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
Chief Executive’s review
2007/08 has been a year of considerable
progress for SpiriTel and I am delighted
to be able to provide the most positive review
since the current management team took
charge of SpiriTel’s strategy. Our restructure
of the Group is complete and the combination
of organic growth alongside selective earnings
enhancing acquisitions is now reflected in
improved operational and financial performance
across the Group. Whilst growing overall
customer numbers, we have also sold more
products to our existing customers, which
is now a key focus for the management team.
During the year, we also reached agreement
for an important balance sheet restructure
which was approved at our EGM post year
end in May 2008.
During the year, we completed our fourth
and fifth acquisitions with tdotcom Limited
and WN1 Limited. The acquisition of WN1,
now fully re-branded as SpiriTel Mobile,
completed our B2B communications product
set, adding mobile to our existing fixed line,
data and networking services. The tdotcom
transaction leveraged our existing operational
infrastructure, enabling us to rapidly integrate
the value of tdotcom’ s services and customers
into SpiriTel Business. Both acquisitions
are good examples of our acquisition strategy:
buy quality businesses with attractive
customer bases, integrate them swiftly and
drive forward the resulting synergy benefits
of cost savings and new sales opportunities.
Results
Revenue for the year to 30 April 2008 was
up 22% to £16.7 million (2007: £13.6 million)
and gross profit increased to £6.42 million
(2007: £2.04 million), a rise of 215%. Underlying
EBITDA* increased significantly to £938,000
profit (2007: £861,000 loss), albeit there was
only a part year contribution from the two
acquisitions, tdotcom and WN1. As a result
of the timing of these acquisitions, the Group is
currently performing at a level that is significantly
ahead of the year ended 30 April 2008.
At a divisional level, SpiriT el Business’
revenue increased by 314% to £6.74 million
(2007: £1.63 million) while Underlying
EBITDA* increased more than fourfold
to £1,125,000 (2007: £236,000), Our other
division, SpiriTel Technologies, increased
Underlying EBITDA* to £1,024,000
(2007: £40,000 loss).
“This has been a year of genuine turnaround
for SpiriT el. We are profitable in the new financial
year, turnover has increased markedly and we
have achieved widespread recognition for the
quality and pioneering nature of our services.”
Alastair Mills, Chief Executive
* Operating profit after adding back charges for depreciation,
amortisation, share-based payments and exceptional costs. 1 1
SpiriTel plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
SpiriT el is one of the few O2 Advance Partners
in the UK. The O2 Advance programme
sets demanding qualifying criteria, including
excellent customer service and commitment
to the business sector. O2 Advance partners
have a proven track record in delivering mobile
voice and data solutions tailored to the
customer’s specific business requirements.
SpiriTel is also a member of the BlackBerry
Alliance. SpiriTel provides the BlackBerry
®
solution allowing users to stay connected with
wireless access to email, corporate data,
phone, web and organiser features. With a
BlackBerry solution, you can enhance the
productivity of your organisation by pushing
data out to where it’s needed most – your
mobile workforce.
SpiriTel has a longstanding relationship with
Mitel, one of the world’s leading providers
of IP based communications solutions for
business customers. Mitel operates from
over 100 locations in over 90 countries.
After a continued period of investment in
training and support on both sides, SpiriTel
has achieved the highest accreditation
possible – Premier Partner. Using a Mitel
3600 platform, SpiriT el also rolled out the
UK’ s largest hosted VoIP contract for
Regent Inns in November 2007.
The loss before taxation for the year
was £4.0 million (2007: £3.1 million), after
non-cash interest charges of £3.1 million
(2007: £0.6 million). The non-cash interest
charges relate to redemption premiums
charged by Penta Capital Partners (“Penta”)
on the granting of conversion rights, waiver
of accrued interest costs and finance
charges related to the adoption of IFRS.
Balance sheet
Post year end, we successfully agreed on
the restructuring of the Group’s balance sheet.
Conversion rights were granted over the
Group’s total indebtedness of £11 million
to Penta in exchange for a waiver of all interest
costs from 1 November 2007 until 1 May 2010.
An initial conversion of £2.6 million of
indebtedness took place on 22 May 2008
at 1.1p per ordinary share (a premium to the
then share price) which increased Penta’s
shareholding to 49.99%. The remaining
indebtedness of £8.4 million is convertible
at the higher of the most recent placing price
and 1.5p per ordinary share, subject to
Penta’s shareholding not exceeding 49.99%.
The waiver of interest costs will save the
Group approximately £0.8 million in annual
interest charges and will result in a credit
to profits of £0.4 million in the current year
to 30 April 2009. This is a milestone for SpiriT el
that significantly strengthens the Group’s
balance sheet and improves our ability
to attract future funding partners. I would like
to take this opportunity to thank Penta for
their support, encouragement and advice
during our restructure of the Group’ s business.
During the year, we secured an initial
£1.0 million loan and overdraft facility from
Clydesdale Bank to support our acquisition
strategy. The successful negotiation of this
facility represented a welcome endorsement
of both our progress and our acquisition
strategy. The facility was extended
by £500,000 on 31 January 2008 and by
a further £1,200,000 on 2 April 2008 giving
a total facility of £2.7 million, of which
£1.95 million is repayable over five years.
Strategy
The UK communications market remains
highly fragmented on the supply side whilst
the demand from customers for converged
IP based services is accelerating and
these are key drivers behind the ongoing
consolidation in our sector.
SpiriT el continues to play a significant role in this
consolidation through our “Acquire, Integrate,
Grow” strategy as we build a business with
the operational scale and the broad product
offering that corporate customers demand.
During the year, we successfully executed two
earnings enhancing acquisitions that expanded
both our product portfolio and customer base.
Our bespoke and proven integration framework
was used effectively to incorporate these
acquisitions swiftly and efficiently, as illustrated
by the full integration of tdotcom into SpiriTel
Business in just 25 working days.
We continue to target growth by selective
acquisition in order to leverage the scale
of our operations and breadth of our product
portfolio. Increasingly, our focus is on
cross-selling our now complete integrated
suite of voice and data services into our
expanding customer base. Cross-selling is
a major focus during the current year as many
of our acquired customers have only ever
taken one or two products from the Group.
As a result, product penetration is currently
low and we are confident of our ability to benefit
from the considerable upside opportunity that
cross-selling presents. As customers start
to migrate to hosted and managed services
under long-term contracts, we are also
benefiting from a much increased visibility
of future earnings.
Acquisitions
During the year we completed two
acquisitions that added both scale and new
product lines and services to our Business
division. The first of these was tdotcom,
a London based value added maintainer
and supplier of telecommunications systems,
acquired in October 2007. This was a loss
making business which we turned around,
post integration, into a business with an
operating profit margin in excess of 30% that
contributed immediately to Group earnings.
The process of integration involved cost
saving measures alongside cross-selling
upsides and clearly demonstrated the success
of our model which we consider to be highly
replicable for future acquisitions. tdotcom
brought to SpiriTel a number of high profile
clients such as The City of London and BBC
Worldwide and also strengthened our
strategic relationship with Mitel. tdotcom was
combined with Wigan-based Ashland Group,
acquired in March 2007, to form our IP
Communications product line within SpiriTel’s
Business division.
The second acquisition, in April 2008,
was WN1 Limited. WN1 is a leading reseller
of mobile voice, data and BlackBerry services,
and holds key industry accreditations
as an O2 Advance Partner, T -Mobile Business
Partner and a BlackBerry Alliance Member. 1 2
SpiriTel plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
Chief Executive’s review continued
It services exclusively business customers,
which include Lufthansa, Servisair and Wigan
Athletic Football Club. At the time of writing,
we have completed the re-branding of WN1
as SpiriTel Mobile, also within the Business
division, and have moved their staff into our
Wigan office with a number of back office
functions being merged.
Both acquisitions were immediately earnings
enhancing for SpiriTel and in line with our
organic growth strategy they have provided
many significant cross-selling opportunities for
the Group. For example, we have had several
wins in providing fixed line services to tdotcom
(now SpiriTel IP Communications) clients and
WN1 (now SpiriTel Mobile) has successfully
tendered for the supply of mobile voice and
data services to existing Group customers.
We currently have a strong pipeline of
acquisition targets that meet our criteria of being
quickly earnings enhancing with additional
upside opportunity from cost savings
and cross-selling. All acquisitions add scale
in terms of customer numbers and some add
engineering resource (for instance, tdotcom).
Others, such as WN1, add new product lines
as well as expanding our customer base
which, in turn, provides further cross-selling
opportunities. In a rapidly consolidating sector,
the opportunity to acquire complementary
businesses is compelling. We remain selective
in our evaluation of targets so as to ensure
we minimise execution risk through adding
the right customers, products and staff to our
existing base. Furthermore, the restructuring
of the balance sheet and the Penta Debt
Conversion agreement lends further support
to the strategy, as further fund raisings
will also enable Penta to convert further debt
and thereby reduce SpiriTel’s gearing.
Operations
SpiriTel is structured into two complementary
divisions: SpiriTel Business and SpiriTel
Technologies – working alongside and
supporting each other. Both divisions have
undergone a period of expansion and
enhancement in the past year and the Group
now employs over 120 staff (2007: 102).
SpiriTel Business has grown dramatically over
the course of the financial year. The Business
division now has three lines of business:
IP Communications, Networks and Mobile.
SpiriTel IP Communications provides an
advanced range of IP networking services
to business customers alongside traditional
structured cabling, equipment and
maintenance services. SpiriTel Networks offers
fixed line services including calls, lines and
broadband. SpiriTel Mobile provides mobile
voice and data, including BlackBerry services.
The acquisition of WN1 completed the
integrated communications portfolio that
SpiriTel Business now offers.
SpiriTel Business has substantially increased
its customer numbers from 700 at the
beginning of the year and currently has over
1,500 business customers. These range from
smaller UK SMEs, to high profile customers
such as Wigan Athletic Football Club and blue
chips like Whitbread, Marriott, and Lufthansa.
These customers are supported by a team
of 45 accredited engineers, providing 24/7
nationwide engineering coverage.
SpiriTel Business has developed a particularly
close relationship with Mitel, and this
relationship was key in the VoIP and WiFi
solution that SpiriTel developed for Regent
Inns, the UK’s largest converged VoIP/WiFi
deal. SpiriTel won this contract against fierce
competition from much larger companies.
Our solution provides Regent Inns with
a complex and pioneering service that
encompasses all their voice and data services
across over 100 sites. I am delighted
to report that in June 2008, this solution won
both the “UK’s Best Converged Solution”
at the 2008 national Comms Business Awards
and also the Federation of Communication
Services “Best VoIP Solution” 2008 award.
We are confident of our ability to roll this
award winning solution out to other major
corporate customers in the current year.
We see ongoing scope for rapid growth –
both organic and acquisitive – in our Business
division. We are particularly focused on
cross-selling opportunities to our existing
customer base and we hope to increase
significantly the product penetration of the
division’s 10 core products and services.
SpiriTel Technologies continues to play a
critical role in the development of the Group,
both on its own account and in its support
of SpiriTel Business. The Technologies team
sees the Business division as a key customer
and their IP infrastructure and experience
is a key differentiator for SpiriTel. SpiriTel
Technologies provides the platform and
credibility for us to deliver large scale, managed
IP solutions for UK wide customers.
Technologies was particularly instrumental
in the hosted solution provided for Regent Inns
where our next generation IP network
architecture was the key component that
enabled the Business division to deliver
the necessary high level of service to the
customer. Technologies has built a robust
and dynamic IP network that has three
operation centres, five points of presence
and several Tier 1 carrier interconnects.
It provides the backbone for the support and
development of the products and network
infrastructure that the Business division takes
to market.
In addition to the development and maintenance
of the Group’ s IP network infrastructure, SpiriT el
Technologies also generates a significant
revenue stream from the provision of wholesale
voice services to its own blue chip customers,
including most of the UK’s largest telecoms
companies with whom the Business division
has established long-term relationships. In the
past year, the Business division has grown
into a 24/7 service with higher levels of traffic
from a broader customer base and this has
resulted in enhanced earnings and margins.
In November 2007, SpiriTel re-launched its
charity directory inquiry service with Richard
Branson’s Virgin Mobile. 118 918 is now fully
branded as a Virgin Mobile number and gives
20p from every call to charity, the highest
amount of any charity 118 service. This is
a managed service for Virgin Mobile provided
by SpiriTel Technologies.
Summary and outlook
The year to 30 April 2008 was a year of
genuine turnaround for SpiriTel. We moved
from losses to underlying EBITDA* profitability,
revenue has increased markedly and we have
earned widespread recognition for the quality
of the communications services that we
can and are delivering to a broad range of
business customers across the UK. Following
two further acquisitions, the Group is now
a fully integrated business communications
provider that is delivering the full range of
fixed, mobile, data and networking services.
This integrated capability is crucial in a market
where customers are increasingly looking to
suppliers to provide the full range of services
they need from a one-stop shop supplier.
In a highly fragmented marketplace, in which
there are up to a thousand resellers with less
than £5 million of turnover, we are among
the few that can offer this scale and range
of products and services. Customers
recognise this as a differentiator in a competitive
marketplace and we are enjoying the benefits
of providing a fully converged offering.
We have completed the process of
restructure and rebuilding, begun two years
ago, and now have a level of revenues and
earnings that provide the perfect springboard
to take SpiriTel to the next stage in its rapid
development. We have a highly replicable
model where we can bolt on new, earnings
enhancing acquisitions alongside consistent
organic expansion. We are now
demonstrating the benefits of our “Acquire,
Integrate, Grow” strategy which translates
into a robust business model, an expanded
product portfolio and ever increasing
customer base.
SpiriTel has an energised management
team and highly skilled and committed staff.
The foundations are now in place to deliver
ongoing value to shareholders. I look forward
to the coming year with real confidence.
Alastair Mills
Chief Executive
3 August 2008
Alastair Mills, Chief Executive
