 3	 SpiriTel	plc	Annual report and accounts 2010
Delivering 
outstanding 
service
SpiriTel	has	recently	been	awarded		
its	largest	contract	to	date	by		
Punch	Taverns	to	provide	a	multi-site	
converged	voice	and	data	service	to	
over	800	of	Punch’s	7,100	UK	sites.	
Under	the	terms	of	the	deal SpiriTel	
will	provide	a	wide	area	data	network	
and	hosted	IP	telephony	service,	
using	the	Group’s	award	winning	VoIP	
platform,	to	cover	5,000	connections	
across	Punch’s	managed	estate.	
As	a	pre-existing	client,	with	SpiriTel	
previously	providing	maintenance	
services	for	Punch’s	legacy	telephone	
IP Communications
systems	since	2008,	Punch	
recognised	SpiriTel’s	ability	to	deliver	
a	complex	solution	using	the	Group’s	
nationwide	technology	network.	
Punch’s	CIO	Bob	Broadbridge	
highlighted	that	his	company	was	
“very impressed with SpiriTel’s 
proposal, which gives us the technical 
solution we need, with a great service 
proposition and value for money.”	
He	went	on	to	say	that	Punch	“was 
also impressed with (SpiriTel’s) track 
record in the hospitality sector.”	 4	 SpiriTel	plc	Annual report and accounts 2010
Introduction
I am delighted to report that SpiriTel 
continues to move forward, driven by 
a strong performance from all segments 
of our Business Division. SpiriTel Mobile 
increased total connections by 39% 
to 16,500 during the year, and by  
a further 91% to 31,500 post year end 
as a result of the acquisition of Housing 
Communications Limited. The number 
of minutes per month carried by SpiriTel 
Networks increased 233% to a rate of 
14.2 million minutes per month by year 
end, whilst maintenance and hosted 
revenues in SpiriTel IP Communications 
increased 106% to a run rate of 
£3.3 million (2009: £1.6 million). 
This growth derived from a combination 
of acquisitions and an impressive 
15% organic growth rate, which was 
predominantly driven by cross selling. 
Our acquisitions, which are a key aspect 
of our tried and tested “Acquire, Integrate 
and Grow” strategy, have delivered a host 
of benefits in terms of customer numbers, 
engineering geographic coverage, sector 
breadth, product expertise and 
substantially increased revenues and 
profits. This increase in scale across the 
Group has also given us a greater ability 
to secure major contracts and we are 
increasingly able to win customers from 
much larger competitors. We now service 
4,200 corporate customers across 
England, Scotland and Wales and are 
proud that, despite our rapid growth, we 
continue to achieve market leading low 
customer churn rates.
Results
Despite trading in challenging economic 
conditions, and the fact that our results 
show only part year contributions for 
our five acquisitions, the results for the 
12 months to 30 April 2010 show real 
progress. Significantly, our key financial 
performance indicators demonstrate 
substantial improvement:
•  Revenues increased by 8% to 
£21.3 million (2009: £19.7 million)
•  Gross profit increased by 12.4% 
to £8.6 million (2009: £7 .6 million)
•  Underlying EBITDA increased by 5.6% 
to £1.6 million (2009: £1.5 million)
SpiriTel	Business
SpiriTel Business is the main focus of the 
Group and now represents 90% of 
revenues and 98% of Underlying EBITDA 
before central costs. During the year we 
continued to invest in growing the Division 
further and the results highlight the 
progress we have made. Although the 
headline numbers demonstrate significant 
progress, as previously mentioned, they do 
not represent the current performance of 
the Division which is significantly ahead of 
these levels. Our key financial results were:
•  Revenues increased by 71% 
to £17 .7 million (2009: £10.3 million)
•  Gross profit increased by 44.8% 
to £7 .9 million (2009: £5.4 million)
•  Underlying EBITDA increased by 70% 
to £3.1 million (2009: £1.8 million)
This is our first year of reporting separate 
financial results for the three principal lines 
of business that constitute SpiriTel 
Business. These are Mobile, Networks 
and IP Communications. Performance 
by line of business is described below 
in more detail.
Mobile
SpiriTel Mobile has achieved the 
highest level of accreditation as an 
O2 Centre of Excellence and provides 
mobile voice and data, including 
BlackBerry, services to business users. 
Almost all revenues are generated from 
contracts of 24 months or longer. SpiriTel 
Mobile acquired MoboTel Management 
Limited on 11 February 2010.
Mobile revenues increased by 47% 
to £4.897 million (2009: £3.340 million) 
largely by organic growth, with MoboTel 
contributing £510,000 to revenues during 
the last quarter of the year under review. 
Removing the MoboTel revenue reveals 
annual organic growth of 22%. The gross 
profit increase of 48% to £2.271 million 
(2009: £1.539 million) was commensurate 
with growth in revenues and improved to 
46.4% of revenues (2009: 46.1%). The 
acquisition of MoboTel allowed us to realise 
substantial cost savings as we were able 
Chief	Executive’s	review
“	 Despite	trading	in	challenging	economic	
conditions,	and	the	fact	that	our	results	
show	only	part	year	contributions	for	
our five	acquisitions,	the	results	for	
the 12 months	to	30	April	2010	show	
real progress.”
Revenue £000
• SpiriTel Business
• SpiriTel Technologies
2009 total: £19,718 2010 total: £21,284
52%
48%
83%
17% 5	 SpiriTel	plc	Annual report and accounts 2010 Chief	Executive’s	review	continued
Enhancing 
staff 
performance
HMV	came	to	SpiriTel	struggling		
to	divide	its	staff	time	adequately	
between	customer	service	and	
answering	the	phone.	The high 	
street	retailer	had	an	urgent	need		
to	establish	a	low	cost,	flexible		
means	of	dealing	with	customer		
calls,	identifying	call	patterns,	
understanding	reasons	for	calls	and,	
ultimately,	meeting	service	levels.	
SpiriTel	was	able	to	help	with	its	
Inbound	Call	Manager	–	a	simple	
web-based	tool	that	manages	
telephone	calls,	leaving	staff	free		
to	manage	customers.	
This	service,	provided	free	of	charge,	
allows	HMV	to	have	a	dedicated	
non-geographic	number	set	up	for	
each	store,	free	personalised	
call queuing	and	a	free	Interactive	
Voice	Response	(IVR)	system,	
a	feature	which	gives	callers	quick	
access	to	information,	or	an	
assistant,	with	a	click	on	the	keypad.	
Options	can	be	altered	instantly.	
In	addition	to	improving	the	customer	
experience	on	the	phone,	these	
services	have	also	made	an	impact		
on	the	quality	of service	in-store	by	
reducing	the	number	of	calls	that	
have	to	be	dealt	with	by	a	store	
colleague,	thereby	giving	the	store	
manager	more	opportunity	to	deal	
with	customers.	
It	has	been	well	received	by	HMV,	
whose	Customer	Contact	Manager	
Catherine	Santamaria	stated	that		
the	Inbound	Call	Manager	has	
“already been enormously important 
in improving call handling and 
customer service delivery.”	
Network Services 6	 SpiriTel	plc	Annual report and accounts 2010 Chief	Executive’s	review	continued
to rapidly incorporate most of their back 
office activities into our Wigan office.
Underlying EBITDA from Mobile grew 
by 74% to £879,000 (2009: £506,000). The 
operational gearing in our Mobile business, 
which allows us to increase revenues 
without commensurate increases to 
overheads, meant that Underlying EBITDA 
increased to a 17 .9% return on sales  
(2009: 15.1%). Operating profit increased 
by 69% to £526,000 (2009: £311,000) 
after deducting increased exceptional 
costs of £134,000 (2009: £6,000) incurred 
in relation to the acquisition and integration 
of MoboTel.
Networks
SpiriTel Networks provides fixed line 
telephony services, including inbound 
and outbound calls, line rental and 
broadband to business users. Almost 
all revenues from Networks are received 
under contracts which range from rolling 
monthly to five-year agreements. SpiriTel 
Networks acquired Edge Solutions 
Limited on 2 November 2009 and 
ADK Communications Limited on 
6 November 2009.
Networks revenues increased by 216% to 
£8.085 million (2009: £2.555 million) during 
the year by a combination of organic 
growth, achieved largely by cross sales 
into existing customers, and acquisition. 
Stripping out the revenue from acquisitions 
reveals annual organic growth of 32%.
The acquisition of Edge Solutions Limited 
added substantial scale and expertise to 
our Networks activities and allowed the 
swift integration of ADK Communications 
and the network activities of Nessco. 
The increased purchasing power of our 
Networks line of business and a focus 
on managed services allowed us to 
increase gross profit to 33.1% of revenues 
(2009: 32.3%). 
Underlying EBITDA from Networks grew 
by 288% to £1.410 million (2009: £363,000), 
a 17 .4% return on sales (2009: 14.2%). 
Operating profit increased significantly 
to £573,000 (2009: £459,000 loss).
IP	Communications
SpiriTel IP Communications provides 
a range of voice and data services to 
business customers, including hosted VoIP 
and WiFi, traditional telephony equipment, 
maintenance and structured cabling. 
A substantial part of revenues are generated 
under maintenance contracts, some of 
which are for three years, and hosted VoIP 
where contracts are for up to seven years. 
SpiriTel IP Communications acquired 
Boucon Network Solutions Limited on 
29 January 2010 and Nessco Limited 
on 18 March 2010. IP Communications 
supplies all business sizes, including large 
corporates and has particular expertise 
in the hospitality sector. The business also 
holds the highest level of Mitel accreditation.
IP Communication revenues increased 
by 5.3% to £4.656 million (2009: 
£4.420 million), with £732,000 of 
revenues from acquisitions offsetting 
a decrease of 10% in historic revenues. 
Gross profit decreased to £2.946 million 
(2009: £3.083 million) due to ongoing 
pricing pressure and revenue mix. 
Underlying EBITDA from IP 
Communications decreased to £773,000 
(2009: £930,000), a 16.6% return on 
revenues (2009: 21.0%). The operating loss 
of £237 ,000 (2009: £135,000 profit) was 
largely due to increased exceptional costs 
of £373,000 (2009: £203,000) incurred on 
the acquisition and integration of Boucon 
and Nessco. These results reflect the 
difficult trading conditions in the year 
under review and their adverse effects 
on pricing and on investment in voice 
and data equipment.
At Boucon and Nessco, acquired during 
the last quarter of the year under review, 
we were able to achieve substantial 
cost savings. Most of these were from 
relocating their office based functions 
to our Wigan office and reducing staff 
numbers. These savings and the full year 
earnings potential of Boucon and Nessco 
are not fully reflected in these financial 
statements. We have started the current 
financial year to 30 April 2011 with 
several substantial contract wins, including 
Punch Taverns, which will contribute 
materially to revenues and profits over the 
next few years. After a challenging period, 
IP Communications is now trading well and 
we expect it to make a strong contribution 
to Group profits in the current year.
SpiriTel	Technologies
The Group results were achieved in 
spite of SpiriTel Technologies revenues 
declining by 61% to £3.646 million 
(2009: £9.403 million) and Underlying 
EBITDA decreasing to £58,000 (2009: 
£1.103 million). The decline in SpiriTel 
Technologies has been highlighted in 
previous financial reports. In line with our 
strategic objectives, the Division is now no 
longer a significant component of Group 
revenues and profits. However, SpiriTel 
Technologies continues to provide 
wholesale call termination services to a 
“	 Our	Business	Division	growth	was	
derived	from	a	combination	of	
acquisitions	and	an	impressive	
15% organic	growth	rate.” 7	 SpiriTel	plc	Annual report and accounts 2010 Chief	Executive’s	review	continued
small number of carrier customers and, 
more importantly, provides network 
infrastructure and support to SpiriTel 
Business, for which it receives no revenue.
Central	costs
Central costs comprise the costs of  
SpiriTel plc, including the Board of Directors, 
group finance team and professional 
services including M&A activity. Our policy, 
whenever possible, is to charge costs 
directly to the relevant Division or line 
of business. 
Finance	costs
Finance costs include interest paid or 
payable in cash on bank debt and the 
convertible loan notes (“cash interest”) 
and non-cash finance costs recognised 
under IAS 39. Of the total finance costs  
of £10.128 million, total cash interest paid 
during the year was only £1.297 million of 
which £1.051 million was charged against 
profits. The balance of £8.768 million 
which has no cash requirement at any 
time, relates to finance costs recognised 
under IAS 39.
Taxation
The principal component of the tax 
credit is deferred tax of £432,000 (2009: 
£335,000) relating to intangible assets 
recognised on acquisitions. There was 
no current tax charge due to the Group 
having tax losses of £9.5 million, of which 
£8.9 million are not recognised as a 
deferred tax asset. Corporation tax paid of 
£456,000 and the corporation tax creditor 
of £72,000 are both almost entirely due to 
pre-acquisition liabilities.
Balance	sheet
During October 2009 we strengthened 
our balance sheet with the conversion 
into ordinary shares of £6.85 million 
of indebtedness to Penta Capital. 
This was followed by an injection of 
£10.0 million of new funding in 
November and December 2010, led 
by Penta Capital. This funding has been 
used, in conjunction with additional bank 
facilities, to complete the acquisitions 
referred to above. The £10.0 million of new 
funding was raised by issue of convertible 
loan notes repayable in 2014. The 
long-term maturity gives us greater 
certainty of future cash flows. The loan 
notes carry a 10% annual paid yield and  
a 20% redemption premium and are 
convertible at 40p per ordinary share. 
SpiriTel’s accounts are presented using 
IFRS accounting rules. Specifically, 
IAS 39 requires that the liability in 
respect of the £10.0 million convertible 
loan notes is stated on our balance sheet 
at £15.0 million, of which £5.0 million 
represents IAS 39 finance costs referred 
to above. The other component of IAS 39 
non-cash finance costs of £8.768 million is 
a charge of £3.768 million related to the 
modification of the conversion terms of the 
£6.85 million of debt that was converted 
during the year. 
During March 2010, at the time of the 
Nessco acquisition, we consolidated 
several loans from Clydesdale Bank into 
a single £8 million facility, of which 
£4.8 million was drawn at year end and 
the balance allocated to meet expected 
obligations in respect of deferred 
consideration and earn out agreements. 
The support of Clydesdale Bank has 
been instrumental in completing 12 
acquisitions over the past few years 
and they remain positive supporters 
of our strategy.
Strategy
SpiriTel’s strategy remains focused 
on the twin tracks of acquisition led 
growth complemented by organic 
growth derived from cross selling our 
integrated product portfolio to existing 
and acquired customers. Despite the 
continuing consolidation in our sector, the 
UK telecommunications market remains 
highly fragmented with few competitors 
able to provide the converged, IP-based 
services that customers are increasingly 
demanding. This provides the opportunity 
for us to further execute the Group’s 
“Acquire, Integrate, Grow” strategy. 
Having now reached a level of critical 
mass, we have the ability to extract a 
significant level of synergies from 
acquisitions and increase the return on 
our cost of investment. Further upside 
opportunity is derived from organic growth 
and cross selling.
At the heart of our progress this year 
has been our success in cross selling, 
powered by our ability to deliver integrated 
systems to customers at a reduced overall 
cost. This has allowed us to grow revenues 
despite the fact that, like all businesses, 
we currently face a challenging economic 
environment. This delivery of organic 
growth alongside an aggressive acquisition 
strategy is a key differentiator for SpiriTel 
amongst its competitors. Whilst many 
competitors aspire to deliver cross selling 
success, we have a proven record of 
delivery and it remains a key contributor 
“	 This	delivery	of	organic	growth	alongside	
an	aggressive	acquisition	strategy	is	a	key	
differentiator	for	SpiriTel.” 8	 SpiriTel	plc	Annual report and accounts 2010 Chief	Executive’s	review	continued
SpiriTel’s	six-year	partnership	with	
Voyage	is	a	prime	example	of	the	
Group’s	ability	to deliver	effective	
mobile	solutions	with	constantly	
competitive	tariff	levels,	and	has	
allowed	the	Staffordshire-based	
care provider	to	cut	its	mobile	
bills substantially.	
Six	years	ago,	rapid	expansion	
had left	Voyage	with	an	expensive	
Orange tariff	and	too	many	handsets.	
SpiriTel	first	managed	to	unravel	the	
contracts	of	a	neglected	mobile	
estate,	and	then	eliminated	
unnecessary	expenditure.	This	was	
achieved	by	moving	the	company	
to an	O2	business	package	and	
reducing	handset	costs	by	a	simple	
arrangement	involving	a	“managerial	
phone”	and	a	“non-managerial	
phone,”	the	latter	offering	minimal	
features	at	the	lowest	possible	cost.
Today,	SpiriTel	continues	to	manage	
Voyage’s	mobile	expenditure,	
providing	a	regular	refresh	on	the	
latest	tariffs	and	the	Group’s	role	in	
cost	management	is	very	important	
for	Voyage,	something	explained	by	
Matt	Davies,	Voyage’s	IT	Manager:	
“Cost management is always going to 
be important and SpiriTel’s approach 
to this issue is outstanding. We need 
partners like SpiriTel who understand 
our operations and help us with the 
ups and downs of an increasingly 
dynamic business.”
Keeping
everyone 
connected
Mobile 9	 SpiriTel	plc	Annual report and accounts 2010 Chief	Executive’s	review	continued
to our organic growth. During the year 
to 30 April 2010 we made a total of 325 
cross sales to 140 customers with 
aggregate contract values of over 
£4 million and this success has continued 
post year end, including a single £5 million 
contract signed in August. This was our 
largest ever contract award across any line 
of business – to provide a converged IP 
hosted voice and data service to 800 units 
of Punch Taverns’ UK estate. Punch is a 
pre-existing voice client which we were 
able to present with an integrated solution 
and win the contract against much larger 
competitors.
Our acquisitions during the year have 
borne out our continuing commitment 
to this strategy of targeted cross selling. 
We have bought a number of exciting 
businesses and, with the exception of 
Nessco, none of these had any sales 
of significance outside their single areas 
of core competence in either Mobile, 
Networks or IP Communications prior 
to acquisition. This presents us with an 
exciting opportunity to focus cross sales 
efforts on their respective client bases 
in the current year. In total, we have 
cross sold 547 products to 210 customers, 
representing only 5% of our total customer 
base, demonstrating the significant upside 
that exists for ongoing progress in this area.
Acquisitions
Aided by a £10 million fundraising led by 
our principal shareholder Penta Capital in 
November 2009, and an increased facility 
from Clydesdale Bank, SpiriTel completed 
the acquisition of five companies across 
each of the segments of SpiriTel Business 
during the year under review: Mobile, 
Networks and IP Communications. As well 
as increasing our scale and enhancing our 
product proposition in each of these areas, 
the newly acquired businesses each 
presented significant cross selling 
opportunities. The acquisitions comprised:
•  Edge Solutions Limited based in 
London, is a leading provider of voice 
and data services to almost 200 
corporate customers, which include 
Guoman Thistle, Boden and several blue 
chip financial institutions. Edge’s client 
base delivers a market leading average 
customer spend of over £2,000 per 
month, with an annual churn rate of less 
than 2%. Edge was historically focused 
on Network Services with minimal sales 
of Mobile and IP Communications 
products and services.
•  ADK Communications Limited based 
in Hertfordshire, is a provider of voice 
and data services to almost 300 SME 
customers with an above average 
customer spend of approximately £500 
per month. ADK had only focused on 
selling Network Services to its customers 
and the base presented a significant 
cross selling opportunity for our Mobile 
and IP Communications lines of 
business. 
•  Boucon Network Solutions Limited 
based in Cardiff, is a leading provider 
of Internet Protocol (IP) based telephony 
solutions and has Mitel Premier 
Partner status, the highest level of 
Mitel accreditation, which SpiriTel has 
possessed for several years. Boucon 
serves a high quality customer base 
including DVLA and several NHS Trusts 
and County Councils. Prior to our 
acquisition, Boucon focused exclusively 
on IP Communications products 
and services. 
•  MoboTel Limited is a specialist mobile 
voice and data reseller, based in 
London and has grown rapidly over the 
last five years to become one of the UK’s 
largest independent B2B suppliers of 
BlackBerry solutions with particular 
strength in the legal and financial sectors. 
MoboTel had not previously sold any 
Networks or IP Communications 
products and services.
•  Nessco Limited based near Glasgow, 
is a provider of IP Communications 
services and networks services to 
approximately 800 customers. Nessco is 
particularly strong in the healthcare, local 
government and hospitality sectors and 
its customers included NHS Highland, 
Aberdeen City Council and Macdonald 
Hotels. The base is a focus for cross 
selling our Mobile and Networks 
solutions in the current year.
In addition, post year end we acquired 
Housing Communications Limited, 
a mobile reseller based in Shropshire. 
HCL brings an exciting opportunity in the 
niche Housing Association market and 
has over 15,000 mobile connections. 
As with all our acquisitions, HCL did not 
have an integrated product offering and 
we are already talking to several of their 
large customers about the Networks and 
IP Communications services that SpiriTel 
is able to offer.
In a highly fragmented market we maintain 
a constant watch for earnings-enhancing 
acquisition opportunities that could add 
“	 SpiriTel	is	now	a	business	of	genuine	
scale and	one	of	the	country’s	larger	
independent	service	providers	to	
business	customers.” 10	 SpiriTel	plc	Annual report and accounts 2010 Chief	Executive’s	review	continued
either scale to an existing line of business 
and/or bring new product or service 
capabilities to the Group. Our track 
record of successful completion and swift 
integration puts us in a strong position 
to attract potential sellers of businesses. 
We are currently reviewing several potential 
targets, a number of which are larger 
companies than previously acquired.
Operations
SpiriTel is now a business of genuine 
scale and one of the country’s larger 
independent service providers to business 
customers. The Group’s customer base 
now comprises 4,200 businesses and 
public sector organisations across the 
UK. Number of customers is a key 
performance indicator for the Business 
Division and the current customer base 
is 80% larger than at 30 April 2009 and 
some 175% bigger than two years ago.
We continue to focus on providing the 
highest possible level of customer care 
and support which we have been able to 
deliver throughout another period of rapid 
growth by acquisition. In our Networks line 
of business, our churn for the year to April 
2010 was below 5% in comparison to 
several competitors which operate with 
attrition levels between 1% and 2% per 
month. For Mobile, our annual churn was 
also market leading at less than 8% 
against an industry average approaching 
20%. In a recent customer service review 
undertaken by O2, we were ranked 
second out of 13 partners in their Centre 
of Excellence channel. We are immensely 
proud of these impressive, market leading 
results and they reflect the hard work and 
dedication of the SpiriTel team. 
Since 30 April 2009, staff numbers have 
grown from 109 to 160 and we now 
have a nationwide sales and engineering 
presence, with offices in London, Cardiff, 
Wigan and Glasgow. Our technical 
operations and customer services 
continue to be based in Wigan and in 
the London headquarters. 
Fast and effective integration was a key 
focus for management during the year 
and continues to be a priority. We have an 
excellent track record of integration, having 
completed 12 acquisitions. Implementation 
of our bespoke integration framework, 
which has been developing since its 
introduction in 2007 , has been a key 
success factor. The results of this 
considerable experience have been 
evident with several companies being 
integrated ahead of plan. For example, 
one of our mobile acquisitions was 90% 
integrated within 11 working days and the 
integration process for the six companies 
acquired in the last 10 months is complete 
for four companies and overall is now 
more than 90% complete. We also have 
a thorough and targeted due diligence 
process that we use to identify cost 
synergies from each transaction, in 
advance of completion. The management 
teams have been successful in delivery 
of these synergies and during the last 
10 months, approximately £1.6 million 
of annual overheads have been taken 
out of acquired businesses.
Summary	and	outlook
The year to 30 April 2010 was a period 
of significant progress for SpiriTel. 
We continued our strategy of targeted 
acquisitions which bring immediate 
earnings enhancement. Combined 
with a sustained focus on cross-sell 
opportunities, these acquisitions have 
seen revenue and Underlying EBITDA 
rise substantially. These results will improve 
even further once a full year contribution 
from recent acquisitions and contract 
wins is included, as our current financial 
performance is significantly ahead of the 
reported results.
I remain confident in the Group’s strategy 
of increasing revenues and profits through 
acquisition led growth combined with 
organically generated growth from cross 
sales. This strategy has been executed 
successfully despite challenging market 
conditions. Our ability to drive cross 
sales from existing customers and new 
customers gained by acquisition is a key 
differentiator for the Group amongst its 
peers and one that offers significant upside 
for future organic growth.
SpiriTel has a well established, 
experienced and energised management 
team, and a highly skilled and committed 
staff who have together proved their 
ability to execute our strategy. We are 
increasingly seeing the fruits of their hard 
work in laying the foundations for sustained 
growth and I look forward to further 
nurturing this development over the 
coming year as we continue to deliver 
value for our stakeholders.
Alastair	Mills
Chief Executive 
27 September 2010
“	 I	remain	confident	in	the	Group’s	strategy	
of	increasing	revenues	and	profits	
through	acquisition	led	growth	combined	
with	organically	generated	growth	from	
cross	sales.”
