 I am pleased to report on a further year  
of growth and development at SpiriT el.  
The Company has made significant  
progress despite an increasingly tough 
operating environment which has seen several 
competitors fall by the wayside. 
SpiriT el made its sixth acquisition during  
the year to 30 April 2009, acquiring and fully 
integrating ED Communications (“EDC”)  
into the SpiriT el Business Division. The Group 
is now a well established, fully integrated 
business communications provider. During the 
year the Company has proven the value of its 
integrated offering to the enlarged customer 
base by successfully cross-selling its 
expanded range of products and services. 
These results include full year contributions 
from all six acquisitions with the exception  
of EDC, which is included for the eight months 
since acquisition. 
Results
As a result of both acquisitive and organic 
growth – including initial sales from over  
£7 million of cross-selling contract wins signed 
during the year – revenues are up markedly,  
by 18% to £19.7 million (2008: £16.7 million). 
Most significantly, underlying EBITDA (defined 
as operating profit after adding back charges 
for depreciation, amortisation, share-based 
payments and exceptional costs) increased  
by 61% to £1.5 million (2008: £0.9 million).  
The results, and in particular the impressive 
growth in earnings, demonstrate ongoing 
success in the execution of the Company’ s 
“Acquire, Integrate, Grow” strategy.  
The economies of selectively bolting on 
acquired assets are now evident.
“During the year the Company has proven the 
value of its integrated offering to the enlarged 
customer base by successfully cross-selling its 
expanded range of products and services.”
02
Lord St John of Bletso, Chairman
Chairman’ s statement The previously reported decline in profitability 
from the T echnologies Division continues  
to adversely impact Group profits. However, 
this decline, combined with rapid growth in  
the Business Division, has reduced our 
exposure to riskier and more volatile wholesale 
markets. 52% of overall Group revenues in 
2009 result from the Business Division’ s higher 
quality, contracted B2B revenues, compared 
to 40% in 2008. This trend has continued 
since the year end.
Dividend 
SpiriT el is still pursuing its acquisition, integration 
and growth strategy and is continuing to  
invest funds into the business. The Directors 
are therefore not recommending the payment 
of a dividend for the year to 30 April 2009.
Proposed debt conversion 
Since the year end, we have agreed a further 
planned restructuring of the indebtedness  
to Penta Capital Partners (“Penta”) in our 
balance sheet, the terms of which will be 
communicated to shareholders in a circular 
that also convenes a shareholder meeting to 
approve the transaction. The proposals include 
Penta converting up to £6.9 million of debt into 
equity at a price of 0.6p per ordinary share. 
The Directors consider that the proposals will 
significantly strengthen the balance sheet and 
better position the Company to raise capital for 
acquisitions. This is an important step for the 
Group and we value Penta’ s support through 
their proposed debt for equity conversion.
Outlook
Whilst the Business Division has continued  
to perform in line with expectations, trading 
remains challenging for the T echnologies 
Division and we do not foresee a significant 
turnaround in its core wholesale markets. 
However, the T echnologies Division continues 
to add significant value through managing  
our IP-based infrastructure, on which several  
of the Business Division’ s product solutions  
are based.
The Group now benefits from much higher 
levels of earnings visibility, due to the  
Business Division’ s emphasis on contracted 
and recurring revenues from SMEs and larger 
corporate customers. This, combined with  
a wide range of business-critical products  
and services, means SpiriT el is well positioned 
to weather the ongoing economic storm. 
Through a combination of further earnings 
enhancing acquisitions for the Business 
Division and organic growth, driven by the 
cross-selling of an integrated product portfolio, 
we expect to continue to increase revenue  
and earnings for the benefit of all shareholders.
Lord St John of Bletso
Chairman 
30 September 2009
“Through a combination of further earnings 
enhancing acquisitions we expect to continue  
to increase revenue and earnings for the  
benefit of all shareholders.”
03
