 02
SpiriTel plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
Chairman’s statement
Introduction
I am pleased to report on a further year
of growth and development for SpiriTel plc.
The Group is now a fully integrated business
communications provider delivering fixed and
mobile, voice, data and networking services
to a wide range of business customers across
the UK.
SpiriTel has made significant progress this
year and is a radically transformed business.
The Group is currently profitable with strong
cash flows and a robust debt and equity
structure following the initial £2.6 million Penta
debt conversion in May 2008. The operational
restructuring and rebuilding of the business
that we began some two years ago was
only completed during the year under review
and so this set of results reflects only partially
the transformation achieved by the
management team.
Results
Underlying EBITDA* has moved from a loss
in 2007 of £0.9 million to a profit of £0.9 million
and revenue was up 22% to £16.7 million
(2007: £13.6 million). Gross profit increased
by 215% to £6.4 million (2007: £2.0 million)
with gross profit margins up to 38.5% from
14.9% in 2007. These margin improvements
are a result of both enhanced margins
on continued operations and an improving
product mix towards higher margin products
and services. Acquisitions have also contributed
to the increased profits of the business and
the level of operational gearing has enabled
us to deliver higher earnings from these
acquired businesses.
“The Group is now very well placed to
progress its chosen strategy further towards
robust, accelerating profitability and value
delivery to our shareholders.”
Lord St John of Bletso, Chairman
* Operating profit after adding back charges for depreciation,
amortisation, share-based payments and exceptional costs. 03
SpiriTel plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
These results are a significant achievement
for SpiriTel and demonstrate that the progress
made in restructuring and realigning the
business is now flowing through to revenue
and profit enhancement. The two acquisitions
made in the year under review, tdotcom
Limited and WN1 Limited, contributed for
only six months and one month respectively.
We look forward to incorporating a full year’s
earnings from these businesses, which
should deliver a significantly enhanced level
of profitability in the current financial year.
Dividend
SpiriTel is still pursuing its acquisition strategy
and therefore reinvesting funds generated from
operations into the business. The Directors are
not recommending the payment of a dividend
for the year to 30 April 2008.
Board
As reported in our interim statements,
we appointed Ronnie Smith to the Board as
the Group’s Chief Financial Officer following his
tenure as Finance Director. We also appointed
David Anahory as Managing Director of SpiriTel
Business. David joined us from Carphone
Warehouse where he was the Commercial
Director responsible for over 100,000 customers
in their Business division.
Both Ronnie and David are integral to the
success of the business and played significant
roles over the course of the financial year
in the delivery of much improved financial and
operational performance.
I am also pleased to report that our Chief
Executive, Alastair Mills, received personal
recognition for the Group’s progress with
a nomination as a finalist for the 2008 Ernst
& Young Entrepreneur of the Year award.
The award is recognised globally and marks
entrepreneurial spirit, innovation and outstanding
leadership and drive. I congratulate him
on this achievement.
Current year and outlook
Revenues and profitability are currently running
at levels significantly above those of a year
ago with earnings visibility from contracted
revenue continuing to grow. This is a reflection
of our acquisitions and the strong organic
growth being driven by our push to cross-sell
products and services into our expanded
customer base. We also achieved substantial
improvement in margins during the year under
review and these strong margins have been
maintained into the current financial year.
In June 2008, we completed the integration
of our most recent acquisition, mobile
specialist WN1 Communications, which has
now been fully re-branded as SpiriTel Mobile
and relocated to our Business division’s
Wigan office. We look forward to reporting
a full six months contribution from the WN1
acquisition in our next interim results.
During the year, we have successfully executed
our “Acquire, Integrate, Grow” strategy
and as a result the business has delivered
much improved financial and operational results.
The Group is now very well placed to further
progress its chosen strategy towards robust,
accelerating profitability and value delivery
to its shareholders.
Lord St John of Bletso
Chairman
3 August 2008
ACQUIRE
INTEGRATE
GROW
“During the year we have successfully executed
our strategy. Revenues and profitability are
currently running at levels significantly above
those of a year ago with earnings visibility from
contracted revenue continuing to grow”
q q
q
q
08-09
06-07
04-05 Lines of business
Over the last 19 years SpiriTel has grown
to become one of the UK’s leading providers
of integrated communications services for
business customers. Through our Business
Division, we provide a full range of voice, data,
networking and equipment product to over
1,500 customers. The Business division is
organised around three complementary lines
of business: IP Communications, Network
Services and Mobile.
04
SpiriTel plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
Our acquisition strategy involves buying quality
businesses with attractive customer bases,
integrating them swiftly and driving forward
the resulting synergy benefits of cost savings
and new sales opportunities.
ACQUIRE 05
SpiriTel plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
IP Communications
Network Services
The UK communications market is seeing
a rapid migration of its products and services
onto an IP based infrastructure. Through
our Technologies Division we have a market
leading next generation IP network that
underpins the Business Division’s product
offerings. IP Communications’ services include:
hosted VoIP and Wi-Fi services, structured
cabling, SIP lines and system sales and
maintenance. We have tier one IP interconnects
with many of the UK’ s leading carriers and have
the highest level of accreditation with Mitel,
one of the world’s largest IP communication
system vendors.
Alongside our leading edge IP based
product offering, we continue to service
our business customers with traditional calls,
lines and broadband services. Leveraging
our own switching infrastructure and five
points of presence, we can offer a competitive
cost base and the highest levels of service
quality through our longstanding relationships
with BT , Cable & Wireless, T elstra, Virgin Media,
Thus and other leading carriers.
L
Mobile
SpiriTel now offers a full mobile voice and data
offering to customers following the acquisition
of WN1 in April 2008. The Company has
been rebranded as SpiriTel Mobile and sits
within our rapidly growing Business Division.
The addition of mobile services to our
product portfolio has opened the opportunity
for the cross-selling of mobile voice, data
and converged services to our existing
customer base.
Companies acquired
CallPlan September 06
Networks Direct October 06
Ashland March 07
tdotcom October 07
WN1 April 08
5 06
SpiriTel plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 06
SpiriTel plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
2+2=5
Our acquisition strategy involves buying
quality businesses with attractive customer
bases, integrating them swiftly and driving
forward the resulting synergy benefits of cost
savings and new sales opportunities. We have
developed a bespoke integration framework
that is tailored to each transaction. Through
detailed planning and ongoing evaluation,
our framework ensures we prepare for and
execute each transaction to maximise the
anticipated synergies. We are proud of our track
record of successful transaction integration.
INTEGRATE
The quick and efficient integration of our acquisitions
is key to the rapid delivery of their earnings potential
and the successful cross-selling of our broadening
product offering into existing and new customers.
During the year we have demonstrated our ability
to speedily integrate two new businesses into SpiriTel
Business’ infrastructure, creating cost savings and
generating new cross-selling opportunities.
Underlying EBITDA £000
2006
(294)
(861)
938
2007 2008 07
SpiriTel plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
45 25
Days taken to integrate tdotcom Days taken to integrate WN1
In April 2008 we acquired WN1. WN1 is
a leading reseller of mobile voice, data and
BlackBerry services, and holds key industry
accreditations as an O2 Advance Partner,
T -Mobile Business Partner and a BlackBerry
Alliance Member. We completed the
integration of WN1 within 45 days including
it’s re-branding as SpiriTel Mobile within our
Business Division and its staff having moved
into our Wigan office with a number of back
office functions being merged.
tdotcom WN1
tdotcom, acquired in October 2007, was a loss
making business which we turned around,
following a 25 day integration, into a business
with an operating profit margin in excess of
30%. The process of integration involved cost
saving measures alongside cross selling
upsides and clearly demonstrated the success
of our model which we consider to be highly
replicable for future acquisitions. tdotcom
now forms part of our IP Communications
line of business. 08
SpiriTel plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
Customer growth
Alongside our ongoing strategy of growth through
selective, earnings enhancing acquisitions,
we are also delivering strong organic growth
across the Group. In our Technologies Division,
revenue and profit growth has been delivered
from an expanded product set and increased
spend from key customers. The Business Division
is seeing increasing organic growth opportunities
from the rapid expansion of its customer
numbers through acquisitions and the resulting
cross-selling opportunities. Having completed
five acquisitions in quick succession, product
penetration per customer is currently low
and we look forward to driving organic growth
by encouraging our customers to take more
products and services from the expanding
SpiriTel Business portfolio. Over the last three
years, our customer numbers have increased
rapidly and today we service the communication
needs of over 1,500 business customers.
SpiriTel has experienced rapid growth in revenues,
earnings and customer numbers. Among our
expanding customer base are a number of diverse
blue chip companies with whom we have longstanding
relationships. Our organic growth strategy includes
selling more products into each of our customers.
GROW
SpiriTel customers
2006
19
715
1,525
2007 2008 09
SpiriTel plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
810
New customers this year
Lufthansa
Wigan F .C. BlackBerry
Lufthansa is the internationally renowned airline
with activities spread over several divisions
ranging from passenger and freight transport
to aircraft maintenance and preparations.
In the UK, SpiriT el Mobile provides its staff with
a range of mobile voice and data services.
Wigan Athletic have been playing in the
Premiership since their promotion in 2005.
Alongside providing mobile voice and data
services to many of the players, SpiriT el IP
Communications installs and maintains the
fixed line telephone systems for the club.
As a BlackBerry® Alliance member, SpiriTel
is recognised as a BlackBerry Solution Provider
and has access to a large number of third
party applications and services for BlackBerry.
Our services include software and hardware
procurement and implementation.
Virgin Mobile
Virgin Mobile is the UK's leading mobile virtual
network operator (MVNO) with more than four
million customers. In November, Virgin Mobile
launched a new directory enquiries service as part
of its social investment program. 118 918 gives
20p from every call to two charities supporting
young people in the UK. 118 918 is a managed
service provided by SpiriT el T echnologies.
Red Carnation
Red Carnation is an award-winning, highly
acclaimed global collection of family-run five
and four star hotels. SpiriT el provides a full range
of voice, data, maintenance and networking
services to the Group.
Whitbread
Whitbread Plc is the UK’ s largest hotel and
restaurant company operating market-leading
businesses in the budget hotels and restaurant
sectors, employing over 33,000 people across
1,500 outlets. SpiriT el IP Communications
has been a supplier to the Group since 1999.
