 2	 SpiriTel	plc	Annual report and accounts 2010
Introduction
SpiriTel is fast developing into a business 
of genuine scale, delivering significant 
underlying profits. Although the results for 
the year under review do not reflect the full 
extent of our progress, I am delighted to 
report a period of further growth across all 
key operational and financial performance 
criteria. The Group successfully integrated 
five earnings enhancing acquisitions during 
the second half of the year to 30 April 2010 
and completed one further acquisition 
post year end. As a result, our current 
financial performance is far higher than 
the reported results. Importantly, we also 
generated significant organic growth of 15% 
from our proven strategy of cross selling 
our complete business communications 
portfolio to existing and acquired 
customers. Our value proposition 
continues to resonate with businesses 
and organisations operating in an era 
of austerity. 
Post year end almost 90% of revenues 
are attributable to our Business Division, 
which features a significant proportion of 
long-term contracts and the associated 
visibility of future earnings. In addition, we 
continue to benefit from the strong support 
of both Clydesdale Bank and Penta 
Capital, who were key in financing the initial 
turnaround of the Group and whose 
financial support during the year to 30 April 
2010 allowed us to achieve a further step 
forward in the performance and scale of 
the Group. Their ongoing financial support 
and backing of our management team will 
provide the springboard for us to continue 
to grow our share of the market.
SpiriTel’s value proposition was well 
illustrated by the recent award of a 
£5 million contract from Punch Taverns, 
to provide a converged voice and data 
service to 800 of their 7 ,100 UK sites. 
The contract win demonstrates that 
SpiriTel can now compete strongly in 
terms of price, technology and breadth 
of product offer and we believe that the 
Group remains well positioned to 
capitalise on improving market conditions. 
Results
Revenues for the year to 30 April 2010 
were up 8% year-on-year to £21.3 million 
(2009: £19.7 million). More significantly, 
Business Division revenues increased by 
71% which more than offset the previously 
indicated decline of Technologies Division 
revenues. SpiriTel Technologies is now 
focused on supporting the networking 
requirements of our rapidly growing 
Business Division. Underlying EBITDA* for 
the Group increased by 6% to £1.6 million 
(2009: £1.5 million), which masks a 70% 
rise in the Business Division Underlying 
EBITDA* to £3.1 million (2009: £1.8 million). 
SpiriTel Technologies Underlying EBITDA* 
declined from £1.1 million in the previous 
year to £0.1 million in the year to 30 April 
2010 and is no longer a significant 
contributor to Group earnings. The 
Group’s results include only part-year 
contributions from the five acquisitions that 
we completed during the year under 
review. In our interim results announced in 
January, we noted that the Business 
Division was delivering an annualised 
Underlying EBITDA* run rate in excess of 
£3.5 million and we are now trading 
significantly above this level. 
Dividend
SpiriTel is still pursuing its consolidation 
strategy and is continuing to invest 
any surplus funds into the business. 
The Directors are therefore not 
recommending the payment of a 
dividend for the year to 30 April 2010. 
Outlook
Whilst SpiriTel continues to operate in a 
challenging economic environment, we 
are realising the benefits of our increasing 
scale and a broad and innovative product 
set. These benefits are evident both in 
terms of the contracts we are winning and 
the Group’s ability to bolt-on acquisitions 
swiftly and efficiently with the cost and 
revenue synergies they bring. SpiriTel has 
a superb staff, all of whom have put in 
sterling work over the past year to open up 
pathways to growth at a time when general 
economic conditions have been less than 
favourable. The business continues to 
perform well in difficult times, significantly 
ahead of the reported results, and I am 
confident that we are well positioned to 
exploit the opportunities arising from the 
anticipated recovery of the wider economy.
Lord	St	John	of	Bletso
Chairman
27 September 2010
*Operating profit after adding back charges for 
depreciation, amortisation, share-based payments 
and exceptional costs.
Chairman’s	statement
“	 I	am	delighted	to	report	a	period	of	
further growth	across	all	key	operational	
and	financial	performance	criteria	and	
that	our	current	financial	performance	
is far	higher	than	the	reported	results.”
