 “We operate in a dynamic sector and the Board 
believes that we now stand at a particularly 
exciting point in the Company’ s development.”
SpiriT el has matured considerably in the year 
under review. Our sixth acquisition further 
enhances our reputation as a leading 
consolidator of the telecoms reseller sector 
and together with our success in cross-sales 
demonstrates our ability to deliver organic  
and acquisitive growth. As a management 
team, we are constantly reviewing acquisition 
opportunities that can grow earnings,  
enhance the product set and provide more 
cross-selling opportunities. We operate in  
a dynamic sector and the Board believes that 
we now stand at a particularly exciting point in 
the Company’ s development. The accelerating 
migration to converged communications  
is a driving force behind increased levels of 
corporate activity in the sector. Convergence  
is also changing customer behaviour with 
more businesses insisting that their supplier 
offers the full range of fixed, mobile, voice  
and data services. For those companies that 
have capital to deploy for acquisitions and  
an integrated product range to sell to business 
customers, these are exciting times.
Financial highlights
The year to 30 April 2009 represents  
a full year’ s contribution from all of SpiriT el’ s 
acquisitions to date, apart from EDC. This  
is reflected in significantly improved financial 
results despite one of the most challenging 
trading environments seen for many years, 
particularly in the T echnologies Division’ s 
wholesale markets. Performance was improved 
in each of the following key financial metrics:
Our acquisition strategy involves buying quality 
businesses with attractive customer bases, integrating 
them swiftly and driving forward the resulting synergy 
benefits of cost savings and new sales opportunities.
ACQUIRE
04
Alastair Mills, Chief Executive
Chief Executive’ s review –  Revenue up 18% to £19.7 million  
(2008: £16.7 million).
–  Gross profit up 19% to £7.6 million  
(2008: £6.4 million).
–  Underlying EBITDA* up 61% to £1.5 million 
(2008: £0.9 million).
The 18% increase in Group revenue is pleasing 
given the difficult economic conditions, but 
even more so is the 53% growth in Business 
Division revenues largely offsetting a 5% 
decline in the lower margin, wholesale services 
from the T echnologies Division. The increasing 
contribution from our Business Division 
represents a significant change in the Group’ s 
earnings profile. The majority of the Business 
Division’ s revenues are generated from 
long-term contracts, of up to seven years, 
providing a greater level of earnings visibility  
to the Group as a whole. 
The 61% increase in underlying EBITDA* 
demonstrates the success of our “Acquire, 
Integrate, Grow” model. 
 In particular, we are able to convert significant 
elements of gross profit directly into EBITDA 
by bolting acquisitions quickly and efficiently 
onto our already established operations and 
existing cost base. By effective profiling of 
newly-acquired customers, we then identify 
and pursue cross-sale opportunities.
The loss before taxation for the year was 
£1.7million (2008: £4.0million loss), after 
deducting non-cash finance charges of 
£0.8million (2008: £3.1million). The non-cash 
finance charges relate to IFRS costs on 
modification and conversion of indebtedness 
to Penta.
Since the year end we have agreed a 
proposed balance sheet restructuring with 
Penta converting up to £6.9 million of debt into 
equity at a price of 0.6p per ordinary share. 
This follows on from a similar £2.6 million debt 
to equity conversion by Penta in May 2008. 
The Directors believe that the proposed 
conversion of Penta debt will benefit SpiriT el  
in a number of ways. The Company will have a 
much stronger balance sheet, unencumbered 
by £6.9 million of Penta indebtedness and, at 
the conversion price, the proposed conversion 
will significantly increase the market 
capitalisation of the Company. In addition,  
the Company will not be liable for the £550,000  
annual interest cost which is due to accrue 
from May 2010. With a stronger balance sheet 
SpiriT el will be better positioned to raise capital 
and continue its recent successful acquisitive 
strategy, focusing on earnings enhancing 
transactions. Penta’ s support for SpiriT el is 
invaluable and we thank them for their 
continued faith in our business model and 
management team. 
We also continue to benefit from the support 
of Clydesdale Bank. During the year under 
review we secured an extension to our loan 
facility to fund the acquisition of ED 
Communications and at the year end we had 
a total facility of £3.4million with the bank. In 
May 2009 the Group’ s facilities were increased 
to £4.5million, repayable over five years. 
Strategy
Despite the ongoing consolidation in our 
sector, the UK telecommunications market 
remains highly fragmented. This, alongside  
the accelerating demand from customers  
for converged, IP-based services, provides  
the opportunity for us to further execute  
the Group’ s “Acquire, Integrate, Grow” strategy.  
Our strategy is to grow shareholder value 
through selective, earnings enhancing 
acquisitions, followed by consistent organic 
growth being driven by cross-selling our 
integrated product portfolio.
* Operating profit after adding back charges for depreciation, 
amortisation, share-based payments and exceptional costs.
05 SpiriT el continues to pursue selective 
acquisitions as we look to build a business  
with the operational scale and the broad 
product offering that business and corporate 
consumers increasingly demand. Having 
completed six acquisitions, led by the same 
management team, not only are we clear  
on the type of businesses that we are looking 
for in terms of quickly adding value to the 
Group, but we are also experienced in the 
critical phase of integration, which commences  
well in advance of completion of the deal.  
All acquisitions now follow the same integration 
framework which was developed internally  
to meet our corporate objectives. The process 
is led by a senior member of the management 
team and helps ensure that we maximise  
both cost and revenue synergy opportunities, 
whilst minimising disruption to the Group  
and the newly-acquired business.
We expect to continue to target growth 
through earnings enhancing acquisitions and 
following the proposed restructure of our 
balance sheet, we expect to be well positioned 
to raise new capital to deploy in the acquisition 
of new customers and products in order  
to enhance earnings. 
 In recent months we have been particularly 
encouraged by our successes in cross-sales 
of our growing product range to existing 
customers. During the 12 month period to 
April 2009, we secured cross-sales contracts 
valued at more than £7 million. This is 
contracted and recurring revenue and delivers 
a new level of earnings visibility to the Group. 
During the year we profiled our expanded 
customer base and estimated that our existing 
customers are spending a total of over  
£80 million on telecoms services that SpiriT el 
could potentially provide from our current 
product portfolio. Although rapidly growing, 
our penetration of this spend is currently less 
than 15% which illustrates the upside 
opportunity which we intend to exploit by 
deploying our successful cross-selling strategy. 
The quick and efficient integration of our acquisitions  
is key to the rapid delivery of their earnings potential 
and the successful cross-selling of our broadening 
product offering into existing and new customers.  
We have demonstrated our ability to speedily integrate 
new businesses into the SpiriT el Business 
infrastructure, creating cost savings and generating 
new cross-selling opportunities.
INTEGRATE
06
Alastair Mills, Chief Executive
Chief Executive’ s review continued Acquisitions
SpiriT el continued its recent series of 
acquisitions this year with the purchase of ED 
Communications, which added approximately 
700 business customers who were rapidly 
integrated into our Networks line of business. 
This acquisition provides a typical example  
of how the Group is now able to bolt on a 
customer base efficiently and then enhance  
its contribution through cost synergies and 
cross-selling. The total consideration for  
this company will total £1.4 million, including 
earn out.
The full year contribution from mobile business 
WN1, acquired in April 2008, proved even 
more successful than we had hoped and this 
line of business continues to deliver strong 
organic growth. WN1 is highly profitable and,  
by adding a range of mobile voice and data 
services, the transaction completed our 
integrated product portfolio. Since the year 
end, converged voice and data mobile 
solutions have grown to over one third of our 
total mobile sales. Not only are we delighted 
with the earnings contribution from WN1, now 
integrated as SpiriT el Mobile, but the mobility 
offering is a differentiator in comparison to 
many competitors who are limited to a fixed 
line offering. 
During the year we looked closely at a number 
of acquisition opportunities, including several 
larger companies. We believe we have 
demonstrated our ability to grow shareholder 
value from the selective addition of bolt on 
acquisitions and we continue to actively 
pursue opportunities which deliver short-term 
earnings enhancement benefits and cross-sell 
opportunities. 
Operations
SpiriT el’ s customer base now numbers some 
2,300 separate accounts for business and 
public sector companies and organisations. 
Greater customer numbers result in increased 
cross-selling opportunities and although we 
focus on larger customers more than many  
of our competitors, the size of the base is an 
obvious, yet important key performance 
indicator for the Business Division. The current 
customer base is 53% larger than at April 
2008 and 227% above 2007 levels. 
Our customers are served by our two 
complementary Divisions: SpiriT el Business 
and SpiriT el T echnologies – working alongside 
and supporting each other. The Business 
Division has three lines of business: IP 
Communications, Networks and Mobile. 
SpiriT el IP Communications provides an 
advanced range of IP networking services  
to business customers alongside traditional 
structured cabling, equipment and 
maintenance services. SpiriT el Networks offers 
fixed line services including calls, lines and 
broadband. SpiriT el Mobile provides mobile 
voice and data services, including BlackBerry 
and other converged voice and data services.
SpiriT el has achieved the highest O2 
accreditation and is one of just a few O2 
Centre of Excellence (CoE) partners in the UK.  
The O2 Centre of Excellence is an industry 
leading programme which continues to set 
demanding qualifying criteria, including 
exceptional customer service and commitment 
to the business sector. 
SpiriT el is also a member of the BlackBerry 
Alliance. SpiriT el provides the BlackBerry® 
solution allowing users to stay connected  
with wireless access to email, corporate data, 
phone, web and organiser features. With  
a BlackBerry solution, you can enhance the 
productivity of your organisation by pushing 
data out to where it’ s needed most – your 
mobile workforce.
SpiriT el has a longstanding relationship  
with Mitel, one of the world’ s leading providers  
of IP based communications solutions for 
business customers. After a continued period 
of investment in training and support on  
both sides, SpiriT el has achieved the highest 
accreditation possible – Premier Partner.  
Using a Mitel 3600 platform, SpiriT el also  
rolled out two of the UK’ s largest hosted VoIP 
contracts for Regent Inns and Youngs. We are 
also an accredited Mitel Hospitality specialist.
07 SpiriT el has experienced rapid growth in revenues, 
earnings and customer numbers. Among our 
expanding customer base are a number of diverse  
blue chip companies with whom we have longstanding 
relationships. Our organic growth strategy includes 
selling more products into each of our customers.
GROW
Whilst ensuring our team delivers an 
exceptional level of customer service, during 
the year we have focused on cost control  
and despite the EDC acquisition and the 
associated addition of 700 new customers 
staff numbers have only risen to 109 at the 
year end. (2008: 104). We continue to offer 
nationwide engineering coverage to our 
customers along with 24/7/365 support.  
We have also been able to reduce our cost 
base through the utilisation of our own 
technological expertise in the remote 
management of customer sites. Over 70%  
of customer faults reported to our IP 
Communications service team are now  
fixed remotely from our operations centres  
in London and Wigan, with no employee  
visit to the customer’ s site being required. 
A key aspect of our Business Division is  
its ability to act as a one stop shop for 
business customers by providing a fully 
integrated product offering. Whilst we remain 
cautious on heavy investment in the research 
and development of new technology, our 
strategic partnerships with leading vendors 
such as O2 and Mitel enable us to remain  
well positioned to capitalise on the rapidly  
changing telecoms market. 
Of particular note is the continued growth  
of our hosted VoIP offering, where extensions 
sold and supported grew by 86% over the 
year. Major contract wins included hosted 
VoIP , as part of a managed services contract, 
across Young & Co Brewery’ s estate and 
SpiriT el’ s success was recognised when we 
won the VoIP Solution of the Year award in 
October 2008 at the National Comms 
Business Awards. SpiriT el also won a number 
of other industry awards over the past year 
and continues to build on the excellent 
relationships that we have forged with industry 
leading partners including 02, BlackBerry and 
Mitel. Our newly acquired Mobile business also 
achieved 02 Centre of Excellence status in 
August 2008. 
T o support integration of acquisitions and 
ensure we maximise the cross-sell opportunity 
for all acquired customer bases, we 
implemented a Group-wide CRM facility during 
the year. Following several notable cross-selling 
wins in early 2009, we achieved our largest 
cross-sale to date in May 2009, a 30 month 
network services deal with a global hotel group 
that is expected to generate up to £4 million  
in revenue over the contract term. The deal 
involved SpiriT el replacing BT , who still has  
an estimated 50% total market share, as 
supplier. The contract win provides evidence  
of our ability to service major corporates  
as well as our 2,300 SME customers and  
also illustrates clearly the steps we are taking  
to maximise the significant cross-sell 
opportunities we are identifying. 
Awards
National Business  
Awards 2008 
SpiriT el named finalists.
Channel Networks 
Awards 2009 
SpiriT el and Alastair Mills 
named finalists.
International  
Directories Awards 
Virgin Mobile Directory 
Enquiry service  
provided by SpiriT el  
wins Best Newcomer. 
VoIP Solution  
of the Y ear Award 
SpiriT el wins. 
Wigan Business  
Awards 2008 
SpiriT el and Alastair Mills 
named finalists.
Channel Entrepreneur  
of the Y ear Award 
SpiriT el wins. 
Enterprise Convergence 
Solution Award 2009 
SpiriT el wins.
08
Alastair Mills, Chief Executive
Chief Executive’ s review continued Summary and outlook
The year to 30 April 2009 was a year of 
significant progress for SpiriT el. We delivered 
strong revenue growth and an even greater 
uplift in underlying EBITDA*. We also continued 
to gain widespread recognition for the quality 
of our IP-based services and the innovation  
we have demonstrated in the delivery of 
converged communications services. 
Our strategy of targeted acquisitions  
which bring immediate earnings enhancement, 
and ongoing cross-sell opportunities, has seen 
revenue and profits rise substantially in the 
past year, as we start to benefit from full 
contributions from acquisitions. We have a 
highly scalable model where we can bolt  
on new, earnings enhancing assets whilst 
maintaining the delivery of consistent  
organic growth.
Whilst we have felt the challenges of a severe 
economic downturn and more specifically an 
ongoing, declining profitability in the wholesale 
markets, the contribution from our rapidly 
growing Business Division is very encouraging. 
We have demonstrated our ability to enhance 
earnings through acquisitions, followed up by 
significant cross-selling successes from our 
range of converged products and services  
into both new and existing customer bases. 
Although we are not immune to the impact  
of a recessionary economic environment,  
our product set is naturally defensive and our 
downside exposure is mitigated. We are 
witnessing a renewed and growing interest  
in cost savings that are prompting new  
sales opportunities. Our ability to add value  
to our customers through innovative and cost 
effective solutions, gives us confidence about 
our prospects through the economic downturn.
SpiriT el has an experienced and energised 
management team, and a highly skilled  
and committed staff who have together 
proved their ability to execute strategy.  
The foundations are in place to deliver ongoing 
value to shareholders and I look forward to  
the coming year with confidence.
Alastair Mills
Chief Executive 
30 September 2009
* Operating profit after adding back charges for depreciation, 
amortisation, share-based payments and exceptional costs.
09
