 SPORTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
 BUSINESS OVERVIEW
08
Chairman’s statement
Performance and dividend
It has been a year of strategic progress for the Group. Our 
highly regulated gaming businesses in the US, which now 
represent 60% of the Group’s revenues, continue to grow 
and take advantage of our unique regulatory and licensing 
position. The Football Pools had a solid year, taking 
important steps to arrest the decline in customers and 
generating strong cash flows.
During the year, the Group acquired Data Tote in order 
to strengthen our European operations, established joint 
ventures with NYX Gaming and Picklive US to focus on the 
emerging iGaming and fantasy sports markets in the US, 
and disposed of our loss-making UK focused e-Gaming 
business. These strategic transactions leave the Group 
increasingly focused on our key growth markets and 
the opportunities they present. 
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 
amounted to 1.7p (2012: 0.3p). Adjusted profit before tax 
from continuing operations was £14.5m (2012: £14.9m), 
with adjusted basic earnings per share of 5.3p (2012: 5.4p), 
primarily as a result of an increased depreciation charge.
Your Board is focused on growing the business and using its 
cash flows to develop the opportunities presented primarily 
in the US. To facilitate this, and as in previous years, no 
dividend is proposed for the year ended 31 December 2013. 
The Board continues to assess the appropriate time to 
commence dividend payments.
SUMMARY
→  A year of strategic progress 
for the Group
→  Earnings per share from continuing 
operations amounted to 1.7p 
(2012: 0.3p)
→  We have the right strategy 
in place to capitalise on 
unique opportunities
“ Y our Board is focused on growing 
the business and using its cash 
flows to develop the opportunities 
presented primarily in the US.” ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 SPORTECH PLC
 BUSINESS OVERVIEW CORPOR A TE GOVERNANCE STR A TEG IC R E P ORT FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
09
To support delivery of these opportunities we have 
combined the Tote Services and Interactive Products 
divisions into one larger organisation, Sportech Racing 
and Digital. Together with Sportech Venues and The 
Football Pools, this focused divisional structure will 
drive the Group's future performance.
Board effectiveness
As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring your 
Board remains effective. I work closely with Ian Penrose, 
Sportech’s Chief Executive, to ensure your Board provides 
the appropriate support and guidance to the Executive 
team. The Board carries out an annual performance review 
in December of each year, analysing the effectiveness 
and efficiency of the Board, the Board members and the 
individual Committees. As a by-product of this, the Board 
has decided to extend the duration of each Board meeting 
and hold three Board meetings a year at its US operating 
businesses. This will ensure that the quality and depth of 
discussion is increased and, as a consequence, we have 
reduced the number of scheduled Board meetings a year 
from nine to seven.
→ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE p28-35
Last year we endeavoured to implement changes to 
our Directors' Remuneration Report. This year we have 
implemented the Department of Business, Innovation 
and Skills requirements in full, and you can read the 
report on pages 37 to 53. Our objective is to ensure 
that remuneration arrangements clearly reflect our 
strategic objectives and that the interests of management 
and shareholders are properly aligned.
Board and employees
There have been a number of changes to the Board during 
the financial year. Cliff Baty was appointed Chief Financial 
Officer on 14 May 2013. Cliff brings with him considerable 
industry experience, having previously worked in senior 
financial roles at Ladbrokes plc. Rich Roberts was appointed 
to the Board as a Non-executive Director on 3 December 2013. 
Rich lives in New Jersey, US, and has many years' experience 
developing businesses in the digital, mobile, social and 
iGaming markets in the US. I am pleased to welcome them 
both to the Sportech Board.
→ BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY p24-25
John Barnes resigned from the Board on 3 December 2013 
following seven years as a Non-executive Director, and 
Mor Weizer resigned from the Board on 20 June 2013. I would 
like to thank both John and Mor for their contributions, and in 
particular, John for his longstanding commitment to the Group.
Sportech’s international reach and large customer base 
places large demands on our Executives and employees 
and the Board would like to thank them for their dedication 
and commitment to the Group.
Outlook
Looking ahead, I believe we have the right strategy in place 
to capitalise on the significant opportunities that exist for 
Sportech across its divisions and I look forward to working 
with the Board and Executive team to build on the 
successes to date.
Roger Withers
Chairman
5 March 2014
