 Performance
Our Sportech Racing and Digital division 
has grown EBITDA through delivery of a 
new system and software to Danske Spil, 
the Danish state monopoly, together with 
the commencement of delivery of a new 
system for Totepool, a deal worth £9.0m 
in revenue over ten years. Sportech Venues 
in Connecticut had a difficult year as a result 
of the severe East Coast weather and the 
loss of higher staking player revenues. 
The amounts wagered across the entire US 
thoroughbred horseracing market declined 
by more than 2.5% over the year showing the 
tough operating environment faced by these 
businesses. We opened a flagship sports bar 
and restaurant within our existing facility at 
Bradley. This venue has received excellent 
customer feedback and revenues and 
profitability is improving. The Football 
Pools had a solid year, continuing with 
its modernisation of systems, successfully 
launching a new online platform and increasing 
the number of new customers. Following a 
revision to the underlying assumptions, to 
reflect a stable earnings profile, an impairment 
was applied to The Football Pools goodwill 
during the year.
Other strategic achievements included: 
securing a contract with Resorts Casino in New 
Jersey, through our joint venture with NYX 
Gaming Group, to supply the online casino 
platform and support services; and securing 
approvals to build a betting venue, restaurant 
and sports bar in Stamford, Connecticut as 
well as two betting venues and sports bars 
in California. The difficulty in obtaining such 
approvals should not be underestimated and, 
as such, the value of these assets to the Group. 
The Board and Executive management are 
focused on expanding our US footprint and 
maximising the potential opportunities.
Shareholder value
Our task is to deliver value to our shareholders 
and we hold this goal in mind in all our 
deliberations. Our earnings have been 
impacted this year by factors I describe above, 
but strategic progress has also been made 
towards achieving the Company’s long-term 
goals which will deliver enhanced value to 
our shareholders. 
As the Board continues to implement its 
strategy of growing the Group’s presence and 
opportunities in the US, resources are being 
Chairman’s statement
Delivering value for our shareholders
Dear Shareholder
It has been an extremely busy year for 
the Group. We have faced many challenges 
which have impacted our annual results 
but have made progress towards our  
long-term strategic goals. 
24 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Outlook
It has been a challenging year but looking 
ahead, I believe the Group can make 
significant progress towards achieving its 
long-term objectives during 2015 and I look 
forward to working with the Board and 
Executive team to deliver the valuable returns 
the opportunities present.
Corporate governance report
The following report is intended to outline 
the Group’s corporate governance structure, 
policies and procedures and inform 
shareholders of the activities of the Board 
and its Committees during the year to 
31 December 2014. I trust the report is 
informative and insightful for shareholders 
and demonstrates the Board’s commitment to 
high standards of governance and I welcome 
any feedback or comment from shareholders 
or other stakeholders.
Our report to you on corporate governance 
explains how we approach and implement 
the principles of good governance across 
Sportech and the level of importance we give 
to each area. The effectiveness of our Board 
is a key priority, as we believe this to be 
fundamental in order to deliver on business 
objectives and ultimately to deliver shareholder 
value, whilst operating in an ethical way. 
Our Committees are structured to ensure 
the responsibilities of the Board are carried 
out effectively and in line with best practice 
procedure. Detail on each Committee and its 
responsibilities and duties carried out during 
the year under review can be found within 
this report.
We will continue to strive for best practice 
governance. We use our time together 
as a Board, and our communications with 
Directors outside of formal meetings, to 
address the core responsibilities of strategy, 
review of financial and operational 
performance, review of risk management 
and internal controls. This ensures the 
composition of the Board delivers an 
effective governing body for Sportech.
Roger Withers
Non-executive Chairman
4 March 2015
diverted to this goal. As such, no dividend is 
proposed for the year to 31 December 2014. 
The Board continues to assess the appropriate 
time to commence dividend payments.
VAT claim
It was disappointing that the Upper Tribunal 
upheld HMRC’s appeal in September 2014, 
in relation to the £96m VAT repayment claim 
regarding the Spot the Ball game, following 
the First-tier Tax Tribunal finding in the 
Group’s favour in March 2013. The Group has 
now been granted permission to appeal to 
the Court of Appeal and the hearing will take 
place in November this year.
Governance
As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring 
your Board remains effective. I work closely 
with Ian Penrose, Sportech’s Chief Executive, 
to ensure your Board provides the appropriate 
support and guidance to the Executive team. 
This Annual Report as a whole is considered 
by the Board to be “fair, balanced and 
understandable” as is required by the 
Combined Code.
Board and employees
Rich Roberts was appointed President: 
Sportech Digital on 14 July 2014, after  
being with the Group seven months as an 
Independent Non-executive Director. Rich 
brings with him extremely valuable industry 
experience, having been CEO of Slingo Inc., 
the New Jersey-based gaming and mobile 
social gaming business. Rich lives in New 
Jersey, and has many years’ experience 
developing businesses in the digital, mobile, 
social and iGaming markets in the US. In April 
2014, Lorne Weil stepped down from the 
Board following three and a half years with 
the Group. Lorne’s contribution to the Board 
since the acquisition of the racing division 
of Scientific Games Inc. has been invaluable 
and I thank him for his support and insight. 
Ian Hogg resigned from the Board in 
September 2014 after four years as a Board 
member. I wish him well for the future and 
thank him for his contribution to the Group. 
Sportech is a geographically diverse business 
which places significant demands upon 
Executives and employees, and the Board 
would like to thank them for their continued 
dedication and commitment to the business.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements
