  STR A TEG IC R E P ORT
SPORTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
Chief Executive’s review
Overview 
Sportech is one of the world's leading operators and suppliers 
of pools betting services, occupying a unique position in the 
highly regulated and emerging gaming markets worldwide.
In 2010, Sportech established itself as one of the largest 
European based gaming businesses with significant operations 
in the United States. Since that time, the Group has continued 
to invest in its businesses, such that over 60% of Group 
revenues are now generated from our US-based operations, 
where we are licensed by gaming regulators in 24 states, 
employing 700 people across field operations and four 
corporate offices. 
The Group’s focus continues to be to build a multi-platform 
(retail, telephone and online) dynamic gaming business in the 
US. Initially focusing on the legal and highly regulated gaming 
operations of horseracing and greyhounds, we will seek to take 
advantage of organic business development opportunities. 
Subsequently we plan to use this strong and expanding 
platform to position the Group for broader-based gaming 
opportunities as regulation evolves over the coming years.
SUMMARY
→  The Group has delivered a good set 
of results in a transformational year
→  We have strengthened the 
management team and Board
→  We remain well positioned for future 
growth in the US market and have 
entered 2014 with confidence
“ The Group has continued to 
invest in its businesses, so that 
over 60% of the Group revenues 
are now generated from our 
US‑based operations.”
10  BUSINESS OVERVIEW CORPOR A TE GOVERNANCE STR A TEG IC R E P ORT FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 SPORTECH PLC 11
During 2013, the Group made good progress in line with its 
strategy. We continued to invest in our operations, to leverage 
our unique exclusive licensing position in Connecticut, US, and 
last month launched both the only legal website in Connecticut 
for betting on horseracing, and opened a flagship sports bar, 
restaurant and betting facility in Bradley. The investment is 
aimed at increasing the distribution of racing, and widening the 
exposure and thrill of betting on horseracing to a sport-based 
audience. In another major step forward, we were able to 
develop our extensive operations in California (where we 
process all betting on horseracing, around $1.8bn per annum) 
by obtaining a licence to develop a chain of branded betting 
venues, restaurants and sports bars. The first venue will open in 
Norco, near Los Angeles, in the summer of 2014. Furthermore, 
we have invested in our core tote betting technology, and in 
December launched a suite of market-leading online and 
mobile betting products for our customers.
Corporately, and in line with our strategy of enhancing our 
product range in the US, we established joint ventures with 
NYX Gaming and Picklive US to focus on the emerging iGaming 
and significant fantasy sports markets. Furthermore, we 
acquired Data T ote for an initial consideration of £3.1m in order 
to strengthen our European tote betting operations, whilst our 
loss-making UK-focused e-Gaming business was sold towards 
the end of the year for £3.0m. These strategic transactions 
leave the Group increasingly focused on the attractive 
opportunities in our key growth markets.
The Group has also made a number of organisational changes, 
establishing three key divisions. We have created Sportech 
Racing and Digital, which combined the former Sportech 
Racing, Sportech Interactive Products and Services and also 
eBet, in order to create one cohesive, larger division to provide 
all terrestrial, online and mobile betting technology products to 
our customers. This division is managed by Andrew Gaughan. 
Our Sportech Venues business, operating Connecticut's 
exclusive betting operations in retail venues, on the telephone 
and now online at MyWinners.com, is led by T ed T aylor, and our 
UK Football Pools business is led by Conleth Byrne. As a 
consequence of the increase in the Group's activities overseas 
and the reduction of activity in the UK following the sale of the 
loss-making e-Gaming activity, Ian Hogg has decided to leave 
the Group at, or before, the end of the year for personal reasons 
as he does not wish to increase his duties overseas.
The Group is pleased to have increased its EBITDA from 
continuing operations in 2013 by £0.8m to £26.0m with EBITDA 
from US-based activities increasing by over 20%. The Football 
Pools business delivered a strong performance with EBITDA 
of £17.4m, representing 58% of Group EBITDA before central 
costs. The Football Pools division is making good progress 
towards stabilisation of its direct revenues and generates strong 
cash flows.
Outlook
We have launched a number of growth initiatives in February 
this year, notably the exclusive online betting website and the 
innovative sports bar, restaurant and betting facility, both in 
Connecticut. We continue to make progress in California, and 
our new technology developments are being well received by 
customers. However, the severe snow storms and extreme cold 
weather across the east coast of the US have resulted in the 
closure of our retail venues on several days this year, and there 
have been 170 race cancellations to date in 2014 compared to 
54 in 2013. Whilst this has impacted on the performance of our 
US operations, the Board remains confident in the Group's 
prospects for the full year ahead.
Ian Penrose
Chief Executive
5 March 2014
