 14 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Overview
Regulation in brief
The speed of regulation has increased  
dramatically in the last twelve months
This time last year, operators were 
reeling from the regulation of the 
French market. The introduction of 
a new tax regime together with our 
low market share and the cost of the 
IT work required to obtain a licence in 
France, led us to conclude that it was 
economically unviable and we therefore 
chose to withdraw from the French 
market in May 2010. Since then we have 
blocked all services to French citizens. 
Italy was next with its updated gambling 
bill permitting a number of non-
Italian bookmakers to obtain licences 
to operate online. In July 2011 Italy 
extended its licensable offerings to 
include cash ring games for poker and 
other casino games. Whilst the technical 
requirements are unique and complex, 
the basic economics of the approach 
are heading in the right direction for 
both operators and customers alike.
Since then we have seen both Spain and 
Greece publish gambling bills, although 
they are still yet to issue licences. Spain 
is due to start its licence application 
process in November 2011 with the first 
licences expected during December. As 
for Greece, we await the announcement 
of the new licensing regime, amidst 
news that tax may be payable during 
the period prior to this announcement. 
Further North, and we had high hopes 
for regulation in Denmark. Unfortunately, 
the process has recently been postponed 
pending input from the EU Commission. 
We expect a decision imminently. 
We are confident that in the new 
financial year we will have licences 
in Denmark, Italy and Spain. We will 
continue operating in a regulated 
Greek market with our successful 
Greek business however it is 
unclear if the Greek regulator will 
have resolved its licencing process 
during this financial year.
The European Union recently 
published a “Green Paper” which 
called on all Member States in the 
EU to consider all the potential 
issues in relation to online gambling, 
including a form of harmonisation. 
Given the timescales involved in 
implementing this Green Paper compared 
with the rate at which EU members 
are moving towards regulation, such 
harmonisation is unlikely to occur in 
the short-term, and the most likely 
trend to continue is for jurisdictions 
to introduce licensing regimes which 
may or may not be tempered by 
European Commission intervention. 
Here in the UK the government 
announced (in July 2011) its intention to 
proceed with plans regarding a system 
for the regulation of remote gambling 
in the UK. This will also look at whether 
operators who advertise in the UK 
should face new regulatory requirements 
– which would attract consequential 
licence fees – to ensure a more even 
financial treatment of both UK and non-
UK operators who target this market. 
Further afield and in Australia we 
have begun to see a growing trend to 
impose product fees (e.g. race fields 
and sporting fixtures) which essentially 
add an additional tax to that paid by 
the operator in the state in which the 
operator is licensed. We continue our 
discussions regarding the provision 
of our other products (casino, games 
and poker) as well as in:play which 
remain prohibited in Australia. 
The United States continue to prohibit 
online gambling. Following our 
settlement with the Department of 
Justice in September 2010, we believe 
we can now draw a line under our 
previous activities in the United States. 
As for Asia, we have no operations or 
activities due to the prohibitive regulatory 
regimes in many Asian countries. 
The Sportingbet Group continues 
to provide its services only from 
jurisdictions where is it licensed and 
regulated, and therefore the position 
in its place of supply (and where its 
regulator and applicable local laws 
deem the gambling transaction to 
take place) is explicitly legal. 
In order to provide our worldwide 
gambling service, the Sportingbet Group 
currently maintains licences in Alderney, 
Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, Curaçao, 
Malta, South Africa and the UK.  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 15
OVERVIEW
Case Study – Spain
We currently find ourselves in a 
transition period between the 
passing of the parliamentary bill 
in July and the award of licences 
before Christmas. During this 
period we continue to operate 
in Spain with the consent of 
the regulator, providing we pay 
25% gross profit tax during 
this period. Failure to pay this 
tax would invalidate any licence 
application later in the year.
The Spanish regulator is taking 
an approach between that of 
France and Denmark with a 25% 
gross profit tax on fixed odds 
betting. Sports betting is allowed 
with an approved catalogue 
of markets. Poker, roulette, 
backgammon and baccarat are 
also all allowed. Slots, lottery and 
scratch cards are not allowed.
Whilst there is no certainty on 
the overall impact of regulation 
on Spanish profitability in the 
short-term, we are confident that 
the Sportingbet Group will be 
able to overcome the immediate 
increases in operating costs 
from both tax and increased 
marketing activities as we have 
proven in the Australian market. 
Spain represents one 
of our largest markets 
accounting for 13% of 
net gaming revenue. 
With the passing of a 
new online gambling 
bill earlier this year, we 
expect the application 
and licensing process 
to commence in 
November 201 1.
goaldifference
A more detailed review of how 
regulation has impacted our 
business over the last twelve 
months is given in Regulatory 
Developments on pages 45 to 47. 16 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Business fundamentals
Building from external 
growth drivers Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 17
Smart phone take up
The take up of our mobile product 
is expected to continue to grow 
significantly over the next three years 
as smart phone and tablet penetration 
is expected to exceed 50% in the 
markets we serve. Worldwide 3G 
subscriptions were above 900 million 
in 2010 as consumers continued to 
demand anytime, anywhere access 
to applications and services.
Broadband penetration
Our growth strategy continues to take 
advantage of ever increasing global 
broadband penetration, allowing 
customers to benefit from improved 
connection speeds. With data travelling 
at a faster rate, the user experience 
is enhanced and product innovation 
can take advantage of improvements 
to the distribution channel.
Global sports
Sports have now become established 
as global brands, as individual 
teams, leagues and sports become 
supported in areas well outside 
their traditional heartlands.
The English Football Premier 
League now broadcasts in over 200 
territories, with a global audience 
of around 500 million people. 
Confidence in internet transactions
The rise in secure online transactions, 
reflected in the continued increase 
in internet banking, online shopping 
and other ecommerce activities 
leaves us well placed as the betting 
community becomes increasingly 
accustomed with the internet as a 
purchasing tool in everyday life. 18 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Business review
Overview
This has been a year of significant 
progress for the Group both in terms 
of financial performance and corporate 
developments. We have delivered a 
strong set of financial results with 
EBITDA increasing 11% to £51.4m. The 
benefits of operating across a broad 
geographical base were demonstrated 
with strong growth in our Emerging 
Markets division, Australia and some of 
our European territories, offsetting the 
economic weakness in Greece and Spain.
With the acquisition of Centrebet in 
Australia and the passing of regulations 
in two of our largest markets, 
Greece and Spain, Sportingbet is 
now well positioned to maximise the 
European opportunities available to 
it as the global online gaming market 
continues to develop and regulate.
Our overall strategy of providing a first 
class sports betting product offering 
customers an unprecedented number 
of betting opportunities at all times of 
the day, remains unchanged. This is 
underpinned by our proprietary best-
in-class in:play offer, superb trading 
team and focus on giving customers 
what they want especially in new 
growth areas such as mobile.
The Group has had a solid start to 
the new financial year with NGR in 
the first two months 17% above 
the same period last year.
runawayleader
Sportingbet Group
Sportingbet is one of the world’s leading 
online gaming operators with divisions 
focused on Europe (which includes 
Emerging Markets in Africa and South 
America) and Australia. The European 
operation is based in the Channel Islands, 
operating under a licence provided 
by the Alderney Gambling Control 
Commission. This is supported by an 
operational centre in Dublin providing 
customer services and administrative 
support. The Group’s Australian division 
is based in Darwin operating under 
a licence provided by the Northern 
Territory Government. In total the 
Group now employs over 600 people. 
Betting on sports is at the heart of the 
Sportingbet business, accounting for 
71% (2010: 69%) of Group gross gaming 
revenue. The growth in sports betting 
of 4.6% has primarily been driven by 
bets placed whilst the game is ‘in:play’, 
which accounts for 67% of European 
amounts wagered. Our in:play product 
has been growing strongly at 24% per 
annum over the last three years and 
with an in:play margin of 9.7% (2010: 
9.3%), we continue to be the industry 
leader. In addition, in:play traded in 
450 out of the 500 distinct football 
divisions we offered in 2010/11 and 
we currently trade between 800-900 
football matches in:play per week. Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 19
BUSINESS REVIEW
Although football is our core product, 
accounting for 42% of gross gaming 
revenue, the Group offers betting 
markets on all major global sports. 
We have successfully implemented our 
internally developed football and tennis 
derivatives programmes and taken our 
in:play service on these two sports to a 
higher level of differentiation both on 
pricing and market types. As an example 
we have implemented our internally 
developed football instants market, 
offering next corner, next free kick and 
next throw-in on more than 75% of all 
in:play football matches offered. The 
breadth of our sports coverage with 
football, tennis, and basketball, through 
to local sports such as ice hockey and 
handball is now firmly established. 
While sports betting remains the 
focus of the business, we provide 
a complete range of other gaming 
products to our customers including 
casino, games and poker. Casino and 
games contribute 21% of Group gross 
gaming revenue whilst poker makes up 
the remaining 8%. These products are 
not offered to our Australian customers 
due to regulatory constraints. 
The Group achieved an operating 
margin of 18.5% (excluding exceptional 
items, share option charge and 
amortisation of intangible assets) 
during the year which was above the 
prior year’s 17.1% due to savings in 
payment processing and staff costs. 
Outlook
The Group has had a solid start to the 
new financial year with NGR in the first 
two months 17% above the same period 
last year and in line with expectations.
With regulatory change well under way 
in Europe we are confident that the 
increased advertising opportunities, 
improved payment processing and stable 
business platform this provides will drive 
profitable growth in the medium-term.
Whilst the economic outlook remains 
challenging, our diversified business 
model across the different economic 
cycles of Europe, Australia and 
South America gives us confidence 
for the current financial year. 
leadingedge
