 02
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Overview
Chairman’s 
statement 
This has been a year of significant change 
and progress for the Group. In particular, 
in August 2011 the acquisition of the 
Australian focused Centrebet business 
was completed, making the Company 
the largest fixed odds internet and phone 
bookmaker by amounts wagered in the 
country. This was followed in November 
by the disposal of our Turkish language 
website. These corporate transactions, 
together with the passing of online gaming 
laws in two of our largest markets, Greece 
and Spain, have seen our revenue mix 
shift decisively towards licensed and taxed 
jurisdictions. The Group’s revenue derived 
from regulated and/or taxed countries has 
risen to a current run rate of over 80%.
I am also pleased to announce a strong 
set of financial results for the year with 
amounts wagered up 14% to £2,349m 
and EBITDA increasing 11% to £56.8m 
despite some significant challenges 
encountered during the year. 
Based on our experience of the 
regulated Australian market, an initial 
reduction in profitability resulting 
from the implementation of taxes is 
more than offset in the medium term. 
New opportunities resulting from the 
increased ability to advertise, improved 
trustworthiness and better payment 
processing efficiency, combined with an 
existing strong brand presence, provide 
an enhanced platform for medium‑term 
profit growth. As a result the Group is in 
a stronger position to capitalise on stable, 
well regulated and growing markets.
The long‑term prognosis for the industry 
remains positive as the size of the online 
fixed odds sports betting market increases 
each year due to more customers being 
able to access the product through 
increased broadband penetration and 
the growth in smartphones and tablets. 
Although this growth can be disguised 
by the short‑term impact of regulation 
or economic recession, it is still evident 
in certain countries or channels. The 
mobile channel is currently demonstrating 
significant growth in our largest market, 
Australia, with the percentage of revenue 
derived from mobile increasing from 
5% last year to 28% in July 2012.
In Australia the acquisition and integration 
of Centrebet was completed on schedule 
with higher synergy benefits realised than 
originally planned. Online sports betting 
remains a very attractive growth market 
as customers turn away from retail, tote 
products. The division now accounts for 
over half of Group revenue on a proforma 
basis and is currently the key driver and 
component of the Group’s profits.
In Europe, the disposal of the Turkish 
language website, the passing of online 
regulations in our two largest markets, 
Greece and Spain and the current economic 
difficulties have warranted the investment 
of significant management time. The 
business has undertaken a restructuring 
programme resulting in a reduction in 
fixed costs of £15m p.a., which leaves 
a cost base that is expected to produce 
a profit at budgeted revenue levels. 
Peter Dicks
Chairman 03
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
The Emerging Markets division has had 
an excellent year and continues to provide 
the Group with the benefits of operating 
across a broad geographic base. The 
medium‑term possibilities presented by 
the division are significant as customers 
increasingly take up our fixed odds sports 
betting offering in Africa and South America.
Our overall strategy of providing a first 
class sports betting product and offering 
customers an unprecedented number of 
betting opportunities at all times of the day, 
remains unchanged. Sports betting remains 
our core focus as it offers the greatest scope 
to differentiate our product from competitors 
and provides significant barriers to new 
entrants. Our long‑term trading strategy 
has been consistently executed, leveraging 
our proprietary best‑in‑class trading 
technology resulting in the delivery of an 
outstanding trading performance with best 
in class margin. To provide a comprehensive 
suite of products for our customers, we 
supplement the core sports offering with 
casino, games and poker products bought 
in from the leading suppliers in the industry. 
Finally, I am pleased to announce that 
the Board has proposed a final dividend 
of 1.1p (2011: 1.1p). This brings the total 
dividend for the year to 1.7p (2011: 1.7p).
“ The Group is now 
well positioned 
to capitalise  
on stable, 
well regulated 
growing markets.”
