 02 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Overview
Chairman’s statement
“Our long-term trading 
strategy has been 
consistently executed 
leveraging our proprietary 
best-in-class trading 
technology which  
has enabled us to  
deliver an outstanding 
trading performance”
Peter Dicks, Chairman
This has been a year of significant 
progress for the Group both in terms 
of financial performance and corporate 
developments. Agreement with the US 
Department of Justice in September 
2010 was followed in August 2011 by 
the acquisition of Centrebet in Australia 
and the passing of regulations in two of 
our largest markets, Greece and Spain. 
Sportingbet is now well positioned to 
maximise the growth opportunities 
available to it as the global online gaming 
market continues to develop. We already 
have market leadership in around 50% 
of the territories in which we operate.
I am pleased to announce a strong set of 
financial results for the year with EBITDA 
increasing 11% to £51.4m. The benefits 
of operating across a broad geographical 
base were demonstrated with strong 
growth in our Emerging Markets division, 
Australia and some of our European 
countries, offsetting the economic 
weakness in two of our largest markets, 
Greece and Spain. This limited the overall 
decrease in revenue to 1% although the 
comparative period did benefit from the 
Football World Cup which is estimated to 
have benefited last year’s NGR by £8.5m. 
The decrease in revenue was more than 
compensated for at the profit level by 
tight cost control. In addition to the 
cost synergies being realised following 
the Centrebet acquisition, the focus on 
adjusting the cost base to reflect the 
economic conditions and the increased 
cost of newly regulated markets will 
continue over the coming periods. 
Our overall strategy of providing a first 
class sports betting product offering 
customers an unprecedented number of 
betting opportunities at all times of the 
day, remains unchanged. Sports betting 
is our focus as it offers the greatest 
scope to differentiate our product from 
competitors and provides significant 
barriers to new entrants. Our long-term 
trading strategy has been consistently 
executed leveraging our proprietary 
best-in-class trading technology which 
has enabled us to deliver an outstanding 
trading performance. This success has 
been clearly demonstrated by an in:play 
margin of nearly 10% compared to 5% 
or less for our competitors. To provide 
a comprehensive suite of products for 
our customers, we supplement the 
core sports offering with casino, games 
and poker products bought in from 
the leading suppliers in the industry. 
As the online gaming industry matures, 
governments across the world are 
recognising the significant potential 
contribution from online gaming tax 
revenues as a means to replenish 
national budget deficits and the need 
to bring in regulation to protect the 
consumer and provide a stable trading 
environment. We welcome these 
moves and have been exploring ways 
of increasing the percentage of our 
revenue derived from regulated markets.  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 03
OVERVIEW
In line with this strategy we recently 
acquired Centrebet International 
Limited, a business which predominantly 
operates in the regulated Australian 
market. This acquisition has raised the 
percentage of the Group’s proforma 
revenue derived from regulated 
markets to over 32% for the 2010/11 
financial year. Following completion 
of the acquisition on 31 August 2011, 
the integration of Centrebet with our 
existing Australian sportsbook business 
is progressing well and the enlarged 
operation has a market leading position 
with over 30% share in what is a fast 
growing and dynamic online sports 
betting market. The acquisition will 
be earnings enhancing (excluding 
amortisation of intangible assets) in the 
first full year post acquisition (2012/13).
The percentage of revenue from 
regulated markets is also expected 
to increase significantly over the 
coming year as countries introduce 
online gaming legislation. Two of our 
largest markets, Spain and Greece 
which account for 27% of the Group’s 
revenue, have passed laws regulating 
their markets from the beginning of 
January 2012. In addition, several of 
the other smaller markets in which 
we operate are moving quickly in the 
same direction. The Group is currently 
paying tax in Spain and intends to pay 
tax in Greece when the bill is finally 
passed into law. The Group expects to 
apply for a licence in both countries.
Based on our experience in the regulated 
Australian market, while in the short 
term regulation and the implementation 
of the associated tax regimes are 
expected to reduce profitability, there 
is an opportunity to grow profits in the 
medium term despite the greater cost 
base. The opportunities represented 
by the increased ability to advertise, 
improved trustworthiness from being 
licensed and better payment processing 
efficiency, combined with an existing 
strong brand presence, provide a 
platform for medium term profit growth. 
In the Australian case it took three years 
to recover profitability with the high 
growth rates experienced during this 
period continuing up to the present time. 
The rollout of the Group’s mobile phone 
offering has been very encouraging 
since its launch last year. Actives now 
account for 15% of total customers 
in our largest markets. The rollout has 
gathered momentum in the last six 
months with a total of 11 countries 
now covered. The take up of the mobile 
product is expected to continue to grow 
significantly over the next three years 
as smart phone and tablet penetration, 
a key driver of uptake, is expected to 
exceed 50% in the markets we serve. 
Finally, I am pleased to announce that 
the Board has proposed a final dividend 
of 1.1p (2010: 1.1p). This brings the total 
dividend for the year to 1.7p (2010: 1.6p), 
an increase of 6% year on year, and 
reflects the considerable progress the 
Group has made recently. If approved 
by shareholders the dividend will be 
payable on 12 January 2012 to ordinary 
shareholders registered as of the close 
of business on 16 December 2011.
closecontrol
